{"id": "1662195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1662195", "title": "Alaverdi Monastery", "text": "Alaverdi Monastery\n\nAlaverdi Monastery () is a Georgian Eastern Orthodox monastery located from Akhmeta, in the Kakheti region of Eastern Georgia. While parts of the monastery date back to 6th century, the present day cathedral was built in the 11th century by Kvirike III of Kakheti, replacing an older church of St. George.\n\nThe monastery was founded by the Assyrian monk Joseph (Yoseb, Amba) Alaverdeli, who came from Antioch and settled in Alaverdi, then a small village and former pagan religious center dedicated to the Moon. At a height of over , Alaverdi Cathedral was the tallest religious building in Georgia, until the construction of the Holy Trinity Cathedral of Tbilisi, which was consecrated in 2004. However its overall size is smaller than the cathedral of Svetitskhoveli in Mtskheta. The monastery is the focus of the annual religious celebration Alaverdoba. Situated in the heart of the world's oldest wine region, the monks also make their own wine, known as Alaverdi Monastery Cellar.\n\n"}
{"id": "29002567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29002567", "title": "Alexander Kravchenko (linguist)", "text": "Alexander Kravchenko (linguist)\n\nAlexander Kravchenko (born 1955) is a Russian Cognitive Linguist and Professor at Baikal National University of Economics and Law (BNUEL), where he heads the Department of Foreign Languages. He is one of the founding researchers of the Distributed Language Group.\n\nAlexander Kravchenko received his Ph.D. in English Linguistics from St-Petersburg State University in 1987 and his Ph.D. Habilitat from the Institute of Linguistics of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 1995 with the thesis \"Principles of a Theory of Indexicality\".\n\nPrior to taking his position at BNUEL in 2000, he spent 22 years teaching TEFL and Linguistics courses at a linguistics university, where he also headed the Cognitive Linguistics Lab from 1995 to 2000.\nHis research interests include biology of cognition, biocognitive philosophy of language, (bio)semiotics, cognitive grammar, applied cognitive linguistics (TEFL).\n\nKravchenko published several monographs and edited volumes and over 80 articles in Russian and English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3761939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3761939", "title": "Augusto de Campos", "text": "Augusto de Campos\n\nAugusto de Campos (born 14 February 1931, São Paulo) is a Brazilian writer who (with his brother Haroldo de Campos) was a founder of the Concrete poetry movement in Brazil. He is also a translator, music critic and visual artist.\n\nIn 1952, he founded the literary magazine \"Noigandres\" with his brother. Then in 1956 he and his associates declared the beginning of a movement. Since then he has had a number of collections and honors.\nFrom the 1950s to 1970s his main works were directed to visual poetry but from 1980 on, intensified his experiments with the new media, presenting his poems on electric billboard, videotext, neon, hologram and laser, computer graphics, and multimedia events, involving sound and music, as the plurivocal reading of CIDADECITYCITÉ (with Cid Campos), 1987/1991.\nFour of his holographic poems (in cooperation with the holographer Moysés Baumstein ) were included in the exhibitions TRILUZ (1986) and IDEHOLOGIA (1987). A videoclippoem, PULSAR, with music by Caetano Veloso, was produced in 1984 in an Intergraph high resolution computer station. BOMB POEM and SOS, with music by his son, Cid Campos, were animated in a Silicon Graphic Computer Station of the University of São Paulo, 1992-3. His cooperation with Cid, begun in 1987 resulted in POESIA É RISCO (Poetry is Risk), a CD launched by PolyGram in 1995 and developed in a multimedia performance with the same title, a \"verbivocovisual\" show of poetry/music/image, which gained video-editing by Walter Silveira, and has been presented in several cities in Brazil and abroad. An installation assembling his digital poetic animations. In 2017 he was honoured by the (award of the Hungarian PEN Club).\n\n\n----. \"ABC of AdeC: Reading Augusto de Campos.\" Review: Latin American Literature and Arts 73, Special issue: Brazilian Writing and Arts (2006), 236-44.\n----. \"Brazil, Lyric, and the Americas.\" Gainesville: University Press of Florida, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "18467936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18467936", "title": "Bias frame", "text": "Bias frame\n\nIn digital photography, a bias frame is an image obtained from an opto-electronic image sensor, with no actual exposure time. The image so obtained only contains unwanted signal due to the electronics that elaborate the sensor data, and not unwanted signal from charge accumulation (e.g. from dark current) within the sensor itself.\n\nA bias frame is complementary to a dark frame, which has a charge integration time but in darkness.\nSince a dark frame contains unwanted signal including a fixed-pattern noise component, some of which corresponds to the bias frame, and some of which is due to dark current and is proportional to the exposure time, it is possible to obtain an image representing only the dark-current component by subtracting a bias frame from a dark frame. The resulting image allows obtaining an \"artificial\" dark frame when multiplied by a factor depending on exposure time and then added back to the bias frame. Although this technique is less accurate than shooting a dark frame for each specific exposure duration, it has the advantage of drastically reducing the time needed to obtain dark-frame data for dark frame subtraction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1269277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1269277", "title": "Bulawa", "text": "Bulawa\n\nThe bulava or buława (Polish spelling: \"buława\"; Ukraine spelling: \"булава\" [\"bula'va\"]) is a ceremonial mace or baton.\n\nHistorically the \"buława\" was an attribute of a hetman, an officer of the highest military rank (after the monarch) in the 15th- to 18th-century Kingdom of Poland and the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nHetmans typically added an image of a \"buława\" to their coats of arms.\n\nToday the \"buława\" appears in the rank insignia of a Marshal of Poland.\n\nIn the Ukrainian language, a \"булава\" (bulava) is a mace or club, in both the military and ceremonial senses. The \"bulava\" was part of the Ukrainian Cossack \"kleinody\" (\"jewels\") that were awarded by Hetman Bohdan Khmelnytsky to the Zaporizhian Host.\n\nHistorically the \"bulava\" was an attribute of a hetman, an officer of the highest military rank, and of the Otaman of Ukraine or the military head of a Cossack state (Cossack Hetmanate).\n\nUnder the Ukrainian People's Republic, the General Staff of the Ukrainian Army was called the \"General Bulava\". \n\nThe \"bulava\" is now an official emblem of the President of Ukraine, and is housed in Ukraine's Vernadsky National Library.\n\n"}
{"id": "8134344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8134344", "title": "Cab-rank rule", "text": "Cab-rank rule\n\nIn English law (and other countries which adopt the rule), the cab-rank rule is the obligation of a barrister to accept any work in a field in which they profess themselves competent to practise, at a court at which they normally appear, and at their usual rates. The rule derives its name from the tradition by which a Hackney carriage driver at the head of a queue of taxicabs is supposed to take the first passenger requesting a ride.\n\nThe cab rank rule is set out at rC29 of the Bar Standards Board Handbook. It states that if you receive instructions from a professional client and the instructions are appropriate taking into account your experience, seniority and/or field of practice, you must (subject to the\nexceptions in rC30) accept those instructions irrespective of:\n\nWithout the cab-rank rule, an unpopular person might not get legal representation; barristers who acted for them might be criticised for doing so.\n\nAddressing the continued necessity for the rule in 2010, the Law Society of England and Wales, which represents solicitors, together with The Bar Council said:\n"}
{"id": "1414389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1414389", "title": "Callback (comedy)", "text": "Callback (comedy)\n\nA callback, in terms of comedy, is a joke that refers to one previously told in the set. It is also known as an internal allusion, a literary device that helps give structure to the piece of writing. Callbacks are usually saved for later, towards the end of a set, the result is usually a much bigger laugh the second time as the audience is much more surprised the longer it's held back. The main principle behind the callback is to make the audience feel a sense of familiarity with the subject material, as well as with the comedian. It helps to create audience rapport. When the second joke is told, it induces a feeling similar to that of being told a personal or in-joke.\n\nIn television, the term callback has come to mean a joke or line that refers to a previous episode (or sometimes, in rare cases, movies). Particularly in earlier sitcoms—though even until the early 1990s—callbacks were rare and often frowned upon by networks, because they threaten to alienate a viewer who is new to the series, or who has missed episodes, particularly if the callback is tied to previous episodes (this is especially a threat to a show's syndication value, as shows in which the episodes are self-contained, and thus can be rerun out of order, can fetch a higher sale price than shows that must be run in sequence). \n\n\"Seinfeld\", a show built around stand-up comedy, was one of the first sitcoms to regularly use callbacks in its scripts, although on a level that would often be missed or disregarded by viewers; its use of the strategy commonly kept the callbacks confined to events in the same episodes, having the effect of bringing the episode full-circle or creating an ironic twist ending. A more recent series, \"30 Rock\", employs callbacks to reference fictitious movies and television programs created within the show. \"Arrested Development\" became well known by fans for its regular use of callbacks throughout all of its episodes. \n\nThe line between a callback and simple continuity can be ambiguous. Repeatedly calling back to the same joke is a running gag.\n\n"}
{"id": "45139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45139", "title": "Chennai", "text": "Chennai\n\nChennai (; also known by its former name Madras or ) is the capital of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. Located on the Coromandel Coast off the Bay of Bengal, it is the biggest cultural, economic and educational centre of south India. According to the 2011 Indian census, it is the sixth most populous city and fourth-most populous urban agglomeration in India. The city together with the adjoining regions constitute the Chennai Metropolitan Area, which is the 36th-largest urban area by population in the world. Chennai is among the most visited Indian cities by foreign tourists. It was ranked the 43rd most visited city in the world for the year 2015. The Quality of Living Survey rated Chennai as the safest city in India. Chennai attracts 45 percent of health tourists visiting India, and 30 to 40 percent of domestic health tourists. As such, it is termed \"India's health capital\". As a growing metropolitan city in a developing country, Chennai confronts substantial pollution and other logistical and socio-economic problems.\n\nChennai had the third-largest expatriate population in India at 35,000 in 2009, 82,790 in 2011 and estimated at over 100,000 by 2016. Tourism guide publisher Lonely Planet named Chennai as one of the top ten cities in the world to visit in 2015. Chennai is ranked as a beta-level city in the Global Cities Index, and was ranked the best city in India by \"India Today\" in the 2014 annual Indian city survey. In 2015 Chennai was named the \"hottest\" city (worth visiting, and worth living in for long term) by the BBC, citing the mixture of both modern and traditional values. National Geographic mentioned Chennai as the only South Asian city to feature in its 2015 \"Top 10 food cities\" list. Chennai was also named the ninth-best cosmopolitan city in the world by Lonely Planet. In October 2017, Chennai was added to the UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) list for its rich musical tradition.\n\nThe Chennai Metropolitan Area is one of the largest municipal economies of India. Chennai is nicknamed \"The Detroit of India\", with more than one-third of India's automobile industry being based in the city. Home to the Tamil film industry, Chennai is also known as a major film production centre. In January 2015, it was ranked third in terms of per capita GDP. Chennai has been selected as one of the 100 Indian cities to be developed as a smart city under Smart Cities Mission.\n\nThe nativity of the name \"Chennai\", being of Telugu origin, is clearly proved by historians. It was derived from the name of a Telugu ruler Damarla Chennappa Nayakudu, father of Damarla Venkatapathy Nayak, a Nayak ruler who served as a general under Venkata III of the Vijayanagar Empire from whom the British acquired the town in 1639. The first official use of the name \"Chennai\" is said to be in a sale deed, dated 8 August 1639, to Francis Day of the East India Company, even before the Chennakesava Perumal Temple was built in 1646 while some scholar argue for the contrary.\n\nIn 1996, the Government of Tamil Nadu officially changed the name from \"Madras\" to \"Chennai\". At that time many Indian cities underwent a change of name. However, the name \"Madras\" continues in occasional use for the city, as well as for places named after the city such as University of Madras, IIT Madras, Madras Institute of Technology, Madras Medical College, Madras Veterinary College, Madras Christian College.\n\nThe name \"Madras\" originated even before the British presence was established in India. There have been clear evidences that Madras is not of alien origin. A Vijayanagar-era inscription dated to the year 1367 that mentions the port of Mādarasanpattanam, along with other small ports on the east coast was discovered in 2015 and it was theorised that the aforementioned port is the fishing port of Royapuram. There are also suggestions that it may have originated from a Portuguese phrase \"mãe de Deus\", which means \"mother of God\", due to Portuguese influence on the port city, specifically referring to a Church of St. Mary. According to some sources, Madras was derived from \"Madraspattinam\", a fishing-village north of Fort St George. However, it is uncertain whether the name was in use before the arrival of Europeans. The British military mapmakers believed Madras was originally \"Mundir-raj\" or \"Mundiraj\".\n\nStone age implements have been found near Pallavaram in Chennai. According to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), Pallavaram was a megalithic cultural establishment, and pre-historic communities resided in the settlement.\n\nThe region around Chennai has served as an important administrative, military, and economic centre for many centuries. During the 1st century CE, a poet and weaver named Thiruvalluvar lived in the town of Mylapore (a neighbourhood of present Chennai). From the 1st–12th century the region of present Tamil Nadu and parts of South India was ruled by the Cholas.\n\nThe Pallavas of Kanchi built the areas of Mahabalipuram and Pallavaram during the reign of Mahendravarman I. They also defeated several kingdoms including the Cheras, Cholas and Pandyas who ruled over the area before their arrival. Sculpted caves and paintings have been identified from that period. Ancient coins dating to around 500 BC have also been unearthed from the city and its surrounding areas. A portion of these findings belonged to the Vijayanagara Empire, which ruled the region during the medieval period.\n\nThe Portuguese first arrived in 1522 and built a port called \"São Tomé\" after the Christian apostle, St. Thomas, who is believed to have preached in the area between 52 and 70 CE. In 1612, the Dutch established themselves near Pulicat, north of Chennai.\n\nOn 20 August 1639 Francis Day of the East India Company along with the Nayak of Kalahasti Damarla Chennappa Nayakudu, travelled to the Chandragiri palace for an audience with the Vijayanager Emperor Peda Venkata Raya. Day was seeking to obtain a grant for land on the Coromandel coast on which the Company could build a factory and warehouse for their trading activities and was successful in obtaining the lease of a strip of land about six miles long and one mile inland in return for a yearly sum of five hundred lakh pagodas. The region was then primarily a fishing village known as \"Madraspatnam\". A year later, the Company built Fort St. George, the first major English settlement in India, which became the nucleus of the growing colonial city and urban Chennai, grew around this Fort. Post independence the fort housed the Tamil Nadu Assembly until the new Secretariat building was opened in 2010, but shortly afterwards it was again moved back to Fort St. George, due to a change in the Government.\n\nIn 1746, Fort St. George and Madras were captured by the French under General La Bourdonnais, the Governor of Mauritius, who plundered the town and its outlying villages. The British regained control in 1749 through the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle and strengthened the town's fortress wall to withstand further attacks from the French and Hyder Ali, the Sultan of Mysore. They resisted a French siege attempt in 1759 under the leadership of Eyre Coote. In 1769 the city was threatened by Mysore and the British were defeated by Hyder Ali, after which the Treaty of Madras ended the war. By the 18th century, the British had conquered most of the region around Tamil Nadu and the northern modern–day states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, establishing the Madras Presidency with Madras as the capital.\nGradually, the city grew into a major naval base and became the central administrative centre for the British in South India. With the advent of railways in India in the 19th century, the thriving urban centre was connected to other important cities such as Bombay and Calcutta, promoting increased communication and trade with the hinterland. Sir Arthur Lawley was Governor of Madras from 1906 to 1911 and promoted modern agriculture, industry, railways, education, the arts and more democratic governance. The Governor lived in Government House, Fort St George, and had a country home at Guindy, with access to a golf course, hockey pitches, riding stables and the Guindy Horse Racing Track. In the First World War as Red Cross Commissioner in Mesopotamia, he looked after the welfare of Indian soldiers. Madras was the only Indian city to be attacked by the Central Powers during World War I, when an oil depot was shelled by the German light cruiser on 22 September 1914, as it raided shipping lanes in the Indian Ocean, causing disruption to shipping.\n\nAfter India gained its independence in 1947, the city became the capital of Madras State, which was renamed as Tamil Nadu in 1969. The violent agitations of 1965 against the compulsory imposition of Hindi and in support of English in India in the state marked a major shift in the political dynamics of the city and eventually it had a big impact on the whole state. Because of Madras and its people, English now exists in India, otherwise Hindi might have been made the sole official language in India. On 17 July 1996, the city known as Madras was officially renamed Chennai, in line with what was then a nationwide trend to using less Anglicised names. On 26 December 2004, an Indian Ocean tsunami lashed the shores of Chennai, killing 206 people in Chennai and permanently altering the coastline. The 2015 Chennai Floods submerged major portions of the city, killing 269 people and resulting in damages of .\n\nChennai is located on the south–eastern coast of India in the north–eastern part of Tamil Nadu on a flat coastal plain known as the Eastern Coastal Plains. Its average elevation is around , and its highest point is . Chennai is south of Delhi, southeast of Mumbai, and east of Bangalore by road. Two major rivers flow through Chennai, the Cooum River (or \"Koovam\") through the centre and the Adyar River to the south. A third river, the Kortalaiyar, travels through the northern fringes of the city before draining into the Bay of Bengal, at Ennore. The estuary of this river is heavily polluted with effluents released by the industries in the region. Adyar and Cooum rivers are heavily polluted with effluents and waste from domestic and commercial sources, the Coumm being so heavily polluted it is regarded as the city's eyesore. A protected estuary on the Adyar forms a natural habitat for several species of birds and animals. The Buckingham Canal, inland, runs parallel to the coast, linking the two rivers. The Otteri Nullah, an east–west stream, runs through north Chennai and meets the Buckingham Canal at Basin Bridge. Several lakes of varying size are located on the western fringes of the city. Some areas of the city have the problem of excess iron content in groundwater.\nChennai's soil is mostly clay, shale and sandstone. Clay underlies most of the city, chiefly Manali, Kolathur, Maduravoyal, K. K. Nagar, Tambaram, Mudichur, Pallavaram Semmencherry, Alapakkam, Vyasarpadi and Anna Nagar. Sandy areas are found along the river banks and coasts, and include areas such as Tiruvottiyur, George Town, Madhavaram, New Washermanpet, Chepauk, Mylapore, Porur, Adyar, Besant Nagar and Uthandi. In these areas, rainwater runoff percolates quickly through the soil. Areas having hard rock surface include Guindy, Nanganallur, Pallikaranai, Alandur, Jaladampet, Velachery, Adambakkam and a part of Saidapet and Perungudi. The ground water table in Chennai is at 4-5m below ground in most of the areas, which was considerably improved and maintained through the mandatory rain water harvesting system. Of the 24.87 km coastline of the city, 3.08 km experiences erosion, with sand accretion along the shoreline can be noticed at the Marina beach and the area between the Ennore Port and Kosasthalaiyar river.\n\nChennai is classified as being in Seismic Zone III, indicating a moderate risk of damage from earthquakes. Owing to the geotectonic zone the city falls in, the city is considered a potential geothermal energy site. The crust has granite rocks indicating volcanic activities in the past. It is expected that temperatures of around 200 to 300 C° will be available if the ground were drilled 4 to 5 km deep. The region has the oldest rocks in the country dating back to nearly a billion years.\n\nThe southern stretch of Chennai's coast from Tiruvanmiyur to Neelangarai are favoured by the endangered Olive Ridley sea turtles to lay eggs every winter. A large number of cattle egrets, pond herons and other waterbirds can be seen in the rivers of Cooum and Adyar. About 75,000 birds migrate to Chennai every year. Marshy wetlands such as Pallikaranai also play host to a number of migratory birds during the monsoon and winter. Over 300 species of birds have been recorded in the city and its neighbourhood by members of Madras Naturalists' Society since its inception in 1978.\n\nGuindy National Park is a protected area within the city limits. Wildlife conservation and research activities take place at\nArignar Anna Zoological Park including Olive ridley sea turtle conservation. Madras Crocodile Bank Trust is a herpetology research station, located south of Chennai. It is India's leading institution for herpeto faunal conservation and the first crocodile breeding centre in Asia. The city's tree cover is estimated to be around 64.06 sq km. The most dominant tree species is the copper pod, followed by Indian beech and Neem. A total of 121 species of trees belonging to 94 genera and 42 families are found in the city.\n\nChennai has three rivers and many lakes spread across the city. Urbanization has led to shrinkage of water bodies and wetlands. The quantity of wetlands in the city has decreased from 650 to only 27 currently. The Chennai River Restoration trust set up by the government is working on the restoration of Adyar river. Environmentalist Foundation of India is a volunteering group working towards wildlife conservation and habitat restoration.\n\nChennai has a tropical wet and dry climate (Köppen: Aw). The city lies on the thermal equator and is also on the coast, which prevents extreme variation in seasonal temperature. The hottest part of the year is late May to early June, known regionally as \"Agni Nakshatram\" (\"fire star\") or as \"Kathiri Veyyil\", with maximum temperatures around . The coolest part of the year is January, with minimum temperatures around . The lowest recorded temperature was on 11 December 1895 and 29 January 1905. The highest recorded temperature was on 31 May 2003. The average annual rainfall is about .\n\nThe city gets most of its seasonal rainfall from the north–east monsoon winds, from mid–October to mid–December. Cyclones in the Bay of Bengal sometimes hit the city. The highest annual rainfall recorded is in 2005. Prevailing winds in Chennai are usually southwesterly between April and October and north-easterly during the rest of the year. Historically, Chennai has relied on the annual rains of the monsoon season to replenish water reservoirs, as no major rivers flow through the area. Chennai has a water table at 2 metres for 60 percent of the year.\nThe city of Chennai is located on the east coast of India, which is also known as the Coromandel Coast.\nChennai is largely dependent on NE monsoon, since 65% of rains are received in this season. Cyclones and depressions are common features during the season. Cyclones in particular are really unpredictable. They can even move towards Orissa, west Bengal, Bangladesh, and also Myanmar. The season between October and December is referred as the NE monsoon period. Floods are common during this period. In 2015 Chennai received record breaking rains since 1918, which caused massive floods.\n\nThe entire east coast is vulnerable to cyclones during the monsoon period. For example, in 2007 a major cyclone named \"Cyclone Sidr\" skipped Chennai and headed towards Bangladesh. The result was a failure of NE monsoon in Chennai, that particular year. Even in the past, there has been many occasions where Cyclones had a great influence in the monsoon.\n\nAs of 2018, the city had a green cover of 14.9 percent, against the World Health Organization recommendation of 9 square meters of green cover per capita in cities. The city had a built-up area of 71 percent. Waterbodies cover an estimated 6 percent of the total area, and at least 8 percent of the area has classified as open space. As of 2017, the total volume of water harvested was 339 mcft and groundwater recharge was 170 mcft.\n\nChennai city is governed by the Greater Chennai Corporation (formerly \"Corporation of Madras\"), which was established in 1688. It is the oldest surviving municipal corporation in India and the second oldest surviving corporation in the world. In 2011, the jurisdiction of the Chennai Corporation was expanded from to an area of , dividing into three regions—North, South and Central, which covers 200 wards. The corporation is headed by a mayor, an office presently occupied by Saidai Sa. Duraisamy. The Mayor and councillors of the city are elected through a popular vote by the residents. While the city limit was expanded in 2011, the revised population is yet to be officially announced.\n\nThe Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) is the nodal agency responsible for planning and development of Chennai Metropolitan Area, which is spread over an area of , covering the Chennai district and parts of Tiruvallur and Kanchipuram districts. The larger suburbs are governed by town municipalities and the smaller ones are governed by town councils called panchayats. Under the gamut of the CMDA are 5 parliamentary and 28 assembly constituencies. The CMDA has drafted an additional Master Plan that aims to develop satellite townships around the city. The city's contiguous satellite towns include Mahabalipuram in the south, Chengalpattu and Maraimalai Nagar in the southwest, and Sriperumpudur, Arakkonam, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur to the west.\n\nChennai, as the capital of the state of Tamil Nadu, houses the state executive and legislative headquarters primarily in the Secretariat Buildings in the Fort St George campus. The Madras High Court, is the highest judicial authority in the state, whose jurisdiction extends across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Chennai has three parliamentary constituencies—Chennai North, Chennai Central and Chennai South—and elects 24 Members of the Legislative Assembly (MLAs) to the state legislature.\n\nThe Greater Chennai Police is the main law enforcement agency in the city, with a jurisdiction of over catering to over 8.5 million people. It consists of 121 police stations and is headed by a commissioner of police. The Greater Chennai Police is a division of the Tamil Nadu Police, and the administrative control lies with the Tamil Nadu Home Ministry. Chennai City Traffic Police (CCTP) is responsible for the traffic management in the city. The metropolitan suburbs are policed by the Chennai Metropolitan Police, headed by the Chennai Police Commissionerate, and the outer district areas of the CMDA are policed by the Kanchipuram and Thiruvallur police departments.\n\nIn 2009, Madras Central Prison, one of the oldest prisons in India, built over of land, was demolished; the prisoners were moved to Puzhal Central Prison.\n\nSince the 19th century, when Western scholars proposed that Dravidian languages, which dominated the southern region of India, formed a different linguistic group to that of the Indo-Aryan languages that are predominant in the north of the subcontinent, the aspects of Tamil nationalism gained prominence. This resulted in the Anti-Hindi agitations in the city and across the state. However, the post-Independence re-organisation of Indian states according to linguistic and ethnic basis has moderated Tamil nationalism, especially the demand for separation from the Indian Union. The Anti-Hindi agitations in mid-1960s made the DMK more popular and more powerful political force in the state. The agitations of the 1960s played a crucial role in the defeat of the Tamil Nadu Congress party in the 1967 elections and the continuing dominance of Dravidian parties in Tamil Nadu politics.\nBeing the capital of the Madras Province that covered a vast area of the Deccan region, Chennai remained the centre of politics in the southern region of India during the British colonial era. After Independence, it remained the centre of political activities of the state of Tamil Nadu. Chennai is the birthplace of the idea of the Indian National Congress, commonly known as the Congress Party. Founded by Indian and British members of the Theosophical Society movement, most notably A.O. Hume, the idea was originally conceived in a private meeting of 17 men after a Theosophical Convention held in the city in December 1884. During the first 50 years of the Indian National Congress, the city played host to its conferences seven times in 1887, 1894, 1898, 1903, 1908, 1914 and 1927, becoming one of the strong bases for the Indian independence movement. After independence, the city hosted the Congress in 1955 in its suburb of Avadi.\n\nChennai is also the birthplace of several regional political movements since the British era. South Indian Welfare Association, one of the earliest regional parties, was founded in 1916, which later came to be known as the Justice Party, which was the main opposition party to the Indian National Congress in the state. In 1944, the party was renamed Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) by E. V. Ramasami (popularly known as 'Periyar'). The party was a non-political party that demanded the establishment of an independent state called Dravida Nadu. However, due to the differences between its two leaders Periyar and C. N. Annadurai, the party was split. Annadurai left the party to form the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK). The DMK decided to enter into politics in 1956.\n\nThe city's water supply and sewage treatment are managed by the Chennai MetroWater Supply and Sewage Board. Water is drawn from Red Hills Lake and Chembarambakkam Lake, the primary water reservoirs of the city, and treated at water treatment plants located at Kilpauk, Puzhal, Chembarambakkam and supplied to the city through 27 water distribution stations. The city receives 530 million liters per day (mld) of water from Krishna River through Telugu Ganga project, 180 mld of water from the Veeranam lake project and 100 mld of water from the Minjur desalination plant, the country's largest sea water desalination plant. However, Chennai is predicted to face a huge deficit of 713 mld in 2026 as the demand is projected at 2,248 mld and supply estimated at only 1,535 mld. The city's sewer system was designed in 1910, with some modifications in 1958. There are 714 public toilets in the city managed by the city corporation, and 2,000 more have been planned by the corporation. The corporation also owns 52 community halls across the city.\n\nThe Corporation of Chennai provides civic services to the city. Garbage collection in some of the wards is contracted to Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited, a private company, while the Corporation looks after the removal and processing of solid waste in the others, with a superintendent engineer managing the channels. , 8 transfer stations exist within the city for treating the waste. Garbage is dumped in two dump-yards in the city—One in Kodungaiyur and another in Pallikaranai, with a major portion of the latter covering the Pallikaranai marshland. In market areas, the conservancy work is done during the night. Electricity is distributed by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board. Fire services are handled by the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services. The city, along with the suburbs, has 33 operating fire stations.\n\nThe Chennai City Region has 568 post offices, of which nearly 460 operate from rented premises.\n\nWith the history of many neighbourhoods of the city such as Mylapore, Triplicane, and Tiruvanmiyur antedating that of the city, the architecture of Chennai ranges in a wide chronology. The oldest buildings in the city dates from the 7th and 8th centuries CE, which include the Kapaleeshwarar Temple in Mylapore and the Parthasarathy Temple in Triplicane, built in the Dravidian architecture. This architecture includes various styles, such as those of the Pallavas, the Cholas, and the Vijayanagara empires. The associated \"Agraharam\" architecture, which consists of traditional row houses surrounding a temple, can still be seen in these areas. The heritage temples at Mamallapuram at the outskirts of the city are some of the examples of the Pallava architecture. Chennai ranks second to Kolkata of Indian heritage buildings.\n\nWith the advent of the Mugals and the British, the city saw a rise in a blend of Hindu, Islamic and Gothic revival styles, resulting in the distinct Indo-Saracenic style. The architecture for several early institutions such as banking and commerce, railways, press and education, chiefly through the colonial rule, followed the earlier directions of the Neo-Classical and the Indo-Saracenic. The Chepauk Palace in the city, designed by Paul Benfield, is said to be the first Indo-Saracenic building in India. Since then, many of the colonial-era buildings in the city were designed in this style of architecture, which is most apparent around the Fort St. George built in 1640. Most of these were designed by English architects Robert Fellowes Chisholm and Henry Irwin. The best examples of this style include the Madras High Court (built in 1892), Southern Railway headquarters, Ripon Building, Government Museum, Senate House of the University of Madras, Amir Mahal, Bharat Insurance Building, Victoria Public Hall and the College of Engineering. The Triumph of Labour, also known as the Labour statue, at the Marina Beach is an important landmark of Chennai.\n\nThe construction of the National Art Gallery in Madras was completed in 1909. The new building, with a stunning façade, was built of pink sandstone brought from Sathyavedu, and formed part of the Madras Museum campus. It was opened, on 23 January 1909, by the Governor of Fort St. George, Sir Arthur Lawley, and called the Victoria Memorial Hall after the Queen-Empress Victoria. The residential architecture in the city was based on the bungalow or the continuous row house prototypes. Gothic revival style buildings include the Chennai Central and Chennai Egmore railway stations. The Santhome Church, which was originally built by the Portuguese in 1523 and is believed to house the remains of the apostle St. Thomas, was rebuilt in 1893 in neo-Gothic style.\n\nBy the early 20th century, the art deco too made its entry upon the city's urban landscape. From the 1930s onwards, many buildings in George Town were built in this style, including the United India building (presently housing LIC) and the Burma Shell building (presently the Chennai House), both built in the 1930s, and the Dare House, built in 1940. Other examples include the Bombay Mutual building (presently housing LIC) and the South Indian Chamber of Commerce building.\nAfter Independence, the city witnessed a rise in the Modernism style of architecture. The completion of the LIC Building in 1959, the tallest building in the country at that time, marked the transition from lime-and-brick construction to concrete columns in the region. The presence of the weather radar at the Chennai Port, however, prohibited the construction of buildings taller than 60 m around a radius of 10 km for several decades that followed. In addition, the floor-area ratio (FAR) in the central business district is also 1.5, much less than that of smaller cities of the country. This resulted in the city expanding horizontally, unlike other metropolitan cities where vertical growth is prominent. On the contrary, the peripheral regions, especially on the southern and south-western sides, are experiencing vertical growth with the construction of buildings up to 60 floors.\n\nA resident of Chennai is called a \"Chennaite\". According to 2011 census, the city had a population of 4,646,732, within the area administered by the Municipal Corporation; that had 11 lakh households, with 51% of them living in rented houses. The city's limits were expanded later in 2011 and its population reached 7,088,000 with Chennai Municipal Corporation being renamed as Greater Chennai Corporation.\n\nTamils form the majority of Chennai's population. English is spoken largely by white-collar workers, often mixed into Tamil. In 2001, out of the 2,937,000 migrants (33.8% of its population) in the city, 61.5% were from other parts of the state, 33.8% were from rest of India and 3.7% were from outside the country. As per the 2001 census, the number of speakers mother tongue wise are as follows, Tamil is spoken by 3,424,107 (78.8%), followed by Telugu by 419,209 (9.7%), Urdu by 180,245 (4.1%), Malayalam by 113,828 (2.6%), Hindi by 104,084 (2.4%), and Kannada by 22,250 (0.5%). Korean, Japanese, French, Mandarin Chinese, Russian, German and Spanish are some of the languages spoken by the 2,50,000 foreign expatriates residing in the city.\n\nChennai, along with Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata, is one of the few Indian cities that are home to a diverse population of ethno-religious communities. Minorities include Telugus, Marwaris, Gujaratis, Parsis, Sindhis, Odias, Goans, Kannadigas, Anglo-Indians, Bengalis, Punjabi, and Malayalees. As per the religious census of 2011, Chennai's population was 80.7% Hindu, 9.5% Muslim, 7.7% Christian, 1.1% Jain, 0.1% Sikh, 0.1% Buddhist, <0.1% following other religions and 0.8% following no religion or did not indicate any religious preference.\n\nIn a 2013 survey titled 'Emerging trends in real estate in Asia Pacific 2014', Chennai emerged in the top 25 real estate destinations list in the Asia Pacific region. The city ranked 22nd in the list. There are about 1,240 slums in Chennai home to about 900,000 people.\n\nPer 2011 census, there are 1.1 million households in the city and the residential housing stock available is 1,150,000 – a surplus of about 50,000 houses. About 43,700 of them are kept vacant. In the suburbs of Chennai located in Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts, the figures of vacant houses 56,000 and 71,000, respectively. Of the existing housing stock in the city, about 200,000 houses are not in good condition, necessitating either to rebuild or build new units. About 26,000 households live in houses without any room and another 427,000 families (with an average size of five members) live in small dwelling units with only one room. An earlier estimate shows that there is a need to generate about 420,000 units for low-income groups by 2016.\n\n, an estimated population of 11,116 (0.16 percent) were homeless. Per Supreme Court guidelines, the city needs 65 shelters for the homeless. However, it has only 15, of which 8 are functioning and two are under renovation.\n\nAs of 2017, there are more than 2.2 million households, with 40 percent of the residents without owning a house.\n\nChennai is home to many museums, galleries, and other institutions, many of which are free of admission charges and are major tourist attractions as well as playing a research role. The city also has one of the oldest Museum and Art Gallery in the countryGovernment Museum, Chennai and The National Art Gallery (Chennai), established in the early 18th century.\nThe city also hosts two art festivals annually. The \"Fort Museum\" inside the premises of Fort St. George is an important museum having a noteworthy collection of objects of the British era in its collection. The museum is managed by the Archaeological Survey of India and has in its possession, the first Flag of India hoisted at Fort St George after the declaration of India's Independence on 15 August 1947.\n\nChennai is a major centre for music, art and culture in India. The city is known for its classical dance shows. In 1930, for the first time in India, Madras University introduced a course of music, as part of the Bachelor of Arts curriculum. The \"Madras Music Season\", initiated by Madras Music Academy in 1927, is celebrated every year during the month of December. It features performances of traditional Carnatic music by many artists in and around the city.\n\nAn arts festival called the Chennai Sangamam, which showcases not only various arts of Tamil Nadu but also from the neighbouring states, like kalari (from Kerala), which is a major attraction, is held in January every year. The Speciality of Chennai Sangamam is that the various programmes are held near or at the various famous landmarks in the city so that everyone in the city has access to the programmes and there is no fee charged for entry for any of the programmes. \"Pookolam\", a form of art that uses coloured flour to create patterns and designs, comes from Kerala, but can be seen in abundance at the time of Onam.\n\nThe city has a diverse theatre scene and is one of the important centres for Bharata Natyam, a classical dance form that originated in Tamil Nadu and is the oldest dance of India. An important cultural centre for Bharata Natyam is Kalakshetra, on the beach in the south of the city. In 2012, a group of five Bharatha Natyam dancers from Chennai performed at the \"India Campaign\" during the 2012 Summer Olympics.\nChennai has been featured in UNESCO Creative Cities Network (UCCN) list since October 2017 for its century-old musical tradition. Chennai is also home to some choirs, who during the Christmas season stage various carol performances across the city in Tamil and English.\n\nMadras is divided into four broad regions: North, Central, South and West. North Madras is primarily an industrial area. South Madras and West Madras, previously mostly residential, are fast becoming commercial, home to a growing number of information technology firms, financial companies and call centres. The city is expanding quickly along the Old Mahabalipuram Road and the Grand Southern Trunk Road (GST Road) in the south and towards Ambattur, Koyambedu and Sriperumbdur in the west. Central Madras comprises residential elements, but is primarily home to the downtown area, and surrounding areas, the most visited by travellers to the city. The financial district is also located here.\n\nWith temples, beaches and centres of historical and cultural significance, including the UNESCO Heritage Site of Mahabalipuram, Chennai is one of the most visited cities in India. The city serves as the gateway to the southern part of India with tourists landing in the city and starting their trip to the rest of the region. Chennai was the most visited Indian city by foreign tourists in 2009 and issued the third highest number of visas on arrival in 2014. In 2011, Chennai was ranked 41st in global top 100 city destination ranking, with 3,174,500 tourists, a 14 percent increase from 2010. About 830,620 domestic tourists arrived in Chennai in March 2011. Top foreign nationals visiting the city include those from Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Singapore, United Kingdom, France and United States. In 2015, the city received 4,243,700 foreign tourists making it the 3rd most visited city in India after Delhi and Mumbai and 43rd most visited city in the world by foreign tourists. , the city had 21 luxury hotels in the five-star category, with over 4,500 rooms in the inventory.\n\nChennai is the base for the Tamil film industry, known as Kollywood. Many film personalities have gone on to become politicians including C.N.Annadurai, M. Karunanidhi, M.G. Ramachandran and J. Jayalalithaa. Chennai hosts major film studios, including AVM Productions, the oldest surviving studio in India. , there are 120 cinema screens and multiplexes. Major multiplexes include Sathyam Cinemas, Escape cinemas, Devi, Abirami complex and Mayajaal. Chennai's expansive theatre network stages many Tamil plays of many genres: political satire, slapstick comedy, history, mythology and drama. English plays are popular in the city, along with the more common Tamil-language plays.\n\nZoo, beaches, and wildlife parks form the primary recreation areas of the city. Chennai has a total coast length of more than 19 km. Marina Beach runs for , spanning along the shoreline of the city between the deltas of Cooum and Adyar, and is the second longest urban beach in the world. Elliot's Beach lies south of the Adyar delta. Covelong beach lies along the coromandal coast. Madras Crocodile Bank Trust is a reptile zoo located south of the city covering an area of and had over 450,000 visitors in 2007. The center has one of the world's largest collections of reptiles and has bred 14 of the 23 existing species of crocodiles and alligators. The Arignar Anna Zoological Park, one of the largest zoological parks in the world, attracts nearly 2 million visitors per year. The city boasts two popular beaches, the Marina and Elliot's. Guindy National Park, a protected area of Tamil Nadu, has a children's park and a snake park, which gained statutory recognition as a medium zoo from the Central Zoo Authority of India in 1995. Chennai is one of the few cities in the world that accommodates a national park, the Guindy National Park, within its limits. The city has an estimated 4.5 percent of its area under green cover. This enables Chennai residents to go birding. The seven zones of the old corporation limits has about 260 parks, many of which suffer poor maintenance. The city has a per capita park space of 0.41 sq m, which is the least among all metros in India. The eight zones in the newly added areas of the city have about 265 locations that have been identified for development of new parks. The largest among the parks is the 358-acre Tholkappia Poonga, developed to restore the fragile ecosystem of the Adyar estuary. The horticulture department-owned Semmozhi Poonga is a 20-acre botanical garden located in the downtown.\n\nChennai houses several theme parks, namely MGM Dizzee World and Queens Land. The safety of several amusement parks has been questioned after several fatal accidents occurred. Wonderla is planning to open an amusement park in 2017. Other important recreation centres include Madras Boat Club, which is over 140 years old, and Gymkhana Club, which is famous for its 18-hole golf courses. Built in 1867, Madras Boat Club is the second oldest surviving Indian rowing club.\n\nChennai is home to several malls, due to its status as an IT hub. Major ones include Express Avenue (EA), Citi Centre, Abirami mega mall, Spencer Plaza, Ampa Skywalk, Phoenix Market City and Forum Vijaya Mall. Chennai is an important gold market in India contributing to 45 percent of the 800-tonne annual national gold uptake. The city is also the base to the World Gold Council's India operations. The city's retail industry is majorly concentrated in T. Nagar which accounts for major share jewellery and clothes sold in Chennai. According to the 2012 report by property consultant Cushman & Wakefield, \"Main Streets Across the World\", Khader Nawaz Khan Road at Nungambakkam ranked 10th position in the list of 'Top 10 Global Highest Retail Rental Growth Markets 2012', with 36.7 percent jump in rents.\n\nRecent estimates of the economy of the entire Chennai Metropolitan Area range from $78.6 to $86 billion (PPP GDP), ranking it from fourth- to sixth-most productive metro area of India.\nChennai has a broad industrial base in the automobile, computer, technology, hardware manufacturing and healthcare sectors. , the city is India's second largest exporter of information technology (IT) and business process outsourcing (BPO) services. A major part of India's automobile industry is located in and around the city thus earning it the nickname \"Detroit of India\". It is known as the Cultural Capital of South India and is the third most visited city in India by international tourists according to Euromonitor. The city also serves as the location of the Madras Stock Exchange, India's fourth stock exchange, one of four permanently recognised by SEBI, and India's third-largest by trading volume, ranked behind the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange of India.\n\nIndustrialisation in the city dates back to the 16th century, when textile mills manufactured goods which were exported to British during its war with France. According to \"Forbes\" magazine, Chennai is one of the fastest growing cities in the world and is rated in the \"Forbes-Top 10 Fastest Growing Cities in the World\". It is ranked 4th in hosting the maximum number of \"Fortune\" 500 companies of India, next only to Mumbai, Delhi and Kolkata. It also is home to 24 Indian companies having a net worth of more than US$1 billion. , the city has about 34,260 identified companies in its 15 zones, of which 5,196 companies have a paid-up the capital of over 50 lakh.\nChennai has a diversified economic base anchored by the automobile, software services, hardware manufacturing, health care and financial services industries. According to the Confederation of Indian Industry, Chennai is estimated to grow to a US$100–billion economy, 2.5 times its present size, by the year 2025. , with 1 lakh crore investment in the pipeline over 5 years, the city is poised for major industrial investment. Chennai is classified as a global city by GaWC, with a ranking of Beta based on the extent of global reach and financial influence.\n\nThe city is base to around 40 percent of India's automobile industry and 45 percent of auto components industry. A large number of automotive companies including Royal enfield, Hyundai, Renault, Robert Bosch, Nissan Motors, Ashok Leyland, Yamaha Motor, Daimler AG, Caterpillar Inc., Komatsu Limited, BharatBenz, Ford, BMW and Mitsubishi have manufacturing plants in Chennai. The Heavy Vehicles Factory at Avadi produces military vehicles, including India's main battle tank: \"Arjun MBT\". The Integral Coach Factory manufactures railway coaches and other rolling stock for Indian Railways. The Ambattur–Padi industrial zone houses many textile manufacturers, and a special economic zone (SEZ) for apparel and footwear manufacturing has been set up in the southern suburbs of the city. Chennai contributes more than 50 percent of India's leather exports.\n\nMany software and software services companies have development centres in Chennai, which contributed 14 percent of India's total software exports of 14,42,140 lakh during 2006–07, making it the second largest Indian city software exporter following Bangalore. The Tidel Park in Chennai was billed as Asia's largest IT park when it was built. Major software companies have their offices set up here, with some of them making Chennai their largest base.\n\nProminent financial institutions, including the World Bank, Standard Chartered Bank, ABN AMRO, Bank of America, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Goldman Sachs, Barclays, HSBC, ING Group, Allianz, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Abu Dhabi Commercial Bank, Asian Development Bank, Credit Suisse, BNP Paribas Fortis, Irevna, Deutsche Bank and Citibank have back office and development centre operations in the city. Chennai is home to the national level commercial banks Indian Bank and Indian Overseas Bank and many state level co–operative banks, finance and insurance companies. Telecom and Electronics manufacturers based in and around Chennai include Samsung, Nokia Siemens, Motorola, Lenovo, Dell, Force10, Wipro, Flextronics and Siemens among others. Chennai is currently the largest electronics hardware exporter in India, accounting for 45% of the total exports in 2010–11. Telecom giants Ericsson and Alcatel-Lucent, pharmaceuticals giant Pfizer and chemicals giant Dow Chemicals have research and development facilities in Chennai. The TICEL bio–tech park at Taramani and Golden Jubilee bio–tech park at Siruseri houses biotechnology companies and laboratories. Chennai has a stock exchange called the Madras Stock Exchange.\n\nA study conducted by the National Housing Bank on the residential price index of Indian cities showed that Chennai experienced the highest growth after the 2008–2012 global financial crisis. Medical tourism is an important part of Chennai's economy with 45 percent of total medical tourists to India making to Chennai. The Tamil film industry and the Tamil television industry are also significant parts of Chennai's economy. The city also has a permanent exhibition complex in Nandambakkam called the Chennai Trade Centre. With 385 ultra-rich living in the city, Chennai is positioned in the sixth place among Indian cities that are home to the country's super-rich. The city is the third largest market in India for luxury cars.\n\nChennai is one of four Indian cities connected to the rest of the world by undersea fibre-optic cables, the other three being Mumbai, Kochi, and Tuticorin. The city is the landing point of major submarine telecommunication cable networks such as SMW (connecting India with Western Europe, Middle East and Southeast Asia), i2i (connecting India with Singapore), TIC (connecting India with Singapore), and BRICS (connecting India with Brasil, Russia, China and South Africa). The 3,175-km-long, 8-fiber-paired i2i has the world's largest design capacity of 8.4 terabits per second.\n\n, eight mobile phone service companies operate seven GSM networks including Airtel, Aircel, BSNL, Vodafone, Tata Docomo GSM, Idea, Reliance GSM and three CDMA networks including MTS, Relaince CDMA, Tata Docomo CDMA in the city. 2G Mobile internet connections are provided by all the operators and 4G, 3G mobile broadband are provided by few operators in the city. There are four land line companies providing Commercial and domestic broadband Internet services. Chennai was the first Indian city to deploy Wi-Fi internet access in a widespread manner. , there were 9.8 million mobile phone users in Chennai. In 2010, Chennai had the fourth highest number of active Internet users in India, with 2.2 million users. As of 2018, the city topped in broadband speed among Indian cities, with a recorded download speed of 32.67 Mbit/s.\n\nMajor power plants in the city include North Chennai Thermal Power Station, GMR Vasavi Diesel Power Plant, Ennore Thermal Power Station, Basin Bridge Gas Turbine Power Station, Madras Atomic Power Station and Vallur Thermal Power Project. According to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (TANGEDCO), , the city consumes about 20 percent of the electricity in the state of Tamil Nadu. The peak evening demand of the city is 1,500 MW which is about 50 percent of the state's peak evening demand of 3,000 megawatt. This includes 37 percent consumption by the industrial sector, 30 percent by the domestic sector, 18 percent by the agricultural sector, and 11.5 percent by the commercial sector. The peak power consumption is for four months between May and August, with the city consuming the highest during June because it is when the summer peaks. On 20 June 2013, the city consumed the highest of 52,785 MU.\n\n, the city consumes around 3.83 crore units of power a day or 1,400 crore units annually. Hourly consumption of power in the city is about 2,000 to 3,000 MW. Availability of power in the city has become a concern in recent years due to increasing demand and slow paced addition of power plants, due to which scheduled power cuts have become increasingly common. However, this situation was eradicated by the end of 2014. , the total electricity consumption by the street lamps in the city is 27 MW, costing about per month. The 426 sq km of the city has over 248,000 streetlights, including 88,000 in the newly expanded areas.\n\nThe Reserve Bank of India ranked Chennai as third largest deposit centre and third largest credit centre nationwide as of June 2012. Prior to the advent of modern commercial banks, the banking services in the city were offered to the public by \"Nattukottai Chettiars\" or \"Nagarathars\", chiefly in and around the neighbourhood of George Town, who offered loans as well as accepted money deposits from the public, in addition to offering loans to the agricultural labourers. Even today, many of the banking offices are housed in heritage structures belonging to the colonial era that are chiefly clustered around Rajaji road in George Town. Chennai is home to the first European-style banking system in India with the establishment of the 'Madras Bank' on 21 June 1683, almost a century before the establishment of the first commercial banks, such as the Bank of Hindustan and the General Bank of India, which were established in 1770 and 1786, respectively. Upon the recommendation of the British Finance Committee on the formation of a government bank, the Madras Bank, then known as the 'Government Bank', started functioning again from 1806. In 1843, the bank merged with the Carnatic Bank (1788), the British Bank of Madras (1795) and the Asiatic Bank (1804) and became the Bank of Madras, which was one of the three Presidency banks of India, the other two being the Bank of Bengal and the Bank of Bombay. In 1921, the three Presidency banks merged to form the Imperial Bank of India, which later became the State Bank of India in 1955.\n\nChennai is the headquarters of the Indian Bank, the Indian Overseas Bank and the erstwhile Bharat Overseas Bank, which merged with the Indian Overseas Bank in 2007. The city is home to the south zonal office of the Reserve Bank of India, the country's central bank, along with its zonal training centre and Reserve Bank Staff College, one of the two colleges of the bank. The city also houses the permanent back office of the World Bank, which is one of the largest buildings owned by the bank outside its headquarters in Washington, DC. The Chennai office handles corporate financial, accounting, administrative and IT services of the bank, in addition to several value-added operations of the bank that were earlier handled only in its Washington, DC office, including the bank's analytical work in bond valuation which is estimated to be US$100 billion. Several foreign banks have established their branches in the city. The first Sri Lankan Bank in India was established when the Bank of Ceylon opened its branch in Madras on 31 October 1995.\n\nChennai has world-class medical facilities, including both government-run and private hospitals. The government-aided hospitals include General Hospital, Adyar Cancer Institute, TB Sanatorium, and National Institute of Siddha. The National Institute of Siddha is one of the seven apex national-level educational institutions that promote excellence in Indian system of medicine and Ayurveda. Major hospitals in Chennai include Apollo Hospitals, Apollo Speciality Hospital, SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre, Chettinad Health City, MIOT Hospitals, Sri Ramachandra Medical College and Research Institute, Fortis Malar Hospital, Lifeline Hospitals, Vasan Healthcare, Dr Mehta Hospitals, Global Hospitals & Health City, Sankara Nethralaya and Vijaya Medical & Educational Trust. Chennai attracts about 45 percent of health tourists from abroad and 30 percent to 40 percent of domestic health tourists. The city has been termed \"India's health capital\".\n\nThe city has more than 12,500 beds in its hospitals, including about 5,000 in multi-specialty hospitals in the private sector and over 6,000 beds in the public sector. This works to 2.1 beds per 1,000 population against the national average of less than 1 bed per 1,000 population and the World Health Organization's norms of 3 beds per 1,000 persons, higher than any other city in the country.\n\nThe city generates 4,500 tonnes of garbage every day of which 429 tonnes are plastic waste. The city has three dumpyards, one each at Perungudi, Kodungaiyur, and Pallikaranai. The corporation has planned to close these yards and create four new dumpyards at Malaipattu, Minjur, Vallur and Kuthambakkam villages, ranging in size from to . The civic body also spends 400 crore a year on solid waste management.\n\nThe Chennai International Airport is the fourth busiest in India in terms of passenger traffic. It handled about 15.2 million passengers in 2013–2014; in terms of international passengers, Chennai is the third busiest airport behind Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi, and Chatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai. Chennai handles 400 flights a day, again placing it fourth among Indian airports. The city is connected to major hubs across Asia, Europe, and North America through more than 30 national and international carriers.\n\nThe existing airport is undergoing further modernisation and expansion with an addition of , while a new greenfield airport is to be constructed at an estimated cost of 2,000 crore in Sriperumbudur on of land. The new airport is said to be likely to handle cargo spillover traffic from the existing one.\n\nChennai hosts the headquarters of the Southern Railway. The city has four main railway terminals. Chennai Central, Chennai Egmore, Chennai Beach and Tambaram. Chennai Central station, the city's largest, provides access to other major cities as well as many other smaller towns across India, whereas Chennai Egmore provides access to destinations primarily within Tamil Nadu; however, it also handles a few inter–state trains. The Chennai suburban railway network, one of the oldest in the country, facilitates transportation within the city. It consists of four broad gauge sectors terminating at two locations in the city, namely Chennai Central and Chennai Beach. While three sectors are operated on-grade, the fourth sector is majorly an elevated corridor, which links Chennai Beach to Velachery and is interlinked with the remaining rail network.\n\nChennai Metro is a rapid transit system serving the city and was partially commenced on 29 June 2015. To improve the city's public transportation system and prepare the city for the future commuting needs, the Chennai Metro was planned and approved by the state cabinet during 2007 for which construction began on 2009. The Phase I of the Chennai Metro network consists of 2 lines (Blue Line and Green Line) covering a length of 45.1 kilometres (28.0 mi) consisting of 40 stations with Alandur and Chennai Central serving as interchanges. 55% of the corridors in Phase-I are underground and the rest are elevated. The first stretch of Phase-I, covering 7 stations from Koyambedu to Alandur over a distance of , began operation on 29 June 2015. As of May 2018, covering 26 stations from Chennai Central to Alandur on the Green line and AG-DMS to Chennai International Airport on Blue line are commercially operational which brings the total operational network over 35 km. The entire phase-I is scheduled to be operational by end of 2018. In December 2016, it was announced by Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) that Phase-2 of Chennai Metro is set to be for a length of 104 km consisting of 104 stations which is subject to approval from the state and central governments. In Jun 2018 they had 45,000 daily commuters.\n\nChennai is one of the cities in India that is connected by the Golden Quadrilateral system of National Highways. It is connected to other Indian cities by four major National Highways (NH) that originate in the city. They are NH 4 to Mumbai (via Bangalore, Pune), NH 5 to Kolkata (linked via NH 6) (via Visakhapatnam, Bhubaneswar), NH 45 to Theni (via Villupuram, Tiruchirapalli, Dindigul) and NH 205 to Madanapalle (via Tirupati). Chennai is connected to other parts of the state and the Union Territory of Puducherry by state highways.\n\nThe government has constructed grade separators and flyovers at major intersections, and built Inner Ring Road and Outer Ring Road. The Gemini flyover, built in 1973 crosses over the arterial road, and eases the traffic movements towards Anna Salai and towards the Kathipara Flyover. , according to the Transport Department, there were 25.8 lakh two–wheelers and 5.6 lakh four–wheelers in the city, and the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) bus fleet were 3,421, which was 0.1% of the total vehicular population of the city.\n\nWhen opened, the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus (CMBT) was the largest bus station in Asia. It is the main intercity bus station of Chennai, administered by 7 government-owned transport corporations, which operate intercity and interstate bus services. There are many private bus companies that provide similar transport services. The MTC provides an exclusive intracity bus service, consisting of 3,421 buses on 724 routes, which provides transportation to 55.2 lakh passengers daily. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation operates Volvo air-conditioned services from Chennai to nearby cities like Pondicherry, Vellore, Hosur and Trichy.\n\nThe other means of road transport in the city include vans, regionally known as \"Maxi Cabs\", auto rickshaws, on-call metered taxis and tourist taxis.\n\nChennai outer ring road is 62.3 km long connecting NH 45 (GST Road) at Perungalathur, NH 4 (GWT Road) at Nazarathpet, NH 205 (CTH Road) at Nemilicherry(Thiruninravur), NH 5 (GNT Road) at Nallur and TPP road at Minjur under the process by Chennai Metropolitan Area.\n\nThe city is served by two major ports, Chennai Port, one of the largest artificial ports in India, and Ennore Port. The Chennai port is the largest in Bay of Bengal, with an annual cargo tonnage of 6.146 crore (2010–2011), and second largest containerise hub in India, with an annual container volume of 15.23 lakh TEUs (2010–2011). The port handles transportation of automobiles, motorcycles and general industrial cargo. The Ennore Port with an annual cargo tonnage of 1.101 crore (2010–2011) handles cargo such as coal, ore and other bulk and rock mineral products. Royapuram fishing harbour is used by fishing boats and Kattupalli Shipyard near Ennore Port was inaugurated in January 2013.\n\nNewspaper publishing started in Chennai with the launch of a weekly, \"The Madras Courier\", in 1785. It was followed by the weeklies \"The Madras Gazette\" and \"The Government Gazette\" in 1795. \"The Spectator\", founded in 1836, was the first English newspaper in Chennai to be owned by an Indian and became the city's first daily newspaper in 1853. The first Tamil newspaper, \"Swadesamitran\", was launched in 1899.\n\nThe major English dailies published in Chennai are \"The Hindu\", \"The New Indian Express\", \"The Deccan Chronicle\" and \"The Times of India\" and many more. The evening dailies are, \"The Trinity Mirror\" and \"The News Today\". , \"The Hindu\" was the city's most read English newspaper, with a daily circulation of 267,349. The major business dailies published from the city are \"The Economic Times\", \"The Hindu Business Line\", \"Business Standard\", \"Mint\" and \"The Financial Express\". The major Tamil dailies include the \"Dina Thanthi\", \"Dinakaran\", \"Dina Mani\", \"Dina Malar\", \"The Hindu Tamil\", \"Tamil Murasu\", \"Makkal Kural\" and \"Malai Malar\". \"Malayala Manorama\" and \"Mathrubhumi\" are the major Malayalam dailies while major Telugu dailies include \"Eenadu\", \"Vaartha\", \"Andhra Jyothi\" and \"Sakshi\". The one and only Hindi Newspaper published from Chennai is the \"Rajasthan Patrika\". The Local weekly Newspapers circulated to residents are T.Nagar Times, Pillar Times, Arcot Road Talk, Chrompet Times. Chennai's First Corporate Leisure Newspaper, \"The Shopping Express\". Magazines published from Chennai include \"Ananda Vikatan\", \"Kumudam\", \"Kalki\", \"Kungumam\", \"Puthiya Thalaimurai\",\"Thuglak\", \"Frontline\" and \"Sportstar\"\nDoordarshan runs two terrestrial television channels and two satellite television channels from its Chennai centre, which was set up in 1974. Private Tamil satellite television networks such as Sun TV, Raj TV, Zee Tamizh, Star Vijay, Jaya TV, Makkal TV, Vasanth TV, Kalaignar TV, Captain TV and PuthiyaThalaimurai TV broadcast out of Chennai. The Sun Network one of India's largest broadcasting companies is based in the city. While the cable TV service is entirely controlled by the state government, direct–to–home (DTH) is available via DD Direct Plus, Dish TV, Tata Sky, Videocon DTH, Sun direct DTH, Reliance Big TV and Digital TV. Chennai is the first city in India to have implemented the Conditional Access System for cable television. Radio broadcasting began in 1924 by the Madras Presidency Radio Club. The radio station at the Rippon Buildings complex was founded in 1930 and was then shifted to All India Radio in 1938. The city has 4 AM and 11 FM radio stations operated by All India Radio, Anna University and Suryan FM, Radio Mirchi, BIG FM, Hello FM, Radio City, Radio One among others.\n\nChennai ranks second among Indian metropolitan city centres with a 90.33 percent literacy rate. Chennai has a mix of public and private schools, some of which also receive financial support from the government.\n\nThe public school system is managed by the Chennai Corporation with an enrolment of 142,387 students in over 330 schools. Tamil and English are the primary medium of instruction, though some schools also use Telugu and Urdu as medium of instruction in their schools. Public schools run by the Chennai Corporation are all affiliated with the Tamil Nadu State Board, while private schools may be affiliated with either of the Tamil Nadu Board of Secondary Education or the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). A few schools are affiliated with the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) board or the Montessori system. Education in Chennai starts with two years of Kindergarten from age three onward and then follows the Indian 10+2+3 plan, ten years of school, two years of higher secondary education, and three years of undergraduate education.\n\nEnglish is the medium of instruction in the majority of institutions for higher education. The University of Madras, founded in 1857, is one of the India's first three modern universities. Colleges for science, arts and commerce degrees are typically affiliated with the University of Madras, which has six campuses in the city. The Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT Madras) and the College of Engineering, Guindy, Anna University are two well known centres for engineering education in the city. The Indian Army's Officers Training Academy is also headquartered in the city.\n\nChennai has a plethora of libraries, including British Council Library, American Library, Connemara Public Library, and Anna Centenary Library. The Connemara Public Library is one of four National Depository Centres in India that receive a copy of all newspapers and books published in the country. The Anna Centenary Library is the largest library in Asia.\n\nChennai has two CSIR research institutions namely Central Leather Research Institute and Structural Engineering Research Centre. Chennai Book Fair, an annual book fair organised in Chennai by the Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India (BAPASI), is the largest exhibition for Tamil book publishers to display their books. The fair is typically held for about 10 days between the last week of December and the third week of January. The forty-first edition of the fair was held in 2018. Chennai also has Indian Maritime University to impart quality education in maritime management, engineering and different pre sea courses. This is the only central university, headquartered in Chennai to impart maritime education in India.\n\nCricket is the most popular sport in Chennai. It was introduced in 1864 with the foundation of the Madras Cricket Club. The M.A. Chidambaram Stadium established in 1916 is among the oldest cricket stadium in India. The stadium was also one of the venues of the 1987,1996 and 2011 ICC Cricket World Cups. Chemplast Cricket Ground located at the IIT Madras campus is another important venue for cricket matches. Prominent cricketers from the city include former cricket captains S. Venkataraghavan and Kris Srikkanth. A cricket fast bowling academy called the MRF Pace Foundation, whose coaches include T. A. Sekhar and Glenn Mcgrath, is based in Chennai. Being home to the Indian Premier League (IPL) cricket team Chennai Super Kings, the city hosted the finals of the IPL's 2011 and 2012 series.\n\nThe city's football team Chennaiyin FC competes in the Indian Super League, the country's association football league associated with Asian Football Federation and recognized by FIFA. The club uses the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium nicknamed the Marina Arena as their home ground and are champions of the Indian Super League in 2015 and 2018.\n\nChennai was the venue of the 1995 South Asian Games. Chennai is home to a World Series Hockey (WSH) team, the Chennai Cheetahs. The Mayor Radhakrishnan Stadium is associated with hockey and was venue for the international hockey tournament the 2005 Men's Champions Trophy and the 2007 Men's Asia Cup. The Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium is associated for hosting Football and athletic competitions, it also houses a multi–purpose indoor complex for competition in volleyball, basketball and table tennis. Water sports are played in the Velachery Aquatic Complex. Tennis sport is popularising among the city youths, Since 1997 Chennai has been host to the only ATP World Tour event held in India, the Chennai Open which has been shifted to Pune as Maharashtra Open from 2017. Vijay Amritraj, Mahesh Bhupathi Ramesh Krishnan and Somdev Devvarman are tennis players from Chennai.\nChennai is home to Chennai Slam, two-time national champion of India's top professional basketball division, the UBA Pro Basketball League.\n\nMadras Boat Club (founded in 1846) and the Royal Madras Yacht Club (founded by Sir Francis Spring in 1911) promote the sailing sports in Chennai, and organise national and international sailing events. Automobile racing in India has been closely connected with Chennai since its beginnings shortly after independence. Motor racing events are held on a special purpose track in Irungattukottai, Sriperumbudur, which has also been the venue for several international competitions. Formula One driver Karun Chandhok was born in Chennai.\n\nHorse racing is held at the Guindy Race Course, while rowing competitions are hosted at the Madras Boat Club. The city has two 18–hole golf courses, the Cosmopolitan Club and the Gymkhana Club, both established in the late nineteenth century. The city has a rugby union team called the Chennai Cheetahs.\n\nPrevious world chess champion Viswanathan Anand grew up in Chennai. Other sports persons of repute from Chennai include table tennis players Sharath Kamal and two–time world carrom champion, Maria Irudayam. Chennai was the host of the World Chess Championship 2013 match between Viswanathan Anand and Magnus Carlsen.\n\nThe consular presence in the city dates back to 1794, when William Abbott was appointed US consular agent for South India. , there were 43 foreign representations in Chennai, including consulates general, deputy high commissions and honorary consulates. The American Consulate in Chennai is one of the top adjudication posts in the world and the number one in processing employment-based visas. It was ranked among the top globally in issuing 'L' and 'H' category visas for workers and professionals and was ranked eighth globally in terms of all category of visas being issued.\n\nThe Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO), which is the office of the field officers in charge of immigration and registration activities in the city, is located at Shastri Bhavan at Haddows Road.\n\nChennai has sister city relationships with the following cities of the world:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2872472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2872472", "title": "Costumbrismo", "text": "Costumbrismo\n\nCostumbrismo (sometimes anglicized as Costumbrism) is the literary or pictorial interpretation of local everyday life, mannerisms, and customs, primarily in the Hispanic scene, and particularly in the 19th century. \"Costumbrismo\" is related both to artistic realism and to Romanticism, sharing the Romantic interest in expression as against simple representation and the romantic \"and\" realist focus on precise representation of particular times and places, rather than of humanity in the abstract. It is often satiric and even moralizing, but unlike mainstream realism does not usually offer or even imply any particular analysis of the society it depicts. When not satiric, its approach to quaint folkloric detail often has a romanticizing aspect.\n\n\"Costumbrismo\" can be found in any of the visual or literary arts; by extension, the term can also be applied to certain approaches to collecting folkloric objects, as well. Originally found in short essays and later in novels, \"costumbrismo\" is often found in the \"zarzuelas\" of the 19th century, especially in the \"género chico\". \"Costumbrista\" museums deal with folklore and local art and \"costumbrista\" festivals celebrate local customs and artisans and their work.\n\nAlthough initially associated with Spain in the late 18th and 19th century, \"costumbrismo\" expanded to the Americas and set roots in the Spanish-speaking portions of the Americas, incorporating indigenous elements. Juan López Morillas summed up the appeal of \"costumbrismo\" for writing about Latin American society as follows: the \"costumbristas<nowiki>'</nowiki>\" \"preoccupation with minute detail, local color, the picturesque, and their concern with matters of style is frequently no more than a subterfuge. Astonished by the contradictions observed around them, incapable of clearly understanding the tumult of the modern world, these writers sought refuge in the particular, the trivial or the ephemeral.\"\n\nAntecedents to \"costumbrismo\" can be found as early as the 17th century (for example in the work of playwright Juan de Zabaleta) and the current becomes clearer in the 18th century (Diego de Torres Villarroel, José Clavijo y Fajardo, José Cadalso, Ramón de la Cruz, Juan Ignacio González del Castillo). All of these writers have, in at least some of their work, an attention to specific, local detail, an exaltation of the \"typical\" that would feed into both \"costumbrismo\" and Romanticism. In the 19th century \"costumbrismo\" bursts out as a clear genre in its own right, addressing a broad audience: stories and illustrations often made their first or most important appearance in cheap periodicals for the general public. It is not easy to draw lines around the genre: Evaristo Correa Calderón spoke of its \"extraordinary elasticity and variety\". Some of it is almost reportorial and documentary, some simply folkloric; what it has in common is the effort to capture a particular place (whether rural or urban) at a particular time.\nSebastián de Miñano y Bedoya (1779–1845) is considered by some a \"costumbrista\", although arguably his writing is too political to properly fit the genre. According to Andrés Soria, the first incontestable \"costumbristas\" are the anonymous and pseudonymous contributors to \"La Minerva\" (1817), \"El Correo Literario y Mercantil\" (1823–33) and \"El Censor\" (1820–23). Later come the major figures of literary \"costumbrismo\": Serafín Estébanez Calderón (1799–1867), Ramón de Mesonero Romanos (1803–82), and Mariano José de Larra (1809–37) who sometimes wrote under the pseudonym \"Fígaro\". Estébanez Calderón (who originally wrote for the abovementioned \"Correo Literario y Mercantil\") looked for a \"genuine\" and picturesque Spain in the recent past of particular regions; Mesonero Romanos was a careful observer of the Madrid of his time, especially of the middle classes; Larra, according to José Ramón Lomba Pedraja, arguably transcended his genre, using the form of \"costumbrismo\" for political and psychological ideas. An \"afrancesado\"—a liberal child of the Enlightenment—he was not particularly enamored of the Spanish society that he nonetheless observed minutely.\n\n\"Costumbrismo\" was by no means without foreign influences. The work of Joseph Addison and Richard Steele nearly a century earlier in \"The Spectator\" had influenced French writers, who in turn influenced the \"costumbristas\". Furthermore, Addison and Steele's own work was translated into Spanish in the early 19th century, and Mesonero Romanos, at least, had read it in French. Still, an even stronger influence came by way of Victor-Joseph Étienne de Jouy (whose work appeared in translation in \"La Minerva\" and \"El Censor\"), Louis-Sébastien Mercier (especially for \"Le Tableau de Paris\", 1781–88), Charles Joseph Colnet Du Ravel, and Georges Touchard-Lafosse. In addition, there were the travelogues such as Richard Ford's \"A Handbook for Travellers in Spain\", written by various foreigners who had visited Spain and, in painting, the foreign artists (especially, David Roberts) who had settled for a time especially in Seville and Granada and drew or painted local subjects.\n\nWhile Estébanez Calderón, Mesonero Romanos, and (insofar as he fits the genre) Larra were the major \"costumbrista\" writers, many other Spanish writers of the 19th century devoted all or part of their careers to \"costumbrismo\". Antonio María Segovia (1808–74), who mainly wrote pseudonymously as \"El Estudiante\" and who founded the satiric-literary magazine \"El Cócora\"; his collaborator Santos López Pelegrín (1801–46), \"Abenámar\"; many early contributors to Madrid's \"Semanario Pintoresco Español\" (1836-57), Spain's first illustrated magazine; and such lesser lights as Antonio Neira de Mosquera (1818–53), \"El Doctor Malatesta\" (\"Las ferias de Madrid\", 1845); Clemente Díaz, with whom \"costumbrismo\" took a turn toward the rural; Vicente de la Fuente (1817–89), portraying the lives of bookish students (in between writing serious histories); José Giménez Serrano, portraying a romantic Andalusia; Enrique Gil y Carrasco, a Carlist from Villafranca del Bierzo, friend of Alexander von Humboldt, and contributor to the \"Semanario Pintoresco Español\"; and many other regionalists around Spain.\n\nMuch as literary \"costumbrismo\" had been influenced by English models, often by way of France, the same occurred with the equivalent in the visual arts, but with far more recent models. In a period when physiognomy was in vogue, \"Heads of the People or Portraits of the English\" was serialized in London starting in 1838 and was published in its entirety in 1840–41. It combined essays by such \"distinguished writers\" (the volume's own choice of words) as William Makepeace Thackeray and Leigh Hunt with pictures of individuals emblematic of different English \"types\". This was followed in France by a work first serialized as \"Les Français, Moeurs Contemporaines\" (\"The French, Contemporary Manners\", beginning in 1839) and published in a volume in 1842 as \"Les Français peints par eux-mêmes. Encyclopédie Morale du dixneuviéme siécle\" (\"The French, drawn by themselves. Moral Encyclopedia of the 19th Century\"). The Spanish soon followed with \"Los españoles pintados por sí mismos\" (\"The Spanish Drawn By Themselves\") serialized from 1842 and published in a volume in 1843.\nA collective and hence, necessarily, uneven anthology of \"types\", \"Los españoles…\" was a mixture of verse and prose, and of writers and artists from various generations. Illustrators included Leonardo Alenza (1807–45), Fernando Miranda, Francisco Lameyer (1825–1877), Vicente Urrabieta y Ortiz, and Calixto Ortega. The writers included Mesonero and Estébanez as well as various less \"costumbrista\" writers and many not usually associated with the genre, such as Gabriel García Tassara (1817–75) or the conservative politician Francisco Navarro Villoslada (1818–95). Andrés Soria remarks that, except for the Andalusian \"types\", everything was from the point of view of Madrid. Unlike later \"costumbrismo\", the focus remained firmly on the present day. In some ways, the omissions are as interesting as the inclusions: no direct representation of the aristocracy, of prominent businessmen, of the high clergy, or of the army, and except for the \"popular\" classes, the writing is a bit circumspect and cautious. Still, the material is strong on ethnological, folkloric, and linguistic detail.\n\nIn an epilogue to \"Los españoles…\", \"Contrastes. Tipos perdidos, 1825, Tipos hallados, 1845\" (\"Contrasts. Types lost, 1825, types found, 1845\"), Mesonero on the one hand showed that the genre, in its original terms, was played out, and on the other laid the ground for future \"costumbrismo\": new \"types\" would always arise, and many places remained to be written about in this fashion. The book had many descendants, and a major reissue in 1871. A particularly strong current came out of Barcelona: for example, José M. de Freixas's \"Enciclopedia de tipos vulgares y costumbres de Barcelona\" (\"Encyclopedia of vulgar types and customs of Barcelona\", 1844) illustrated by Servat, and \"El libro Verde de Barcelona\" (\"The Green Book of Barcelona\", 1848) by \"José y Juan\" (José de Majarrés and Juan Cortada y Sala. The very title of \"Los valencianos pintados por sí mismos\" (Valencia 1859) gave a nod of the hat to the earlier work,\nA revival of collective works of \"costumbrismo\" in the time of the First Spanish Republic saw the reissue of \"Los españoles…\" (1872), as well as the publication of \"Los españoles de hogaño\" (\"The Spanish these days\", 1872), focused on Madrid, and the vast undertaking \"Las mujeres españolas, portuguesas y americanas…\" (\"Spanish, Portuguese, and American Women…\", published in Madrid, Havana, and Buenos Aires in 1872–1873 and 1876). Also from this time was the satiric \"Madrid por dentro y por fuera\" (\"Madrid from inside and outside, 1873) by Manuel del Palacio (1831–1906).\n\nCarlos Frontaura carried on \"costumbrismo\" in Madrid with \"Las tiendas\" (\"Shops\", 1886) and \"Tipos madrileños\" (\"Madrid types\", 1888). Ramón de Navarrete (1822–1897) writing variously as or \"Asmodeo\" (after Asmodeus, king of the demons), broke with the history of the genre by writing of the upper classes in Madrid during the Restoration, as in his \"Sueños y realidades (\"Dreams and realities\", 1878). Enrique Sepúlveda wrote about both Madrid and Barcelona, Narcís Oller (1846–1930) about Barcelona, and Sabino de Goicoechea (1826–1901), known as \"Argos\", about the Basque Country. Galicia was represented by the collective work \"El álbum de Galicia. Tipos, costumbres y leyendas\" (\"The album of Galicia. Types, customs and legends\", 1897).\n\nPoet, journalist and pamphleteer Antonio Flores Algovia (1821–65), one of the contributors to \"Los españoles…\" followed up in 1846 with \"Doce españoles de brocha gorda, que no pudiéndose pintar a sí mismos, me han encargado a mí, Antonio Flores, sus retratos\" (\"Twelve Spaniards with a broad brush, who not being able to portray themselves have put me, Antonio Flores, in charge of their portraits\"), subtitled a \"novel of popular customs\" (\"novela de costumbres populares\"). Published in 1846 and reissued several times, the book merged the hitherto more essayistic \"costumbrista\" form with aspects of the novel (although not a particularly tightly plotted novel). Somewhat more novelistic was his \"Fe, Esperanza y Caridad\" (\"Faith Hope and Charity\"), published serially in \"La Nación\" in 1850–1851 and also much reprinted. Flores had been Eugène Sue's translator into Spanish, and Sue's influence is strong in this work. Flores turned to again to \"custumbrismo\", of a sort, in 1853 with \"Ayer, hoy y mañana o la fe, el vapor y la electricidad (cuadros sociales de 1800, 1850 y 1899)\" (\"Yesterday, today and tomorrow or faith, steam and electricity (social pictures of 1800, 1850, and 1899)\") going Mesonero's \"types lost\" and \"types found\" one better by projecting a vision of the future influenced by the work of Émile Souvestre. His newspaper \"El Laberinto\" continued publishing his \"costumbrista\" work even posthumously, such as \"Tipos y costumbres españolas\" (1877).\n\nEugenio de Ochoa (1815–72) carried \"costumbrismo\" in a different direction. Born in the Basque country and moving often between Spain and France, his 1860 book \"Museo de las familias. París, Londres y Madrid\" (\"Museum of families. Paris, London, Madrid\") created a sort of cosmopolitan \"costumbrismo\".\n\nMany of the great Spanish realist writers of the 19th century worked at times in the \"costumbrista\" mode, especially at the start of their careers. Fernán Caballero (pen name of Cecilia Francisca Josefa Böhl de Faber) (1796–1877), for example, in the prose portions of her \"Cuentos y poesías populares andaluzas\" (\"Popular Andalusian stories and poems\", collected in 1859 from prior publication in magazines), writes within the genre, particularly in \"Una paz hecha sin preliminares, sin conferencias y sin notas diplomáticas\" (\"A peace made without preliminaries, without conferences, and without diplomatic notes\"), with its very specific setting in Chiclana de la Frontera. Pedro Antonio de Alarcón (1833–1891) issued a collection \"Cosas que fueron\", bringing together 16 \"costumbrista\" articles.\n\nAndrés Soria sees José María de Pereda (1833–1906) as the most successful fusion of \"costumbrista\" scenes into proper novels, especially his portrayals of \"La Montaña\", the mountainous regions of Cantabria. His \"Escenas montañesas\" (1864) is particularly in the \"costumbrista\" mode, with its mixture of urban, rural and seafaring scenes, and sections offering sketches of various milieus. Poet and novelist Antonio de Trueba (1819 or 1821–89) wrote squarely within the genre with \"Madrid por fuera\" and \"De flor en flor\". Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer (1836–1870) portrayed Madrid, Seville, and Toledo. José María Gabriel y Galán (1870–1905), best known as a poet, also wrote \"costumbrista\" pieces about Salamanca. Armando Palacio Valdés (1853–1938) also essayed the genre in newspaper articles, collected in \"Aguas fuertes\" (\"Strong waters\", 1884). The writer and diplomat Ángel Ganivet (1865–98), seen by some as a precursor to the Generation of '98, wrote \"costumbrista\" scenes of Granada.\n\nElements of \"costumbrismo\", or even entire works in the genre, can be found among major Spanish writers of the 20th century, though to a lesser extent. Miguel de Unamuno (1864–1936) worked in the genre for \"De mi país\" (\"Of my country\", 1903) and some stories such as \"Solitaña\" in of \"El espejo de la muerte\" (\"The Mirror of Death\", 1913), as did Pío Baroja with \"Vitrina pintoresca\" (\"Picturesque showcase\", 1935) and in passages of his novels set in the Basque Country. Azorín (José Augusto Trinidad Martínez Ruíz, 1873–1967) often wrote in this genre; one could comb the works of Ramón Gómez de la Serna (1888–1963) and Camilo José Cela (1916–2002) and find many passages that could come straight from a work of \"costumbrismo\". Although taken as a whole these writers are clearly not \"costumbristas\", they use the \"costumbrista\" style to evoke surviving remnants of Spain's past.\n\nThe tradition of \"costumbrismo\" in Spain by no means ended at the turn of the century, but it simply did not play as important a role in 20th-century Spanish literature as it did in the century before. As noted above, several of the most important 20th-century Spanish writers at least dabbled in, or were influenced by, the genre. When we go beyond the first string of writers, we see more of a continuation of \"costumbrismo\".\n\nIn the course of the century, more and more Spanish regions asserted their particularity, allowing this now established technique of writing to be given new scope. In other regions—Madrid, Andalusia—\"costumbrismo\" itself had become part of the region's identity. The magazine \"España\", founded 1915, wrote about some new \"types\": the indolent \"golfo\"; the lower class \"señorito chulo\" with his airs and exaggerated fashions; the \"albañil\" or construction worker, but with far less sympathy than \"costumbristas\" in the previous century had portrayed their predecessors. Other \"types\" were those who were a caricature of times past: \"el erudito\", with his vast but pointless book-learning, or \"El poeta de juegos florales\" (\"the poet of floral games\").\nAndrés Soria describes 20th century regional \"costumbrismo\" as more serious, less picturesque, and more poetic than in the 19th century. Among his many examples of the 20th century continuation of \"costumbrismo\" are Santiago Rusiñol (1861–1931), writing in Catalan about Catalonia and Mallorca; numerous chroniclers of the Basque Country: José María Salaverría (1873–1940), Ricardo Baroja (1871–1953), Dionisio de Azkue (\"Dunixi\"), José María Iribarren (1906–1971), and, as mentioned above, Pío Baroja; Vicente Blasco Ibáñez (1867–1928) writing about Valencia; and Vicente Medina Tomás (1866–1937), writing about Murcia.\n\nA strong current of \"costumbrismo\" continued in 20th-century Madrid, including in poetry (Antonio Casero, 1874–1936) and theater (José López Silva, 1860–1925; Carlos Arniches Barreda, 1866–1943). Other writers who continued the tradition were Eusebio Blasco (1844–1903), Pedro de Répide (1882–1947), Emiliano Ramírez Ángel (1883–1928), Luis Bello (1872–1935), and Federico Carlos Sainz de Robles (1899–1983). Similarly, 20th century Andalusia saw work by José Nogales (1860?–1908), Salvador Rueda (1857–1933), Arturo Reyes (1864–1913), José Mas y Laglera (1885–1940), Ángel Cruz Rueda (1888–1961), and Antonio Alcalá Venceslada (1883–1955).\n\nCostumbrismo is an art form developed by Spanish painters. In the 19th-century, a wave of nationalistic fervour took hold, providing the stimulus for painters to focus on local customs (or \"costumbres\"). As in literary \"costumbrismo\", Madrid and Andalusia (particularly Seville) were Spain's two great centers of \"costumbrismo\" in the visual arts. Andalusian \"costumbrista\" paintings were mainly romantic and folkloric, largely devoid of social criticism. Much of their market was to foreigners for whom Andalusia epitomized their vision of a Spain distinct from the rest of Europe. The \"costumbrista\" artists of Madrid were more acerbic, sometimes even vulgar, in portraying the life of lower class Madrid. More of their market was domestic, including to the often snobbish (and often Europeanizing and liberal) elite of the capital. Among other things, the School of Madrid often used large masses of solid color and painted with a broad brush, while the School of Seville painted more delicately. The Madrid paintings have a certain urgency, while the Seville paintings are typically serene, even misty. The Madrid painters focus more on unique individuals, the Sevillianos on individuals as representatives of a type.\nRomantic Andalusian \"costumbrismo\" (\"costumbrismo andaluz\") follows in the footsteps of two painters of the School of Cádiz, Juan Rodríguez y Jiménez, \"el Panadero\" (\"the Baker\", 1765–1830) and Joaquín Manuel Fernández Cruzado (1781–1856), both associated with Romanticism. The trend was continued by the School of Seville, in a city much more on the path of a foreign clientele. The founding figure was José Domínguez Bécquer (1805–41), father of the poet Gustavo Adolfo Bécquer (see above) and painter Valeriano Bécquer (1833–70), who moved to Madrid. Domínguez Bécquer's influence came as an art teacher, as well as an artist. His student and cousin Joaquín Domínguez Bécquer (1817–79) was known for his acute observation of light and atmosphere. Another of José Domínguez Bécquer's students, the bold and forceful Manuel Rodríguez de Guzmán (1818–67), may have been the genre's strongest painter.\n\nOther important early figures were Antonio Cabral Bejarano (1788–1861), best known for paintings of individuals theatrically posed against rural backgrounds, and an atmosphere reminiscent of Murillo, and José Roldán (1808–71), also very influenced by Murillo, known especially as a painter of children and urchins. One of Cabral Bejarano's sons, Manuel Cabral Bejarano (1827–91) began as a \"costumbrista\", but eventually became more of a realist. Another son, Francisco Cabral Bejarano (1824–90), also painted in the genre.\n\nOther painters of the School of Seville were Andrés Cortés (1810–79), Rafael García Hispaleto (1833–54), Francisco Ramos, and Joaquín Díez; history painter José María Rodríguez de Losada (1826–96); and portraitist José María Romero (1815–80).\n\nTypical subject matter included \"majos\" (lower class dandies) and their female equivalents, horsemen, bandits and smugglers, street urchins and beggars, Gypsies, traditional architecture, fiestas, and religious processions such as Holy Week in Seville.\n\nThe School of Madrid was united less by a common visual style than by an attitude, and by the influence of Goya rather than Murillo. Notable in this school were Alenza and Lameyer, both contributors to \"Los españoles pintados por sí mismos\". Alenza, in particular, showed a strong influence from the Flemish painters as well as from Goya. A fine portraitist who tended to take his subjects from among the common people, in some ways he epitomizes the difference between the School of Madrid and that of Seville. For him the \"official\" Romanticism was a topic to satirize, as in his series of paintings \"Suicidios románticos\" (\"Romantic suicides\").\nProbably foremost in the School of Madrid was Eugenio Lucas Velázquez (1817–70). An artistic successor to Goya (though a more erratic painter than the master), Lucas Velázquez's work ranged from bullfighting scenes to Orientalism to scenes of witchcraft. His son Eugenio Lucas Villamil (1858–1918) and his students Paulino de la Linde (1837-?) and José Martínez Victoria followed in his tracks; he was also a strong influence on Antonio Pérez Rubio (1822–88) and Ángel Lizcano Monedero (1846–1929).\n\nJosé Elbo (1804–44) was at least strongly akin to the School of Madrid. Although born in Úbeda in the Andalusian province of Jaén, Elbo studied painting in Madrid under José Aparicio (1773–1838), and was influenced by Goya; he was also influenced by the Central European equivalents of \"costumbrismo\". His painting is rife with social criticism, and often angrily populist.\n\nAlso in Madrid, but not really part of the School of Madrid, was Valeriano Bécquer (transplanted son of José Domínguez Bécquer). Although also influenced by Goya (and by Diego Velázquez), his work in Madrid did partake of some of the socially critical aspects of the other painters of that city, but not of the satiric aspects: his portraits of common people emphasize their dignity, seldom their foibles.\n\nThe dark vision of 20th-century Madrid painter José Gutiérrez Solana (1886–1945) was influenced by \"costumbrismo\" and also directly by the Black Paintings of Goya that had so influenced the \"costumbristas\".\n\nIn nineteenth-century Mexico, colonial-era casta paintings, a type of secular genre painting depicting racial categories and hierarchy disappeared at independence when casta categories were abolished, but costumbrismo paintings resonated with the stereotypes of the earlier genre. A number of foreign visitors to Mexico produced images in the costumbrista tradition, including Claudio Linati and Edouard Pingret. The most significant Mexican costumbrista painter is José Agustín Arrieta, whose paintings of a market scene (\"La Sorpresa\"), a kitchen scene (\"La Cocina Poblana\"), and a tavern scene (\"Tertulia de pulquería\") are well known. One less famous than Arrieta is (ca. 1830-ca. 1870s), about whom little is known. His painting \"Vendador de buñuelos\", depicting a fritter seller in an urban night scene is in the collections of the Mexican government. Another less well known Mexican artist is (1824-1904), who was also a writer, teacher, art critic, intellectual, and cultural diplomat.\"\n\nSome of Argentina's most distinguished writers worked in the \"costumbrista\" genre in at least some of their writing, though few worked narrowly within the genre. Esteban Echeverría (1805–51) was a politically passionate Romantic writer whose work has strong \"costumbrista\" aspects; his \"El Matadero\" (\"The Slaughterhouse\") is still widely read. Juan Bautista Alberdi (1810–84) and Domingo Faustino Sarmiento (1811–1888) both wrote at times in the genre, as did José Antonio Wilde (1813–83), in \"Buenos Aires desde setenta años atrás\" (\"Buenos Aires from seventy years ago\"); Vicente G. Quesada (1830–1913), in \"Recuerdos de un viejo\" (\"Memories of an old man\"); Lucio V. López (1848–94), in the novela \"La gran aldea\" (\"The big village\"); Martín Coronado (1850–1919), playwright; Martiniano Leguizamón (1858–1935), in the novel \"Montaraz\"; José S. Alvarez (1858–1903, \"Fray Mocho\"), in the story \"Viaje al país de los matreros\" (\"A trip to bandit country\"); Emma de la Barra (1861–1947), who wrote under the pseudonym César Duayen, in \"Stella\"; Joaquín V. González (1863–1923), in \"Mis montañas\" (\"My Mountains\"); Julio Sánchez Gardel (1879–1937), in numerous comedies; and Manuel Gálvez (1882–1962), in such novels as \"La maestra normal\" (\"The normal school teacher\") and \"La sombra del convento\" (\"The sleep of the convent\").\n\nBolivian \"costumbristas\" include Julio Lucas Jaimes (1845–1914), Lindaura Anzoátegui de Campero (1846–98), Jaime Mendoza (1874–1938), Alcides Arguedas (1879–1946), and Armando Chirveches (1881–1926).\n\nGuatemalan novelist and historian José Milla (1822–82) wrote several \"costumbrista\" works and created the character of \"Juan Chapín\", the emblematic Guatemalan. Other Central American \"costumbristas\" are José María Peralta Lagos (1875–1944, El Salvador), Ramón Rosa (1848–93, Honduras), Carlos Alberto Uclés (1854–1942, Honduras), and a distinguished line of Costa Rican writers: Manuel de Jesús Jiménez (1854–1916), Manuel González Zeledón (1864–1936), the verse writer Aquileo Echeverría (1866–1909), and, in the 20th century, Joaquín García Monge (1881–1958).\n\n\"Costumbrismo\" enters Chilean literature in some of the writing of José Zapiola (1804–85), Vicente Pérez Rosales (1807–86), Román Fritis (1829–74), Pedro Ruiz Aldea (ca. 1833–70) and especially José Joaquín Vallejo (1811–58), who under the name \"Jotabeche\" was the supreme Chilean \"costumbrista\".\n\nStrong aspects of \"costumbrismo\" can be seen in the novels and other works of Alberto Blest Gana (1830–1920). There are many \"costumbrista\" passages in the works of Benjamín Vicuña Mackenna (1831–86) and Daniel Barros Grez(1833–1904); Román Vial (1833–1896) entitled one of his books \"Costumbres chilenas\"; Zorobabel Rodríguez (1839–1901), Moisés Vargas (1843–98), Arturo Givovich (1855–1905), Daniel Riquelme (1854–1912), Senén Palacios (1858–1927), Egidio Poblete (1868–1940) all wrote in the mode at times. \"Costumbrismo\" figures particularly heavily in stage comedies: \"El patio de los Tribunales\" (\"The courtyard of the tribunals [of justice]\", by Valentín Murillo (1841–1896); \"Don Lucas Gómez\", by Mateo Martínez Quevedo (1848–1923); \"Chincol en sartén\" (\"A sparrow in the pan\") and \"En la puerta del horno\" (\"In the gate of horn\"), by Antonio Espiñeira (1855–1907); \"La canción rota\" (\"The broken song\"), by Antonio Acevedo Hernández (1886–1962); \"Pueblecito\" (\"Little town\") by Armando Moock (1894–1942). In prose, \"costumbrismo\" mixes eventually into realism, with Manuel J. Ortiz (1870–1945) and Joaquín Díaz García (1877–1921) as important realists with \"costumbrista\" aspects.\n\nColombia can claim one of the earliest antecedents to the \"costumbrismo\" in \"El Carnero\" (written 1636–38, but not published until 1859) by Juan Rodríguez Freile (1566–1638 or 1640), Rodríguez's work begins as a chronicle of the conquest of New Granada, but as it approaches his own time it becomes more and more detailed and quotidian, and its second half is a series of narratives that, according to Stephen M. Hart, give \"lip service\" to conventional morality while taking \"a keen delight in recounting the various skullduggeries of witches, rogues, murderers, whores, outlaws, priests and judges.\"\n\nColombia can also claim a particularly rich tradition of \"costumbrismo\" in the 19th century and into the 20th: José Manuel Groot (1800–78); novelists Eugenio Díaz (1803–65), José Manuel Marroquín (1827–1908), and José María Vergara y Vergara (1831–72), all of whom collaborated on the magazine \"El Mosaico, la revista bogotana del costumbrismo\" (1858–71); Luis Segundo Silvestre (1838–87); and Jorge Isaacs (1837–95), whose sole novel \"María\" was praised by Alfonso M. Escudero as the greatest Spanish-language romantic novel.\n\nOther Colombian \"costumbristas\" are José Caycedo Rojas (1816–1897), Juan de Dios Restrepo (1823–94), Gregorio Gutiérrez González (1826–72), Ricardo Carrasquilla (1827–86), Camilo A. Echeverri (1827–87), Manuel Pombo (1827–98), José David Guarín (1830–90), Ricardo Silva (1836–87), José María Cordovez Moure (1835–1918), Rafael María Camargo (1858–1926; wrote under the pseudonym Fermín de Pimentel y Vargas), and Tomás Carrasquilla (1858–1940).\n\nCuba's leading \"costumbristas\" were Gaspar Betancourt Cisneros (1803–66, known as \"El Lugareño\"), Cirilo Villaverde (1812–94), and José María de Cárdenas y Rodríguez (1812–82). The patrician Betancourt published a series of \"Escenas cotidianas que abren camino al costumbrismo en Cuba\" (\"Day-to-day scenes that open a road to \"costumbrismo\" in Cuba, 1838–40). His work focused often on what he found vulgar or ridiculous about Cuban life, but was written with a fatherly affection. Villaverde, probably Cuba's greatest \"costumbrista\", wrote romantic novels, most notably \"Cecilia Valdés\" (the first part of which was published in 1839, although the definitive version was not published until 1882). This \"costumbrista\" anti-slavery novel can be seen as an early realist work, and continues to be read in recent times. Villaverde also wrote the prologue for Cárdenas's 1847 collection of \"costumbrista\"articles.\nJosé Victoriano Betancourt (1813–75) was patron to many intellectuals in 1860s Havana; he later went into exile in Mexico. He is best remembered today as a \"costumbrista\" writer, as is another Betancourt, José Ramón Betancourt (1823–90), author of \"Una feria de caridad en 183…\" (ellipses in original title), set in Camagüey in the late 1830s.\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, Francisco Gregorio Billini (1844–94) stands out for his novel \"Baní o Engracia y Antoñita\" (1892). Still, in some ways, his vision was narrow. J. Alcántara Almánzar remarks that \"black people are practically absent as important characters, and this absence is very significant in a country whose majority is 'mulatto'.\" Blacks are more present in the \"costumbrista\" works of Cesar Nicolas Penson (1855–1901), but he is far more sympathetic to his white characters, portraying Haitians as fierce beasts.\n\nEcuadorians who wrote at least part of the time in the \"costumbrista\" mode include Pedro Fermín Cevallos (1812–93), Juan León Mera (1832–94), José Modesto Espinosa (1833–1915), Carlos R. Tobar (1854–1920), Honorato Vázquez (1855–1933), Víctor M. Rendón (1859–1940), J. Trajano Mera (1862–1919), and Luis A. Martínez (1868–1909). Another Ecuadorian was Alfredo Baquerizo Moreno (1859–1951), a novelist and later president of the country.\n\nMexican \"costumbrismo\" can claim one of the longest lineages to be found in the Americas. In the same era in which the genre was gaining an identity in Spain, José Joaquín Fernández de Lizardi (1776–1827) Mexico's first novelist (and perhaps Latin America's first novelist) wrote works that had many similar aspects, including \"Periquillo Sarniento\" (1816), recently translated into English as \"The Mangy Parrot\". Other Mexican \"costumbristas\" are Guillermo Prieto (1818–97) and José Tomás de Cuéllar (1830–94). In addition, José López Portillo y Rojas (1850–1923), Rafael Delgado (1853–1914), Ángel del Campo (1868–1908) and Emilio Rabasa (1856–1930) can be seen as \"costumbristas\", but their work can also be considered realist.\n\nParaguayan \"costumbristas\" include Teresa Lamas Carísimo de Rodríguez Alcalá (1887–1976) and Carlos Zubizarreta (1904–72).\n\nPeruvian \"costumbrismo\" begins with José Joaquín de Larriva y Ruiz (1780–1832), poeta and journalist and his younger, irreverent, Madrid-educated collaborator Felipe Pardo y Aliaga (1806–68). A more festive and comic note was struck by Manuel Ascensio Segura (1805–71). Manuel Atanasio Fuentes (1820–29) wrote verse under the name \"El Murciélago\" (\"the Bat\"), a name which he also gave to a magazine he founded.\n\nRicardo Palma (1833–1919), best known for the multi-volume \"Tradiciones peruanas\", was a man of letters, a former liberal politician and later the director of the National Library of Peru, who rebuilt the collection of that library after the War of the Pacific. He referred to his works in this mode as \"tradiciones\", rather than \"costumbrismo\".\n\nOther Peruvian \"costumbristas\" are satirist and verse writer Pedro Paz Soldán y Unanue (1839–1895), Abelardo M. Gamarra (1850–1924), and the nostalgic José Gálvez (1885–1957).\n\nIn Puerto Rico, Manuel A. Alonso (1822–89) published \"El gibaro: cuadro de costumbres de la isla de Puerto Rico\" (The \"Jíbaro\" [modern spelling]: picture of customs of the island of Puerto Rico\", 1849), Puerto Rico's most important contribution to the genre. Manuel Fernández Juncos (1846–1928), born in Asturias, Spain, emigrated at age eleven to the island and wrote \"Tipos y caracteres y Costumbres y tradiciones\" (\"Types and characters and customs and traditions\").\n\nProminent Uruguayan \"costumbristas\" include Santiago Maciel (1862–1931), Manuel Bernárdez (1867–1942), Javier de Viana (1868–1926), Adolfo Montiel Ballesteros (1888–1971), and Fernán Silva Valdés (1887–1975). Most of these writers also did significant work outside of the genre.\n\nVenezuelan \"costumbristas\" include Fermín Toro (c.1807–65), Daniel Mendoza (1823–67), Francisco de Sales Pérez (1836–1926), Nicanor Bolet Peraza (1838–1906), Francisco Tosta García (1845–1921), José María Rivas (1850–1920), Rafael Bolívar Alvarez (1860–1900), and Pedro Emilio Coll (1872–1947).\n\n"}
{"id": "40341533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40341533", "title": "Criminal appeal", "text": "Criminal appeal\n\nA criminal appeal was a procedure in English law to bring about the prosecution of an individual accused of some crime. A private individual (the \"appellor\") would accuse another (the \"appellee\") of a crime, without the need for proceedings to be brought by the crown. It possibly descended from the system of weregild.\n\nAppeals were among the legal proceedings for which trial by combat was available.\n\nAn appeal could be used to accuse a subject of high treason. It could also be used by someone when either they or a close relation had been the victim of a crime, such as murder, rape or arson.\n\nAn acquittal following an appeal prevented any further prosecution for the same offence (the doctrine of double jeopardy), just as if the proceedings had been brought by the crown (by indictment). The person bringing the appeal would be punished.\n\nUnlike crown prosecutions, if a person was convicted, the crown did not have the option of a pardon.\n\nAppeals were abolished in England following the 1817 case of Ashford v Thornton where an appeal was withdrawn following the defendant requesting a trial by battle.\n\n"}
{"id": "22185671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22185671", "title": "Dalhousie Journal of Legal Studies", "text": "Dalhousie Journal of Legal Studies\n\nThe Dalhousie Journal of Legal Studies is a non-profit, academic law journal that publishes work from current law students and recent alumni in Canada and throughout the world. It is produced by students from the Schulich School of Law (formerly Dalhousie Law School).\n\nEstablished in 1991, the Dalhousie Journal of Legal Studies is a forum that promotes reflection and debate about contemporary legal issues. As one of the only publications of its kind in Canada, the Journal serves as a unique vehicle for law students to publish their work.\n\nThe DJLS is published once per academic year and maintains a broad subscription base that includes law firms, law school libraries, corporations, government departments, alumni, and legal professionals from around the globe. The Journal is also indexed in the HeinOnline database.\n\nAn entirely student-run publication, the DJLS is managed by an editorial board, and over seventy volunteers comprising students from the Schulich School of Law at Dalhousie assist in production and publication.\n\nIt is distinct from the Dalhousie Law Journal which is a peer-reviewed journal produced by faculty, rather than students.\n"}
{"id": "26619482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26619482", "title": "Early Music (journal)", "text": "Early Music (journal)\n\nEarly Music is a peer-reviewed academic journal specialising in the study of early music. It was established in 1973 and is published quarterly by Oxford University Press. The co-editors are Helen Deeming, Alan Howard and Stephen Rose.\n"}
{"id": "39983210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39983210", "title": "Emma L. E. Rees", "text": "Emma L. E. Rees\n\nEmma L. E. Rees is A Professor in the Department of English at the University of Chester.\n\nDr. Emma L. E. Rees is Senior Lecturer in English at the University of Chester, focusing on the early modern period, and on literature and film. Rees has written extensively on gender studies and representation, contributing chapters to a number of acclaimed academic works, including: \"The Female Body in Medicine and Literature\" (2011), \"'The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo' and Philosophy\" (2011), \"Studying English Literature\" (2009), and \"Led Zeppelin and Philosophy\" (2009). Rees is author of the entry on 'Sexual Politics' for \"The Encyclopaedia of Sex and Society\" (2010).\n\nRees' latest work is \"The Vagina: A Literary and Cultural History\", published by Bloomsbury (August 2013). Reviewing the book in British daily newspaper \"The Independent\", Kaite Welsh began by saying, \"For readers disappointed by Naomi Wolf's treatise on a similar topic last year, this is the book you’ve been waiting for. If Wolf's book was billed as \"Vagina: A New Biography\", this could be subtitled \"A New Bibliography\". An enjoyable romp through depictions of female genitalia from oral history to adverts, Rees examines the changing role of the cultural vagina.\" Welsh found that, \"Although Rees is an academic by trade, the book gleefully mixes highbrow and lowbrow, from Chaucer to 21st-century horror\", adding that, \"If the book has a flaw, it is that it's mis-titled in the same way that Eve Ensler's Monologues were. This is a book more about the vulva itself than simply the vagina – labia and clitoris get their fair share of attention – but Rees acknowledges the sensationalist desire to talk simply about the part that gets penetrated and the way this obscures women's sexual desire. Would \"The Vulva Monologues\" have garnered quite that much attention?\" She concluded her review by writing, \"Rees lacks Wolf's sometimes po-faced anger, instead mixing her feminist outrage with a healthy dose of humour. Ever the cunning linguist, she leaves no pun unmade, but doesn’t skimp on the theory either, the perfect antidote for those feminists who find too much of the terminology dry and academic. This may not be the definitive text on the vagina – Rees is clear that she can't overturn centuries of embarrassment and taboo in a single book – but it's an excellent place to start.\"\n\nEmma Rees is on the editorial board for the \"Gender Forum Journal\", part of \"The Journal of Feminist Studies\", and is also on the board for the Australian interdisciplinary gender, sexuality, and diversity studies journal, \"Writing From Below\". Rees is a reviewer for English, the \"Journal of the English Association\"; for Psychology and Sexuality; for the \"GEA Journal\" (Gender and Education Association); for \"Women's Studies Quarterly\" and for \"\" and has contributed pieces for \"Times Higher Education\".\n\nShe is an individual affiliate of the Gender and Education Association (GEA), and affiliated to the International Association for the Study of Sexuality, Culture and Society (IASSCS).\n\nEmma Rees specialises in Renaissance literature, and in representations of mental illness in literature and on film. Her research and teaching interests also include Shakespeare studies; early modern literature and culture; film theory (especially screen adaptations of literary texts), and gender studies.\n\n\nRichard E. Wilson and Emma L. E. Rees, ‘Sometimes a Guitar is Just a Guitar: Freudian Fetishism in the lyrics of Led Zeppelin’, in Led Zeppelin and Philosophy, ed. Scott Calef (Chicago: Open Court, 2009).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27303774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27303774", "title": "Environmental, social and corporate governance", "text": "Environmental, social and corporate governance\n\nEnvironmental, social and governance (ESG) refers to the three central factors in measuring the sustainability and ethical impact of an investment in a company or business.\n\nThese criteria help to better determine the future financial performance of companies (return and risk).\n\nHistorical decisions of where financial assets would be placed were based on various criteria, financial return being predominant. However, there have always been plenty of other criteria for deciding where to place your money – from Political considerations to Heavenly Reward. It was in the 1950s and 60s that the vast pension funds managed by the Trades Unions recognised the opportunity to affect the wider social environment using their capital assets - in the United States the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers invested their considerable capital in developing affordable housing projects, whilst the United Mine Workers invested in health facilities.\n\nIn the 1970s, the worldwide abhorrence of the apartheid regime in South Africa led to one of the most renowned examples of selective disinvestment along ethical lines. As a response to a growing call for sanctions against the regime, the Reverend Leon Sullivan, a board member of General Motors in the United States, drew up a Code of Conduct in 1971 for practising business with South Africa. What became known as the Sullivan Principles attracted a great deal of attention and several reports were commissioned by the government, to examine how many US companies were investing in South African companies that were contravening the Sullivan Code. The conclusions of the reports led to a mass disinvestment by the US from many South African companies. The resulting pressure applied to the South African regime by its business community added great weight to the growing impetus for the system of apartheid to be abandoned.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Milton Friedman, in direct response to the prevailing mood of philanthropy argued that social responsibility adversely affects a firm's financial performance and that regulation and interference from \"big government\" will always damage the macro economy. His contention that the valuation of a company or asset should be predicated almost exclusively on the pure bottom line (with the costs incurred by social responsibility being deemed non-essential), underwrote the belief prevalent for most of the 20th century. Towards the end of the century however a contrary theory began to gain ground. In 1988 James S. Coleman wrote an article in the American Journal of Sociology entitled \"Social Capital in the Creation of Human Capital\", the article challenged the dominance of the concept of ‘self-interest’ in economics and introduced the concept of social capital into the measurement of value.\n\nThere was a new form of pressure applied, acting in a coalition with environmental groups, it used the leveraging power of its collective investors to encourage companies and capital markets to incorporate environmental and social challenges into their day-to-day decision-making. The Ceres coalition today represents one of the world's strongest investment groups with over 60 institutional investors from the U.S. and Europe managing over $4 trillion in assets.\n\nAlthough the concept of selective investment was not a new one with the demand side of the investment market having a long history of those wishing to control the effects of their investments, what began to develop at the turn of the 21st century was a response from the supply-side of the equation. The investment market began to pick up on the growing need for products geared towards what was becoming known as the Responsible Investor. In 1998 John Elkington, co-founder of the business consultancy SustainAbility, published \"Cannibals with Forks: the Triple Bottom Line of 21st Century Business\" in which he identified the newly emerging cluster of non financial considerations which should be included in the factors determining a company or equity's value. He coined the phrase the \"triple bottom line\", referring to the financial, environmental and social factors included in the new calculation. At the same time the strict division between the environmental sector and the financial sector began to break down. In the City of London in 2002, Chris Yates-Smith a member of the international panel chosen to oversee the technical construction, accreditation and distribution of the Organic Production Standard and founder of one if the City of London's leading Branding Consultancies, established one of the first environmental finance research groups. The informal group of financial leaders, city lawyers and environmental stewardship NGOs became known as \"The Virtuous Circle\", its brief was to examine the nature of the correlation between environmental and social standards and financial performance. Several of the world's big banks and investment houses began to respond to the growing interest in the ESG investment market with the provision of sell-side services, among the first were the Brazilian bank Unibanco, and Mike Tyrell's Jupiter Fund in London which used ESG based research to provide both HSBC and Citicorp with selective investment services in 2001.\n\nIn the early years of the new millennium, the major part of the investment market still accepted the historical assumption that ethically directed investments were by their nature likely to reduce financial return. Philanthropy was not known to be a highly profitable business and Friedman had provided a widely accepted academic basis for the argument that the costs of behaving in an ethically responsible manner would outweigh the benefits. However the assumptions were beginning to be fundamentally challenged. In 1998 two journalists Robert Levering and Milton Moskowitz had brought out the \"Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For\", initially a listing in the magazine \"Fortune\", then a book compiling a list of the best practicing companies in the United States with regard to corporate social responsibility and how their financial performance fared as a result. Of the three areas of concern that ESG represented, the environmental and social had received most of the public and media attention, not least because of the growing fears concerning climate change. Moskowitz brought the spotlight onto the corporate governance aspect of responsible investment. His analysis concerned how the companies were managed, what the stockholder relationships were and how the employees were treated. He argued that improving corporate governance procedures did not damage financial performance, on the contrary it maximised productivity, ensured corporate efficiency and led to the sourcing and utilising of superior management talents. In the early 2000s, the success of Moskowitz's list and its impact on company's ease of recruitment and brand reputation began to challenge the historical assumptions regarding the financial effect of ESG factors. In 2011, Alex Edmans, a finance professor at Wharton, published a paper in the \"Journal of Financial Economics\" showing that the 100 Best Companies to Work For outperformed their peers in terms of stock returns by 2-3% a year over 1984-2009, and delivered earnings that systematically exceeded analyst expectations.\n\nIn 2005, the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative commissioned a report from the international law firm Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer on the interpretation of the law with respect to investors and ESG issues. The Freshfields report concluded that not only was it permissible for investment companies to integrate ESG issues into investment analysis but it was arguably part of their fiduciary duty to do so. In 2014, the Law Commission (England and Wales) confirmed that there was no bar on pension trustees and others from taking account of ESG factors when making investment decisions.\n\nWhere Friedman had provided the academic support for the argument that the integration of ESG type factors into financial practice would reduce financial performance, numerous reports began to appear in the early years of the century which provided research that supported arguments to the contrary. In 2006 Oxford University's Michael Barnett and New York University's Robert Salomon published an influential study which concluded that the two sides of the argument might even be complementary – they propounded a curvilinear relationship between social responsibility and financial performance, both selective investment practices and non-selective could maximise financial performance of an investment portfolio, the only route likely to damage performance was a middle way of selective investment. Besides the large investment companies and banks taking an interest in matters ESG, an array of investment companies specifically dealing with responsible investment and ESG based portfolios began to spring up throughout the financial world.\n\nMany in the investment industry believe the development of ESG factors as considerations in investment analysis to be inevitable. The evidence toward a relationship between consideration for ESG issues and financial performance is becoming greater and the combination of fiduciary duty and a wide recognition of the necessity of the sustainability of investments in the long term has meant that environmental social and corporate governance concerns are now becoming increasingly important in the investment market. ESG has become less a question of philanthropy than practicality.\n\nThere has been uncertainty and debate as to what to call the inclusion of intangible factors relating to the sustainability and ethical impact of investments. Names have ranged from the early use of buzz words such as \"green\" and \"eco\", to the wide array of possible descriptions for the types of investment analysis - \"responsible investment\", \"socially responsible investment\" (SRI), \"ethical\", \"extra-financial\", \"long horizon investment\" (LHI), \"enhanced business\", \"corporate health\", \"non-traditional\", and others. But the predominance of the term ESG has now become fairly widely accepted. A survey of 350 global investment professionals conducted by AXA Investment Managers and AQ Research in 2008 concluded the vast majority of professionals preferred the term ESG to describe such data.\n\nInterest in ESG and sustainable investing runs strong for plan participants, according to Natixis' 2016 Survey of Defined Contribution Plan Participants2. In fact, more than six in ten participants agreed they would be more likely to contribute or increase their contributions to their retirement plan if they knew their investments were doing social good.\n\nIn January 2016, the PRI, UNEP FI and The Generation Foundation launched a three-year project to end the debate on whether fiduciary duty is a legitimate barrier to the integration of environmental, social and governance issues in investment practice and decision-making.\n\nThis follows the publication in September 2015 of \"Fiduciary Duty in the 21st Century\" by the PRI, UNEP FI, UNEP Inquiry and UN Global Compact. The report concluded that “Failing to consider all long-term investment value drivers, including ESG issues, is a failure of fiduciary duty\". It also acknowledged that despite significant progress, many investors have yet to fully integrate ESG issues into their investment decision-making processes.\n\nThreat of climate change and the depletion of resources has grown, so investors have to factor sustainability issues into their investment choices. The issues often represent externalities, such as influences on the functioning and revenues of the company that are not exclusively affected by market mechanisms. As with all areas of ESG the breadth of possible concerns is vast, but some of the chief areas are listed below:\n\nThe body of research providing evidence of global trends in climate change has led investors – pension funds, holders of insurance reserves – to begin to screen investments in terms of their impact on the perceived factors of climate change. Fossil fuel reliant industries are less attractive. In the UK, investment policies were particularly affected by the conclusions of the \"Stern Review\" in 2006, a report commissioned by the British government to provide an economic analysis of the issues associated with climate change. Its conclusions pointed towards the necessity of including considerations of climate change and environmental issues in all financial calculations and that the benefits of early action on climate change would outweigh its costs.\n\nResponsible Investing often chose to deselect firms associated with the construction of nuclear power plants. The dual concerns of the speed of depletion of fossil fuels and CO emissions have led to a re-examination of the concerns regarding nuclear power .\n\nIn every area of the debate from the depletion of resources to the future of industries dependent upon diminishing raw materials the question of the obsolescence of a company's product or service is becoming central to the value ascribed to that company. The Long Term view is becoming prevalent amongst investors.\n\nThe level of inclusion in a company's recruitment policies is becoming a key concern to investors. There is a growing perception that the broader the pool of talent open to an employer the greater the chance of finding the optimum person for the job. Innovation and agility are seen as the great benefits of diversity and there is an increasing awareness of what has come to be known as ‘the power of difference’.\n\nIn 2006 the US Courts of Appeals ruled that there was a case to answer bringing the area of a company's social responsibilities squarely into the financial arena. This area of concern is widening to include such considerations as the impact on local communities, the health and welfare of employees and a more thorough examination of a company's supply chain.\n\nUntil fairly recently, caveat emptor (\"buyer beware\") was the governing principle of commerce and trading. In recent times however there has been an increased assumption that the consumer has a right to a degree of protection and the vast growth in damages litigation has meant that consumer protection is a central consideration for those seeking to limit a company's risk and those examining a company's credentials with an eye to investing. The collapse of the US Sub-Prime Mortgage market initiated a growing movement against predatory lending has also become an important area of concern.\n\nFrom the testing of products on animals to the welfare of animals bred for the food market, concern about the welfare of animals is a large consideration for those investors seeking a thorough understanding of the company or industry being analyzed.\n\nCorporate governance covers the area of investigation into the rights and responsibilities of the management of a company – its board, shareholders and the various stakeholders in that company.\n\nThe system of internal procedures and controls that makes up the management structure of a company is in the valuation of that company's equity. Attention has been focused in recent years on the balance of power between the CEO and the Board of Directors and specifically the differences between the European model and the US model – in the States studies have found that 80% of companies have a CEO who is also the Chairman of the Board, in the UK and the European model it was found that 90% of the largest companies split the roles of CEO and Chairman.\n\nFrom diversity to the establishment of corporate behaviours and values, the role that improving employee relations plays in assessing the value of a company is proving increasingly central. In the United States Moskowitz's list of the \"Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For\" has become not only an important tool for employees but companies are beginning to compete keenly for a place on the list, as not only does it help to recruit the best workforce, it appears to have a noticeable impact on company values.\n\nCompanies are now being asked to list the percentage levels of bonus payments and the levels of remuneration of the highest paid executives are coming under close scrutiny from stock holders and equity investors alike.\n\nThe three concepts of social, environmental and corporate governance are intimately linked to the concept of Responsible Investment. RI began as a niche investment area, serving the needs of those who wished to invest but wanted to do so within ethically defined parameters. In recent years it has become a much larger proportion of the investment market.\n\nRI seeks to control the placing of its investments via several methods:\n\nOne of the defining marks of the modern investment market is the divergence in the relationship between the firm and its equity investors. Institutional investors have become the key owners of stock - rising from 35% in 1981 to 58% in 2002 in the US and from 42% in 1963 to 84.7% in 2004 in the UK and institutions tend to work on a long term investment strategy. Insurance companies, Mutual Funds and Pension Funds with long-term payout obligations are much more interested in the long term sustainability of their investments than the individual investor looking for short-term gain. Where a Pension Fund is subject to ERISA, there are legal limitations on the extent to which investment decisions can be based on factors other than maximizing plan participants' economic returns.\n\nBased on the belief that addressing ESG issues will protect and enhance portfolio returns, responsible investment is rapidly becoming a mainstream concern within the institutional industry. By late 2016, over a third of institutional investors (commonly referred to as LPs) based in Europe and Asia-Pacific said that ESG considerations played a major or primary role in refusing to commit to a private equity fund, while the same is true for a fifth of North American LPs. In reaction to investor interest in ESG, private equity and other industry trade associations have developed a number of ESG best practices, including a due diligence questionnaire for private fund managers and other asset managers to use before investing in a portfolio company. \n\nThe Principles for Responsible Investment Initiative (PRI) was established in 2005 by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative and the UN Global Compact as a framework for improving the analysis of ESG issues in the investment process and to aid companies in the exercise of responsible ownership practices. As of 2015 there were a total of 1354 PRI signatories, consisting of 288 asset owners, 882 investment managers and 184 professional service partners.\n\nThe Equator Principles is a risk management framework, adopted by financial institutions, for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in project finance. It is primarily intended to provide a minimum standard for due diligence to support responsible risk decision-making. As of 6 March 2017, 92 adopting financial institutions in 37 countries have officially adopted the Equator Principles, covering the majority of international Project Finance debt in emerging and developed markets. Equator Principles Financial Institutions (EPFIs) commit to not provide loans to projects where the borrower will not or is unable to comply with their respective social and environmental policies and procedures.\n\nThe Equator Principles, formally launched in Washington DC on 4 June 2003, were based on existing environmental and social policy frameworks established by the International Finance Corporation. These standards have subsequently been periodically updated into what is commonly known as the International Finance Corporation Performance Standards on social and environmental sustainability and on the World Bank Group Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines.\n\nAsset managers and other financial institutions increasingly rely on ESG ratings agencies to assess, measure and compare companies' ESG performance.\n\nThe first ten years of the new century has seen a vast growth in the ESG defined investment market. Not only do most of the world's big banks now have departments and divisions exclusively addressing Responsible Investment but boutique firms specialising in advising and consulting on environmental, social and governance related investments are proliferating. One of the major aspects of the ESG side of the insurance market which leads to this tendency to proliferation is the essentially subjective nature of the information on which investment selection can be made. By definition ESG data is qualitative; it is non-financial and not readily quantifiable in monetary terms. The investment market has long dealt with these intangibles – such variables as Goodwill have been widely accepted as contributing to a company's value. But the ESG intangibles are not only highly subjective they are also particularly difficult to quantify and more importantly verify.\n\nOne of the major issues in the ESG area is disclosure. Environmental risks created by business activities have actual or potential negative impact on air, land, water, ecosystems, and human health . The information on which an investor makes his decisions on a financial level is fairly simply gathered. The company's accounts can be examined, and although the accounting practices of corporate business are coming increasingly into disrepute after a spate of recent financial scandals, the figures are for the most part externally verifiable. With ESG considerations, the practice has been for the company under examination to provide its own figures and disclosures. These have seldom been externally verified and the lack of universal standards and regulation in the areas of environmental and social practice mean that the measurement of such statistics is subjective to say the least. As integrating ESG considerations into investment analysis and the calculation of a company's value become more prevalent it will become more crucial to provide units of measurement for investment decisions on subjective issues such as degrees of harm to workers, or how far down the supply chain of the production chain of a cluster bomb do you go.\n\nOne of the solutions put forward to the inherent subjectivity of ESG data is the provision of universally accepted standards for the measurement of ESG factors. Such organisations as the ISO (International Organisation for Standardisation) provide highly researched and widely accepted standards for many of the areas covered. Some investment consultancies, such as Probus-Sigma have created methodologies for calculating the ratings for an ESG based Ratings Index that is both based on ISO standards and externally verified, but the formalisation of the acceptance of such standards as the basis for calculating and verifying ESG disclosures is by no means universal.\n\nThe corporate governance side of the matter has received rather more in the way of regulation and standardisation as there is a longer history of regulation in this area. In 1992 the London Stock Exchange and the Financial Reporting Commission set up the Cadbury Commission to investigate the series of governance failures that had plagued the City of London such as the bankruptcies of BCCI, Polly Peck, and Robert Maxwell's Mirror Group. The conclusions that the commission reached were compiled in 2003 into the \"Combined Code on Corporate Governance\" which has been widely accepted (if patchily applied) by the financial world as a benchmark for good governance practices.\n\nOne of the key areas of concern in the discussion as to the reliability of ESG disclosures is the establishment of credible ratings for companies as to ESG performance. The world's financial markets have all leapt to provide ESG relevant ratings indexes, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the FTSE4Good Index (which is co-owned by the London Stock Exchange and Financial Times), Bloomberg ESG data, the MSCI ESG Indices and the GRESB benchmarks \n\nThere is some movement in the insurance market to find a reliable index of ratings for ESG issues, with some suggesting that the future lies in the construction of algorithms for calculating ESG ratings based on ISO standards and third party verification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23389559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23389559", "title": "Fancy Nancy", "text": "Fancy Nancy\n\nFancy Nancy is a 2005 children's picture book written by Jane O'Connor and illustrated by Robin Preiss Glasser. The book spent nearly 100 weeks on the New York Times Best Seller list, launching a series that now numbers upwards of 80 books, selling 30 million volumes. \"Fancy Nancy\" has been on Publishers Weekly's bestseller list for picture books, was a Children's Book-of-the-Month Club selection and a Junior Library Guild Selection. It also won a \"Borders 2006 Original Voices\" award and has been translated into 20 languages, including Hungarian and Hebrew. In April 2012, Nancy was featured in her first chapter book, \"Nancy Clancy: Super Sleuth\". Books in the \"Fancy Nancy\" series have now spent 330 weeks on the New York Times Best Seller list, and in the fall of 2012, \"Fancy Nancy the Musical\" was produced by Vital Theatre Company in New York City.\n\nFancy Nancy is a young girl with a larger than life personality, who adores all things fancy. She always dresses extravagantly, wearing boas, tutus, ruby slippers, fairy wings, and fuzzy slippers. Nancy loves using big fancy words such as \"iridescent\", \"ecstatic\", and \"extraordinary\" and anything in French. She has redecorated her bedroom with everyday items, such as feather boas, Christmas lights, paper flowers, and hats. Her favorite doll is named Marabelle Lavinia Chandelier.\n\nIn Nancy's opinion, her family is ordinary and dresses rather plainly, so Nancy decides to hold a class in the art of fanciness for her family. They oblige, and Nancy helps to dress them in bows, ornaments, top hats, and gaudy scarves. \"Ooo-la-la!\" Nancy cries in delight. \"My family is posh! That's a fancy word for fancy.\"\n\nJane O'Connor is vice-president and editor-at-large for Penguin Books for Young Readers! She has written more than thirty children's books. Her first adult novel, \"Dangerous Admissions: Secrets of a Closet Sleuth\" came out in July 2007.\n\nO'Connor came up with Fancy Nancy on a summer evening. As she describes it, \"It was after dinner one evening that the title just came to me,\" she recalls. \"I sat down and wrote the first and last paragraphs. The rest of the story took me awhile, but the beginning and the end just flew into my head.\" O'Connor is quick to point out that much of the book's success is Glasser's artwork. She wrote the book in 2002, but it did not come out until 2005, because her editor, Margaret Anastas, insisted on Glasser as the illustrator who was busy with other projects.\n\nIn 2013 Glasser was named 2013 Illustrator of the Year by the Children's Book Council for \"Fancy Nancy and the Mermaid Ballet\" after more than 1 million young people cast their votes in the 6th annual Children's Choice Book Awards.\n\n\"Fancy Nancy\" has spawned a line of toys and games focusing on dress-up and role play targeted towards preschoolers and children aged 5 to 7. In addition, the Fancy Nancy brand includes licenses for clothing, paper party goods, crafts, and more. Numerous bookstores and libraries around the United States have hosted events including readings by both Jane O'Connor and Robin Preiss Glasser, costume contests, “Fancy Nancy” days and tea parties.\n\nA Fancy Nancy game called \"Fancy Nancy: Tea Party Time!\" for the Nintendo DS systems was released on September 14, 2010.\n\nThere are three Fancy Nancy apps for the iPad and iPhone: Fancy Nancy Dress Up, Fancy Nancy Explorer Extraordinaire, and Fancy Nancy Ballet School.\n\nIn 2012, 20th Century Fox and 21 Laps Entertainment announced a live-action version of Fancy Nancy book series. Tina Fey and Shawn Levy are the production team.\n\nIn March 2015, Disney Junior announced that an animated television movie and TV series of \"Fancy Nancy\" were both in the works. The series premiered on July 13, 2018.\n\nIn 2012, \"Fancy Nancy the Musical\" was produced Off-Broadway by Vital Theatre Company. The musical is mainly based on \"Fancy Nancy and the Mermaid Ballet\", with book and lyrics by Susan DiLallo and music and lyrics by Danny Abosch. The Original Off-Broadway Cast Recording of \"Fancy Nancy the Musical\" was released on Ghostlight Records in 2013.\n\nIn 2014 \"\" was produced Off-Broadway by Vital Theatre Company, Inc.. The musical, based on the book of the same title, has a book by Cara Lustik, music by Randy Klein and lyrics by Matthew Hardy. The Original Off-Broadway cast album was released in 2015 and is available from Jazzhead Records. The production was performed in New York City and on tour during 2015 and 2016.\n\nInitially, O'Connor and Glasser signed a contract for two books with HarperCollins, but after the success of the first book, they later signed to do 13 additional Fancy Nancy titles across a variety of formats. Since then, they've collaborated on 80 titles.\n\n"}
{"id": "35672402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35672402", "title": "Ferdinand Wolf", "text": "Ferdinand Wolf\n\nFerdinand Wolf (8 December 1796, Vienna – 18 February 1866, Vienna) was a romanist from Austria. He was an author of literary studies as well as a publisher of periodicals, including the \"Jahrbuch für Romanische und Englische Literatur\".\n\nWolf studied philosophy and law at the University of Graz, and then literature at the University of Vienna. In 1819, after graduation, he became a scrivener at the kaiserlichen Hofbibliothek, now the Austrian National Library, and was later promoted to research fellow. He was succeeded in this office by his son Adolf. In 1847, Wolf was involved with the foundation of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, which he served as secretary. He is buried in Vienna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3424303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3424303", "title": "Four-step impact assessment", "text": "Four-step impact assessment\n\nThe Four-Step Impact Assessment is an academic framework initiated and published by Jonathan Mann and colleagues at the François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights at the Harvard School of Public Health. The assessment takes into account the negotiation of objectives between human rights and public health. Such an approach takes into account a measure of each discipline's respective overlap to expose infringement of goals. Such infringement or confluence can be mapped out in what Mann and colleagues proposed in a 2 by 2 table, as illustrated below.\n\nThe Four-Step Impact Assessment:\n\n\nAs a way to visualize the intersection of both health and human rights, this table places Human Rights Quality on the Y-axis, and Public Health Quality on the X-axis. The levels or rank of both measures are graphically displayed at some point in the cartesian plane. The organizations that jointly supported this framework consisted of Mann’s Francois Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights, the International Federation of Red Cross, and Red Crescent Societies.\n\nMann was a central advocate of combining the synergistic forces of public health, ethics and human rights. He theorized and actively promoted the idea that human health and human rights are integrally and inextricably connected, arguing that these fields overlap in their respective philosophies and objectives to improve health, well-being, and to prevent premature death.\n\nIn his work, Mann proposed a three-pronged approach that has appropriately acted as a fundamental explanation of the relationship between health and human rights. First, health is a human rights issue. Secondly (and conversely), human rights are a health issue. Human rights violations result in adverse health effects. Thirdly, linkages exist between health and human rights (a hypothesis to be rigorously tested). Literature substantiates the effects of the first two points, but Mann and colleagues proceeded to call for the validation of the third point and challenged the world to practice it. With this framework, Mann attempted to bridge a perceived gap of philosophies, correspondence and vocabulary, education and training, recruitment, and work methods between the disciplines of bioethics, jurisprudence, public health law and epidemiology. Furthermore, Mann knew that the history of “conflictual relationships” between officials of public health and civil liberties workers presented challenges to the pursuit of what he called a “powerful” confluence of health and human rights – a positive approach.4 While conflict between disciplines exists, Mann thought it important to first raise awareness of these challenges. In the spirit of negotiation and acting as mediator, Mann pointed out that such an intersection of fields can only benefit if a common ground in philosophies is uncovered and planted with a flag of cooperation.\n\n"}
{"id": "34268231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34268231", "title": "Georgian calligraphy", "text": "Georgian calligraphy\n\nGeorgian calligraphy ( ) is a form of calligraphy, or artistic writing of the Georgian language using its three Georgian scripts.\n\nGeorgia has a centuries-old tradition of a calligraphic school. Hand-written books from the early centuries became a cultural and a national phenomenon in Georgia. Christianity had played an enormous role in Georgian literature life since the Georgian Orthodox Church and its monks contributed their life to the Georgian writing by creating manuscripts and all the historical records for the Georgian nation.\n\nEvery year on April 14, Georgia celebrates the \"Day of Georgian language\". On this day the calligraphy contests are held, the winners are named and awards are given to the best calligraphers at the Georgian National Center of Manuscripts.\n\nGeorgian calligraphy was actively created outside Georgia as well.\n\nGeorgians created calligraphical, religious and scholar works in the following places:\n\nWithin Georgia, the Kingdom of Tao-Klarjeti being the cultural center of the country had produced the most excellent masters of the Georgian calligraphy, art, literature and architecture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1455698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1455698", "title": "Hot foot powder", "text": "Hot foot powder\n\nHot foot powder is used in African American hoodoo folk magic to drive unwanted people away. It is a mixture of herbs and minerals, virtually always including chilli powder, salt, pepper and chilli flakes. Other ingredients, such as wasp's nests, sulfur, and graveyard dirt are sometimes added.\n\nIt shares certain common uses with the Mexican sal negra or \"black salt.\" It also shows some overlapping uses with 'goofer dust', which also is known to create restlessness and drive people away.\n\nHarry M. Hyatt collected several recipes and spells for hot foot powder. Some modes of deploying hot foot collected by him include secreting a small amount into the victim's shoes or clothing, mixing it with a victim's foottrack, or placing a paper with the victim's name into a bottle with hot foot powder and disposing of it in a river.\n\nIn the 1930s song Hell Hound on My Trail, the famous blues musician Robert Johnson said, \"You sprinkled hot foot powder [...] all around your daddy's door / it keep me with ramblin' mind, rider, every old place I go.\" In 2000, the British rock guitarist Peter Green released a CD called \"Hot Foot Powder,\" containing 13 covers of songs written by Robert Johnson.\n"}
{"id": "10917601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10917601", "title": "Hypotaxis", "text": "Hypotaxis\n\nHypotaxis is the grammatical arrangement of functionally similar but \"unequal\" constructs (from Greek \"hypo-\" \"beneath\", and \"taxis\" \"arrangement\"), i.e., certain constructs have more importance than others inside a sentence.\n\nA common example of syntactic expression of hypotaxis is the subordination of one syntactic unit to another in a complex sentence. Another example is observed in premodification. In the phrase \"inexpensive composite materials\", \"composite\" modifies \"materials\" while \"inexpensive\" modifies the complex head \"composite materials\", rather than \"composite\" or \"materials\". In this example the phrase units are hierarchically structured, rather than being on the same level, as compared to the example \"Cockroaches love warm, damp, dark places.\" Notice the syntactic difference; hypotactic modifiers cannot be separated by commas.\n\nA classical example of verbal hypotaxis is the blandly mocking Greek response King Leonidas I reportedly made to the Persian messengers at Thermopylae, \"Molon labe\" (i.e., \"Having come, take!\").\n\nKeats's \"Ode to a Nightingale\" has an example of hypotaxis in the second stanza: \"O, for a draught of vintage! That hath been/ Cool'd a long age in the deep-delved earth, / Tasting of Flora and the country green\" (1. 11–13). The \"draught of vintage\" is modified by the clauses in the successive lines.\n\nIn Blake's poem \"The Clod and the Pebble\", the phrase \"So sang a little Clod of Clay,/ Trodden with the cattle's feet\" (l. 5–6) is an example of hypotaxis; line 6 modifies the \"Clod of Clay\" in line 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "14478375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14478375", "title": "Indigenous intellectual property", "text": "Indigenous intellectual property\n\nIndigenous intellectual property is an umbrella legal term used in national and international forums to identify indigenous peoples' claims of intellectual property rights to protect specific cultural knowledge of their groups.\n\nIt is a concept that has developed out of predominantly western concepts of intellectual property law, and has most recently been promoted by the World Intellectual Property Organization, as part of a more general United Nations push to see the world's indigenous, intangible cultural heritage better valued and better protected against perceived, ongoing mistreatment.\n\nNation states across the world have experienced difficulties reconciling local indigenous laws and cultural norms with a predominantly western legal system, in many cases leaving indigenous peoples' individual and communal intellectual property rights largely unprotected. Therefore, international bodies such as the United Nations have become involved in the issue, making more specific declarations that intellectual property also includes cultural property such as historical sites, artefacts, designs, ceremonies, and performing arts in addition to artwork and literature.\n\nWhile a number of Native American and First Nations communities have issued tribal declarations over the past 35 years, in the lead up to and during the United Nations International Year for the World's Indigenous Peoples (1993) then during the following United Nations Decade of the World's Indigenous Peoples (1995–2004) a number of conferences of both indigenous and non-indigenous specialists were held in different parts of the world, resulting in a number of unified declarations and statements identifying, explaining, refining, and defining 'indigenous intellectual property'.\n\nBefore ceremonies and ceremonial knowledge were affirmed as protected intellectual property by the U.N. General Assembly, smaller coalitions of Indigenous cultural leaders met to issue declarations about protection of ceremonial knowledge. In 1980, spiritual leaders of the Northern Cheyenne, Navajo, Hopi, Muskogee, Chippewa-Cree, Haudenosaunee and Lakota Nations met on the Northern Cheyenne Reservation in Montana, and issued a resolution that:\n\"These [non-Native] individuals are gathering non-Indian people as followers who believe they are receiving instructions of the original people. We, the Elders and our representatives sitting in Council, give warning to these non-Indian followers that it is our understanding this is not a proper process, that the authority to carry these sacred objects is given by the people...\"\n\nThe first international congress of the International Society of Ethnobiology involving anthropologists, biologists, chemists, sociologists, and indigenous peoples met at Belem, Brazil. They identified themselves collectively as 'ethnobiologists', and announced that (amongst other matters) since \"Indigenous cultures around the world are being disrupted and destroyed.\":\n\"Mechanisms [ought to] be established by which indigenous specialists are recognized as proper Authorities and are consulted in all programs affecting them, their resources and their environment\"\n\"\"Procedures must be developed to compensate native peoples for the utilization of their knowledge and their biological resources\"\"\n\nThe Kari-Oca Declaration and charter was first affirmed in Brazil in May 1992, and then re-affirmed in Indonesia, in June 2002. Ratifying the document were Indigenous peoples from the Americas, Asia, Africa, Australia, Europe and the Pacific who, at Kari-Oca Villages, united in one voice to collectively express their serious concern at the way the world was exploiting the natural resources upon which indigenous peoples depend.\n\nSpecific reference is made within the Indigenous Peoples Earth Charter to perceived abuses of indigenous people's intellectual and cultural properties. Under the heading,\"Culture, Science and Intellectual Property\", amongst other matters, it is asserted:\n\n\"99: The usurping of traditional medicines and knowledge from Indigenous peoples should be considered a crime against peoples...\"\n\"102: As creators and carriers of civilizations which have given and continue to share knowledge, experience, and values with humanity, we require that our right to intellectual and cultural properties be guaranteed and that mechanisms for each be in favour of our peoples...\"\n\"104: The protection, norms and mechanism of artistic and artisan creation of our peoples must be established and implemented in order to avoid plunder, plagiarism, undue exposure, and use...\"\n\nAt the Lakota Summit V, an international gathering of US and Canadian Lakota, Dakota and Nakota Nations, about 500 representatives from 40 different tribes and bands of the Lakota unanimously passed a \"Declaration of War Against Exploiters of Lakota Spirituality.\" Representatives affirmed a zero-tolerance policy on the exploitation of Lakota, Dakota and Nakota ceremonial knowledge. \nWhereas \"we are conveners of an ongoing series of comprehensive forums on the abuse and exploitation of Lakota spirituality; and\"\nWhereas \"we represent the recognized Lakota leaders, traditional elders, and grassroots advocates of the Lakota people; and ... \"\nWhereas \"non-Indian charlatans and \"wannabes\" are selling books that promote systematic colonization of our Lakota spirituality; and \"\nWhereas \"this exponential exploitation of our Lakota spiritual traditions requires that we take immediate action to defend our most precious Lakota spirituality from further contamination, desecration and abuse; ...\" \n6. \"We urge traditional people, tribal leaders, and governing councils of all other Indian Nations, as well as all national Indian organizations, to join us in calling for an immediate end to this rampant exploitation of our respective American Indian sacred traditions by issuing statements denouncing such abuse; for it is not the Lakota, Dakota and Nakota people alone whose spiritual practices are being systematically violated by non-Indians.\"\n7. \"We urge all our Indian brothers and sisters to act decisively and boldly in our present campaign to end the destruction of our sacred traditions, keeping in mind that our highest duty as Indian people: to preserve the purity of our precious traditions for future generations, so that our children and our children's children will survive and prosper in the sacred manner intended for each of our respective peoples by our Creator.\"\n\nOn 18 June 1993, 150 delegates from fourteen countries, including indigenous representatives from Japan (Ainu), Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, India, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Surinam, United States and Aotearoa (New Zealand) met at Whakatane (Bay of Plenty region of New Zealand). The assembly affirmed Indigenous peoples' knowledge is of benefit to all humanity; recognised Indigenous peoples are willing to offer their knowledge to all humanity provided their fundamental rights to define and control this knowledge is protected by the international community; insisted the first beneficiaries of Indigenous knowledge must be the direct Indigenous descendants of such knowledge; and declared all forms of exploitation of Indigenous knowledge must cease.\n\nUnder Section 2 of their declaration they specifically ask State, National and International Agencies to:\n\n\"2.1: Recognise that Indigenous peoples are the guardians of their customary knowledge and have the right to protect and control dissemination of that knowledge.\"\n\n\"2.2: Recognise that Indigenous peoples also have the right to create new knowledge based on cultural tradition\"\"\n\n\"2.3: Accept that the cultural and intellectual property rights of Indigenous peoples are vested with those who created them.\"\n\nThis declaration arose out of a meeting of Indigenous and non-Indigenous specialists, who, at Jingarrba, in north-eastern Australia, agreed Indigenous intellectual property rights are best determined from within the customary laws of the Indigenous groups' themselves. Within the declaration, Indigenous customary laws are (re)named 'Aboriginal common laws', and it is insisted these laws must be acknowledged and treated as equal to any other systems of law:\n\n\"...Indigenous Peoples and Nations reaffirm their right to define for themselves their own intellectual property, acknowledging...the uniqueness of their own particular heritage.\"\n\n\"...Indigenous Peoples and Nations...declare that we...are willing to share [our intellectual property] with all humanity provided that our fundamental rights to define and control this property are recognised by the international community...\"\n\n\"Aboriginal intellectual property, within Aboriginal Common Law, is an inherent, inalienable right which cannot be terminated, extinguished, or taken... Any use of the intellectual property of Aboriginal Nations and Peoples may only be done in accordance with Aboriginal Common Law, and any unauthorised use is strictly prohibited.\"\n\nA regional meeting was held at Santa Cruz de la Sierra, Bolivia where indigenous peoples from the South America's concerned about the way internationally prevailing intellectual property systems and regimes appeared to be favouring the appropriation of indigenous peoples' knowledge and resources for commercial purposes, agreed:\n\n\"For members of indigenous peoples, knowledge and determination of the use of resources are collective and intergenerational. No...individuals or communities, nor the Government, can sell or transfer ownership of [cultural] resources which are the property of the people and which each generation has an obligation to safeguard for the next.\"\n\n\"Work must be conducted on the design of a protection and recognition system which is in accordance with ..our own conception, and mechanisms must be developed .. which will prevent appropriation of our resources and knowledge.\"\n\n\"There must be appropriate mechanisms for maintaining and ensuring the right of Indigenous peoples to deny indiscriminate access to the [cultural] resources of our communities or peoples and making it possible to contest patents or other exclusive rights to what is essentially Indigenous.\"\n\nIndigenous people of Asia met at Tambunan, Sabah, East Malaysia, to assert rights of self-determination, and to express concern about, and fear of, the threat unfamiliar 'western' intellectual property rights systems may pose to them. It was agreed:\n\n\"For the Indigenous peoples of Asia, the intellectual property rights system is not only a very new concept but it is also very western...[W]ith [western style] intellectual property property rights, alien laws will be devised to exploit the Indigenous knowledge and [cultural] resources of the Indigenous peoples.\"\n\n\"The [western] intellectual property rights system and the (mis)appropriation of Indigenous knowledge without the prior knowledge and consent of Indigenous peoples evoke feelings of anger, or being cheated\"\n\n\"Indigenous peoples are not benefiting from the intellectual property rights system. Indigenous knowledge and [cultural] resources are being eroded, exploited and/or appropriated by outsiders in the likes of transnational corporations, institutions, researchers, and scientists who are after profits and benefits gained..\"\n\n\"\"For indigenous peoples, life is a common property which cannot be owned, commercialized, and monopolised...Based on this world view, Indigenous peoples find it difficult to relate [western] intellectual property rights...to their daily lives...\"\n\nParticipants from the independent countries and \"nonautonomous colonised territories\" of the Pacific region met in Suva, Fiji to discuss internationally dominant intellectual property rights regimes, and at that meeting they resolved to support the Kari Oca, Mataatua, Julayinbul, Santa Cruz de la Sierra, and Tambunan initiatives(above). In particular participants:\n\n\"Reaffirme[d] that imperialism is perpetuated through [western] intellectual property rights systems...\"\n\n\"Declar[ed] Indigenous peoples are willing to share our knowledge with humanity provided we determine when, where and how it is used: at present the international system does not recognise or respect our past, present and potential contribution...\"\n\n\"Seek[s] repatriation of Indigenous peoples [cultural] resources already held in external collections, and seek[s] compensation and royalties from commercial developments resulting from these resources\"\n\n\"...encourage[s]...governments...to protest against any General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade provisions which facilitate the expropriation of Indigenous peoples' knowledge and resources...[to instead] incorporate the concerns of Indigenous peoples...into legislation...\"\n\n\"[Seek to] Strengthen the capacities of Indigenous peoples to maintain their oral traditions, and encourage initiatives by Indigenous peoples to record their knowledge .. according to their customary access procedures.\"\n\n\"Urge universities, churches, government, non-government organizations, and other institutions to reconsider their roles in the expropriation of Indigenous people's knowledge and resources and to assist in their return to their rightful owners.\"\n\nIndigenous people from around the world attended an international indigenous peoples' summit on sustainable development in Khoi-San Territory, Kimberley, South Africa, where they reaffirmed previous declarations and statements (above), and, amongst other matters, declared:\n\n\"Our traditional knowledge systems must be respected, promoted and protected; our collective intellectual property rights must be guaranteed and ensured. Our traditional knowledge is not in the public domain; it is collective, cultural and intellectual property protected under our customary law. Unauthorized use and misappropriation of traditional knowledge is theft.\"\n\nAt the United Nation's General Assembly's 61st session, on 13 September 2007, an overwhelming majority of members resolved to adopt the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. Regarding the intellectual property rights of indigenous peoples, the General Assembly recognized \"..the urgent need to respect and promote the inherent rights of indigenous peoples which derive from their political, economic and social structures and from their cultures, spiritual traditions, histories and philosophies...;\" reaffirmed \"...that indigenous peoples possess collective rights which are indispensable for their existence, well-being and integral development as peoples...;\" and solemnly proclaimed as an agreed standard for member nations around the world:\n\nArticle 11: \"Indigenous peoples have the right to practise and revitalize their cultural traditions and customs. This includes the right to maintain, protect and develop the past, present and future manifestations of their cultures, such as archaeological and historical sites, artefacts, designs, ceremonies, technologies and visual and performing arts and literature.\"\n\"States shall provide redress through effective mechanisms, which may include restitution, developed in conjunction with indigenous peoples, with respect to their cultural, intellectual, religious and spiritual property taken without their free, prior and informed consent or in violation of their laws, traditions and customs.\"\n\nArticle 24: \"Indigenous peoples have the right to their traditional medicines and to maintain their health practices, including the conservation of their vital medicinal plants, animals and minerals...\"\n\nArticle 31: \"Indigenous peoples have the right to maintain, control, protect and develop their cultural heritage, traditional knowledge and traditional cultural expressions, as well as the manifestations of their sciences, technologies and cultures, including human and genetic resources, seeds, medicines, knowledge of the properties of fauna and flora, oral traditions, literatures, designs, sports and traditional games and visual and performing arts. They also have the right to maintain, control, protect and develop their intellectual property over such cultural heritage, traditional knowledge, and traditional cultural expressions.\"\n\"In conjunction with indigenous peoples, States shall take effective measures to recognize and protect the exercise of these rights.\"\"\n\nTheory for intellectual property/privilege law is give creators temporary government monopoly for help creators earn their investments (patents and copyrights) but with idea after monopoly terminates everything becomes public domain for help create new innovation. Because of this theory, use intellectual property/privilege for control culture create many problems:\n\n• Most culture items are too old for patent or copyright. Additionally, often the author or creator unknown.\n\n• Registration is not filed and fees are not paid\n\n• Natural languages lie within the public domain\n\n• Art styles lie within the public domain\n\n• Properties of fauna and flora are scientific fact and their discovery and description can't have intellectual privilege for facts or information. Fauna and flora evolved, not created by humans.\n\n• Can't own culture, it belongs to every person that uses it. This causes problems with human rights like expression freedom and choice.\n\n• Cultural heritage, traditional knowledge, and traditional cultural expressions lie in the public domain.\n\n• Powerful indigenous cultures in Europa (English, Italianos, Russians, etc) and Asia (Hindustanis, Han Chinese, etc.) can reverse this and forbid indigenous people from their culture (modern medicine, science, mathematics, printing, combustion engines, computer, etc) and languages (like English, Chinese, Arabic, etc.) and religions (Christianity, Buddhism, Islam, etc.)\n\n• Indigenous people consume more outside culture than they can give\n\n• Intellectual property owners must pay maintenance fee (patents).\n\n• Proponents have not offered a solid concept of collective intellectual property rights, need a specific owner that can follow laws and must accept liability in courts.\n\n• Names of all groups are generic, can't protect name Maori, Apache more than English, or Thai, Chinese.\n\n• Intellectual property is an idea that belongs to European culture, therefore it fails to meet the needs of indigenous culture since it is too stuck up to see indigenous communities eye to eye and come to an understanding\n\n• People innovate around restrictions\n\n• May encourage use of stereotypes instead because outside people created them\n\n• Restricting culture helps it become lost \n\n• Use of intellectual property/privilege this encourages the move against cultural prostitution.\n\nThe phrase \"traditional cultural expressions\" is used by the World Intellectual Property Organization to refer to \"any form of artistic and literary expression in which traditional culture and knowledge are embodied. They are transmitted from one generation to the next, and include handmade textiles, paintings, stories, legends, ceremonies, music, songs, rhythms and dance.\"\n\nTraditional cultural expressions can include designs and styles, which means that applying traditional Western-style international copyright lawswhich apply to a specific work, rather than a stylecan be problematic. Indigenous customary law often treats such concepts differently, and may apply restrictions upon the use of underlying styles and concepts.\n\nSince the 1970s, Intertribal groups in North American have organized demonstrations against non-native use of Native American cultural elements; such as the sale of products and services allegedly derived from Indigenous knowledge:\n\n\"It is a very alarming trend. So alarming that it came to the attention of an international and intertribal group of medicine people and spiritual leaders called the Circle of Elders. They were highly concerned with these activities and during one of their gatherings addressed the issue by publishing a list of Plastic Shamans in \"Akwesasne Notes\", along with a plea for them to stop their exploitative activities. One of the best known Plastic Shamans, Lynn Andrews, has been picketed by the Native communities in New York, Minneapolis, San Francisco, Seattle and other cities.\n\nThe 1993 Lakota Declaration of War (see above), urges people to identify instances where sacred traditions are being abused and to work toward stopping the abuse through demonstrations, boycotts, press coverage and direct intervention.\n\nSince the 19th century, Maori-style Hakas have been popularly-used by New Zealanders as a cheer at sporting events; especially for New Zealand national teams. Between 1998 and 2006, the Ngati Toa iwi attempted to trademark the Ka Mate haka and to forbid its use by commercial organisations without their permission. The Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand turned their claim down in 2006, since \"Ka Mate\" had achieved wide recognition in New Zealand and abroad as representing New Zealand as a whole and not a particular trader. In 2009, as a part of a wider settlement of grievances, the New Zealand government agreed to:\n\nHowever, a survey of nineteenth-century New Zealand newspapers found Ka Mate was used by tribes from other parts of New Zealand, and was generally described by them as being an ancient peacekeeping song, from eras long before its appropriation by the Ngati Toa chief Te Rauparaha. When Ngati Toa authorities were asked for evidence that Ka Mate was of Ngati Toa authorship, they were unable to provide any.\n\nIn 2001 a dispute concerning the popular LEGO toy-line \"Bionicle\" arose between Danish toymaker Lego Group and several Māori tribal groups (fronted by lawyer Maui Solomon) and members of the on-line discussion forum (Aotearoa Cafe). The Bionicle product line allegedly used many words appropriated from Māori language, imagery and folklore. The dispute ended in an amicable settlement. Initially Lego refused to withdraw the product, saying it had drawn the names from many cultures, but later agreed that it had taken the names from Māori and agreed to change certain names or spellings to help set the toy-line apart from the Māori legends. This did not prevent the many Bionicle users from continuing to use the disputed words, resulting in the popular Bionicle website BZPower coming under a denial-of-service attack for four days from an attacker using the name Kotiate.\n\nIn 2005 a New Zealander in Jerusalem discovered that the Phillip Morris cigarette company had started producing a brand of cigarette in Israel called the \"L & M Maori mix\". In 2006, the head of Phillip Morris, Louis Camilleri, issued an apology to Māori: \"We sincerely regret any discomfort that was caused to Māori people by our mistake and we won't be repeating it.\"\n\nIn 1994 certain Native American tribal organisations demanded that a number of museums remove certain materials from exhibition and access to the public. They cited the NAGPRA as the legal basis for their complaints. Their position was that they would only permit such uses, selectively. after permission was requested directly to them.\nVernon Masayesva, CEO of the Hopi Tribe, and a consortium of Apache tribes demanded a number of American museums end public exhibition of and access to materials from their tribal cultures; including images, text, ceremonies, music, songs, stories, symbols, beliefs, customs, ideas, concepts and ethnographic field-notes, feature films, historical works, and any other medium in which their culture may appear literally, imagined, expressed, parodied or embellished.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30976128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30976128", "title": "International Short Stories", "text": "International Short Stories\n\nInternational Short Stories is a three-volume anthology of outstanding English, American, and French short stories and novellae of the 18th, 19th, and early 20th centuries. It was published by P.F. Collier & Son in 1910. The first volume features celebrated short fiction from the United States, the second volume of England, and the third of France (translated into English). The three-volume series was compiled by Frances J. Reynolds, and edited by William Patten.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "337723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337723", "title": "Kronos Quartet", "text": "Kronos Quartet\n\nThe Kronos Quartet is an American string quartet based in San Francisco. They have been in existence with a rotating membership of musicians for over forty years. The quartet covers a very broad range of musical genres, including contemporary classical music. More than 900 works have been written for them.\n\nThe quartet was founded by violinist David Harrington in Seattle, Washington. Its first performance was in November 1973. Since 1978, the quartet has been based in San Francisco, California. The longest-running combination of performers (from 1978 to 1999) had Harrington and John Sherba on violin, Hank Dutt on viola, and Joan Jeanrenaud on cello. In 1999, Joan Jeanrenaud left Kronos because she was \"eager for something new\"; she was replaced by Jennifer Culp who, in turn, left in 2005 and was replaced by Jeffrey Zeigler. In June 2013, Zeigler was replaced by Sunny Yang. With over forty studio albums to their credit and having performed worldwide, they were called \"probably the most famous 'new music' group in the world\" and were praised in philosophical studies of music for the inclusiveness of their repertoire.\n\nBy the time the quartet celebrated their twenty-fifth anniversary in 1999, they had a repertoire of over 600 works, which included 400 string quartets written for them, more than 3,000 performances, seven first-prize ASCAP awards, Edison Awards in classical and popular music, and had sold more than 1.5 million records.\n\nWhen Kronos turned 30, in 2003, they decided on a commissioning process for composers under the age of 30, in the hope of bringing some of the talented young composers to light. The program, called the Under 30 Project, is now run in cooperation with Carnegie Hall, Cal Performances at the University of California, Berkeley, and the Montalvo Arts Center. The first recipient was Alexandra du Bois (at the time a student at Indiana University, later a Juilliard School graduate), followed by Felipe Perez Santiago (born in Mexico in 1973), and Dan Visconti (born in Illinois in 1982); in 2007, Israeli composer Aviya Kopelman became the fourth.\n\nTo celebrate the fortieth year of the organization, the Kronos Quartet decided to return to Seattle, the city in which they first played, and work in collaboration with Seattle's Degenerate Art Ensemble to create a piece incorporating music, dance and video. They celebrated their 40th anniversary with a sold-out performance at Zellerbach Hall, UC Berkeley, in December 2013. The same year, Michael Giacchino, a soundtrack composer who often names his pieces with puns, published a piece named after them as a part of the soundtrack to \"Star Trek Into Darkness\" (the name of the piece is \"The Kronos Wartet\"), for a scene that takes place on the fictional planet \"Kronos\" (also spelled \"Qo'noS\").\n\nOver 900 pieces have been created for the Kronos Quartet, which has a long history of commissioning new works. They have worked with many minimalist composers including John Adams, Arvo Pärt, George Crumb, Henryk Górecki, Steve Reich, Philip Glass, Terry Riley, and Kevin Volans; collaborators hail from a diversity of countries – Kaija Saariaho from Finland, Pēteris Vasks from Latvia, Franghiz Ali-Zadeh from Azerbaijan, from Afghanistan, Victoria Vita Polevá from Ukraine and Fernando Otero, Astor Piazzolla, and Osvaldo Golijov from Argentina. Some of Kronos' string-quartet arrangements were published in 2007.\n\nKronos covers a very broad range of musical genres: Mexican folk, experimental, pre-classical early music, movie soundtracks (\"Requiem for a Dream\", \"Heat\", \"The Fountain\"), jazz and tango. Kronos has also recorded adaptations of Jimi Hendrix's \"Purple Haze\", Sigur Rós's \"Flugufrelsarinn\", Television's \"Marquee Moon\", Raymond Scott's \"Dinner Music for a Pack of Hungry Cannibals\", and Bob Dylan's \"Don't Think Twice, It's All Right\".\n\nKronos has also worked with a variety of global musicians, including Bollywood playback singer Asha Bhosle; Mexican-American painter Gronk; American soprano Dawn Upshaw; jazz composer/performer Pat Metheny; Mexican rockers Café Tacuba; Azerbaijani mugam singer Alim Qasimov; and the Romanian gypsy band Taraf de Haïdouks among others.\n\nKronos has performed live with the poet Allen Ginsberg, Astor Piazzolla, The National, the Modern Jazz Quartet, Tom Waits, David Bowie, Paul McCartney and Björk, and has recorded with Nelly Furtado, Rokia Traoré, Joan Armatrading, Brazilian electronica artist Amon Tobin, Texas yodeler Don Walser, Faith No More, Tiger Lillies and David Grisman.\n\nOn the 1998 Dave Matthews Band album \"Before These Crowded Streets\", Kronos Quartet performed on the tracks \"Halloween\" and \"The Stone\". They also recorded for the 2007 Nine Inch Nails remix album, \"Year Zero Remixed\" doing a rendition of the track \"Another Version of the Truth\"\". They also performed Lee Brooks' score for the short film \"2081\", based on the Kurt Vonnegut short story \"Harrison Bergeron.\"\n\nIn 2009, the quartet contributed an acoustic version of Blind Willie Johnson's \"Dark Was the Night\" for the AIDS benefit album \"Dark Was the Night\" produced by the Red Hot Organization.\n\nIn 2017, the quartet performed as featured artists on the songs \"Lost Light\" and \"Journey\" on the soundtrack to the videogame \"Destiny 2\".\n\nLe Diapason d'Or de Mai\nMusical America\nGrammy Award for Best Chamber Music Performance\nNational Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences\nPolar Music Prize\nWOMEX Awards\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17116922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17116922", "title": "List of Afro-Latinos", "text": "List of Afro-Latinos\n\nThis is a list of people of Afro-Latino descent. An Afro-Latin American (also Afro-Latino) is a Latin American person of Black African descent; the term may also refer to historical or cultural elements in Latin America thought to emanate from this community.\n\nMany Brazilians, Dominicans, Cubans, Puerto Ricans,Panamanians,Hondurans,Mexicans and other Latinos can fall under this label. 95% of the Africans who came into the Americas during the transatlantic slave trade were scattered about Latin America and the Caribbean. The very first Africans to reach the New World arrived on the island of Hispaniola, which is the Dominican Republic and Haiti. Dominicans and Haitians are descendants of the first African slaves in the New World, yet the majority of Africans to inhabit any American nation inhabited Brazil. Only 5% of the Africans to arrive in the Americas went to North America, who are the African Americans, descendants of the last and the fewest number of Africans to reach the New World. \n\nUrsula Burns business executive https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ursula_Burns\n\n"}
{"id": "17546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17546", "title": "Louvre", "text": "Louvre\n\nThe Louvre (), or the Louvre Museum ( ), is the world's largest art museum and a historic monument in Paris, France. A central landmark of the city, it is located on the Right Bank of the Seine in the city's 1st arrondissement (district or ward). Approximately 38,000 objects from prehistory to the 21st century are exhibited over an area of 72,735 square metres (782,910 square feet). In 2017, the Louvre was the world's most visited art museum, receiving 8.1 million visitors.\n\nThe museum is housed in the Louvre Palace, originally built as the Louvre castle in the late 12th to 13th century under Philip II. Remnants of the fortress are visible in the basement of the museum. Due to the urban expansion of the city, the fortress eventually lost its defensive function and, in 1546, was converted by Francis I into the main residence of the French Kings. The building was extended many times to form the present Louvre Palace. In 1682, Louis XIV chose the Palace of Versailles for his household, leaving the Louvre primarily as a place to display the royal collection, including, from 1692, a collection of ancient Greek and Roman sculpture. In 1692, the building was occupied by the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres and the Académie Royale de Peinture et de Sculpture, which in 1699 held the first of a series of salons. The Académie remained at the Louvre for 100 years. During the French Revolution, the National Assembly decreed that the Louvre should be used as a museum to display the nation's masterpieces.\n\nThe museum opened on 10 August 1793 with an exhibition of 537 paintings, the majority of the works being royal and confiscated church property. Because of structural problems with the building, the museum was closed in 1796 until 1801. The collection was increased under Napoleon and the museum was renamed \"Musée Napoléon\", but after Napoleon's abdication many works seized by his armies were returned to their original owners. The collection was further increased during the reigns of Louis XVIII and Charles X, and during the Second French Empire the museum gained 20,000 pieces. Holdings have grown steadily through donations and bequests since the Third Republic. The collection is divided among eight curatorial departments: Egyptian Antiquities; Near Eastern Antiquities; Greek, Etruscan and Roman Antiquities; Islamic Art; Sculpture; Decorative Arts; Paintings; Prints and Drawings.\n\nThe Louvre Palace, which houses the museum, was begun as a fortress by Philip II in the 12th century to protect the city from English soldiers which were in Normandy. Remnants of this castle are still visible in the crypt. Whether this was the first building on that spot is not known; it is possible that Philip modified an existing tower. According to the authoritative \"Grand Larousse encyclopédique\", the name derives from an association with wolf hunting den (via Latin: \"lupus\", lower Empire: \"lupara\"). In the 7th century, St. Fare, an abbess in Meaux, left part of her \"Villa called Luvra situated in the region of Paris\" to a monastery.; this territory probably did not correspond exactly to the modern site, however.\n\nThe Louvre Palace was altered frequently throughout the Middle Ages. In the 14th century, Charles V converted the building into a residence and in 1546, Francis I renovated the site in French Renaissance style. Francis acquired what would become the nucleus of the Louvre's holdings, his acquisitions including Leonardo da Vinci's \"Mona Lisa\". After Louis XIV chose Versailles as his residence in 1682, constructions slowed; however, the move permitted the Louvre to be used as a residence for artists, under Royal patronage. Four generations of Boulle were granted Royal patronage and resided in the Louvre in the following order: Pierre Boulle, Jean Boulle, Andre-Charles Boulle and his four sons (Jean-Philippe, Pierre-Benoît (c.1683-1741), Charles-André (1685–1749) and Charles-Joseph (1688–1754)), after him. André-Charles Boulle (11 November 164229 February 1732) is the most famous French cabinetmaker and the preeminent artist in the field of marquetry, also known as \"Inlay\". Boulle was \"the most remarkable of all French cabinetmakers\". He was commended to Louis XIV of France, the \"Sun King\", by Jean-Baptiste Colbert (29 August 1619 – 6 September 1683) as being \"the most skilled craftsman in his profession\". Before the fire of 1720 destroyed them, André-Charles Boulle held priceless works of art in the Louvre, including forty-eight drawings by Raphael\"\".\n\nBy the mid-18th century there were an increasing number of proposals to create a public gallery, with the art critic La Font de Saint-Yenne publishing, in 1747, a call for a display of the royal collection. On 14 October 1750, Louis XV agreed and sanctioned a display of 96 pieces from the royal collection, mounted in the Galerie royale de peinture of the Luxembourg Palace. A hall was opened by Le Normant de Tournehem and the Marquis de Marigny for public viewing of the \"Tableaux du Roy\" on Wednesdays and Saturdays, and contained Andrea del Sarto's \"Charity\" and works by Raphael; Titian; Veronese; Rembrandt; Poussin or Van Dyck, until its closing in 1780 as a result of the gift of the palace to the Count of Provence (the future king, Louis XVIII) by the king in 1778. Under Louis XVI, the royal museum idea became policy. The comte d'Angiviller broadened the collection and in 1776 proposed conversion of the Grande Galerie of the Louvre – which contained maps – into the \"French Museum\". Many proposals were offered for the Louvre's renovation into a museum; however, none was agreed on. Hence the museum remained incomplete until the French Revolution.\n\nDuring the French Revolution the Louvre was transformed into a public museum. In May 1791, the Assembly declared that the Louvre would be \"a place for bringing together monuments of all the sciences and arts\". On 10 August 1792, Louis XVI was imprisoned and the royal collection in the Louvre became national property. Because of fear of vandalism or theft, on 19 August, the National Assembly pronounced the museum's preparation as urgent. In October, a committee to \"preserve the national memory\" began assembling the collection for display.\n\nThe museum opened on 10 August 1793, the first anniversary of the monarchy's demise. The public was given free accessibility on three days per week, which was \"perceived as a major accomplishment and was generally appreciated\". The collection showcased 537 paintings and 184 objects of art. Three quarters were derived from the royal collections, the remainder from confiscated émigrés and Church property (\"biens nationaux\"). To expand and organize the collection, the Republic dedicated 100,000 livres per year. In 1794, France's revolutionary armies began bringing pieces from Northern Europe, augmented after the Treaty of Tolentino (1797) by works from the Vatican, such as \"Laocoön and His Sons\" and the \"Apollo Belvedere\", to establish the Louvre as a museum and as a \"sign of popular sovereignty\".\n\nThe early days were hectic; privileged artists continued to live in residence, and the unlabelled paintings hung \"frame to frame from floor to ceiling\". The structure itself closed in May 1796 due to structural deficiencies. It reopened on 14 July 1801, arranged chronologically and with new lighting and columns.\n\nUnder Napoleon I, a northern wing paralleling the Grande Galerie was begun, and the collection grew through successful military campaigns. Following the Egyptian campaign of 1798–1801, Napoléon appointed the museum's first director, Dominique Vivant Denon. In tribute, the museum was renamed the \"Musée Napoléon\" in 1803, and acquisitions were made of Spanish, Austrian, Dutch, and Italian works, either as spoils or through treaties such as the Treaty of Tolentino. At the end of Napoleon's First Italian Campaign in 1797, the Treaty of Campo Formio was signed with Count Philipp von Cobenzl of the Austrian Monarchy. This treaty not only marked the completion of Napoleon's conquest of Italy, but also the end of the first phases of the French Revolutionary Wars. Under this treaty, Italian cities were required to contribute pieces of art and patrimony to take part in Napoleon's \"parades of booty\" through Paris before being put into the Louvre Museum. One of the most famous pieces taken under this program was the Horses of Saint Mark. The four antique bronze horses, which had adorned the basilica of San Marco in Venice after the sack of Constantinople in 1204, were brought to Paris to reside atop Napoleon's Arc du Carrousel in Paris in 1797.\n\nSeveral churches and palaces, including Saint Mark's Basilica, were looted by the French, which outraged the Italians and their artistic and cultural sensibilities. In 1797, the Treaty of Tolentino was signed by Napoleon, and two statues, the \"Nile\" and \"Tiber\", were taken to Paris. These statues had previously been in the Vatican, and both were housed in the Louvre until 1815. After the defeat of Napoleon, the \"Nile\" was returned to Italy. However, the \"Tiber\" remained in the Louvre Museum and can be seen in the collections today.\n\nThe Italian Peninsula was not the only region from which Napoleon took art. Under the Directory government of the 1790s, Napoleon (then a General) led an expedition to Egypt. The campaign was an expansionist effort on the part of the government, but the Directory had another goal to make Paris the center of art, science, and culture. The Directory wanted France to assume responsibility for liberating the works of art they deemed in danger in order to protect and nationalize the heritage and culture of their subjects. As a result, there were teams of artists and scientists who accompanied the armies into battle equipped with lists of paintings, sculptures, and other pieces of patrimony that would be collected, crated, and shipped back to France.\n\nDominique Vivant Denon was Napoleon's art advisor, and accompanied him on the expedition to Egypt. Through his initiative, the Valley of the Kings in Egypt was discovered and studied extensively. As a result, he was later installed by Napoleon as the director of Musée Napoléon, formerly the Louvre, cementing the status of the museum as a center for global patrimony and storehouse for cultural heritage.\n\nOne of the most important discoveries made during Napoleon's campaign in Egypt was the Rosetta Stone. It was discovered in 1799, and eventually led to the ability to decipher ancient hieroglyphs. Although the Rosetta Stone was discovered by the French, it actually never made it to the Louvre Museum. It was seized by British Forces following the defeat of Napoleon in Egypt and the subsequent signing of the Treaty of Alexandria in 1801. It is now on display at the British Museum.\n\nAfter the French defeat at Waterloo, the works' former owners sought their return. The Louvre's administrators were loath to comply and hid many works in their private collections. In response, foreign states sent emissaries to London to seek help, and many pieces were returned, even some that had been restored by the Louvre. In 1815 Louis XVIII finally concluded agreements with the Austrian government for the keeping of pieces such as Veronese's \"Wedding at Cana\" which was exchanged for a large Le Brun or the repurchase of the Albani collection.\n\nDuring the Restoration (1814–30), Louis XVIII and Charles X between them added 135 pieces at a cost of 720,000 francs and created the department of Egyptian antiquities curated by Champollion, increased by more than 7,000 works with the acquisition of antiquities in the Edme-Antoine Durand, the Egyptian collection of Henry Salt or the second collection former by Bernardino Drovetti. This was less than the amount given for rehabilitation of Versailles, and the Louvre suffered relative to the rest of Paris. After the creation of the French Second Republic in 1848, the new government allocated two million francs for repair work and ordered the completion of the Galerie d'Apollon, the Salon Carré, and the Grande Galérie. In 1861, Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte bought 11,835 artworks including 641 paintings, Greek gold and other antiquities of the Campana collection. During the Second French Empire, between 1852 and 1870, the French economy grew; by 1870 the museum had added 20,000 new pieces to its collections, and the Pavillon de Flore and the Grande Galérie were remodelled under architects Louis Visconti and Hector Lefuel.\n\nThe Louvre was damaged during the suppression of the Paris Commune. On 23 May 1871, as the French Army advanced into Paris, a force of Communards led by Jules Bergeret set fire to the adjoining Tuileries Palace. The fire burned for forty-eight hours, entirely destroying the interior of the palace and spreading to the museum next to it. The library of the museum and some of the adjoining halls were destroyed, but the museum was saved by the efforts of Paris firemen and museum employees.\n\nDuring the Third Republic (1870–1940) the Louvre acquired new pieces mainly via donations and gifts. The \"Société des Amis du Louvre\" (established in 1897) donated the \"Pietà of Villeneuve-lès-Avignon\", and in 1863 an expedition uncovered the sculpture \"Winged Victory of Samothrace\" in the Aegean Sea. This piece, though heavily damaged, has been prominently displayed since 1884. The 583-item \"Collection La Caze\" donated in 1869, included works by Chardin; Fragonard; Rembrandt – such as \"Bathsheba at Her Bath\" – and \"Gilles\" by Watteau.\n\nMuseum expansion slowed after World War I, and the collection did not acquire many significant new works; exceptions were Georges de La Tour's \"Saint Thomas\" and Baron Edmond de Rothschild's (1845–1934) 1935 donation of 4,000 prints, 3,000 drawings, and 500 illustrated books.\nAt the beginning of World War II the museum removed most of the art and hid valuable pieces. When Germany occupied the Sudetenland, many important artworks such as the \"Mona Lisa\" were temporarily moved to the Château de Chambord. When war was formally declared a year later, most of the museum's paintings were sent there as well. Select sculptures such as \"Winged Victory of Samothrace\" and the \"Venus de Milo\" were sent to the Château de Valençay. On 27 August 1939, after two days of packing, truck convoys began to leave Paris. By 28 December, the museum was cleared of most works, except those that were too heavy and \"unimportant paintings [that] were left in the basement\". In early 1945, after the liberation of France, art began returning to the Louvre.\n\nBy 1874, the Louvre Palace had achieved its present form of an almost rectangular structure with the Sully Wing to the east containing the Cour Carrée (Square Court) and the oldest parts of the Louvre; and two wings which wrap the Cour Napoléon, the Richelieu Wing to the north and the Denon Wing, which borders the Seine to the south. In 1983, French President François Mitterrand proposed, as one of his Grands Projets, the Grand Louvre plan to renovate the building and relocate the Finance Ministry, allowing displays throughout the building. Architect I. M. Pei was awarded the project and proposed a glass pyramid to stand over a new entrance in the main court, the Cour Napoléon. The pyramid and its underground lobby were inaugurated on 15 October 1988 and the \"Louvre Pyramid\" was completed in 1989. The second phase of the Grand Louvre plan, \"La Pyramide Inversée\" (\"The Inverted Pyramid\"), was completed in 1993. As of 2002, attendance had doubled since completion.\n\nThe Musée du Louvre contains more than 380,000 objects and displays 35,000 works of art in eight curatorial departments with more than dedicated to the permanent collection. The Louvre exhibits sculptures, objets d'art, paintings, drawings, and archaeological finds. It is the world's most visited museum, averaging 15,000 visitors per day, 65 percent of whom are foreign tourists.\n\nAfter architects Mario Bellini and Rudy Ricciotti had won an international competition to create its new galleries for Islamic art, the new 3,000 sq m pavilion eventually opened in 2012, consisting of ground- and lower-ground-level interior spaces topped by a golden, undulating roof (fashioned from almost 9,000 steel tubes that form an interior web) that seems to float within the neo-Classical Visconti Courtyard in the middle of the Louvre's south wing. The galleries, which the museum had initially hoped to open by 2009, represent the first major architectural intervention at the Louvre since the addition of I.M. Pei's glass pyramid in 1989.\n\nOn 5 February 2015, about one hundred archaeologists, protesting against commercial private involvement to protect France's heritage, blocked Louvre's ticket desks to facilitate free access to the museum. At least one announcement reading \"Free entrance offered by the archeologists\" has been attached to the ticket desk and a number of people visited the museum free of charge.\n\nThe Louvre is owned by the French government; however, since the 1990s it has become more independent. Since 2003, the museum has been required to generate funds for projects. By 2006, government funds had dipped from 75 percent of the total budget to 62 percent. Every year, the Louvre now raises as much as it gets from the state, about €122 million. The government pays for operating costs (salaries, safety and maintenance), while the rest – new wings, refurbishments, acquisitions – is up to the museum to finance. A further €3 million to €5 million a year is raised by the Louvre from exhibitions that it curates for other museums, while the host museum keeps the ticket money. As the Louvre became a point of interest in the book \"The Da Vinci Code\" and the 2006 film based on the book, the museum earned $2.5 million by allowing filming in its galleries. In 2008, the French government provided $180 million of the Louvre's yearly $350 million budget; the remainder came from private contributions and ticket sales.\n\nThe Louvre employs a staff of 2,000 led by Director Jean-Luc Martinez, who reports to the French Ministry of Culture and Communications. Martinez replaced Henri Loyrette in April 2013. Under Loyrette, who replaced Pierre Rosenberg in 2001, the Louvre has undergone policy changes that allow it to lend and borrow more works than before. In 2006, it loaned 1,300 works, which enabled it to borrow more foreign works. From 2006 to 2009, the Louvre lent artwork to the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, Georgia, and received a $6.9 million payment to be used for renovations.\n\nIn 2012, the Louvre and the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco announced a five-year collaboration on exhibitions, publications, art conservation and educational programming. The €98.5 million expansion of the Islamic Art galleries in 2012 received state funding of €31 million, as well as €17 million from the Alwaleed Bin Talal Foundation founded by the eponymous Saudi prince. The republic of Azerbaijan, the Emir of Kuwait, the Sultan of Oman and King Mohammed VI of Morocco donated in total €26 million. In addition, the opening of the Louvre Abu Dhabi is supposed to provide €400 million over the course of 30 years for its use of the museum's brand. Loyrette has tried to improve weak parts of the collection through income generated from loans of art and by guaranteeing that \"20% of admissions receipts will be taken annually for acquisitions\". He has more administrative independence for the museum and achieved 90 percent of galleries to be open daily, as opposed to 80 percent previously. He oversaw the creation of extended hours and free admission on Friday nights and an increase in the acquisition budget to $36 million from $4.5 million.\n\nIn 2004, French officials decided to build a satellite museum on the site of an abandoned coal pit in the former mining town of Lens to relieve the crowded Paris Louvre, increase total museum visits, and improve the industrial north's economy. Six cities were considered for the project: Amiens, Arras, Boulogne-sur-Mer, Calais, Lens, and Valenciennes. In 2004, French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin chose Lens to be the site of the new building, the Louvre-Lens. Japanese architects SANAA were selected to design the Lens project in 2005. Museum officials predicted that the new building, capable of receiving about 600 works of art, would attract up to 500,000 visitors a year when it opened in 2012.\n\nOn 8 November 2017, a direct extension of the Louvre, Louvre Abu Dhabi, opened its doors to the public in the city of Abu Dhabi. A 30-year agreement, signed by French Culture Minister Renaud Donnedieu de Vabres and Sheik Sultan bin Tahnoon Al Nahyan, established the museum on Saadiyat Island in Abu Dhabi in exchange for €832,000,000 (US$1.3 billion). The Louvre Abu Dhabi, designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel and the engineering firm of Buro Happold, occupy and is covered by an iconic metallic roof designed to cast rays of light mimicking sunlight passing through date palm fronds in an oasis. France agreed to rotate between 200 and 300 artworks during a 10-year period; to provide management expertise; and to provide four temporary exhibitions a year for 15 years. The art will come from multiple museums, including the Louvre, the Georges Pompidou Centre, the Musée d'Orsay, Versailles, the Musée Guimet, the Musée Rodin, and the Musée du quai Branly.\n\nIn March 2018 an exhibition of dozens of artworks and relics belonging to France’s Louvre Museum was opened to visitors in Tehran, as a result of an agreement between Iranian and French presidents in 2016. In the Louvre, two departments were allocated to the antiquities of the Iranian civilization, and the managers of the two departments visited Tehran. Relics belonging to Ancient Egypt, Rome and Mesopotamia as well as French royal items were showcased at the Tehran exhibition.\n\nIran’s National Museum building was designed and constructed by French architect André Godard. Following its time in Tehran, the exhibition is set to be held in the Khorasan Grand Museum in Mashhad, northeastern Iran in June 2018.\n\nIn 2009, Minister of Culture Frédéric Mitterrand approved a plan that would have created a storage facility northwest of Paris to hold objects from the Louvre and two other national museums in Paris's flood zone, the Musée du Quai Branly and the Musée d'Orsay; the plan was later scrapped. In 2013, his successor Aurélie Filippetti announced that the Louvre would move more than 250,000 works of art held in a basement storage area in Liévin; the cost of the project, estimated at €60 million, will be split between the region (49%) and the Louvre (51%). The Louvre will be the sole owner and manager of the store. In July 2015, a team led by British firm Rogers Stirk Harbour + Partners was selected to design the complex, which will have light-filled work spaces under one vast, green roof.\n\nThe Louvre is involved in controversies that surround cultural property seized under Napoleon I, as well as during World War II by the Nazis. During Nazi occupation, thousands of artworks were stolen. But after the war, 61,233 articles of more than 150,000 seized artworks returned to France and were assigned to the Louvre's Office des Biens Privés. In 1949, it entrusted 2,130 unclaimed pieces (including 1,001 paintings) to the Direction des Musées de France in order to keep them under appropriate conditions of conservation until their restitution and meanwhile classified them as MNRs (Musées Nationaux Recuperation or, in English, the National Museums of Recovered Artwork). Some 10% to 35% of the pieces are believed to come from Jewish spoliations and until the identification of their rightful owners, which declined at the end of the 1960s, they are registered indefinitely on separate inventories from the museum's collections.\n\nThey were exhibited in 1946 and shown all together to the public during four years (1950–1954) in order to allow rightful claimants to identify their properties, then stored or displayed, according to their interest, in several French museums including the Louvre. From 1951 to 1965, about 37 pieces were restituted. Since November 1996, the partly illustrated catalogue of 1947–1949 has been accessible online and completed. In 1997, Prime Minister Alain Juppé initiated the Mattéoli Commission, headed by Jean Mattéoli, to investigate the matter and according to the government, the Louvre is in charge of 678 pieces of artwork still unclaimed by their rightful owners. During the late 1990s, the comparison of the American war archives, which had not been done before, with the French and German ones as well as two court cases which finally settled some of the heirs' rights (Gentili di Giuseppe and Rosenberg families) allowed more accurate investigations. Since 1996, the restitutions, according sometimes to less formal criteria, concerned 47 more pieces (26 paintings, with 6 from the Louvre including a then displayed Tiepolo), until the last claims of French owners and their heirs ended again in 2006.\n\nAccording to Serge Klarsfeld, since the now complete and constant publicity which the artworks got in 1996, the majority of the French Jewish community is nevertheless in favour of the return to the normal French civil rule of \"prescription acquisitive\" of any unclaimed good after another long period of time and consequently to their ultimate integration into the common French heritage instead of their transfer to foreign institutions like during World War II.\n\nIn June 2015, the Louvre was accused of discriminating against Israeli students.\n\nNapoleon's campaigns acquired Italian pieces by treaties, as war reparations, and Northern European pieces as spoils as well as some antiquities excavated in Egypt, though the vast majority of the latter were seized as war reparations by the British army and are now part of collections of the British Museum. On the other hand, the Dendera zodiac is, like the Rosetta Stone, claimed by Egypt even though it was acquired in 1821, before the Egyptian Anti-export legislation of 1835. The Louvre administration has thus argued in favor of retaining this item despite requests by Egypt for its return. The museum participates too in arbitration sessions held via UNESCO's Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to Its Countries of Origin. The museum consequently returned in 2009 five Egyptian fragments of frescoes (30 cm x 15 cm each) whose existence of the tomb of origin had only been brought to the authorities attention in 2008, eight to five years after their good-faith acquisition by the museum from two private collections and after the necessary respect of the procedure of \"déclassement\" from French public collections before the Commission scientifique nationale des collections des musées de France.\n\nThe Musée du Louvre contains more than 380,000 objects and displays 35,000 works of art in eight curatorial departments.\n\nThe department, comprising over 50,000 pieces, includes artifacts from the Nile civilizations which date from 4,000 BC to the 4th century AD. The collection, among the world's largest, overviews Egyptian life spanning Ancient Egypt, the Middle Kingdom, the New Kingdom, Coptic art, and the Roman, Ptolemaic, and Byzantine periods.\nThe department's origins lie in the royal collection, but it was augmented by Napoleon's 1798 expeditionary trip with Dominique Vivant, the future director of the Louvre. After Jean-François Champollion translated the Rosetta Stone, Charles X decreed that an Egyptian Antiquities department be created. Champollion advised the purchase of three collections, formed by Edmé-Antoine Durand, Henry Salt and Bernardino Drovet; these additions added 7,000 works. Growth continued via acquisitions by Auguste Mariette, founder of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. Mariette, after excavations at Memphis, sent back crates of archaeological finds including \"The Seated Scribe\".\n\nGuarded by the \"Large Sphinx\" (c. 2000 BC), the collection is housed in more than 20 rooms. Holdings include art, papyrus scrolls, mummies, tools, clothing, jewelry, games, musical instruments, and weapons. Pieces from the ancient period include the \"Gebel el-Arak Knife\" from 3400 BC, \"The Seated Scribe\", and the \"Head of King Djedefre\". Middle Kingdom art, \"known for its gold work and statues\", moved from realism to idealization; this is exemplified by the schist statue of Amenemhatankh and the wooden \"Offering Bearer\". The New Kingdom and Coptic Egyptian sections are deep, but the statue of the goddess Nephthys and the limestone depiction of the goddess Hathor demonstrate New Kingdom sentiment and wealth.\n\nNear Eastern antiquities, the second newest department, dates from 1881 and presents an overview of early Near Eastern civilization and \"first settlements\", before the arrival of Islam. The department is divided into three geographic areas: the Levant, Mesopotamia (Iraq), and Persia (Iran). The collection's development corresponds to archaeological work such as Paul-Émile Botta's 1843 expedition to Khorsabad and the discovery of Sargon II's palace. These finds formed the basis of the Assyrian museum, the precursor to today's department.\n\nThe museum contains exhibits from Sumer and the city of Akkad, with monuments such as the Prince of Lagash's \"Stele of the Vultures\" from 2450 BC and the stele erected by Naram-Sin, King of Akkad, to celebrate a victory over barbarians in the Zagros Mountains. The Code of Hammurabi, discovered in 1901, displays Babylonian Laws prominently, so that no man could plead their ignorance. The 18th-century BC mural of the \"Investiture of Zimrilim\" and the 25th-century BC \"Statue of Ebih-Il\" found in the ancient city-state of Mari are also on display at the museum.\n\nThe Persian portion of Louvre contains work from the archaic period, like the \"Funerary Head\" and the Persian \"Archers of Darius I\". This section also contains rare objects from Persepolis which were also lent to the British Museum for its Ancient Persia exhibition in 2005.\n\nThe Greek, Etruscan, and Roman department displays pieces from the Mediterranean Basin dating from the Neolithic to the 6th century. The collection spans from the Cycladic period to the decline of the Roman Empire. This department is one of the museum's oldest; it began with appropriated royal art, some of which was acquired under Francis I. Initially, the collection focused on marble sculptures, such as the \"Venus de Milo\". Works such as the \"Apollo Belvedere\" arrived during the Napoleonic Wars, but these pieces were returned after Napoleon I's fall in 1815. In the 19th century, the Louvre acquired works including vases from the Durand collection, bronzes such as the \"Borghese Vase\" from the Bibliothèque nationale.\n\nThe archaic is demonstrated by jewellery and pieces such as the limestone \"Lady of Auxerre\", from 640 BC; and the cylindrical \"Hera of Samos\", circa 570–560 BC. After the 4th century BC, focus on the human form increased, exemplified by the \"Borghese Gladiator\". The Louvre holds masterpieces from the Hellenistic era, including The \"Winged Victory of Samothrace\" (190 BC) and the \"Venus de Milo\", symbolic of classical art. The long \"Galerie Campana\" displays an outstanding collection of more than one thousand Greek potteries. In the galleries paralleling the Seine, much of the museum's Roman sculpture is displayed. The Roman portraiture is representative of that genre; examples include the portraits of Agrippa and Annius Verus; among the bronzes is the Greek \"Apollo of Piombino\".\n\nThe Islamic art collection, the museum's newest, spans \"thirteen centuries and three continents\". These exhibits, comprising ceramics, glass, metalware, wood, ivory, carpet, textiles, and miniatures, include more than 5,000 works and 1,000 shards. Originally part of the decorative arts department, the holdings became separate in 2003. Among the works are the \"Pyxide d'al-Mughira\", a 10th century ivory box from Andalusia; the \"Baptistery of Saint-Louis\", an engraved brass basin from the 13th or 14th century Mamluk period; and the 10th century \"Shroud of Saint-Josse\" from Iran. The collection contains three pages of the \"Shahnameh\", an epic book of poems by Ferdowsi in Persian, and a Syrian metalwork named the \"Barberini Vase\".\n\nThe sculpture department comprises work created before 1850 that does not belong in the Etruscan, Greek, and Roman department. The Louvre has been a repository of sculpted material since its time as a palace; however, only ancient architecture was displayed until 1824, except for Michelangelo's \"Dying Slave\" and \"Rebellious Slave\". Initially the collection included only 100 pieces, the rest of the royal sculpture collection being at Versailles. It remained small until 1847, when Léon Laborde was given control of the department. Laborde developed the medieval section and purchased the first such statues and sculptures in the collection, \"King Childebert\" and \"stanga door\", respectively. The collection was part of the Department of Antiquities but was given autonomy in 1871 under Louis Courajod, a director who organized a wider representation of French works. In 1986, all post-1850 works were relocated to the new Musée d'Orsay. The Grand Louvre project separated the department into two exhibition spaces; the French collection is displayed in the Richelieu wing, and foreign works in the Denon wing.\n\nThe collection's overview of French sculpture contains Romanesque works such as the 11th-century \"Daniel in the Lions' Den\" and the 12th-century \"Virgin of Auvergne\". In the 16th century, Renaissance influence caused French sculpture to become more restrained, as seen in Jean Goujon's bas-reliefs, and Germain Pilon's \"Descent from the Cross\" and \"Resurrection of Christ\". The 17th and 18th centuries are represented by Gian Lorenzo Bernini's 1640–1 Bust of Cardinal Richelieu, Étienne Maurice Falconet's \"Woman Bathing\" and \"Amour menaçant\", and François Anguier's obelisks. Neoclassical works includes Antonio Canova's \"Psyche Revived by Cupid's Kiss\" (1787). The 18th and 19th centuries are represented by the French sculptor Alfred Barye.\n\nThe Objets d'art collection spans the time from the Middle Ages to the mid-19th century. The department began as a subset of the sculpture department, based on royal property and the transfer of work from the Basilique Saint-Denis, the burial ground of French monarchs that held the \"Coronation Sword of the Kings of France\". Among the budding collection's most prized works were pietre dure vases and bronzes. The Durand collection's 1825 acquisition added \"ceramics, enamels, and stained glass\", and 800 pieces were given by Pierre Révoil. The onset of Romanticism rekindled interest in Renaissance and Medieval artwork, and the Sauvageot donation expanded the department with 1,500 middle-age and faïence works. In 1862, the Campana collection added gold jewelry and maiolicas, mainly from the 15th and 16th centuries.\n\nThe works are displayed on the Richelieu Wing's first floor and in the Apollo Gallery, named by the painter Charles Le Brun, who was commissioned by Louis XIV (the Sun King) to decorate the space in a solar theme. The medieval collection contains the coronation crown of Louis XIV, Charles V's sceptre, and the 12th century \"porphyry vase\". The Renaissance art holdings include Giambologna's bronze \"Nessus and Deianira\" and the tapestry \"Maximillian's Hunt\". From later periods, highlights include Madame de Pompadour's Sèvres vase collection and Napoleon III's apartments.\n\nIn September 2000, the Louvre Museum dedicated the Gilbert Chagoury and Rose-Marie Chagoury Gallery to display tapestries donated by the Chagourys, including a 16th-century six-part tapestry suite, sewn with gold and silver threads representing sea divinities, which was commissioned in Paris for Colbert de Seignelay, Secretary of State for the Navy.\n\nThe painting collection has more than 7,500 works from the 13th century to 1848 and is managed by 12 curators who oversee the collection's display. Nearly two-thirds are by French artists, and more than 1,200 are Northern European. The Italian paintings compose most of the remnants of Francis I and Louis XIV's collections, others are unreturned artwork from the Napoleon era, and some were bought. The collection began with Francis, who acquired works from Italian masters such as Raphael and Michelangelo and brought Leonardo da Vinci to his court. After the French Revolution, the Royal Collection formed the nucleus of the Louvre. When the \"d'Orsay\" train station was converted into the Musée d'Orsay in 1986, the collection was split, and pieces completed after the 1848 Revolution were moved to the new museum. French and Northern European works are in the Richelieu wing and \"Cour Carrée\"; Spanish and Italian paintings are on the first floor of the Denon wing.\n\nExemplifying the French School are the early \"Avignon Pietà\" of Enguerrand Quarton; the anonymous painting of \"King Jean le Bon\" (c.1360), possibly the oldest independent portrait in Western painting to survive from the postclassical era; Hyacinthe Rigaud's \"Louis XIV\"; Jacques-Louis David's \"The Coronation of Napoleon\"; and Eugène Delacroix's \"Liberty Leading the People\". Nicolas Poussin, the Le Nain brothers, Philippe de Champaigne, Le Brun, La Tour, Watteau, Fragonard, Ingres, Corot, Delacroix are well represented.\n\nNorthern European works include Johannes Vermeer's \"The Lacemaker\" and \"The Astronomer\"; Caspar David Friedrich's \"The Tree of Crows\"; Rembrandt's \"The Supper at Emmaus\", \"Bathsheba at Her Bath\", and \"The Slaughtered Ox\".\n\nThe Italian holdings are notable, particularly the Renaissance collection. The works include Andrea Mantegna and Giovanni Bellini's \"Calvary\"s, which reflect realism and detail \"meant to depict the significant events of a greater spiritual world\". The High Renaissance collection includes Leonardo da Vinci's \"Mona Lisa\", \"Virgin and Child with St. Anne\", \"St. John the Baptist\", and \"Madonna of the Rocks\". Caravaggio is represented by \"The Fortune Teller\" and \"Death of the Virgin\". From 16th century Venice, the Louvre displays Titian's \"Le Concert Champetre\", \"The Entombment\" and \"The Crowning with Thorns\".\nThe La Caze Collection, a bequest to the Musée du Louvre in 1869 by Louis La Caze, was the largest contribution of a person in the history of the Louvre. La Caze gave 584 paintings of his personal collection to the museum. The bequest included Antoine Watteau's Commedia dell'arte player of Pierrot (\"Gilles\"). In 2007, this bequest was the topic of the exhibition \"1869: Watteau, Chardin... entrent au Louvre. La collection La Caze\".\n\nSome of the best known paintings of the museum have been digitized by the French Center for Research and Restoration of the Museums of France.\n\nThe prints and drawings department encompasses works on paper. The origins of the collection were the 8,600 works in the Royal Collection (\"Cabinet du Roi\"), which were increased via state appropriation, purchases such as the 1,200 works from Fillipo Baldinucci's collection in 1806, and donations. The department opened on 5 August 1797, with 415 pieces displayed in the Galerie d'Apollon. The collection is organized into three sections: the core \"Cabinet du Roi\", 14,000 royal copper printing-plates, and the donations of Edmond de Rothschild, which include 40,000 prints, 3,000 drawings, and 5,000 illustrated books. The holdings are displayed in the Pavillon de Flore; due to the fragility of the paper medium, only a portion are displayed at one time.\n\nThe museum lies in the center of Paris on the Right Bank, in the 1st arrondissement. It was home to the former Tuileries Palace, which closed off the western end of the Louvre entrance courtyard, but was heavily damaged by fire during the Paris Commune of 1871 and later demolished. The adjacent Tuileries Gardens, created in 1564 by Catherine de' Medici, was designed in 1664 by André Le Nôtre. The gardens house the Galerie nationale du Jeu de Paume, a contemporary art exhibition space which was used to store confiscated Jewish cultural property during the 1940 to 1944 German occupation of France. Parallel to the Jeu de Paume is the Orangerie, home to the famous \"Water Lilies\" paintings by Claude Monet.\n\nThe Louvre is slightly askew of the Historic Axis (\"Axe historique\"), a roughly eight-kilometre (five-mile) architectural line bisecting the city. It begins on the east in the Louvre courtyard and runs west along the Champs-Élysées. In 1871, the burning of the Tuileries Palace by the Paris Commune revealed that the Louvre was slightly askew of the \"Axe\" despite past appearances to the contrary. The Louvre can be reached by the Palais Royal – Musée du Louvre Métro or the Louvre-Rivoli stations.\n\nThe Louvre has three entrances: the main entrance at the pyramid, an entrance from the Carrousel du Louvre underground shopping mall, and an entrance at the Porte des Lions (near the western end of the Denon wing).\n\nUnder the main entrance to the museum is the Carrousel du Louvre, a shopping mall operated by Unibail-Rodamco. Among other stores, it has the first Apple Store in France, and a McDonald's restaurant, the presence of which has created controversy.\n\nThe use of cameras and video recorders is permitted inside, but flash photography is forbidden.\n\n"}
{"id": "90664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=90664", "title": "Manifest destiny", "text": "Manifest destiny\n\nIn the 19th century, manifest destiny was a widely held belief in the United States that its settlers were destined to expand across North America. There are three basic themes to manifest destiny:\n\nHistorian Frederick Merk says this concept was born out of \"a sense of mission to redeem the Old World by high example ... generated by the potentialities of a new earth for building a new heaven\".\n\nHistorians have emphasized that \"manifest destiny\" was a contested concept—\"pre-civil war\" Democrats endorsed the idea but many prominent Americans (such as Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, and most Whigs) rejected it. Historian Daniel Walker Howe writes, \"American imperialism did not represent an American consensus; it provoked bitter dissent within the national polity ... \"Whigs\" saw America's moral mission as one of democratic example rather than one of conquest.\"\n\nNewspaper editor John O'Sullivan is generally credited with coining the term \"manifest destiny\" in 1845 to describe the essence of this mindset, which was a rhetorical tone; however, the unsigned editorial titled \"Annexation\" in which it first appeared was arguably written by journalist and annexation advocate Jane Cazneau. The term was used by Democrats in the 1840s to justify the war with Mexico and it was also used to divide half of Oregon with the United Kingdom. But manifest destiny always limped along because of its internal limitations and the issue of slavery, says Merk. It never became a national priority. By 1843, former U.S. President John Quincy Adams, originally a major supporter of the concept underlying manifest destiny, had changed his mind and repudiated expansionism because it meant the expansion of slavery in Texas.\n\nMerk concluded:\nThere was never a set of principles defining manifest destiny, therefore it was always a general idea rather than a specific policy made with a motto. Ill-defined but keenly felt, manifest destiny was an expression of conviction in the morality and value of expansionism that complemented other popular ideas of the era, including American exceptionalism and Romantic nationalism. Andrew Jackson, who spoke of \"extending the area of freedom\", typified the conflation of America's potential greatness, the nation's budding sense of Romantic self-identity, and its expansion.\n\nYet Jackson would not be the only president to elaborate on the principles underlying manifest destiny. Owing in part to the lack of a definitive narrative outlining its rationale, proponents offered divergent or seemingly conflicting viewpoints. While many writers focused primarily upon American expansionism, be it into Mexico or across the Pacific, others saw the term as a call to example. Without an agreed upon interpretation, much less an elaborated political philosophy, these conflicting views of America's destiny were never resolved. This variety of possible meanings was summed up by Ernest Lee Tuveson: \"A vast complex of ideas, policies, and actions is comprehended under the phrase \"Manifest Destiny\". They are not, as we should expect, all compatible, nor do they come from any one source.\" \n\nJournalist John L. O'Sullivan was an influential advocate for Jacksonian democracy and a complex character, described by Julian Hawthorne as \"always full of grand and world-embracing schemes\". O'Sullivan wrote an article in 1839 that, while not using the term \"manifest destiny\", did predict a \"divine destiny\" for the United States based upon values such as equality, rights of conscience, and personal enfranchisement \"to establish on earth the moral dignity and salvation of man\". This destiny was not explicitly territorial, but O'Sullivan predicted that the United States would be one of a \"Union of many Republics\" sharing those values.\n\nSix years later, in 1845, O'Sullivan wrote another essay titled \"Annexation\" in the \"Democratic Review\", in which he first used the phrase \"manifest destiny\". In this article he urged the U.S. to annex the Republic of Texas, not only because Texas desired this, but because it was \"our manifest destiny to overspread the continent allotted by Providence for the free development of our yearly multiplying millions\". Overcoming Whig opposition, Democrats annexed Texas in 1845. O'Sullivan's first usage of the phrase \"manifest destiny\" attracted little attention.\n\nO'Sullivan's second use of the phrase became extremely influential. On December 27, 1845, in his newspaper the \"New York Morning News\", O'Sullivan addressed the ongoing boundary dispute with Britain. O'Sullivan argued that the United States had the right to claim \"the whole of Oregon\":\nAnd that claim is by the right of our manifest destiny to overspread and to possess the whole of the continent which Providence has given us for the development of the great experiment of liberty and federated self-government entrusted to us.\n\nThat is, O'Sullivan believed that Providence had given the United States a mission to spread republican democracy (\"the great experiment of liberty\"). Because Britain would not spread democracy, thought O'Sullivan, British claims to the territory should be overruled. O'Sullivan believed that manifest destiny was a moral ideal (a \"higher law\") that superseded other considerations.\n\nO'Sullivan's original conception of manifest destiny was not a call for territorial expansion by force. He believed that the expansion of the United States would happen without the direction of the U.S. government or the involvement of the military. After Americans immigrated to new regions, they would set up new democratic governments, and then seek admission to the United States, as Texas had done. In 1845, O'Sullivan predicted that California would follow this pattern next, and that Canada would eventually request annexation as well. He disapproved of the Mexican–American War in 1846, although he came to believe that the outcome would be beneficial to both countries.\n\nIronically, O'Sullivan's term became popular only after it was criticized by Whig opponents of the Polk administration. Whigs denounced manifest destiny, arguing, \"that the designers and supporters of schemes of conquest, to be carried on by this government, are engaged in treason to our Constitution and Declaration of Rights, giving aid and comfort to the enemies of republicanism, in that they are advocating and preaching the doctrine of the right of conquest\". On January 3, 1846, Representative Robert Winthrop ridiculed the concept in Congress, saying \"I suppose the right of a manifest destiny to spread will not be admitted to exist in any nation except the universal Yankee nation\". Winthrop was the first in a long line of critics who suggested that advocates of manifest destiny were citing \"Divine Providence\" for justification of actions that were motivated by chauvinism and self-interest. Despite this criticism, expansionists embraced the phrase, which caught on so quickly that its origin was soon forgotten.\n\nHistorian William E. Weeks has noted that three key themes were usually touched upon by advocates of manifest destiny:\n\nThe origin of the first theme, later known as American exceptionalism, was often traced to America's Puritan heritage, particularly John Winthrop's famous \"City upon a Hill\" sermon of 1630, in which he called for the establishment of a virtuous community that would be a shining example to the Old World. In his influential 1776 pamphlet \"Common Sense\", Thomas Paine echoed this notion, arguing that the American Revolution provided an opportunity to create a new, better society:\nWe have it in our power to begin the world over again. A situation, similar to the present, hath not happened since the days of Noah until now. The birthday of a new world is at hand ...\n\nMany Americans agreed with Paine, and came to believe that the United States' virtue was a result of its special experiment in freedom and democracy. Thomas Jefferson, in a letter to James Monroe, wrote, \"it is impossible not to look forward to distant times when our rapid multiplication will expand itself beyond those limits, and cover the whole northern, if not the southern continent.\" To Americans in the decades that followed their proclaimed freedom for mankind, embodied in the Declaration of Independence, could only be described as the inauguration of \"a new time scale\" because the world would look back and define history as events that took place before, and after, the Declaration of Independence. It followed that Americans owed to the world an obligation to expand and preserve these beliefs.\n\nThe second theme's origination is less precise. A popular expression of America's mission was elaborated by President Abraham Lincoln's description in his December 1, 1862, message to Congress. He described the United States as \"the last, best hope of Earth\". The \"mission\" of the United States was further elaborated during Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, in which he interpreted the Civil War as a struggle to determine if any nation with democratic ideals could survive; this has been called by historian Robert Johannsen \"the most enduring statement of America's Manifest Destiny and mission\".\n\nThe third theme can be viewed as a natural outgrowth of the belief that God had a direct influence in the foundation and further actions of the United States. Clinton Rossiter, a scholar, described this view as summing \"that God, at the proper stage in the march of history, called forth certain hardy souls from the old and privilege-ridden nations ... and that in bestowing his grace He also bestowed a peculiar responsibility\". Americans presupposed that they were not only divinely elected to maintain the North American continent, but also to \"spread abroad the fundamental principles stated in the Bill of Rights\". In many cases this meant neighboring colonial holdings and countries were seen as obstacles rather than the destiny God had provided the United States.\n\nFaragher's analysis of the political polarization between the Democratic Party and the Whig Party is that:\nAnother possible influence is racial predominance, namely the idea that the American Anglo-Saxon race was \"separate, innately superior\" and \"destined to bring good government, commercial prosperity and Christianity to the American continents and the world\". This view also held that \"inferior races were doomed to subordinate status or extinction.\" This was used to justify \"the enslavement of the blacks and the expulsion and possible extermination of the Indians\".\n\nWith the Louisiana Purchase in 1803, which doubled the size of the United States, Thomas Jefferson set the stage for the continental expansion of the United States. Many began to see this as the beginning of a new providential mission: If the United States was successful as a \"shining city upon a hill\", people in other countries would seek to establish their own democratic republics.\n\nHowever, not all Americans or their political leaders believed that the United States was a divinely favored nation, or thought that it ought to expand. For example, many Whigs opposed territorial expansion based on the Democratic claim that the United States was destined to serve as a virtuous example to the rest of the world, and also had a divine obligation to spread its superordinate political system and a way of life throughout North American continent. Many in the Whig party \"were fearful of spreading out too widely\", and they \"adhered to the concentration of national authority in a limited area\". In July 1848, Alexander Stephens denounced President Polk's expansionist interpretation of America's future as \"mendacious\".\n\nIn the mid‑19th century, expansionism, especially southward toward Cuba, also faced opposition from those Americans who were trying to abolish slavery. As more territory was added to the United States in the following decades, \"extending the area of freedom\" in the minds of southerners also meant extending the institution of slavery. That is why slavery became one of the central issues in the continental expansion of the United States before the Civil War.\n\nBefore and during the Civil War both sides claimed that America's destiny were rightfully their own. Lincoln opposed anti-immigrant nativism, and the imperialism of manifest destiny as both unjust and unreasonable. He objected to the Mexican War and believed each of these disordered forms of patriotism threatened the inseparable moral and fraternal bonds of liberty and Union that he sought to perpetuate through a patriotic love of country guided by wisdom and critical self-awareness. Lincoln's \"\", June 6, 1852, provides the most cogent expression of his reflective patriotism.\n\nThe phrase \"manifest destiny\" is most often associated with the territorial expansion of the United States from 1812 to 1860. This era, from the end of the War of 1812 to the beginning of the American Civil War, has been called the \"age of manifest destiny\". During this time, the United States expanded to the Pacific Ocean—\"from sea to shining sea\"—largely defining the borders of the contiguous United States as they are today.\n\nOne of the causes of the War of 1812 may have been an American desire to annex or threaten to annex British Canada in order to stop the Indian raids into the Midwest, expel Britain from North America, and gain additional land. The American victories at the Battle of Lake Erie and the Battle of the Thames in 1813 ended the Indian raids and removed one of the reasons for annexation. The American failure to occupy any significant part of Canada prevented them from annexing it for the second reason, which was largely ended by the Era of Good Feelings, which ensued after the war between Britain and the United States.\n\nTo end the War of 1812 John Quincy Adams, Henry Clay and Albert Gallatin (former Treasury Secretary and a leading expert on Indians) and the other American diplomats negotiated the Treaty of Ghent in 1814 with Britain. They rejected the British plan to set up an Indian state in U.S. territory south of the Great Lakes. They explained the American policy toward acquisition of Indian lands:\nA shocked Henry Goulburn, one of the British negotiators at Ghent, remarked, after coming to understand the American position on taking the Indians' land:\nThe 19th-century belief that the United States would eventually encompass all of North America is known as \"continentalism\", a form of tellurocracy. An early proponent of this idea, John Quincy Adams, became a leading figure in U.S. expansion between the Louisiana Purchase in 1803 and the Polk administration in the 1840s. In 1811, Adams wrote to his father:\n\nThe whole continent of North America appears to be destined by Divine Providence to be peopled by one \"nation\", speaking one language, professing one general system of religious and political principles, and accustomed to one general tenor of social usages and customs. For the common happiness of them all, for their peace and prosperity, I believe it is indispensable that they should be associated in one federal Union.\nAdams did much to further this idea. He orchestrated the Treaty of 1818, which established the Canada–US border as far west as the Rocky Mountains, and provided for the joint occupation of the region known in American history as the Oregon Country and in British and Canadian history as the New Caledonia and Columbia Districts. He negotiated the Transcontinental Treaty in 1819, transferring Florida from Spain to the United States and extending the U.S. border with Spanish Mexico all the way to the Pacific Ocean. And he formulated the Monroe Doctrine of 1823, which warned Europe that the Western Hemisphere was no longer open for European colonization.\n\nThe Monroe Doctrine and \"manifest destiny\" formed a closely related nexus of principles: historian Walter McDougall calls manifest destiny a corollary of the Monroe Doctrine, because while the Monroe Doctrine did not specify expansion, expansion was necessary in order to enforce the Doctrine. Concerns in the United States that European powers (especially Great Britain) were seeking to acquire colonies or greater influence in North America led to calls for expansion in order to prevent this. In his influential 1935 study of manifest destiny, Albert Weinberg wrote: \"the expansionism of the [1830s] arose as a defensive effort to forestall the encroachment of Europe in North America\".\n\nManifest destiny played its most important role in the Oregon boundary dispute between the United States and Britain, when the phrase \"manifest destiny\" originated. The Anglo-American Convention of 1818 had provided for the joint occupation of the Oregon Country, and thousands of Americans migrated there in the 1840s over the Oregon Trail. The British rejected a proposal by U.S. President John Tyler (in office 1841–1845) to divide the region along the 49th parallel, and instead proposed a boundary line farther south along the Columbia River, which would have made most of what later became the state of Washington part of British North America. Advocates of manifest destiny protested and called for the annexation of the entire Oregon Country up to the Alaska line (54°40ʹ N). Presidential candidate James K. Polk used this popular outcry to his advantage, and the Democrats called for the annexation of \"All Oregon\" in the 1844 U.S. Presidential election.\n\nAs president, however, Polk sought compromise and renewed the earlier offer to divide the territory in half along the 49th parallel, to the dismay of the most ardent advocates of manifest destiny. When the British refused the offer, American expansionists responded with slogans such as \"The Whole of Oregon or None!\" and \"Fifty-Four Forty or Fight!\", referring to the northern border of the region. (The latter slogan is often mistakenly described as having been a part of the 1844 presidential campaign.) When Polk moved to terminate the joint occupation agreement, the British finally agreed in early 1846 to divide the region along the 49th parallel, leaving the lower Columbia basin as part of the United States. The Oregon Treaty of 1846 formally settled the dispute; Polk's administration succeeded in selling the treaty to Congress because the United States was about to begin the Mexican–American War, and the president and others argued it would be foolish to also fight the British Empire.\n\nDespite the earlier clamor for \"All Oregon\", the Oregon Treaty was popular in the United States and was easily ratified by the Senate. The most fervent advocates of manifest destiny had not prevailed along the northern border because, according to Reginald Stuart, \"the compass of manifest destiny pointed west and southwest, not north, despite the use of the term 'continentalism.\n\nIn 1869, American historian Frances Fuller Victor published \" in the \"Overland Monthly\", arguing that the efforts of early American fur traders and missionaries presaged American control of Oregon. She concluded the article as follows:\nManifest destiny played an important role in the expansion of Texas and American relationship with Mexico. In 1836, the Republic of Texas declared independence from Mexico and, after the Texas Revolution, sought to join the United States as a new state. This was an idealized process of expansion that had been advocated from Jefferson to O'Sullivan: newly democratic and independent states would request entry into the United States, rather than the United States extending its government over people who did not want it. The annexation of Texas was attacked by anti-slavery spokesmen because it would add another slave state to the Union. Presidents Andrew Jackson and Martin Van Buren declined Texas's offer to join the United States in part because the slavery issue threatened to divide the Democratic Party.\n\nBefore the election of 1844, Whig candidate Henry Clay and the presumed Democratic candidate, former President Van Buren, both declared themselves opposed to the annexation of Texas, each hoping to keep the troublesome topic from becoming a campaign issue. This unexpectedly led to Van Buren being dropped by the Democrats in favor of Polk, who favored annexation. Polk tied the Texas annexation question with the Oregon dispute, thus providing a sort of regional compromise on expansion. (Expansionists in the North were more inclined to promote the occupation of Oregon, while Southern expansionists focused primarily on the annexation of Texas.) Although elected by a very slim margin, Polk proceeded as if his victory had been a mandate for expansion.\n\nAfter the election of Polk, but before he took office, Congress approved the annexation of Texas. Polk moved to occupy a portion of Texas that had declared independence from Mexico in 1836, but was still claimed by Mexico. This paved the way for the outbreak of the Mexican–American War on April 24, 1846. With American successes on the battlefield, by the summer of 1847 there were calls for the annexation of \"All Mexico\", particularly among Eastern Democrats, who argued that bringing Mexico into the Union was the best way to ensure future peace in the region.\n\nThis was a controversial proposition for two reasons. First, idealistic advocates of manifest destiny like John L. O'Sullivan had always maintained that the laws of the United States should not be imposed on people against their will. The annexation of \"All Mexico\" would be a violation of this principle. And secondly, the annexation of Mexico was controversial because it would mean extending U.S. citizenship to millions of Mexicans. Senator John C. Calhoun of South Carolina, who had approved of the annexation of Texas, was opposed to the annexation of Mexico, as well as the \"mission\" aspect of manifest destiny, for racial reasons. He made these views clear in a speech to Congress on January 4, 1848:\n\nWe have never dreamt of incorporating into our Union any but the Caucasian race—the free white race. To incorporate Mexico, would be the very first instance of the kind, of incorporating an Indian race; for more than half of the Mexicans are Indians, and the other is composed chiefly of mixed tribes. I protest against such a union as that! Ours, sir, is the Government of a white race... We are anxious to force free government on all; and I see that it has been urged ... that it is the mission of this country to spread civil and religious liberty over all the world, and especially over this continent. It is a great mistake.\n\nThis debate brought to the forefront one of the contradictions of manifest destiny: on the one hand, while identitarian ideas inherent in manifest destiny suggested that Mexicans, as non-whites, would present a threat to white racial integrity and thus were not qualified to become Americans, the \"mission\" component of manifest destiny suggested that Mexicans would be improved (or \"regenerated\", as it was then described) by bringing them into American democracy. Identitarianism was used to promote manifest destiny, but, as in the case of Calhoun and the resistance to the \"All Mexico\" movement, identitarianism was also used to oppose manifest destiny. Conversely, proponents of annexation of \"All Mexico\" regarded it as an anti-slavery measure.\nThe controversy was eventually ended by the Mexican Cession, which added the territories of Alta California and Nuevo México to the United States, both more sparsely populated than the rest of Mexico. Like the All Oregon movement, the All Mexico movement quickly abated.\n\nHistorian Frederick Merk, in \"Manifest Destiny and Mission in American History: A Reinterpretation\" (1963), argued that the failure of the \"All Oregon\" and \"All Mexico\" movements indicates that manifest destiny had not been as popular as historians have traditionally portrayed it to have been. Merk wrote that, while belief in the beneficent mission of democracy was central to American history, aggressive \"continentalism\" were aberrations supported by only a minority of Americans, all of them Democrats. Some Democrats were also opposed; the Democrats of Louisiana opposed annexation of Mexico, while those in Mississippi supported it.\n\nAfter the Mexican–American War ended in 1848, disagreements over the expansion of slavery made further annexation by conquest too divisive to be official government policy. Some, such as John Quitman, governor of Mississippi, offered what public support they could offer. In one memorable case, Quitman simply explained that the state of Mississippi had \"lost\" its state arsenal, which began showing up in the hands of filibusters. Yet these isolated cases only solidified opposition in the North as many Northerners were increasingly opposed to what they believed to be efforts by Southern slave owners—and their friends in the North—to expand slavery through filibustering. Sarah P. Remond on January 24, 1859, delivered an impassioned speech at Warrington, England, that the connection between filibustering and slave power was clear proof of \"the mass of corruption that underlay the whole system of American government\". The Wilmot Proviso and the continued \"Slave Power\" narratives thereafter, indicated the degree to which manifest destiny had become part of the sectional controversy.\n\nWithout official government support the most radical advocates of manifest destiny increasingly turned to military filibustering. Originally filibuster had come from the Dutch \"vrijbuiter\" and referred to buccaneers in the West Indies that preyed on Spanish commerce. While there had been some filibustering expeditions into Canada in the late 1830s, it was only by mid-century did filibuster become a definitive term. By then, declared the \"New-York Daily Times\" \"the fever of Fillibusterism is on our country. Her pulse beats like a hammer at the wrist, and there's a very high color on her face.\" Millard Fillmore's second annual message to Congress, submitted in December 1851, gave double the amount of space to filibustering activities than the brewing sectional conflict. The eagerness of the filibusters, and the public to support them, had an international hue. Clay's son, diplomat to Portugal, reported that Lisbon had been stirred into a \"frenzy\" of excitement and were waiting on every dispatch.\nAlthough they were illegal, filibustering operations in the late 1840s and early 1850s were romanticized in the United States. The Democratic Party's national platform included a plank that specifically endorsed William Walker's filibustering in Nicaragua. Wealthy American expansionists financed dozens of expeditions, usually based out of New Orleans, New York, and San Francisco. The primary target of manifest destiny's filibusters was Latin America but there were isolated incidents elsewhere. Mexico was a favorite target of organizations devoted to filibustering, like the Knights of the Golden Circle. William Walker got his start as a filibuster in an ill-advised attempt to separate the Mexican states Sonora and Baja California. Narciso López, a near second in fame and success, spent his efforts trying to secure Cuba from the Spanish Empire.\n\nThe United States had long been interested in acquiring Cuba from the declining Spanish Empire. As with Texas, Oregon, and California, American policy makers were concerned that Cuba would fall into British hands, which, according to the thinking of the Monroe Doctrine, would constitute a threat to the interests of the United States. Prompted by John L. O'Sullivan, in 1848 President Polk offered to buy Cuba from Spain for $100 million. Polk feared that filibustering would hurt his effort to buy the island, and so he informed the Spanish of an attempt by the Cuban filibuster Narciso López to seize Cuba by force and annex it to the United States, foiling the plot. Nevertheless, Spain declined to sell the island, which ended Polk's efforts to acquire Cuba. O'Sullivan, on the other hand eventually landed in legal trouble.\n\nFilibustering continued to be a major concern for presidents after Polk. Whigs presidents Zachary Taylor and Millard Fillmore tried to suppress the expeditions. When the Democrats recaptured the White House in 1852 with the election of Franklin Pierce, a filibustering effort by John A. Quitman to acquire Cuba received the tentative support of the president. Pierce backed off, however, and instead renewed the offer to buy the island, this time for $130 million. When the public learned of the Ostend Manifesto in 1854, which argued that the United States could seize Cuba by force if Spain refused to sell, this effectively killed the effort to acquire the island. The public now linked expansion with slavery; if manifest destiny had once enjoyed widespread popular approval, this was no longer true.\n\nFilibusters like William Walker continued to garner headlines in the late 1850s, but to little effect. Expansionism was among the various issues that played a role in the coming of the war. With the divisive question of the expansion of slavery, Northerners and Southerners, in effect, were coming to define manifest destiny in different ways, undermining nationalism as a unifying force. According to Frederick Merk, \"The doctrine of Manifest Destiny, which in the 1840s had seemed Heaven-sent, proved to have been a bomb wrapped up in idealism.\"\n\nThe Homestead Act of 1862 encouraged 600,000 families to settle the West by giving them land (usually 160 acres) almost free. They had to live on and improve the land for five years. Before the Civil War, Southern leaders opposed the Homestead Acts because they feared it would lead to more free states and free territories. After the mass resignation of Southern senators and representatives at the beginning of the war, Congress was subsequently able to pass the Homestead Act.\n\nManifest destiny had serious consequences for Native Americans, since continental expansion implicitly meant the occupation and annexation of Native American land, sometimes to expand slavery. This ultimately led to confrontations and wars with several groups of native peoples via Indian removal. The United States continued the European practice of recognizing only limited land rights of indigenous peoples. In a policy formulated largely by Henry Knox, Secretary of War in the Washington Administration, the U.S. government sought to expand into the west through the purchase of Native American land in treaties. Only the Federal Government could purchase Indian lands and this was done through treaties with tribal leaders. Whether a tribe actually had a decision-making structure capable of making a treaty was a controversial issue. The national policy was for the Indians to join American society and become \"civilized\", which meant no more wars with neighboring tribes or raids on white settlers or travelers, and a shift from hunting to farming and ranching. Advocates of civilization programs believed that the process of settling native tribes would greatly reduce the amount of land needed by the Native Americans, making more land available for homesteading by white Americans. Thomas Jefferson believed that while American Indians were the intellectual equals of whites, they had to live like the whites or inevitably be pushed aside by them. Jefferson's belief, rooted in Enlightenment thinking, that whites and Native Americans would merge to create a single nation did not last his lifetime, and he began to believe that the natives should emigrate across the Mississippi River and maintain a separate society, an idea made possible by the Louisiana Purchase of 1803.\n\nIn the age of manifest destiny, this idea, which came to be known as \"Indian removal\", gained ground. Humanitarian advocates of removal believed that American Indians would be better off moving away from whites. As historian Reginald Horsman argued in his influential study \"Race and Manifest Destiny\", racial rhetoric increased during the era of manifest destiny. Americans increasingly believed that Native American ways of life would \"fade away\" as the United States expanded. As an example, this idea was reflected in the work of one of America's first great historians, Francis Parkman, whose landmark book \"The Conspiracy of Pontiac\" was published in 1851. Parkman wrote that after the British conquest of Canada in 1760, Indians were \"destined to melt and vanish before the advancing waves of Anglo-American power, which now rolled westward unchecked and unopposed\". Parkman emphasized that the collapse of Indian power in the late 18th century had been swift and was a past event.\n\nAs the Civil War faded into history, the term \"manifest destiny\" experienced a brief revival. Protestant missionary Josiah Strong, in his best seller of 1885 \"Our Country\", argued that the future was devolved upon America since it had perfected the ideals of civil liberty, \"a pure spiritual Christianity\", and concluded, \"My plea is not, Save America for America's sake, but, Save America for the world's sake.\"\n\nIn the 1892 U.S. presidential election, the Republican Party platform proclaimed: \"We reaffirm our approval of the Monroe doctrine and believe in the achievement of the manifest destiny of the Republic in its broadest sense.\" What was meant by \"manifest destiny\" in this context was not clearly defined, particularly since the Republicans lost the election.\n\nIn the 1896 election, however, the Republicans recaptured the White House and held on to it for the next 16 years. During that time, manifest destiny was cited to promote overseas expansion. Whether or not this version of manifest destiny was consistent with the continental expansionism of the 1840s was debated at the time, and long afterwards.\n\nFor example, when President William McKinley advocated annexation of the Republic of Hawaii in 1898, he said that \"We need Hawaii just as much and a good deal more than we did California. It is manifest destiny.\" On the other hand, former President Grover Cleveland, a Democrat who had blocked the annexation of Hawaii during his administration, wrote that McKinley's annexation of the territory was a \"perversion of our national destiny\". Historians continued that debate; some have interpreted American acquisition of other Pacific island groups in the 1890s as an extension of manifest destiny across the Pacific Ocean. Others have regarded it as the antithesis of manifest destiny and merely imperialism.\n\nIn 1898, the United States intervened in the Cuban insurrection and launched the Spanish–American War to force Spain out. According to the terms of the Treaty of Paris, Spain relinquished sovereignty over Cuba and ceded the Philippine Islands, Puerto Rico, and Guam to the United States. The terms of cession for the Philippines involved a payment of the sum of $20 million by the United States to Spain. The treaty was highly contentious and denounced by William Jennings Bryan, who tried to make it a central issue in the 1900 election. He was defeated in landslide by McKinley.\n\nThe Teller Amendment, passed unanimously by the U.S. Senate before the war, which proclaimed Cuba \"free and independent\", forestalled annexation of the island. The Platt Amendment (1902), however, established Cuba as a virtual protectorate of the United States.\n\nThe acquisition of Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines after the war with Spain marked a new chapter in U.S. history. Traditionally, territories were acquired by the United States for the purpose of becoming new states on equal footing with already existing states. These islands, however, were acquired as colonies rather than prospective states. The process was validated by the Insular Cases. The Supreme Court ruled that full constitutional rights did not automatically extend to all areas under American control. Nevertheless, in 1917, Puerto Ricans were all made full American citizens via the Jones Act. This also provided for a popularly elected legislature and a bill of rights, and authorized the election of a Resident Commissioner who has a voice (but no vote) in Congress.\n\nAccording to Frederick Merk, these colonial acquisitions marked a break from the original intention of manifest destiny. Previously, \"Manifest Destiny had contained a principle so fundamental that a Calhoun and an O'Sullivan could agree on it—that a people not capable of rising to statehood should never be annexed. That was the principle thrown overboard by the imperialism of 1899.\" Albert J. Beveridge maintained the contrary at his September 25, 1900, speech in the Auditorium, at Chicago. He declared that the current desire for Cuba and the other acquired territories was identical to the views expressed by Washington, Jefferson and Marshall. Moreover, \"the sovereignty of the Stars and Stripes can be nothing but a blessing to any people and to any land.\" The Philippines was eventually given its independence in 1946; Guam and Puerto Rico have special status to this day, but all their people have United States citizenship.\n\nThe English poet Rudyard Kipling wrote \"The White Man's Burden\" to Americans, calling on them to take up their share of the burden. Subtitled \"The United States and the Philippine Islands\", it was a widely noted expression of imperialist sentiments, which were common at the time. The nascent revolutionary government desirous of independence, however, resisted the United States in the Philippine–American War in 1899; it won no support from any government anywhere and collapsed when its leader was captured. William Jennings Bryan denounced the war and any form of overseas expansion, writing, Destiny' is not as manifest as it was a few weeks ago.\"\n\nThe belief in an American mission to promote and defend democracy throughout the world, as expounded by Thomas Jefferson and his \"Empire of Liberty\", and continued by Abraham Lincoln, Woodrow Wilson and George W. Bush, continues to have an influence on American political ideology. Under Douglas MacArthur, the Americans \"were imbued with a sense of manifest destiny\" says historian John Dower.\nAfter the turn of the nineteenth century to the twentieth, the phrase \"manifest destiny\" declined in usage, as territorial expansion ceased to be promoted as being a part of America's \"destiny\". Under President Theodore Roosevelt the role of the United States in the New World was defined, in the 1904 Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine, as being an \"international police power\" to secure American interests in the Western Hemisphere. Roosevelt's corollary contained an explicit rejection of territorial expansion. In the past, manifest destiny had been seen as necessary to enforce the Monroe Doctrine in the Western Hemisphere, but now expansionism had been replaced by interventionism as a means of upholding the doctrine.\n\nPresident Woodrow Wilson continued the policy of interventionism in the Americas, and attempted to redefine both manifest destiny and America's \"mission\" on a broader, worldwide scale. Wilson led the United States into World War I with the argument that \"The world must be made safe for democracy.\" In his 1920 message to Congress after the war, Wilson stated:\n... I think we all realize that the day has come when Democracy is being put upon its final test. The Old World is just now suffering from a wanton rejection of the principle of democracy and a substitution of the principle of autocracy as asserted in the name, but without the authority and sanction, of the multitude. This is the time of all others when Democracy should prove its purity and its spiritual power to prevail. It is surely the manifest destiny of the United States to lead in the attempt to make this spirit prevail.\n\nThis was the only time a president had used the phrase \"manifest destiny\" in his annual address. Wilson's version of manifest destiny was a rejection of expansionism and an endorsement (in principle) of self-determination, emphasizing that the United States had a mission to be a world leader for the cause of democracy. This U.S. vision of itself as the leader of the \"Free World\" would grow stronger in the 20th century after World War II, although rarely would it be described as \"manifest destiny\", as Wilson had done.\n\n\"Manifest destiny\" is sometimes used by critics of U.S. foreign policy to characterize interventions in the Middle East and elsewhere. In this usage, \"manifest destiny\" is interpreted as the underlying cause of what is denounced by some as \"American imperialism\". A more positive-sounding phrase devised by scholars at the end of the twentieth century is \"nation building\", and State Department official Karin Von Hippel notes that the U.S. has \"been involved in nation-building and promoting democracy since the middle of the nineteenth century and 'Manifest Destiny.\n\nGerman geographer Friedrich Ratzel visited North America beginning in 1873 and saw the effects of American manifest destiny. Ratzel sympathized with the results of \"manifest destiny\", but he never used the term. Instead he relied on the Frontier Thesis of Frederick Jackson Turner. Ratzel promoted overseas colonies for Germany in Asia and Africa, but not an expansion into Slavic lands. Later German publicists reappropriated Ratzel to argue for the right of the German race to expand within Europe; that notion was later incorporated into Nazi ideology, as \"Lebensraum\". Harriet Wanklyn (1961) argues that Ratzel's theory was designed to advance science, and that politicians distorted it for political goals.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355462", "title": "Monte Albán", "text": "Monte Albán\n\nMonte Albán is a large pre-Columbian archaeological site in the Santa Cruz Xoxocotlán Municipality in the southern Mexican state of Oaxaca (17.043° N, 96.767°W). The site is located on a low mountainous range rising above the plain in the central section of the Valley of Oaxaca where the latter's northern Etla, eastern Tlacolula, and southern Zimatlán & Ocotlán (or Valle Grande) branches meet. The present-day state capital Oaxaca City is located approximately east of Monte Albán.\n\nThe partially excavated civic-ceremonial center of the Monte Albán site is situated atop an artificially-leveled ridge, which with an elevation of about above mean sea level rises some from the valley floor, in an easily defensible location. In addition to the monumental core, the site is characterized by several hundred artificial terraces, and a dozen clusters of mounded architecture covering the entire ridgeline and surrounding flanks. The archaeological ruins on the nearby Atzompa and El Gallo hills to the north are traditionally considered to be an integral part of the ancient city as well.\n\nBesides being one of the earliest cities of Mesoamerica, Monte Albán's importance stems also from its role as the pre-eminent Zapotec socio-political and economic center for close to a thousand years. Founded toward the end of the Middle Formative period at around 500 BC, by the Terminal Formative (ca.100 BC-AD 200) Monte Albán had become the capital of a large-scale expansionist polity that dominated much of the Oaxacan highlands and interacted with other Mesoamerican regional states such as Teotihuacan to the north (Paddock 1983; Marcus 1983). The city had lost its political pre-eminence by the end of the Late Classic (ca. AD 500-750) and soon thereafter was largely abandoned. Small-scale reoccupation, opportunistic reutilization of earlier structures and tombs, and ritual visitations marked the archaeological history of the site into the Colonial period.\n\nThe etymology of the site's present-day name is unclear, and tentative suggestions regarding its origin range from a presumed corruption of a native Zapotec name to a colonial-era reference to a Spanish soldier by the name Montalbán or to the Alban Hills of Italy. The ancient Zapotec name of the city is not known, as abandonment occurred centuries before the writing of the earliest available ethnohistorical sources.\n\nBeing visible from anywhere in the central part of the Valley of Oaxaca, the impressive ruins of Monte Albán attracted visitors and explorers throughout the colonial and modern eras. Among others, Guillermo Dupaix investigated the site in the early 19th century CE, J. M. García published a description of the site in 1859, and A. F. Bandelier visited and published further descriptions in the 1890s. A first intensive archaeological exploration of the site was conducted in 1902 by Leopoldo Batres, then General Inspector of Monuments for the Mexican government under Porfirio Diaz. It was however only in 1931 that large-scale scientific excavations were undertaken under the direction of Mexican archaeologist Alfonso Caso. In 1933, Eulalia Guzmán assisted with the excavation of Tomb 7. Over the following eighteen years Caso and his colleagues Ignacio Bernal and Jorge Acosta excavated large sections within the monumental core of the site, and much of what is visible today in areas open to the public was reconstructed at that time. Besides resulting in the excavation of a large number of residential and civic-ceremonial structures and hundreds of tombs and burials, one lasting achievement of the project by Caso and his colleagues was the establishment of a ceramic chronology (phases Monte Albán I through V) for the period between the site's founding in ca. 500 BCE to end of the Postclassic period in CE 1521.\n\nThe investigation of the periods preceding Monte Albán's founding was a major focus of the Prehistory and Human Ecology Project started by Kent Flannery of the University of Michigan in the late 1960s. Over the following two decades this project documented the development of socio-political complexity in the valley from the earliest Archaic period (ca. 8000-2000 BCE) to the Rosario phase (700-500 BCE) immediately preceding Monte Albán, thus setting the stage for an understanding of the latter's founding and developmental trajectory. In this context, among the major accomplishments of Flannery's work in Oaxaca are his extensive excavations at the important formative center of San José Mogote in the Etla branch of the valley, a project co-directed with Joyce Marcus of the University of Michigan.\n\nA further important step in the understanding of the history of occupation of the Monte Albán site was reached with the Prehistoric Settlement Patterns in the Valley of Oaxaca Project begun by Richard Blanton and several colleagues in the early 1970s. It is only with their intensive survey and mapping of the entire site that the real extension and size of Monte Albán beyond the limited area explored by Caso became known. Subsequent seasons of the same project under the direction of Blanton, Gary Feinman, Steve Kowalewski, Linda Nicholas, and others extended the survey coverage to practically the entire valley, producing an invaluable amount of data on the region's changing settlement patterns from the earliest times to the arrival of the Spanish in CE 1521.\n\nAs indicated by Blanton's survey of the site, the Monte Albán hills appear to have been uninhabited prior to 500 BCE (the end of the Rosario ceramic phase). At that time, San José Mogote was the major population center in the valley and head of a chiefdom that likely controlled much of the northern Etla branch. Perhaps as many as three or four other smaller chiefly centers controlled other sub-regions of the valley, including Tilcajete in the southern Valle Grande branch and Yegüih in the Tlacolula arm to the east. Competition and warfare seem to have characterized the Rosario phase, and the regional survey data suggests the existence of an unoccupied buffer zone between the San José Mogote chiefdom and those to the south and east. It is within this no-man's land that at the end of the Rosario period Monte Albán was founded, quickly reaching a population estimate of around 5,200 by the end of the following Monte Albán Ia phase (ca.300 BCE). This remarkable population increase was accompanied by an equally rapid decline at San José Mogote and neighbouring satellite sites, making it likely that its chiefly elites were directly involved in the founding of the future Zapotec capital. This rapid shift in population and settlement, from dispersed localized settlements to a central urban site in a previously unsettled area, has been referred to as the “Monte Alban Synoikism” by Marcus and Flannery in reference to similar recorded instances in the Mediterranean area in antiquity. Although it was previously thought that a similar process of large-scale abandonment, and thus participation in the founding of Monte Albán, occurred at other major chiefly centers such as Yegüih and Tilcajete, at least in the latter's case this now appears to be unlikely. A recent project directed by Charles Spencer and Elsa Redmond of the American Museum of Natural History in New York has shown that rather than being abandoned the site actually grew significantly in population during the periods Monte Albán Early I and Late I (ca. 500-300 BCE and 300-100 BCE, respectively) and might have actively opposed incorporation into the increasingly powerful Monte Albán state. \nBy the beginning of the Terminal Formative (Monte Albán II phase, ca. 100 BCE-CE 200) Monte Albán had an estimated population of 17,200, making it one of the largest Mesoamerican cities at the time. As its political power grew, Monte Albán expanded militarily, through cooption, and via outright colonization into several areas outside the Valley of Oaxaca, including the Cañada de Cuicatlán to the north and the southern Ejutla and Sola de Vega valleys.(Feinman and Nicholas 1990) During this period and into the subsequent Early Classic (Monte Albán IIIA phase, ca. CE 200-500) Monte Albán was the capital of a major regional polity that exerted a dominating influence over the Valley of Oaxaca and across much of the Oaxacan highlands. As mentioned earlier, evidence at Monte Albán is suggestive of high-level contacts between the site's elites and those at the powerful central Mexican city of Teotihuacan, where archaeologists have identified a neighbourhood inhabited by ethnic Zapotecs from the valley of Oaxaca (Paddock 1983). By the Late Classic (Monte Albán IIIB/IV, ca. CE 500-1000) the site's influence outside and inside the valley declined, and elites at several other centers, once part of the Monte Albán state, began to assert their autonomy, including sites such as Cuilapan and Zaachila in the Valle Grande and Lambityeco, Mitla, and El Palmillo in the eastern Tlacolula arm. The latter is the focus of an ongoing project by Gary Feinman and Linda Nicholas of Chicago's Field Museum (Feinman and Nicholas 2002). By the end of the same period (ca. AD 900-1000) the ancient capital was largely abandoned, and the once powerful Monte Albán state was replaced by dozens of competing smaller polities, a situation that lasted up to the Spanish conquest.\n\nThe monumental center of Monte Albán is the Main Plaza, which measures approximately 300 meters by 200 meters. The site's main civic-ceremonial and elite-residential structures are located around it or in its immediate vicinity, and most of these have been explored and restored by Alfonso Caso and his colleagues.\nTo the north and south the Main Plaza is delimited by large platforms accessible from the plaza via monumental staircases. On its eastern and western sides the plaza is similarly bounded by a number of smaller platform mounds on which stood temples and elite residences, as well as one of two ballcourts known to have existed at the site. A north-south spine of mounds occupies the center of the plaza and similarly served as platforms for ceremonial structures.\nOne characteristic of Monte Albán is the large number of carved stone monuments one encounters throughout the plaza. The earliest examples are the so-called \"Danzantes\" (literally, dancers), found mostly in the vicinity of Building L and which represent naked men in contorted and twisted poses, some of them genitally mutilated. The figures are said to represent sacrificial victims, which explains the morbid characteristics of the figures. The Danzantes feature physical traits characteristic of Olmec culture. The 19th century notion that they depict dancers is now largely discredited, and these monuments, dating to the earliest period of occupation at the site (Monte Albán I), are now seen to clearly represent tortured, sacrificed war prisoners, some identified by name, and may depict leaders of competing centers and villages captured by Monte Albán.(Blanton et al. 1996) Over 300 “Danzantes” stones have been recorded to date, and some of the better preserved ones can be viewed at the site's museum. There is some indication that the Zapotecs had writing and calendrical notation.\n\nA different type of carved stones is found on the nearby Building J in the center of the Main Plaza, a building characterized by an unusual arrow-like shape and an orientation that differs from most other structures at the site. Inserted within the building walls are over 40 large carved slabs dating to Monte Albán II and depicting place-names, occasionally accompanied by additional writing and in many cases characterized by upside-down heads. Alfonso Caso was the first to identify these stones as \"conquest slabs\", likely listing places the Monte Albán elites claimed to have conquered and/or controlled. Some of the places listed on Building J slabs have been tentatively identified, and in one case (the Cañada de Cuicatlán region in northern Oaxaca) Zapotec conquest has been confirmed through archaeological survey and excavations.\n\nThe site of Monte Alban contains several pieces of evidence through the architecture of the site to suggest that there was social stratification within the settlement. Walls that were as large as nine meters tall and twenty meters wide were built around the settlement and would have been used not only to create a boundary between Monte Alban and neighboring settlements but also prove the power of the elites within the community. In Scott Hutson’s analysis of the relationships between the commoners and the elites in Monte Alban he notes that the monumental mounds that were found in the site seemed to be evenly spaced throughout the site so that each house would be close enough to a mound that it could easily be kept under surveillance. Hutson also makes note that over time the style of houses seem to have changed to become more private to those living in the buildings making it harder for information to be obtained by outsiders. These changes to the ability of the elites to gain information about the private lives of its citizens would have played a key role in the internal political structure of the settlement.\n\nMany of the artifacts excavated at Monte Albán in over a century of archaeological exploration can be seen at the Museo Nacional de Antropologia in Mexico City and at the Museo Regional de Oaxaca in the ex-convento de Santo Domingo de Guzmán in Oaxaca City. The latter museum houses, among others, many of the objects discovered in 1932 by Alfonso Caso in Monte Albán's \"Tomb 7\", a Classic period Zapotec tomb that was opportunistically reused in Postclassic times for the burial of Mixtec elite individuals. Their burial was accompanied by some of the most spectacular burial offerings of any site in the Americas.\n\nMonte Albán is a popular tourist destination for visitors to Oaxaca and has a small site museum mostly displaying original carved stones from the site. The site received 429,702 visitors in 2017.\n\nThe primary threat to this archaeological site is urban growth that is encroaching and \"threatening to expand into territories that have potential archaeological value.\"<ref name=\"ICOMOS Heritage at Risk 2001/2002\"></ref> To complicate matters, the administration of the site is divided amongst four different municipalities, making a unified effort to stop the urban encroachment challenging.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26681598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26681598", "title": "Mughal Serai", "text": "Mughal Serai\n\nMughal Serai is situated at village Shambhu on Sher Shah Suri Marg, near Rajpura at .\n\nThe serai was built by Mughals as part of caravans of Serai on G.T.Road to provide shelter to Mughal army on journey from Peshawar to Dhaka.\n\nIt has been well-maintained by the Punjab Archaeology Department as a tourist spot.\n\n"}
{"id": "31572332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31572332", "title": "MyLink", "text": "MyLink\n\nMyLink a.k.a. Intellilink is a telematics system/infotainment system offered by General Motors vehicles starting in the 2012 model year. \n\nIt is offered in all GM brands aside from Cadillac, who uses their exclusive CUE infotainment system. The MyLink name is used for vehicles under the Chevrolet and Holden brands, while the Intellilink name is used for Buick, GMC, Vauxhall and Opel. MyLink systems are manufactured by three companies for GM, Panasonic for most MyLink models, LG Electronics for the unit equipped on the Chevrolet Sonic, Chevrolet Spark, Chevrolet Trax and Vauxhall/Opel Adam, and Bosch for Cadillac's CUE system.\n\nThe system is based on QNX real-time operating system and voice recognition software from Nuance. It allows users to control online services through apps, like Pandora Internet Radio or Stitcher Radio through voice commands or the touch-screen interface. The car is able to access online content via a smartphone with a 3G data connection connected through Bluetooth. Users are also able to control their phone wirelessly via the same interface. MyLink also integrates OnStar's services (Advanced Automatic Collision Notification, roadside assistance, vehicle diagnostics information, live advisors, and turn-by-turn navigation).\n\nMyLink can play video and image files in select formats. Images should be in .jpg, .bmp, .png, or .gif format. Video files should be .avi, .mpg, .mp4, .divx, .xvid, or .wmv. Additionally, MyLink supports a large variety of song file formats, including MP3, WMA, and AAC. It also supports the following playlist files M3U standard and extended, iTunes, PLS, WAX, ASX and RMP.\n\n\nNote that the supported features and services vary from model to model. For example, MyLink in the Chevrolet Sonic and Spark models does not support Gracenote (since those models have no CD player) or climate control. The screen size, trim and appearance vary from model to model as well.\n\nAdditional features have been announced by Chevrolet for delivery in calendar year 2013.\n\nIntellilink is the branding for MyLink used by Buick, GMC, Vauxhall and Opel. It is basically the same system as MyLink with the only differences being the graphic interface used.\n\nOriginally the MyLink systems were set to be available on select 2012 model year vehicles before the end of 2011, however that was pushed back until \"Spring 2012\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n-The MyLink 4.2 features an A/M-F/M radio, an auxiliary audio input jack, and a USB port, plus a 4.2\" color display screen. OnStar is an available option. This system is only available on the Chevrolet Silverado W/T Work Truck models.\n\n-The upgraded MyLink 4.2 adds a CD player with MP3 player and WMA support, plus Bluetooth with A2DP Stereo Audio Streaming capabilities. OnStar is an available option, as is Sirius XM Satellite Radio. This system is available on the Chevrolet Silverado, Chevrolet Impala, and Chevrolet Colorado models.\n\n-The MyLink Apps features an A/M-F/M radio, an auxiliary audio input jack, a USB port, support for mobile apps, a full color touch screen display, OnStar, voice command capabilities that use the connected devices' voice command systems, OnStar, Siri Eyes-Free support, Bluetooth with A2DP Stereo Audio Streaming capabilities, mobile apps support, an SD card slot, Sirius XM Satellite Radio, and BringGo GPS navigation system support developed by EnGIS Technologies, Inc. This system is available on the Opel Adam, Chevrolet Spark, and Chevrolet Sonic models.\n\n-The MyLink Color Touch features an A/M-F/M radio, an auxiliary audio input jack, a USB port, a full color touch screen display, voice command, Bluetooth with A2DP Stereo Audio Streaming capabilities, steering wheel-mounted audio system controls, Sirius XM Satellite Radio, OnStar, an SD card slot, and HDD for storing music onto the system. A CD player is an available option, and is standard with most MyLink Touch systems. This radio also works with mobile apps.\n\n-The MyLink Color Touch with Navigation adds a GPS navigation system to the MyLink Color Touch radio. On Chevrolet Camaro models equipped with this radio, the CD player option is not available.\n\n-The MyLink Color Touch radios on Chevrolet Impala models and Chevrolet Malibu models slide out or slide up from the dashboard to reveal a hidden storage compartment for storing items such as MP3 players, cellular phones, and other devices and items behind the touch screen.\n\n-The Mylink/IntelliLink Color Touch also features HD Radio as a standard on selected GM models in the United States. As of the 2015 model year (which began in August 2014), the Chevrolet Suburban/GMC Yukon XL & Denali XL, Chevrolet Tahoe/GMC Yukon & Denali, and the GMC Acadia are the only vehicles equipped with HD Radio as a standard on all trims. It had been featured as a standard on the Chevrolet Impala and Silverado/GMC Sierra and on the Chevrolet Traverse as an optional, and as a standard on the Buick Regal and Enclave for the 2014 model year, but were removed for the 2015 model year.\n"}
{"id": "46874469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46874469", "title": "Palais am Festungsgraben", "text": "Palais am Festungsgraben\n\nThe Palais am Festungsgraben (“Palace on the Moat”), originally known as the Palais Donner, is a stately building in Berlin’s Mitte subdistrict located behind, and facing, the ensemble of chestnut trees around the \"Neue Wache\" (“New Guardhause”), near the eastern terminus of the boulevard \"Unter den Linden\". The name refers to its construction next to a redundant canal, gradually filled in by 1883, which had originally been a moat surrounding the 17th century city wall. Built as a private residence, it later housed a succession of Prussian government offices, and after World War II various cultural institutions in the Soviet sector of Berlin. After administrative authority was transferred to the newly established German Democratic Republic (GDR) in 1949 it hosted a succession of institutions established to further German-Russian contacts. Since German reunification it has accommodated a theater (\"Theater im Palais\") and from 2004 an art gallery (\"Saarländische Galerie – Europäisches Kunstforum e.V.\").\n\nBy royal order King Friedrich II of Prussia presented the plot to his valet, Johann Gottfried Donner, on 7 November 1751. Donner had the palace constructed from 1751 to 1753 following plans by the court architect Friedrich Feldmann. Donner and his family lived on the ground floor of the palace and on the first upper storey (\"bel étage\") Donner installed a large, elegant hall for public festivities as well as a private residence, which was rented to the administrator of the Prussian mint, Johann Philipp Graumann. The attic was used to store and air bulk grain, and at the back of the lot Donner laid out a garden with an underground cold storage room (\"Eiskeller\") and a carriage house, using the remaining space to run a flourishing trade in timber.\n\nAfter Donner’s death in 1787 the Prussian Finance Ministry purchased the palace and provided lodgings on the top floor for its senior officers. In 1797 the right side wing was raised one storey. The reformist Prussian statesman Heinrich Friedrich Karl vom und zum Stein lived there from 1804 to 1806. In 1863-1864 the building was altered according to plans by the architects Georg Heinrich Bürde and Hermann von der Hude, who redesigned the main staircase and laid out a sequence of several prestigious interconnected rooms on the \"bel étage\". From 1906 until 1944 the palace was the official headquarters of the Prussian Finance Ministry and the residence of 48 ministers. Further modifications took place in 1934 when the Prussian finance minister Johannes Popitz built into the eastern ground floor room the formal dining room of the historic Weydinger House on Unterwasserstrasse. The hall was of high artistic value, being the only remaining example of interior decoration by the prominent Prussian architect Karl Friedrich Schinkel, who had designed the banquet room of this private residence in 1830. Owned by the Prussian state since 1860, Weydinger House was torn down to construct the \"Reichsbank\", the central bank of Germany from 1876 until 1945.\n\nIn World War II the palace was slightly damaged in air strikes and by combat taking place at the end of the war. The Soviet Military Administration in Germany (SMAD) had the building repaired and used it for various purposes, opening it to the public in 1947 as the House of Soviet Culture (\"Haus der Kultur der Sowjetunion\"). In 1949, now as an institution of the GDR, it became the House of German-Soviet Friendship (run by the \"Gesellschaft für Deutsch-Sowjetische Freundschaft\"). As one of the so-called mass organizations of the GDR, it had the mandate to convey to the German population knowledge about the culture and society of the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter German reunification the listed building came under the ownership of the Federal State of Berlin, was extensively renovated, and renamed \"Palais am Festungsgraben\". Since its founding in 1991 the 99-seat, innovative \"Theater im Palais\" has been located on the ground floor, and in September 2004 the federal state of Saarland rented 200 square meters of exhibition space in the palace for an art gallery, the \"Saarländische Galerie\", featuring work by contemporary artists from the Czech Republic, France, Luxemburg, and Belgium as well as from Saarland and Berlin.\n\n\"(This article incorporates information from the German Wikipedia)\"\n"}
{"id": "12249040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12249040", "title": "Post-democracy", "text": "Post-democracy\n\nThe term post-democracy was coined by Warwick University political scientist Colin Crouch in 2000 in his book \"Coping with Post-Democracy\". It designates states that operate by democratic systems (elections are held, governments fall, freedom of speech), but whose application is progressively limited. A small elite is taking the tough decisions and co-opts the democratic institutions. Crouch further developed the idea in an article called \"Is there a liberalism beyond social democracy?\" for the think tank Policy Network and in his subsequent book \"The Strange Non-Death of Neo-Liberalism\".\n\nThe term was used by Crouch to design an evolution within democracies during the 21st century. It is a polemical term because it calls attention to recognized democracies that are losing some of their foundations and evolving towards an aristocratic regime.\n\nThe term may also denote a general conception of a post-democratic system that may involve other structures of group decision-making and governance than the ones found in contemporary or historical democracy.\n\nBy Crouch's definition:\nCrouch states that we are not \"living in a post-democratic society, but that we were moving towards such a condition\".\n\nCrouch names the following reasons:\n\nAs a consequence:\n\nAccording to Crouch there is an important task for social media in which voters can participate more actively in public debates. In addition, these voters would have to join advocacy groups for specific interests. The citizens have to reclaim their place in decision making. He calls this post-post-democracy.\n\nThe Occupy movement was a form of more or less disorganized opposition that grew out of the dissatisfaction with to the power of the banking industry.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "175849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175849", "title": "Quiriguá", "text": "Quiriguá\n\nQuiriguá () is an ancient Maya archaeological site in the department of Izabal in south-eastern Guatemala. It is a medium-sized site covering approximately along the lower Motagua River, with the ceremonial center about from the north bank. During the Maya Classic Period (AD 200–900), Quiriguá was situated at the juncture of several important trade routes. The site was occupied by 200, construction on the acropolis had begun by about 550, and an explosion of grander construction started in the 8th century. All construction had halted by about 850, except for a brief period of reoccupation in the Early Postclassic (\"c\". 900 – \"c\". 1200). Quiriguá shares its architectural and sculptural styles with the nearby Classic Period city of Copán, with whose history it is closely entwined.\n\nQuiriguá's rapid expansion in the 8th century was tied to king K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat's military victory over Copán in 738. When the greatest king of Copán, Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil or \"18-Rabbit\", was defeated, he was captured and then sacrificed in the Great Plaza at Quiriguá. Before this, Quiriguá had been a vassal state of Copán, but it maintained its independence afterwards. The ceremonial architecture at Quiriguá is quite modest, but the site's importance lies in its wealth of sculpture, including the tallest stone monumental sculpture ever erected in the New World.\n\nThe archaeological site of Quiriguá is named after the nearby village of the same name, and is located a little over northeast of Guatemala City; it lies in the municipality of Los Amates in the department of Izabal and has an elevation of above mean sea level.\n\nPositioned on the north bank of the lower reaches of the Motagua River, Quiriguá is situated at the point where the valley broadens into a flood plain, which has exposed the site to periodic flooding over the centuries. Although the river passed close to the site during the period of the city's occupation, it has since changed course and now flows south of the ceremonial centre. Quiriguá is north of Copán, and is located north-west of the international border with Honduras.\n\nThe local bedrock is a hard red sandstone, which the inhabitants used in the construction of monuments and architecture. This local sandstone is very strong and not prone to shearing or fracturing, allowing the sculptors at Quiriguá to erect the tallest freestanding stone monuments in the Americas. Quiriguá was built directly over the Motagua Fault and the city suffered damage in ancient times as a result of major earthquakes.\n\nAlthough the Quiriguá elite were clearly Maya in ethnicity, the site lies on the southern periphery of the Mesoamerican area and the population was at least bi-ethnic, with ethnic Maya in a minority. The majority of the population belonged ethnically to the less complex Intermediate Area lying beyond the eastern border of Mesoamerica. The population density of the site has been estimated at 400 to 500 per square kilometer (1040 to 1300 per square mile) in the centre of the city during the Late Classic with an estimated peak population of 1200–1600; surveys have revealed an average of 130 structures per square kilometer (338 per square mile) at the site, compared with 1449 structures/km (3767 per square mile) in central Copán. The low population density indicates that Quiriguá served as the focus for a dispersed rural population.\n\nThe population levels of the Quiriguá valley increased rapidly after the successful rebellion against Copán in 738, although it was never a heavily populated site. In the 9th century there was a severe decline in population, culminating in the abandonment of the city.\n\nThe Motagua River flows down from the western Guatemalan highlands, and Quiriguá was ideally positioned to control the trade of uncut jade, the majority of which was found in the middle reaches of the Motagua Valley, as well as controlling the flow of other important commodities up and down the river such as cacao, which was produced as a local cash crop. Although cacao was produced for trade, maize remained the primary local crop due to its central role in the Maya diet. In addition, maize probably formed an important component in the site's tribute payments to its overlords at Copán, a city that was exhausting its own local resources. Although little jade has been recovered from the site, there is evidence for trade in obsidian originating from the Ixtepeque source situated near the upper reaches of the Motagua.\n\nIn the Classic Period, the location of the site would have placed Quiriguá on a crossroads between the trading route from the highlands to the Caribbean coast and the route from Copán to the major cities of the Petén Basin.\n\nAs recorded on hieroglyphic inscriptions at Quiriguá, all dates are AD. Maya inscriptions for rulers sometimes include reference to a number (\"\"hel\"-number\" or count, named after its main glyph) that are believed to specify the position of that ruler in the sequence of dynastic succession to the rulership of the site. Thus a \"hel\"-number of five indicates the ruler was fifth in the line of dynastic succession.\n\nThere is evidence that Quiriguá was occupied as early as the Late Preclassic (400 BC – AD 200). Although no structures have been securely dated to this period, a number of Late Preclassic artifacts have been recovered, including 63 figurines and a chert blade. Early Classic ceramics from Quiriguá are similar to finds at both Copán and Chalchuapa in El Salvador, while jade hunchback figurines from the same period resemble those found in central Honduras and in the Guatemalan highlands. These early finds demonstrate the participation of Quiriguá in the wider southeastern Maya region from the Late Preclassic onwards.\n\nA combination of hieroglyphic texts from Tikal, Copán and Quiriguá, together with architectural styles and chemical tests of the bones of the founder of the Copán dynasty all suggest that Quiriguá and Copán were founded by elite colonists from the great city of Tikal as a part of its expansion into the southeastern border area of the Maya region. The recorded history of Quiriguá starts in 426, in the Early Classic (\"c\". 200 – \"c\". 600); according to hieroglyphic inscriptions at other sites, on 5 September of that year K'inich Yax K'uk' Mo' was enthroned as king of Copán. Just three days later he installed \"Tok Casper\", the first known king of Quiriguá, upon the throne. From this it is evident that right from the beginning of its recorded history Quiriguá was subservient to its southern neighbour, and was founded to bring the lucrative trade route of the Motagua River under the control of Copán and, indirectly, of Tikal. During the next few centuries, about which little is known, the ceremonial architecture at Quiriguá was limited to the hilltop Group A and a broad earthen platform on the valley floor. It is recorded that a stela, as yet undiscovered, was erected in 455 by Tutuum Yohl K'inich, the second king of Quiriguá. An early monument records the supervision of a ritual in 480 by the then overlord from Copán, demonstrating Quiriguá's continued status as a vassal of that city. A hieroglyphic text dating to 493 mentions two further kings of Quiriguá, but interruptions in the text make the reading and decipherment of their names particularly difficult.\n\nThere are close parallels between the 5th-century architecture and monuments of Quiriguá and Uaxactun in the northern Petén, a site that fell under the domination of Tikal in the late 4th century. The similarities show that Quiriguá remained strongly aligned with the great Tikal alliance network.\n\nQuiriguá suffered a hiatus from the turn of the 6th century that lasted through to the middle of the 7th century. This may be linked to the Tikal hiatus of the Middle Classic caused by Tikal's defeat by Calakmul. There is evidence that Quiriguá suffered an attack by unknown enemies in this period, as demonstrated by the apparently deliberate defacement of Stela U and Monument 26, characteristic of damage inflicted by invading warriors. No monuments were erected during this hiatus, which lasted from 495 to 653.\n\nIn the 6th or early 7th century a natural disaster caused a devastating flood of the Motagua Valley and buried the surface of the site under a deep layer of silt, completely changing the landscape. Only those buildings that stood above the mud continued in use, including group A, saved by its hilltop location. The earthen platform on the valley floor also continued in use, at least those parts of it that stood above the silt, and it was one of the site's smaller complexes that grew to become the new centre of Quiriguá, as represented by the monuments visible to this day.\n\nA revival can be identified by the dedication of the first new monument in a century and a half, raised by the otherwise unknown king, K'awiil Yopaat, in 653. Continued contact with Copán is evident, as well as longer distance contacts, possibly with Caracol in Belize. At about the same time major construction work was undertaken in the acropolis, including the building of the site's first ballcourt.\n\nQuiriguá traditionally had been subordinate to its southern neighbour, Copán, and in 724 Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, king of Copán, installed K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat upon Quiriguá's throne as his vassal. As early as 734, however, K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat had shown that he was no longer an obedient subordinate of Copán when he started to refer to himself as \"k'ul ahaw\", holy lord, instead of using the lesser term \"ahaw\", subordinate lord; at the same time he began to use his own Quiriguá emblem glyph. These early assertions of independence can only have been made if Quiriguá had managed to form an external alliance.\n\nIndeed, this local act of rebellion appears to have been part of the larger political struggle between the two Maya \"superpowers\", the great cities of Tikal and Calakmul. In 736, only two years later, K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat received a visit from Wamaw K'awiil, the high king of distant Calakmul, while Copán was one of Tikal's oldest allies. The timing of this visit by the king of Calakmul is highly significant, falling between the accession of K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat to the throne of Quiriguá as a vassal of Copán and the outright rebellion that was to follow. This strongly suggests that Calakmul sponsored Quiriguá's rebellion in order to weaken Tikal and to gain access to the rich trade route of the Motagua Valley. It is likely that contact with Calakmul had been initiated soon after K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat acceded to the throne, since Quiriguá experienced rapid growth soon after, suggesting that Quiriguá already was receiving external support.\n\nIn 738 the interlinked fortunes of Quiriguá and Copán took a stunning change of direction when K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat, reigning lord of Quiriguá, captured the powerful, but elderly 13th king of Copán, Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, who had installed him on his throne in 725. This coup does not seem to have affected either Copán or Quiriguá physically, there is no evidence that either city was attacked at this time and the victor seems not to have received any detectable tribute. Quiriguá seems rather to have gained its independence and the control of important trade routes. An inscription at Quiriguá, although difficult to interpret, suggests that the capture took place on 27 April 738, when Quiriguá seized and burned the wooden images of Copán's patron deities. All of this seems to imply that K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat managed to somehow ambush Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil, rather than to have defeated him in outright battle. In the Classic Period the statues of Maya deities often were carried into battle on palanquins, facilitating their capture in the event of defeat. It has been suggested that the king of Copán was attempting to attack another site in order to secure captives for sacrifice, and was ambushed by K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat and his Quiriguá warriors.\n\nThe captured lord was taken back to Quiriguá and on 3 May 738 he was decapitated in a public ritual. The sacrificial offering of the blood of such a powerful overlord greatly enhanced the standing of Quiriguá and its royal family throughout the region and it proclaimed Quiriguá as the new capital of the south-eastern Maya region. After this, Quiriguá engaged in a major monument-building programme, closely mimicking the sculptural style of Copán, possibly using captured Copán sculptors to carry out the work. The population of Quiriguá and of other sites in the valley rapidly increased after the events of 738, although Quiriguá was always a small centre and its total population probably never exceeded 2,000.\n\nIn the Late Classic (\"c\". 600 – \"c\". 900), alliance with Calakmul frequently was associated with the promise of military support. The fact that Copán, a much more powerful city than Quiriguá, failed to retaliate against its former vassal implies that it feared the military intervention of Calakmul. Calakmul itself was far enough away from Quiriguá that K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat was not afraid of falling directly under its power as a full vassal state, even though it is likely that Calakmul sent warriors to help in the defeat of Copán. The alliance instead seems to have been one of mutual advantage, Calakmul managed to weaken a powerful ally of Tikal while Quiriguá gained its independence.\n\nIn 718, the city of Xkuy – an as yet undiscovered site – was attacked and burned by Copán under the leadership of king Uaxaclajuun Ub'aah K'awiil. After the king of Copán was sacrificed in 738, Xkuy seems to have become a loyal vassal of Quiriguá and in 762 K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat supervised the accession of \"Sunraiser Jaguar\" to the subservient city's throne.\n\nK'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat, who had so dramatically changed the destiny of his city, died on 27 July 785. Zoomorph G is his memorial stone and it describes how he was buried 10 days later in the \"13 Kawak House\", a building that has not been identified. The great king was succeeded by \"Sky Xul\", a king whose name has not been properly identified. \"Sky Xul\" became the reigning lord of Quiriguá 78 days after the death of K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat, who is thought to have been his father. His reign lasted from 10 to 15 years and was a period of continued activity. In most of the Maya region cities already were suffering terminal decline, engulfed by the Classic Maya collapse, but in Quiriguá \"Sky Xul\" dedicated three great zoomorph sculptures and two altars, considered marvels of Maya stoneworking. \"Sky Xul\" died some time between 795 and 800.\n\nLittle is known of \"Jade Sky\", who succeeded \"Sky Xul\" and was the last recorded ruler of Quiriguá. The city's power already was waning, as evidenced by the two stunted stelae erected during his reign, which indicate that the kingdom no longer had access to the kind of resources needed to produce monuments of a similar quality to those of his predecessors. \"Jade Sky\" did build two of the largest structures in the acropolis, however.\n\nQuiriguá apparently retained its independence from Copán and continued to flourish until the beginning of the 9th century. Relations between the two cities had improved somewhat by 810, when king Yax Pasaj Chan Yopaat of Copán visited Quiriguá in order to carry out a \"k'atun\"-ending ritual. However, 810 was also the year when the last hieroglyphic texts were raised at Quiriguá, although a reduced level of construction continued in the city centre. After this, Quiriguá falls into silence, engulfed by the greater phenomenon of the Classic Maya collapse – it had lost its reason for existence when trade no longer flowed along the Motagua; within a few years Quiriguá was all but deserted and sites throughout the Motagua Valley suffered severe decline or abandonment.\n\nIn the early Postclassic Period (\"c\". 900 – \"c\". 1200), Quiriguá was occupied by peoples closely linked to the Caribbean coastal areas of the Yucatán Peninsula and Belize, perhaps due to Chontal Maya control of a trade network that included the Yucatán coast and the Motagua Valley. During their brief reoccupation of the site they made substantial additions to the acropolis complex. Finds associated with their occupation include a reclining chacmool sculpture and ceramics from the east coast of Yucatán, artifacts that demonstrate a close link with the distant city of Chichen Itza. Some copper bells and ornaments were recovered from Quiriguá, they are among the earliest finds of metal artifacts in the Maya area. They have been dated to either the Terminal Classic (\"c\". 800 – \"c\". 950) or the Early Postclassic.\n\nThe first European visitor to publish an account of Quiriguá was English architect and artist Frederick Catherwood, who reached the ruins in 1840. The previous landowner, by the surname of Payés, had related the existence of the ruins to his sons and to Carlos Meiney, a Jamaican Englishman resident in Guatemala. The elder Payés had recently died and passed the land to his sons and, since neither Meiney nor Payés' sons had visited the land containing the ruins, they invited John Lloyd Stephens and Catherwood to join them on their first trip to the site. Stephens had other duties to attend to, but Catherwood was able to accompany the Payés brothers to Quiriguá. Due to adverse conditions he was only able to stay a short time at the ruins, but made drawings of two of the stelae, which were published with a short account of Catherwood's visit in John Lloyd Stephens's book \"Incidents of Travel in Central America, Chiapas, and Yucatan\" in 1841. Quiriguá was the first site that Stephens and Catherwood could claim to have discovered themselves. A longer account of the ruins was made in 1854 by Dr. Karl Scherzer.\n\nExplorer and archaeologist Alfred Maudslay visited Quiriguá for three days in 1881; they were the first pre-Columbian ruins that he saw and they were sufficiently impressive to inspire him to take up a permanent interest in Central American archaeology. He was able to return on three further occasions, the last being in 1894, and he made the first efforts to clear the monuments before recording them. He carried out a very thorough examination and made a photographic record of all visible monuments, carried out some minor excavations, made paper and plaster molds of the hieroglyphic inscriptions and surveyed the principal sculptures; these molds were then shipped to the Victoria and Albert Museum, with casts being transferred to the British Museum.\n\nIn 1910, the United Fruit Company bought Quiriguá and all the land for a great distance around the site for banana production; they set aside around the ceremonial centre as an archaeological park, leaving an island of jungle among the plantations. More archaeological work was carried out from 1910 to 1914 by Edgar Lee Hewett and Sylvanus Morley for the School of American Archaeology in Santa Fe. Duplicates of the stelae of Quiriguá made from Hewitt's plaster casts of the originals were exhibited at the Panama-California Exposition in San Diego, California, in 1915. The casts are still on display at the San Diego Museum of Man in their \"Maya: Heart of Sky, Heart of Earth\" exhibition. The Carnegie Institution conducted several intermittent projects at Quiriguá from 1915 through 1934. Aldous Huxley, writing after visiting the site in the early 1930s, noted that Quiriguá's stelae commemorated \"man's triumph over time and matter and the triumph of time and matter over man.\" Quiriguá was among the first Maya archaeological sites to be studied intensively, although little restoration was carried out and the ruins once again became overgrown with jungle.\n\nQuiriguá was declared a National Monument in 1970 under Ministerial Accord 1210, this was followed on 19 June 1974 by its declaration as an Archaeological Park under Governmental Accord 35-74.\n\nFrom 1974 through 1979, an extensive archaeological project was conducted at Quiriguá sponsored by the University of Pennsylvania, the National Geographic Society, and the Guatemalan Instituto de Antropología e Historia. Directed by Robert Sharer and William R. Coe, the project excavated the acropolis, cleaned the monuments, and studied outlying groups. It was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1981, and in 1999 UNESCO approved one-off funding of US$27,248 for \"emergency assistance for the rehabilitation of the archaeological site of Quiriguá\". One of the site's stelae is depicted on the Guatemalan 10 centavo coin.\n\nThe area included within the Archaeological Park of Quiriguá has been developed for tourism with the construction of a car park, site museum, and sanitation facilities and is open to the public on a daily basis.\n\nAfter Quiriguá's pivotal victory over Copán in 738, K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat rebuilt the main group in the image of Copán itself. Thus, the acropolis, palace, and ballcourt all lie at the southern end of the Great Plaza. The ceremonial centre is laid out around three plazas, the northernmost is the Great Plaza. This plaza measures from north to south and is the largest plaza in the whole Maya region. At the southern end of the Great Plaza is the Ballcourt Plaza, surrounded on three sides by structures associated with the acropolis. The Acropolis Plaza is a fully enclosed plaza within the acropolis itself. The area to the west of the Ballcourt Plaza was probably the riverside docking area and there is evidence that the southern part of the Great Plaza was a marketplace. A number of ceramic-lined wells have been excavated close to the site core, these were all built in the 8th century and although some continued in use into the 9th century, none are known to have been built that late.\n\n\n\n\nGroups A, B and C lie at a distance of one to three miles from the site core.\n\nThe monuments at Quiriguá include unusually large stelae elaborately carved from single blocks of red sandstone, brought from quarries away. The characteristics of this hard rock allowed the local sculptors to produce low-relief sculptures enhanced by three-dimensional faces, in contrast with the contemporary two-dimensional sculpture of the Petén region. After the defeat and execution of the king of Copán in 738, the sculptural style of Quiriguá closely resembled that of its former overlord. The enormous stelae at Quirigá originally would have been visible from the Motagua River, which once flowed past the west side of the Great Plaza, announcing the new-found power of the city to passing traders. The monuments include long panels of glyphic text that are considered among the most complex and beautiful of all Maya stone inscriptions. A characteristic of these texts is the use of full-figure glyphs in which the normal bar and dot number glyphs of Maya script are replaced with exquisitely carved representations of the deities. However, by the latter part of the 8th century Quiriguá had developed an original style with the production of boulders elaborately sculpted into the forms of composite mythological animals bearing elements of toads, jaguars, crocodiles, and birds of prey; these sculptures are referred to as \"zoomorphs\" and were completed by two later kings after the death of K'ak' Tiliw Chan Yopaat in 785.\n\nThere also are various altars and sculptures used as decoration in the facades of buildings; most Quiriguá monuments have a grand formal monumentality that is rather stiff compared to the naturalistic grace of the art of some other Maya sites. Traces of red pigment have been found on some of the monuments and most of the monuments were likely to have been painted red, the colour of birth, sacrifice, and renewal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4235419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4235419", "title": "Rastafari movement in the United States", "text": "Rastafari movement in the United States\n\nThe Rastafari Movement in the United States is the Rastafari Movement, founded in Jamaica, manifestation in the United States.\nThe name \"Rastafari\" is taken from \"Ras Tafari\", the title (Ras) and first name (Tafari Makonnen) of Haile Selassie I before his coronation. In Amharic, \"Ras\", literally \"head\", is an Ethiopian title equivalent to prince or chief, while the personal given name \"Täfäri\" (\"teferi\") means one who is revered. The origin of Rastafari came from Jamaica and Ethiopia. Jah is a Biblical name of God, from a shortened form of Jahweh or \"Jehovah\" found in Psalms 68:4 in the King James Version of the Bible. Most adherents see Haile Selassie I as \"Jah\" or \"Jah Rastafari\", an incarnation ofGod the Father, the Second Advent of Christ \"the Anointed One\", i.e. the Second Coming of Jesus Christ the King to Earth.The Rastafari way of life encompasses the spiritual use of cannabis and the rejection of the degenerate society of materialism, oppression, and sensual pleasures, called Babylon. Rastas assert that Zion (i.e., Ethiopia) is a land that Jah promised to them. To achieve this, they reject modern western society, calling it \"Babylon\", which they see as entirely corrupt due to materialism and greed. \"Babylon\" is considered to have been in rebellion against \"Earth's Rightful Ruler\" (Jah) ever since the days of the Biblical king Nimrod.\n\nThe lion is a symbol for Rastafari because it appears on the Imperial Ethiopian flag, used in Haile Selassie I's Ethiopia.\n\nMarcus Garvey, a native Jamaican, speaking on the topic of the creation of an African state for displaced Africans, told his followers to “look to the East Africa, for the crowning of the Black King.\" This was also to influence the minds of the masses of black people from continuing to worship King George of England. Marcus Mosiah Garvey was referring to Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia, the only remaining African Monarch of Biblical ancestry. However, some found a more literal interpretation. Among some of these were working class Jamaicans, who saw Garvey as a prophet, and more specifically the reincarnation of John the Baptist. Consequentially, when Ras Tafari of Ethiopia was crowned Emperor Haile Selassie I in 1930, many saw the prophecy fulfilled, and proclaimed King Haile Selassie I of Ethiopia Jah, or God.\n\nThe movement has had strong cultural, social, and political effects on both Ethiopia and Jamaica, but to date, little scholarly research has been done on the effects of the movement on the United States of America. But this is not to say that such influences and affections do not exist in America, which many Rastafari see as the epitome of Babylon, and the hearth of all evil in the world. This does not stop Rastafari from immigrating to America, as a considerable influx of Jamaican Rastafari made the United States their new home during the 1960s and 1970s. The Rastafari movement played a vital role in the shaping of local United States society and culture, as was seen in the socio-cultural accomplishments of Marcus Garvey, the effects of localized Rastafari community building on the greater metropolitan area, and through the medium of Rastafari riddims, or reggae music. Adding to the idea that the United States is \"Babylon\" some American Rastas don't believe that the United States is Babylon due to the Revolutionary War against Britain.\n\nMarcus Garvey was one of the most influential elements of the Rastafari Movement on the United States. Marcus Mosiah Garvey Jr. was born into working class Jamaica on 17 August 1887. At the age of 13, Garvey was already learning to influence the masses through an internship at his grandfather’s newspaper printing business in Jamaica. It was not long before Garvey began preaching his ideals of Black Nationalism, as well as political and economic independence. In 1910, the young prophet began to spread his messages to countries of Latin America, such as Panama and Costa Rica. In 1914, Garvey would find his way to the United States. These ideals would greatly influence American society for generations to come, and were seen as a prelude to the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nForemost, Marcus Garvey sought to organize blacks worldwide to give them an influential voice in society through overwhelming numbers. To do so, Garvey established the Universal Negro Improvement Association (UNIA), which appealed to Negroes everywhere, calling for them to “reorganize, link up (their) strength, morally, financially, educationally, and physically”. After failed attempts to create a following in Jamaica, Garvey relocated the UNIA to Harlem, in New York City, where membership grew rapidly and enthusiastically. By 1920, Garvey had over 2,000,000 members in over 1,000 local chapters of the UNIA.\n\nThe UNIA had two principal goals: to establish black independence politically, and economically. Initially, Garvey came to America to preach his prophecy of Black Nationalism through Back to Africa movement. Under this action, displaced Africans would return to the land of their ancestors where they would create a prosperous African state, and lead Africa to become an influential world power. In 1924, with the financial assistance of the more than 2,000,000 members of the UNIA, Garvey sought to purchase 1 million acres (4000 km²) of land from the African country of Liberia. This land would serve as the place of repatriation Garvey had spoken of for nearly two decades. However, only 11 days after Garvey agreed to purchase the land, Firestone Tires, with the aide of the US government, stole the land from under Garvey’s nose. Firestone paid an unprecedented price to purchase what Garvey saw as his land. This was, effectively, the end of the back to Africa movement. Although the movement was essentially a failure, it deeply affected America by showing the power of the black community, effectively giving them an influential voice within society. It showed that blacks would not stand for white oppression, and had the ability to organize and fight back against corruption. Overall, the back to Africa movement showed that blacks had the power to pool together and play an active role in political affairs.\n\nInstituted on January 20, 1920, the Negro Factories Corporation sought to create corporations which would employ only blacks, as well as produce commodities only sold to black consumers. As Marcus Garvey proclaimed himself: “Negro producers! Negro distributors! Negro Consumers!” Garvey’s ideal of an all black economy that could eventually supply black consumers across the globe was not only ambitious, but to an extent also successful. Under Garvey’s guidance, independent black grocery stores, restaurants, Laundromats, tailor shops, millinery stores, and publishing houses were created. The Negro Factories Corporation had vital impacts on the United States. It proved to society that blacks were economically able, and could operate successfully and independently as business men and entrepreneurs. More importantly, it gave blacks across the country initiative and hope, as well as the secular identity required to prosper in American society.\n\nMarcus Garvey’s most famous initiative of black societal reform came from the institution of the Black Star Line. Created as an offshoot of the Negro Factories Corporation, and designed to correlate with the Back to Africa movement, the Black Star Line was announced on June 23, of 1919. The Black Star Line was created as a shipping company that would link black communities in America, Jamaica, Canada, Central America, and Africa. Ideally, the Black Star Line would transport black labored goods, including raw materials and manufactured items, to black consumers across the globe.\n\nTo purchase the company’s first ship, as well as to get the shipping line to sea, Garvey had to raise $500,000, which he did though the sale of stocks to only blacks. This economic enterprise was so important to the black community, that over 15,000 spectators came to see the S.S. Fredrick Douglass take sail for its first trip to Jamaica. However, the company eventually folded in 1922, with net losses estimated to be over $1,000,000. But the Black Star Line still had profound effects on America, giving blacks the opportunity to invest in stock was new to the country, and thus gave them a modernized way of investing their money. Again, it proved that blacks could act as successful business men and contribute economically to America. The fact that the Black Star Line was an independent black movement showed that blacks were capable of organizing international businesses.\n\nThe social and cultural results of the Black Star Line were unheard of in the 1920s, and consequently presented blacks with more economic and social opportunities than ever before.\n\nWith Rastafari unable to bring themselves to Zion until the day of repatriation, they decided to bring Zion to their home, which for more and more Rastafari was Babylon (the United States). As Jamaican Rastafari began to immigrate to the United States in the 1960s and 1970s, small, localized, and homogeneous Rastafari communities began to spring up across the country. Such communities appeared in Philadelphia, Boston, Hartford, Miami, Washington D.C., Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Houston, and most notably New York City. Specifically in New York City, six different Rastafari communities exist in five different boroughs. Most influential of these communities are Crown Heights and Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn.\n\nGenerally, the building of localized Rastafari communities occurs through the establishment of Rastafari Community centers, schools, tabernacles, as well as Rasta Culture Stores.\n\nAll Rastafari communities must undergo the community building process, which begins small, and then grows larger. The initial part of the community consists of extremely small Rastafari centers, where Rastas go out of convenience, but not necessarily to congregate with other Rastafari. The goal of these centers is to bring Zion-like elements to their respective Exodus communities. Examples of such centers are smoking yards or weed gates, where Rastafari go to smoke ganja, or marijuana, which they believe purifies the soul and brings one closer to the Almighty Jah. Another example of such centers are Rastafari stores, such as supermarkets where Rastafari goods may be purchased. These stores range from ital foods stores, to reggae record stores, to specialized medical stores.\n\nThe second level of community building occurs with the greater organization of Rastafari truly into a community. This often coincides with the creation of large churches, which provides the Rastafari with an organized and active community in which to carry out further Rasta evangelicalism. In Jamaican Rastafari practices, organized congregations are frowned upon, and finding Jah is seen as a personal passageway, but churches are essential for Rasta worship in America. These churches offer an array of opportunities, including Sunday schools for the youth, “rastalogical” counseling, Ital cooking classes, sewing and knitting, craft building and language instruction courses. Additionally, churches provide public recognition of individual Rastafari, as well as the movement overall. All for one and one for all.\n\nLocalized community building influenced America in the sense that they introduced the greater metropolitan area to the Rastafari community. American non-Rastas were welcome at Rastafari hang outs, such as dance halls or reggae record stores. By building a community, the individual Rastafari attained a sense of belonging and fellowship. These small pocket societies contributed to the growing diversity of American society, and thus helped to further establish America for what it was known: a cultural melting pot.\n\nReggae was known in Jamaica as a popular dance move until 1968, when the Toots & the Maytals released their single “Do the Reggay”. From this point on, Reggae referred to a genre of music centered on a steady and regular beat played on a rhythm guitar, called the “bang”, and biblical lyrics pertaining to Rastafari ideology. In Jamaica and around the world, reggae, and especially the music of Bob Marley, was used as a medium to bring about social and political change.\n\nThis was seen in Zimbabwe’s independence movement in the 1980s, as Bob Marley’s hit song Zimbabwe is today seen as a second national anthem. But what is unique about reggae is that it rarely strays from its Rastafari roots—reggae lyrics have a universal Rastafari theme. Despite the fact that reggae has not always been as popular in America as in Jamaica, reggae music has deeply affected American culture, not only through the radio waves, but also through the ways of the Rasta man.\n\nBob Marley was and is reggae music's most transcendent figure. He lived in Delaware briefly before returning to Jamaica to pursue his musical career, which was discernibly influenced by musical genres then popular in the US. Along with his band the Wailers, Marley was able to become the first international music star to rise to prominence from the 'Third World'. Although Marley was initially very popular in Jamaica for the better part of a decade with the Wailers being Jamaica's biggest stars for a much of that time, it was a slower climb to international fame for both Marley and Reggae music. The first two 'official' Wailers albums, 'Catch a Fire' and 'Burnin' received great critical acclaim, but sales were less than impressive. However, after the split of the original Wailers and the release of 'Natty Dread' in 1974 as well as the 1975 'Live\" album, Marley's music and message began to take hold specifically in England (UK), where Bob Marley and The Wailers' two performances at the Lyceum Ballroom are regarded as two of the most influential concerts ever to take place in that country. In 1976, Bob Marley and The Wailers \"Rastaman Vibration\" LP cracked the American charts peaking at #8, as well as producing Marley's only Hot 100 single 'Roots Rock Reggae'. All of Marley's follow- up LPs with the exception of \"Babylon by Bus\" placed in the US Billboard Top 100, and his message only continued to grow, having a profound effect on a large element of American society, very specifically on white American society. Marley's 'Exodus' released in 1977 is considered his crossover LP placing at #15 and #20 on the Black Albums Chart and Billboard Chart respectively. Towards the later half of Bob Marley's career, his message began to pick up steam in America's black community, a segment of US society that had long remained impervious to the impact of Bob Marley and Reggae music. However, a series of legendary shows at Harlem's Apollo Theatre in 1979 coupled with the release of the militant Pan-African oriented 'Survival', as well as an appearance at the Amandla Festival in the same year, began to elevate Marley's reputation in the eyes of black America. By the time of Marley's passing in 1981, the Rastafari faith had developed progressively, e.g. in the creation of the 'Twelve Tribes' sect which Marley himself was a member of. In the US (as in other parts of the world) the music press played a crucial role for Rastafari to be heard, felt and seen. Even though it wasn't fully understood, and occasionally mocked or ridiculed, the Rastafari lifestyle was essentially (as far as the western press was concerned) indistinguishable from reggae music.\n\nThe Rastafari faith or way of life remains largely misunderstood. However, as a result of Bob Marley's international reputation in life as well as his enormous posthumous success which only continues to grow, the Rastafari movement in the United States has multiplied considerably since Marley died in 1981. The influence of reggae music and its association with Rastafari reached a peak with the success of Rasta artists such as Marley, his wife Rita Marley, Peter Tosh, Dennis Brown, and many others. The reputation of reggae music in general and Bob Marley in particular only continues to gain new respect among younger generations of appreciative fans and the Rastafari message has, along with this popularity, found its place alongside some of the world's great philosophies and ideologies. Even if Rastafari is not universally embraced, concepts of it are widely accepted and appreciated, due largely to the popularity of Bob Marley and reggae music. Marley is considered in many Rasta circles to be a prophet, and holds a similar standing with many people throughout the world who do not identify themselves as Rastafari.\n\n"}
{"id": "11195385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11195385", "title": "Rekidai Hōan", "text": "Rekidai Hōan\n\nThe Rekidai Hōan (歴代宝案), Precious Documents of Successive Generations, is an official compilation of diplomatic documents of the royal government of the Ryūkyū Kingdom. Covering the period from 1424 to 1867, it contains records, written entirely in Chinese, of communications between Ryukyu and ten different trading partners in this period, detailing as well the gifts given in tribute. The ten countries or trading ports are China, Korea, Siam, Malacca, Palembang, Java, Sumatra, Pattani, and Sunda Kelapa (Jakarta). There are 242 volumes in total, including four lists, and an extra four sections.\n\nIt is believed that the documents were first formally compiled in 1697 from documents kept at the Naha Tempi Palace. Some documents were already lost at this time, and copies contained errors. It is not known whether the documents had been kept separately or bound prior to this.\n\nThe compilation first became known to the public, and put on display, in 1932, when it was moved from the Tenson Shrine in Naha to the Okinawa Prefectural Library. This \"First Series\" compiled in 1697 contained 49 volumes, but by 1932 a number were missing or severely damaged. All were destroyed in the 1945 battle of Okinawa. \n\nCopies in Taiwan University and Tokyo University survived, and form the basis for scholarship of these documents; unfortunately, further copying errors were introduced in the 1930s-1940s when these versions were created.\n\n"}
{"id": "2347227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347227", "title": "Segment (linguistics)", "text": "Segment (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a segment is \"any discrete unit that can be identified, either physically or auditorily, in the stream of speech\". The term is most used in phonetics and phonology to refer to the smallest elements in a language, and this usage can be synonymous with the term phone. \n\nIn spoken languages, segments will typically be grouped into consonants and vowels, but the term can be applied to any minimal unit of a linear sequence meaningful to the given field of analysis, such as a mora or a syllable in prosodic phonology, a morpheme in morphology, or a chereme in sign language analysis.\n\nSegments are called \"discrete\" because they are, at least at some analytical level, separate and individual, and temporally ordered. Segments are generally not completely discrete in speech production or perception, however. The articulatory, visual and acoustic cues that encode them often overlap. Examples of overlap for spoken languages can be found in discussions of phonological assimilation, coarticulation, and other areas in the study of phonetics and phonology, especially autosegmental phonology. \n\nOther articulatory, visual or acoustic cues, such as prosody (tone, stress), and secondary articulations such as nasalization, may overlap multiple segments and cannot be discretely ordered with them. These elements are termed \"suprasegmental.\" \n\nIn phonetics, the smallest perceptible segment is a phone. In phonology, there is a subfield of segmental phonology that deals with the analysis of speech into phonemes (or \"segmental phonemes\"), which correspond fairly well to phonetic segments of the analysed speech.\n\nThe segmental phonemes of sign language (formally called \"cheremes\") are visual movements of hands, face, and body. They occur in a distinct spatial and temporal order. The SignWriting script represents the spatial order of the segments with a spatial cluster of graphemes. Other notations for sign language use a temporal order that implies a spatial order.\n\nWhen analyzing the inventory of segmental units in any given language, some segments will be found to be \"marginal,\" in the sense that they are only found in onomatopoeic words, interjections, loan words, or a very limited number of ordinary words, but not throughout the language. Marginal segments, especially in loan words, are often the source of new segments in the general inventory of a language.\n\nSome contrastive elements of speech cannot be easily analyzed as distinct segments but rather belong to a syllable or word. These elements are called suprasegmental, and include intonation and stress. In some languages nasality and vowel harmony are considered suprasegmental or prosodic by some phonologists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30731", "title": "Teleological argument", "text": "Teleological argument\n\nThe teleological or physico-theological argument, also known as the argument from design, or intelligent design argument is an argument for the existence of God or, more generally, for an intelligent creator based on perceived evidence of deliberate design in the natural world. \n\nThe earliest recorded versions of this argument are associated with Socrates in ancient Greece, although it has been argued that he was taking up an older argument. Plato, his student, and Aristotle, Plato's student, developed complex approaches to the proposal that the cosmos has an intelligent cause, but it was the Stoics who, under their influence, \"developed the battery of creationist arguments broadly known under the label 'The Argument from Design.\n\nAbrahamic religions have used the teleological argument in many ways, and has a long association with them. In the Middle Ages, Islamic theologians such as Al-Ghazali used the argument, although it was rejected as unnecessary by Quranic literalists, and as unconvincing by many Islamic philosophers. Later, the teleological argument was accepted by Saint Thomas Aquinas and included as the fifth of his \"Five Ways\" of proving the existence of God. In early modern England clergymen such as William Turner and John Ray were well-known proponents. In the early 18th century, William Derham published his \"Physico-Theology\", which gave his \"demonstration of the being and attributes of God from his works of creation\". Later, William Paley, in his 1802 \"Natural Theology or Evidences of the Existence and Attributes of the Deity\" published a prominent presentation of the design argument with his version of the watchmaker analogy and the first use of the phrase \"argument from design\".\n\nFrom its beginning, there have been numerous criticisms of the different versions of the teleological argument, and responses to its challenge to the claims against non-teleological natural science. Especially important were the general logical arguments made by David Hume in his \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\", published 1779, and the explanation of biological complexity given in Charles Darwin's \"Origin of Species\", published in 1859. Since the 1960s, Paley's arguments, including the words \"intelligent design\", have been influential in the development of a creation science movement, especially the form known as the intelligent design movement, which not only uses the teleological argument to argue against the modern scientific understanding of evolution, but also makes the claim that supposed flaws in evolutionary science justify removing it from the educational curriculum.\n\nAlso starting already in classical Greece, two approaches to the teleological argument developed, distinguished by their understanding of whether the natural order was literally created or not. The non-creationist approach starts most clearly with Aristotle, although many thinkers, such as the Neoplatonists, believed it was already intended by Plato. This approach is not creationist in a simple sense, because while it agrees that a cosmic intelligence is responsible for the natural order, it rejects the proposal that this requires a \"creator\" to physically make and maintain this order. The Neoplatonists did not find the teleological argument convincing, and in this they were followed by medieval philosophers such as Al-Farabi and Avicenna. Later, Averroes and Thomas Aquinas considered the argument acceptable, but not necessarily the best argument.\n\nContemporary defenders of the teleological argument are Antony Flew, Richard Swinburne and John Lennox.\n\nWhile the concept of an intelligence behind the natural order is ancient, a rational argument that concludes that we can know that the natural world has a designer, or a creating intelligence which has human-like purposes, appears to have begun with classical philosophy. Religious thinkers in Judaism, Hinduism, Confucianism, Islam and Christianity also developed versions of the teleological argument. Later, variants on the argument from design were produced in Western philosophy and by Christian fundamentalism.\n\nThe argument from intelligent design appears to have begun with Socrates, although the concept of a cosmic intelligence is older and David Sedley has argued that Socrates was developing an older idea, citing Anaxagoras of Clazomenae, born about 500 BC, as a possible earlier proponent. The proposal that the order of nature showed evidence of having its own human-like \"intelligence\" goes back to the origins of Greek natural philosophy and science, and its attention to the orderliness of nature, often with special reference to the revolving of the heavens. Anaxagoras is the first person who is definitely known to have explained such a concept using the word \"nous\" (which is the original Greek term that leads to modern English \"intelligence\" via its Latin and French translations). Aristotle reports an earlier philosopher from Clazomenae named Hermotimus who had taken a similar position. Amongst Pre-Socratic philosophers before Anaxagoras, other philosophers had proposed a similar intelligent ordering principle causing life and the rotation of the heavens. For example Empedocles, like Hesiod much earlier, described cosmic order and living things as caused by a cosmic version of love, and Pythagoras and Heraclitus attributed the cosmos with \"reason\" (\"logos\"). In his \"Philebus\" 28c Plato has Socrates speak of this as a tradition, saying that \"all philosophers agree—whereby they really exalt themselves—that mind (\"nous\") is king of heaven and earth. Perhaps they are right.\" and later states that the ensuing discussion \"confirms the utterances of those who declared of old that mind (\"nous\") always rules the universe\".\n\nXenophon's report in his \"Memorabilia\" might be the earliest clear account of an argument that there is evidence in nature of intelligent design. The word traditionally translated and discussed as \"design\" is \"gnōmē\" and Socrates is reported by Xenophon to have pressed doubting young men to look at things in the market, and consider whether they could tell which things showed evidence of \"gnōmē\", and which seemed more to be by blind chance, and then to compare this to nature and consider whether it could be by blind chance. In Plato's \"Phaedo\", Socrates is made to say just before dying that his discovery of Anaxagoras' concept of a cosmic \"nous\" as the cause of the order of things, was an important turning point for him. But he also expressed disagreement with Anaxagoras' understanding of the implications of his own doctrine, because of Anaxagoras' materialist understanding of causation. Socrates complained that Anaxagoras restricted the work of the cosmic \"nous\" to the beginning, as if it were uninterested and all events since then just happened because of causes like air and water. Socrates, on the other hand, apparently insisted that the demiurge must be \"loving\", particularly concerning humanity. (In this desire to go beyond Anaxagoras and make the cosmic \"nous\" a more active manager, Socrates was apparently preceded by Diogenes of Apollonia.)\n\nPlato's \"Timaeus\" is presented as a description of someone who is explaining a \"likely story\" in the form of a myth, and so throughout history commentators have disagreed about which elements of the myth can be seen as the position of Plato. Sedley nevertheless calls it \"the creationist manifesto\" and points out that although some of Plato's followers denied that he intended it, in classical times writers such as Aristotle, Epicurus, the Stoics and Galen all understood Plato as proposing the world originated in an \"intelligent creative act\". Plato has a character explain the concept of a \"demiurge\" with supreme wisdom and intelligence as the creator of the cosmos in his work .\n\nPlato's teleological perspective is also built upon the analysis of \"a priori\" order and structure in the world that he had already presented in \"The Republic\". The story does not propose creation \"ex nihilo\"; rather, the demiurge made order from the chaos of the cosmos, imitating the eternal Forms.\n\nPlato's student and friend Aristotle (c. 384 – 322 BC), continued the Socratic tradition of criticising natural scientists such as Democritus who sought (as in modern science) to explain everything in terms of matter and chance motion. He was very influential in the future development of classical creationism, but was not a straightforward \"creationist\" because he required no creation interventions in nature, meaning he \"insulated god from any requirement to intervene in nature, either as creator or as administrator\". Instead of direct intervention by a creator it is \"scarcely an exaggeration to say that for Aristotle the entire functioning of the natural world, as also the heavens, is ultimately to be understood as a shared striving towards godlike actuality\". And whereas the myth in the \"Timaeus\" suggests that all living things are based on one single paradigm, not one for each species, and even tells a story of \"devolution\" whereby other living things devolved from humans, it was Aristotle who presented the influential idea that each type of normal living thing must be based on a fixed paradigm or form for that species.\n\nAristotle felt that biology was a particularly important example of a field where materialist natural science ignored information which was needed in order to understand living things well. For example birds use wings for the purpose of flight. Therefore the most complete explanation in regard to the natural, as well as the artificial, is for the most part teleological. In fact, proposals that species had changed by chance survival of the fittest, similar to what is now called \"natural selection\", were already known to Aristotle, and he rejected these with the same logic. He conceded that monstrosities (new forms of life) could come about by chance, but he disagreed with those who ascribed all nature purely to chance because he believed science can only provide a general account of that which is normal, \"always, or for the most part\". The distinction between what is normal, or by nature, and what is \"accidental\", or not by nature, is important in Aristotle's understanding of nature. As pointed out by Sedley, \"Aristotle is happy to say (\"Physics\" II 8, 199a33-b4) without the slightest fear of blasphemy, crafts make occasional mistakes; therefore, by analogy, so can nature\". According to Aristotle the changes which happen by nature are caused by their \"formal causes\", and for example in the case of a bird's wings there is also a final cause which is the purpose of flying. He explicitly compared this to human technology:\nThe question of how to understand Aristotle's conception of nature having a purpose and direction something like human activity is controversial in the details. Martha Nussbaum for example has argued that in his biology this approach was practical and meant to show nature only being analogous to human art, explanations of an organ being greatly informed by knowledge of its essential function. Nevertheless, Nussbaum's position is not universally accepted. In any case, Aristotle was not understood this way by his followers in the Middle Ages, who saw him as consistent with monotheistic religion and a teleological understanding of all nature. Consistent with the medieval interpretation, in his \"Metaphysics\" and other works Aristotle clearly argued a case for their being one highest god or \"prime mover\" which was the ultimate cause, though specifically not the material cause, of the eternal forms or natures which cause the natural order, including all living things. And he clearly refers to this entity having an intellect that humans somehow share in, which helps humans see the true natures or forms of things without relying purely on sense perception of physical things, including living species. This understanding of nature, and Aristotle's arguments against materialist understandings of nature, were very influential in the Middle Ages in Europe. The idea of fixed species remained dominant in biology until Darwin, and a focus upon biology is still common today in teleological criticisms of modern science.\n\nIt was the Stoics who \"developed the battery of creationist arguments broadly known under the label 'The Argument from Design. Cicero (c. 106 – c. 43 BC) reported the teleological argument of the Stoics in \"De Natura Deorum (On the Nature of the Gods)\" Book II, which includes an early version of the watchmaker analogy, which was later developed by William Paley. He has one of the characters in the dialogue say:\nAnother very important classical supporter of the teleological argument was Galen, whose compendious works were one of the major sources of medical knowledge until modern times, both in Europe and the medieval Islamic world. He was not a Stoic, but like them he looked back to the Socratics and was constantly engaged in arguing against atomists such as the Epicureans. Unlike Aristotle (who was however a major influence upon him), and unlike the Neoplatonists, he believed there was really evidence for something literally like the \"demiurge\" found in Plato's \"Timaeus\", which worked physical upon nature. In works such as his \"On the Usefulness of Parts\" he explained evidence for it in the complexity of animal construction. His work shows \"early signs of contact and contrast between the pagan and the Judaeo-Christian tradition of creation\", criticizing the account found in the Bible. \"Moses, he suggests, would have contented himself with saying that God ordered the eyelashes not to grow and that they obeyed. In contrast to this, the Platonic tradition's Demiurge is above all else a technician.\" Surprisingly, neither Aristotle nor Plato, but Xenophon are considered by Galen, as the best writer on this subject. Galen shared with Xenophon a scepticism of the value of books about most speculative philosophy, except for inquiries such as whether there is \"something in the world superior in power and wisdom to man\". This he saw as having an everyday importance, a usefulness for living well. He also asserted that Xenophon was the author who reported the real position of Socrates, including his aloofness from many types of speculative science and philosophy.\n\nGalen's connection of the teleological argument to discussions about the complexity of living things, and his insistence that this is possible for a practical scientist, foreshadows some aspects of modern uses of the teleological argument.\n\nAs an appeal to general revelation, Paul the Apostle (AD 5–67), argues in Romans 1:18–20, that because it has been made plain to all from what has been created in the world, it is obvious that there is a God.\n\nMarcus Minucius Felix (c. late 2nd to 3rd century), an Early Christian writer, argued for the existence of God based on the analogy of an ordered house in his \"The Orders of Minucius Felix\": \"Supposing you went into a house and found everything neat, orderly and well-kept, surely you would assume it had a master, and one\nmuch better than the good things, his belongings ; so in this house of the universe, when throughout\nheaven and earth you see the marks of foresight, order and law, may you not assume that the lord and\nauthor of the universe is fairer than the stars themselves or than any portions of the entire world ?\"\n\nAugustine of Hippo (AD 354–430) in The City of God mentioned the idea that the world's \"well-ordered changes and movements\", and \"the fair appearance of all visible things\" was evidence for the world being created, and \"that it could not have been created save by God\".\n\nEarly Islamic philosophy played an important role in developing the philosophical understandings of God among Jewish and Christian thinkers in the Middle Ages, but concerning the teleological argument one of the lasting effects of this tradition came from its discussions of the difficulties which this type of proof has. Various forms of the argument from design have been used by Islamic theologians and philosophers from the time of the early Mutakallimun theologians in the 9th century, although it is rejected by fundamentalist or literalist schools, for whom the mention of God in the Qu'ran should be sufficient evidence. The argument from design was also seen as an unconvincing sophism by the early Islamic philosopher Al-Farabi, who instead took the \"emanationist\" approach of the Neoplatonists such as Plotinus, whereby nature is rationally ordered, but God is not like a craftsman who literally manages the world. Later, Avicenna was also convinced of this, and proposed instead a cosmological argument for the existence of God.\n\nThe argument was however later accepted by both the Aristotelian philosopher Averroes (Ibn Rushd) and his great anti-philosophy opponent Al-Ghazali. Averroes' term for the argument was \"Dalīl al-ˁināya\", which can be translated as \"argument from providence\". Both of them however accepted the argument \"because\" they believed it is explicitly mentioned in the Quran. Despite this, like Aristotle, the Neoplatonists, and Al-Farabi, Averroes proposed that order and continual motion in the world is caused by God's intellect. Whether Averroes was an \"emanationist\" like his predecessors has been a subject of disagreement and uncertainty. But it is generally agreed that what he adapted from those traditions, agreed with them about the fact that God does not create in the same way as a craftsman.\n\nIn fact then, Averroes treated the teleological argument as one of two \"religious\" arguments for the existence of God. The principal demonstrative proof is, according to Averroes, Aristotle's proof from motion in the universe that there must be a first mover which causes everything else to move. Averroes' position that the most logically valid proof should be physical rather than metaphysical (because then metaphysics would be proving itself) was in conscious opposition to the position of Avicenna. Later Jewish and Christian philosophers such as Thomas Aquinas were aware of this debate, and generally took a position closer to Avicenna.\n\nAn example of the teleological argument in Jewish philosophy appears when the medieval Aristotelian philosopher Maimonides cites the passage in Isaiah 40:26, where the \"Holy One\" says: \"Lift up your eyes on high, and behold who hath created these things, that bringeth out their host by number:\" However, Barry Holtz calls this \"a crude form of the argument from design\", and that this \"is only one possible way of reading the text\". He asserts that \"Generally, in the biblical texts the existence of God is taken for granted.\"\n\nMaimonides also recalled that Abraham (in the midrash, or explanatory text, of Genesis Rabbah 39:1) recognized the existence of \"one transcendent deity from the fact that the world around him exhibits an order and design\". The midrash makes an analogy between the obviousness that a building has an owner, and that the world is looked after by God. Abraham says \"Is it conceivable that the world is without a guide?\" Because of these examples, the 19th century philosopher Nachman Krochmal called the argument from design \"a cardinal principle of the Jewish faith\".\n\nThe American orthodox rabbi, Aryeh Kaplan, retells a legend about the 2nd century AD Rabbi Meir. When told by a philosopher that he did not believe that the world was created by God, the rabbi produced a beautiful poem that he claimed had come into being when a cat accidentally knocked over a pot of ink, \"spilling ink all over the document. This poem was the result.\" The philosopher exclaims that would be impossible: \"There must be an author. There must be a scribe.\" The rabbi concludes, \"How could the universe ... come into being by itself? There must be an Author. There must be a Creator.\"\n\nThomas Aquinas (1225–1274), whose writings became widely accepted within Catholic western Europe, was heavily influenced by Aristotle, Averroes, and other Islamic and Jewish philosophers. He presented a teleological argument in his \"Summa Theologica\". In the work, Aquinas presented five ways in which he attempted to prove the existence of God: the \"quinque viae\". These arguments feature only \"a posteriori\" arguments, rather than literal reading of holy texts. He sums up his teleological argument as follows:\n\nAquinas notes that the existence of final causes, by which a cause is directed toward an effect, can only be explained by an appeal to intelligence. However, as natural bodies aside from humans do not possess intelligence, there must, he reasons, exist a being that directs final causes at every moment. That being is what we call God.\n\nIsaac Newton affirmed his belief in the truth of the argument when, in 1713, he wrote these words in an appendix to the second edition of his Principia:This most elegant system of the sun, planets, and comets could not have arisen without the design and dominion of an intelligent and powerful being.\nThis view, that \"God is known from his works\", was supported and popularized by Newton's friends Richard Bentley, Samuel Clarke and William Whiston in the Boyle lectures, which Newton supervised. Newton wrote to Bentley, just before Bentley delivered the first lecture, that:when I wrote my treatise about our Systeme I had an eye upon such Principles as might work with considering men for the beliefe [sic] of a Deity, and nothing can rejoice me more than to find it useful for that purpose.\n\nThe German philosopher Gottfried Leibniz disagreed with Newton's view of design in the teleological argument. In the Leibniz–Clarke correspondence, Samuel Clarke argued Newton's case that God constantly intervenes in the world to keep His design adjusted, while Leibniz thought that the universe was created in such a way that God would not need to intervene at all. As quoted by Ayval Leshem, Leibniz wrote:According to [Newton's] doctrine, God Almighty wants [i.e. needs] to wind up his watch from time to time; otherwise it would cease to move. He had not it seems, sufficient foresight to make it a perpetual motion Leibniz considered the argument from design to have \"only moral certainty\" unless it was supported by his own idea of pre-established harmony expounded in his Monadology. Bertrand Russell wrote that \"The proof from the pre-established harmony is a particular form of the so-called physico-theological proof, otherwise known as the argument from design.\" According to Leibniz, the universe is completely made from individual substances known as monads, programmed to act in a predetermined way. Russell wrote:In Leibniz's form, the argument states that the harmony of all the monads can only have arisen from a common cause. That they should all exactly synchronize, can only be explained by a Creator who pre-determined their synchronism.\n\nThe 17th-century Dutch writers Lessius and Grotius argued that the intricate structure of the world, like that of a house, was unlikely to have arisen by chance. The empiricist John Locke, writing in the late 17th century, developed the Aristotelian idea that, excluding geometry, all science must attain its knowledge \"a posteriori\" - through sensual experience. In response to Locke, Anglican Irish Bishop George Berkeley advanced a form of idealism in which things only continue to exist when they are perceived. When humans do not perceive objects, they continue to exist because God is perceiving them. Therefore, in order for objects to remain in existence, God must exist omnipresently.\n\nDavid Hume, in the mid-18th century, referred to the teleological argument in his \"A Treatise of Human Nature\". Here, he appears to give his support to the argument from design. John Wright notes that \"Indeed, he claims that the whole thrust of his analysis of causality in the Treatise supports the Design argument\", and that, according to Hume, \"we are obliged 'to infer an infinitely perfect Architect.\n\nHowever, later he was more critical of the argument in his \"An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding\". This was presented as a dialogue between Hume and \"a friend who loves sceptical paradoxes\", where the friend gives a version of the argument by saying of its proponents, they \"paint in the most magnificent colours the order, beauty, and wise arrangement of the universe; and then ask if such a glorious display of intelligence could come from a random coming together of atoms, or if chance could produce something that the greatest genius can never sufficiently admire.\"\n\nHume also presented arguments both for and against the teleological argument in his \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\". The character Cleanthes, summarizing the teleological argument, likens the universe to a man-made machine, and concludes by the principle of similar effects and similar causes that it must have a designing intelligence:\n\nOn the other hand, Hume's sceptic, Philo, is not satisfied with the argument from design. He attempts a number of refutations, including one that arguably foreshadows Darwin's theory, and makes the point that if God resembles a human designer, then assuming divine characteristics such as omnipotence and omniscience is not justified. He goes on to joke that far from being the perfect creation of a perfect designer, this universe may be \"only the first rude essay of some infant deity... the object of derision to his superiors\".\n\nStarting in 1696 with his \"Artificial Clockmaker\", William Derham published a stream of teleological books. The best known of these are \"Physico-Theology\", 1713; \"Astro-Theology\", 1714; and \"Christo-Theology\", 1730. \"Physico-Theology\", for example, was explicitly subtitled \"A demonstration of the being and attributes of God from his works of creation\". A natural theologian, Derham listed scientific observations of the many variations in nature, and proposed that these proved \"the unreasonableness of infidelity\". At the end of the section on Gravity for instance, he writes: \"What else can be concluded, but that all was made with manifest Design, and that all the whole Structure is the Work of some intelligent Being; some Artist, of Power and Skill equivalent to such a Work?\" Also, of the \"sense of sound\" he writes:\n\nFor who but an intelligent Being, what less than an omnipotent and infinitely wise God could contrive, and make such a fine Body, such a Medium, so susceptible of every Impression, that the Sense of Hearing hath occasion for, to empower all Animals to express their Sense and Meaning to others.\n\nDerham concludes: \"For it is a Sign a Man is a wilful, perverse Atheist, that will impute so glorious a Work, as the Creation is, to any Thing, yea, a mere Nothing (as Chance is) rather than to God. A.S. Weber writes that Derham's \"Physico-Theology\" \"directly influenced\" William Paley's later work.\n\nThe power, and yet the limitations, of this kind of reasoning is illustrated in microcosm by the history of La Fontaine's fable of The Acorn and the Pumpkin, which first appeared in France in 1679. The light-hearted anecdote of how a doubting peasant is finally convinced of the wisdom behind creation arguably undermines this approach. However, beginning with Anne Finch's conversion of the story into a polemic against atheism, it has been taken up by a succession of moral writers as presenting a valid argument for the proposition that \"The wisdom of God is displayed in creation\".\n\nThe watchmaker analogy, framing the teleological argument with reference to a timepiece, dates at least back to the Stoics, who were reported by Cicero in his \"De Natura Deorum\" (II.88), using such an argument against Epicureans, whom, they taunt, would \"think more highly of the achievement of Archimedes in making a model of the revolutions of the firmament than of that of nature in creating them, although the perfection of the original shows a craftsmanship many times as great as does the counterfeit\". It was also used by Robert Hooke and Voltaire, the latter of whom remarked:\n<poem>\nThe Universe troubles me, and much less can I think\nThat this clock exists and should have no clockmaker.\n</poem>\n\nWilliam Paley presented his version of the watchmaker analogy at the start of his \"Natural Theology\" (1802).[S]uppose I found a watch upon the ground, and it should be inquired how the watch happened to be in that place, I should hardly think … that, for anything I knew, the watch might have always been there. Yet why should not this answer serve for the watch as well as for [a] stone [that happened to be lying on the ground]?… For this reason, and for no other; namely, that, if the different parts had been differently shaped from what they are, if a different size from what they are, or placed after any other manner, or in any order than that in which they are placed, either no motion at all would have been carried on in the machine, or none which would have answered the use that is now served by it.\n\nAccording to Alister McGrath, Paley argued that \"The same complexity and utility evident in the design and functioning of a watch can also be discerned in the natural world. Each feature of a biological organism, like that of a watch, showed evidence of being designed in such a way as to adapt the organism to survival within its environment. Complexity and utility are observed; the conclusion that they were designed and constructed by God, Paley holds, is as natural as it is correct.\"\n\nNatural theology strongly influenced British science, with the expectation as expressed by Adam Sedgwick in 1831 that truths revealed by science could not conflict with the moral truths of religion. These natural philosophers saw God as the first cause, and sought secondary causes to explain design in nature: the leading figure Sir John Herschel wrote in 1836 that by analogy with other intermediate causes \"the origination of fresh species, could it ever come under our cognizance, would be found to be a natural in contradistinction to a miraculous process\".\n\nAs a theology student, Charles Darwin found Paley's arguments compelling. However, he later developed his theory of evolution in his 1859 book \"On the Origin of Species\", which offers an alternate explanation of biological order. In his autobiography, Darwin wrote that \"The old argument of design in nature, as given by Paley, which formerly seemed to me so conclusive, fails, now that the law of natural selection has been discovered\". Darwin struggled with the problem of evil and of suffering in nature, but remained inclined to believe that nature depended upon \"designed laws\" and commended Asa Gray's statement about \"Darwin's great service to Natural Science in bringing back to it Teleology: so that, instead of Morphology versus Teleology, we shall have Morphology wedded to Teleology.\"\n\nDarwin owned he was \"bewildered\" on the subject, but was \"inclined to look at everything as resulting from designed laws, with the details, whether good or bad, left to the working out of what we may call chance\":\nBut I own that I cannot see, as plainly as others do, & as I shd wish to do, evidence of design & beneficence on all sides of us. There seems to me too much misery in the world. I cannot persuade myself that a beneficent & omnipotent God would have designedly created the Ichneumonidae with the express intention of their feeding within the living bodies of caterpillars, or that a cat should play with mice. Not believing this, I see no necessity in the belief that the eye was expressly designed.\n\nIn 1928 and 1930, F. R. Tennant published his \"Philosophical Theology\", which was a \"bold endeavour to combine scientific and theological thinking\". He proposed a version of the teleological argument based on the accumulation of the probabilities of each individual biological adaptation. \"Tennant concedes that naturalistic accounts such as evolutionary theory may explain each of the individual adaptations he cites, but he insists that in this case the whole exceeds the sum of its parts: naturalism can explain each adaptation but not their totality.\" The \"Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" notes that \"Critics have insisted on focusing on the cogency of each piece of theistic evidence – reminding us that, in the end, ten leaky buckets hold no more water than one.\" Also, \"Some critics, such as John Hick and D.H. Mellor, have objected to Tennant's particular use of probability theory and have challenged the relevance of any kind of probabilistic reasoning to theistic belief.\"\n\nRichard Swinburne's \"contributions to philosophical theology have sought to apply more sophisticated versions of probability theory to the question of God's existence, a methodological improvement on Tennant's work but squarely in the same spirit\". He uses Bayesian probability \"taking account not only of the order and functioning of nature but also of the 'fit' between human intelligence and the universe, whereby one can understand its workings, as well as human aesthetic, moral, and religious experience\". Swinburne writes: \"the existence of order in the world confirms the existence of God if and only if the existence of this order in the world is more probable if there is a God than if there is not. ... the probability of order of the right kind is very much greater if there is a God, and so that the existence of such order adds greatly to the probability that there is a God.\" Swinburne acknowledges that his argument by itself may not give a reason to believe in the existence of God, but in combination with other arguments such as cosmological arguments and evidence from mystical experience, he thinks it can.\n\nWhile discussing Hume's arguments, Alvin Plantinga offered a probability version of the teleological argument in his book \"God and Other Minds\":\n\nEvery \"contingent\" object such that we know whether or not it was the product of intelligent design, \"was\" the product of intelligent design.\n\nThe universe is a contingent object.\n\nSo probably the universe is designed.\nFollowing Plantinga, Georges Dicker produced a slightly different version in his book about Bishop Berkeley:\n\nA. The world ... shows amazing teleological order.\n\nB. All Objects exhibiting such order ... are products of intelligent design.\n\nC. Probably the world is a result of intelligent design.\n\nD. Probably, God exists and created the world.\n\nThe \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" has the following criticism of such arguments: It can of course be said that any form in which the universe might be is statistically enormously improbable as it is only one of a virtual infinity of possible forms. But its actual form is no more improbable, in this sense, than innumerable others. It is only the fact that humans are part of it that makes it seem so special, requiring a transcendent explanation. \n\nA modern variation of the teleological argument is built upon the concept of the fine-tuned Universe: According to the website \"Biologos\": \"Fine-tuning refers to the surprising precision of nature's physical constants, and the beginning state of the Universe. To explain the present state of the universe, even the best scientific theories require that the physical constants of nature and the beginning state of the Universe have extremely precise values.\" Also, the fine-tuning of the Universe is the apparent delicate balance of conditions necessary for human life. In this view, speculation about a vast range of possible conditions in which life cannot exist is used to explore the probability of conditions in which life can and does exist. For example, it can be argued that if the force of the Big Bang explosion had been different by 1/10 to the sixtieth power or the strong interaction force was only 5% different, life would be impossible.Renowned physicist Stephen Hawking estimates that \"if the rate of the universe's expansion one second after the Big Bang had been smaller by even one part in a hundred thousand million million, the universe would have re-collapsed into a hot fireball due to gravitational attraction.\" In terms of a teleological argument, the intuition in relation to a fine-tuned universe would be that God must have been responsible, if achieving such perfect conditions is so improbable. However, in regard to fine-tuning, Kenneth Einar Himma writes: \"The mere fact that it is enormously improbable that an event occurred... by itself, gives us no reason to think that it occurred by design ... As intuitively tempting as it may be...\" Himma attributes the \"Argument from Suspicious Improbabilities\", a formalization of \"the fine-tuning intuition\" to George N. Schlesinger: To understand Schlesinger's argument, consider your reaction to two different events. If John wins a 1-in-1,000,000,000 lottery game, you would not immediately be tempted to think that John (or someone acting on his behalf) cheated. If, however, John won three consecutive 1-in-1,000 lotteries, you would immediately be tempted to think that John (or someone acting on his behalf) cheated. Schlesinger believes that the intuitive reaction to these two scenarios is epistemically justified. The structure of the latter event is such that it… justifies a belief that intelligent design is the cause… Despite the fact that the probability of winning three consecutive 1-in-1,000 games is exactly the same as the probability of winning one 1-in-1,000,000,000 game, the former event… warrants an inference of intelligent design.\n\nHimma considers Schlesinger's argument to be subject to the same vulnerabilities he noted in other versions of the design argument: While Schlesinger is undoubtedly correct in thinking that we are justified in suspecting design in the case [of winning] three consecutive lotteries, it is because—and only because—we know two related empirical facts about such events. First, we already know that there exist intelligent agents who have the right motivations and causal abilities to deliberately bring about such events. Second, we know from past experience with such events that they are usually explained by the deliberate agency of one or more of these agents. Without at least one of these two pieces of information, we are not obviously justified in seeing design in such cases… [T]he problem for the fine-tuning argument is that we lack both of the pieces that are needed to justify an inference of design. First, the very point of the argument is to establish the fact that there exists an intelligent agency that has the right causal abilities and motivations to bring the existence of a universe capable of sustaining life. Second, and more obviously, we do not have any past experience with the genesis of worlds and are hence not in a position to know whether the existence of fine-tuned universes are usually explained by the deliberate agency of some intelligent agency. Because we lack this essential background information, we are not justified in inferring that there exists an intelligent Deity who deliberately created a universe capable of sustaining life.\n\nAntony Flew, who spent most of his life as an atheist, converted to deism late in life, and postulated \"an intelligent being as involved in some way in the design of conditions that would allow life to arise and evolve\". He concluded that the fine-tuning of the universe was too precise to be the result of chance, so accepted the existence of God. He said that his commitment to \"go where the evidence leads\" meant that he ended up accepting the existence of God. Flew proposed the view, held earlier by Fred Hoyle, that the universe is too young for life to have developed purely by chance and that, therefore, an intelligent being must exist which was involved in designing the conditions required for life to evolve.\n\nA version of the argument from design is central to both creation science and Intelligent design, but unlike Paley's openness to deistic design through God-given laws, proponents seek scientific confirmation of repeated miraculous interventions in the history of life, and argue that their theistic science should be taught in science classrooms.\n\nThe teaching of evolution was effectively barred from United States public school curricula by the outcome of the 1925 Scopes Trial, but in the 1960s the National Defense Education Act led to the Biological Sciences Curriculum Study reintroducing the teaching of evolution. In response, there was a resurgence of creationism, now presented as \"creation science\", based on biblical literalism but with Bible quotes optional. (\"Explicit references to the Bible were optional: Morris's 1974 book \"Scientific Creationism\" came in two versions, one with Bible quotes, and one without.\")\n\nA 1989 survey found that virtually all literature promoting creation science presented the design argument, with John D. Morris saying \"any living thing gives such strong evidence for design by an intelligent designer that only a willful ignorance of the data (II Peter 3:5) could lead one to assign such intricacy to chance.\" Such publications introduced concepts central to intelligent design, including \"irreducible complexity\" (a variant of the watchmaker analogy) and \"specified complexity\" (closely resembling a fine-tuning argument). The United States Supreme Court ruling on \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" barred the teaching of \"Creation Science\" in public schools because it breached the separation of church and state, and a group of creationists rebranded Creation Science as \"intelligent design\" which was presented as a scientific theory rather than as a religious argument.\n\nScientists disagreed with the assertion that intelligent design is scientific, and its introduction into the science curriculum of a Pennsylvania school district led to the 2005 \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" trial, which ruled that the \"intelligent design\" arguments are essentially religious in nature and not science. The court took evidence from theologian John F. Haught, and ruled that \"ID is not a new scientific argument, but is rather an old religious argument for the existence of God. He traced this argument back to at least Thomas Aquinas in the 13th century, who framed the argument as a syllogism: Wherever complex design exists, there must have been a designer; nature is complex; therefore nature must have had an intelligent designer.\" \"This argument for the existence of God was advanced early in the 19th century by Reverend Paley\": \"The only apparent difference between the argument made by Paley and the argument for ID, as expressed by defense expert witnesses Behe and Minnich, is that ID's 'official position' does not acknowledge that the designer is God.\"\n\nProponents of the intelligent design movement such as Cornelius G. Hunter, have asserted that the methodological naturalism upon which science is based is religious in nature. They commonly refer to it as 'scientific materialism' or as 'methodological materialism' and conflate it with 'metaphysical naturalism'. They use this assertion to support their claim that modern science is atheistic, and contrast it with their preferred approach of a revived natural philosophy which welcomes supernatural explanations for natural phenomena and supports theistic science. This ignores the distinction between science and religion, established in Ancient Greece, in which science can not use supernatural explanations.\n\nIntelligent design advocate and biochemist Michael Behe proposed a development of Paley's watch analogy in which he argued in favour of intelligent design. Unlike Paley, Behe only attempts to prove the existence of an intelligent designer, rather than the God of classical theism. Behe uses the analogy of a mousetrap to propose irreducible complexity: he argues that if a mousetrap loses just one of its parts, it can no longer function as a mousetrap. He argues that irreducible complexity in an object guarantees the presence of intelligent design. Behe claims that there are instances of irreducible complexity in the natural world and that parts of the world must have been designed. This negative argument against step by step evolution ignores longstanding evidence that evolution proceeds through changes of function from preceding systems. The specific examples Behe proposes have been shown to have simpler homologues which could act as precursors with different functions. His arguments have been rebutted, both in general and in specific cases by numerous scientific papers. In response, Behe and others, \"ironically, given the absence of any detail in their own explanation, complain that the proffered explanations lack sufficient detail to be empirically tested.\"\n\nUniversity of Chicago geneticist James A. Shapiro, writing in the Boston Review, states that advancements in genetics and molecular biology, and \"the growing realization that cells have molecular computing networks which process information about internal operations and about the external environment to make decisions controlling growth, movement, and differentiation\", have implications for the teleological argument. Shapiro states that these \"natural genetic engineering\" systems, can produce radical reorganizations of the \"genetic apparatus within a single cell generation\". Shapiro suggests what he calls a 'Third Way'; a non-creationist, non-Darwinian type of evolution:\n\nIn his book, \"Evolution: A View from the 21st Century\", Shapiro refers to this concept of \"natural genetic engineering\", which he says, has proved troublesome, because many scientists feel that it supports the intelligent design argument. He suggests that \"function-oriented capacities [can] be attributed to cells\", even though this is \"the kind of teleological thinking that scientists have been taught to avoid at all costs\".\n\nThe original development of the argument from design was in reaction to atomistic, explicitly non-teleological understandings of nature. Socrates, as reported by Plato and Xenophon, was reacting to such natural philosophers. While less has survived from the debates of the Hellenistic and Roman eras, it is clear from sources such as Cicero and Lucretius, that debate continued for generations, and several of the striking metaphors used to still today such as the unseen watchmaker, and the infinite monkey theorem, have their roots in this period. While the Stoics became the most well-known proponents of the argument from design, the atomistic counter arguments were refined most famously by the Epicureans. On the one hand, they criticized the evidence for there being evidence of an intelligent design to nature and the logic of the Stoics. On the defensive side, they were faced with the challenge of explaining how un-directed chance can cause something which appears to be a rational order. Much of this defence revolved around arguments such as the infinite monkey metaphor. Democritus had already apparently used such arguments at the time of Socrates, saying that there will be infinite planets, and only some having an order like the planet we know. But the Epicureans refined this argument, by proposing that the actual number of types of atoms in nature is small, not infinite, making it less coincidental that after a long period of time, certain orderly outcomes will result.\n\nThese were not the only positions held in classical times. A more complex position also continued to be held by some schools, such as the Neoplatonists, who, like Plato and Aristotle, insisted that Nature did indeed have a rational order, but were concerned about how to describe the way in which this rational order is caused. According to Plotinus for example, Plato's metaphor of a craftsman should be seen only as a metaphor, and Plato should be understood as agreeing with Aristotle that the rational order in nature works through a form of causation unlike everyday causation. In fact, according to this proposal each thing already has its own nature, fitting into a rational order, whereby the thing itself is \"in need of, and directed towards, what is higher or better\".\n\nLouis Loeb writes that David Hume, in his \"Enquiry\", \"insists that inductive inference cannot justify belief in extended objects\". Loeb also quotes Hume as writing:It is only when two species of objects are found to be constantly conjoined, that we can infer the one from the other ... If experience and observation and analogy be, indeed, the only guides which we can reasonably follow in inference of this nature; both the effect and cause must bear a similarity and resemblance to other effects and causes ... which we have found, in many instances, to be conjoined with another ... [The proponents of the argument] always suppose the universe, an effect quite singular and unparalleled, to be the proof of a Deity, a cause no less singular and unparalleled.\nLoeb notes that \"we observe neither God nor other universes, and hence no conjunction\ninvolving them. There is no observed conjunction to ground an inference either\nto extended objects or to God, as unobserved causes.\"\nHume also presented a criticism of the argument in his \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\". The character \"Philo\", a religious sceptic, voices Hume's criticisms of the argument. He argues that the design argument is built upon a faulty analogy as, unlike with man-made objects, we have not witnessed the design of a universe, so do not know whether the universe was the result of design. Moreover, the size of the universe makes the analogy problematic: although our experience of the universe is of order, there may be chaos in other parts of the universe. Philo argues:\n\nPhilo also proposes that the order in nature may be due to nature alone. If nature contains a principle of order within it, the need for a designer is removed. Philo argues that even if the universe is indeed designed, it is unreasonable to justify the conclusion that the designer must be an omnipotent, omniscient, benevolent God – the God of classical theism. It is impossible, he argues, to infer the perfect nature of a creator from the nature of its creation. Philo argues that the designer may have been defective or otherwise imperfect, suggesting that the universe may have been a poor first attempt at design. Hume also pointed out that the argument does not necessarily lead to the existence of one God: “why may not several deities combine in contriving and framing the world?” (p. 108).\n\nWesley C. Salmon developed Hume's insights, arguing that all things in the universe which exhibit order are, to our knowledge, created by material, imperfect, finite beings or forces. He also argued that there are no known instances of an immaterial, perfect, infinite being creating anything. Using the probability calculus of Bayes Theorem, Salmon concludes that it is very improbable that the universe was created by the type of intelligent being theists argue for.\n\nNancy Cartwright accuses Salmon of begging the question. One piece of evidence he uses in his probabilistic argument – that atoms and molecules are not caused by design – is equivalent to the conclusion he draws, that the universe is probably not caused by design. The atoms and molecules are what the universe is made up of and whose origins are at issue. Therefore, they cannot be used as evidence against the theistic conclusion.\n\nReferring to it as the physico-theological proof, Immanuel Kant discussed the teleological argument in his Critique of Pure Reason. Even though he referred to it as \"the oldest, clearest and most appropriate to human reason\", he nevertheless rejected it, heading section VI with the words, \"On the impossibility of a physico-theological proof\". In accepting some of Hume's criticisms, Kant wrote that the argument \"proves at most intelligence only in the arrangement of the 'matter' of the universe, and hence the existence not of a 'Supreme Being', but of an 'Architect. Using the argument to try to prove the existence of God required \"a concealed appeal to the Ontological argument\".\n\nIn his \"Traité de métaphysique\" Voltaire argued that, even if the argument from design could prove the existence of a powerful intelligent designer, it would not prove that this designer is God.\nSøren Kierkegaard questioned the existence of God, rejecting all rational arguments for God's existence (including the teleological argument) on the grounds that reason is inevitably accompanied by doubt. He proposed that the argument from design does not take into consideration future events which may serve to undermine the proof of God's existence: the argument would never finish proving God's existence. In the \"Philosophical Fragments\", Kierkegaard writes:\n\nRichard Dawkins is harshly critical of intelligent design in his book \"The God Delusion.\" In this book, he contends that an appeal to intelligent design can provide no explanation for biology because it not only begs the question of the designer's own origin but raises additional questions: an intelligent designer must itself be far more complex and difficult to explain than anything it is capable of designing. He believes the chances of life arising on a planet like the Earth are many orders of magnitude less probable than most people would think, but the anthropic principle effectively counters skepticism with regard to improbability. For example Astronomer Fred Hoyle suggested that potential for life on Earth was no more probable than a Boeing 747 being assembled by a hurricane from the scrapyard. Dawkins argues that a one-time event is indeed subject to improbability but once under way, natural selection itself is nothing like random chance. Furthermore, he refers to his counter argument to the argument from improbability by that same name:\n\nDawkins considered the argument from improbability to be \"much more powerful\" than the teleological argument, or argument from design, although he sometimes implies the terms are used interchangeably. He paraphrases St. Thomas' teleological argument as follows: \"Things in the world, especially living things, look as though they have been designed. Nothing that we know looks designed unless it is designed. Therefore there must have been a designer, and we call him God.\"\n\nPhilosopher Edward Feser has accused Dawkins of misunderstanding the teleological argument, particularly Aquinas' version.\n\nGeorge H. Smith, in his book \"Atheism: The Case Against God\", points out what he considers to be a flaw in the argument from design:\nNow consider the idea that nature itself is the product of design. How could this be demonstrated? Nature… provides the basis of comparison by which we distinguish between designed objects and natural objects. We are able to infer the presence of design only to the extent that the characteristics of an object differ from natural characteristics. Therefore, to claim that nature as a whole was designed is to destroy the basis by which we differentiate between artifacts and natural objects.\n\nThe philosopher of biology Michael Ruse has argued that Darwin treated the structure of organisms as if they had a purpose: \"the organism-as-if-it-were-designed-by God picture was absolutely central to Darwin's thinking in 1862, as it always had been.\" He refers to this as \"the metaphor of design ... Organisms give the appearance of being designed, and thanks to Charles Darwin's discovery of natural selection we know why this is true.\" In his review of Ruse's book, R.J. Richards writes, \"Biologists quite routinely refer to the design of organisms and their traits, but properly speaking it's \"apparent\" design to which they refer – an 'as if' design.\" Robert Foley refers to this as \"the illusion of purpose, design, and progress\". He adds, \"there is no purpose in a fundamentally causative manner in evolution but that the processes of selection and adaptation give the illusion of purpose through the utter functionality and designed nature of the biological world.\"\n\nRichard Dawkins suggests that while biology can at first seem to be purposeful and ordered, upon closer inspection its true function becomes questionable. Dawkins rejects the claim that biology serves any designed function, claiming rather that biology only mimics such purpose. In his book \"The Blind Watchmaker\", Dawkins states that animals are the most complex things in the known universe: \"Biology is the study of complicated things that give the appearance of having been designed for a purpose.\" He argues that natural selection should suffice as an explanation of biological complexity without recourse to divine provenance.\n\nHowever, theologian Alister McGrath has pointed out that the fine-tuning of carbon is even responsible for nature's ability to tune itself to any degree.[The entire biological] evolutionary process depends upon the unusual chemistry of carbon, which allows it to bond to itself, as well as other elements, creating highly complex molecules that are stable over prevailing terrestrial temperatures, and are capable of conveying genetic information (especially DNA). ... Whereas it might be argued that nature creates its own fine-tuning, this can only be done if the primordial constituents of the universe are such that an evolutionary process can be initiated. The unique chemistry of carbon is the ultimate foundation of the capacity of nature to tune itself.\n\nProponents of intelligent design creationism, such as William A. Dembski question the philosophical assumptions made by critics with regard to what a designer would or would not do. Dembski claims that such arguments are not merely beyond the purview of science: often they are tacitly or overtly theological while failing to provide a serious analysis of the hypothetical objective's relative merit. Some critics, such as Stephen Jay Gould suggest that any purported 'cosmic' designer would only produce optimal designs, while there are numerous biological criticisms to demonstrate that such an ideal is manifestly untenable. Against these ideas, Dembski characterizes both Dawkins' and Gould's argument as a rhetorical straw man. He suggests a principle of constrained optimization more realistically describes the best any designer could hope to achieve:\n\nFideists may reject attempts to prove God's existence. For example, Calvinist theologian Karl Barth held that God can be known only through Jesus Christ, as revealed in scripture, and that any such attempts should be considered idolotry.\n\nThe teleological argument assumes that one can infer the existence of intelligent design merely by examination, and because life is reminiscent of something a human might design, it too must have been designed. However, considering \"snowflakes and crystals of certain salts\", \"[i]n no case do we find intelligence\". \"There are other ways that order and design can come about\" such as by \"purely physical forces\".\n\nThe design claim can be challenged as an argument from analogy. Supporters of design suggest that natural objects and man-made objects have many similar properties, and man-made objects have a designer. Therefore, it is probable that natural objects must be designed as well. However, proponents must demonstrate that all the available evidence has been taken into account. Eric Rust argues that, when speaking of familiar objects such as watches, \"we have a basis to make an inference from such an object to its designer\". However, the \"universe is a unique and isolated case\" and we have nothing to compare it with, so \"we have no basis for making an inference such as we can with individual objects. ... We have no basis for applying to the whole universe what may hold of constituent elements in the universe.\"\n\nMost professional biologists support the modern evolutionary synthesis, not merely as an alternative explanation for the complexity of life but a better explanation with more supporting evidence. Living organisms obey the same physical laws as inanimate objects. Over very long periods of time self-replicating structures arose and later formed DNA.\n\nNyaya, the Hindu school of logic, had a version of the argument from design. P.G. Patil writes that, in this view, it is not the complexity of the world from which one can infer the existence of a creator, but the fact that \"the world is made up of parts\". In this context, it is the Supreme Soul, Ishvara, who created all the world.\n\nThe argument is in five parts:\n\nHowever, other Hindu schools, such as Samkhya, deny that the existence of God can ever be proved, because such a creator can never be perceived. Krishna Mohan Banerjee, in his \"Dialogues on the Hindu Philosophy\", has the Samkhya speaker saying, \"the existence of God cannot be established because there is no proof. ... nor can it be proved by Inference, because you cannot exhibit an analogous instance.\"\n\nBuddhism denies the existence of a creator god, and rejects the Nyaya syllogism for the teleological argument as being \"logically flawed\". Buddhists argue that \"the 'creation' of the world cannot be shown to be analogous to the creation of a human artifact, such as a pot.\"\n\nThe 18th century German philosopher Christian Wolff once thought that Confucius was a godless man, and that \"the ancient Chinese had no natural religion, since they did not know the creator of the world\". However, later, Wolff changed his mind to some extent. \"On Wolff's reading, Confucius's religious perspective is thus more or less the weak deistic one of Hume's Cleanthes\".\n\nThe Taoist writings of the 6th century BC philosopher Laozi, also known as Lao Tzu, have similarities with modern naturalist science. B. Schwartz notes that, in Taoism, \"The processes of nature are not guided by a teleological consciousness ... the tao [dao] is not consciously providential.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10849474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10849474", "title": "Text publication society", "text": "Text publication society\n\nA text publication society is a learned society which publishes (either as its sole function, or as a principal function) scholarly editions of old works of historical or literary interest, or archival documents. In addition to full texts, a text publication society may publish translations, calendars and indexes.\n\nMembers of the society (private individuals or institutions) pay an annual subscription, in return for which they either automatically receive a copy of each volume as it is published, or (as in the case of, for example, the Royal Historical Society) are eligible to purchase volumes at favourable members' rates. Some societies attempt to keep to a regular cycle of publishing (generally one volume per year, as in the case of the London Record Society and the Canterbury and York Society: the Royal Historical Society, exceptionally, aims for two volumes per year). Others, however, publish on an irregular and occasional basis, as the completion of editorial work allows. Volumes are usually also made available for sale to non-members, but the price is invariably higher than that paid (either as the retail price or through subscriptions) by members, thereby establishing an incentive for interested parties to join. The model originated and is most commonly found in the United Kingdom, but has also been adopted in other countries. \n\nIn the 19th century, when many of the societies were founded, they were sometimes known as book clubs. They have also been termed printing clubs. Those that publish exclusively archival material are often known as record societies or records societies.\n\nThe principle of subscription publishing – that is, of funding the publication of a volume by securing multiple advance subscriptions from individuals interested in buying the final product – was first established in the 17th century, and routinely adopted during the 18th. The idea of extending the model to the membership of a society was initiated by the Roxburghe Club, founded in 1812 as a convivial association of bibliophiles, but which rapidly introduced the principle that each member should sponsor the publication of an edition of a rare work of interest to members, and that other volumes would be published by the Club collectively. In both cases the volumes were intended for distribution to the entire membership. The Club's first publication, donated by Sir William Bolland and issued in 1814, was the Earl of Surrey's translation of parts of Virgil's \"Aeneid\", originally printed in 1557.\n\nOne early Roxburghe Club member (from 1822) was Sir Walter Scott, who was inspired by it to establish the Bannatyne Club to print works of interest for Scottish tradition, literature and history. Other special-interest societies followed. In contrast to the exclusive Roxburghe Club (which had an elite membership and issued its publications as luxurious limited editions), most had broad membership criteria, and had as their primary objective the dissemination of valuable historical texts as widely as possible. Nevertheless, their activities tended to appeal to the \"monied and educated\" classes: in 1838, 20% of the Camden Society's members were clergymen, 9% held legal qualifications, and 36% were Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries.\n\nSuccess being dependent on fund-raising and the attraction of new members, the early societies often suffered from financial and organisational troubles. Controversy followed Frederick James Furnivall, a prime mover in many of the early ventures. In the second half of the 19th century the government-sponsored Rolls Series took over some of the territory of the amateur societies, particularly in respect of the publication of chronicles. The productions of several of the early societies included literary texts, but by the end of the 19th century the majority of societies were tending to focus instead on the publication of archival records. This continued to be the pattern in the 20th century.\n\nThe Durham-based Surtees Society, founded in 1834 and modelled in part on the Scottish Bannatyne and Maitland Clubs, was the first English society to adopt a specifically \"regional\" remit, in its case the elucidation of the history of the area constituting the ancient kingdom of Northumbria. Its establishment was deeply rooted in local pride: in an early prospectus, James Raine (its principal founder and first secretary) drew attention to just a few unpublished manuscripts of Durham interest, \"which, in these times, few individuals would incur the risk of printing at their own cost; but which nevertheless, afford even singly, how much more collectively, the most valuable materials to those who are anxious to study rightly the History of our forefathers under its different characters\". The Chetham Society, founded in 1843, concerned itself in much the same way with the counties of Lancashire and Cheshire. From the 1880s onwards, many societies focused on a single county. A particularly energetic advocate was W. P. W. Phillimore, who was active in the foundation of the British Record Society, Scottish Record Society, Thoroton Society, Canterbury and York Society, and Irish Record Society. \n\nSeveral county archaeological and historical societies undertook text publication as just one among a broader range of activities, and in certain cases – for example, the Yorkshire Archaeological and Historical Society and the Kent Archaeological Society – continue to do so. In other cases, a new society has broken away from its parent archaeological society to become an independent body dedicated solely to text publication: examples include the Surrey Record Society and the Wiltshire Record Society.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "428675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428675", "title": "The Battle of the Books", "text": "The Battle of the Books\n\n\"The Battle of the Books\" is the name of a short satire written by Jonathan Swift and published as part of the prolegomena to his \"A Tale of a Tub\" in 1704. It depicts a literal battle between books in the King's Library (housed in St James's Palace at the time of the writing), as ideas and authors struggle for supremacy. Because of the satire, \"The Battle of the Books\" has become a term for the Quarrel of the Ancients and the Moderns.\n\nIn France at the end of the seventeenth century, a minor furore arose over the question of whether contemporary learning had surpassed what was known by those in Classical Greece and Rome. The \"moderns\" (epitomised by Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle) took the position that the modern age of science and reason was superior to the superstitious and limited world of Greece and Rome. In his opinion, modern man saw farther than the ancients ever could. The \"ancients,\" for their part, argued that all that is necessary to be known was still to be found in Virgil, Cicero, Homer, and especially Aristotle.\n\nThis literary contest was re-enacted in miniature in England when Sir William Temple published an answer to Fontenelle entitled \"Of Ancient and Modern Learning\" in 1690. His essay introduced two metaphors to the debate that would be reused by later authors. First, he proposed that modern man was just a dwarf standing upon the \"shoulders of giants\" (that modern man saw farther because he begins with the observations and learning of the ancients). They possessed a clear view of nature, and modern man only reflected/refined their vision. These metaphors, of the dwarf/giant and the reflecting/emanative light, would show up in Swift's satire and others. Temple's essay was answered by Richard Bentley, the classicist and William Wotton, the critic. Temple's friends/clients, sometimes known as the \"Christ Church Wits,\" referring to their association with Christ Church, Oxford and the guidance of Francis Atterbury, then attacked the \"moderns\" (and Wotton in particular). The debate in England lasted only for a few years.\n\nWilliam Temple was by that point a retired minister, the Secretary of State for Charles II who had conducted peace negotiations with France. As a minister, it was beneath his station to answer common and \"professional\" (known then as \"hack\") authors, so most of the battle took place between Temple's enemies and Temple's proxies. Notably, Jonathan Swift was not among the participants, though he was working as Temple's secretary. Therefore, it is likely that the quarrel was more of a spur to Swift's imagination than a debate that he felt inclined to enter.\n\nJonathan Swift worked for William Temple during the time of the controversy, and Swift's \"A Tale of a Tub\" (1703/1705) takes part in the debate. From its first publication, Swift added a short satire entitled \"The Battle of the Books\" to the \"Tale of a Tub.\" In this piece, there is an epic battle fought in a library when various books come alive and attempt to settle the arguments between moderns and ancients. In Swift's satire, he skilfully manages to avoid saying which way victory fell. He portrays the manuscript as having been damaged in places, thus leaving the end of the battle up to the reader.\n\nThe battle is told with great detail to particular authors jousting with their replacements and critics. The battle is not just between Classical authors and modern authors, but also between authors and critics. The prose is a parody of heroic poetry along the lines of Samuel Butler's parody of battle in \"Hudibras\".\n\nThe combat in the \"Battle\" is interrupted by the interpolated allegory of the spider and the bee. A spider, \"swollen up to the first Magnitude, by the Destruction of infinite Numbers of Flies\" resides like a castle holder above a top shelf, and a bee, flying from the natural world and drawn by curiosity, wrecks the spider's web. The spider curses the bee for clumsiness and for wrecking the work of one who is his better. The spider says that his web is his home, a stately manor, while the bee is a vagrant who goes anywhere in nature without any concern for reputation. The bee answers that he is doing the bidding of nature, aiding in the fields, while the spider's castle is merely what was drawn from its own body, which has \"a good plentiful Store of Dirt and Poison.\" This allegory was already somewhat old before Swift employed it, and it is a digression within the \"Battle\" proper. However, it also illustrates the theme of the whole work. The bee is like the ancients and like authors: it gathers its materials from nature and sings its drone song in the fields. The spider is like the moderns and like critics: it kills the weak and then spins its web (books of criticism) from the taint of its own body digesting the viscera.\n\nIn one sense, the \"Battle of the Books\" illustrates one of the great themes that Swift would explore in \"A Tale of a Tub\": the madness of pride involved in believing one's own age to be supreme and the inferiority of derivative works. One of the attacks in the \"Tale\" was on those who believe that being \"readers\" of works makes them the equals of the \"creators\" of works. The other satire Swift affixed to the \"Tale\", \"The Mechanical Operation of the Spirit,\" illustrates the other theme: an inversion of the figurative and literal as a part of madness.\n\nSwift's \"Battle\" owed a great deal to Boileau's \"Le Lutrin,\" although it was not a translation. Instead, it was an English work based on the same premise. However, John Ozell attempted to answer Swift with his translation of \"Le Lutrin,\" where the battle sees Tory authors skewered by Whigs. This prompted a satire of Ozell by Swift and by Alexander Pope. Further, other \"battles of the books\" appeared after Swift's. Often, these were merely political attacks, as in the later \"Battel of the Poets\" (1729, by Edward Cooke), which was an attack on Alexander Pope. As a set piece or \"topos\" of 18th-century satire, the \"Battle of the Books\" was a standard shorthand for both the Quarrel of the Ancients and Moderns and the era of Swift's battle with William Wotton.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32896826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32896826", "title": "The Book Thing", "text": "The Book Thing\n\nThe Book Thing of Baltimore is a 501(c) non-profit charity, located in Baltimore, Maryland, United States, created in September 1999 for the purpose of giving away books. It was created and is operated by Russel Wattenberg, a former bartender who was inspired to create a system for distributing books to impoverished students. The estimated number of books at The Book Thing is 200,000, and they come from a variety of sources including people, businesses, and organizations. The Book Thing was incorporated by a board of neighborhood volunteers. The Book Thing is open on weekends and is run by around 30 volunteers.\n\nOn March 2, 2016, a fire broke out in the early morning, which was extinguished by the Baltimore Fire Department. The fire, which was confined to one room of the warehouse, did not destroy all the contents, but ruined approximately one-third of the books stored there; other rooms suffered smoke and soot deposition only. The Book Thing ceased accepting new book donations, but continues to accept monetary donations via their website. Volunteers assisted with cleanup of books both for disposal and for distribution the following Saturday. \n\nAfter a period of cash donations, fundraisers, and new books, the place was reopened in October 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "34416873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34416873", "title": "The British Edda", "text": "The British Edda\n\nThe British Edda is a 1930 English, Sumerian and Egyptian linguistics and mythology book written by Laurence Waddell about the adventures of El, Wodan and Loki forming an Eden Triad in the Garden of Eden. It also references Thor and King Arthur having adventures in Eden.\n\nThe spine of the book features a swastika \"imprinted in gold color\". The swastika was chosen because of it being a \"Sun-cult symbol to the Phoenicians and Hittites\", two subjects covered in the book. The front of the book features an image of the Snake Goddess from the Boston Goddess collection. According to Waddell the statuette was first created in 2700 B.C. as an example of \"Eve or Ifo, Gunn-Ifo or Guen-Ever, as Serpent-Priestess of Eden before marriage with King Her-Thor, Arthur, or Adam\". He also stated his belief that the Snake Goddess was from a representation of \"prototypes\" from Sumerian and Hittite gods, rather than from Crete as is commonly thought.\n\nThe title of the book, \"The British Edda\", was chosen because of Waddell's belief that the work upon which his translation was based, the Elder Edda, was mistakenly believed by many to be written in Scandinavian. Waddell, meanwhile, objected to this, explaining that the language had been found to be from an Icelandic family that had originally come from Scotland. Due to this, Waddell used the word British in the title to emphasize where the Elder Edda had come from. This belief was endorsed by other scholars in the 1970s, when it was decided that the language was not Scandinavian, and the Elder Edda was transferred to Iceland for safekeeping. Waddell also went on to state that many other Eddic poems had been written in the British Isles before and up to the 6th century, but that most of them had been eradicated in the 11th century by Christian missionaries, contributing to the confusion.\n\nOne of the subjects discussed in \"The British Edda\" is the \"genesis of civilization\", which, as stated by Waddell, was commonly believed in the \"pagan days\" in Britain to be in \"Cappadocia and Eden\", but was very broad due to the lack of knowledge about the region beyond mere stories and also no knowledge of specific place names. This oral tradition of stories was written down on \"parchment by 'the Learned'\", composed into what is known as the \"Elder Edda\". Waddell also explained that other works that copied down the stories were made, but all of these had been destroyed by Christian missionaries in Britain, leaving only the one work. These stories returned to the common populace in the 12th century by being melded into the \"Arthurian legends\", while the original sources of Cappadocia, the Trojans, and Sumeria were lost.\n\nWaddell's writings on the origins of civilization would soon after influence the poetry of Hugh MacDiarmid from 1937 on, impressing on him the belief that the \"original impetus to civilization was an Ur-Gaelic initiative\". This belief was later incorporated into his poems, such as in \"The Fingers of Baal Contract in the Communist Salute\".\n\nIn two letters Charles Olson wrote to Frances Boldereff in July 1950, Olson discussed Waddell's works and specifically commented on \"The British Edda\", stating that, in it, Waddell \"dances all over this thing, like some damned witch doctor, trying to squeeze out the old and lost history\", referring to the discussion in the book on how the Sumerians were the origination of civilization. \"The British Edda\" and one of Waddell's other works, \"The Makers of Civilization in Race and History\", would go on to inspire Olson's essay titled \"The Gate and the Center\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20583577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20583577", "title": "The Storming of the Winter Palace", "text": "The Storming of the Winter Palace\n\nThe Storming of the Winter Palace was a 1920 mass spectacle, based on historical events that took place in Petrograd during the 1917 October Revolution.\n\nTaking place on the third anniversary of the revolution, it was directed by Nikolai Evreinov and was subtitled a \"mass action.\" The sets were designed by Yuri Annenkov. The spectacle was staged outside the former Tsarist Winter Palace where the Provisional Government was meeting at the time of the Bolshevik revolution. Its performers included 125 ballet dancers, 100 circus people, 1,750 supernumeraries and students, 200 women, 260 secondary actors, and 150 assistants. There were also tanks and armoured cars involved.\n\nThe mass spectacle form took the pre-revolutionary Symbolist utopias of \"ritual theatre\" (whose formulation was largely a response to the abortive 1905 revolution), and recast their \"people\" as the proletariat. Performed on 7 November before 100,000 spectators, the action begins with the February Revolution, follows the gradual organization of the workers (on a red stage to the left, with Kerensky and the Provisional Government on a white stage to the right), until they are illuminated fully by searchlights, and crying \"Lenin, Lenin\" charge over the arch which joins the two stages to do battle with the \"Whites.\" Kerensky leaps to a car for an escape, and is pursued along a path between the two large groups of spectators by trucks full of the Red Guard waving bayonets, to the Palace. Silhouettes struggle in the windows of the Palace, until the Red Army is finally successful, and red lights flash out. A cannon fired from the cruiser \"Aurora\" and fireworks herald the victory of the October Revolution. \n\nEvreinov's dramatic creation was extremely influential in the commemoration of the deposition of the Provisional Government, which in reality took place at night and was much less dramatic than depicted either in Evreinov's spectacle or in Sergei Eisenstein's feature film \"\" (1927). One of the over 100 surviving photographs from the spectacle, pictured above, was presented from 1922 on in many Soviet and also foreign publications as an authentic image from the events of 1917. For this purpose, the picture was heavily retouched, with the spectators on the right and a tower-like construction for directing the participants removed. The image is sometimes also misinterpreted as a film still from \"October\", though the \"storming\" in the film is set (historically correctly) at night, not during the day as in the photograph.\n\n"}
{"id": "4080707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4080707", "title": "Théodore de Mayerne", "text": "Théodore de Mayerne\n\nSir Théodore Turquet de Mayerne (28 September 1573 – 22 March 1655) was a Genevan-born physician who treated kings of France and England and advanced the theories of Paracelsus.\nMayerne was born in a Huguenot family in Geneve, Republic of Geneva. His father was a Protestant French historian who had fled Lyon following the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre and his godfather was Theodore Beza. Mayerne's first wife was Marguerite de Boetslaer and they had three children.\n\nMayerne studied first in Geneve and later moved to the University of Heidelberg. Later he moved to Montpellier to study medicine, graduated 1596 and received his doctorate in 1597. His dissertation defended the use of chemical remedies in medicine, under the guidance of Joseph du Chesne; this was the first intimation of his interest in Paracelsian theories. In May 1599, Mayerne joined Henri de Rohan, a Huguenot nobleman very powerful in Brittany, on his grand tour of Europe, visiting Germany, Italy, Bohemia, the Netherlands, England, and Scotland. During their visit to London in October 1600, Rohan and Mayerne were received by Queen Elizabeth I at her court, and in November 1600, when they reached Edinburgh, they were received by King James VI, before returning to France in early 1601. Despite his austere Calvinism, Mayerne greatly admired the many works of art and architecture he saw in his travels in Germany and Italy, especially liking the paintings of Albrecht Dürer and the \"Kunstkammer\" in Munich of curios kept by the Duke of Bavaria.\n\nMayerne moved to Paris, lecturer on anatomy and pharmacy and founded a medical practice. By that time he had begun to support the views of Paracelsus and used many chemical remedies. He kept detailed notes about his patients, among them Armand du Plessis, later Cardinal Richelieu, whom he treated for gonorrhea in 1605.\n\nIn 1600 French royal physician Jean Ribit de la Rivière (1571–1605) sponsored him to become one of the personal physicians, physician in ordinary, of the king Henri IV. His other pursuits were thwarted because he was not a Catholic and because most French physicians still followed the principles of Galen. In 1603 he tried to support his views to Medical Faculty of Paris, stating that his views were not opposed to Galenic and Hippocratic principles.\n\nDespite their opposition, he retained the favour of the King, who appointed him to travel with the Duc de Rohan in his diplomatic missions to Germany and Italy. When the King intended to make Mayerne his first physician, the queen opposed the decision because Mayerne refused to convert to Catholicism. Mayerne continued in his lower post until 1606 when he sold it to another physician.\n\nAt this time he continued his association with du Chesne and the circle of Hermeticists that had grown up around him. These devotees of Paracelsus believed they were reviving the wisdom of the mythical pre-Platonic natural philosophers - men known as the \"prisci theologi\" that included Zoroaster and Hermes Trismegistus. The alchemical nature of their experiments was greatly resented by Galenists at the University of Paris.\n\nIn the same year he briefly visited England by invitation and met James I. He became a physician of Anne of Denmark and was incorporated at Oxford on April 8, 1606. He probably spent the following years back in France.\n\nWhen Henri IV was murdered in 1610, Mayerne moved to England, again by invitation. In 1611 he became first physician of James I and his queen and also treated most members of the royal court, including Sir Robert Cecil and Henry Frederick, Prince of Wales. His inability to successfully treat those two individuals, together with his closeness to the scandal surrounding the murder of Sir Thomas Overbury coloured his first years in England. Nevertheless, he was sometimes sent on diplomatic missions to France.\n\nIn 1616 Mayerne was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians. He helped the Society of Apothecaries to obtain a royal charter separate from the Grocers and helped to found the Company of Distillers. King knighted him in 1624. Next year he briefly visited Switzerland, where he had become Baron Aubonne. Mayerne retained his post as a first physician after the accession of Charles I in 1625.\n\nHe successfully championed the effort to produce the first official pharmacopoeia, which would specify treatments that apothecaries should provide for specific ailments. In this he included chemical remedies, which were easier to introduce in Protestant England than in Catholic France.\n\nIn 1628 his wife died and in 1630 he married Elizabeth Joachimi. They had five children but only one daughter survived. At about this time he treated Oliver Cromwell for a variety of physical and emotional symptoms, including a severe depression. In response to the Plague of 1630, he suggested the institution of a centralized 'Office of Health', with free royal hospitals, trained officials, and regulatory power.\n\nDuring the English Civil War Mayerne kept a low profile in his practice in London and retained the favour of the parliament. After the execution of Charles I in 1649, he became nominal physician to Charles II but soon retired to Chelsea.\n\nMayerne died at Chelsea on 22 March 1654 or 1655. He was buried in St Martin-in-the-Fields with most of his family and his godson Sir Theodore des Vaux sponsored a monument for him. Des Vaux later published Mayerne's medical notes in the book \"Praxis Medica\" in 1690.\n\nMayerne compiled the so-called 'de Mayerne manuscript' between 1620 and 1646 based on conversations with painters (and others). The manuscript includes contributions from Rubens, van Dyck, Mytens, Paul van Somer, and Cornelius Johnson. His estate included copious amount of medical manuscripts, including detailed notes about his patients, most of it in Latin and French; his patients ranged from John Donne to Oliver Cromwell. His papers are kept in the Royal College of Physicians.\n\nHis influence on the administration of medicine - including the first suggestion of socialized medicine in England, and the standardisation of chemical cures, has been widely recognised.\n\nHis 'Paracelsian' outlook, which viewed the world as 'abounding in chemical secrets waiting to be exploited', led him to devise projects to enhance Scottish coal mines, to reopen lead mines in Europe and to monopolize oyster beds. He made chemical and physical experiments, created pigments and cosmetics, introduced calomel to medical use and created \"black-wash\" (lotio nigra). It also led him to an interest in cooking, and he grew obese in later years.\n\nIn 1634, he wrote the introduction for and edited one of the first treatises ever published on Insects (usually attributed to Thomas Muffet), under the title \"Insectorum, sive minimorum animalium Theatrum: Olim ab Edoardo Wottono, Conrado Gesnero, Thomaque Pennio inchoatum: Tandem Tho. Moufeti Londinâtis operâ sumptibusque maximis concinnatum, auctum, perfectum: Et ad vivum expressis Iconibus suprà quingentis illustratum. Londini ex Officinâ typographicâ Thom. Cotes. Et venales extant apud Benjam. Allen, in diverticulo, quod Anglicè dicitur Popes-head Alley.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19904525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19904525", "title": "Transgender", "text": "Transgender\n\nTransgender people have a gender identity or gender expression that differs from their assigned sex. Transgender people are sometimes called \"transsexual\" if they desire medical assistance to transition from one sex to another. \"Transgender\" is also an umbrella term: in addition to including people whose gender identity is the opposite of their assigned sex (trans men and trans women), it may include people who are not exclusively masculine or feminine (people who are genderqueer or non-binary, including bigender, pangender, genderfluid, or agender). Other definitions of \"transgender\" also include people who belong to a third gender, or else conceptualize transgender people \"as\" a third gender. Infrequently, the term \"transgender\" is defined very broadly to include cross-dressers, regardless of their gender identity.\n\nBeing transgender is independent of sexual orientation: transgender people may identify as heterosexual, homosexual, bisexual, asexual, or may decline to label their sexual orientation. The term \"transgender\" is also distinguished from \"intersex\", a term that describes people born with physical sex characteristics \"that do not fit typical binary notions of male or female bodies\". The counterpart of \"transgender\" is \"cisgender\", which describes persons whose gender identity or expression matches their assigned sex.\n\nThe degree to which individuals feel genuine, authentic, and comfortable within their external appearance and accept their genuine identity has been called \"transgender congruence\".<ref name=\"10.1177/0361684312442161\"></ref> Many transgender people experience gender dysphoria, and some seek medical treatments such as hormone replacement therapy, sex reassignment surgery, or psychotherapy. Not all transgender people desire these treatments, and some cannot undergo them for financial or medical reasons.\n\nMost transgender people face discrimination in the workplace and in accessing public accommodations, and healthcare. In many places they are not legally protected from discrimination.\n\nPsychiatrist John F. Oliven of Columbia University coined the term \"transgender\" in his 1965 reference work \"Sexual Hygiene and Pathology\", writing that the term which had previously been used, \"transsexualism\", \"is misleading; actually, 'transgenderism' is meant, because sexuality is not a major factor in primary transvestism.\" The term \"transgender\" was then popularized with varying definitions by various transgender, transsexual, and transvestite people, including Virginia Prince, who used it in the December 1969 issue of \"Transvestia\", a national magazine for cross dressers she founded. By the mid-1970s both \"trans-gender\" and \"trans people\" were in use as umbrella terms, and 'transgenderist' was used to describe people who wanted to live cross-gender without sex reassignment surgery (SRS). By 1976, \"transgenderist\" was abbreviated as \"TG\" in educational materials.\n\nBy 1984, the concept of a \"transgender community\" had developed, in which \"transgender\" was used as an umbrella term. In 1985, Richard Elkins established the \"Trans-Gender Archive\" at the University of Ulster. By 1992, the International Conference on Transgender Law and Employment Policy defined \"transgender\" as an expansive umbrella term including \"transsexuals, transgenderists, cross dressers\", and anyone transitioning. Leslie Feinberg's pamphlet, \"Transgender Liberation: A Movement Whose Time has Come\", circulated in 1992, identified \"transgender\" as a term to unify all forms of gender nonconformity; in this way \"transgender\" has become synonymous with \"queer\".\n\nBetween the mid-1990s and the early 2000s, the primary terms used under the transgender umbrella were \"female to male\" (FtM) for men who transitioned from female to male, and \"male to female\" (MtF) for women who transitioned from male to female. These terms have now been superseded by \"trans man\" and \"trans woman\", respectively, and the terms \"trans-masculine\" or \"trans-feminine\" are increasingly in use. This shift in preference from terms highlighting biological sex (\"transsexual\", \"FtM\") to terms highlighting gender identity and expression (\"transgender\", \"trans woman\") reflects a broader shift in the understanding of transgender people's sense of self and the increasing recognition of those who decline medical reassignment as part of the transgender community.\n\nHealth-practitioner manuals, professional journalistic style guides, and LGBT advocacy groups advise the adoption by others of the name and pronouns identified by the person in question, including present references to the transgender person's past. Many also note that \"transgender\" should be used as an adjective, not a noun (for example, \"Max is transgender\" or \"Max is a transgender man\", not \"Max is a transgender\"), and that \"transgender\" should be used, not \"transgendered\".\n\nIn contrast, people whose sense of personal identity corresponds to the sex and gender assigned to them at birth – that is, those who are neither transgender nor non-binary or genderqueer – are called \"cisgender\".\n\nThe term \"transsexual\" was introduced to English in 1949 by David Oliver Cauldwell, and popularized by Harry Benjamin in 1966, around the same time \"transgender\" was coined and began to be popularized. Since the 1990s, \"transsexual\" has generally been used to describe the subset of \"transgender\" people who desire to transition permanently to the gender with which they identify and who seek medical assistance (for example, sex reassignment surgery) with this. However, the concerns of the two groups are sometimes different; for example, transsexual men and women who can pay for medical treatments (or who have institutional coverage for their treatment) are likely to be concerned with medical privacy and establishing a durable legal status as their gender later in life.\n\nDistinctions between the terms \"transgender\" and \"transsexual\" are commonly based on distinctions between \"gender\" (psychological, social) and \"sex\" (physical). Hence, transsexuality may be said to deal more with physical aspects of one's sex, while transgender considerations deal more with one's psychological gender disposition or predisposition, as well as the related social expectations that may accompany a given gender role. Many transgender people prefer the designation \"transgender\" and reject \"transsexual\". For example, Christine Jorgensen publicly rejected \"transsexual\" in 1979, and instead identified herself in newsprint as \"trans-gender\", saying, \"gender doesn't have to do with bed partners, it has to do with identity.\" This refers to the concern that \"transsexual\" implies something to do with sexuality, when it is actually about gender identity. Some transsexual people, however, object to being included in the \"transgender\" umbrella. The definitions of both terms have historically been variable.\n\nIn his 2007 book \"Transgender, an Ethnography of a Category\", anthropologist David Valentine asserts that \"transgender\" was coined and used by activists to include many people who do not necessarily identify with the term and states that people who do not identify with the term \"transgender\" should not be included in the transgender spectrum. Leslie Feinberg likewise asserts that \"transgender\" is not a self-identifier (for some people) but a category imposed by observers to understand other people. However, these assertions are contested by the Transgender Health Program (THP) at Fenway Health in Boston. It notes that there are no universally-accepted definitions, and terminology confusion is common because terms that were popular in at the turn of the 21st century may now be deemed offensive. The THP recommends that clinicians ask clients what terminology they prefer, and avoid the term \"transsexual\" unless they are sure that a client is comfortable with it.\n\nHarry Benjamin invented a classification system for transsexuals and transvestites, called the Sex Orientation Scale (SOS), in which he assigned transsexuals and transvestites to one of six categories based on their reasons for cross-dressing and the relative urgency of their need (if any) for sex reassignment surgery. Benjamin considered a moderate intensity \"true transsexual\" to need either estrogen or testosterone as a \"substitute for or preliminary to operation\"; people who meet Benjamin's definition of a \"true transsexual\" but do not desire SRS include Miriam Rivera. There are also people who have had SRS but do not meet the definition of \"transsexual\", such as Gregory Hemingway.\n\nIn addition to trans men and trans women whose binary gender identity is the opposite of their assigned sex, and who form the core of the \"transgender\" umbrella, being included in even the narrowest definitions of it, several other groups are included in broader definitions of the term. These include people whose gender identities are not exclusively masculine or feminine but may, for example, be androgynous, bigender, pangender, or agender—often grouped under the alternative umbrella term \"genderqueer\"—and third-gender people (alternatively, some references and some societies conceptualize transgender people as a third gender). Although some references define \"transgender\" very broadly to include transvestites / cross-dressers, they are usually excluded, as are transvestic fetishists (because they are considered to be expressing a paraphilia rather than a gender identification) and drag kings and drag queens (who are performers and cross-dress for the purpose of entertaining).\n\nGenderqueer or non-binary identities, which are not exclusively masculine or feminine but instead may be agender, androgynous, bigender, pangender, or genderfluid, exist outside of cisnormativity. Bigender and androgynous are overlapping categories; bigender individuals may identify as moving between male and female roles (genderfluid) or as being both male and female simultaneously (androgynous), and androgynes may similarly identify as beyond gender or genderless (postgender, agender), between genders (intergender), moving across genders (genderfluid), or simultaneously exhibiting multiple genders (pangender). Limited forms of androgyny are common (women wearing pants, men wearing earrings) and are not seen as transgender behavior. \"Androgyne\" is also sometimes used as a medical synonym for an intersex person. Genderqueer identities are independent of sexual orientation.\n\nA transvestite is a person who cross-dresses, or dresses in clothes typically associated with the gender opposite the one they were assigned at birth. The term \"transvestite\" is used as a synonym for the term \"cross-dresser\", although \"cross-dresser\" is generally considered the preferred term. The term \"cross-dresser\" is not exactly defined in the relevant literature. Michael A. Gilbert, professor at the Department of Philosophy, York University, Toronto, offers this definition: \"[A cross-dresser] is a person who has an apparent gender identification with one sex, and who has and certainly has been birth-designated as belonging to [that] sex, but who wears the clothing of the opposite sex because it is that of the opposite sex.\" This definition excludes people \"who wear opposite sex clothing for other reasons,\" such as \"those female impersonators who look upon dressing as solely connected to their livelihood, actors undertaking roles, individual males and females enjoying a masquerade, and so on. These individuals are cross dressing but are not cross dressers.\" Cross-dressers may not identify with, want to be, or adopt the behaviors or practices of the opposite gender and generally do not want to change their bodies medically. The majority of cross-dressers identify as heterosexual. People who cross-dress in public sometimes may have a desire to pass as the opposite gender, so as not to be detected as a cross-dresser.\n\nThe term \"transvestite\" and the associated outdated term \"transvestism\" are conceptually different from the term \"transvestic fetishism\", as \"transvestic fetishist\" describes those who intermittently use clothing of the opposite gender for fetishistic purposes. In medical terms, \"transvestic fetishism\" is differentiated from cross-dressing by use of the separate codes 302.3 in the DSM and F65.1 in the ICD.\n\n\"Drag\" is a term applied to clothing and makeup worn on special occasions for performing or entertaining, unlike those who are transgender or who cross-dress for other reasons. Drag performance includes overall presentation and behavior in addition to clothing and makeup. Drag can be theatrical, comedic, or grotesque. Drag queens have been considered caricatures of women by second-wave feminism. Drag artists have a long tradition in LGBT culture. Generally the term \"drag queen\" covers men doing female drag, \"drag king\" covers women doing male drag, and \"faux queen\" covers women doing female drag. Nevertheless, there are drag artists of all genders and sexualities who perform for various reasons. Some drag performers, transvestites, and people in the gay community have embraced the pornographically-derived term \"tranny\" to describe drag queens or people who engage in transvestism or cross-dressing; however, this term is widely considered offensive if applied to transgender people.\n\nIntersex people have genitalia or other physical sex characteristics that do not conform to strict definitions of male or female, but intersex people are not necessarily transgender because they do not necessarily disagree with their assigned sex. Transgender and intersex issues often overlap, however, because they may both challenge rigid definitions of sex and gender.\n\nThe concepts of gender identity and transgender identity differ from that of sexual orientation. Sexual orientation describes an individual's enduring physical, romantic, emotional, or spiritual attraction to another person, while gender identity is one's personal sense of being a man or a woman. Transgender people have more or less the same variety of sexual orientations as cisgender people. In the past, the terms \"homosexual\" and \"heterosexual\" were incorrectly used to label transgender individuals' sexual orientation based on their birth sex. Professional literature now uses terms such as \"attracted to men\" (androphilic), \"attracted to women\" (gynephilic), \"attracted to both\" (bisexual) or \"attracted to neither\" (asexual) to describe a person's sexual orientation without reference to their gender identity. Therapists are coming to understand the necessity of using terms with respect to their clients' gender identities and preferences. For example, a person who is assigned male at birth, transitions to female, and is attracted to men would be identified as heterosexual.\n\nDespite the distinction between sexual orientation and gender, throughout history the gay, lesbian, and bisexual subculture was often the only place where gender-variant people were socially accepted in the gender role they felt they belonged to; especially during the time when legal or medical transitioning was almost impossible. This acceptance has had a complex history. Like the wider world, the gay community in Western societies did not generally distinguish between sex and gender identity until the 1970s, and often perceived gender-variant people more as homosexuals who behaved in a gender-variant way than as gender-variant people in their own right. Today, members of the transgender community often continue to struggle to remain part of the same movement as lesbian, gay, and bisexual people and to be included in rights protections. In addition, the role of the transgender community in the history of LGBT rights is often overlooked, as shown in Transforming History.\n\nIn 2015, the National Center for Transgender Equality conducted a National Transgender Discrimination Survey. Of the 27,715 transgender and non-binary people who took the survey, 21% said the term \"queer\" best described their sexual orientation, 18% said \"pansexual\", 16% said \"gay\", \"lesbian\", or \"same-gender-loving\", 15% said \"straight\", 14% said \"bisexual\", and 10% said \"asexual\".\n\nMost mental health professionals recommend therapy for internal conflicts about gender identity or discomfort in an assigned gender role, especially if one desires to transition. People who experience discord between their gender and the expectations of others or whose gender identity conflicts with their body may benefit by talking through their feelings in depth; however, research on gender identity with regard to psychology, and scientific understanding of the phenomenon and its related issues, is relatively new. The terms \"transsexualism\", \"dual-role transvestism\", \"gender identity disorder in adolescents or adults,\" and \"gender identity disorder not otherwise specified\" are listed as such in the International Statistical Classification of Diseases (ICD) by the WHO or the American \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) under codes F64.0, F64.1, 302.85, and 302.6 respectively.\n\nThe validity of the diagnosis and its presence in the forthcoming ICD-11 is debated. France removed gender identity disorder as a diagnosis by decree in 2010, but according to French trans rights organizations, beyond the impact of the announcement itself, nothing changed. In 2017, the Danish parliament abolished the F64 Gender identity disorders. The \"DSM-5\" refers to the topic as \"gender dysphoria\" while reinforcing the idea that being transgender is not considered a mental illness.\n\nTransgender people may meet the criteria for a diagnosis of gender identity disorder (GID) \"only if [being transgender] causes distress or disability.\" This distress is referred to as \"gender dysphoria\" and may manifest as depression or inability to work and form healthy relationships with others. This diagnosis is often misinterpreted as implying that transgender people suffer from GID; this misinterpretation has greatly confused transgender people and those who seek to either criticize or affirm them. Transgender people who are comfortable with their gender and whose gender is not directly causing inner frustration or impairing their functioning do not suffer from GID. Moreover, GID is not necessarily permanent and is often resolved through therapy or transitioning. Feeling oppressed by the negative attitudes and behaviors of such others as legal entities does not indicate GID. GID does not imply an opinion of immorality; the psychological establishment holds that people with any kind of mental or emotional problem should not receive stigma. The solution for GID is whatever will alleviate suffering and restore functionality; this solution often, but not always, consists of undergoing a gender transition.\n\nClinical training lacks relevant information needed in order to adequately help transgender clients, which results in a large number of practitioners who are not prepared to sufficiently work with this population of individuals. Many mental healthcare providers know little about transgender issues. Those who seek help from these professionals often educate the professional without receiving help. Many therapists who profess to know about transgender issues believe that transitioning from one sex to anotherthe standard transsexual modelis the best or only solution. This solution usually is good for transsexual people but is not the solution for other transgender people, particularly genderqueer people who lack an exclusively male or female identity. Instead, therapists can support their clients in whatever steps they choose to take to transition or can support their decision not to transition while also addressing their clients' sense of congruence between gender identity and appearance.\n\nAcknowledgment of the lack of clinical training has increased; however, research on the specific problems faced by the transgender community in mental health has focused on diagnosis and clinicians' experiences instead of transgender clients' experiences. Therapy was not always sought by transgender people due to mental health needs. Prior to the seventh version of the Standards of Care (SOC), an individual had to be diagnosed with gender identity disorder in order to proceed with hormone treatments or sexual reassignment surgery. The new version decreased the focus on diagnosis and instead emphasized the importance of flexibility in order to meet the diverse health care needs of transsexual, transgender, and all gender-nonconforming people.\n\nThe reasons for seeking mental health services vary according to the individual. A transgender person seeking treatment does not necessarily mean their gender identity is problematic. The emotional strain of dealing with stigma and experiencing transphobia pushes many transgender people to seek treatment to improve their quality of life, as one trans woman reflected: \"Transgendered individuals are going to come to a therapist and most of their issues have nothing to do, specifically, with being transgendered. It has to do because they've had to hide, they've had to lie, and they've felt all of this guilt and shame, unfortunately usually for years!\" Many transgender people also seek mental health treatment for depression and anxiety caused by the stigma attached to being transgender, and some transgender people have stressed the importance of acknowledging their gender identity with a therapist in order to discuss other quality-of-life issues. Others regret having undergone the procedure and wish to detransition.\n\nProblems still remain surrounding misinformation about transgender issues that hurt transgender people's mental health experiences. One trans man who was enrolled as a student in a psychology graduate program highlighted the main concerns with modern clinical training: \"Most people probably are familiar with the term transgender, but maybe that's it. I don’t think I've had any formal training just going through [clinical] programs . . . I don’t think most [therapists] know. Most therapists—Master's degree, PhD level—they've had . . . one diversity class on GLBT issues. One class out of the huge diversity training. One class. And it was probably mostly about gay lifestyle.\" Many health insurance policies do not cover treatment associated with gender transition, and numerous people are under- or uninsured, which raises concerns about the insufficient training most therapists receive prior to working with transgender clients, potentially increasing financial strain on clients without providing the treatment they need. Many clinicians who work with transgender clients only receive mediocre training on gender identity, but introductory training on interacting with transgender people has recently been made available to health care professionals to help remove barriers and increase the level of service for the transgender population.\n\nThe issues around psychological classifications and associated stigma (whether based in paraphilia or not) of cross-dressers, transsexual men and women (and lesbian and gay children, who may resemble trans children early in life) have become more complex since CAMH (Centre for Addiction and Mental Health) colleagues Kenneth Zucker and Ray Blanchard were announced to be serving on the DSM-V's Sexual and Gender Identity Disorders Work Group. CAMH aims to \"cure\" transgender people of their \"disorder\", especially in children. Within the trans community, this intention has mostly produced shock and outrage with attempts to organize other responses. In February 2010, France became the first country in the world to remove transgender identity from the list of mental diseases.\n\nA 2011 study carried out by the Williams Institute (a UCLA think tank) found that 41% of transgender people had attempted suicide, with the rate being higher among people who experienced discrimination in access to housing or healthcare, harassment, physical or sexual assault, or rejection by family.\n\nMedical and surgical procedures exist for transsexual and some transgender people, though most categories of transgender people as described above are not known for seeking the following treatments. Hormone replacement therapy for trans men induces beard growth and masculinizes skin, hair, voice, and fat distribution. Hormone replacement therapy for trans women feminizes fat distribution and breasts. Laser hair removal or electrolysis removes excess hair for trans women. Surgical procedures for trans women feminize the voice, skin, face, adam's apple, breasts, waist, buttocks, and genitals. Surgical procedures for trans men masculinize the chest and genitals and remove the womb, ovaries, and fallopian tubes. The acronyms \"GRS\" and \"SRS\" refer to genital surgery. The term \"sex reassignment therapy\" (SRT) is used as an umbrella term for physical procedures required for transition. Use of the term \"sex change\" has been criticized for its emphasis on surgery, and the term \"transition\" is preferred. Availability of these procedures depends on degree of gender dysphoria, presence or absence of gender identity disorder, and standards of care in the relevant jurisdiction.\n\nTrans men who have not had a hysterectomy and who take testosterone are at increased risk for endometrial cancer because androstenedione, which is made from testosterone in the body, can be converted into estrogen, and external estrogen is a risk factor for endometrial cancer.\n\nLegal procedures exist in some jurisdictions which allow individuals to change their legal gender or name to reflect their gender identity. Requirements for these procedures vary from an explicit formal diagnosis of transsexualism, to a diagnosis of gender identity disorder, to a letter from a physician that attests the individual's gender transition or having established a different gender role. In 1994, the DSM IV entry was changed from \"Transsexual\" to \"Gender Identity Disorder\". In many places, transgender people are not legally protected from discrimination in the workplace or in public accommodations. A report released in February 2011 found that 90% of transgender people faced discrimination at work and were unemployed at double the rate of the general population, and over half had been harassed or turned away when attempting to access public services. Members of the transgender community also encounter high levels of discrimination in health care.\n\n36 countries in Europe require a mental health diagnosis for legal gender recognition and 20 countries still require sterilisation. In April 2017, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that requiring sterilisation for legal gender recognition violates human rights. All Council of Europe Member States must bring their legislation and practice into line with this new legal principle.\n\nSince 2014 it has been possible for adults without the requirement of a psychiatric evaluation, medical or surgical treatment, divorce or castration, to after a six-month ‘reflection period’ have their social security number changed and legally change gender. However, a person must still bear a gender equivalent or neutral name and may be required to a name change.\n\nIn November 2017, the Federal Constitutional Court ruled that the civil status law must allow a third gender option. Thus officially recognising \"third sex\" meaning that birth certificates will not have blank gender entries for intersex people. The ruling came after an intersex person, who is neither a man nor woman according to chromosomal analysis, brought a legal challenge after attempting to change their registered sex to \"inter\" or \"divers\". The legislature has until December 31, 2018 to create the new regulation.\n\nJurisdiction over legal classification of sex in Canada is assigned to the provinces and territories. This includes legal change of gender classification. On June 19, 2017 Bill C-16, after having passed the legislative process in the House of Commons of Canada and the Senate of Canada, became law upon receiving Royal Assent which put it into immediate force. The law updated the Canadian Human Rights Act and the Criminal Code to include \"gender identity and gender expression\" as protected grounds from discrimination, hate publications and advocating genocide. The bill also added \"gender identity and expression\" to the list of aggravating factors in sentencing, where the accused commits a criminal offence against an individual because of those personal characteristics. Similar transgender laws also exist in all the provinces and territories.\n\nIn the United States, a federal bill to protect workers from discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, the Employment Non-Discrimination Act, has stalled and failed several times over the past two decades. Individual states and cities have begun passing their own non-discrimination ordinances. In New York, for example, Governor David Paterson signed into law New York's first statute to include transgender protections in September 2010.\n\nNicole Maines, a trans girl, took a case to Maine's Supreme Court in June, 2013. She argued that being denied access to her high school's women's restroom was a violation of Maine's Human Rights Act; one state judge has disagreed with her, but Maines won her lawsuit against the Orono school district in January 2014 before the Maine Supreme Judicial Court. On May 14, 2016, the United States Department of Education and Department of Justice issued guidance directing public schools to allow transgender students to use bathrooms that match their gender identities.\n\nOn June 30, 2016, the United States Department of Defense removed the ban that prohibited transgender people from openly serving in the US military. On July 27, 2017, President Donald Trump tweeted that transgender Americans will not be allowed to serve \"in any capacity\" in the United States Armed Forces. Later that day, Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman Joseph Dunford announced, \"there will be no modifications to the current policy until the president’s direction has been received by the secretary of defense and the secretary has issued implementation guidance.\"\n\nIn April 2014, the Supreme Court of India declared transgender to be a 'third gender' in Indian law. The transgender community in India (made up of Hijras and others) has a long history in India and in Hindu mythology. Justice KS Radhakrishnan noted in his decision that, \"Seldom, our society realizes or cares to realize the trauma, agony and pain which the members of Transgender community undergo, nor appreciates the innate feelings of the members of the Transgender community, especially of those whose mind and body disown their biological sex\", adding:\n\nHijras/transgender persons face huge discrimination in access to public spaces like restaurants, cinemas, shops, malls etc. Further, access to public toilets is also a serious problem they face quite often. Since there are no separate toilet facilities for Hijras/transgender persons, they have to use male toilets where they are prone to sexual assault and harassment. Discrimination on the ground of sexual orientation or gender identity, therefore, impairs equality before law and equal protection of law and violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church has been involved in the outreach to LGBT community for several years and continues doing so through Franciscan urban outreach centers, namely, the \"Open Hearts\" outreach in Hartford, CT\n\nSome feminists and feminist groups are supportive of transgender people. Others are not. Though second-wave feminism argued for the sex and gender distinction, some feminists believed there was a conflict between transgender identity and the feminist cause; e.g., they believed that male-to-female transition abandoned or devalued female identity and that transgender people embraced traditional gender roles and stereotypes. Many transgender feminists, however, view themselves as contributing to feminism by questioning and subverting gender norms. Third-wave and contemporary feminism are generally more supportive of transgender people.\n\nA study of Swedes estimated a ratio of 1.4:1 trans women to trans men for those requesting sex reassignment surgery and a ratio of 1:1 for those who proceeded.\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, 1.5 million transgender people live in the European Union.\n\nOne effort to quantify the population gave a \"rough estimate\" that 0.3 percent of adults in the US are transgender, overlapping to an unknown degree with the estimated 3.5 percent of US adults (1-in-30) who identify as LGBT. More recent studies released in 2016 estimate the proportion of Americans who identify as transgender at 0.5 to 0.6%. This would put the total number of transgender Americans at approximately 1.4 million adults ().\n\nIn Latin American cultures, a travesti is a person who has been assigned male at birth and who has a feminine, transfeminine, or \"femme\" gender identity. Travestis generally undergo hormonal treatment, use female gender expression including new names and pronouns from the masculine ones they were given when assigned a sex, and might use breast implants, but they are not offered or do not desire sex-reassignment surgery. Travesti might be regarded as a gender in itself (a \"third gender\"), a mix between man and woman (\"intergender/androgynes\"), or the presence of both masculine and feminine identities in a single person (\"bigender\"). They are framed as something entirely separate from transgender women, who possess the same gender identity of people assigned female at birth.\n\nOther transgender identities are becoming more widely known, as a result of contact with other cultures of the Western world. These newer identities, sometimes known under the umbrella use of the term \"genderqueer\", along with the older \"travesti\" term, are known as non-binary and go along with binary transgender identities (those traditionally diagnosed under the now obsolete label of \"transsexualism\") under the single umbrella of \"transgender\", but are distinguished from cross-dressers and drag queens and kings, that are held as nonconforming gender expressions rather than transgender gender identities when a distinction is made.\n\nDeviating from the societal standards for sexual behavior, sexual orientation/identity, gender identity, and gender expression have a single umbrella term that is known as \"sexodiverso\" or \"sexodiversa\" in both Spanish and Portuguese, with its most approximate translation to English being \"queer\".\n\nIn Thailand and Laos, the term kathoey is used to refer to male-to-female transgender people and effeminate gay men. The cultures of the Indian subcontinent include a third gender, referred to as hijra in Hindi. Transgender people have also been documented in Iran, Japan, Nepal, Indonesia, Vietnam, South Korea, Singapore, and the greater Chinese region, including Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China.\n\nIn India, the Supreme Court on April 15, 2014, recognized a third gender that is neither male nor female, stating \"Recognition of transgenders as a third gender is not a social or medical issue but a human rights issue.\"\n\nOn January 5, 2015, Reuters stated that the first transgender mayor was elected in central India.\n\nIn what is now the United States and Canada, many Native American and First Nations peoples recognized the existence of more than two genders, such as the Zuñi male-bodied Ła'mana, the Lakota male-bodied winkte, and the Mohave male-bodied alyhaa and female-bodied hwamee. Such people were previously referred to as \"berdache\" but are now referred to as Two-Spirit, and their spouses would not necessarily have been regarded as gender-different. In Mexico, the Zapotec culture includes a third gender in the form of the Muxe.\n\nIn early Medina, gender-variant male-to-female Islamic people were acknowledged in the form of the Mukhannathun. In Ancient Rome, the Gallae were castrated followers of the Phrygian goddess Cybele and can be regarded as transgender in today's terms.\n\nAmong the ancient Middle Eastern Akkadian people, a \"salzikrum\" was a person who appeared biologically female but had distinct male traits. \"Salzikrum\" is a compound word meaning \"male daughter.\" According to the Code of Hammurabi, \"salzikrūm\" had inheritance rights like that of priestesses; they inherited from their fathers, unlike regular daughters. A \"salzikrum's\" father could also stipulate that she inherit a certain amount.\n\nMahu is a traditional status in Polynesian cultures. Also, in Fa'asamoa traditions, the Samoan culture allows a specific role for male to female transgender individuals as Fa'afafine.\n\nTransgender people vary greatly in choosing when, whether, and how to disclose their transgender status to family, close friends, and others. The prevalence of discrimination and violence (transgender people are 28% more likely to be victims of violence) against transgender persons can make coming out a risky decision. Fear of retaliatory behavior, such as being removed from the parental home while underage, is a cause for transgender people to not come out to their families until they have reached adulthood. Parental confusion and lack of acceptance of a transgender child may result in parents treating a newly revealed gender identity as a \"phase\" or making efforts to change their children back to \"normal\" by utilizing mental health services to alter the child's gender identity.\n\nThe internet can play a significant role in the coming out process for transgender people. Some come out in an online identity first, providing an opportunity to go through experiences virtually and safely before risking social sanctions in the real world.\n\nAs more transgender people are represented and included within the realm of mass culture, the stigma that is associated with being transgender can influence the decisions, ideas, and thoughts based upon it. Media representation, culture industry, and social marginalization all hint at popular culture standards and the applicability and significance to mass culture as well. These terms play an important role in the formation of notions for those who have little recognition or knowledge of transgender people. Media depictions represent only a minuscule spectrum of the transgender group, which essentially conveys that those that are shown are the only interpretations and ideas society has of them.\n\nHowever, in 2014, the United States reached a \"transgender tipping point\", according to \"Time\". At this time, the media visibility of transgender people reached a level higher than seen before. Since then, the number of transgender portrayals across TV platforms has stayed elevated. Research has found that viewing multiple transgender TV characters and stories improves viewers' attitudes toward transgender people and related policies.\n\nInternational Transgender Day of Visibility is an annual holiday occurring on March 31 dedicated to celebrating transgender people and raising awareness of discrimination faced by transgender people worldwide. The holiday was founded by Michigan-based transgender activist Rachel Crandall in 2009 as a reaction to the lack of LGBT holidays celebrating transgender people, citing the frustration that the only well-known transgender-centered holiday was the Transgender Day of Remembrance which mourned the loss of transgender people to hate crimes, but did not acknowledge and celebrate living members of the transgender community.\n\nTransgender Awareness Week, typically observed the second week of November, is a one-week celebration leading up to Transgender Day of Remembrance. The purpose of Transgender Awareness Week is to educate about transgender and gender non-conforming people and the issues associated with their transition or identity.\n\nTransgender Day of Remembrance (TDOR) is held every year on November 20 in honor of Rita Hester, who was killed on November 28, 1998, in an anti-transgender hate crime. TDOR serves a number of purposes:\n\nTrans March describes annual marches, protests or gatherings that take place around the world, often taking place during the time of the local pride week. These events are frequently organized by transgender communities to build community, address human rights struggles, and create visibility.\n\nA common symbol for the transgender community is the Transgender Pride flag, which was designed by the American transgender woman Monica Helms in 1999, and was first shown at a pride parade in Phoenix, Arizona, United States in 2000.\n\nThe flag consists of five horizontal stripes, two light blue, two pink, with a white stripe in the center.\n\nHelms describes the meaning of the flag as follows:\n\nThe light blue is the traditional color for baby boys, pink is for girls, and the white in the middle is for \"those who are transitioning, those who feel they have a neutral gender or no gender\", and those who are intersex. The pattern is such that \"no matter which way you fly it, it will always be correct. This symbolizes us trying to find correctness in our own lives.\"\n\nOther transgender symbols include the butterfly (symbolizing transformation or metamorphosis), and a pink/light blue yin and yang symbol.\n\nSeveral gender symbols have been used to represent transgender people, including ⚥ and ⚧.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57213603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57213603", "title": "US public opinion on the North American Free Trade Agreement", "text": "US public opinion on the North American Free Trade Agreement\n\nAfter it officially went into effect on January 1, 1994, U.S. public opinion on the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) has varied over time.\n\nEarly public opinion on NAFTA was ambivalent, where a plurality of polled Americans was either unsure about NAFTA or did not have an opinion about NAFTA. As public opinion on NAFTA evolved, there were intermittent shifts in polls and surveys between support and opposition for NAFTA. However, support or opposition to NAFTA was frequently out of a plurality, as there was regularly a significant portion of respondents that were unsure about NAFTA and or did not have a substantial opinion on NAFTA.\n\nNotably, during the 2016 presidential election, Donald Trump became a briefly polarizing force on public opinion about NAFTA, where negative views of NAFTA not only proliferated among Republican voters, but also the general population.\n\nBroadly, present public opinion on NAFTA is positive, with recent surveys finding that a majority of Americans viewing NAFTA as good for the U.S. economy. However, to note, public opinion towards NAFTA greatly fluctuated when survey data was organized into different categories (e.g. political party, level of education).\n\nCurrently, accessible public opinion scholarship on NAFTA is scarce with two studies done in the late 1990s. Each examined two different aspects about public opinion on NAFTA. On one hand, Jeffrey E. Cohen—a professor of political science at Fordham University—observed if NAFTA was a case of how well public opinion was taken into consideration by presidents. On the other hand, Eric M. Uslaner—a professor of Government and Politics at the University of Maryland—College Park—studied whether or not the case of NAFTA demonstrated that shifts in public opinion are in response to major events.\n\nAlthough the proposed trilateral free trade agreement was one of the more hotly contested issues during the 1992 presidential election, early polling data from NBC/the Wall Street Journal demonstrated that an overall plurality of Americans either had no opinion or were unsure about the policy.\n\nFrom the first administration of the NBC-\"Wall Street Journal\" poll on September 12, 1992, 40% were either unsure or did not have an opinion on NAFTA, 27% supported NAFTA, and 34% opposed NAFTA. Likewise, this plurality of ambivalence towards NAFTA persisted until the final administration of the poll on November 14, 1993. On the final poll, the plurality of poll respondents were in favor of NAFTA (36%). The known cause of this shift was due to a televised debate on NAFTA that pitted the then Vice President Albert Gore against Ross Perot. The debate was held on November 9, 1993. In terms of positions, Ross Perot was a staunch opponent of NAFTA, stating that the policy would harm American workers (as the presumption was that American companies would outsource their labor to Mexico as soon as the agreement was put into effect); Albert Gore was in support of NAFTA, stating how beneficial the agreement would be for both the U.S. economy and its trade due to lower trade barriers (e.g. tariffs). As indicated by the positive uptick in support for NAFTA on the last administration of the NBC-\"Wall Street Journal\" poll, Albert Gore was perceived by the public as the winner of the debate, ultimately augmenting public support towards NAFTA.\n\nIn scope, the evolution of public opinion on NAFTA from 1999 to 2015 frequently switched between support and opposition to the policy. Results from a study done by the Program on International Policy Attitudes in the fall of 1999 illustrated that a plurality of Americans (44%) thought that NAFTA was good for the U.S. In contrast, by 2004, a Newsweek Poll indicated that a plurality of Americans (35%) thought that NAFTA was bad for the U.S.\n\nOppositely, within a year or so, an international policy attitudes poll done in June 2005 revealed that 46% of respondents saw NAFTA as a policy that was good for the U.S. Again in spring 2008, opinions shifted negatively, as a Pew Research Center/Council on Foreign Relations survey saw that 48% of respondents thought that NAFTA was bad for the U.S. A Rasmussen Report apportions this particular shift in opinion towards rising oil and food prices, along with other economic factors.\n\nBy April 2015, an NBC-\"Wall Street Journal\" poll found that a plurality of respondents (32%) thought that NAFTA did not have much of an impact on the U.S. and its economy.\n\nDuring the 2016 election, Donald Trump—the Republican candidate for president—promulgated a view that was critical of free trade agreements like NAFTA, citing that such agreements affected the U.S. economy negatively and that these were only beneficial to other countries. In terms of influence on partisan voters, a recent study done by researchers at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health noted how registered Republican voters positively received Trump's view, with 68% of those voters opining that free trade agreements like NAFTA were \"a bad thing\" for the United States. As a result, a Bloomberg National Poll that was conducted shortly after the inauguration of Donald Trump into office (from February 19 to February 22 of 2016) showed that proportionally, 29% of respondents thought that NAFTA was good for the U.S. economy, 44% of respondents thought that NAFTA was bad for the U.S. economy, and 27% of respondents were unsure. Later, when the same poll was conducted in 2017, the results demonstrated a positive shift in views on NAFTA, whereas 41% thought that NAFTA was good for the economy, 37% thought that NAFTA was bad for the economy, and 22% were unsure.\n\nAccording to a recent survey conducted by the Pew Research Center, when prompted on whether or not NAFTA was good or bad for the U.S., 56% of all respondents viewed NAFTA as good for the U.S. Similar results were found in a survey run by the Chicago Council of Global Affairs, where 53% of respondents thought that NAFTA was good for the U.S. (and its economy in particular). Categorically, respondents with greater education had more pro-NAFTA views. Overwhelmingly, 70% of postgraduates viewed NAFTA as good for the U.S. In contrast, 57% of college graduates, 52% with some college, and 54% with a high school education or less held the same view. However, along ideological (i.e. partisan) lines, conservative respondents were more likely to hold unfavorable views of NAFTA whereas liberal respondents were more likely to hold favorable views of NAFTA. Numerically, a survey done by the Chicago Council on Global Affairs found that 71% of Democrats had a positive view on NAFTA and that 34% of Republicans had a positive view on NAFTA. In the Pew Research Center's survey, 74% of respondents who identified as \"liberals\" thought that NAFTA was good and that 31% of respondents who identified as \"conservatives\" had the same view as the liberals.\n\nAs of now, there are two accessible studies about public opinion on NAFTA. One study by Jeffery E. Cohen investigated whether or not NAFTA was a case of presidential responsiveness to public opinion. The other study by Eric M. Uslaner inquired into whether or not the case of NAFTA was representative of how public opinion may shift in response to major events. Fundamentally, at its core, both studies attempt to validate whether or not—with different methods of examination—public opinion on NAFTA could be validated as a comparable case study. Both studies used data from early polls done by NBC/the Wall Street Journal from 1992 to 1993 to determine if their original hypothesis correlated with the evidence. However, in the end, both scholars were unable to support their hypotheses as both found different results that were contrary to their original hypotheses. Jeffery E. Cohen suggested that NAFTA is not a case of presidential responsiveness to public opinion as \"too many people had no opinion, and the rest (of the polling categories) were almost evenly divided.\" Likewise, Eric M. Uslaner suggested that \"people made up their minds on NAFTA on the basis of arguments about trade, not about their own self-interest.\"\n"}
{"id": "21455789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21455789", "title": "Watkins Books", "text": "Watkins Books\n\nWatkins Books is London's oldest esoteric bookshop specializing in esotericism, mysticism, occultism, oriental religion and contemporary spirituality.\nThe book store was established by John M. Watkins, a friend of Madame Blavatsky, in 1897 at 26 Charing Cross. John Watkins had already been selling books via a catalogue which he began publishing in March 1893. The first biography of Aleister Crowley recounts a story of Crowley making all of the books in Watkins magically disappear and reappear.\n\nGeoffrey Watkins (1896–1981) owned and managed the store after his father. He was also an author and publisher, with notable books including first publishing Carl Gustav Jung's 1925 edition of \"Septem Sermones ad Mortuos\".\n\nIn 1901, Watkins Books moved to 21 Cecil Court where it has been continuously trading ever since. It publishes a magazine called the \"Watkins' Mind Body Spirit magazine\", which has featured leading authors from mind-body-spirit and esoteric fields. Watkins Books has been owned by Etan Ilfeld since March 2010. Since then, a new website has been launched, and the store regularly hosts book launches and signings. Additionally, the Watkins website has integrated a spiritual map of London that everyone is invited to contribute to. Watkins Books has also published a free Mind Body Spirit app that is available on the iPhone/iPad and Android devices. \n\nWatkins makes an annual list of \"the 100 Most Spiritually Influential Living People,\" which is published online and in the spring issue of their magazine. The three main factors used to compile the list are that the person has to be alive, the person has to have made a unique and spiritual contribution on a global scale, and the person is frequently googled, appears in Nielsen Data and is actively talked about on the Internet.\n"}
{"id": "28773552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28773552", "title": "William Scott-Elliot", "text": "William Scott-Elliot\n\nWilliam Scott-Elliot (sometimes incorrectly spelled Scott-Elliott) (1849-1919) was a theosophist who elaborated Helena Blavatsky's concept of root races in several publications, most notably \"The Story of Atlantis\" (1896) and \"The Lost Lemuria\" (1904), later combined in 1925 into a single volume called \"The Story of Atlantis and the Lost Lemuria\". In 1893 he married Matilda (Maude) Louise Travers (1859-1929), daughter of Dr Robert Boyle Travers F.R.C.S., of Farsid Lodge, Rostellan, County Cork, Ireland.\n\nScott-Elliot was an East India Merchant and amateur anthropologist. An early member of the London Lodge of the Theosophical society, in 1893 he wrote \"The Evolution of Humanity\", issued as part of the Transactions of the London Lodge (issue 17). \n\nScott-Elliot came into contact with theosophist Charles Webster Leadbeater who said he received knowledge about ancient Atlantis and Lemuria from the Theosophical Masters by \"astral clairvoyance.\" Leadbeater transmitted his clairvoyant findings to Scott-Elliot, who undertook scholarly research to back them up. Despite Leadbeater's contributions, Scott-Elliot was listed as the sole author of the resulting book \"The Story of Atlantis\", which was published with a preface by Alfred Percy Sinnett. \n\nIn 1899 he was awarded the T. Subba Row Medal for his contributions to \"esoteric science and philosophy\". In 1904 he added detail on Lemuria in \"The Lost Lemuria\", attempting to use contemporary scientific evidence to back up Leadbeater's claims.\n\nLeadbeater and Scott-Elliot provided much more detail than Blavatsky on the lives of the supposed Atlantean and Lemurian root races. Scott-Elliot located Lemuria in the Pacific ocean, claiming that it was a gigantic landmass that eventually sank, leaving only small islands. The Lemurians were around fifteen feet tall, with brown skins and flat faces, no foreheads and prominent jaws. They could see sideways like birds, and could walk backwards and forwards with equal ease. They reproduced with eggs, but interbred with animals to produce ape-like human ancestors. \n\nAfter the demise of Lemuria, new races emerged on Atlantis from the surviving ape-like creatures. This led to the Atlantean races, beginning with the black skinned \"Rmoahal\" and leading to the \"copper coloured\" Tlavatli, who were ancestor-worshippers, and then the \"Toltecs\", who had advanced technology including \"airships\". The Toltecs were succeeded by \"First Turanians\" and then \"Original Semites\". These later produced further sub-races, the Akkadians and Mongolians. A group of Akkadians migrated to Britain 100,000 years ago, where they built Stonehenge. The crudity of the design in contrast to Atlantean architecture is explained by the fact that \"the rude simplicity of Stonehenge was intended as a protest against the extravagant ornament and over-decoration of the existing temples in Atlantis, where the debased worship of their own images was being carried on by the inhabitants.\"\n\nScott-Elliot also claimed that Atlantis split into two linked islands, one called Daitya, and the other Ruta. Eventually only a remnant of Ruta remained, called Poseidonis, before that too disappeared. \n\nScott-Elliot's ideas were mentioned by Rudolf Steiner in the essays later published as \"Atlantis and Lemuria\" (1904).\n\n"}
{"id": "18460743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18460743", "title": "Zidane y va marquer", "text": "Zidane y va marquer\n\n\"Zidane y va marquer\" is a song recorded by the French TV and radio host Sébastien Cauet and broadcast on radio from May 2006. Based on the music of Salif Keita and Martin Solveig's hit single \"Madân\", this parody refers to Zinedine Zidane and other players of the French football team competing in the 2006 FIFA World Cup.\n\nFrom May 2006, the song featured on the radio program hosted by Cauet every morning. The tone is humorous and refers to Zidane as a providential savior. The lyrics also mentioned the non-selection of Jérôme Rothen and Nicolas Anelka and the unexpected selection of Pascal Chimbonda. In the original version, Zidane was injured leaving the place to Claude Makélélé, but after the match France - China, the lyrics were changed to reflect Djibril Cissé's real life injury.\n\nThe song gained in popularity with the victories of the France national football team at the World Cup, being sung in the streets during the after games celebrations. Thereafter, Cauet decided to record the song as a single, which was published by Universal Music. The refrain featured in advertising jingles on TF1 before matches. The lyrics were changed in order to allow the release of the song (for example, the line mentioning Sony's PlayStation Portable was deleted).\n\nThe music video was shot only a few days before the final match of the World Cup: devoted to karaoke, it shows Cauet's entire team of hosts singing the song in the streets. Even though France didn't win, Zidane, after having rammed his head into Marco Materazzi's chest and his expulsion, revived the song. Therefore, \"Zidane y va marquer\" became a hit in France.\n\nThe same day, the group La Plage immediately covered the song re-entitled \"Coup de Boule\" and dealing with the aggression of Zidane. Composed in a few hours and quickly leaked on the Internet, it also became a hit and reached number 1 on the French and Belgian Singles Charts.\n\nIn 2007, Les Enfoirés recorded a medley of summer hits, including \"Zidane y va marquer\", performed by Jean-Baptiste Maunier and Pierre Palmade and available on the 2007 album \"La Caravane des Enfoirés\".\n\nAt the Rugby World Cup of 2007, Cauet adapted and sang the song re-entitled \"Chabal va les manger\" by modifying the lyrics.\n\nIn order of mention:\n\n\n\n\n"}
