{"id": "56839439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56839439", "title": "AJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam", "text": "AJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam\n\nAJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam case, allegedly against Bhupinder Singh Hooda currently in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, is under investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED). This case pertains to Hooda's alleged role for misusing his position as then Chief Minister of Haryana to cause wrongful gains to the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) and corresponding loss to the Government of Haryana, by illegally allotting a government plot of land worth several crores rupees (billions) to AJL for INR 59 lakh (5.9 million). Then Chief Minister, Hooda, was also the chairman of HUDA, a government entity which re-allotted the plot to AJL in 2005 in violations of rules and against the advise of the HUDA officials. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's BJP government of Haryana transferred the case to CBI, and CBI filed the FIR in April 2016. CBI booked Hooda for criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, cheating and misuse of official position by public servants. AJL, which also owns National Herald, is controlled by the Indian National Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi among others.\n\nAJL was not legally entitled for the allotment. Plot was originally allotted to AJL in 1982. As per the rules, ownership was repossessed by the government in 1992 due to non-construction by AJL within the mandatory period. AJL's applications to have the plot re-allotted were dismissed in 1995 and again in 1996. AJL waited for a favorable entity to come to power for getting the re-allotment. When Hooda became Chief Minister in 2005, he illegally re-allotment the plot to the AJL.\n\nThere are 6 CBI cases and several other vigilance department investigations against Hooda underway. Central Bureau of Investigation is investigating several scams, mostly related to illegal land grab, that took place during his rule in Haryana. These investigations include the Gurugram-Manesar IMT land scam, Robert Vadra DLF land grab scam, Gurugram Rajiv Gandhi Trust land grab scam, Sonepat-Kharkhoda IMT land scam case, Garhi Sampla Uddar Gagan land scam, Panchkula-HUDA Industrial plots allotment scam, Haryana Forestry scam case and Haryana Raxil drug purchase scam. He has been already chargesheeted in the Manesar-Gurugram land scam, while other cases are still under investigation (c. March 2018).\n\nIn this AJL-National Herald Panchkula land grab scam, the Congress government gave the National Herald 3,500 square meters of plot number C-17 in Sector 6 of Panchkula in Haryana in 1982 [during Bhajan Lal's Indian National Congress rule] to publish a newspaper, but for ten years, there was no newspaper published from here. Hence, as per the rules the land should have been returned to the government, but the ownership was illegally transferred to AJL/National Herald by Hooda government in 2013. This case and National Herald's possession of INR 2000 crores worth land are being currently investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (c. December 2017). Against the advise of HUDA officials to re-advertise the plot for auction and to honor the legal precedence/remembrance (prior rejections of AJL's application for the re-allotment), Hooda re-allotted it to AJL in 2005 at the original 1982 rates with interest.\n\nFIR, filed on the complaint of Haryana State Vigilance Bureau's deputy superintendent, Ashok Kumar, has following sections of the Indian Penal Code: Sections 409, 420 and 120-B. CBI's DSP, R.S. Gunjiyal, was mentioned in FIR the investigating officer (IO) of the case.\n\nCase was initially investigated by the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau, then taken over by the ED and CBI.\n\nCBI's FIR mentions then chairman of HUDA, which is Bhupinder Singh Hooda. ED has also questioned both Hooda and Motilal Vora who were confronted with the ceased documents in this case.\n\nOn 1 December 2018, CBI filed the chargesheet against Hooda, Moti Lal Vohra and AJL Ltd for the allotment of 3360 sqm plot in Sector 6 in 2005 in violation of the rules. As per the chargesheet, the plot was originally allotted in 1982, but allotment automatically lapsed as no construction was carried out within the prescribed ten years, resulting in HUDA (now called HSVP) retaking the ownership of the plot in 1992. Chargesheet states that Bhupinder Singh Hooda, who was then chairman of HUDA and chief minister of Haryana, re-allotted the plot in 2005 at 1982 price with interest by violating the rules, resulting in loss of INR 620,000 to the govt of Haryana.\n\nA separate AJL owned National Herald scam case against Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi is going on in the Supreme court, filed by Subramanian Swamy, for the alleged criminal misappropriation by both Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in which the courts have determined that a prima face case has been established. Associated Journals Limited is an unlisted public company limited by shares, ownership of which was transferred to Young India in 2011. AJL published the \"National Herald\" newspaper and also owns real estate worth at in various cities including New Delhi, Lucknow, Bhopal, Mumbai, Indore, Patna and Panchkula.\n"}
{"id": "3798183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3798183", "title": "Acheson–Lilienthal Report", "text": "Acheson–Lilienthal Report\n\nThe Report on the International Control of Atomic Energy was written by a committee chaired by Dean Acheson and David Lilienthal in 1946 and is generally known as the Acheson–Lilienthal Report or Plan. The report was an important American document that appeared just before the start of the early Cold War. It proposed the international control of nuclear weapons and the avoidance of future nuclear warfare. As American distrust of Stalin grew, the Report was simply ignored. A version was vetoed by the USSR at the UN.\n\nTwo schools of thought concerning nuclear weapons emerged in the United States immediately after the end of World War II. One school, which had Secretary of War Henry Stimson as its chief proponent, believed that the apparent secrets of the atomic bomb were scientific in nature, and could not be monopolised forever. They further felt that to hold the bomb ostentatiously in reserve, whilst negotiating with the Soviet Union not to develop one, would simply drive Russia into developing their own weapon to restore the balance of power.\n\nThe other school included men like Secretary of State James F. Byrnes, who felt that the US monopoly on atomic weapons had been honestly earned, and should not be surrendered. In their view, the Soviet Union understood only power, and could only be met with nuclear weapons.\n\nPresident Harry S. Truman was divided between the two positions. He was distrustful of the Soviet Union, but still did not want to lead the world down a path to destruction. He continued to solicit views from both sides. Stimson resigned in September 1945, and thereafter the task of promoting his approach fell primarily on Under Secretary of State and later Secretary of State Dean Acheson.\n\nA proposal to pass the responsibility for the control of atomic energy to a United Nations Atomic Energy Commission was endorsed by both the USA and the Soviets in 1945. They had the forum, but the United States had not yet articulated a policy that it wished the new commission to adopt. To resolve the problem, Acheson was appointed to head a committee to set forth United States policy on atomic energy.\n\nThe other members of the committee were scientists James Conant and Vannevar Bush, the director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development, which controlled the Manhattan Project, and John McCloy, and General Leslie R. Groves, who had been the military officer in charge of the Manhattan Project. Acheson decided that the committee needed technical advice, so he appointed a board of consultants with David Lilienthal, the well-regarded chairman of the Tennessee Valley Authority, as chairman. He also appointed J. Robert Oppenheimer, scientific leader of the Manhattan Project, who provided influential advice. Oppenheimer’s contribution lay in an idea to police the production of atomic weapons from monitoring source mines for uranium.\n\nOn March 16, 1946, the committee's report was presented to the State Department, which released it to the public on March 28. The \"Report on the International Control of Atomic Energy\" soon became known as the \"Acheson–Lilienthal Report\". The primary message of the report was that control of atomic energy through inspections and policing operations was unlikely to succeed. Instead, the report proposed that all fissile material be owned by an international agency to be called the Atomic Development Authority, which would release small amounts to individual nations for the development of peaceful uses of atomic energy.\n\nIn the first years of the atomic era, it was generally believed that the great obstacle facing a would-be developer of an atomic bomb was the acquisition of sufficient fissile material. In response, the Acheson–Lilienthal Report proposed that the complete path from the uranium and thorium mines to post production be under international ownership. \n\nIn addition, the report proposed that the United States abandon its monopoly on atomic weapons, revealing what it knew to the Soviet Union, in exchange for a mutual agreement against the development of additional atomic bombs. This was to prove too controversial. Although Truman accepted the report in general, his appointment of financier Bernard Baruch to carry the proposal forward in the United Nations led to demands for punishment for violations, and that those penalties could not be vetoed by the United Nations Security Council, as well as unrestricted inspections within the USSR, whilst still insisting that the USSR should agree not to develop the bomb. These were modifications that neither Acheson nor Lilienthal accepted. This, combined with U.S. continued insistence on retaining the bomb until they were satisfied with the effectiveness of international control, ultimately led to the plan's rejection by the Soviet Union, to the surprise of no one.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1719265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1719265", "title": "Advocate general", "text": "Advocate general\n\nAn advocate general is a senior officer of the law. In some common law and hybrid jurisdictions the officer performs the function of a legal advisor to the government, analogous to attorneys general in other common law and hybrid jurisdictions. By contrast, in the European Union and some continental European jurisdictions, the officer is a neutral legal advisor to the courts.\n\nIn India, an advocate general is a legal advisor to a state government. The post is created by the Constitution of India and corresponds to that of Attorney General of India at the central-level. The Governor of each state shall appoint a person who is qualified to be appointed judges in high court.\n\nIn Pakistan an advocate general of the Province of the Punjab is a constitutional post and is an authority duly appointed under Article 140 of the Constitution of Islamic Republic of Pakistan. A person who is qualified to be appointed as a Judge of the High Court is appointed as the Advocate General for the province. He is the principal law officer of the Province.\n\nThe Advocate General and his office defends and protects the interest of the provincial government and gives invaluable legal guidance to the provincial government in formulation of its policy and execution of its decision.Advocate-General of the Punjab is also \"Ex Officio\" Chairman of Punjab Bar Council.\n\nThe office of the Advocate General is directly connected with the High Court of the province. Pre-independence (1947) the High Court of judicature for the premises of Punjab and Delhi was established at Lahore and was called the High Court of Judicature at Lahore. After independence of Pakistan, the High Court at Lahore ceased to have jurisdiction over Delhi and the then East Punjab. On 14 August 1947 the High Court (Lahore) Order, 1947, preserved the continuance of the High Court at Lahore with all rights, powers and privileges as hitherto enjoyed and possessed by it before the appointed day. The Governor-General of the Dominion of Pakistan became the substitute of the Crown in matters of appointment etc. of Judges of the Lahore High Court.\n\nThe concept of \"advocate general\" fits less comfortably into a common law system than a civil law system; and England, the archetypal common law jurisdiction, has no such officer, nor is there any equivalent person to address and advise any court.\n\nHowever, England does have an Attorney General, who serves one of the Law Officers of the Crown and whose duty is to advise the Crown and Cabinet on the law. His deputy is the Solicitor General, who serves the same function.\n\nHistorically, the United Kingdom Government was advised on matters of Scots Law by the Lord Advocate but following the Scotland Act 1998 and the establishment of the Scottish Parliament the Lord Advocate became a member of the Scottish Executive.\n\nIt was necessary to create a post to advise the British Government in Westminster. Thus, the new post of Advocate General for Scotland was created. The advocate general's role differs from that formerly held by the Lord Advocate in that they are only charged with advising the UK Government on matters pertaining to Scots law, the Lord Advocate having retained his responsibility as the chief public prosecutor in Scotland and head of the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service on his transfer to the Scottish Executive.\n\nThe position of Advocate General for Northern Ireland was created following the devolution of policing and justice powers to the Northern Ireland Assembly on 12 April 2010. The Attorney General for Northern Ireland reports to the Northern Ireland Executive, and, accordingly, the Advocate General advises the UK Government on matters of Northern Ireland law. The post is held by the Attorney General for England and Wales by virtue of office.\n\nThe position of advocate general is well established in the French, Dutch, and some other continental European legal systems, where higher courts are assisted by these legal officers. They are not advocates representing clients in courts. They are not judges either, although they are full members of the courts. They mainly offer legal advice to judges on the cases being tried. They may also have a prosecution role, depending on countries and on the nature of cases (criminal or civil). \n\nThe position of advocate general (\"avocat général\") already existed in the French legal system before the French Revolution, when they were found in the then higher courts (\"parlements\", \"cours des aides\", etc.) and proposed legal solutions to the judges in cases involving the State, the Church, the general public, communities, or minors. Since the French Revolution, they are found in the Court of Cassation, the Court of Audit, the Courts of Appeal, and the Assize Courts. They have more of a prosecution role than before the French Revolution, especially in the Assize Courts, in which people accused of felonies are tried.\n\nThe Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) has one judge from each Member State, assisted by eleven advocates general whose role is to consider the written and oral submissions to the court in every case that raises a new point of law, and deliver an impartial opinion to the court on the legal solution. Although Advocates General are full members of the court, they do not take part in the court's deliberations, and the Advocate General’s opinion is not binding on the court. Although the court reaches the same solution as the Advocate General more often than not, it cannot usually be stated that the advocate general's opinion has been 'followed' in any given case, because the court may have reached the same conclusion via different legal reasoning. The role of Advocate General is created by Article 19(2) of the Treaty on European Union and Articles 253 and 254 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union.\n\nWhen the Benelux Court of Justice answers requests for a preliminary ruling, it also first considers the advice of an advocate general. the court has three, one from each participating country (Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg) and taken from the procureurs-general of the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "2661273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2661273", "title": "Agrarian Party of Kazakhstan", "text": "Agrarian Party of Kazakhstan\n\nThe Agrarian Party of Kazakhstan (\"Qazaqstan Agrarlyq Parti'i'asy\") is a political party in Kazakhstan. \nAt the last legislative elections, 19 September and 3 October 2004, the party was part of the Agrarian and Industrial Union of Workers Bloc, that won 7.1% of the popular vote and 11 out of 77 seats.\n"}
{"id": "5110833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5110833", "title": "American Woman Suffrage Association", "text": "American Woman Suffrage Association\n\nThe American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA) was a single-issue national organization formed in 1869 in Boston. The AWSA lobbied state governments to enact laws granting or expanding women's right to vote in the United States. Its most prominent leader, Lucy Stone, began publishing a newspaper in 1870 called the \"Woman's Journal\". Designed as the voice of the AWSA, it eventually became a voice of the women's movement as a whole. \n\nIn 1890, the AWSA merged with a rival organization, the National Woman Suffrage Association. The new organization, called the National American Woman Suffrage Association, was initially led by Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who had been the leaders of the NWSA. \n\nFollowing the Civil War, in 1866, leaders of the abolition and suffrage movements founded the American Equal Rights Association (AERA) to advocate for citizens' right to vote regardless of race or sex. Divisions among the group's members, which had existed from the outset, became apparent during the struggle over the ratification of two amendments to the United States Constitution. The proposed Fourteenth Amendment, which guaranteed equal protection of the laws to all citizens, regardless of race, color, creed, or previous condition of servitude, added the word \"male\" to the Constitution for the first time. The proposed Fifteenth Amendment extended franchise to African American men, but not to women. Following its contentious 1869 convention, the AERA dissolved, leading to the formation of two organizations lobbying for woman suffrage, the National Woman Suffrage Association (NWSA), and the American Woman Suffrage Association (AWSA).\n\nThe AWSA was founded in November 1869 at a convention in Cleveland that was organized by leaders of the New England Woman Suffrage Association (NEWSA). The NEWSA had been created in November 1868 as part of the developing split within the women's movement. The AWSA and the NEWSA operated separately with somewhat overlapping leadership.\nIn 1870, Lucy Stone, the leader of the AWSA, began publishing an eight-page weekly newspaper called the \"Woman's Journal\" as the voice of the AWSA. Eventually it became a voice of the women's movement as a whole.\n\nThe more radical NWSA, led by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, condemned the Fifteenth Amendment as an injustice to women. The AWSA was the more conservative of the two groups. Its founders, including Lucy Stone, Henry Blackwell, Julia Ward Howe and Josephine Ruffin, strongly supported the Republican Party and the Fifteenth Amendment, which they felt would not win congressional approval if it included the vote for women. Another of its members was noted abolitionist and women's rights advocate Sojourner Truth.\n\nAWSA distinguished itself from NWSA in several additional ways:\n\n\nSeveral modest but significant gains for women suffrage occurred during the twenty year period of AWSA activity. Women in two Western states, Wyoming and Utah, won the right to vote. An average of 4.4 states per year considered, but did not adopt woman suffrage. Eight additional states also considered referenda on the issue; none, however, were successful.\n\nThe AWSA was initially larger than the NWSA, but it declined in strength during the 1880s. Stanton and Anthony, the leading figures in the NWSA, were more widely known as leaders of the women's suffrage movement during this period and more influential in setting its direction.\n\nDuring the 1880s, it became increasingly clear that group rivalries were counterproductive to the goal of votes for women. Conversations about a merger between the AWSA and NWSA began in 1886. After several years of negotiations, the organizations officially joined together in 1890 to form the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA). The leaders of this new organization included Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony, Carrie Chapman Catt, Frances Willard, Mary Church Terrell, Matilda Joslyn Gage and Anna Howard Shaw. Stanton served in a largely ceremonial capacity as the NAWSA's first president while Anthony was its leading force in practice.The suffrage movement distanced itself from labor groups and kept its focus on the more affluent levels of society. \n\nThe first three volumes of the six-volume \"History of Woman Suffrage\" were written by the leaders of the NWSA prior to the merger. It included a 107-page chapter on the history of the AWSA, the NWSA's bitter rival, but provided much more information about the NWSA itself that was written from its own point of view. This unbalanced portrayal of the movement influenced scholarly research in this field for many years. Not until about the middle of the 20th century did the AWSA begin to receive adequate scholarly attention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50634496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50634496", "title": "Bpoplive", "text": "Bpoplive\n\nBpoplive (also marketed as Brexit Live presents bpopLIVE) was a planned music festival and political rally in support of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union (\"Brexit\"), supported by the pressure group Leave.EU and scheduled to be held on 19 June 2016 at Genting Arena, Birmingham. The proposed line-up for the event was changed several times, as artists pulled out complaining that they had not been told that it was a political event. The original plan was for three events to be held in the run-up to the EU membership referendum, but the concert, which was to be held on 8 May 2016, was cancelled when all of the line-up except Phats and Small pulled out.\n\nLeave.EU denied that the event was political, and said that it was a non-partisan event to increase voter registration among young people, claiming that the presence of Leave.EU logos and anti-EU speakers on Bpoplive promotional material was \"a miscommunication\", but the event has been widely referred to in the media as a \"Brexit concert\" or \"anti-EU music festival\" and in the original press release as \"the biggest political rally in modern British history\". Politicians from the Leave.EU campaign were also set to speak at the concert.\n\nBuzzFeed identified Bpoplive as an attempt to reach the key youth demographic by the Leave campaign. Leave.EU described the event as related to the American Rock the Vote campaign, a non-partisan attempt to engage young voters, who traditionally have low turnout.\n\nThe cancelled 8 May event was explicitly organised by Leave.EU and Grassroots Out; however, on 26 May 2016, Leave.EU disclaimed any role in the 19 June festival beyond endorsing it. The official organiser was \"Brexit Live\", which is registered as a non-party campaign group separately from Leave.EU, which means that Bpoplive's costs did not count towards Leave.EU's spending limits. However, the \"Daily Mirror\" noted that Bpoplive was being organised by Leave.EU's leaders, and Brexit's Live's spokesperson—who was also Leave.EU's spokesperson—told the \"Mirror\" that Bpoplive's expenses \"probably should\" be registered under Leave.EU, but that they had not broken any rules.\n\nThe first Bpoplive concert was organized for 8 May 2016, the day after local and regional elections. The line-up was announced as including UK garage duo DJ Luck and MC Neat, electro swing sextet The Electric Swing Circus, house act Phats and Small and a DJ set from Sigma. The press release for the event also promised \"speeches from leading personalities and politicians who support leaving the EU\". When contacted by the press, all artists except Phats and Small—who could not be contacted—claimed that they had not been told that the event was political, and would not be participating. A Leave.EU press officer denied that the event was political, and said that there had been two possible concepts for the event—a partisan pro-Brexit rally and a non-partisan \"Rock the Vote\" type event—and that the wrong press release was sent out by mistake. The event never went ahead.\n\nBpoplive was subsequently rearranged to be held on 19 June 2016, the Sunday before the referendum. The line-up was announced as boyband 5ive, R&B singer Alesha Dixon, boyband East 17, disco group Sister Sledge and the soul singer Gwen Dickey from the band Rose Royce. Tickets were made available starting from £23. 5ive were announced as a duo, with only Ritchie Neville—who had previously made comments that were interpreted as being in favour of the Leave campaign—and Scott Robinson from the group taking part, while Sean Conlon, who had tweeted messages in support of EU migrants, was not included. The entire band subsequently withdrew. Alesha Dixon, East 17 and Sister Sledge also pulled out. Publicists for both 5ive and Dixon said that they had not been told that it was a political event. The only artist to confirm participation was Gwen Dickey, who said that she would still be taking part as an entertainer but that as an American she could not vote in the referendum and had no opinion on it one way or the other. Between the acts, Leave.EU campaigners Nigel Farage, Liam Fox and Kate Hoey were set to give speeches.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the second line-up, Leave.EU director Arron Banks announced that there would be a third line-up, who the campaign's Head of Communications Andy Wigmore described as \"British Patriots [who] want to leave the EU\".\n\nOn 1 June 2016, Leave.EU announced \"Bpop Live version 3.0\", with a line-up comprising Cheryl Baker, Mike Nolan, Jay Aston and Bobby McVay performing as \"Formerly of Bucks Fizz\" and an Elvis impersonator, Gordon Hendricks. R&B singer Alexander O'Neal and soul singer Kenny Thomas were subsequently added. Formerly of Bucks Fizz confirmed on their Twitter account that they were playing but did not endorse either Leave or Remain. In the following days, Ray Lewis of The Drifters was added to the line-up, and the ticket price was reduced to £5.\n\nOn 14 June, Leave.EU announced that the concert had been cancelled, suggesting that this was a demand from the Electoral Commission, which denied any involvement in the decision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4676701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4676701", "title": "Brentwood and Ongar Independent Conservative Party", "text": "Brentwood and Ongar Independent Conservative Party\n\nThe Brentwood and Ongar Independent Conservative Party was founded in 1999 by members of Brentwood and Ongar Conservative Association. This breakaway group alleged that the local Conservative association had been infiltrated by the local Peniel Pentecostal Church in Pilgrims Hatch, with 119 church members joining and some having installed themselves in key posts. \n\nThe members of the Independent Conservatives were subsequently expelled from the mainstream Conservative Party for being members of a group that was standing in opposition to them. The claims were investigated by Conservative Central Office who decided that evidence did not suggest entryism.\n\nUntil the 2002 election, the Brentwood and Ongar Independent Conservative Party had a councillor in Shenfield, Anthony Galbraith, who had crossed the floor in the council chamber from the mainstream Conservative Party. The party never succeeded in having any election candidates elected.\n\nIn February 1999, the Independent Conservatives issued a press release suggesting that the Peniel church was a cult and was 'a danger to the people of Brentwood'. The church sued for libel, and Galbraith settled for an undisclosed sum and admitted that the 'allegation referred to was wholly untrue'.\n\nThe Independent Conservatives were instrumental in encouraging Martin Bell to stand for the Brentwood and Ongar constituency in the 2001 general election.\n\nThe party was dissolved and removed from the Electoral Commission register on 18 November 2003.\n"}
{"id": "9856674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9856674", "title": "Buyer agency agreement", "text": "Buyer agency agreement\n\nBuyer Agency Agreements are where a Realtor represents the buyer of real estate.\n\nWith the advent of \"Buyer Agency\" (Buyer Brokerage) in the early 1990s as opposed to seller agency, a real estate Agent/Broker agrees and contracts to represent the Buyer in her purchase of a home/property. Buyer Agency Agreements were developed to set out the terms and conditions of this representation. They are similar to the written \"Listing Agreements\", required between Listing Agents and Sellers (property owners). Buyer Agency Agreements set out the main conditions of the relationship between the Buyer Agent and her Buyer Client including such things as the duration of the agreement, the commission to be earned/paid, and the various rights, duties and obligations of the parties.\n\nThe Buyer Agent owes fiduciary duties to the Buyer under this relationship and agreement, including fidelity, honesty, dedication to purpose, acting in the Buyer's best interests, etc. The commission to be paid to the Buyer's Agent in the Buyer Agency Agreement, though ultimately the Buyer's obligation, is generally offset in whole or in part against the share, or \"co-op\", commission offered by the Listing Agent through the Multiple Listing Service (\"MLS\"). \n\nAn exclusive buyer agent is a real estate agent who works for a company that does not ever represent sellers in real estate transactions. Exclusive buyer agents (and their clients) avoid the conflict of interest of working with an agent who promotes their listings or their firm's listings. It is beneficial to a buyer to have representation because the agent is responsible for acquiring information on the property and advising the buyer based on that information. Without an agreement, the agent may not have an obligation to work with the buyer's best interests in mind.\n\nA Realtor that is acting as a Buyer's Agent has a significant economic conflict of interest if their commission is split with the Seller's Agent, as in most real estate transactions. Because a commissioned Buyer's Agent is paid more if the Buyer pays more money, the Buyer's Agent has a direct economic incentive to make the Buyer pay more for a property.\n\n"}
{"id": "23229674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23229674", "title": "Central Cardiac Audit Database", "text": "Central Cardiac Audit Database\n\nThe Central Cardiac Audit Database (CCAD) comprises seven national heart disease audits. Each audit enables health professionals to continually measure and improve care by comparing their work to specific standards and national trend. These audits from 2011 are part of the National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research at University College London. \n\nThe following audits are available within the CCAD:\n\n"}
{"id": "21310547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21310547", "title": "Country Style, USA", "text": "Country Style, USA\n\nCountry Style, USA is a series of 15-minute radio and film programs produced by the US Army as a recruiting aid from 1957 to 1960 featuring top American country music artists. Each year 13 episodes were produced in Nashville, Tennessee, and distributed to local radio and TV stations. Among the hosts were Jody McCrea and Charlie Applewhite. Artists featured on the shows included Johnny Cash, Moon Mullican, and Jim Reeves.\n\nThe programs were produced by Owen Bradley and his brother Harold. They should not be confused with the 1950 DuMont TV series, \"Country Style\".\n\nThe series was released on DVD by season in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "7551338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7551338", "title": "Democracy (video game)", "text": "Democracy (video game)\n\nDemocracy is a government simulation game that was first developed by Positech Games in 2005, with a sequel released in December 2007 and a third game in 2013. The player plays as if they are the president or prime minister of a democratic government. The player must introduce and alter policies in seven areas – tax, economy, welfare, foreign policy, transport, law and order and public services. Each policy has an effect on the happiness of various voter groups, as well as affecting factors such as crime and air quality. The player has to deal with \"situations\", which are typically problems such as petrol protests or homelessness, and also has to make decisions on dilemmas that arise each turn.\n\nAfter deciding which nation to play as, the player must win the support of various factions which make up the electorate, including the religious, patriotic, parents, capitalists, socialists, liberals, conservatives and others, and thus win the ensuing elections that take place. The player introduces policies and uses sliders to change the amount of government funding, level of a tax or generally the law and regulations in that particular area. Of course, because each individual person belongs to several factions (e.g.: a Poor Conservative Smoker who is a Patriot or a Rich, Socialist person who is also a Drinker), it is practically impossible to control all the voters. Before each general election, two promises are made by the player to the electorate (e.g.: reduce unemployment by 10%). If the player has not kept these promises by the next election, the people become annoyed and cynicism increases.\n\nTo make policy changes, the player must spend political capital, which is generated by loyal ministers.\n\nThe player must also try to balance the budget and pay off the country's debts without losing votes and causing tax evasion due to very high taxes.\n\nThere are also many events, dilemmas and situations in the game which the player must deal with. An example of an event might be the curing of a disease, a dilemma may be who to appoint as a senior judge and a situation may be high levels of pollution. An event happens, sometimes due to policies however the player doesn't take part; they simply profit or suffer from it. A dilemma is an important decision which must be resolved for the turn to be ended and situations are ongoing conditions which must be dealt with or helped and enjoyed.\n\nThe games designer has described the code behind the game as being based on a neural network. This has allowed the game to be very easily modded, and most of the 'game logic' in it is openly editable in simple text CSV files, allowing players to change the way the core mechanics of the game operate. A number of mods have been released for both the first and second game in the series, and are generally released on the Positech forum. Mods have included new countries (and real countries for \"Democracy 2\") and the addition of factors such as inflation, as well as enhancement of the voter cynicism factor in \"Democracy 2\".\n\nA sequel to the game was released in December 2007, which, while very similar to the original in terms of gameplay, differs in that it uses fictional nations (although modders have converted the real nations from the original for play on the new version), and has numerous new features, including party membership, terrorism and real world statistical data. Many of the previously existing features have been enhanced: for example, the amount of political capital needed to change a policy now differs depending on which policy one is changing, and whether one is introducing it, raising it, lowering it, or cancelling it. In December 2008, \"Democracy 2\" won the Game Tunnel \"Simulation game of the year\" award, something the first game had already achieved. In October 2013, \"Democracy 3\" was released. In late 2015 Positech announced an 'expandalone' for the game set entirely in Africa, with a different simulation model, music and graphics entitled \"Democracy 3: Africa\".\n\nThe original game was released in 2007 in the United States by Tri-Synergy, with added events and policies, and a special mode in which the player controls a fictional nation. The game received \"mixed\" reviews, according to game aggregator Metacritic. Website Game Tunnel scored the game 8/10 overall, stating \"losing a game of \"Democracy\" is almost as rewarding as winning your next election\" and \"there is always the motivation to do better next time\". The website also awarded \"Democracy\" its own 2005 'Simulation Game of the Year' award. About.com rated the game 3.5/5 and said \"\"Democracy\" does exactly what it sets out to do - get you thinking about how even small changes effect [sic] different groups of people\".\n\n\"Democracy 3\" also received \"mixed\" reviews, according to Metacritic. While Polish magazine \"CD-Action\" stated that the game \"does much more for understanding democracy than any citizenship lesson,\" Daniel Schindel's critical review for \"Unwinnable\" noted several inaccuracies concerning the in-game effects of imposing death penalty, legalizing drugs, and strong labor laws. A spin-off game, titled \"Democracy 3: Africa\", was quietly released in early 2016. The game focused entirely on nations on the continent of Africa and added features to address the corruption, authoritarianism, military dictatorships, and female genital mutilation that is abundant on the continent. Players are tasked with fixing these issues, or regressing further into a dictatorship.\n\nIn midsummer of 2018, Positech Games announced that it would release an updated version of the game, in the form of \"Democracy 4\". While a specific release date has not been presented, the official website declares that the game will be published in 2019. This title, as with the spin-off, \"Democracy: Africa\", will be produced by a joint venture between Positech Games and Stargazy Studios. In addition to \"Democracy: Africa\", Stargazy previously provided translation and localization services for \"Democracy 3\". New features added to \"Democracy 4\" will include simulated corruption, crackdowns on political freedoms and free speech, and even authoritarianism. Events and decisions in the game will be updated to reflect the passage of time between the release of \"Democracy 3\" and \"Democracy 4\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30854993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30854993", "title": "Digital self-defense", "text": "Digital self-defense\n\nDigital self-defense is the use of self-defense strategies by Internet users to ensure digital security; that is to say, the protection of confidential personal electronic information. Internet security software provides initial protection by setting up a firewall, as well as scanning computers for malware, viruses, Trojan horses, worms and spyware. However information at most risk includes personal details such as birthdates, phone numbers, bank account and schooling details, sexuality, religious affiliations, email addresses and passwords. This information is often openly revealed in social networking sites leaving Internet users vulnerable to social engineering and possibly Internet crime. Mobile devices, especially those with Wi-Fi, allow this information to be shared inadvertently.\n\nDigital self-defense requires Internet users to take an active part in guarding their own personal information. Four key strategies are frequently suggested to assist that protection.\n\nComputer security in this context is referring to Internet security software. The ongoing security of private information requires frequent updating of virus and spyware definitions so that ongoing developments in malicious software cannot interfere with, or copy, private information.\n\nThe practice of utilising more than one email account to separate personal and business usage from recreational usage is a strategy commonly used to manage personal privacy. The free and ready availability of email accounts from sites such as Yahoo, Google or Hotmail allows the protection of personal identity through the use of different names to identify each email account. These throw-away accounts can be discarded or replaced at will, providing another level of protection.\n\nA username is required to set up email accounts and to open accounts for various official, commercial, recreational and social networking sites. In many cases, an email address may also be utilised as a username. Usernames that correlate with personal information such as names or nicknames are more at risk than ones that are cryptic or anonymous, particularly on social and recreational sites.\n\nA password is a mandatory security measure that accompanies usernames. The use of personal data to construct passwords i.e. family members’ names, pet’s names or birth dates increases the risk to confidential information and are easier to crack than long complicated passwords so password strength is a key strategy for protecting personal information. A password can be weak or strong:a weak password is \"cutekittens\", a strong password is \"?lACpAs56IKMs\".\n\nAccording to Microsoft an ideal password should be at least 14 characters in length and have letters, punctuation, symbols, and numbers, where complexity is added by the inclusion of uppercase letters.\n\nSocial networking sites offer greater security risks to personal electronic information because sensitive, private or confidential information such as personal identifiers are routinely used to create public profiles. Many websites give options to suppress the amount of personal information revealed through the customisation of privacy settings. However privacy settings can reset if changes to the website occur.\n\n"}
{"id": "3283062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3283062", "title": "Economics of fascism", "text": "Economics of fascism\n\nThe economics of fascism refers to the economic policies implemented by fascist governments. Historians and other scholars disagree on the question of whether a specifically fascist type of economic policy can be said to exist. Baker argues that there is an identifiable economic system in fascism that is distinct from those advocated by other ideologies, comprising essential characteristics that fascist nations shared. Payne, Paxton, Sternhell et al. argue that while fascist economies share some similarities, there is no distinctive form of fascist economic organization. Feldman and Mason argue that fascism is distinguished by an absence of coherent economic ideology and an absence of serious economic thinking. They state that the decisions taken by fascist leaders cannot be explained within a logical economic framework.\n\nThe first fascist movements arose in the last years of World War I. They were a form of radical nationalism carrying a promise of national rebirth, they blamed liberalism, socialism and materialism for the decadence they perceived in society and culture, and they expressed an appreciation for violence and the role of leadership and willpower in shaping society.\n\nOne significant fascist economic belief was that prosperity would naturally follow once the nation has achieved a cultural and spiritual re-awakening. Different members of a fascist party would often make completely opposite statements about the economic policies they supported. Once in power, fascists usually adopted whatever economic program they believed to be most suitable for their political goals. Long-lasting fascist regimes (such as that of Benito Mussolini in Italy) made drastic changes to their economic policy from time to time.\n\nFascism rose to power by taking advantage of the political and economic climate of the 1920s and 1930s, particularly the deep polarization of some European societies (such as the Kingdom of Italy and Weimar Germany), which were democracies with elected parliaments dominated by supporters of \"laissez-faire\" capitalism and Marxian socialism, whose intense opposition to each other made it difficult for stable governments to be formed. Fascists used this situation as an argument against democracy, which they viewed as ineffective and weak. Fascist regimes generally came into existence in times of crisis, when economic elites, landowners and business owners feared that a revolution or uprising was imminent. Fascists allied themselves with the economic elites, promising to protect their social status and to suppress any potential working class revolution. In exchange, the elites were asked to subordinate their interests to a broader nationalist project, thus fascist economic policies generally protect inequality and privilege while also featuring an important role for state intervention in the economy.\n\nFascists opposed both international socialism and free market capitalism, arguing that their views represented a third position. They claimed to provide a realistic economic alternative that was neither \"laissez-faire\" capitalism nor communism. They favored corporatism and class collaboration, believing that the existence of inequality and social hierarchy was beneficial (contrary to the views of socialists), while also arguing that the state had a role in mediating relations between classes (contrary to the views of liberal capitalists).\n\nAn important aspect of fascist economies was economic dirigism, meaning an economy where the government often subsidizes favorable companies and exerts strong directive influence over investment, as opposed to having a merely regulatory role. In general, fascist economies were based on private property and private initiative, but these were contingent upon service to the state.\n\nFascist governments encouraged the pursuit of private profit and offered many benefits to large businesses, but they demanded in return that all economic activity should serve the national interest. Historian Gaetano Salvemini argued in 1936 that fascism makes taxpayers responsible to private enterprise because \"the State pays for the blunders of private enterprise... Profit is private and individual. Loss is public and social\". Stanley Payne argues that fascist movements defended the principle of private property because they held it to be \"inherent to the freedom and spontaneity of the individual personality\", but that they also aimed to eliminate the autonomy or in some cases the existence of large-scale capitalism. Jurgen Kuczynski characterizes a fascist economy as a type of \"monopoly capitalism\", which preserves the \"fundamental traits of capitalist production\", such as the fact that production is carried out for the market by privately owned firms which employ workers for a certain wage. He argues that fascism is \"nothing but a particular form of government within capitalist society\", which instead does feature a major role for the state as was also the case in some early capitalist societies of previous centuries.\n\nFascism operated from a social Darwinist view of human relations and their aim was to promote superior individuals and weed out the weak. In terms of economic practice, this meant promoting the interests of successful businessmen while destroying trade unions and other organizations of the working class. Fascist governments declared the trade union movement illegal and replaced it with labor organizations under the direct control of the government, which ensured that workers could not undertake any effective economic action. Membership in these labor organizations was compulsory, their leaders were appointed by the ruling party rather than elected by the members and they were presented as a new type of unions which would serve to harmonize the interests of workers and businesses. However, in practice they primarily served the interests of major business owners, who were able to lobby the ruling party to appoint the leaders they desired. In order to maintain and increase the profits of industry, fascist states eliminated the possibility of mass protest and then cut wages either directly or indirectly. Strikes were strictly banned and prison sentences could be given to employees who stopped working as a group.\n\nFascist governments in both Italy and Germany privatized state-owned enterprises at certain times. These privatizations were carried out in the early stages of both regimes (1922–1925 for Italy and 1934–1937 for Germany) and represented a reversal of the policies of the democratic governments which had preceded them. The democratic governments had brought a number of industries under state ownership and the fascists decided to return them to private ownership. In doing so, they went against the mainstream economic trends of their time, when most Western governments were increasing state ownership. Fascist privatization policies were driven by a desire to secure the support of wealthy industrialists as well as by the need to increase government revenues in order to balance budgets. Significantly, fascist governments were among the first to undertake large-scale privatizations in modern times.\n\nIn most cases, fascists discouraged or banned foreign trade, supporting protectionism. Fascists believed that too much international trade would make the national economy dependent on international capital and therefore vulnerable to international economic sanctions. Economic self-sufficiency, known as autarky, was a major goal of most fascist governments.\n\nFurthermore, fascism was highly militaristic and as such fascists often significantly increased military spending. Recruitment into the military was one of the main policies used by fascist governments to reduce unemployment.\n\nFascism has had complicated relations regarding capitalism, which changed over time and differed between Fascist states. Fascists commonly have sought to eliminate the autonomy of large-scale capitalism to the state. However, Fascism does support private property rights and the existence of a market economy. Due to the economic hardships that resulted from \"war communism\", which almost toppled the leadership of Soviet Russia in 1921, fascists in Germany and Italy followed the examples of Lenin's New Economic Policy (NEP), which had endorsed \"state capitalism\" and permitted the public to trade, buy and sell for \"private profit\". Although the Bolsheviks were averse to the principles of open markets and profit, they were nonetheless forced by dire circumstances to allow \"privatization and private initiative\" that resulted in a Soviet \"mixed economy\". For fascist leaders, following the two economic pillars of Fascism—\"productionism\" and \"syndicalism\"—was more important than adhering to ideological commitments that could risk economic collapse and mass unemployment that had plagued Lenin's nationalization policies.\n\nMussolini claimed in 1933 that were Fascism to follow the modern phase of capitalism, its path would \"lead inexorably into state capitalism, which is nothing more nor less than state socialism turned on its head. In either event, [whether the outcome be state capitalism or state socialism] the result is the bureaucratization of the economic activities of the nation\". During this period, Mussolini identified his economic policies with \"state capitalism\" and \"state socialism\", which later was described as \"economic dirigisme\", an economic system where the state has the power to direct economic production and allocation of resources.\n\nThe National Fascist Party of Benito Mussolini came to power in Italy in 1922 at the end of a period of social unrest. Working class activism was at a high point, militant trade unions were organizing increasingly frequent strikes to demand workers' rights and the Italian Socialist Party was making significant electoral gains. This caused widespread fear among Italian business circles and part of the middle class, who believed that a communist revolution was imminent. With the traditional right-wing parties appearing incapable of dealing with the situation, King Victor Emmanuel III turned to the young Fascist movement, which he considered to hold a hardline right-wing orientation by violently suppressing strikes and appointed Benito Mussolini prime minister. Soon after his rise to power, Mussolini defined his economic stance by saying: \"The [Fascist] government will accord full freedom to private enterprise and will abandon all intervention in private economy\".\n\nSpecifically, during the first four years of the new regime under a multiparty coalition government (1922–1925) the Fascists had a generally \"laissez-faire\" economic policy under the Finance Minister Alberto De Stefani, a former stalwart leader in the Center Party. Free competition was encouraged and De Stefani initially also reduced taxes, regulations and trade restrictions on the whole. De Stefani reduced government expenditure and balanced the budget. Some previous legislation introduced by the Socialists, such as the inheritance tax, was repealed. During this period, prosperity increased and by mid-1920s industrial production had passed its wartime peak, but this was accompanied with inflation. Overall, this was a period when Fascist economic policy mostly followed classical liberal lines, with the added features of attempting to stimulate domestic production (rather than foreign trade) and balancing the budget.\n\nThis was also a period when the Italian Fascist government undertook a large-scale privatization policy, which was among the first such policies in the modern world. Fascist Italy was the only country that sold state-owned enterprises and assets to private firms in the 1920s; the next country to adopt this approach was Nazi Germany in the 1930s. The Italian privatizations included the sale of most state-owned telephone networks and services as well as the former state monopoly on match sale. The state monopoly on life insurance was eliminated, the metal machinery firm Ansaldo was returned to private ownership (after having been nationalized by the previous government) and private firms were awarded concessions to set up tolls on motorways.\n\nNevertheless, \"once Mussolini acquired a firmer hold of power... \"laissez-faire\" was progressively abandoned in favour of government intervention, free trade was replaced by protection[ism] and economic objectives were increasingly couched in exhortations and military terminology\". De Stefani was forced to resign in 1925 because his policy of free trade was opposed by many Italian business leaders, who favored protectionism and subsidies to insulate domestic business from international competition. In 1926, Mussolini gave an impassioned speech demanding monetary policies to halt inflation and stabilize the Italian currency (the lira). He also took the final step of officially banning any kind of strike action. From 1927 to 1929, under the leadership of the new Finance Minister Alberto Beneduce, the Italian economy experienced a period of deflation, driven by the government's monetary policies.\n\nIn 1929, Italy was hit hard by the Great Depression. The Italian economy, having just emerged from a period of monetary stabilization, was not ready for this shock and prices fell and production slowed. Unemployment rose from 300,787 in 1929 to 1,018,953 in 1933. Trying to handle the crisis, the Fascist government nationalized the holdings of large banks which had accrued significant industrial securities. The government also issued new securities to provide a source of credit for the banks and began enlisting the help of various cartels (\"consorzi\") that had been created by Italian business leaders since 1922. The government offered recognition and support to these organizations in exchange for promises that they would manipulate prices in accordance with government priorities.\n\nA number of mixed entities were formed, called \"instituti\" or \"enti nazionali\", whose purpose it was to bring together representatives of the government and of the major businesses. These representatives discussed economic policy and manipulated prices and wages so as to satisfy both the wishes of the government and the wishes of business. The government considered this arrangement to be a success and Italian Fascists soon began to pride themselves on this outcome, saying they had survived the Great Depression without infringing on private property. In 1934, the Fascist Minister of Agriculture said: \"While nearly everywhere else private property was bearing the major burdens and suffering from the hardest blows of the depression, in Italy, thanks to the actions of this Fascist government, private property not only has been saved, but has also been strengthened\".\n\nThis economic model based on a partnership between government and business was soon extended to the political sphere in what came to be known as corporatism. From 1934 onwards, believing that Italy could have avoided the Great Depression if it had not been linked to international markets, Mussolini insisted that autarky should be one of the primary goals of his government's economic policy. To this end, the Fascists began to impose significant tariffs and other trade barriers. In 1934, Mussolini boasted that three-quarters of Italian businesses \"is in the hands of the state\".\n\nVarious banking and industrial companies were financially supported by the state. One of Mussolini's first acts was indeed to fund the metallurgical trust Ansaldo to the height of 400 millions Liras. Following the deflation crisis which started in 1926, banks such as the Banco di Roma, the Banco di Napoli or the Banco di Sicilia were also assisted by the state. In 1933, Mussolini created the Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale (IRI) with the special aim of rescuing floundering companies. By 1939, the IRI controlled 20% of the Italian industry through government-linked companies (GLCs), including 75% of pig iron production and 90% of the shipbuilding industry.\n\nMussolini also adopted a Keynesian policy of government spending on public works to stimulate the economy. Between 1929 and 1934, public works spending tripled to overtake defense spending as the largest item of government expenditure. At this time, Mussolini said about Keynes that \"despite the latter's prominent position as a Liberal\", his work may be considered a \"useful introduction to fascist economics\". Italian Fascists also expressed great interest in the works of neoclassical economist Vilfredo Pareto. Pareto had argued that democracy was an illusion and that a ruling class always emerged and enriched itself. For him, the key question was how actively the rulers ruled and for this reason he called for a drastic reduction of the state and welcomed Mussolini's rule as a transition to this minimal state so as to liberate the \"pure\" economic forces. Fascist intellectuals were determined to foster economic development in order for the economy to “attain its productive maximum”. They believed that their historic responsibility was to \"develop to its ultimate conclusion the creative elements that remain alive in capitalism\".\n\nItalian Fascists and their precursors had always been focused on the need to bring about a more productive society through the economic collaboration of the classes, opposing class struggle. They believed in the critical importance of economic productivity as a revolutionary force and they were \"productivists, rather than distributionists\". Nevertheless, the Fascist government also made efforts to appear concerned with the real interests of its subjects in order to create a \"consensual, charismatic regime\" and to render the masses of the peninsula governable. Fascist ideologues argued that the discontent of the lower classes represented a potential threat to the \"well-being, the internal security, the power and the existence of the state\" and therefore measures had to be taken to alleviate this discontent. They also argued that a \"minimal concern for the well-being of the labor force\" served the national interest, by improving productive potential. For these reasons, the government pursued a complex social welfare and assistance program, which \"compared favorably with the more advanced European nations\" despite the lower level of industrial development on the Italian peninsula.\n\nIn 1935, following the Italian invasion of Ethiopia, the League of Nations imposed trade sanctions on Italy. This forced Italy to achieve autarky immediately and strengthened Mussolini's belief that economic self-sufficiency was vital to national security. The sanctions did not have their intended effects because the Italian government had already begun restricting trade and preparing for autarky. In particular, Italy imposed a severe ban on most imports and the government sought to persuade consumers to buy Italian-made products. For instance, it launched the slogan \"Preferite il Prodotto Italiano\" (\"Buy Italian produce\"). In May 1935, the government compelled individuals and businesses to turn over all foreign issued securities to the Bank of Italy (Banca d'Italia). On July 15, 1936, the economic sanctions on Italy were lifted, but the Fascists continued to insist on economic isolation.\n\nThroughout the 1930s, the Italian economy maintained the corporatist model that had been established during the Great Depression. At the same time, Mussolini had also growing ambitions of extending Italy's foreign influence through both diplomacy and military intervention. After the invasion of Ethiopia, Italy began supplying both troops and equipment to the Spanish nationalists under General Francisco Franco, who were fighting in the Spanish Civil War against a leftist government. These foreign interventions required increased military spending and the Italian economy became increasingly subordinated to the needs of its armed forces. By 1939, Italy had the highest percentage of state-owned enterprises after the Soviet Union.\n\nFinally, Italy's involvement in World War II as a member of the Axis powers required the establishment of a war economy. This put severe strain on the corporatist model since the war quickly started going badly for Italy and it became difficult for the government to persuade business leaders to finance what they saw as a military disaster. The Allied invasion of Italy in 1943 caused the Italian political structure and the economy to rapidly collapse. On the other hand, the Allies and the Germans took over the administration of the areas of Italy under their control. By the end of the war, the Italian economy had been all but destroyed—per capita income in 1944 was at its lowest point since the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nAdolf Hitler regarded economic issues as relatively unimportant. In 1922, Hitler proclaimed that \"world history teaches us that no people has become great through its economy but that a people can very well perish thereby\" and later concluded that \"the economy is something of secondary importance\". Hitler and the Nazis held a very strong idealist conception of history, which held that human events are guided by small numbers of exceptional individuals following a higher ideal. They believed that all economic concerns, being purely material, were unworthy of their consideration. Hitler went as far as to blame all previous German governments since Bismarck of having \"subjugated the nation to materialism\" by relying more on peaceful economic development instead of expansion through war.\n\nFor these reasons, the Nazis never had a clearly defined economic programme. The original \"Twenty-Five Point Programme\" of the party, adopted in 1920, listed several economic demands, but the degree to which the Nazis supported this programme in later years has been questioned. Several attempts were made in the 1920s to change some of the program or replace it entirely. For instance, Gottfried Feder proposed a new 39-point program (1924) that kept some of the old planks, replaced others and added many completely new ones. Hitler refused to allow any discussion of the party programme after 1925, ostensibly on the grounds that no discussion was necessary because the programme was \"inviolable\" and did not need any changes. At the same time, Hitler also never voiced public support for the programme and many historians argue that he was in fact privately opposed to it. Hitler did not mention any of the planks of the programme in his book \"Mein Kampf\" and only talked about it in passing as \"the so-called programme of the movement\".\n\nHitler called his political party \"National Socialist\", but he was clear to point out that his interpretation of socialism \"has nothing to do with Marxian Socialism\", saying that \"Marxism is anti-property; true Socialism is not\". At a later time, Hitler said: \"Socialism! That is an unfortunate word altogether... What does socialism really mean? If people have something to eat and their pleasures, then they have their socialism\". He also expressed a wish that he had called his party \"social revolutionary\" instead.\n\nHitler made very different statements about his economic views on different occasions and at one point was quoted as saying: \"I had only to develop logically what social democracy failed... National Socialism is what Marxism might have been if it could have broken its absurd ties with a democratic order... Why need we trouble to socialize banks and factories? We socialize human beings\". At another point, Hitler said in private that \"I absolutely insist on protecting private property... we must encourage private initiative\". On yet another occasion, he qualified that statement by saying that the government should have the power to regulate the use of private property for the good of the nation. In spite of this, he later asserted: \"It is my firm conviction that property rights... must be unconditionally respected. Any tampering with them would eliminate one of the most vital incentives to human activity and would jeopardize future endeavor\". Hitler clearly believed that the lack of a precise economic programme was one of the Nazi Party's strengths, saying: \"The basic feature of our economic theory is that we have no theory at all\".\n\nHitler's political beliefs drew heavily upon social Darwinism—the view that natural selection applies as much to human society as it does to biological organisms. Hitler believed that history was shaped by a violent struggle between nations and races; and that a nation needed to be united under a strong, centralized state led by an heroic leader in order to succeed in this struggle and that individuals within a nation battled with each other for survival; and that such ruthless competition was good for the health of the nation because it promoted \"superior individuals\" to higher positions in society.\n\nBefore World War II, the Nazis placed non-Nazi Party professionals in charge of economic policy. Hitler appointed Hjalmar Schacht, a former member of the German Democratic Party, as Chairman of the Reichsbank in 1933 and minister of economics in 1934. At first, Schacht continued the economic policies introduced by the government of Kurt von Schleicher in 1932 to combat the effects of the Great Depression. These policies were mostly Keynesian, relying on large public works programs supported by deficit spending—such as the construction of the Autobahn—to stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment (which stood at 30% in early 1933). There was a major reduction in unemployment over the following years, while price controls prevented the recurrence of inflation.\n\nThe Nazis outlawed independent trade unions and banned strikes, creating the German Labor Front (DAF), which became one of the largest organizations in Germany, comprising over 35,000 full-time employees by 1939. They also directed Schacht to place more emphasis on military production and rearmament. After the Nazi takeover in 1933, Germany slowly began to recover from the Great Depression. Several economists, such as Michal Kalecki, have seen the German recovery as an example of military Keynesianism. However, others have noted that the bulk of the German military buildup occurred after 1936 when the economic recovery was well underway.\n\nIn the 1930s, Nazi Germany transferred many companies and services from state ownership into the private sector, while other Western capitalist countries were moving in the opposite direction and strove for increased state ownership of industry. In most cases, this was a return to the private sector of firms which had been taken into state ownership by the democratic government of the Weimar Republic as a result of the Great Depression. The firms returned to private ownership by the Nazi government \"belonged to a wide range of sectors: steel, mining, banking, local public utilities, shipyards, ship-lines, railways, etc.\" and in addition some public services began to be provided by semi-private entities that were connected to the Nazi Party rather than the German state. There were two primary reasons for the Nazi privatization policy. First, especially in the early years of the Nazi regime, it was used as a way to build good relations between the government and business interests. Second, the Nazi government greatly increased public expenditure, especially on military re-armament and infrastructure projects. Existing sources of revenue were not sufficient to cover the new expenses, so the government was forced to sell assets in order to gain funds.\n\nIn June 1933, the Reinhardt Program was introduced. It was an extensive infrastructure development project that combined indirect incentives, such as tax reductions, with direct public investment in waterways, railroads and highways. The Reinhardt Program was followed by other similar initiatives, with the result that between 1933 and 1936 the German construction industry was greatly expanded. In 1933, only 666,000 Germans worked in construction and by 1936 the number had increased to 2,000,000. In particular, road construction was expanding at a very rapid pace. This was part of Hitler's war preparations as Germany needed a state-of-the-art highway system in order to be able to move troops and materials quickly. As a side effect, cars and other forms of motorized transport became increasingly attractive to the population, therefore the German car industry also experienced a boom in the 1930s.\n\nWhile the ideology of the Nazi Party was founded on the principle of inequality between races and advocated a war of racial conquest, it also promised social welfare and other benefits for racially pure, able-bodied Germans who supported its aims. As such, the Nazi German government established an agency called the Nationalsozialistische Volkswohlfahrt (NSV, National Socialist People's Welfare) to achieve its goal of racially directed social welfare. Hitler instructed NSV chairman Erich Hilgenfeldt to “see to the disbanding of all private welfare institutions”, in an effort to direct who was to receive social benefits. Under this selective welfare structure, Nazi administrators were able to mount an effort towards the “cleansing of their cities of ‘asocials’”, who were deemed unworthy of receiving assistance for various reasons. Underlining the importance of nationality and race, Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi propaganda minister, claimed in 1944: “We and we alone [the Nazis] have the best social welfare measures. Everything is done for the nation”.\n\nIn 1936, military spending in Germany exceeded 10% of GNP (higher than any other European country at the time). Military investment also exceeded civilian investment from 1936 onwards. Armaments dominated government expenditures on goods and services. That year also represented a turning point for German trade policy as world prices for raw materials (which constituted the bulk of German imports) were on the rise. At the same time, world prices for manufactured goods (Germany's chief exports) were falling. The result was that Germany found it increasingly difficult to maintain a balance of payments. A large trade deficit seemed almost inevitable, but Hitler found this prospect unacceptable. Thus Germany, following Italy's lead, began to move away from partially free trade in the direction of economic self-sufficiency.\n\nUnlike Italy, Germany did not strive to achieve full autarky, even though in May 1933 Hitler's regime had defaulted unilaterally on Germany's foreign debt along with a decree for sweeping capital controls that made it difficult to engage in foreign trade. Hitler was aware of the fact that Germany lacked reserves of raw materials and full autarky was therefore impossible, thus he chose a different approach. The Nazi government tried to limit the number of its trade partners and—when possible—only trade with countries within the German sphere of influence. A number of bilateral trade agreements were signed between Germany and other European countries (mostly countries located in Southern and South-Eastern Europe) during the 1930s. The German government strongly encouraged trade with these countries but strongly discouraged trade with any others.\n\nBy the late 1930s, the aims of German trade policy were to use economic and political power to make the countries of Southern Europe and the Balkans dependent on Germany. The German economy would draw its raw materials from that region and the countries in question would receive German manufactured goods in exchange. Already in 1938, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece transacted 50% of all their foreign trade with Germany. Throughout the 1930s, German businesses were encouraged to form cartels, monopolies and oligopolies, whose interests were then protected by the state. In his book, \"Big Business in the Third Reich\", Arthur Schweitzer states:\nIn the same book, Schweitzer details the triangular power structure that existed between the Nazi Party, big business and the generals in 1936. Within a few years of Hitler's accession, \"middle-class socialism\" had been defeated, collective bargaining had been banned and unions had been outlawed—large companies were favored over small businesses. Shortly after Hitler became chancellor, Germany refused to pay its reparation payments as was mandated in the Versailles Treaty. It also diverted large sums of money to rearmament, which violated that treaty. This had the support of the generals and the business community since their profits were guaranteed on these orders.\n\nUnder Hjalmar Schacht, a policy was introduced whereby certain nations who traded with Germany (such as the United States) had to deal with special banks. Foreign currency was deposited in these institutions and Americans were paid for their goods (especially raw materials) in \"scrips\" that could only be redeemed for German goods in kind. These scrips soon declined in value as they were not truly fungible and many were used by travellers to Germany in the mid-1930s. Schacht was able to build up foreign currency reserves for later use.\n\nBig business developed an increasingly close partnership with the Nazi government as it became increasingly organized. Business leaders supported the government's political and military goals and in exchange the government pursued economic policies that maximized the profits of its business allies.\n\nInitially, the outbreak of World War II did not bring about any large changes in the German economy. Germany had spent six years preparing for war and a large portion of the economy was already devoted to military production. Unlike most other governments, the Nazis did not increase direct taxes by any significant amount in order to fund the war. The top income tax rate in 1941 was 13.7% in Germany as opposed to 23.7% in Great Britain.\n\nDuring the war, as Germany acquired new territories (either by direct annexation or by installing puppet governments in defeated countries), these new territories were forced to sell raw materials and agricultural products to German buyers at extremely low prices. Hitler's policy of \"Lebensraum\" (\"living space\") strongly emphasized the conquest of new lands in the East and the exploitation of these lands to provide cheap goods to Germany. However, in practice the intensity of the fighting on the Eastern Front and the Soviet scorched earth policy meant that the Germans found little they could use. On the other hand, a large quantity of goods flowed into Germany from conquered lands in the West. For example, two-thirds of all French trains in 1941 were used to carry goods to Germany. Norway lost 20% of its national income in 1940 and 40% in 1943.\n\nFrom 1939 to 1941 and while the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact was in effect, there was trade between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union provided raw materials and Germany provided finished industrial goods. In the first year, Nazi Germany received \"one million tons of cereals, half a million tons of wheat, 900,000 tons of oil, 100,000 tons of cotton, 500,000 tons of phosphates\" and at least one million tons of soybeans. Some of the Nazi–Soviet trade included machine tools for manufacturing munitions, the cruiser \"Luetzow\", \"plans of the \"Bismarck\", heavy naval guns and other gear and some thirty of Germany's latest warplanes, including the Messerschmitt fighters 109 and 110 and the Ju-88 dive bombers\". In addition, the Soviets received diesel engines, generators, turbines, locomotives and “samples of German artillery, tanks, explosives, chemical-warfare equipment”. This trade ended abruptly in June 1941, when Germany invaded the Soviet Union.\n\nEven before the war, Nazi Germany maintained a supply of slave labour. This practice started from the early days of labour camps of \"undesirables\" (), such as the homeless, homosexual and criminals as well as political dissidents, communists, Jews and anyone that the regime wanted out of the way. As the war progressed, the use of slave labour experienced massive growth. Prisoners of war and civilian \"undesirables\" were brought in from occupied territories. Hundreds of thousands of Poles, Jews, Slavs and other conquered peoples were used as slave labourers by German corporations such as Thyssen, Krupp, IG Farben and even Fordwerke—a subsidiary of the Ford Motor Company. By 1944, slave labour made up one quarter of Germany's entire work force and the majority of German factories had a contingent of prisoners. The Nazis also had plans for the deportation and enslavement of Britain's adult male population in the event of a successful invasion.\n\nThe proportion of military spending in the German economy began growing rapidly after 1942 as the Nazi government was forced to dedicate more and more of the country's economic resources to fighting a losing war, therefore civilian factories were converted to military use and placed under military administration. By late 1944, almost the entire German economy was dedicated to military production. At the same time, Allied bombings were destroying German factories and cities at a rapid pace, leading to the final collapse of the German war economy in 1945.\n\nFrancisco Franco, dictator of Spain from the Spanish Civil War in the 1930s until his death in 1975, based his economic policies on the theories of national syndicalism as expounded by the Falange (Spanish for \"phalanx\"), the Spanish Fascist party founded in 1933 by José Antonio Primo de Rivera, which was one of Franco's chief supporters during his bid for power.\n\nDuring and after the Spanish Civil War, Franco and the Falange created a corporative system based on the Italian model. Economic liberalism was replaced with economic intervention according to the wishes of the corporations, which also set prices and wages. Combined with autarky and in the absence of Marshall Plan aid after the Second World War, Spain's post-war economic growth stagnated. The Spanish corporative system was less successful than the Italian experience. At one point, the Spanish farmers' corporation created a massive bread shortage by setting the price too low. As a result, bread production was abandoned in favour of other, more profitable goods. Although the aim of this policy was to make bread accessible to the poorest among the population, the opposite occurred and a black market emerged.\n\nAs in Italy, wages were set by the state in negotiations between officially recognized workers' syndicates and employers' organizations, with the state as mediator. During the Spanish Republic, workers' groups had aligned with the communists, anarchists or other republican forces. However, Franco's regime tended to favour the interests of large businesses despite its syndicalist rhetoric. In response, workers created illegal syndicates and organized strikes, which usually were repressed brutally by Franco's police state.\n\nIn 1954, Franco abandoned the corporative system in favour of free market reforms implemented by economic technocrats. Many of these technocrats were members of Opus Dei, a Roman Catholic lay group to which Franco had given powerful positions within the Ministry of Finance and Economics. The reforms of the 1950s were a huge success and Spain experienced a period of rapid economic growth known as the \"Spanish Miracle\", continuing until Franco's death in 1975. During this period, tourism became an important part of the Spanish economy. Although the corporatist organs and rhetoric from the earlier years of the Franco regime were maintained, they now played a secondary role. Spain's economy was further liberalized by the Spanish transition to democracy following Franco's death.\n\nDuring Franco's years, Spanish law discriminated strongly against married women. Without her husband's approval, referred to as the \"permiso marital\", a wife was prohibited from almost all economic activities, including employment, ownership of property or even travel away from home. The law also provided for less stringent definitions of such crimes as adultery and desertion for husbands than it did for wives. Significant reforms of this system were begun shortly before Franco's death and they have continued at a rapid pace since then. The \"permiso marital\" was abolished in 1975; laws against adultery were cancelled in 1978; and divorce was legalized in 1981. During the same year, the parts of the civil code that dealt with family finances were also reformed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3210893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3210893", "title": "Emission Reduction Unit", "text": "Emission Reduction Unit\n\nThe emission reduction unit (ERU) is an emissions unit issued under a Joint Implementation project in terms of the Kyoto Protocol. An ERU represents a reduction of greenhouse gases under the Joint Implementation mechanism, where it represents one tonne of equivalent reduced. \n\nTo allow comparison between the different effects of gases on the environment, scientists have defined multipliers for gases that compare their greenhouse potency (global warming potential) relative to that of carbon dioxide.\n\nOne example of a Joint Implementation project resulting in an emission reduction unit, is the production of biogases by landfill sites. These gases consist of mainly methane which escapes to the atmosphere if it is not collected. The main reason for dealing with methane is that it has a 100-year global warming potential multiplier of 25 compared to carbon dioxide (i.e. has 25 times the greenhouse potency). Collection of methane is usually accompanied by its combustion. Burning one tonne of methane produces nearly 3 tonnes of , thus reducing its greenhouse effect by (25-3=22) ERU.\n\nIn December 2012, ERU prices crashed to a low of 15 euro cents before recovering to 23c after news that EU’s Climate Change Committee was to vote on a ban of ERUs from countries that have not signed up to a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol. \n\nIn January 2013, \"Bloomberg\" reported that emission reduction unit prices declined 89 percent in 2012 \n"}
{"id": "7514302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7514302", "title": "EudraGMP", "text": "EudraGMP\n\nEudraGMP is the database of the European Community of manufacturing authorisations and of certificates of good manufacturing practice. The EudraGMP system was launched in April 2007, for use by European Medicines Regulators. Access for the general public, via Internet, is available since 2009 using the URL : http://eudragmp.ema.europa.eu.\n\nEudraGMP is part of the EU telematics strategy, which has been conceived in order to meet the strategic objectives of the European Commission, the European Medicines Agency and the Member State competent authorities.\n\nEudraGMP is part of a larger database known as EudraGMDP, which contains information on:\n\nThe public database allows the general public access to information regarding manufacturing inspections completed by regulatory authorities from all European Economic Area (EEA) countries. Prior to the enactment of the EudraGMP database, information only came from a limited number of European countries. The European regulatory authorities update the database continuously and expect it to grow extensively over the next few years as more “GMP certificates are imported each year.” \nThe database serves as a quick reference for checking the good manufacturing practice (GMP) of a potential contract manufacturer. One can search by the “company name, location, or certificate number and find details on the types of products or activities that the company conducts and the date of the most recent GMP inspection.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4519948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4519948", "title": "Fabrizio Comencini", "text": "Fabrizio Comencini\n\nFabrizio Comencini (born 6 November 1953 in Garda) is an Italian politician.\n\nComencini started his political career in the Italian Social Movement (MSI), for which he was elected to the Regional Council of Veneto in 1985 and 1990. In the early 1990s, during his second term in the Council, he switched to Liga Veneta–Lega Nord. In 1994 he was elected secretary of the party and in 1995 he was re-elected to the Council. During his tenure as leader, Lega Nord had its best electoral result so far in Veneto and in any other region, scoring 29.7% of the vote at the 1996 general election.\n\nIn 1998 Comencini broke with Umberto Bossi in the name of Venetian nationalism as opposed to Padanian nationalism. Although he commanded a majority of Liga Veneta's regional councillors (7 out of 9: Ettore Beggiato, Alessio Morosin, Mariangelo Foggiato, Alberto Poirè, Michele Munaretto, Franco Roccon and himself), Comencini was not supported by the majority of Liga Veneta who supported Gian Paolo Gobbo instead. He thus resigned as national secretary and formed a new party called Liga Veneta Repubblica (later Veneti d'Europa, Liga Fronte Veneto and finally, again, Liga Veneta Repubblica).\n\nMost recently, Comencini ran in the 2015 regional election for Independence We Veneto (in support of Luca Zaia's second term as President), but was not elected.\n"}
{"id": "55913699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55913699", "title": "Federalization of Yemen", "text": "Federalization of Yemen\n\nThe federalization of Yemen or the Federal Republic of Yemen was the final outcome of the National Dialogue Conference, the Dialogue members also agreed that Yemen would be transformed into a 6-region federal system. The regions would be Azal, Saba, Janad and Tihama in the north, Aden and Hadramawt in the south. Sana’a will have a special status and not be part of any region. Aden, the former southern capital, would also have a special status but will be part of Aden region. Azal, Saba, Janad and Tihama would be northern provinces where Aden and Hadramawt would be southern. The proposal also includes changing the title of \"Governorate\" to \"state\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50446794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50446794", "title": "Gender-based price discrimination in the United States", "text": "Gender-based price discrimination in the United States\n\nGender-based price discrimination is a form of economic discrimination that occurs when one gender is charged a different price than another gender for identical goods or services. Race and class-based price discrimination also exists. Acts of discrimination often have legal ramifications, but a study of gender-based price discrimination first looks at gendered price disparities. From there, the question of whether gendered price disparities prove an intent to discriminate or constitute illegal discrimination can become a legal inquiry that is developed by examining the law of the applicable jurisdiction. Gender-based price discrimination is typically disapproved of, but not universally. In the United States, a few states have adopted statutes forbidding gender-based price discrimination, but these policies are largely unenforced.\n\nTypically, price disparities negatively affect women more often than men. For example, a study by the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs found that, on average, women's products cost seven percent more than similar products for men. Gender-based pricing exists in many industries, including insurance, dry cleaning, hairdressing, nightclubs, clothing, and personal care products. The legality of gender-based price discrimination in matching markets has been of debate in the United States and European Union since the 1990s. The debate is centered around whether gender-based pricing is a form of gender discrimination. In other words, instead of prices being based on a market-based analysis of the effects on competition, gender-based pricing may instead reinforce negative stereotypes about both women and men in matching markets.\n\nGender-based price disparities have been found in personal care products, retail sales, and consumer service prices. They also exist in the pricing of insurance, such as health insurance and car insurance. Other studies suggest that gender-based price disparities often occur when negotiating and purchasing new cars.\n\nDiscount prices based on gender may also be a type of gender-based price discrimination. A common gender-based price discount is a \"Ladies' night\" promotion, in which female patrons pay less for alcoholic drinks or a lower cover charge than male patrons do.\n\nConsumption taxes on certain products but not others have also been viewed a form of gender-based price disparity. For example, in the United States, Australia, and the United Kingdom, tampons are often subjected to a consumption tax, while related products such as condoms, lubricant, and several other medical items are exempt from the tax.\n\nOpponents of the enforcement of laws against gender-based pricing make two arguments. They suggest that courts should dismiss cases involving gender-based pricing because the injury to the plaintiff is so inconsequential that they should not be entitled to relief. They also point to economic efficiency as a justification. In response to the economic efficiency argument, scholars suggest that gender-based pricing should be prohibited on moral grounds, stating that gender should not be used as a proxy for other characteristics, especially when based on stereotypes.\n\nGender research has heavily focused on the interaction between gender and the economy. Typically, research in this area involves the issue of the gender pay gap. Another aspect of gender research in economics is the less studied issue of gender-based price disparities in the cost of goods and services across different industries. Scholars suggest that the existence of gendered price disparities contribute to gender inequality by creating an economic burden that does not exist for the other gender and by reinforcing gender roles in the marketplace.\n\nThere are a number of different studies on the price disparities between personal care products and services that are marketed towards females and males. For example, the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs (DCA) conducted a study of prices of goods in New York City across five industries, including personal care products. Other universities and academics have also studied the prices in personal care products and services.\n\nWhile studies have shown significant price disparities in personal care products between men and women, gendered price disparities across personal care services has been inconsistent. A recent study titled \"Cost of Doing Femininity\" examined two areas of personal care services that had directly comparable prices between men and women: hair salons and dry cleaners. The study found that only 15 out of 100 randomly selected hair salons had the same prices for both men and women, and none of the salons charged women less than men. Dry cleaning prices depended on the type and amount of fabric, with more embellishments corresponding with higher prices. This price factor, however, tended to negatively impact women more often than men because women's garments are more likely to be embroidered or be made of delicate fabric.\n\nGendered price disparities in personal care products are more apparent than in personal care services and across other industries. By and large, the price disparities in personal care products are notably higher than in other industries and cost women around 13 percent more than men. This disparity is especially significant considering women purchase these products more regularly than men. Prices for hair products, followed by razors, cost the most for women - typically costing women almost 50 percent more than men.\n\nPrice disparities in hair salon services between men and women are thought to be justifiable because women's hair is often longer and more complicated to maintain and cut. In recent years, however, this stereotype has changed. Men are often experimenting with their hair, including hair loss treatment and hair color. While women may still spend a considerable amount for hair color and other treatments, many women prefer basic haircuts. Additionally, salon-quality hair styling tools are readily available and easy to use at home.\n\nGendered price disparities for hair salon services have also been documented in different locations across the United States and Europe. The California Assembly Office of Research conducted a survey of five large California cities and found that forty percent of the hair salons charged women, on average, five dollars more than men for a standard haircut. Gendered price disparities in haircut prices also has been found in New York City: Of 199 hair salons examined, nearly 48 percent of hair-cutters charged women more than men for a simple haircut.\n\nThe price disparities between men and women in the vehicle insurance market is one of the few instances where men typically pay more than women for identical products and services. Unlike in the markets for retail or personal care products, however, these gender-based price differences can be rationally explained. Because men are believed in general to behave in more risky behaviors than women (driving at excessive speeds, driving recklessly, driving under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol, etc.), the cost of insuring men is greater than the cost of insuring women, and this cost difference is reflected in insurance rates calculated in part on the gender of the insured.\n\nDespite vehicle insurance typically costing men more, there is some research to suggest that women actually pay more under the fixed annual pricing system because men drive more miles and are involved in twice as many accidents.\n\nFor most Americans, new car purchases are their largest consumer investment after buying a home. In 1991, Harvard Law Professor Ian Ayres examined whether the process of negotiating for a new car disadvantaged women and minorities. The study was conducted in the Chicago area and involved 180 price negotiations at 90 dealerships. The study's testers included individuals of different races and genders and each was instructed to use the same negotiation strategy. Each tester entered a car dealership and bargained to purchase a new car. The results of the study concluded that white males received significantly better prices than non-whites and women. For example, white women paid forty percent more than white men, and black women paid more than three times the price negotiated by white men.\n\nWhile men engage in more risky health-related behaviors (smoking, drinking excessively, etc.), this is not reflected in the health insurance market, as women tend to pay more than men. Although the Affordable Care Act made gender-based differences in premium prices illegal, this disparity has continued to exist. One explanation for this is that women make more use of the health care services made available to them by their insurance. For example, women tend to use maternity care or take their children to the doctor.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States has not enunciated a workable evidentiary standard to govern claims of subtle and unconscious forms of discrimination. Further, there is no general federal law explicitly prohibiting gender-based price discrimination. Because many pricing decisions are made by private businesses, the 14th Amendment generally does not apply, and sex was not included as a protected class under federal public accommodation law. As a result, these issues tend to be left to the states.\n\nIn recent years, an increasing number of states and localities have enacted laws and policies prohibiting gender-based price discrimination in public accommodations, such as nightclubs and bars. For example, courts in California, Florida, Pennsylvania, Iowa, and Maryland have consistently ruled against gender-based pricing. However, other states such as Illinois, Washington, and Michigan, have adopted a case-by-case approach on the issue.\n\nCalifornia passed the Unruh Civil Rights act in 1995, making California the first state to enact legislation to protect against gender-based price discrimination. California Assemblywoman Jackie Speier introduced the Gender Tax Repeal Act to \"try to address the persistent problem of gender-based discrimination in the sale of services related to haircuts, laundry, dry cleaning, and alterations.\" The law was enacted to prohibit businesses from charging different prices for services based on a customer's gender. The Gender Tax Repeal Act provided for civil actions in which courts may award a minimum of $1,000 or up to three times the amount of actual damages in addition to attorney's fees. The enactment of the Gender Tax Repeal Act aided in combating gender-based price discrimination in the pricing of services, but did not prohibit such price differentials with respect to products.\n\nOn January 21, 2016, California State Senator Ben Hueso introduced Senate Bill 899 to extend prohibiting gender-based price discrimination from services to products. Senate Bill 899 proposed to prohibit businesses from price discriminating with respect to goods of \"similar or like kind\" based on a customer's gender. On March 31, 2016, Senator Hueso introduced amendments clarifying that businesses may charge more for a product if there are legitimate differences in costs of labor, materials, or tariffs. The amendments also clarified that \"substantially similar\" products included products of the same brand, share the same functional components, and share 90 percent of the same materials and ingredients. Senate Bill 899, sponsored by Consumer Federation of California, received support from the American Civil Liberties Union of California, California Public Interest Research Group, Planned Parenthood Affiliates of California, and Women's Foundation of California. On April 12, 2016, the Senate Judiciary Committee voted 5-1 in favor of Senate Bill 899 and will advance the bill with a Senate Hearing.\n\nIn 1997, Miami-Dade County in Florida passed an ordinance prohibiting businesses from charging different prices for products or services based solely on the customer's gender. However, businesses are permitted to charge a different price for products or services that involve more time, difficulty, or cost. Miami-Dade County's ordinance also permits limited discount programs based on gender. For instance, a business may advertise \"Ladies Free on Friday Night\", as long as men are not prevented from patronizing the business.\n"}
{"id": "12158339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12158339", "title": "George W. Taylor (professor)", "text": "George W. Taylor (professor)\n\nGeorge W. Taylor (July 10, 1901 – December 15, 1972) was a notable professor of industrial relations at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, and is credited with founding the academic field of study known as industrial relations. He served in several capacities in the federal government, most notably as a mediator and arbitrator. During his career, Taylor settled more than 2,000 strikes.\n\nIn 1967, he helped draft the New York state civil service law which legalized collective bargaining in that state but which also banned strikes by public employees—legislation widely known today as the Taylor Law.\n\nTaylor was born in the Kensington industrial neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on July 10, 1901. His uncle owned a textile mill, and his father, Harry Taylor, was a superintendent at a hosiery mill. He graduated from Frankford High School in 1919. Taylor intended to go into the mills after graduating from high school, but his high school principal persuaded him to attend college instead.\n\nIn 1921, Taylor graduated with a bachelor's degree in economics from the Wharton School. His senior thesis was on the history and overdevelopment of the hosiery industry in Pennsylvania. He became a professor in the department of business administration at Albright College, and obtained his doctorate in economics from the Wharton School in 1929.\n\nIn 1926, George Taylor introduced the Hemline index theory, which holds that hemlines on women’s dresses fluctuate with the economy, measured by stock prices or gross domestic product. The \"theory\" still receives regular attention in the media and, in 2010, some academic validation.\n\nIn 1930, Taylor received an appointment as an assistant professor at his alma mater, the Wharton School. In his first years as a professor at Wharton, Taylor founded the academic field of industrial relations, which covered labor arbitration, mediation, and other forms of alternative dispute resolution. In his lifetime, he became known as the \"Father of American Arbitration.\"\n\nTeaching was Taylor's first love throughout his life. He often said that he \"had chalk in his veins\" and hated to leave the classroom. He was recognized as a dynamic speaker and excellent lecturer, and remained a highly sought-after public speaker even at the time of his death.\n\nTaylor was named a full professor in 1944, and was eventually named to the Gaylord P. and Mary Louise Harnwell Professor of Industry. Upon his retirement from active teaching in 1964, the University of Pennsylvania named the endowed chair after him. He continued to lecture and speak to students on campus until his death in 1972.\n\nIn 1928, Taylor received his first commission as an industrial relations specialist. His thesis on the hosiery industry in Pennsylvania led Emil Rieve, president of a Pennsylvania hosiery workers' union, to seek his help as an umpire in an organizing dispute. In 1929, he settled his first strike, at the Aberle Hosiery Mill near Reading, Pennsylvania.\n\nTaylor received national acclaim for helping mediate an end to a strike at Apex Hosiery in Philadelphia in 1932. Under the terms of the 1931 collective bargaining agreement between the Full Fashioned Hosiery Manufacturers of America and the American Federation of Hosiery Workers, he was appointed \"impartial chairman\" for the independent arbitration committee established by the contract. The position became a model for similar collective bargaining clauses nationwide. During his 10 years as impartial chairman, Taylor established a national minimum wage in the hosiery industry.\n\nIn 1935, after a period of service to the federal government, Taylor become impartial chairman for a labor arbitration committee established by the Men's Clothing Manufacturers' Association and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. He held that position until 1961.\n\nBy 1940, Taylor had settled roughly 1,400 labor disputes without a strike.\n\nIn 1941, Taylor served as an impartial arbitrator between the United Auto Workers (UAW) and General Motors. During this time, he became close with UAW president Walter Reuther.\n\nTaylor entered federal service again in 1951. He left it in 1952, and although he continued to teach at the Wharton School he also was the official arbitrator of internal Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) jurisdictional disputes. He served in this capacity for three years, and his work became a model for handling inter-union disputes after the American Federation of Labor (AFL) and CIO merged in 1955.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Taylor was credited with coining a number of common collective bargaining terms, including \"tandem,\" \"escalator clause,\" \"productivity improvement,\" \"interplant inequity,\" and \"ability to pay.\"\n\nTaylor was a strong advocate of private sector collective bargaining, but believed that governments had the right to significantly restrict collective bargaining and the right to strike in the public sector. He was a strong advocate of the National Labor Relations Act, and vehemently condemned the Taft-Hartley Act as poor public policy and an improper restriction on the right to strike. In many important labor disputes, however, Taylor often took positions opposed to those advocated by labor unions because Taylor believed strikes should serve the public and not a private good. As he once noted:\n\nIn 1933, Taylor was appointed chairman for the Philadelphia regional office of the National Labor Board. Later that year, President Franklin D. Roosevelt appointed him assistant deputy administrator of the National Recovery Administration. Taylor left federal service in 1935, although he continued to serve as an advisor to the Fair Labor Standards Administration throughout the 1930s.\n\nPresident Roosevelt appointed Taylor vice chairman of the National War Labor Board in 1942. He became the board's chairman in 1945. In July 1942, Taylor wrote the wage decision popularly known as the \"Little Steel formula\" which gave workers employed by smaller steel companies only modest pay increases for the duration of the war. The board applied the \"Little Steel formula\" to nearly every American industry during World War II. The decision was severely criticized by organized labor, but Taylor considered it to be one of the most significant, well-written, and well-founded policy decisions he ever made.\n\nPresident Harry S. Truman named Taylor secretary of the National Labor-Management Conference in 1946. The same year, Truman appointed Taylor chairman of the Advisory Board of the Office of War Mobilization and Reconversion. Taylor also served as a consultant to the Commission on Reorganization of the Executive Branch from 1948 to 1949.\n\nIn 1951, Truman appointed Taylor director of the Wage Stabilization Board.\n\nDuring the steel strike of 1959, President Dwight Eisenhower appointed Taylor chairman of the Presidential Board of Inquiry created when Eisenhower invoked the cooling-off provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act. Despite Taylor's role in helping Eisenhower win a court injunction stopping the strike for 90s days, Taylor became involved in helping end the strike. He assisted United Steelworkers of America counsel Arthur Goldberg and Kaiser Steel heir Edgar Kaiser negotiate an agreement which later formed the basis for the national collective bargaining agreement which settled the strike.\n\nIn 1961, President John F. Kennedy appointed Taylor to the President's Advisory Committee on Labor Management Policy. During his tenure on the committee, Taylor helped craft a long-term contractual solution to a series of wildcat strikes which had plagued the aerospace industry since World War II. Taylor also resolved railroad disputes in 1964 and 1967, and in 1968 settled the long-running copper mining strike.\n\nIn 1961, Taylor led a commission appointed by New York City Mayor Robert F. Wagner, Jr. which crafted a settlement that led to collective bargaining for teachers in New York City. The subsequent election led to the founding of the United Federation of Teachers (UFT). In 1965, Taylor led a fact-finding board which the UFT used to win its first collective bargaining agreement with the city.\n\nBut Taylor's most famous (and, according to New York state labor leaders, notorious) act as a public official was his role in crafting New York's \"Taylor Law.\" In the wake of the formation of the UFT and (more immediately) a 1966 New York City transit strike, Governor Nelson Rockefeller appointed a Committee on Public Employment Relations to study the state's public employee collective bargaining laws. Taylor led the other five members of the panel in proposing new legislation which gave New York's public employees significantly stronger collective bargaining rights. On April 25, 1967, Gov. Rockefeller signed the Public Employees Fair Employment Act into law. Popularly known as the \"Taylor Law,\" the Act is considered a model for public sector labor legislation. The law established collective bargaining rights for state-employed workers, and set up procedures and mechanisms for county and local public workers to establish unions and bargain collectively.\n\nTwo aspects of the law, however, drew harsh criticism from organized labor. Section 210 prohibits public employees from striking, and fines the union double the amount of each striking employee's salary for each day the strike lasts. Section 201, Part 4, of the law prohibits employers from negotiating benefits provided by a public retirement fund or providing income to public sector retirees.\n\nPresident Lyndon B. Johnson awarded Taylor the Presidential Medal of Freedom on December 3, 1963.\n\nOn January 5, 1995, Taylor was inducted into the U.S. Department of Labor Labor Hall of Fame for his contributions to industrial relations.\n\nDuring his life, Taylor became close friends with many of the most important labor and government officials of his day: Frances Perkins, Cyrus Ching, George Meany, Philip Murray, Clark Kerr, Walter Heller, Henry J. Kaiser, John L. Lewis, George Schultz, John Dunlop and W. Willard Wirtz.\n\nTaylor retired from the Wharton School in 1971. He died at his home in Philadelphia on the evening of December 15, 1972. He was survived by his wife, the former Edith Ayling; he had no children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935307", "title": "Home Recording Rights Coalition", "text": "Home Recording Rights Coalition\n\nThe Home Recording Rights Coalition is a non-profit advocacy organization in the U.S., whose mission is to protect the rights of consumers to view, listen to, and record radio and television broadcasts.\n\nFounded in 1981 in response to the \"Sony Corp. of America v. Universal City Studios, Inc.\" case, the group has more recently urged the U.S. Congress and Federal Communications Commission to prevent for-profit corporations and their trade organizations (like the MPAA and RIAA) from eroding or even destroying the private, in-home fair use of new digital audio and video technologies, such as DTV, HDTV, DAB, DVD and others.\n\n\nRadio ripping\n"}
{"id": "4602120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4602120", "title": "Interest group liberalism", "text": "Interest group liberalism\n\nInterest group liberalism is Theodore Lowi's term for the clientelism resulting from the broad expansion of public programs in the United States, including those programs which were part of the \"Great Society.\"\n\nLowi's seminal book, first published in 1969, was titled \"The End of Liberalism\", and presented a critique of the role of interest groups in American government, arguing that \"any group representing anything at all, is dealt with and judged according to the political resources it brings to the table and not for the moral or rationalist strength of its interest.\" Lowi's critique stood out in sharp contrast to theories of pluralism, championed by Robert Dahl and others, which argued that interest groups provide competition and a necessary democratic link between people and government.\n\n"}
{"id": "28322168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28322168", "title": "International Network of Museums for Peace", "text": "International Network of Museums for Peace\n\nThe International Network of Museums for Peace (originally the International Network of Peace Museums) was established following a conference in Bradford in 1992. At this conference, for the first time, directors and curators of peace and anti-war museums worldwide came together. The loose network which emerged aimed to promote cooperation between peace museums and to stimulate the creation of new peace museums across the world.\n\nBetween 1992 and 2009, the network was very informal, sustained by occasional newsletters between international conferences. As the number of peace museums worldwide increased, however, the network needed to formalise its structures. Steps towards addressing this were taken at the Gernika conference of 2005, including changing the name of the organisation to the International Network of Museums for Peace (INMP).\n\nIn 2009 the INMP was established as a foundation (nonprofit) in The Hague and, with the support of the municipality, opened its secretariat and archive in a modern office near the Peace Palace in 2010. In 2011, the building in which the office is housed, was renamed to the Bertha von Suttner Building. Since 2014 the INMP, as an international NGO, has been granted special Consultative Status from the UN ECOSOC, and gained ANBI-status in the Netherlands. The foundation consists of a General Coordinator, ten international Executive Board members and twelve international members in the Advisory Committee. The secretariat office is managed by a part-time Secretariat Administrator.\n\nThe definition of Museums for Peace according to the INMP is non-profit educational institutions that promote a culture of peace through interpreting, collecting and displaying peace related material. They inform the public about peace and nonviolence using illustrations from the lives of individuals, the work of organizations, campaigns and historical events. Included are also peace related sites, centers and institutions which are involved in peace education through exhibitions, documentation and other related activities.\n\nSince 1992 the aims of the INMP have been \n\n1992: Bradford (UK)\n1995: Stadtschlaining (Austria)\n1998: Osaka & Kyoto (Japan)\n2003: Ostend (Belgium)\n2005: Gernika-Lumo (Spain)\n2008: Kyoto & Hiroshima (Japan)\n2010: Barcelona (Spain)\n2013: The Hague (Netherlands)\n2014: No Gun Ri (Korea)\n\n2017: Belfast (Northern Ireland)\n\nDiscover Peace in Europe\nThree year (2013-2015) European project with six European partners, funded by the European Commission - Lifelong Learning Programme 2007-2013. It is a project about peace trails in Berlin, Budapest, Manchester, Paris, The Hague, Torino and Vienna to make people aware of the importance of peace. The INMP is the organiser of Peace Trail The Hague.\nPeace Philanthropy - Then and Now. In the Footsteps of Andrew Carnegie\nAn international travelling exhibition to celebrate the centenary of the Peace Palace in The Hague (28 August 2013).\nA Picture for Peace\nAn international travelling exhibition based on the 2012 International Day of Peace youth photo competition by the United Network of Young Peacebuilders (UNOY Peacebuilders).\n\n1995: \"Peace Museums Worldwide\" (Geneva United Nations Publications on Peace; League of Nations Archives, Geneva, in association with the Department of Peace Studies, University of Bradford)\n1998: \"Peace Museums Worldwide\" (Geneva United Nations Publications on Peace; League of Nations Archives, Geneva, in association with the Department of Peace Studies, University of Bradford)\n2008: \"Museums for Peace Worldwide\" (Kyoto Museum for World Peace, Ritsumeikan University)\n1993 - 2002: \"International Network of Peace Museums Newsletter\" (Published by Give Peace a Chance Trust, Hertford, UK; Editorial Office: Department of Peace Studies, University of Bradford, UK)\n2010 - current: \"International Network of Museums for Peace Newsletter\" (Published by the International Network of Museums for Peace)\n\n2017: Conference Report from Belfast: https://www.inmp.net/conference-reports/\n\n"}
{"id": "18563832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18563832", "title": "Jean-Baptiste Chavannes (agronomist)", "text": "Jean-Baptiste Chavannes (agronomist)\n\nJean-Baptiste Chavannes (born 1947 in Haiti), educated as an agronomist.\n\nChavannes founded the Peasant Movement of Papay (MPP) in 1973 to teach Haitian principles of sustainable agriculture. The MPP has become one of the most effective peasant movements of Haiti's history, succeeding in terms of economic development, environmental protection and the survival of each.\n\nChavannes continues his work despite the political climate in Haiti, which remains unstable. He has been exposed to several assassination attempts during periods of political destabilization in Haiti. Death threats have forced into exile between 1993 and 1994. He received the Goldman Environmental Prize in 2005 for his work on forest protection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35133016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35133016", "title": "Jennifer Robinson (lawyer)", "text": "Jennifer Robinson (lawyer)\n\nJennifer Robinson (born 1981) is an Australian human rights lawyer and barrister with Doughty Street Chambers in London. Before coming to the Bar, she founded the Bertha Justice Initiative and is Director of Legal Advocacy for the Bertha Foundation in London. She is also an Adjunct Lecturer in Law at the University of Sydney Law School.\n\nRobinson is best known for her role as a long-standing member of the legal team defending Julian Assange and WikiLeaks. She has also provided legal assistance to activists from West Papua. In a 2012 profile in \"The Global Mail\", journalist Eric Ellis called her \"an eloquent activist for the world's downtrodden and disenfranchised\".\n\nRobinson grew up in Berry, New South Wales, and attended Bomaderry High School. She then attended the Australian National University, where she graduated with a double degree in Law and Asian Studies, specialising in international law, Indonesia and South East Asia. She was awarded the University Medal in Law and was a Distinguished Scholar in Asian Studies. During her time at the ANU, she also completed studies at the Universitas Gadjah Mada (UGM) in Yogyakarta, Indonesia. She speaks Indonesian and Malay.\n\nShe was a Rhodes Scholar at the University of Oxford, where she attended Balliol College and graduated with a Bachelor of Civil Law with Distinction and a Master of Philosophy in International Public Law.\n\nRobinson was called to the Bar in 2016 and joined Geoffrey Robertson QC's Doughty Street Chambers, having known Robertson since her period at Oxford University in the mid-2000s. They outlined the case for an Australian Bill of Rights, as well as a legal opinion on crimes against humanity in Iran. Robertson describes Robinson as \"exceptional in being able to understand the practicality of the case as well as being quite brilliant academically. That is why she is such a good lawyer. She is passionate about her clients but sensible enough to keep a certain distance in order to argue their case with power and objectivity\".\n\nFrom 2009, she worked at the London law firm of Finers Stephens Innocent LLP, where her practice was largely media defence, freedom of information and free speech litigation, acting for clients such as \"The New York Times\", CNN, Associated Press and Bloomberg News. She also provided international human rights advice, including on humanitarian issues in post-conflict Iraq, extraordinary rendition and international criminal law. Robinson has engaged in strategic free speech litigation before the UK Supreme Court, the European Court of Human Rights. She has challenged obscenity convictions in Indonesia.\n\nWith Geoffrey Robertson QC, she acted in the first application before the UK Supreme Court, popularly known as the \"alphabet soup\" case, where they were successful in overturning reporting restrictions in anti-terrorist asset freezing cases in Mohammed Jabar and Others v HM Treasury [2010] UK SC 1. She also acted in the first application, before the UK Supreme Court intervened on behalf of media defence organisations in the Max Mosley case before the European Court of Human Rights.\n\nInstructed by Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens and Sam Harris in 2009, she worked with Robertson on establishing the legal case that the Pope and the Vatican were responsible for crimes against humanity, as a result of widespread child sex abuse within the Catholic Church. This case was later submitted to the ICC Prosecutor by the Center for Constitutional Rights.\n\nRobinson advised \"The New York Times\" during its phone-hacking investigations in London, including its story about the extent of involvement of Andy Coulson, who became the press adviser to the UK Prime Minister, David Cameron. The newspaper's stories claimed phone hacking was not isolated to a few rogue journalists and that knowledge and approval of the practice went right up the chain to \"News of the World\" editors. Robinson began advising Julian Assange and WikiLeaks in October 2010.\n\nIn late 2011, she became Director of Legal Advocacy advising the Bertha Foundation, with the task of creating and developing a global human rights and public interest law program. The program aims to support organisations practicing public interest law and to promote movement lawyering, and provide a clear career track into public interest and human rights law for young lawyers. Robinson said, \"I’m really excited about the opportunity to inspire the next generation of human rights lawyers. Why be one human rights lawyer when you can inspire a whole new generation?\"\n\nIn May 2013, Robinson spoke at TEDx Sydney. Entitled \"Courage is Contagious\", her speech to an audience of over 2,500 informed about human rights issues and the political situation in West Papua through the lens of exiled leader Benny Wenda.\n\nMore recent cases include acting for the BBC World Service to take action against Iran for the persecution of BBC Persian staff and their families, the first time in BBC history that BBC journalists have appealed to the UN for their protection, and acting with French counsel for a group of NGOs from around the world in challenging the cross-jurisdictional impact of the right to be forgotten in Google v CNIL before the Conseil d'État and the European Court of Justice .\n\nRobinson began advising WikiLeaks in October 2010, and she remains a member of his legal team under the direction of Baltasar Garzon. She has defended Assange in extradition proceedings in London, advised WikiLeaks through the publication of secret American diplomatic cables and the Chelsea Manning (formerly Bradley Manning) proceedings and has travelled the world \"advocating for Assange's rights both at law and in principle, in the process becoming one of the most recognisable faces of WikiLeaks\".\n\nLawyers Rights Watch wrote a complaint to the US Government in 2010, \"alarmed by actions of US State Department Legal Advisor Harold Hongju Koh\" that had put Robinson \"in jeopardy and interfere with the right of her client Julian Assange, to be represented\". In correspondence with Robinson and Assange that was leaked to the press, the US State Department made a number of unsubstantiated claims against both Assange and Robinson, as his lawyer, which were denounced as being in breach of the UN Basic Principles on the Role of Lawyers, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Defenders and the American Bar Association Model Rules of Professional Conduct. Lawyers Rights Watch denounced that \"Mr. Koh [had] invited upon Ms Robinson the denunciation and possible violence already directed at her client. The intention to put Ms Robinson’s personal and professional safety at risk and to interfere with Mr. Assange’s right to be legally represented is inescapable.\"\n\nRobinson said Koh's actions were \"inappropriate\" and her law firm requested a public retraction. No answer was ever received.\n\nGovernment contractor HBGary listed her with journalist Glenn Greenwald as one of the targets of a \"strategic plan\" designed to undermine WikiLeaks’ operations in a leaked proposal entitled \"The WikiLeaks Threat\". The proposal was developed by HBGary Federal, provider of classified cybersecurity services to the Department of Defense and other US Government agencies, at the request of law firm Hunton and Williams acting on behalf of Bank of America. The plan states that without the support of individuals like Robinson, \"WikiLeaks would fold\" but that \"ultimately most of them if pushed will choose professional preservation over cause\". This included plans to use disinformation, create messages around actions of sabotage, work to discredit organisations and call out the errors, and to fuel groups feuding around WikiLeaks operations. These tactics have been described by some as illegal.\n\nNevertheless, Robinson has continued to be publicly critical of the US Government's handling of the Chelsea Manning case, as well as the investigation into Assange and WikiLeaks and, in particular, the secrecy surrounding both. She worked with the Center for Constitutional Rights in applying for greater public access to the Manning proceedings and confronted US Attorney-General Eric Holder about his legacy and his plans to prosecute Assange in early 2012. In response to her article about her encounter with Holder, American journalist Michael Hastings was critical of press reporting on Assange's case, said that Robinson \"has to do a reporter’s job as well\". In June 2013, \"The New York Times\" confirmed the existence of the grand jury investigation into Assange and WikiLeaks.\n\nIn 2002, Robinson worked as a volunteer at the Institute for Advocacy and Study of Human Rights (Elsham), a human rights organisation in West Papua, Indonesia until her stay was cut short by the first Bali bombings.\n\nRobinson also acts as a lawyer for the West Papuan independence leader Benny Wenda, having helped him gain political asylum in the UK in 2003, and has toured with him to the US, Australia, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea. She is also the co-founder of International Lawyers for West Papua.\n\nIn 2008 she was one of thirty lawyers named by the UK Attorney General as a National Pro Bono Hero. In 2013 she was named the inaugural Young Alumni of the Year by the Australian National University. \nRobinson is on the Executive Committee of the Commonwealth Law Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "23738907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23738907", "title": "Just Vision", "text": "Just Vision\n\nJust Vision is a non-partisan and religiously unaffiliated nonprofit organization that utilizes storytelling, media and public engagement campaigns to highlight Palestinian and Israeli grassroots leaders working to end the occupation and build a future of freedom, dignity and equality for all. Just Vision is based in East Jerusalem, New York and Washington DC.\n\nJust Vision creates strategic media including award-winning films, groundbreaking independent news and educational resources that reach tens of millions worldwide and garner press coverage from the world’s top journalists. \n\nJust Vision was founded in 2003 by Ronit Avni as a result of 2 years of research and over 475 interviews on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. The goal of the interviews was \"to find out what kind of support they needed to advance peace. The overwhelming answer was to become more visible. The pockets of nonviolent activists throughout the region need a space to link and promote their messages.\" The interviews eventually became the basis for Just Vision's films and dozens of interviews with Palestinian and Israeli grassroots leaders.\n\nJust Vision engages educators, activists, journalists and students, from refugee camps and women’s groups to universities and community centers. Just Vision's programming focuses on key themes such as: the strategic role of women’s leadership in movement building, the significance of unity across divides and the power and efficacy of nonviolent resistance.\n\nJust Vision covers stories of human and civil rights and grassroots organizing through its Hebrew-language news site, \"Local Call\" - שיחה מקומית (in partnership with +972 Magazine). Through bold investigative journalism, fresh analysis and nuanced reporting, Just Vision reaches millions of readers and capture the attention of top Israeli media outlets and political leaders.\n\nJust Vision works with students, community leaders, educators and thought leaders. Just Vision also engages influential institutions, from TED to the Aspen Institute to the White House. Just Vision's work has been highlighted in \"The New York Times\", \"NPR\", \"Charlie Rose\", \"The Washington Post\" and many more.\n\n\nSince its founding in 2003, Just Vision has consistently been recognized as a leader in the field of impact storytelling.\n\nJust Vision's team has been honored with dozens of awards including:\n"}
{"id": "189874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189874", "title": "Kent Hovind", "text": "Kent Hovind\n\nKent E. Hovind (born January 15, 1953) is an American Christian fundamentalist evangelist and tax protester. He is a controversial figure in the Young Earth creationist movement whose ministry focuses on denial of scientific theories in the fields of biology (evolution), geophysics, and cosmology in favor of a literalist interpretation of the Genesis creation narrative found in the Bible. Hovind's views, which combine elements of creation science and conspiracy theory, are dismissed by the scientific community as fringe theory and pseudo-scholarship. He has been criticized by Young Earth Creationist organizations like Answers in Genesis for his continued use of discredited arguments that have been abandoned by others in the movement.\n\nHovind established Creation Science Evangelism (CSE) in 1989 and Dinosaur Adventure Land in 2001 in Pensacola, Florida. He frequently spoke on Young Earth creationism in schools, churches, debates, and on radio and television broadcasts. His son Eric Hovind took over operation of CSE after Hovind began serving a ten-year prison sentence in January 2007 for federal convictions for failing to pay taxes, obstructing federal agents, and structuring cash transactions.\n\nIn a separate federal court case in early 2015, a jury found Hovind guilty of contempt of court in connection with a charge of disobeying a prior court order. The trial court, however, threw out the verdict and rendered a judgment of acquittal, concluding that Hovind could not have disobeyed that order.\n\nAt the age of 16, Hovind became a born-again Christian within the Independent Fundamental Baptist church. He married his wife Jo in 1973 and they had three children between 1977 and 1979. Between 1975 and 1988, Hovind served as an assistant pastor and teacher at three private Baptist schools, including one he started. In 1989, the family moved to Pensacola, Florida where Jo would attend Pensacola Christian College and would earn a bachelor's degree in music and master's degrees in music and sacred music.\n\nIn 1989, Hovind started Creation Science Evangelism. In 1998, he created his \"Dr. Dino\" web site and began producing articles and selling video tapes, books, and fossil replicas. Prior to his incarceration, Hovind had numerous speaking engagements (around 700 in 2004) at churches, private schools, and other venues each year, in addition to hosting a daily internet radio talk show and establishing \"Dinosaur Adventure Land\" in Pensacola, Florida. In 1999, his son Eric Hovind began traveling to present his arguments and seminars. Kent and Jo divorced in 2016.\n\nIn 1971, he graduated from East Peoria Community High School in East Peoria, Illinois. He entered the accredited Illinois Central College, then transferred to the unaccredited Midwestern Baptist College in 1972, attaining a Bachelor of Religious Education in 1974. In 1988 and 1991 respectively, Hovind received a master's degree and doctorate in Christian Education through correspondence from (also unaccredited) Patriot University in Colorado Springs, Colorado.\n\nHaving a website called \"Dr. Dino\" has provoked some academics to look closely at how Hovind presents his education and credentials. All his known degrees are from unaccredited institutions, and he has no training in paleontology. Barbara Forrest, a professor of philosophy, expert on the history of creationism and activist in the creation-evolution controversy, wrote that Hovind's lack of training makes academic discussion impossible and has said that his understanding of historical and scientific research is deficient. Patriot University is a diploma mill. Karen Bartelt, an organic chemistry professor who debated Hovind, examined Hovind's dissertation and found it is incomplete, contains numerous spelling errors, lacks references, shows flawed reasoning, and states that it does not present any original research.\n\nHovind established Creation Science Evangelism in 1989 to evangelize and teach creationism. In May 1999, his son Eric joined Creation Science Evangelism as a speaker, and his daughter Marlissa began training to become Hovind's secretary. That year, CSE merged with Faith Baptist Fellowship of Hawthorne, Florida, beginning a relationship that lasted until 2002. In 2003, with the aid of Glenn Stoll (a promoter of tax-avoidance schemes), Hovind set up a series of entities starting with \"an unincorporated association of pure trust\" on May 13, under which a corporation sole and several ministerial trusts were established starting on May 23. CSE properties were conveyed to the trusts which operated under business licenses from the \"Kingdom of Heaven\". Hovind is associated with the Unregistered Baptist Fellowship (UBF), a loosely affiliated group of roughly 100 churches which share a \"theology of Christian resistance\" to civil governments. Because the UBF would consider it an acknowledgement of government authority over the church, they reject the highly favorable 501(c)3 status, which makes donations tax deductible and exempts them from income tax, but not FICA taxes or employee income tax withholding. The UBF holds that governmental authority stops \"at the threshold of the church\", and Hovind has likened his ministry's status to that of the Vatican City State. When the federal government obtained a search warrant in 2004, an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) criminal investigator made the sworn statement that the organization did not have a business license and did not have tax-exempt status.\n\nHovind was convicted of 58 felony counts in November 2006 and sentenced to ten years in prison in January 2007; Eric Hovind announced that he would take over Creation Science Evangelism. In July 2007, God Quest Inc. was incorporated with Eric Hovind as president, and that November, God Quest Inc. filed in Florida to do business under the trade name Creation Science Evangelism. In June 2008, Eric announced that the CSE website would incorporate the CSE blog and change format allowing for \"only positive comments\" about Hovind and CSE, and in late 2011, Creation Science Evangelism's \"DrDino.com\" website was redirected to \"CreationToday.org\". The new website announced \"Creation Today is a ministry of God Quest, Inc.\" with focus on \"creation, apologetics and evangelism.\"\n\nIn 2001, Hovind started Dinosaur Adventure Land, a young Earth creationist theme park located behind Hovind's home in Pensacola, Florida. With the slogan, \"Where Dinosaurs and the Bible meet!\", the facility on roughly seven acres had an indoor \"Science Center\" and an outdoor space with a variety of simple dinosaur-themed rides and activities, each of which was tied to some religious message. For example, the \"Jumpasaurus\" was a trampoline next to a basketball hoop; children would have one minute to make as many baskets as they could, and the message was that you have to be coordinated to do more for Jesus. Annual attendance was 38,000. The park depicted humans and dinosaurs co-existing in the last 4,000–6,000 years and also contains a depiction of the Loch Ness monster. The Southern Poverty Law Center said the park also \"claims that a few small dinosaurs still roam the planet\". A 2004 \"Skeptical Inquirer\" article discussed a visit to Hovind's dinosaur theme park and concluded that the park is \"deceptive on many levels\". In Reports of the National Center for Science Education, George Allan Alderman described it as \"essentially a playground with a few exhibits, several fiberglass dinosaurs, a climbing wall, and a couple of buildings.\" He summarized it as \"shabby\".\n\nThe venture encountered legal issues when the owners did not get a building permit in 2002 (see below). In April 2006, Escambia County officials closed the building in question. In July 2009, the courts ruled that the properties could be seized and sold to satisfy Hovind's criminal penalties (see below). Eric Hovind kept the park and CSE operating throughout 2008, but in July 2009, a judge allowed the government seizure to proceed. In August 2009, Dinosaur Adventure Land's website announced it was closed, and CSE announced its re-opening as the \"Creation Store\" in November 2010.\n\nIn April 2016, Hovind discussed plans, for a new Dinosaur Adventure Land, which included an 80-foot-tall model dinosaur that would be the largest in the state, with commissioners in Conecuh County, Alabama. A supporter donated a 140-acre parcel of land in Lenox, Alabama, a former gravel pit. Volunteers started work by June 2016, and it opened in April 2018. , attendance exceeded 1000. Dinosaur Adventure Land is operated by a new 501(c)(3) organization, Creation Science Evangelism Ministries Inc. Its revenue streams are donations, book and DVD sales, and YouTube advertising. There is no admission charge and it operates without liability insurance. Facilities include a science center, a campground, a four-wheeler park, and church services including baptisms.\n\nHovind presented a version of young Earth creationism he calls the \"Hovind Theory\" in lectures and in the book \"Unmasking the False Religion of Evolution\". The Hovind Theory is entirely rejected in the scientific community, and its plausibility has been criticized by other young Earth creationists.\n\nIn the theory, dinosaurs and humans coexisted and \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" was a vegetarian prior to the fall of man. Hovind expands upon the early 20th-century vapor canopy concept of a protective shield that made Earth a relative paradise between the expulsion from Paradise and Noah's flood. The flood is expressed as a function of natural rather than miraculous processes. Noah's family and two of every kind of animal (including dinosaurs, which fit because babies were taken aboard and conditions allowed larger humans, making the ark's size, based on cubits, larger) boarded Noah's ark before an ice meteor impacted the Earth. Fragments from the meteor caused planetary rings and impact craters on the moon and other solar system bodies. The remainder were drawn to the North and South Poles by the Earth's magnetic field as cataclysmic snowfall which buried the mammoths standing up. The ice on the poles cracked the Earth's crust, releasing the \"fountains of the deep\". According to Hovind, these events caused an ice age, and made the Earth wobble around, collapsing the vapor canopy that protected it.\n\nIn the next few months of the flood, the dead animals and plants were buried, and became oil, coal, and fossils. The last months of the flood included geological instability, when the plates shifted, forming ocean basins and mountain ranges. The Grand Canyon was formed in a couple of weeks during this time.\n\nIn a rare case of open dissent within the movement over the substance of creation science, Answers in Genesis (AiG) published a 2002 position paper titled: \"Arguments we think creationists should NOT use\". After Hovind issued a point-by-point rebuttal, Carl Wieland, Ken Ham, and Jonathan Sarfati of AiG wrote that the claims made by Hovind were \"fraudulent\" and contained \"mistakes in facts and logic which do the creationist cause no good.\" In particular, AiG criticized Hovind for \"persistently us[ing] discredited or false arguments\" as well as \"fraudulent claims\" from Ron Wyatt, and described one of Hovind's claims as \"self-refuting\". Rancorous disagreements resulted in AiG splitting into U.S. and Australian chapters in 2005. The Australian branch, renamed Creation Ministries International (CMI), maintained content critical of Hovind on their website, while the U.S. branch, led by Ken Ham, removed it. In 2009, CMI said that they had relaxed their stance because CSE's revamped website had removed some of Hovind's claims to which they objected.\n\nGreg Neyman, an old-Earth creationist who runs the Old Earth Ministries website (renamed from Answers in Creation), writes that Hovind's articles about humans and dinosaurs coexisting are unsupported by evidence and that they \"embarrass the young earth creation science community as a whole\".\n\nTo the Orthodox Jewish creationist, Hovind's approach relies upon a strict literal reading of the King James translation. Where Jews interpret the Hebrew through Talmud and Midrash, Hovind relies on a direct reading of English. For example, Hovind claims that the word \"dinosaur\", which was introduced to English in 1841, refers to what previously had been called \"dragon\". Dragon is used where \"tannin\" () appears, but it means \"serpent\" or \"crocodile\".\n\nHovind contends that Darwinism produced \"Communism, Socialism, Nazism, abortion, liberalism and the New Age Movement\". He blamed the forced Cherokee resettlement on a belief in evolution, although the Trail of Tears preceded \"Origin of Species\" by roughly two decades. Hovind maintains that biology textbooks are lying in order to brainwash youth. He said, \"Satan is using evolution theory to make kids go to hell.\" Hovind claims he is not trying to eliminate evolution from schools, but says \"schools should teach both viewpoints.\" Hovind said that in order to forge \"missing link\" transitional fossils to support human evolution, the Smithsonian Institution has 33,000 sets of human remains in its basement, some taken alive (murder). In an interview prior to speaking at Kent State University, Hovind said \"You should have another rebellion here at Kent State and do it for the right reason,\" the reason being protesting evolution and referred to the Kent State shootings when he added, \"This time, don't get shot.\"\n\nIn the pseudoscience of cryptozoology, Hovind published and co-authored \"Claws, Jaws, and Dinosaurs\" with , another Creationist who has searched for dinosaurs in the Congo under the belief that discovering a cryptid would somehow undermine evolutionary theory and that dinosaurs were dragons. Dinosaur Adventure Land had displays about the existence of the Loch Ness monster and \"Beowulf\" as history rather than legend.\n\nPrior to his convictions, Hovind was a prolific debater. While Hovind campaigns against evolution, the level of support for evolution is essentially universal within the scientific community and academia, while support for creationism is minimal among scientists in general, and virtually nonexistent among those in the relevant fields: biology, paleontology, geology, \"etc\". C. A. Chinn and L. A. Buckland classify his debate style, common among Young Earth Creationists, as eristic: focused on winning by rhetoric rather than illuminating by careful examination of evidence.\n\nIn 1993, Hovind announced that he would be debating the renowned evolutionary biologist, Stephen Jay Gould, who had a longstanding opposition to debating Creationists and had turned down numerous challenges. When contacted about the announcement, Gould said he had never heard of Hovind, much less agreed to debate.\n\nIn May 2004, Michael Shermer debated Hovind in front of a predominantly creationist audience. Shermer claimed the exchange was \"not an intellectual exercise\", but rather \"an emotional drama,\" and concluded, \"Unless there is a subject that is truly debatable with a format that is fair, in a forum that is balanced, it only serves to belittle both the magisterium of science and the magisterium of religion.\" Massimo Pigliucci also debated Hovind, and expressed surprise at Hovind's ignorance of evolutionary theory. Pigliucci recalled Hovind tried \"to convince the audience that evolutionists believe humans came from rocks\" and subsequently \"evolved from bananas.\" William Reville, Director of Microscopy at University College Cork, wrote that Hovind's ideas are not rational or scientific because they are not testable. Hovind has repeatedly declined offers for written debates where his claims would be scrutinized by scientists, including his decline of a debate offer from Dave Thomas.\n\nDuring a debate with Farrell Till, Hovind said that Donald Johanson had uncovered the leg bones of Lucy at a different site over a mile away from the reported site, in a deeper stratum, quipping, \"I would like to know how fast the train was going that hit that chimpanzee.\" This was clearly contrary to the published statements by Johanson. After Hovind had been informed in 1993 that his statement was false, he agreed to stop using the claim. When he repeated the claim in 1995, he once more agreed he was in error.\n\nIn 1990, Hovind made a $10,000 offer to anyone who could meet a set of requirements he said would prove evolution, and he later raised the amount to $250,000. In 2007, Creation Science Evangelism removed the offer from its website.\n\nThe premises of Hovind's offer have been rejected both by scientists and fellow creationists as fundamentally flawed. Hovind's conditions would require a claimant to not only prove the theory of evolution, but also abiogenesis, astrophysics and cosmology, and additionally prove that no gods could possibly exist. The judges would be hand-picked without assurances that they would be unbiased or qualified to assess the merit of claims, and it is possible that no panel was convened when a claim was submitted. Some forms of evidence would be excluded prior to judging.\n\nAnswers in Genesis dismissed the challenge as a gimmick. A 2005 challenge on \"Boing Boing\" offered $250,000 to anyone who could prove that the Flying Spaghetti Monster (the deity of a parody religion constructed to make a point about giving time to alternative views on evolution) was not the father of Jesus.\n\nIn 1999, a Bradenton, Florida pastor asked the school board to consider adding Creationism to the curriculum. The school board chairman's actions raised issues when, in his capacity as a citizen, he helped fund a series of seminars by Hovind, but he was within ethical guidelines. More controversy was raised when a school employee was sent to videotape the lectures, although without intention for rebroadcast. Ultimately, there was no curriculum change.\n\nHovind was criticized for his involvement with Arkansas state Representative Jim Holt's Anti-Evolution Bill in 2001 (House Bill 2548). This bill \"would have required that when public schools refer to evolution that it be identified as an unproven theory.\" Opponents of the bill worried that it would subject Arkansas to the same type of derision that occurred when the state's balanced-treatment law was struck down in \"McLean v. Arkansas\". Holt called upon Hovind as an expert who \"testified for Holt before the State Agencies and Governmental Affairs Committee, alleging much of the information pertaining to evolution in our science textbooks is false.\"\n\nIn 2007, David Vitter added a $100,000 earmark in a U.S. Senate appropriations bill, directed towards the Louisiana Family Forum \"to develop a plan to promote better science education\". Their website included a document, A Battle Plan—Practical Steps to Combat Evolution' by Kent Hovind\". After a reporter's inquiries, the document, which called evolution \"not a harmless theory but a dangerous religious belief\" and blamed it for atrocities by Adolf Hitler, Joseph Stalin, and Pol Pot, was removed from their website. The earmark was withdrawn from the bill.\n\nThe most widely distributed antievolution work, \"Big Daddy?\", was first published in 1972 and revised several times; it is one of the controversial Chick tracts, comic strips intended to convert people to fundamentalist Christianity. Material from Hovind was incorporated into the 2000 revision.\n\nHovind has made controversial remarks regarding conspiracies, science, creation, equal rights, religion, and government. His presentations on creationism and evolution are a mix of Christian Fundamentalism and conspiracy theories. His creationist presentations have asserted that creationism is not taught in public schools due to a New World Order conspiracy, established by Satan and involving Ted Turner and Jane Fonda, the British Royal Family, the State of Israel, the American Civil Liberties Union (which he calls \"the American Communist Lawyers Union\"), U.S. government officials, business leaders, and social activists. In May 1999, he claimed \"the implementation of the NWO's world-domination plan was May 5, 2000.\"\n\nHovind has several conspiracy theories about the U.S. government. He has claimed that the U.S. government was behind the 9/11 attacks and the Oklahoma City bombing. Regarding UFOs, Hovind recommends books by conspiracy theorists who believe \"some UFO's are U.S. Government experiments with electrogravitic propulsion as opposed to jet propulsion, while others are Satanic apparitions.\" The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) criticized Hovind for referring followers to books by Irwin Schiff, a tax protester who has been convicted of tax evasion multiple times. The SPLC has criticized Hovind for \"point[ing] his followers to \"Citizens Rule Book\", popular among antigovernment 'Patriots', and to \"Media Bypass\", an antigovernment magazine with strong antisemitic leanings\", and for selling of books such as Des Griffin's \"Fourth Reich of the Rich\" and Peter Kershaw's \"In Caesar's Grip\", and recommending \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a well-known antisemitic hoax.\n\nHovind claims that the cyanide-releasing compound laetrile is a \"cancer cure\" which the U.S. government is conspiring to suppress and that diseases including HIV, Gulf war syndrome, Crohn's colitis, and rheumatoid arthritis and Alzheimer's were engineered by \"the money masters and governments of the world\" for the purpose of global economic domination. He has denounced democracy as \"evil and contrary to God's law\", and called global warming a communist conspiracy.\n\nIn his lectures, he claimed that the United States government was implanting pet-tracking microchips into people allowing them to be tracked by satellite, even though the transponder range made that impossible. On his website, Hovind associated the UPC bar code with the Mark of the Beast, and wrote that there were reports of people paying for groceries by having their hands scanned in 1999.\n\nOn September 16, 2007, the Rational Response Squad complained that Creation Science Evangelism was filing spurious DMCA requests, resulting in their YouTube videos being taken down, and their account banned. In response to the copyright claims, the RRS threatened a lawsuit.\n\nAt the time of the complaints, the CSE's website indicated the videos were not copyrighted, and the CSE encouraged copying and distributing them. Five days later, the CSE copyright page was changed to say that copied material must be left unedited. According to a spokesperson for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, CSE's claim was \"clearly bogus\", and as of September 25, 2007, the Rational Response Squad account had been reinstated, and some of the videos had been put back online.\n\nOn August 15, 2002 Hovind was arrested for assault, battery, and burglary in an incident with a CSE secretary. The charges were dropped in December.\n\nOn September 13, 2002, Hovind was charged with failure to observe county zoning regulations for Dinosaur Adventure Land, a misdemeanor. In April 2006, the Dinosaur Adventure Land buildings were closed by county officials, and the Florida circuit court found the owners in contempt, ordering fines of $500 for each day the buildings were used. Hovind argued he did not need a permit due to the nature of the building, but after a 5-year court battle over the $50 building permit, on June 5, 2006, Hovind pleaded \"nolo contendere\" as charged to three counts: constructing a building without a permit, refusing to sign a citation, and violating the county building code. Hovind paid fines totaling $675.\n\nHovind was originally reported to the Internal Revenue Service by Pensacola Christian College senior vice President Rebekah Horton in the mid 1990s, after she learned of Hovind's anti-tax stand. Hovind's organization had neither business licenses nor tax-exempt status, nor was it considered a church by people who worked there. The ministry's organizational structure was described by the United States Tax Court as appearing to be \"based on various questionable trust documents purchased from Glen Stoll, a known promoter of tax avoidance schemes\", leading the Court to conclude that Hovind used these trust documents as well as other fraudulent means to conceal the ownership and control of his activities and properties.\n\nAccording to the IRS, Hovind earned $50,000 a year through speaking engagements, and in 2002 alone, CSE sold more than $1.8 million in merchandise. On average, Hovind made bank deposits in excess of $1 million each year, and eventually that grew to about $2 million a year. About half that income went to employees who were salaried or were paid hourly wages. However, Hovind derived \"substantial revenue\" from these activities that appeared to be \"income to [him] personally\".\n\nOn March 1, 1996, Hovind filed a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition to avoid paying federal income taxes, claiming he was not a citizen of the United States and that he did not earn income. He claimed that as a minister, everything he owned belonged to God and he was not subject to paying taxes for doing God's work. On June 5, 1996, the Court dismissed Hovind's bankruptcy case, finding he had lied about his possessions and income. The court upheld the IRS's determination that his claim \"was filed in bad faith for the sole purpose of avoiding payment of federal income taxes\" and called Hovind's arguments \"patently absurd\". It also said that \"the IRS has no record of the debtor ever having filed a federal income tax return.\"\n\nIn 1998, the IRS requested account information about Hovind from an internet provider after Hovind made claims on an internet broadcast about his own tax law noncompliance, going back to the 1970s. When the provider initially balked, the courts granted a subpoena on the basis that the IRS could demonstrate that Hovind had received income but had filed no income tax returns going back to 1991. In 2003, Hovind would tell \"The New York Times\", \"I haven't filed a tax return in 30 years.\"\n\nOn May 13, 1998, Hovind and his wife filed a \"Power of Attorney and Revocation of Signature\" document in Escambia County which would nullify any of their promises, debts, or legal agreements made prior to April 15, 1998. The Hovinds claimed they had signed government documents \"due to the use of various elements of fraud and misrepresentations, duress, coercion, under perjury, mistake, 'bankruptcy',\" and argued that Social Security is a \"Ponzi scheme\". The document referred to the United States Government as \"the 'bankrupt' corporate government\", renounced the Hovinds' United States citizenship and Social Security numbers to become \"a natural citizen of 'America' and a natural sojourner\", and referred to their home state of Florida as \"the State of Florida Body-Politic Corporation.\" Judges and the IRS did not appear to honor this as a legally relevant document in future decisions. In 2002, Hovind was again delinquent in paying his taxes, and unsuccessfully sued the IRS for harassment.\n\nAt various times, the government alleged that Hovind had not filed personal U.S. federal income tax returns for the years 1989 through 1997. In the spring of 2004, the IRS conducted an audit and criminal investigation regarding Hovind's unfiled personal Federal income tax for 1995 through 1997. IRS agent Scott Schneider said, \"Since 1997, Hovind has engaged in financial transactions indicating sources of income and has made deposits to bank accounts well in excess of $1 million per year during some of these years, which would require the filing of federal income taxes.\" On June 3, 2004, the IRS executed a search warrant on Hovind's home and businesses to confiscate financial records and attempt to deliver notices of Federal tax liens of $504,957.24, which Hovind refused to accept. Agents confiscated $42,000 in cash found in various places in the residence. Six guns were present, including an SKS semiautomatic rifle. That day, Hovind withdrew $70,000 from the CSE bank account, half in cash.\n\nOn July 7, 2006, the United States Tax Court found that Hovind was deficient in paying his federal income taxes in 1995–1997, totaling $520,099. The Tax Court ruled that the IRS had a valid lien on Hovind's property and said that Hovind's defense was based on \"bizarre arguments, some of which constitute tax protester arguments involving excise taxes and the alleged '100% voluntary' nature of the income tax.\" With penalties, he owed $3.3 million for tax years 1998–2006 by 2013. Jo Hovind was ordered to pay $1.6 million.\n\nOn July 11, 2006, Hovind was indicted on 58 counts in the District Court in Northern Florida in Pensacola. The first 12 counts were charges for willful failure to collect, account for, and pay over federal income taxes and FICA taxes in connection with the CSE operation, totaling $473,818 for the 12 fiscal quarters of 2001–2003. The next 45 counts were charges for knowingly structuring transactions by making multiple cash withdrawals totaling $430,500 in amounts just under the $10,000 which requires reporting (a technique known as \"Structuring\"), for which his wife was also charged. The last count was a charge of corruptly endeavoring to obstruct and impede the administration of the internal revenue laws by falsely listing the IRS as his only creditor when filing for bankruptcy, filing a false and frivolous lawsuit against the IRS in which he demanded damages for criminal trespass, making threats of harm to those investigating him and to those who might consider cooperating with the investigation, filing a false complaint against IRS agents investigating him, filing a false criminal complaint against IRS special agents (criminal investigators), and destroying records. Because of reports of weapons on the Hovind property, the indictment was originally sealed for fear of danger to the arresting agents.\n\nAt arraignment, Hovind claimed incomprehension to the charges, telling the court: \"I still don't understand what I'm being charged for and who is charging me.\" The presiding magistrate judge asked Hovind if he wrote and spoke English, to which Hovind responded, \"To some degree.\" The judge replied that the government adequately explained the allegations and the defendant understands the charges \"whether you want to admit it or not.\" Hovind stated that he did not recognize the government's right to try him on tax-fraud charges. At first he attempted to enter a plea of \"subornation of false muster,\" but then entered a not guilty plea \"under duress\" when the judge offered to enter a plea for him. When asked about his home, Hovind called it a \"church parish\", and denied any residence except the \"church of Jesus Christ\", worldwide. Hovind's passport and guns were seized. Hovind protested, arguing that he needed his passport to continue his evangelism work, and that \"thousands and thousands\" were waiting to hear him preach in South Africa the following month. The court refused to reconsider, accepting the argument that \"like-minded people\" might secret Hovind away if he left the country.\n\nThe trial began on October 21, 2006. Hovind hoped to convince a jury that his amusement park admission and merchandise sales, over $5 million from 1999 through March 2004, belonged to God and could not be taxed. Evidence produced at the trial revealed that Jo Hovind had requested financial assistance from Baptist Healthcare by claiming that the Hovinds had no income. IRS agents told the court how Hovind had attempted \"bullying tactics\" and had sued the government three times to pressure them to stop investigating. The lawsuits had been thrown out. The prosecution countered attempts to describe workers as missionaries, ministers, and volunteers, introducing memos in which they had been called employees. Workers testified that they had to punch time cards, had vacation and sick days, and did not receive W-2 tax forms. After the IRS executed the search warrant, employees were required to sign non-disclosure agreements to remain employed. A lawyer who did work for a non-profit Christian organization testified that Hovind claimed that Hovind had \"beat\" the tax system and that he favored cash transactions because they were untraceable and, consequently, untaxable.\n\nHovind's lawyer engaged in a lengthy cross-examination of the lead IRS investigator, and the case ended on November 1 with the defense calling no witnesses. After closing arguments were presented on November 2, the jury deliberated three hours before finding the Hovinds guilty on all counts, 58 for Hovind and 45 for his wife. The \"Pensacola News Journal\" said, \"The saddest thing: Had they cooperated with the agents, they probably wouldn't be worrying about prison sentences now.\"\n\nAfter the convictions, Hovind was incarcerated in the Escambia County Jail as a \"danger to the community\" and a flight risk. His wife would remain free until after the appeal.\n\nOn January 19, 2007, Hovind was sentenced to ten years in prison with three years probation and ordered to pay the federal government restitution of over $600,000. During the sentencing phase, a tearful Hovind, hoping to avoid prison, told the court, \"If it's just money the IRS wants, there are thousands of people out there who will help pay the money they want so I can go back out there and preach.\" However, Hovind's court room behavior was in stark contrast to phone calls he made while in jail and played by the prosecution. The tapes, posted online by the \"Pensacola News Journal\", included one conversation with Hovind and Eric Hovind, who were planning to hide a motor vehicle title and property deeds to prevent the government from collecting the property to pay for owed debt. At sentencing, he denied being a \"tax protester\", but the prosecution, an IRS spokesman, and the \"Pensacola News Journal\" used the term to describe him.\n\nOn June 29, 2007, Jo Hovind was sentenced to one year of imprisonment, three years of supervision upon release and fined $8,000. In court, Jo Hovind offered explanations for the 45 checks just under $10,000 and for checks cashed before and after the reporting deadline, telling the judge \"I really did not have a leadership role in CSE\" and finished \"I would never knowingly do anything illegal.\" The judge said that while Hovind was the principal authority at CSE, Jo managed the payroll; she had cashed roughly 200 checks totaling $1.5 million over a four-year period, relying on cash to avoid IRS scrutiny. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit denied both appeals on December 30, 2008, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied \"certiorari\" on November 2, 2009.\n\nHovind appealed the amount of his 2006 U.S. Tax Court ruling on personal income taxes to the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, but on July 2, 2007, a three-judge panel denied the appeal, finding that Hovind had failed to raise the issue at the appropriate time.\n\nIn November 2010, Hovind filed a motion in U.S. District Court Northern District of Florida claiming the prosecution and defense erred at various stages of the case; it was denied the following May.\n\nIn July 2015, Hovind was released to home confinement for roughly one month to finish his prison sentence for his 2006 conviction. Almost a year after his release, Hovind said he would continue to fight his conviction and the property seizure.\n\nIn 2007, the government placed liens on ten of the Hovinds' properties for money owed following a June 27, 2007 judgment, which included an order that the properties be forfeited under for costs of $5,800, a fine of $2000, and restitution of $604,874.87. On December 30, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit denied the Hovinds' appeal and affirmed the convictions and sentences entered by the district court. Following the appeal, Jo Hovind served her prison term from January 20, 2009 to December 3, 2009.\n\nIn 2008, Eric Hovind and Glen Stoll, an individual who has been associated with the Embassy of Heaven organization and who has falsely claimed to be a lawyer, attempted to prevent the forfeitures of Hovind's ten properties, including Dinosaur Adventure Land, in connection with the federal tax problems. The government sought the property, deeded to Stoll and Eric prior to Hovind's convictions, since cash had been withdrawn from the bank accounts and could not be recovered. In a court filing, however, Eric Hovind said that he owned one of the properties and that he \"took active control over the lot by personally building a home on it with $70,000 he borrowed from CSE.\" The court accepted Eric's ownership of that property, but allowed the government to seize the other nine properties. The court ruling denying the Hovinds' appeal cleared the way for forfeiture proceedings on Hovind-owned properties, including those on which Dinosaur Adventure Land sat, to continue to satisfy the debt.\n\nIn March 2012, the federal government sued Creation Science Evangelism to remove liens placed on Hovind's former property that was seized after his conviction, and in June, the court ruled in favor of the government.\n\nIn May 2013, facing the sale of lots that were once part of Dinosaur Adventure land, Hovind acted. Using legal advice from another inmate, he filed a civil right suit against corrections personnel (a \"Bivens action\") alleging that they intentionally delayed court documents which hindered another appeal. Based on the assumption that it would trigger a chain of rulings that would ultimately result in the original sentence being overturned, he then filed several \"lis pendens\" on the properties. A federal judge rejected Hovind's claims and dismissed the filings (\"void \"ab initio\"\"), and asked for a \"show of cause\" from Hovind to explain why he should not be found in contempt of court for the false filings. His release date was approaching when he would face new charges related to the \"lis pendens\" filings.\n\nOn October 21, 2014, Hovind was indicted by a federal grand jury in Pensacola, Florida, on two counts of mail fraud, one count of conspiracy with Paul John Hansen to commit mail fraud, and one count of criminal contempt for interfering with the sale of Pensacola properties Hovind was forced to forfeit as a result of the 2006 case. Hovind and Hansen pleaded not guilty and were tried together.\n\nOn March 2, 2015, the trial began in U.S. District Court for Northern Florida. On the first day of testimony, the prosecution discussed Hovind and Hansen's \"dozens of filings\", including several \"lis pendens\", used to resist a court-ordered forfeiture due in part to legal advice Hovind took from his \"cellmate in a New Hampshire prison camp\". The prosecution case included numerous emails, recorded phone calls, and court filings related to the forfeited properties. The prosecution presented audio of Hovind characterizing a \"lis pendens\" by asking his daughter, \"Have you ever taken a step into dog crap and it gets stuck on your feet and it's really hard to get off?\" Hansen and Hovind took the stand in their own defense. According to journalist Kevin Robinson, during Hovind's testimony, he \"refused to give short answers\" and said that he believed his actions were lawful. On March 12, 2015, Hovind was found guilty on one count of criminal contempt, Hansen on two counts of criminal contempt, and jury was hung on the remaining charges.\n\nA trial on the counts on which the jury could not reach a verdict had been ordered to begin on May 18, 2015. However, on Saturday, May 16, 2015, the prosecution filed its \"Government's Motion to Dismiss Counts One, Two and Four of the Superseding Indictment Without Prejudice,\" citing \"issues regarding the technical sufficiency of the Superseding Indictment, including the adequacy of notice.\" Later on Saturday, May 16, the Court cancelled the jury selection and trial that had been scheduled to begin on Monday, May 18, in order, in the Court's words, to permit the defendants to respond to the government's motion.\n\nOn Monday, May 18, 2015, the U.S. District Court made two decisions. First, the Court granted the prosecutor's request for a \"without prejudice\" dismissal of the three remaining charges against Hovind, allowing the prosecutor to go back to a Federal grand jury and seek a new indictment if desired. Second, the Court rendered a judgment of acquittal on the criminal contempt charge on which Hovind had been found guilty by the jury. On that point, the Court concluded that in the specific order that Hovind had been found guilty of violating, there was no actual language that prohibited Hovind from doing anything.\n\nOn August 21, 2015, Paul John Hansen was sentenced to 18 months in prison and three years probation for the two counts of contempt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12242739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12242739", "title": "Land reform in North Vietnam", "text": "Land reform in North Vietnam\n\nLand reform in North Vietnam (Vietnamese: \"Cải cách ruộng đất tại miền Bắc Việt Nam\") can be understood as an agrarian reform in northern Vietnam throughout different periods, but in many cases it only refers to the one within the regime of Democratic Republic of Vietnam (DRV) in the 1950s. Land reform in North Vietnam is one of the most important economic and political programs launched by Viet Minh government during the years 1953-1956.\n\nThe project of land reform in North Vietnam was a product of the interplay of complex internal and external factors. On 9 March 1945, several years after occupation in Indochina, Japan instigated a military coup, threw away the French administration in Indochina and established a puppet indigenous government headed by Tran Trong Kim. However, five months later, Japan unconditionally surrendered. Taking the political vacuum, Viet Minh seized power by launching a nationwide revolution, and founded the DRV in Hanoi in September 2.\n\nSoon after that, Vietnam saw an influx of big power. The Kuomintang Chinese armies accepted the surrender of Japan in Vietnam North of the 17 parallel, with the British in the south. Both of them negotiated and facilitated the French return. After negotiations between Viet Minh and the French broke down, the war between them started from late 1946 until 1954; this is called the First Indochina war (1946-1954).\n\nIn the whole of the 1940s, Viet Minh fought solely against the French army. In terms of military capability, Viet Minh was in position of clear-cut disadvantage; this did not change until the establishment and involvement of the People's Republic of China\n\nDuring this period of time, the DRV government was dominated by Viet Minh who was popular among the indigenous political force; its domestic policy was to unite all possible forces for resistance war. It also embraced peasants, workers, students and some merchants and intellectuals. On 11 November 1945, the ICP declared its dissolution, aiming at downplaying the role of communist ideology by dissolving and forcing the ICP underground for garnering more support from the masses. \n\nIn October 1949, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) established the People's Republic of China by overtaking its political rivalry with the KMT, which had a major impact on the political landscape of the region in general and Vietnam in particular.\n\nFrom the CCP’s perspective, the Chinese revolutionary model was intended to be exported to the Asian countries, Vietnam included. Moreover, the increasing influence in its southern periphery was also for national defense and security. From the perspective of the DRV, communist China was a good ally who shared the same ideology and similar approaches to complete communist revolution. They were glad to conduct a binary revolution at the same time: externally anti-colonialism and internally anti-feudalism. Thus Ho Chi Minh plead proactively for Chinese aid After establishing formal diplomatic relations with the PRC in early 1950, Luo Guibo became the first Chinese ambassador to the DRV, and Chinese aid also flooded into the DRV, the most significant of which was the Chinese advisory group, which was later sent to North Vietnam in the same year.\n\nBasically, Chinese advisory groups had a double mission. The most important one was to provide advice on military affairs. After winning military victories in a series of military campaigns with considerable help from August 1950 onward, the DRV not only gradually turned around the war situation but also expanded its controlling areas. This conducive environment facilitated the DRV to carry out its land reform plan.\n\nAs a government dominated by the communists, land reform was an integral part of its revolution. After its first trial failed in the 1930s, Vietnamese communists never had a real chance to carry out it, even during a long time after the foundation of the DRV. For the sake of war, communist slogans were even diminished. Instead, they needed support from landowners and landlords. However, Chinese assistance outweighed domestic support from feudal classes and communism was re-emphasized. The Indochinese party was divided along national lines and the Vietnamese Worker’s party (VWP) was officially formed in early 1951. Simultaneously, land reform was put on its agenda. More comprehensive and stricter land policies were formulated, and class struggle was emphasized as inseparable from the military struggle for the first time.\n\nOn the other hand, the French and American-sponsored Quoc Gia Viet Nam (the State of Vietnam) emerged and was recognized by western powers. Particularly after the Bao Dai solution, the DRV faced a competent rivalry regime which contested its monopolistic representation of the Vietnamese people. In this situation, Truong Chinh in his report to the party Congress in 1951 pointed out that as soon as the Bao Dai regime was set up, the landlord class aligned itself with the State of Vietnam.\n\nExcept international and domestically political factors, as Bernard B. Fall pointed out, land reform was also necessary for economic reasons. 90 percent of the population lived by agriculture, but the problem was the enormous population pressure put upon the relatively small fertile areas. In the Red River delta, 9 million people were crowded into an area of 5790 square miles. The majority of population under the DRV were peasants but did not have land to till, which was an unjust situation.\n\nSince the end of WWII in Indochina, people suffered a lot from famine and lack of enough food due to continuous conflicr. Improving their welfare can consolidate the Viet Minh’s regime by garnering more support. Collective ownership as a palliative to landlessness has been a century-old practice throughout Vietnam and as for individuals, they were deprived of rice fields and had to turn to support to the communal land.\n\nIn Vietnam, there is a saying called “Phép Vua Thua Lệ Làng”, literally meaning that the emperor is secondary to village customs and implicitly indicating that national rule at the village was given a way to autonomous rule by village itself. This was also true for the DRV government; their influence in the grass roots is relatively weak. Land reform served as a good way to cement its power at the grass roots level.\n\nLand reform in North Vietnam was a grand project. At the beginning, it was a relatively mild campaign; later on, it was radicalized and caused serious effects. When the top leaders notices the side effects, they tried to rectify the caused errors.\n\nPre-1953 communist land policy in DRV\n\nSocial revolution is part of revolution led by the Communist Party. However, for a long time, the regime failed to grasp the essential tasks of Vietnamese national democratic revolution and placed too much emphasis on unity with landlords in the interest of national resistance, and did not pay much attention to the peasant and land issues. What they did was to adopt a middle way: landlords agreed to decrease the land rent and the peasants still needed to pay rent but with a lower rate. The land rent reduction was formulated in July 1949.\n\nAlso, all pre-1953 policy had failed in breaking through the landlord’s economic and political power and in serving the interests of the peasants. According to VWP’s mouthpiece Nhan Dan, even landlords were allowed to join the party, which somehow dominated the party chapters in many areas.\nDRV gradually abandoned its former policy toward landlords and peasants. From 14 to 23 November 1953, VWP organized a national conference, in this meeting, anti-feudalism was put much emphasis on.The most important change was that a new approach was adopted, which was mass mobilization for class struggle.\n\nLand reform constituted two successive campaigns: land rent reduction campaign (1953-1954) and land reform campaign proper (1954-1956). The first campaign included eights waves and the second had five waves. According to Hoang Van Chi who was a former member of DRV and fled to South Vietnam in the mid-1950s, these two campaigns had but one purpose, namely the liquidation of the landowning class and the subsequent establishment of a proletarian dictatorship in the countryside. The only notable difference between them was the degree of violence and the nature of the wealth confiscated.\n\nLand Rent Reduction Campaign\n\nAfter being trained by Chinese, through the local party-cell, Vietnamese cadres were sent to the village and lived with a few landless peasants. They practiced the “Three Together System”, namely, worked together, ate together and lived together. By doing so for two to three months, they had amassed much information of the peasants and that village, and also arouse awareness of social class by posing questions to the peasants like why they were poor.\n\nAfter this survey by professionally trained cadres, the reduction campaign officially began, and there were six successive stages. The first stage was to classify population during which peasants were categorized according to their possession, this was followed by classification of landlords. Theoretically speaking, there were three classes of landlords: traitorous; ordinary; resistance and “democratic personalities”. Those landlords, if found not comply with rent reduction decree, would be arrested. In this case, they had to pay back the excess land rent within time limit, this is the third stage of extortion of money and valuables. The fourth stage is crime revelation, the peasants were made to attend a special course and taught how to publicly reveal crimes of landlords, and they would have a role of denouncing crimes in the front of a number of people in the fifth stage, but the problem was that they denounced for appearing faithful and obedient to the party, so they may denounce as much as they can rather than considered the reality.\n\nOn 12 April 1953, a special people’s tribunal court, composed of peasants who knew nothing about law, was formed according to decree 150/SL. Sentences varied from the death penalty to years’ hard labor, for this point, the most well-known case was Nguyen Thi Nam, a patriotic landlord who joined the resistance war against the French but was sentenced to death.\n\nThe label of landlord is dangerous. According to Hoang’s memoir, as soon as a man was defined as landlord, he and his family were isolated from their fellow human beings and nobody was permitted to talk to them or even have any contact with them. This policy of isolation even caused a number of deaths.\n\nLand Reform Campaign Proper\n\nIn the year of 1953, a series of decrees and laws on land reform were released. VWP central committee assessed the possibility of moving on to the last phase of land revolution: redistribution of agricultural land, which was followed by the most crucial land reform law publicized on 19 December 1953, which can be regarded as the platform for land reform. Very soon after the law was passed in national congress, the experimental wave of land reform took place between December 1953 and March 1954 in Thai Nguyen province. This experiment was fruitful according to the official, and a Central Land Reform Committee was established on 15 March 1954 which was headed by Pham Van Dong.\n\nLand reform then expanded to larger areas by five waves (see the table below).\n\nCompared to the prior campaign, land reform campaign proper was carried out more violently and in larger areas especially after the Geneva Conference because the VWP leaders realized that the Geneva Agreement was impossible to be implemented; and feared that Diem’s “March North” may start a fire at its backyard. Five times the number of landlords than the first campaign was fixed by the party, thus it provoked increased internal conflict. According to Hoang, the DRV authorities never stated the number of dispossessed landlords in any of their official publications. Expropriation was occasional during the first campaign but it was universally practiced during the second. As soon as the confiscation ceremony was over, an exhibition of the confiscated personal belongings of the landlord was organized, and in doing so, class awareness was intentionally provoked by illustrating the sharp contrast in living standards between peasants and landlords. However, this is not the end, the next big question was the apportionment of land and other properties. Normal practice should distribute them among peasants, however, it lacked accurate information.\n\nDue to the traditionally close connection between China and Vietnam in general, and the enormous tie between Chinese and Vietnamese communists since 1949 in particular, right from the early 1950s onward, communist China’s influence over DRV increased dramatically. There were three kinds of Chinese advisory groups in North Vietnam providing assistance in the aspect of military, politics and logistics. Chinese military advisory group was headed firstly by Wei Guoqing (July 1950- May 1951) providing directly consultation to the top commander of DRV. Chinese political advisory group was headed by Luo Guibo. Land reform was part of political issue, and Luo played a big role in it. Under political advisory group, a financial team was established in early 1951 to help North Vietnam formulate regulations on how to collect tax and rice.\n\nSince 1953, for facilitating mass mobilization and rent reduction campaign, more than 100 North Vietnamese cadres was sent to China to participate training class. Later on in spring 1953, a particular institution exclusively in charge of helping DRV to conduct land reform was called the Land Reform and Party Consolidation Section which was headed by Zhang Dequn. According to his memoir, more land reform specialists of Chinese cadres was responsible for training. Similar to Chinese experience, social organizations such as peasant, youth, and women’s league were established. Cadres were trained to practice Vietnamese version of Chinese “three together system” (三共,san gong) while peasants were mobilized and encouraged to “pour out grievances suffering from landlords and French collaborators” (诉苦,su ku).\n\nFor the case of North Vietnam, some soldier was also affected due to their family background, and among the army, there were some degree of dissatisfaction. Considering this and from Chinese experience, Chinese advisors proposed to carry out a land reform education campaign among DRV’s army. On February 1953, Luo Guibo sent a report to the Chinese leadership proposing a political consolidation campaign (整军,zheng jun) in order to make them aware of class distinction.\nOn December 1953, the third National Congress passed land reform law which put forward route of land reform: step by step wipe out feudal system by relying on poor peasants, uniting middle and rich peasants.\n\nThe Chinese pattern of land reform in DRV was successful in meeting the need of the poor peasants for land and thus increased the prestige of the new Communist authorities. However, it also produced significant negative consequences for the party due to that Mao’s pattern of land reform emphasized the excessive class struggle and repression. This was an important reason for the later Vietnamese criticism of the Chinese model.\n\nExecutions and imprisonment of persons classified as \"landlords\" or enemies of the state were contemplated from the beginning of the land reform program. A Politburo document dated 4 May 1953 said that executions were \"fixed in principle at the ratio of one per one thousand people of the total population.\" That ratio would indicate that communist Vietnam contemplated the execution of about 15,000 \"reactionaries and evil landlords\" in carrying out the program. On July 9, 1953, the first landlord executed was the woman , who had in fact been an active supporter of the Vietnamese Communist resistance.\n\nThe scale of the ensuing repression has proved difficult and controversial to quantify, with estimates of the number of executions ranging from 800 to 200,000. Testimony from North Vietnamese witnesses suggested a ratio of one execution for every 160 village residents, which extrapolated nationwide would indicate nearly 100,000 executions. Because the campaign was concentrated mainly in the Red River Delta area, a lower estimate of 50,000 executions became widely accepted by scholars at the time. A Saigon communique put the figure at 32,000 executions (12,000 party members and 20,000 others), based on the testimony of an ex-party member involved in the campaign. However, declassified documents from the Vietnamese and Hungarian archives indicate that the number of executions was much lower than reported at the time, although likely greater than 13,500. Economist Vo Nhan Tri reported uncovering a document in the central party archives which put the number of wrongful executions at 15,000. From discussions with party cadres, Vo Nhan Tri concluded that the overall number of deaths was considerably higher than this figure. According to the Vietnam Institute for Economics, 172,008 individuals were designated as landlords and rich peasants, of whom 71.66% were mistakenly categorized. Although it is impossible to know how many of them were executed, this suggests that the scale of errors committed \"was undeniably dramatic.\"\n\nAs soon as the reform was completed by 1956 and the so-called peasants’ authority well-established in the villages, the party quite unexpectedly admitted to having made many serious mistakes during the reform when the “masses” had been “given a free hand”. VWP developed a campaign called \"Rectification of Errors\" from January 1957 till mid-1957. This campaign was divided into three phases. The first phase was a crash operation to survey the damage done and release from prison incorrectly classified peasants and falsely accused cadres. The second phase, more deliberate and the real heart of the campaign, was divided into two steps. Step I was the re-classification of peasants, and step II was the restitution of property erroneously expropriated or else making suitable compensation. The third phase of the mistakes correction was to be a review, inventory and concentrated re-indoctrination of local personnel.\n\nAs one of the most important events of DRV in the 1950s, as well as the first radical political campaigns of Vietnamese communists as an exclusive power-holder, this program has produced much controversial effect on North Vietnamese society, the regime itself, as well as relations between peasants and the DRV regime.\n\nThe reform also reached very considerable ends in terms of economic and social transformation. Economically speaking, collective ownership prevailed and the rural population was more or less equal. From the perspective of social transformation, it radically changed the traditional pattern of village: formerly, the landlords played a leading role in the village affairs but now they were eliminated and replaced by peasants. However, partly due to the land reform and other radical campaigns, nearly one million North Vietnamese moved to the South.\n\nBecause of the use of violence and excessive emphasis over class struggle, land reform in the 1950s caused much negative impact. For this reason, it is still a sensitive topic even today. It also constitutes a considerable part of oversea Vietnamese political dissents criticizing today’s communist party of Vietnam and its dependence on China.\n\nThe aims of the reform were military, economic, political and social, the most important of which, until the decisive victory at Dien Bien Phu in May 1954, was the military objective. Ho Chi Minh once listed in 1956 achievements of land reform, nearly ten million peasants had received land; tens of thousands of new cadres had been trained in the countryside. The organization of the Party, the administration and peasants’ associations in the communes have been readjusted.\n\nThe Viet Minh regime gained its control over the grass village and its ability to influence and mobilize the mass was consolidated. Land reform is an agrarian project but also a political campaign. Through mass mobilization and classification, anti-revolutionary and reactionary enemies were suppressed economically and politically.\n\nThis had a nearly profound impact for wars in the latter years. One, this paved the way for the socialist construction in the North, which could provide southern communists with logistical support. Two, the reform can be regarded as a preparatory step for a large-scale war. The regime opened the door to enlightenment by completely altering the existing patterns of production; but also provided the masses with an ideology which would modify their attitude to work even before the economic conditions were fundamentally changed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35030776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35030776", "title": "List of Pakistan Movement activists", "text": "List of Pakistan Movement activists\n\nThe Founders and activists of the Pakistan Movement, also known as Founding Fathers of Pakistan (Urdu:بانيڹ پاكستان; \"Romanization lit\".:\"bəŋɨaɪaɪ-e-Pəkɨstəŋ\"), were the political leaders and statespersons who participated in the success of the political movement, following the signing of the Pakistan Resolution, that led the establishment and creation of Pakistan on August 1947. Within this large group, a further and extended subset signed the signed the Objectives Resolution that was annexed to the Constitution of Pakistan in 1950.\n\nThe term was first used by the linguist and archeologist dr. Ahmad Hasan Dani's book, the \"Founding Fathers of Pakistan\" (1998), which popularized the term in literary activities of the country. The Pakistan Movement was led by a large group of activists and statesmen who played crucial role in the politics of the British Indian Empire in 1930s and 1940s. More recently, the term was used by the government officially in explaining the foreign policy text. Authors and historians of Pakistan more broadly define the term \"Founding Fathers\" to mean a larger group which also includes all those who, whether as politicians, jurists, statesperson, soldiers, diplomats, academicians, or ordinary citizens, took part in winning the independence of four provinces in the north-west region of British India from the control of the United Kingdom and also from the influence of the Indian Congress; this creating Pakistan.\n\nThe following is a list of people who played a prominent role in making of Pakistan as independence activists, leaders, freedom fighters and revolutionaries.\n\nIn 1905, the Bengal presidency's partition was decided by the English government which was supported by the Muslims communities. The success of the Swadeshi movement led by Indian activists led the reintegrating the presidency and it was a catalyst in making the Muslims reformers of India realize the need for a separate homeland.\n\nDuring the same year, the political efforts and initiations led by Sir Syed Ahmad Khan led the establishment of the historic All-India Muslim League (AIML) to protect the interests and rights of the Muslim regions in the subcontinent. Mutual distrust among the Hindu leaders and Muslim reformers further grew. A conference held as well as chaired by Indian Viceroy, Early Minto, the Hindu-Muslim conflict was raised to the constitutional plane. In 1906, an annual meeting of Muhammadan Educational Conference was held by Nawab Vikar-ul-Mulk, Syed Ahmad Khan, and 3,000 other delegatesattended the session making it the largest-ever representative gathering of Muslim India. Muslim cleric Ali Johar wrote All-India Muslim League's first agenda and Syed Ameer Ali established its European branch in the United Kingdom.\n\nFor some quiet time, the Muslim League worked on its reputation and credibility against the much influential Indian Congress. It was not until when Liaquat Ali Khan and his companion Shrene Pant convinced Muhammad Ali Jinnah and among others to join the Muslim League in 1930s. The philosophical idea, \"Pakistan\" (Iqbal, 1930); the 14 points (Jinnah, 1929); the \"Now or Never\" (Ali, 1933); the Two-nation theory which was subsequently contributed and worked by many activists and leaders played a crucial role in gaining the creation of Pakistan in 1947.\n\nThe newly founded country of Pakistan had to create a government and legislature to replace the British India government and the British Parliament. The founding fathers of Pakistan first established the partial Constituent Assembly (which was replaced with Parliament), and adopted the Objectives Resolution was annexed to the Constitution of Pakistan.\n\nThe founders and activists as well had different occupations and practiced a wide range of high and middle-status occupations, and many pursued more than one career simultaneously. However, the more influential founding fathers were trained and professional barristers and lawyers. Notable activist, Sir Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed, was a mathematician who helped forming in the first educational policy of the country. Ra'ana Ali Khan was an economist; and Abu Bakr Ahmad, a political scientist; M.M. Sharif, a philosopher; and Shaukat Hyatt Khan, an officer in the British Army, are the quiet few notable personalities who played an integrated role in the movement.\n\nThe activities and constant public gathering of founding fathers of Pakistan attracted the people of North-West India to be politically active in the movement. Many of the activists would later becoming the future leader of the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "33214865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33214865", "title": "Manchukuo Temporary Government", "text": "Manchukuo Temporary Government\n\nThe Manchukuo Temporary Government is an organisation established in 2004 in Hong Kong. On its website, it claims to be the government in exile of Manchukuo, a Japanese puppet state with limited recognition which controlled northeast China from 1932 to 1945; it seeks to revive the state and to separate it from the People's Republic of China, which controls its claimed territory. Journalists and internet users have expressed doubts about its authenticity and aims.\n\nMedia summaries of its website state that the Manchukuo Temporary Government includes an emperor, a royal family, a prime minister, and a cabinet. It continues to use the old National Anthem of Manchukuo and Flag of Manchukuo. The website also has accounts of the history of the region and its people, including a claim that the Manchu people are one of the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel; James Leipold of the China Policy Institute described it as \"thick on anti-communist vitriol\" while failing to address Japanese hegemony in Manchukuo.\n\nThe Manchukuo Temporary Government is a member of the International Monarchist League. It also seeks to join the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization. It claims to have overseas branches in Brazil, Italy, Japan, Taiwan, and the United States.\n\nThe leadership of the Manchukuo Temporary Government is formed by electing an emperor and a prime minister. In the 2008 elections, the emperorship was won by \"Aisin Gioro Xiaojie\" (愛新覺羅‧孝傑), stated to be a student in the University of Hong Kong's history department; his actual relation to the Aisin Gioro clan is suspect, as his generation name \"Xiao\" (孝) does not fit with the actual clan genealogy. However, that emperor dropped out of contact with the Manchukuo Temporary Government, so in April 2010, it held another election, won by \"Aisin Gioro Chongji\" (爱新觉罗‧崇基). Jason Adam-Tonis was elected as Prime Minister in May 2011. At the time, Adam-Tonis was a New York University student and also a chairman of the Songun Politics Study Group, a North Korean front group based in the United States.\n\nThe Manchukuo Temporary Government's \"central bank\", which claims to succeed the old Central Bank of Manchou, declared the old Manchukuo yuan to have a fixed exchange rate of 0.8 to the United States dollar, and offers currency exchange services by post. As early as 2007, it was issuing identity cards for US$3 each, and fantasy passports for US$8 each, with payment to be made by PayPal. Its website claimed to sell Manchukuo postage stamps, but when a \"Ming Pao\" columnist enquired with them about the possibility of purchasing them, a spokesperson stated that the items were sold out. It also issued what it referred to as \"loyalty bonds\". Its activities led the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, Greece's Hellenic Capital Market Commission, and Spain's Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores to issue public warnings about it in February 2008 to emphasise that it is not a body permitted to offer investment services.\n\nThe Manchukuo Temporary Government received occasional media attention in the context of the politics of Taiwan around the time of the 2009 elections, as its members may be distant relatives of Kuomintang general-secretary and ethnic Manchu King Pu-tsung, and it was jokingly suggested that King himself might be one of its secret agents. Some internet users suspected the entire website of being a scam set up for the purpose of raising money. Hong Kong political scientist Simon Shen, an expert on Chinese nationalism and the internet, also expressed suspicion of the website and its attempt to portray the revival of Manchukuo as a movement undertaken on behalf of Manchu people; he pointed out that the people who ever felt genuine identification with the state of Manchukuo were mostly not Chinese or Manchu but rather Japanese. Another news commentator similarly suggested that Japanese nationalists were behind the site. On the other hand, Shen also suggested that the whole website might simply be a spoof designed by internet trolls.\n\nThe Manchukuo Temporary Government also provoked angry reactions from some quarters. A NOWnews guest columnist in May 2011, in the midst of other arguments against Taiwan independence, called the Manchukuo Temporary Government \"the shame of the people of Northeast China\". Its stated political positions, such as support for the Dalai Lama and the Tibetan independence movement, as well as its calls to disrupt the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, earned it the ire of internet users in mainland China. At one point, rumours were spreading in mainland Chinese internet forums that one \"Toshiaki Kawashima\" (川島志明), whom they alleged to be the nephew of Yoshiko Kawashima and prime minister of the Manchukuo Temporary Government, was working as a secret agent for Chen Shui-bian in Papua New Guinea with the aim of fomenting violence against Chinese people there.\n\n"}
{"id": "15143850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15143850", "title": "Mega Purple", "text": "Mega Purple\n\nMega Purple is a grape juice concentrate by Canandaigua Concentrates of Madera, California, a division of Constellation Brands. It is used as a food additive. The process used for producing the additive is proprietary. Based on the descriptions of effects to wines by winemakers it is likely produced by a series of processes such as vacuum distillation, fractional distillation, and solvent extraction. The product is one of a series of concentrates marketed as kosher additives for food with names such as Mega \"Cherry Shade\" Grape Juice Concentrate, Mega Purple Grape Juice Concentrate, Mega Red Grape Juice Concentrate\n\nThere has been some discussion in the industry regarding the use of additives such as Mega Purple to bolster or enhance sensory attributes such as color, taste and mouth feel. It is reported that as much as 20% of the total production of such additives is related to wines. According to journal reports, Mega Purple is used by almost every low- to moderate-value wine producer (below $20US per 750 ml bottle) to help standardize the bottled product ensuring a more uniform product.\n\nIt is produced by concentrating the \"teinturier\" grape Rubired, a cross between Alicante Ganzin and Tinta Cão, has 68% sugar and sells for approximately $135 a gallon.\n\nMega Purple has raised some controversy within the wine consuming community as its use is considered to be akin to adulterating a wine. Others, such as John Williams, winemaker for Frog's Leap Winery, has stated that the need for its use is evidence of poor viticulture and/or winemaking.\n"}
{"id": "41221957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41221957", "title": "Monstrous coalition", "text": "Monstrous coalition\n\n\"Monstrous coalition\" () is the name that has remained in the collective consciousness of Romania to refer to the alliance between conservatives and radical liberals in order to obtain Alexandru Ioan Cuza's removal from power. This name was promoted in its time by press favorable to Cuza.\n\nAlthough at the first analysis a coalition between the political left (radicals) and the political right (conservatives) seems unnatural, it was logical within the political context of the time: the personal authoritarian regime introduced by Cuza.\n\nAuthoritarian tendencies began to be manifested by the ruler early in 1863, and the personal regime was installed after the coup of 2 May 1864. He increased his own power at the expense of other institutions. On 10 May, Cuza amended, through plebiscite, the Paris Convention which had hitherto functioned as Constitution for the United Principalities, transforming it into Developing Statues of the Paris Convention. The most important change was the redistribution of state organization so that the ruler should have more powers. From this point, the political scene was divided into two camps: cuzists and opposition. Moreover, the ruler understood to govern over political groups with trustworthy people, of moderate shades, as Mihail Kogălniceanu or Nicolae Crețulescu.\n\nThe leaders of this coalition were the radical C. A. Rosetti, conservative Lascăr Catargiu and the moderate Ion Ghica.\n\nThe \"monstrous coalition\" was supported by large landowners and businessmen who were not satisfied with the policy of the ruler. Coalition emerged after the National Assembly elections in Romania, second convocation, in 1864, and was chaired by Ion C. Brătianu. Mihail Kogălniceanu remained loyal to Alexandru Ioan Cuza. In 1866, the coalition gave a coup d'etat. On the morning of 11 February, five o'clock, a group of soldiers entered the Royal Palace and forced the ruler to accept the abdication. Cuza was forced to swear that he will abdicate, after seven years of reign, to leave the throne to a foreign prince, as is required in one of the provisions of ad-hoc divans of 1857. The unionist press related that \"the argument of this heinous act was the charge that the elected ruler would have betrayed the interests of the country to a foreign power\".\n\nTwo days later, on 13 February, Cuza leaves Bucharest, taking the road of Vienna, and, after him, on 10 May 1866, Prince Karl of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen is proclaimed ruler of Romania, under the name of Carol I. Subsequently, Carol was asked to allow Cuza return home. The monarch sent the request to the Council of Ministers that rejected it.\n"}
{"id": "24874494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24874494", "title": "Mouvement de la Paix", "text": "Mouvement de la Paix\n\nThe Mouvement de la Paix is an organisation which promotes a culture of peace initiated by the United Nations. The movement was created in the aftermath of the Second World War by the large resistance movements, particularly those associated with communists, Christians and free-thinkers, and was linked directly to the \"Mouvement mondial des partisans de la paix\" whose aim was to struggle for peace.\n\nThe origin of the Movement was to be found in the creation of \"Combattants de la Liberté\" in the aftermath of the Second World War. It was the communist leader, Charles Tillon who, at the end of 1947, launched an appeal for the creation of an organisation devoted to \"supporting the republican régime and preventing the return of fascism and dictatorship\". On 22 February 1948, about 60 people who had been active in the resistance founded \"\"les Combattants de la Liberté\" in a meeting at the \"l'Hôtel des 2 Mondes\" in Paris. The leader was to be Yves Farge whoa had been appointed prefect of the Rhône-Alpes region by Charles de Gaulle at the liberation of France. The constitution of this young movement which aimed to preserve the resistance spirit of unity was laid down by Raymond Aubrac.\n\nAfter the 1948 \"Congrès des peuples pour la paix de Wroclaw\", the \"Mouvement mondial des partisans de la paix\" was formed, and encouraged the creation of national committees. In France, the \"Combattants de la Liberté\", which had become \"les Combattants de la Liberté et de la Paix\", then \"les Combattants de la Paix et de la Liberté\" finally in 1951 became \"le conseil national français du Mouvement de la Paix\"\", commonly known as the \"Mouvement de la Paix\".\n\nThe period of the Cold War was for the Movement the most rich in operations, influence and effect. The Movement participated in the 1949 \"Congrès mondial des Partisans de la Paix\" in Paris, at which the World Peace Council was created. The leadership was given to the intellectual and scientist Frédéric Joliot-Curie. The Movement organised a massive campaign of support in France for the Stockholm appeal which gathered millions of signatures, including that of Jacques Chirac. The Stockholm campaign marked the apogee of the Movement in France. \n\nThe Movement subsequently became radicalised, and lost some of its popular influence. Several campaigns followed, against the Korean War (1950, the demonstration against Matthew Ridgway), or against German rearmament under the European Defence Community (from 1952 onwards).\n\nThe year 1956 marked the beginning of destalinization, which overturned the communist landscape in Europe. The Movement lost some of its energy, particularly after its campaign against the Algerian war.\n\nThe flame revived during the Vietnam War and again with the NATO Double-Track Decision in the 1980s. The Movement also obtained the first disarmament agreement dealing with short and long range missiles in Europe. In 1995, the Movement participated in a massive international campaign aimed at closing down the \"Centre d'Expérimentation du Pacifique\" in Mururoa.\n\nSince 2000 the Movement has energised a large anti-war constituency (Afghanistan, Iraq, the near east \"etc\"). Very active in the alter-globalization movement and in international partnerships, the Movement supports Mayors for Peace in France, and the French PNND (\"Parlementaires pour la non-prolifération et le désarmement nucléaire\", Parliamentarians for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament). The Movement is a member of the World Peace Council, of the International Peace Bureau, of Abolition 2000 and of the International Association of Educators for Peace.\n\nThe Movement is today the most important pacifist non-governmental organization in France with almost 150 local committees. It frequently coordinates anti-war coalitions and invests heavily in the young. International peace day on the 21 September marks one of its annual high points.\n\nThe Movement seems to have experienced a rally since the 2003 Iraq war and the development of alter-globalization movements. It plays an important role in organizing European social fora, and has mobilized against the Iraq war, the situations in Chechnya and Israel, and against nuclear weapons with a campaign for a non-proliferation treaty. The movement is appealing for a reduction in the defense budget. For several years, in response to urban violence, the Movement has promoted the idea of committees for culture and peace in city wards.\n\nAfter over 50 years and 500 issues, the Movement's magazine, \"Combat pour la Paix\" (fight for peace) changed its name to \"Planète Paix\" (Planet Peace) in March 2005.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54959831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54959831", "title": "Municipal commissioner", "text": "Municipal commissioner\n\nIn many countries, a municipal commissioner is an official in a municipal government such as that of a city or a town.\n\nIn India, every Municipal Corporation in India is administratively headed by a Municipal Commissioner, who is the de facto head of the municipal corporation, the form of government which is usually granted to a city of more one million in population.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, under the \"Municipal Council Ordinance\" there is a municipal commissioner of each municipal council. He/she would be the chief administrative officer and is the highest ranking non-elected officer of the municipality and in most cases be an officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service on secondment. In the absence of the Mayor, the municipal commissioner serves as the chief executive of the municipality and between the end of term of an mayor and election of a new mayor, the municipal commissioner would serve as the officer implementing the powers and function of the municipal council. The common seal of the council is retained by the municipal commissioner. The municipal council may appoint a \"Charity Commissioner of the Council\".\n\nIn Sweden, the municipal commissioners for finance of Stockholm (finansborgarråd) is often translated as Mayor of Stockholm, because the municipal commissioner for finance has become the top politician of Stockholm municipality since the Stockholm municipal reform 1940.\n"}
{"id": "6556174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6556174", "title": "National Union of South African Students", "text": "National Union of South African Students\n\nThe National Union of South African Students (NUSAS) was an important force for liberalism and later radicalism in South African student anti-apartheid politics. Its mottos included non-racialism and non-sexism.\n\nNUSAS was founded in 1924 under the guidance of Leo Marquard, at a conference at Grey College by members of the Student Representative Councils (SRC) of South African Universities. The union was made up mostly of students from English-language South African universities. Afrikaans-speaking leaders walked out between 1933 and 1936. In 1945 the students from \"native college\" at Fort Hare were admitted as members confirming the commitment to non-racialism after a period of indecision.\n\nEarly presidents of the organisation included Phillip Tobias elected in 1948, who presided over the organisation's first anti-apartheid campaign. The effort was mounted to resist the racial segregation of South African universities. Ian Robertson, president in 1966, invited Senator Robert Kennedy to address South African Students. Other presidents included, John Didcott, Jonty Driver, Paul Pretorius, Charles Nupen, Neville Curtis, Glenn Moss and Auret van Heerden.\n\nThough the organisation stood for non-violence in its opposition to Apartheid, some former senior members were associated with the first violent anti-apartheid resistance group, the African Resistance Movement.\n\nDespite its liberal resistance to racially separate organisations in the 1960s, its members, and in particular its leadership, supported the breakaway in 1969, of black student leaders, led by Steve Biko and others, to form the South African Students' Organisation (SASO), a Black Consciousness Movement student grouping.\n\nThe SASO break-away instigated a re-examination of NUSAS' political ideology and its role in the struggle against apartheid. In the early 1970s, NUSAS increasingly became informed by Western Marxist ideas. It turned to organising workers through its Student Wages Commission programme with an initial mandate to run an \"investigation into the wages and working conditions of unskilled black university staff\" and later to begin organising workers into trade unions. This work is argued to have sparked the emergence of black trade unionism in South Africa that went on to play a seminal role in opposition to apartheid in the 1980s.\n\nThroughout this time many students at so-called \"white\" universities who supported the organisation because of its anti-apartheid campaigns. Most of the English language universities (Witwatersrand, University of Cape Town (UCT), Rhodes and University of Natal) remained affiliated to NUSAS, which by the mid 1970s was the strongest body of white resistance to apartheid.\n\nNUSAS backed the African National Congress (ANC) in their campaign against repression, and adopted the Freedom Charter and involved its members in non-racial political projects in education, the arts and trade union spheres. This confronted Apartheid on the streets and in both the local and international media, infuriating the Nationalist Party Government who cracked down on the rising student revolt on several fronts in the mid-1970s.\n\nBy the early 1990s South African students began to see the need to consolidate their efforts to finally rid South Africa of racist controls and to re-focus on education issues. NUSAS was merged with black controlled student movements into a single non-racial progressive student organization, the South African Student Congress (SASCO), in 1991.\n\nOn 2 July, 1991, NUSAS dissolved during with the conclusion of its 67th congress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47446629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47446629", "title": "Negus", "text": "Negus\n\nNegus (, ' ; ; cf. ') is a royal title in the Ethiopian Semitic languages. It denotes a monarch, such as the Bahri Negus (Lord of the Seas) of the Medri Bahri kingdom in pre-1890 Eritrea, and the Negus in pre-1974 Ethiopia. The Negus is referred to as An-Najashi (النجاشي) in the Islamic tradition.\n\n\"Negus\" is a noun derived from the Ethiopian Semitic root , meaning \"to reign\". The title has subsequently been used to translate the words \"king\" or \"emperor\" in Biblical and other literature. In more recent times, it was used as an honorific title bestowed on governors of the most important provinces (kingdoms): Gojjam, Welega and the seaward kingdom (where the variation Bahr Negasi \"King of the Sea\", was the ancient title of the ruler of present-day central Eritrea) and later Shewa.\n\nBoth uses and the imperial dignity would meet in the person of a regional prince, Lij Kassa Hailu, the third youngest son of \"Däjazmač\" Hailu Wolde-Giyorgis, Governor of Qwara Province, by his second wife Woizero Attitaggab. He rebelled against Empress Menen and her son, the Viceroy \"Ras\" Ali II of Yejju, in 1845 and spent the next nine years alternating between rebellion and submission until he was proclaimed negus at Amba Chera on 19 September 1854, and after the Battle of Derasge proclaimed himself emperor on 8 February 1855 and was crowned as Tewodros II, at Derasge Maryam the next day.\n\n"}
{"id": "15356441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15356441", "title": "Peace Review", "text": "Peace Review\n\nPeace Review is an international research journal in the growing field of peace and conflict studies. The journal is published quarterly by the Taylor & Francis Group, under the Routledge imprint, and is a fully peer-reviewed academic journal.\n\nThe journal aims to focus on \"current issues and controversies that underlie the promotion of a more peaceful world\" (journal website). This is a deliberately wide scope, and thus one can find within the journal a wide range of articles on issues relevant for peace, including articles dealing with peace and conflict, education, development, ecology, discrimination, human rights, and culture and ethnicity.\n\nThe journal was commenced in 1992 by John Harris at Stanford University, although the editorship was soon assumed by Robert Elias at the University of San Francisco. The editorial board of the journal has over the years included eminent peace researchers, such as Elise M. Boulding and Johan Galtung. The journal currently receives funding from the Catholic Social Thought Project at the University of San Francisco and the Jesuit Foundation.\n\nAs often is the case with scholarly journals, the journal has undergone name changes. The full name of the journal was previously \"Peace Review: A Transnational Quarterly\", although the full name of the journal is now \"Peace Review: A Journal of Social Justice,\" reflecting the way that social justice concerns are now generally regarded as intrinsic to peace.\n\nIn 2000 the journal was awarded the Project Censored Award and the journal is currently a Utne Media Award finalist.\n\nOne of the specific aspects of the journal is the transnational readership, in that the journal is distributed to more than 90 countries. Thus the journal aims to avoid speaking with the voice of any particular national culture or politics. Another prominent aspect of the journal is that it aims to reach an informed yet non-specialist readership. Thus the journal attempts to publish accessible and relatively short essays, as free as possible from specialist jargon. However, being a privatised journal, readers not associated with subscribing universities must pay a fee to access each article, effectively putting the journal beyond the reach of many independent researchers and many students from developing countries.\n\nThe journal abstracted in most political and social science abstracts.\n\n"}
{"id": "46572040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46572040", "title": "Peter Done", "text": "Peter Done\n\nPeter Eric Done (born February 1947) is an English billionaire businessman, ‘founder’ and group managing director of Peninsula Business Services, established in 1983 by his brother. He also co-founded, with his brother Fred Done, the bookmaking chain Betfred, which has more than 1,350 betting shops in the UK.\n\nPeter Eric Done was born in Salford, Lancashire, England in February 1947.\n\nDone is the co-founder and group managing director of Peninsula Business Services, established in 1983, and which claims to be the UK’s largest provider of employment law, HR, health & safety and EAP consultancy services.\n\nIn November 2013, it was announced Peter Done was set to invest a further £1.6 million in the enhancement and development of his HR and Absence Management system, HROnline app.\n\nIn April 2015, the Sunday Times estimated the brothers' joint net worth at £1.0 billion.\n"}
{"id": "27498238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27498238", "title": "Pirate Parties International", "text": "Pirate Parties International\n\nPirate Parties International (PPI) is a not-for-profit international non-governmental organisation with its headquarters in Brussels, Belgium. Formed in 2010, it serves as a worldwide organisation for Pirate Parties, currently representing members from 42 countries. The Pirate Parties are political incarnations of the freedom of expression movement, trying to achieve their goals by the means of the established political system rather than through activism. In 2017 PPI had been granted special consultative status to the United Nations Economic and Social Council.\n\nThe PPI statutes give its purposes as:\nto help establish, to support and promote, and to maintain communication and co-operation between pirate parties around the world.\n\nThe PPI advocate on the international level for the promotion of the goals its Members share such as protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the digital age, consumer and authors rights oriented reform of copyright and related rights, support of information privacy, transparency and free access to information.\n\nThe name \"Pirates\" itself is a reappropriation of the title that was given to internet users by the representatives of the music and film industry, and does not refer to any illegal activity.\n\nThe first Pirate party was the Swedish Piratpartiet, founded on 1 January 2006.\nOther parties and groups were formed in Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland, and Spain. In 2007, representatives of these parties met in Vienna, Austria to form an alliance and plan for the 2009 European Parliament elections. Further conferences were held in 2008 in Berlin and Uppsala, the latter leading to the \"Uppsala Declaration\" of a basic platform for the elections.\n\nIn September 2008, Andrew Norton (United States) was appointed as coordinator of the PPI collective. In August 2009 he stepped down and passed the function of coordinator over to the \"coreteam\" led by Patrick Mächler and Samir Allioui.\n\nIn 2009, the original Pirate Party won 7.1% of the vote\nin Sweden's European Parliament elections and won two of Sweden's twenty MEP seats, inspired by a surge in membership following the trial and conviction of three members of the ideologically aligned Pirate Bay a year earlier.\n\nOn 18 April 2010, the Pirate Parties International was formally founded in Brussels at the PPI Conference from April 16 to 18.\n\nAt the 2009 conference of Pirate Parties International in Uppsala (Sweden), European Pirate parties agreed on a common declaration of the parties' goals for the upcoming election of the European Parliament.\nCentral issues of the declaration are:\n\n\nAt 2012 conference of Pirate Parties International in Prague (Czech Republic), European Pirate parties agreed to run in the elections to the European Parliament in the year 2014 with a common program as well as establish a European political party. The declaration has been followed by conferences in Potsdam and Barcelona to work on the structure of the legal body to come and the statutes for it.\n\nIn February 2015, Pirate Party Australia resigned from PPI due to serious disagreement with the direction and management of the organisation. In the same month, Pirate Party UK also resigned and in March the Belgian Pirate Party suspended its membership within PPI.\n\nOn 20 April 2015, the Pirate Party of Iceland voted overwhelmingly to leave PPI. A member of the executive, Arnaldur Sigurðarson, reported a 96.56% vote in favour of leaving, adding: “PPI has been pretty much useless when it comes to its objectives which should be to encourage international cooperation between Pirate Parties.”\n\nIn May 2015, the Pirate Party of Sweden resolved with a significant majority to leave PPI, cancelling their observer status.\n\nIn July 2016, the Pirate Party of Canada officially withdrew from Pirate Parties International citing ongoing troubles with the organization as well as a failure to adequately provide any accomplishments over its history.\n\nThe PPI is governed by a board, formerly led by two co-chairs, and since Warsaw conference of 2015 by a chair and a vice-chair. Policy, governance, and applications for membership are the responsibility of the PPI General Assembly which must convene at least once per year. By the current rules, board members are elected for a two-year term, half of the board being elected every year.\n\nSee Pirate Party and List of Pirate Parties for an overview of all Pirate Parties around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "42950494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42950494", "title": "Pontianak incidents", "text": "Pontianak incidents\n\nThe Pontianak incident consisted of two massacres which took place in Kalimantan during the Japanese occupation of the Dutch East Indies. One of them is also known as the Mandor Affair. The victims were from a wide variety of ethnic groups, and the killings devastated the Malay elite of Kalimantan, with all the Malay Sultans of Kalimantan executed by the Japanese.\n\nIn the 1943-1944 Pontianak incident, the Japanese orchestrated a mass arrest of Malay elites, Arabs, Chinese, Javanese, Menadonese, Dayaks, Bugis, Bataks, Minangkabau, Dutch, Indians, and Eurasians in Kalimantan, including all of the Malay Sultans, accused them of plotting to overthrow Japanese rule, and then massacred them. The Japanese falsely claimed that all of those ethnic groups, and organisations such as the Islamic Pemuda Muhammadijah, were involved in a plot to overthrow the Japanese and create a \"People's Republic of West Borneo\" (Negara Rakyat Borneo Barat).\n\nThe Japanese claimed that, \"Sultans, Chinese, Indonesian government officials, Indians and Arabs, who had been antagonistic to each other, joined together to massacre Japanese\", naming the Sultan of the Pontianak Sultanate as one of the \"ringleaders\" in the planned rebellion. Up to 25 aristocrats, relatives of the Sultan of Pontianak, and many other prominent individuals were named as participants in the plot by the Japanese and then executed at Mandor.\n\nThe Sultans of Pontianak, Sambas, Ketapang, Soekadana, Simbang, Koeboe, Ngabang, Sanggau, Sekadau, Tajan, Singtan, and Mempawa were all executed by the Japanese; respectively, their names were Sjarif Mohamed Alkadri, Mohamad Ibrahim Tsafidedin, Goesti Saoenan, Tengkoe Idris, Goesti Mesir, Sjarif Saleh, Goesti Abdoel Hamid, Ade Mohamad Arif, Goesti Mohamad Kelip, Goesti Djapar, Raden Abdul Bahri Danoe Perdana, and Mohammed Ahoufiek. They are known as the \"12 Dokoh\". In Java, the Japanese jailed Syarif Abdul Hamid Alqadrie, the son of Sultan Syarif Mohamad Alkadrie (Sjarif Mohamed Alkadri). Since he was in Java during the executions Hamid II was the only male in his family not killed, while the Japanese beheaded all 28 other male relatives of Pontianak Sultan Mohammed Alkadri.\n\nAmong the 29 people of the Sultan of Pontianak's family who were beheaded by the Japanese was the heir to the Pontianak throne. Later in 1944, the Dayaks assassinated a Japanese named Nakatani, who was involved in the incident and who was known for his cruelty. Sultan of Pontianak Mohamed Alkadri's fourth son, Pengeran Agoen (Pangeran Agung), and another son, Pengeran Adipati (Pangeran Adipati), were both beheaded by the Japanese in a public execution.\n\nThe Japanese extermination of the Malay elite of Pontianak paved the way for a new Dayak elite to arise in its place. According to Mary F. Somers Heidhues, during May and June 1945, some Japanese were killed in a rebellion by the Dayaks in Sanggau. According to Jamie S. Davidson, this rebellion, during which many Dayaks and Japanese were killed, occurred from April through August 1945, and was called the \"Majang Desa War\". The Pontianak Incidents, or Affairs, are divided into two Pontianak incidents by scholars, variously categorised according to mass killings and arrests, which occurred in several stages on different dates.\n\nThe Pontianak incident negatively impacted the Chinese community in Kalimantan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22636310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22636310", "title": "Propyl benzoate", "text": "Propyl benzoate\n\nPropyl benzoate is an organic chemical compound used as a food additive. It is an ester.\n\nPropyl benzoate has a nutty odor and sweet fruity or nut-like taste, and as such, it is used as a synthetic flavoring agent in foods. It also has antimicrobial properties and is used as a preservative in cosmetics. It occurs naturally in the sweet cherry and in clove stems, as well as in butter.\n\nPropyl benzoate can be synthesized by the transesterification of methyl benzoate with propanol.\nPropyl benzoate can also be synthesized by means of Fischer esterification of benzoic acid with propanol.\n"}
{"id": "29068259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29068259", "title": "Psychiatric reform in Italy", "text": "Psychiatric reform in Italy\n\nPsychiatric reform in Italy is the reform of psychiatry which started in Italy after the passing of Basaglia Law in 1978 and terminated with the very end of the Italian state mental hospital system in 1998. Among European countries, Italy was the first to publicly declare its repugnance for a mental health care system which led to social exclusion and segregation. The psychiatric reform was also a consequence of a public debate sparked by Giorgio Coda's case and stories collected and analyzed in Alberto Papuzzi's book \"Portami su quello che canta\". \n\nThe reform was directed towards the gradual dismantling of the psychiatric hospitals and required a comprehensive, integrated and responsible community mental health service. The object of community care is to reverse the long-accepted practice of isolating the mental ill in large institutions, to promote their integration in the community offering them a milieu which is socially stimulating, while avoiding subjecting them to too intense social pressures.\n\nIn August, 1971, Franco Basaglia became the director of the provincial psychiatric hospital located in Trieste. With a group of young physicians not yet influenced by traditional psychiatry, such as Giorgio Antonucci, who worked on the dismantling of two mental hospitals of Imola,—as well as psychologists, volunteers and students, Basaglia started an intense project for the theoretical-practical criticism of the institution of the asylum. At that time, there were approximately 1,200 patients in the San Giovanni psychiatric hospital, most of them were under compulsory treatment. From 1971 to 1974, the efforts of Franco Basaglia and his equipe were directed at changing the rules and logic which governed the institution, putting the hierarchy in question, changing the relations between patients and operators, inventing new relations, opportunities and spaces, and restoring freedom and rights to the inmates.\n\nIn the hospital being transformed, guardianship was substituted by care, institutional abandonment by the full assumption of responsibility for the patient and their condition, while the negation of the individual through the concept of illness-danger was replaced by the conferring of importance and value to individual life histories. Any form of physical containment and shock therapy was suppressed, the barriers and mesh which had enclosed the wards were removed, doors and gates were opened,\ncompulsory hospitalizations became voluntary and definitive ones were revoked, thus the patients regained their political and civil rights.\n\nMichele Tansella specified the main characteristics of the Italian experience:\n\nThe closure of various hospital settings became possible because of constant reduction of in-patients number which in the course of years had the following dynamics:\nGiovanna Russo and Francesco Carelli state that back in 1978 the Basaglia reform perhaps could not be fully implemented because society was unprepared for such an avant-garde and innovative concept of mental health. Thirty years later, it has become more obvious that this reform reflects a concept of modern health and social care for mental patients. The Italian example originated samples of effective and innovative service models and paved the way for deinstitutionalisation of mental patients.\n\n\nArchive Giorgio Antonucci\n"}
{"id": "21174902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21174902", "title": "Ray Powell (police officer)", "text": "Ray Powell (police officer)\n\nInspector Ray Powell is a senior British Police Officer who held the position of President of the National Black Police Association from September 2003 to November 2005. \n\nPowell joined the South Yorkshire Police Service in 1984, and was based at police headquarters in Snigg Hill, Sheffield, serving for eighteen years and rising to the rank of sergeant before being elected as deputy general secretary of the NBPA in November 2002. Powell subsequently took up the presidency when the previous holder left. In this post he represented 3,000 black staff across the country and helped to formulate policies affecting police forces nationally. At the time of his appointment he said:\n\nIn October 2003, a month after assuming the presidency, and following the failure of talks over the reinstatement of suspended Superintendent Ali Dizaei, Powell called for a boycott of Metropolitan Police recruitment campaigns, warning that the NBPA could not encourage black and Asian recruits to join a force that practised racial discrimination. Dizaei was subsequently reinstated. \n\nPowell also urged that an undercover BBC reporter who investigated racism among police recruits in Cheshire should not be prosecuted. In the event, the Crown Prosecution Service decided there was insufficient evidence to proceed with the case against the so-called 'secret policeman'. \n\nIn August 2004 Powell described complaints from white officers that they had been rejected for promotion in favour of black or Asian officers as 'the whining of a few unsuccessful white officers trying to test the system'. His remark was prompted by the revelation that nearly half the race discrimination cases outstanding against the Met had been brought by white officers. 'If you ask anybody in the police what positive action is,' Powell argued, 'they would not have a clue: therefore they interpret it as positive action against them.'\n\nIn March 2005 Powell told \"Police Review\" that officers who were 'diversity opportunists' posed as much danger to the service as 'overt' racists. Referring to diversity training, Powell claimed that problem staff in middle management were either 'diversity opportunists' who used diversity training as a 'badge' for their career enhancement, or 'postmodern racists' who would 'use the system' against ethnic minority staff, by only paying lip-service to the diversity agenda. \n\nPowell is currently the Head of Operational Equality Diversity Human Rights for the National Policing Improvement Agency, with the rank of Inspector.\n\nAt the time of his appointment as NBPA president, Powell lived in Sheffield and was a married father of two.\n"}
{"id": "39722585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39722585", "title": "Revolutionary spontaneity", "text": "Revolutionary spontaneity\n\nRevolutionary spontaneity (also known as spontaneism) is a tendency to believe that social revolution can and should occur \"spontaneously\" from below, without the aid or guidance of a vanguard party, and that it cannot and should not be brought about by the actions of individuals or parties who might attempt to foment such a revolution.\n\nIn his work \"What is to be Done?\" (1902), Vladimir Lenin argued fiercely against revolutionary spontaneity as a dangerous \"revisionist\" concept that strips away the disciplined nature of Marxist political thought and leaves it arbitrary and ineffective. Rosa Luxemburg and the Spartacist League, which had attempted to overturn capitalism during the 1919 German Revolution, would become main targets of Lenin's attacks after World War I.\n\nSpontaneism, however, remained a popular theory in opposition to the Third International's democratic centralism, and influenced the autonomist movement in the 1970s. Its influences can be felt in some parts of today's alter-globalization movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "28267215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28267215", "title": "Terry O'Gorman", "text": "Terry O'Gorman\n\nTerry O'Gorman is a lawyer in Queensland, Australia and is the president of the Australian Council for Civil Liberties. In 1979, O'Gorman was elected President of the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties and served as president until 1985. He again held presidency from 1990 to 1994. He is currently the Vice President of the QCCL. \n\nO'Gorman specialises in criminal law, yet it was the area of Aboriginal Aid in which he first commenced his legal career. An influential member of the QCCL, \"it was during the days as a university student and under the rule of Joh Bjelke-Petersen that he first became aware of the need to protect civil rights.\" In 2003 he pleaded guilty to drink driving after the vehicle he was driving rolled in to a police car. In 2008 O'Gorman commented that \"civil liberties on the streets have improved, but the battle has moved to a 'law and order auction' being played out in the media, which used to be centred around the political cycle but now appears to be a permanent fixture.\"\n\nRaised in Brisbane, he was one of 15 children raised in a Catholic family which included two police officers, another lawyer, and three nuns. His upbringing could be described as right wing. As a university student during the Bjelke Petersen years, O'Gorman became aware of the need to fight for human rights. His early working years were spent with Aboriginal Legal Aid. It was there that he noticed the brutal treatment of indigenous Australians at the hands of the police. Taking matters into their own hands, O'Gorman and colleagues began secretly taping the police. This resulted in a number of miscarriage of justice cases being proved. \n\nBy cross-examining Joh Bjelke Petersen during the Fitzgerald Inquiry, he was instrumental in changing the thinking and mindset of judges and politicians who refused to believe that the police were abusing their positions of power.\n\nIn later years O'Gorman became involved in the Australian Council of Civil Liberties. He has also been involved in a number of issues involving racism, treatment of asylum-seekers, the introduction of the Smart Card and the Go card. He has also been critical of the way that Australia's police have dealt with indigenous Australians, and the resulting Deaths in custody.\n\nAt present he is a lawyer with Robertson O'Gorman Solicitors. He is President of the Australian Council for Civil Liberties and also the Vice President of the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties.\n\nIn July 2010 it was reported in major newspapers around Australia that people have had their movements tracked by using the Go Card. It had turned out that Australian police had been accessing the Go Card records to find out about the movements of certain people. O'Gorman had commented that he wasn't surprised that the police were accessing Go Card records, stating that previous concerns asserting that Go Cards would be used for surveillance had been justified. O'Gorman also stated that he was unsure if his Go Card was registered, as his wife had obtained it for him, but added that he would be de-registering it. As of August 2010, Queensland Police were set to appeal to the state’s privacy commissioner not to cut their access to the movements of Brisbane's commuters that were recorded on the Go Cards. \nAs a result, O'Gorman has been watching closely the developments that have been taking place.\n"}
{"id": "804003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=804003", "title": "The Establishment", "text": "The Establishment\n\nThe Establishment generally denotes a dominant group or elite that holds power or authority in a nation or organisation. The Establishment may be a closed social group which selects its own members or specific entrenched elite structures, either in government or in specific institutions.\n\nThe American Sociological Association states that the term is often used by those protesting a small group that dominates a larger organization. For example, in 1968, a group of academics set up the \"Sociology Liberation Movement\" to repudiate the leadership of the American Sociological Association, which they referred to as the \"Establishment in American sociology\".\n\nIn fact, any relatively small class or group of people having control can be referred to as \"The Establishment\"; and conversely, in the jargon of sociology, anyone who does not belong to \"The Establishment\" may be labelled an \"outsider\".\n\nAnti-authoritarian and anti-establishment ideologies tend to view establishments as illegitimate.\n\nThe term is most often used in the United Kingdom. In different contexts it may include leading politicians, senior civil servants, senior barristers and judges, aristocrats, Oxbridge academics, senior clergy in the established Church of England, the most important financiers and industrialists, governors of the BBC, and the members of and top aides to the royal family. The term in this sense is sometimes mistakenly believed to have been coined by the British journalist Henry Fairlie, who in September 1955 in the London magazine \"The Spectator\" defined that network of prominent, well-connected people as \"the Establishment\", explaining:\n\nFollowing that, the term \"the Establishment\" was quickly picked up in newspapers and magazines all over London, making Fairlie famous. However, the term had been used by Ralph Waldo Emerson in a similar fashion, a century earlier. Nevertheless, the Oxford English Dictionary would cite Fairlie's column as its \"locus classicus\".\n\nHowever, author and professor Carroll Quigley of Georgetown University, in his book \"The Anglo-American Establishment\", used the term much more specifically than did Fairlie. In that book (copyright date 1981), (according to an out-of-print edition):\n\nThat society was established by Cecil Rhodes in 1891 and, following Rhodes' death in 1902, was carried on by Alfred Milner, which society, Quigley refers to as the \"Milner Group\", but sometimes referred to as the Round Table movement. That group, with significant American input, would, following the Paris Peace Conference of 1919, establish and control the Royal Institute for International Affairs, later to become known as Chatham House.\n\nMuch more generally, this use of the word, \"Establishment\", may have been influenced by the British term, \"established church\", for the official Church of England. The term was then found useful in discussing the power elites in many other countries. The English word is now used as a loanword in many other languages.\n\nThe term, \"establishment\" is often used in Australia to refer both to the main political parties and also to the powers behind those parties. In the book, \"Anti-political Establishment Parties: A Comparative Analysis\" by Amir Abedi (2004), Amir Abedi refers to the Labor Party and the Coalition Parties (the Liberal Party and the National/Country Party) as the establishment parties. It is communally thought that the Coalition parties are more closely aligned to the American and particularly the British political \"establishment\" than is the Labor Party. This would seem to be borne out by the fact that many more former members of the Coalition parties have been honoured by the monarchy for services to the Commonwealth.\n\nThe original Canadian Establishment began as a mix between the British and U.S. models, combining political appointments and business acumen. The Family Compact is the first identifiable Canadian Establishment in Anglophone Canada. In francophone Canada, the local leaders of the Catholic Church also played a major role.\n\nThe journalist Peter C. Newman defined the modern \"Canadian Establishment\" in his 1975 book The Canadian Establishment. It catalogued the richest individuals and families living in Canada at the time. All of the specific people he identified were prominent business leaders, especially in the media and in public transit. Newman reports that several of these old families have maintained their importance into the 21st century.\n\nAccording to Anglo-American journalist Peter Brimelow, Newman's establishment was overshadowed by a new class. His book The Patriot Game \"makes a swinging attack on the political, bureaucratic, and academic establishment whose entire well-being rests on the promotion of Canadian nationalism. [He] identifies the federal Liberal party as the selfish and thoughtless inventor of this modern activity of creating a Canadian identity, he argues that it is now a pervasive disease throughout Canada's national political and cultural elite.\"\n\nThe term \"Official Ireland\" is commonly used in the Republic of Ireland to denote the media, cultural and religious establishment.\n\nThe term is also used in politics of Hong Kong and Macau, where political parties, community groups, chambers of commerce, trade unions and individuals who are cooperative with and loyal to the Communist Party of China and the post-handover Hong Kong Government are labelled (most often self-labelled) \"pro-Beijing\" or \"pro-establishment\". The term first appeared in 2004.\n\nDeemed the Deep State.The terminology is used in Pakistan to describe the cooperative federation of the powerful military and military led Intelligence agencies . The idea of Establishment is no different from \"The Establishment\" in the United Kingdom. However establishment in Pakistan is much stronger than anyother entity.\n\nThe Establishment's sphere mainly consists of the country's high-ranking military officers particularly military Generals belonging to Punjab . Others included are senior civil servants, members of the Judiciary, the most important financiers and industrialists and the media moguls. The Establishment in Pakistan considers the key and elite decision makers in country's public policy, ranging from the use of the intelligence services, national security, foreign and domestic policies. They are believed to be behind the 1999 Pakistani coup d'état and are behind the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf government and its current ascension to power. \n\n"}
{"id": "12828405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12828405", "title": "Twenty-second Amendment of the Constitution Bill 2001", "text": "Twenty-second Amendment of the Constitution Bill 2001\n\nThe Twenty-second Amendment of the Constitution Bill, 2001 was an unenacted bill introduced by the government of the 28th Dáil to amend the Constitution of Ireland, to establish a body for the investigation of judges, and to alter the procedure for the removal of judges.\n\nThe impetus for the bill was the \"Philip Sheedy Affair\". Sheedy's 1997 prison sentence was remitted in an irregular manner in 1998 by one judge after intervention from another judge acquainted with Sheedy's sister. The media broke the story in 1999 and the government responded to the controversy by asking the Chief Justice to make a report, which criticised the conduct both judges, who each resigned after initially stating they would not. The ad-hoc nature of the investigation and the voluntary nature of the sanctions were considered unsatisfactory. In 2000, a report into the affair by the Committee on Court Practice and Procedure declined to make recommendations regarding practice and procedure in criminal courts, because of \"serious issue of a constitutional nature relating to the separation of powers\".\n\nThe bill was published on 27 March 2001, the same day as bills for amendments numbered 21, 23, and 24. The government wanted to expedite passage of all four bills through the Oireachtas to have simultaneous referendums on 7 June, before the summer holidays. The Twenty-second Amendment bill passed its second reading on 1 May 2001, and the committee stage was scheduled for the following day. Overnight, the Minister for Justice John O'Donoghue tabled 14 amendments to the Bill, a procedure which the Opposition condemned as cavalier; in the absence of cross-party support the government withdrew the Bill from the Order Paper. It lapsed when the 28th Dáil dissolved. The Twenty-third Amendment passed at referendum; there is therefore a gap in the numbering since there is no Twenty-second Amendment to the Constitution.\n\nIn 2010, the Government announced the Judicial Council Bill 2010, which aims to address the same issues without amending the Constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21254884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21254884", "title": "Two Hundred Years Together", "text": "Two Hundred Years Together\n\nTwo Hundred Years Together (, ) is a two-volume historical essay by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn. It was written as a comprehensive history of Jews in the Russian Empire, the Soviet Union and modern Russia between the years 1795 and 1995, especially with regard to government attitudes toward Jews.\n\nSolzhenitsyn published this two-volume work on the history of Russian–Jewish relations in 2001 and 2002. The book stirred controversy, and many historians reported it as unreliable in factual data. Some historians classified it as antisemitic. The book was published in French and German in 2002–2003. A partial English translation is found in \"The Solzhenitsyn Reader\".\n\nIn the first volume, Solzhenitsyn discusses the history of Russians and the 100,000 Jews that had migrated to Russia between 1772 and the revolution of 1917. He asserts that the anti-Jewish pogroms in the Russian Empire were not government-sponsored but spontaneous acts of violence, except for some government culpability in the Pale of Settlement. Solzhenitsyn says that life for Russian Jews was hard but no harder than life for Russian peasants. The second volume covers the post-revolution era up to 1970 when many Jews left Russia for Israel and other western countries. Solzhenitsyn says that the Jews who participated in Russian revolutions were effectively apostates splitting from the spirit of tradition. Solzhenitsyn emphatically denies that Jews were responsible for the revolutions of 1905 and 1917. At the end of chapter nine, Solzhenitsyn denounces \"the superstitious faith in the historical potency of conspiracies\" that leads some to blame the Russian revolutions on the Jews and to ignore the \"Russian failings that determined our sad historical decline.\"\n\nSolzhenitsyn criticizes the \"scandalous\" weakness and \"unpardonable inaction\" that prevented the Russian imperial state from adequately protecting the lives and property of its Jewish subjects. But he claims that the pogroms were in \"almost\" every case organized from \"below\" and not by the Russian state authorities. He criticizes the \"vexing,\" \"scandalous\", and \"distressing\" restrictions on the civil liberties of Jewish subjects during the final decades of the Russian old regime. On that score, in chapter ten of the work he expresses his admiration for the efforts of Pyotr Stolypin (Prime Minister of Russia from 1906 until 1911) to eliminate all legal disabilities against Jews in Russia.\n\nIn the spirit of his 1974 essay \"Repentance and Self-Limitation in the Life of Nations\", Solzhenitsyn calls for the Russians and Russian Jews alike to take responsibility for the \"renegades\" in both communities who supported a totalitarian and terrorist regime after 1917. At the end of chapter 15, he writes that Jews must answer for the \"revolutionary cutthroats\" in their ranks just as Russians must repent \"for the pogroms, for...merciless arsonist peasants, for...crazed revolutionary soldiers.\" It is not, he adds, a matter of answering \"before other peoples, but to oneself, to one's conscience, and before God.\"\n\nSolzhenitsyn also takes the anti-Communist White Movement to task for condoning violence against Jews and thus undermining \"what would have been the chief benefit of a White victory\" in the Russian Civil War: \"a reasonable evolution of the Russian state.\"\n\nThe reception of \"Two Hundred Years Together\" has been quite varied. Historian Yohanan Petrovsky-Shtern of Northwestern University published a refutation of Solzhenitsyn's claims and has accused him of anti-Semitism. On the other hand, historians such as Geoffrey Hosking and Robert Service have defended Solzhenitsyn against his opponents. Service has argued that from what he has read about the book, Solzhenitsyn is \"absolutely right,\" Jews were disproportionately represented in the early Soviet bureaucracy. Service also notes that Solzhenitsyn is very far from the anti-Semitism of the extreme Russian Right and addresses this issue in a moderate and responsible manner. In a review of volume 1 of \"Two Hundred Years Together\" that appeared in \"The New Republic\" \n\nCritics focus on Solzhenitsyn's insistence that Jews were as much perpetrators as victims in the communist repression, and that both Russians and Jews need to acknowledge their share of sin. Questions related to Jewish participation in the three Revolutions have been controversial. Vassili Berezhkov, a retired KGB colonel and historian of the secret services and the NKVD (the precursor of the KGB), said that: \"The question of ethnicity did not have any importance either in the revolution or the story of the NKVD. This was a social revolution and those who served in the NKVD and Cheka were serving ideas of social change. If Solzhenitsyn writes that there were many Jews in the NKVD, it will increase the passions of anti-semitism, which has deep roots in Russian history. I think it is better not to discuss such a question now.\" Others feel that Jews were not implicated enough to warrant a reference to Russian antisemitism, or that any notion of the collective responsibility should be avoided.\n\nSolzhenitsyn asserted that Jews were overrepresented in the early Bolshevik leadership and the security apparatus, without citing his sources. He wrote that \"from 22 ministers in the first Soviet government three were Russian, one Georgian, one Armenian and 17 Jews\". This assertion has been deemed inaccurate, with the argument that the number of Commissars in the first Soviet government on 7 November 1917 was 15, not 22, of whom 11 were ethnic Russians (Milyutin, Yelizarov, Skvortsov, Lomov, Rykov, Lenin, Shlyapnikov, Nogin, Antonov-Ovseenko, Krylenko and Avilov), two Ukrainians (Lunacharsky and Dybenko), one Pole (Teodorovich), and only one Jew (Trotsky).\n\nSolzhenitsyn stated: \"I had to bury many comrades at the front, but not once did I have to bury a Jew\". He also stated that according to his personal experience, Jews had a much easier life in the GULAG camps that he was interned in.\n\nThe book has been described by historian Richard Pipes of Harvard University as \"a conscious effort to show empathy for both sides,\" and exonerating Jews for responsibility for the revolution: \"No, in no way can it be said that Jews 'made' the revolution of 1905 or 1917 as it was not made by another nation taken as a whole\". At the same time Pipes notes that Solzhenitsyn is \"too eager to exonerate czarist Russia of mistreating its Jewish subjects, and as a consequence is insensitive to the Jews' predicament\". In Richard Pipes' opinion, the book absolves Solzhenitsyn from the taint of antisemitism, although he thinks the author’s nationalism prevents him from being fully impartial, and that Solzhenitsyn is using outdated and inadequate sources. Pipes asserts that Solzhenitsyn failed to consider the \"poisonous atmosphere in which Jews lived for generations in the Russian empire (an atmosphere originating in Russian Orthodox and nationalist circles)\". In particular, Pipes notes that Solzhenitsyn failed to discuss \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\", a Russian anti-Semitic forgery.\n\nSolzhenitsyn was accused by the Northwestern University historian Yohanan Petrovsky-Shtern of using unreliable and manipulated figures, while ignoring evidence unfavorable to his own point of view and, in particular, ignoring numerous publications of reputable authors in Jewish history. Petrovsky says that Solzhenitsyn claims that Jews promoted alcoholism among the peasantry, flooded the retail trade with contraband, and \"strangled\" the Russian merchant class in Moscow. He says that according to Solzhenitsyn, Jews are non-producing people (\"непроизводительный народ\") and refuse to engage in factory labor. They are averse to agriculture and unwilling to till the land either in Russia, in Argentina, or in Palestine, and the author blames the Jews' own behavior for pogroms. He says that Solzhenitsyn also claims that Jews used Kabbalah to tempt Russians into heresy, seduced Russians with rationalism and fashion, provoked sectarianism and weakened the financial system, committed murders on the orders of qahal authorities, and exerted undue influence on the prerevolutionary government. Petrovsky summarizes his critique by stating that \"\"200 Years Together\" is destined to take a place of honor in the canon of russophone antisemitica.\"\n\nA critical analysis was published by the Russian-American historian Semyon Reznik. According to Reznikm Solzhenitsyn is careful in his vocabulary, generous in compliments toward Jews and maintains a neutral tone throughout, but at the same time he not only condones repressive measures against Jews, but justifies them as intended for protection of the rights of Russians as the titular nation that supposedly \"greatly suffered from Jewish exploitation, alcohol mongering, usury and corruption of the traditional way of life\".\n\nHistorian and demographer Sergey Maksudov referred to \"THYT\" as \"a piece of pseudoscientific essayism\", which promulgates numerous antisemitic stereotypes of Jews as professional parasites, infiltrators into the Russian culture, and portrays repressive policies toward Jews as being \"in Jews' own interests\". Maksudov also claims that Solzhenitsyn was insensitive toward Jewish sufferings during pogroms in general, and the Kishinev pogrom in particular, and also accuses Solzhenitsyn of denying many well documented atrocities.\n\nJohn Klier, a historian at University College London, describes the charges of anti-Semitism as \"misguided\", but at the same time writes that in his account of the pogroms of the early 20th century, Solzhenitsyn is far more concerned with exonerating the good name of the Russian people than he is with the suffering of the Jews, and he accepts the tsarist government's canards blaming the pogroms on provocations by the Jews themselves.\n\nA detailed analysis of \"THYT\" and an overview of critical opinion thereon was published by the University of Waterloo professor Zinaida Gimpelevich. According to Gimpelevich, the critical opinion worldwide overwhelmingly tilts against Solzhenitsyn.\n\nGrigory Baklanov, a Russian novelist, in his critical study described \"Two Hundred Years\" as \"worthless as historical scholarship\". Baklanov, himself a World War II veteran, focuses on Solzhenitsyn's insistence on Jews' supposed wartime cowardice and unwillingness to face the enemy, which he says is contradicted both by the statistics of Jewish frontline casualties and by the high number of Jews decorated for bravery in battle.\n\nLiterary historian Leonid Katsis accuses Solzhenitsyn of numerous manipulated and selective quotations in the first volume of the book, detrimental to its trustworthiness. Cultural historian and comparatist Elisa Kriza discusses THYT in an article about anti-Semitism in Solzhenitsyn's works and explains how Solzhenitsyn's accusations towards Jewish people as a group and his treatment of Russian Jews as \"foreign\", despite being in Russia for two hundred years, are evidence of anti-Semitic rhetoric in the book.\n\nHistorians Leybelman, Levinskaya, and Abramov claim that Solzhenitsyn uncritically used writings of antisemitic pseudo-historian Andrey Dikiy for his inflated statistical data of Jewish participation in the early Soviet government and its security apparatus.\n\nMark Deutch, in a two-part review titled \"A Shameless Classic\" (\"Бесстыжий классик\"), lists numerous drawbacks, stemming, in his opinion, from biased exposition, ignoring well-known sources, self-contradictions, and factual errors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1355645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1355645", "title": "Tyrannicide", "text": "Tyrannicide\n\nTyrannicide is the killing or assassination of a tyrant or unjust ruler, usually for the common good, \nand usually by one of the tyrant's subjects.\n\nThe term originally denoted the action of Harmodius and Aristogeiton, who are often called the Tyrannicides, in killing Hipparchus of Athens in 514 BC.\n\nTyrannicide can also be a political theory, and as such dates from antiquity. Support for tyrannicide can be found in Plutarch's \"Lives\", Cicero's \"De Officiis\", and Seneca's \"Hercules Furens\". Plato describes a violent tyrant as the opposite of a good and \"true king\" in the \"Statesman\", and while Aristotle in the \"Politics\" sees it as opposed to all other beneficial forms of government, he also described tyrannicide mainly as an act by those wishing to gain personally from the tyrant's death, while those who act without hope of personal gain or to make a name for themselves are rare.\n\nVarious Christian philosophers and theologians also wrote about tyrannicide. In Thomas Aquinas's commentary on the \"Sentences\" of Peter Lombard, Aquinas gave a defense not only of disobedience to an unjust authority, using as an example Christian martyrs in the Roman Empire, but also of \"one who liberates his country by killing a tyrant.\" The Monarchomachs in particular developed a theory of tyrannicide, with Juan de Mariana describing their views in the 1598 work \"De rege et regis institutione,\" in which he wrote, the philosophers and theologians agree, that the prince who seizes the state with force and arms, and with no legal right, no public, civic approval, may be killed by anyone and deprived of his life...\"\nThe Jesuistic casuistry developed a similar theory, criticized by Blaise Pascal in the \"Provincial Letters\". Before them, the scholastic philosopher John of Salisbury also legitimised tyrannicide, under specific conditions, in the \"Policraticus\", circa 1159. His theory was derived from his idea of the state as a political organism in which all the members cooperate actively in the realization of the common utility and justice. He held that when the ruler of this body politic behaves tyrannically, failing to perform his characteristic responsibilities, the other limbs and organs are bound by their duty to the public welfare and God to correct and, ultimately, to slay the tyrant.\n\nIn 1408 the theologian Jean Petit used biblical examples to justify tyrannicide following the murder of Louis I, Duke of Orleans by Petit's patron John the Fearless, Duke of Burgundy. Petit's thesis was extensively discussed and eventually condemned by the church. \"A Shone Treatise of Politike Power\", written by John Ponet in 1556, argued that the people are custodians of natural and divine law, and that if governors and kings violated their trust, then they forfeited their power, whether they relinquished their positions voluntarily or whether they had to be removed forcefully. \"The Tenure of Kings and Magistrates\" by John Milton in 1649 also described the history of tyrannicide, and a defense of it when appropriate.\n\nCambridge's David George has also argued that terrorism is a form of tyranny of which tyrannicide is a negation. Abraham Lincoln believed that assassinating a leader is morally justified when a people has suffered under a tyrant for an extended period of time and has exhausted all legal and peaceful means of ouster.\n\nThroughout history, many leaders have died under the pretext of tyrannicide. Hipparchus, one of the last Greek leaders to use the title of \"tyrant,\" was assassinated in 514 BC by Harmodius and Aristogeiton, the original tyrannicides. Since then \"tyrant\" has been a pejorative term, lacking objective criteria. Many rulers and heads of state have been considered as such by their enemies but not by their adherents and supporters. For example, when John Wilkes Booth assassinated Abraham Lincoln in 1865, he wrote how he considered Lincoln a tyrant while comparing himself to Marcus Junius Brutus, who stabbed the Roman dictator Julius Caesar in 44 BC.\n\nTyrannicides have a poor record of achieving their intended outcome. Caesar's death, for example, failed to bring a return to republican power, and instead led to the Roman Empire, but it galvanized later assassins like Booth. Several of Caesar's successors (as Roman Emperors) were also killed for their tyrannical actions, including Caligula, who was stabbed in 41 by Cassius Chaerea and other Praetorian Guards, and Domitian, stabbed in 96 by a steward of Flavia Domitilla named Stephanus. Many attempts on Commodus's life in the late 2nd century failed, including the one instigated by his own sister Lucilla, but he ultimately fell victim to his own excess by a successful murderous coup. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, tyrannicide continued in the Byzantine Empire when Emperor Andronikos I Komnenos, was tied to a pillar, beaten, and dismembered by a mob in 1185.\n\nTyrannicide has also been connected to revolution, with many taking place during successful revolutions, and others sparking revolutionary upheavals. In the midst of the French Revolution, Maximilien Robespierre, took power as the President of the National Convention, but after leading the Reign of Terror from 1793 to 1794, he was executed by beheading by the National Convention. The Romanian Revolution, one of the Revolutions of 1989, enabled a group of defected soldiers to capture Nicolae Ceauşescu, the country's communist leader, and to stage a trial after which he was executed by a firing squad of paratroopers Ionel Boeru, Georghin Octavian and Dorin-Marian Cirlan.\n\nMany assassins have been killed in the act, such as Rigoberto López Pérez, who shot Nicaraguan dictator Anastasio Somoza García in 1956. Others were prosecuted for the killing: Antonio de la Maza and his conspirators were executed after their shooting of Rafael Trujillo, dictator of the Dominican Republic in 1961, as was Kim Jaegyu, who shot South Korean dictator Park Chung-hee in 1979. Five of the members of Young Bosnia who were involved with the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo were sentenced to death by hanging, while eleven were sentenced to various years in prison, including Gavrilo Princip who fired the fatal shot. Khalid Islambouli was one of three members of Egyptian Islamic Jihad executed for the assassination of Anwar Sadat, the autocratic President of Egypt in 1981. Even both Hipparchus's assassins were themselves killed, Harmodius on the spot and Aristogeiton after being tortured, and the major conspirators in the plot to kill Caesar were likewise killed or forced to commit suicide.\n\nOutright revolt was the context for other tyrannicides, and allowed individual killers to escape or remain anonymous. During World War II and the Italian resistance movement, Walter Audisio claimed to have led his team of partisans in the abduction and execution by firing squad of Benito Mussolini in 1945. The circumstances remain clouded, though Audisio was later elected to both the Italian Chamber of Deputies and the Italian Senate. In 1990, Samuel Doe, the President of Liberia was tortured to his death. In 1996, during their takeover of Afghanistan, Taliban soldiers captured Mohammad Najibullah, the President of the Soviet-backed Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, and dragged him to death. Saddam Hussein, President of Iraq was executed in 2006. During the 2011 Libyan civil war, Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, the self-titled \"Brother Leader and Guide of the Revolution,\" was killed in the Battle of Sirte, in unclear circumstances.\n\nTyrannicide is a popular literary trope. Many works of fiction deal with the struggle of an individual or group of individuals to overthrow and kill an unjust tyrant. Often the tyranny is caused by an usurper to a royal throne, where the conclusion restores the proper heir. Children's literature frequently deals with the subject. Folk tales like The Nutcracker include the act, as do some video games series, like The Legend of Zelda and Star Fox. Examples in Disney animation include \"The Lion King\" and \"Aladdin\" which both involve the tyrannical takeover of a monarchy and its overhaul. Fantasy works like \"The Lord of the Rings\", \"The Chronicles of Narnia\", \"The Brothers Lionheart\", \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" and science-fiction series like \"Star Wars\" and \"Doctor Who\" all deal with the killing of tyrants. Besides \"Julius Caesar\", a number of William Shakespeare's plays deal with the subject, including \"Hamlet\", \"Macbeth\", and \"Richard III\".\nAlso the Italian dramatist, poet and philosopher Vittorio Alfieri has devoted much of his work on this issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14919917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14919917", "title": "United Cities and Local Governments", "text": "United Cities and Local Governments\n\nUnited Cities and Local Governments (UCLG); French: Cités et Gouvernements Locaux Unis (CGLU); Spanish: Ciudades y Gobiernos Locales Unidos (CGLU); is an umbrella organisation for cities, local and regional governments, and municipal associations throughout the world. United Cities and Local Governments was founded in 2004, when the existing local government organisations - the International Union of Local Authorities (IULA) and the United Towns Organisations (UTO) – united their respective global networks of cities and national associations of local governments in a single organisation. United Cities and Local Governments' headquarters, the World Secretariat, is based in Barcelona, Spain. UCLG is the largest organization of sub-national governments in the world, with over 240,000 members in over 140 UN Member States and understands itself as the united voice and world advocate of democratic local self-government, de facto representing over half the world's population, the cities and association members of UCLG are present in over 120 UN Member States across seven world regions:\nThe organization’s activities include hosting meetings of mayors and other local and regional leaders, advocacy for the interests of local and regional governments at the UN, and international peer-to-peer training on local policies and practices.\n\nThe organisation’s stated mission and your work programme is:\nUCLG’s origins go back to 1913, when the Union Internationale des Villes (UIV) was set up at the International Congress of the Art of Building Cities and Organising Community Life in Ghent, Belgium. The establishment of the UIV, a permanent office for communication and documentation on municipal issues, marked the birth of the international municipal movement. The association had a Provisional Council of 30 members and its first seat was in Brussels. In 1928, the UIV changed its name to the International Union of Local Authorities (IULA). In 1948, IULA’s secretariat moved from Ghent to The Hague in the Netherlands, where it remained until 2004. \nThe United Towns Organisation (UTO) (French: Fédération mondiale des cités unies (FMCU)) was set up in 1957 in Aix-les-Bains, France. It was initially known as the World Federation of Twin Cities (French: Fédération mondiale des villes jumelées).\n\nIn 1984, then President of the Regional Council of Ile-de-France, Michel Giraud, convened the first Metropolis Congress. The constituent Congress of Metropolis was held in Montreal in April 1985, and was attended by 14 founding member cities: Abidjan, Addis Ababa, Barcelona, Buenos Aires, Cairo, Colombo, Ile-de-France, London, Los Angeles, Mexico, Montreal, New York, Tokyo and Turin. The Metropolis secretariat was initially established in Montreal, moving to Barcelona under the presidency of then Mayor of Barcelona, Joan Clos, in 2000. In 2004, three international associations of local and regional governments – the International Union of Local Authorities (IULA), United Towns Organisation (UTO), and Metropolis – agreed to come together to form a single organization at UCLG’s founding congress.\n\nUCLG is a membership organization with a democratic, federal structure. Its members include individual local and regional governments and their national associations. UCLG’s governing bodies are made up of locally elected leaders, chosen by their peers in elections by UCLG members. UCLG’s President for the 2016-2019 mandate is Parks Tau, President of the South African Local Government Association (SALGA).\n\n\nUCLG’s main policy-making body is the World Council. It has over 300 members from all world regions and meets once every three years.\n\nThe UCLG Executive Bureau is made up of 115 members. It meets twice a year and makes proposals and carries out the decisions of the World Council.\n\nThe presidency of the UCLG world network is made up of the President, six Co-Presidents, the Treasurer and the Deputy Treasurer. The presidency for the 2016-2019 period is:\n\nPresident: Parks Tau, President of the South African Association of Local Governments (SALGA)\n\nCo-Presidents:\n\n\nTreasurer: Berry Vrbanovic, Mayor of Kitchener (Canada)\n\nDeputy Treasurer: Mohamed Sadiki, Mayor of Rabat (Morocco)\n\nUCLG facilitates the Global Taskforce of Local and Regional Governments (GTF), a coordination and consultation mechanism that brings together the major international networks of local governments to undertake joint advocacy work relating to global policy processes. The Global Taskforce was set up in 2013 to bring the perspectives of local and regional governments to the SDGs, climate change agenda and New Urban Agenda, in particular. As well as UCLG, Global Taskforce participants include ICLEI and C40 Cities.\n\nThe United Nations Advisory Committee of Local Authorities (UNACLA) was established by the UN Habitat Governing Council Resolution 17/18 of 1999 as an advisory body to strengthen the dialogue of the UN System with local authorities in relation to the implementation of the Habitat Agenda. UCLG chairs UNACLA and holds 10 of its 20 seats. UCLG co-hosts the UNACLA secretariat with UN-Habitat.\n\n\n"}
