{"id": "31609470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31609470", "title": "A1one", "text": "A1one\n\nA1one () () is the pseudonym of Karan Reshad, an Iranian visual artist who pioneered graffiti and street art in Iran. His career as a street artist began in his hometown, Tehran.\n\nA1one grew up in Iran during a period of war and the Khatami reform era (1997-2005). A1one studied for 5 years at the Art and architecture university in Tehran. While still a student, he began using graffiti around the university campus, as a protest against student conditions. He was eventually expelled by the School's President following a disagreement over artistic restrictions. \n\nAfter being expelled from University, his graffiti activities in the city of Tehran increased. A1one was the first person to start painting on the city walls. His name can be interpreted as \"Alone\" or \"First One.\" A1one started painting walls in the late 1990s. He is the pioneer of the urban art scene in Middle East. When he began, it was a time when nobody knew what graffiti was in his country. He had a very influential role in the rise of street art and stenciling within Iran.\n\nAlready involved in urban arts in general, he met in 2005 the rapper Nima who told him everything about the graffiti culture which triggered A1one's desire to grow in that direction. His first significant work was a painting under the Tehran-Karaj expressway called \"Searching for Friends\".\n\nHe started his street art project in 2003 and inspired his close friends at that time to also begin painting on the streets. Artists such as Elle, isba, K.T. and Magoi were the first people to join him in Tehran. With his public space art, he describes his view on the Iranian society and puts himself regularly in danger.\n\n\"When I decided to do my painting on walls I bought some spray cans - at that time we had just some very low quality colors in Iran. My first work was a very simple work titled “searching for friends” painted on a wall right next to the Tehran-Karaj expressway late at night. It was a really frightening night for me… The next morning I got three calls from friends who recognized my style of painting. They were shocked to see my work on a public wall. My first stencil was a Munch's Scream Print on Art University walls and after that , experimented with many techniques and methods, but I continue with stencils, graffiti and sticker art.\"\n\nIn 2007, he was invited to illustrate the cover of a book, \"Young and Defiant in Iran\"; a contempary ethnographic work by Shahram Khosravi. In 2008, he was invited to show his work at the annual Melbourne Stencil Festival, taking 40 pieces of work with him to his first trip in a non-dictatorship country, thus experimenting exhibiting his artwork without the fear of reprisals for the first time.\n\nBy 2010, A1One was an established name within Tehran's youth culture and a key figure in the emergence of Iranian street art. \n\nA1one's art world is dynamic and made of many different styles, from portraits to calligraphy and funky characters which he mostly uses for his stickers. A1one's art combines Persian calligraphy and Western graffiti. His art has been documented by many photographers and featured in Art Asia Pacific Magazine.\n\nThe artist has been working on a distinctly Iranian style of calligraffiti, which is \"a fusion of hip-hop graffiti and Persian typography.\" His style is recognised across the Islamic graffiti world. He has made a handful of the greatest Style walls with Arabic letter graffiti since 2004.\n\nHe has been arrested several times and signed agreements with police not to work in streets.He attacked Iranian Artist Forum with His paintings, while The management of the Iranian artists forum did not understand his aim and stopped him and called the police.\nIn 2012 A1one was kidnapped by the Ministry of Intelligence and National Security (Iran), under the charge of social and political reasons and was held in Evin Prison for 10 days at Ward 209.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56541720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56541720", "title": "A Kay", "text": "A Kay\n\nAmrinder Singh better known by his stage name A Kay is an Indian Punjabi singer.\n\nHe debuted in Punjabi music industry with single track \"Kalyug\". This Track made him touch the youth’s mind which helped him in making his place in Pollywood. Then He Release his new Track ‘THE LOST LIFE’, Music by Sukhe Musical Doctorz and written by Preet Hundal, Which showed his various to the public. Then he came with his new Single Track \"Munda iphone warga’', which brought him fame in Pollywood. This Track crossed 10 million hits on YouTube. After the Success of his songs he was coming with his new Track ‘Kuriyan ya maape’ which Also Crossed 7 Million view on YouTube. Then he became a star in pollywood\n"}
{"id": "11572227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11572227", "title": "Abraham Kidunaia", "text": "Abraham Kidunaia\n\nSaint Abraham the Great of Kidunja (or Kidunaja) (died c. 366) was a hermit and priest of the Christian Church.\n\nThe \"Vita\" of St. Abraham was written by his friend, St. Ephrem.\n\nAbraham was born to a wealthy family near Edessa, during the third century. After receiving an excellent education, Abraham was encouraged to get married. He followed the wishes of his parents, but shortly before the wedding ceremony, he told his bride his desire to dedicate his life to God. His bride accepted this resolution and Abraham retired to a cell near the city, where he walled up the cell door, leaving only a small window open for food to be brought him.\n\nTen years after he retreated from the world, his parents died, leaving Abraham a wealthy man. He had the inheritance distributed to the poor. Abraham became known throughout the region as a holy man and many came to him for guidance. Reports of his reputation came to the bishop of Edessa who ordained him a priest and sent Abraham to Beth-Kidunaa. When Abraham destroyed the pagan idols and altars, the outraged townspeople drove him away. Abraham would return and urge them to give up their superstitions, and be driven out again. Eventually his persistence began to yield results.\n\nAbraham worked among them for the three years, when fearing that he would begin to desire material possessions he returned to his cell near Edessa where he spent the next fifty years in prayer and penance. He was known never to reprove anyone sharply but always with charity and gentleness.\n\nAround the year 360 Abraham died at the age of seventy after a long life of service to God.\n\nA popular story recounts that his orphan in care of\n\nThe feast day of Saint Abraham is October 29 in the Eastern Orthodox Church and in the Roman Catholic Church. The Syriac Catholic Church commemorates him on December 14, the Coptic Church on July 29, the Syriac Orthodox Church on October 24.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "649735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649735", "title": "Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse", "text": "Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse\n\nDuring the war in Iraq that began in March 2003, personnel of the United States Army and the Central Intelligence Agency committed a series of human rights violations against detainees in the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. These violations included physical and sexual abuse, torture, rape, sodomy, and murder. The abuses came to widespread public attention with the publication of photographs of the abuse by CBS News in April 2004. The incidents received widespread condemnation both within the United States and abroad, although the soldiers received support from some conservative media within the United States.\n\nThe administration of George W. Bush asserted that these were isolated incidents, not indicative of general U.S. policy. This was disputed by humanitarian organizations such as the Red Cross, Amnesty International, and Human Rights Watch. These organizations stated that the abuses at Abu Ghraib were not isolated incidents, but were part of a wider pattern of torture and brutal treatment at American overseas detention centers, including those in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Guantanamo Bay. Several scholars stated that the abuses constituted state-sanctioned crimes.\n\nThe United States Department of Defense removed seventeen soldiers and officers from duty, and eleven soldiers were charged with dereliction of duty, maltreatment, aggravated assault and battery. Between May 2004, and March 2006, these soldiers were convicted in courts-martial, sentenced to military prison, and dishonorably discharged from service. Two soldiers, Specialist Charles Graner and PFC Lynndie England, were sentenced to ten and three years in prison, respectively. Brigadier General Janis Karpinski, the commanding officer of all detention facilities in Iraq, was reprimanded and demoted to the rank of colonel. Several more military personnel who were accused of perpetrating or authorizing the measures, including many of higher rank, were not prosecuted. It was reported that most inmates were innocent of the crimes they were accused of and were simply detained due to their being in the wrong place at the wrong time.\n\nDocuments popularly known as the Torture Memos came to light a few years later. These documents, prepared shortly before the 2003 invasion of Iraq by the United States Department of Justice, authorized certain enhanced interrogation techniques, generally held to involve torture of foreign detainees. The memoranda also argued that international humanitarian laws, such as the Geneva Conventions, did not apply to American interrogators overseas. Several subsequent U.S. Supreme Court decisions, including \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" (2006), have overturned Bush administration policy, and ruled that Geneva Conventions apply.\n\nMany of the torture techniques used were developed at Guantánamo detention center, including prolonged isolation; the frequent flier program, a sleep deprivation program whereby people were moved from cell to cell every few hours so they couldn't sleep for days, weeks, even months, short-shackling in painful positions; nudity; extreme use of heat and cold; the use of loud music and noise and preying on phobias.\n\nThe September 11 attacks in the United States led to demands from the public that U.S. president George W. Bush take actions that would prevent further attacks. This pressure led to the launch of the War on Terror. The fact that the perceived enemies in the War on Terror were stateless individuals, and the perceived threat of extreme strategies including suicide bombing, led to a pressure on the Bush administration to act decisively. In addition, these tactics created the perception that the \"legitimate\" techniques used in the cold war would not be of much use. US vice-president Dick Cheney stated, for example, that the US \"[had] to work sort of on the dark side\", and that it had to \"use any means at [its] disposal\".\n\nThe Iraq War began in March 2003 as an invasion of Ba'athist Iraq by a force led by the United States. The Ba'athist government led by Saddam Hussein was toppled within a month. This conflict was followed by a longer phase of fighting in which an insurgency emerged to oppose the occupying forces and the post-invasion Iraqi government. During this insurgency, the United States was in the role of an occupying power.\n\nThe Abu Ghraib prison in the town of Abu Ghraib was one of the most notorious prisons in Iraq during the government of Saddam Hussein. The prison was used to hold approximately 50,000 men and women in poor conditions, and torture and execution were frequent. The prison was located on 280 acres of land 32 kilometers west of Baghdad. After the collapse of Saddam Hussein's government, the prison was looted and everything that was removable was carried away. Following the invasion, the U.S. army refurbished it and turned it into a military prison. It was the largest of several detention centers in Iraq used by the U.S. military. In March 2004, during the time that the U.S. military was using the Abu Ghraib prison as a detention facility, it housed approximately 7,490 prisoners.\n\nThree categories of prisoners were imprisoned at Abu Ghraib by the U.S. military. These were \"common criminals,\" individuals suspected of being leaders of the insurgency, and individuals suspected of committing crimes against the occupational force led by the U.S. Although most prisoners lived in tents in the yard, the abuses took place inside cell blocks 1a and 1b. The 800th Military Police Brigade, from Uniondale, New York, was responsible for running the prison. The brigade was commanded by Brigadier General Janis Karpinski, who was in charge of all of the U.S. run prisons in Iraq. She did not have previous experience in running a prison. The individuals who committed abuses at the prison were members of the 372nd Military Police Company, which was a constituent of the 320th Military Police Battalion, which was overseen by Karpinski's Brigade headquarters.\n\nThe Fay Report noted that \"contracting-related issues contributed to the problems at Abu Ghraib prison\". Over half the interrogators working at the prison were employees of CACI International, while Titan Corporation supplied linguistics personnel. In his report, General Fay notes that \"The general policy of not contracting for intelligence functions and services was designed in part to avoid many of the problems that eventually developed at Abu Ghraib...\"\n\nIn June 2003, Amnesty International published reports of human rights abuse by the U.S. military and its coalition partners at detention centers and prisons in Iraq. These included reports of brutal treatment at Abu Ghraib prison, which had once been used by the government of Saddam Hussein, and had been taken over by the United States after the invasion. On June 20, 2003, Abdel Salam Sidahmed, Deputy Director of AI's Middle East Program, described an uprising by the prisoners against the conditions of their detention, saying \"The notorious Abu Ghraib Prison, centre of torture and mass executions under Saddam Hussein, is yet again a prison cut off from the outside world. On 13 June there was a protest in this prison against indefinite detention without trial. Troops from the occupying powers killed one person and wounded seven.\"\n\nOn July 23, 2003, Amnesty International issued a press release condemning widespread human rights abuses by U.S. and coalition forces. The release stated that prisoners had been exposed to extreme heat, not provided clothing, and forced to use open trenches for toilets. They had also been tortured, with the methods including denial of sleep for extended periods, exposure to bright lights and loud music, and being restrained in uncomfortable positions.\n\nOn November 1, 2003, the Associated Press presented a special report on the massive human rights abuses at Abu Ghraib. Their report began; \"In Iraq's American detention camps, forbidden talk can earn a prisoner hours bound and stretched out in the sun, and detainees swinging tent poles rise up regularly against their jailers, according to recently released Iraqis.\" The report went on to describe abuse of the prisoners at the hands of their American captors: \"'They confined us like sheep,' the newly freed Saad Naif, 38, said of the Americans. 'They hit people. They humiliated people.'\" In response, U.S. Brigadier-General Janis Karpinski, at the time in charge of all U.S. detention facilities in Iraq, claimed that prisoners were being treated \"humanely and fairly.\" The AP report also stated that as of November 1, 2003, there were two legal cases pending against U.S. military personnel, one involving the beating of an Iraqi prisoner, the other about the death of a prisoner in custody.\n\nSince the beginning of the invasion, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) had been allowed to oversee the prison, and submitted reports about the treatment of the prisoners. In response to an ICRC report, Brigadier General Janis Karpinski, who oversaw all US detention facilities in Iraq, stated that several of the prisoners were intelligence assets, and therefore not entitled to complete protection under the Geneva Convention. The ICRC reports led to Lieutenant General Ricardo Sanchez, the commander of the Iraqi task force, appointing Major General Antonio Taguba to investigate the allegations on 1 January 2004. Taguba submitted his findings (the Taguba Report) in February 2004, stating that \"numerous incidents of sadistic, blatant, and wanton criminal abuses were inflicted on several detainees. This systemic and illegal abuse of detainees was intentionally perpetrated by several members of the military police guard force.\" The report stated that there was widespread evidence of this abuse, including photographic evidence. The report was not released publicly. The abuse was also perpetrated by three female military officers shown in the images on this page, where they received a wide range of attention and were convicted later on along with other several members. \n\nThe scandal came to widespread public attention In April 2004, when a \"60 Minutes II\" news report was aired on April 28 by CBS News, describing the abuse, including pictures showing military personnel taunting naked prisoners. An article was published by Seymour M. Hersh in \"The New Yorker\" magazine (posted online on April 30 and published days later in the May 10 issue), which also had a widespread impact. The photographs were subsequently reproduced in the press across the world. The details of the Taguba report were made public in May 2004. Shortly afterwards, U.S. President George W. Bush stated that the individuals responsible would be \"brought to justice,\" while United Nations General Secretary Kofi Annan said that the effort to reconstruct a government in Iraq had been badly damaged.\n\nOn December 21, 2004, the American Civil Liberties Union released copies of internal memoranda from the Federal Bureau of Investigation that it had obtained under the Freedom of Information Act. These discussed torture and abuse at prisons in Guantanamo Bay, Afghanistan, and Iraq. One memorandum dated May 22, 2004 was from an individual described as the \"On Scene Commander – Baghdad,\" but whose name had been redacted. This individual referred explicitly to an Executive Order that sanctioned the use of extraordinary interrogation tactics by U.S. military personnel. The torture methods sanctioned included sleep deprivation, hooding prisoners, playing loud music, removing all detainees' clothing, forcing them to stand in so-called \"stress positions\", and the use of dogs. The author also stated that the Pentagon had limited use of the techniques by requiring specific authorization from the chain of command. The author identifies \"physical beatings, sexual humiliation or touching\" as being outside the Executive Order. This was the first internal evidence since the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse affair became public in April 2004 that forms of coercion of captives had been mandated by the president of the United States.\n\nDocuments obtained by \"The Washington Post\" and the ACLU showed that Ricardo Sanchez, who was a Lieutenant General and the senior U.S. military officer in Iraq, authorized the use of military dogs, temperature extremes, reversed sleep patterns, and sensory deprivation as interrogation methods in Abu Ghraib. A November 2004 report by Brigadier General Richard Formica found that many troops at the Abu Ghraib prison had been following orders based on a memorandum from Sanchez, and that the abuse had not been carried out by isolated \"criminal\" elements. ACLU lawyer Amrit Singh said in a statement from the union that \"General Sanchez authorized interrogation techniques that were in clear violation of the Geneva Conventions and the army's own standards.\"\nIn an interview for her hometown newspaper \"The Signal\", Karpinski stated that she had seen unreleased documents from Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld which authorized the use of these tactics on Iraqi prisoners.\n\nA 2004 report by the \"New Yorker\" stated that Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld had authorized the interrogation tactics used in Abu Ghraib, and which had previously been used by the US in Afghanistan. In November 2006, Janis Karpinski, who had been in charge of Abu Ghraib prison until early 2004, told Spain's \"El País\" newspaper that she had seen a letter signed by Rumsfeld, which allowed civilian contractors to use techniques such as sleep deprivation during interrogation. \"The methods consisted of making prisoners stand for long periods, sleep deprivation ... playing music at full volume, having to sit in uncomfortably ... Rumsfeld authorized these specific techniques.\" According to Karpinski, the handwritten signature was above his printed name, and the comment \"Make sure this is accomplished\" was in the margin in the same hand-writing. Neither the Pentagon nor U.S. Army spokespeople in Iraq commented on the accusation. In 2006, a criminal complaint was filed in a German Court against Donald Rumsfeld by eight former soldiers and intelligence operatives, including Karpinski and former army counterintelligence special agent David DeBatto. Among other things, the complaint stated that Rumsfeld both knew of and authorized enhanced interrogation techniques that he knew to be illegal under international law.\n\nManadel al-Jamadi, a prisoner at Abu Ghraib prison, died after a CIA officer Mark Swanner and a private contractor (\"identified in military-court papers only as 'Clint C.'\") interrogated and tortured him in November 2003. The torture included physical violence and strappado hanging, wherein the victim is hung from the wrists with their hands tied behind their back. Although the US military labeled the death a homicide, neither of the two men who caused his death were charged. The private contractor was granted qualified immunity.\n\nIn 2004, Antonio Taguba, a major general in the U.S. Army, wrote in the Taguba Report that a detainee had been sodomized with \"a chemical light and perhaps a broomstick.\" In 2009, Taguba stated that there was photographic evidence of rape having occurred at Abu Ghraib. An Abu Ghraib detainee told investigators that he heard an Iraqi teenage boy screaming, and saw an Army translator raping him, while a female soldier took pictures. A witness identified the alleged rapist as an American-Egyptian who worked as a translator. In 2009, he was the subject of a civil court case in the United States. Another photo shows an American soldier apparently raping a female prisoner. Other photos show interrogators sexually assaulting prisoners with objects including a truncheon, wire and a phosphorescent tube, and a female prisoner having her clothing forcibly removed to expose her breasts. Taguba supported United States President Barack Obama's decision not to release the photos, stating, \"These pictures show torture, abuse, rape and every indecency.\" Obama, who initially agreed to release the photographs, changed his mind after lobbying from senior military figures, saying their release could put troops in danger and \"inflame anti-American public opinion\".\n\nIn other instances of sexual abuse, soldiers were found to have raped female inmates, and senior U.S. officials admitted that rape had taken place at Abu Ghraib. Some of the women who had been raped became pregnant, and in some cases, were later killed by their family members in what were thought to be instances of honor killing. In addition, children were raped by prison staff in front of watching women.\n\nIn May 2004, the \"Washington Post\" reported evidence given by Ameen Saeed Al-Sheik, detainee No. 151362. It quoted him as saying; \"They said we will make you wish to die and it will not happen [...] They stripped me naked. One of them told me he would rape me. He drew a picture of a woman to my back and made me stand in shameful position holding my buttocks.\" \"'Do you pray to Allah?' one asked. I said yes. They said, '[Expletive] you. And [expletive] him.' One of them said, 'You are not getting out of here health[y], you are getting out of here handicapped. And he said to me, 'Are you married?' I said, 'Yes.' They said, 'If your wife saw you like this, she will be disappointed.' One of them said, 'But if I saw her now she would not be disappointed now because I would rape her.' \" [...] \"They ordered me to thank Jesus that I'm alive.\" [...] \"I said to him, 'I believe in Allah.' So he said, 'But I believe in torture and I will torture you.'\"\n\nOn January 12, 2005, \"The New York Times\" reported on further testimony from Abu Ghraib detainees. The abuses reported included urinating on detainees, pounding wounded limbs with metal batons, pouring phosphoric acid on detainees, and tying ropes to the detainees' legs or penises and dragging them across the floor.\n\nIn her video diary, a prison guard said that prisoners were shot for minor misbehavior, and claimed to have had venomous snakes used to bite prisoners, sometimes resulting in their deaths. The guard said that she was \"in trouble\" for having thrown rocks at the detainees. Hashem Muhsen, one of the naked prisoners in the human pyramid photo, later said the men were also forced to crawl around the floor naked while soldiers rode them like donkeys.\n\nOn May 7, 2004, Pierre Krähenbühl, Operations Director for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), stated that inspection visits made by the ICRC to detention centers run by the U.S. and its allies showed that acts of prisoner abuse were not isolated acts, but were part of a \"pattern and a broad system.\" He went on to say that some of the incidents they had observed were \"tantamount to torture\".\n\nArmed forces in the U.S. and the UK are jointly trained in techniques known as \"resistance to interrogation (R2I)\" techniques. These R2I techniques are taught ostensibly to help soldiers cope with, or resist, torture if they are captured. On May 8, 2004, \"The Guardian\" reported that according to a former British special forces officer, the acts committed by the Abu Ghraib prison military personnel resembled the techniques used in R2I training.\n\nThe same report stated that:\nHistorian Alfred W. McCoy, who authored a book on torture in the Philippines armed forces, noted similarities in the abusive treatment of prisoners at Abu Ghraib and the techniques described in the KUBARK Counterintelligence Interrogation manual published by the United States Central Intelligence Agency in 1963. He asserts that what he calls \"the CIA's no-touch torture methods\" have been in continuous use by the CIA and the U.S. military intelligence since that time.\n\nOn November 1, 2003, the Associated Press published a lengthy report on inhumane treatment, beatings, and deaths at Abu Ghraib and other American prisons in Iraq. This report was based on interviews with released detainees, who told journalist Charles J. Hanley that inmates had been attacked by dogs, made to wear hoods, and humiliated in other ways. The article gained little notice. One freed detainee said that he wished somebody would publish pictures of what was happening.\n\nWhen the U.S. military first acknowledged the abuse in early 2004, much of the United States media once again showed little initial interest. On January 16, 2004, the United States Central Command informed the media that an official investigation had begun involving abuse and humiliation of Iraqi detainees by a group of U.S. soldiers. On February 24, it was reported that 17 soldiers had been suspended. The military announced on March 21, 2004, that the first charges had been filed against six soldiers. None of these stories received significant coverage in the mainstream press.\n\nIn late April 2004, the U.S. television news-magazine \"60 Minutes II\", a franchise of CBS, broadcast a story on the abuse. The story included photographs depicting the abuse of prisoners. The news segment was delayed by two weeks at the request of the Department of Defense and Richard Myers, an air force general and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. After learning that \"The New Yorker\" magazine planned to publish an article and photographs on the topic in its next issue, CBS proceeded to broadcast its report on April 28. In the CBS report, Dan Rather interviewed then-deputy director of Coalition operations in Iraq, Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt, who said:\n\nKimmitt also acknowledged that he knew of other cases of abuse during the American occupation of Iraq. Bill Cowan, a former Marine lieutenant colonel, was also interviewed, and said: \"We went into Iraq to stop things like this from happening, and indeed, here they are happening under our tutelage.\" In addition, Rather interviewed Army Reserve Staff Sergeant Ivan Frederick, who was party to some of the abuses. Frederick's civilian job was as a corrections officer at a Virginia prison. He said, \"We had no support, no training whatsoever. And I kept asking my chain of command for certain things ... like rules and regulations, and it just wasn't happening.\" Frederick's video diary, sent home from Iraq, provided some of the images used in the story. In it he listed detailed, dated, entries that chronicled abuse of CIA prisoners, as well as their names: \"The next day the medics came in and put his body on a stretcher, placed a fake [intravenous drip] in his arm and took him away. This [CIA prisoner] was never processed and therefore never had a number.\" Frederick implicated the Military Intelligence Corps as well, saying \"MI has been present and witnessed such activity. MI has encouraged and told us great job [and] that they were now getting positive results and information.\"\n\nIn 2004, Seymour M. Hersh published an article in \"The New Yorker\" magazine discussing the abuses in detail, and used as its source a copy of the Taguba report. Under the direction of editor David Remnick, the magazine also posted a report on its website by Hersh, along with a number of images of the torture taken by U.S. military prison guards. The article, entitled \"Torture at Abu Ghraib\", was followed in the next two weeks by two further articles on the same subject, \"Chain of Command\" and \"The Gray Zone\", also by Hersh.\n\nIn February 2006, previously unreleased photos and videos were broadcast by SBS, an Australian television network, on its \"Dateline\" program. The Bush administration attempted to prevent release of the images in the U.S., arguing that their publication could provoke antagonism. These newly released photographs depicted prisoners crawling on the floor naked, being forced to perform sexual acts, and being covered in feces. Some images also showed prisoners killed by the soldiers, some shot in the head and some with slit throats. BBC World News stated that one of the prisoners, who was reportedly mentally unstable, was considered by prison guards as a \"pet\" for torture. The UN expressed hope that the pictures would be investigated immediately, but the Pentagon stated that the images \"have been previously investigated as part of the Abu Ghraib investigation.\"\n\nOn March 15, 2006, Salon published what was then the most extensive documentation of the abuse. A report accessed by Salon included the following summary of the material: \"A review of all the computer media submitted to this office revealed a total of 1,325 images of suspected detainee abuse, 93 video files of suspected detainee abuse, 660 images of adult pornography, 546 images of suspected dead Iraqi detainees, 29 images of soldiers in simulated sexual acts, 20 images of a soldier with a Swastika drawn between his eyes, 37 images of Military Working dogs being used in abuse of detainees and 125 images of questionable acts.\"\n\nThe news website AsiaNews quoted Yahia Said, an Iraqi scholar at the London School of Economics, as saying: \"The reception [of the news about Abu Ghraib] was surprisingly low-key in Iraq. Part of the reason was that rumors and tall stories, as well as true stories, about abuse, mass rape, and torture in the jails and in coalition custody have been going round for a long time. So compared to what people have been talking about here the pictures are quite benign. There's nothing unexpected. In fact what most people are asking is: why did they come up now? People in Iraq are always suspecting that there's some scheming going on, some agenda in releasing the pictures at this particular point.\" CNN reporter Ben Wedeman reported that Iraqi reaction to George W. Bush's apology for the Abu Ghraib abuses was \"mixed\": \"Some people react[ed] positively, saying that he's come out, he's dealing frankly and openly with the problem and that he has said that those involved in the abuse will be punished. On the other hand, there are many others who says it simply isn't enough, that they—many people noted that there was not a frank apology from the president for this incident. And, in fact, I have a Baghdad newspaper with me right now from—it's called 'Dar-es-Salaam.' That's from the Islam Iraqi Islamic Party. It says that an apology is not enough for the torture [...] of Iraqi prisoners.\"\n\nGeneral Stanley McChrystal, who held several command positions in the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, said that, \"In my experience, we found that nearly every first-time jihadist claimed Abu Ghraib had first jolted him into action.\" He also said that, \"mistreating detainees would discredit us. ... The pictures [from] Abu Ghraib represented a setback for America's efforts in Iraq. Simultaneously undermining U.S. domestic confidence in the way in which America was operating, and creating or reinforcing negative perceptions worldwide of American values, it fueled violence\".\n\nOn May 7, 2004 Nick Berg, an American businessman who went to Iraq after the US Invasion, was captured and decapitated by the Islamist militant organization al-Ansars in response to Abu Ghraib. The masked man who carried out the execution is believed to have been Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.\n\nThe Bush administration did not initially acknowledge the abuses at Abu Ghraib. After the pictures were published and the evidence became incontrovertible, the initial reaction from the administration characterized the scandal as an isolated incident uncharacteristic of U.S. actions in Iraq. Bush described the abuses as the actions of a few individuals, who were disregarding the values of the US. This view was widely disputed, notably in Arab countries. In addition, the International Red Cross had been making representations about abuse of prisoners for more than a year before the scandal broke. Scholars studying the abuses have stated that the abuses were part of a widespread pattern. Vice-president Dick Cheney's office had played a central role in eliminating limits on coercion in U.S. custody, commissioning and defending legal opinions that the administration later portrayed as the initiatives of lower-ranking officials. On May 7, 2004, United States Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld stated in a hearing before the Senate Armed Services Committee:\n\nHe also commented on the very existence of the evidence of abuse:\nRumsfeld was careful to draw a distinction between abuse and torture: \"What has been charged so far is abuse, which I believe technically is different from torture. I'm not going to address the 'torture' word.\"\n\nSeveral senators commented on Rumsfeld's testimony. Lindsey Graham stated that \"the American public needs to understand we're talking about rape and murder here.\" Norm Coleman said that \"It was pretty disgusting, not what you'd expect from Americans\". Ben Nighthorse Campbell said \"I don't know how the hell these people got into our army\".\n\nJames Inhofe, a Republican member of the U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Services, stated that the events were being blown out of proportion: \"I'm probably not the only one up at this table that is more outraged by the outrage than we are by the treatment [...] [They] are not there for traffic violations. [...] these prisoners—they're murderers, they're terrorists, they're insurgents. [...] Many of them probably have American blood on their hands. And here we're so concerned about the treatment of those individuals.\"\n\nOn May 26, 2004, Al Gore gave a sharply critical speech on the scandal and the Iraq War. He called for the resignations of Rumsfeld, National Security Advisor Condoleezza Rice, CIA Director George Tenet, Deputy Secretary of Defense Paul Wolfowitz, Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Douglas J. Feith, and Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence Stephen A. Cambone, for encouraging policies that led to the abuse of Iraqi prisoners and fanned hatred of Americans abroad. Gore also called the Bush administration's Iraq war plan \"incompetent\" and described Bush as the most dishonest president since Richard Nixon. Gore commented; \"In Iraq, what happened at that prison, it is now clear, is not the result of random acts of a few bad apples. It was the natural consequence of the Bush Administration policy.\" Rumsfeld was also criticized by both Republican and Democrat lawmakers, including Senators John Kerry, and Joe Biden, and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi.\n\nThe revelations were also the impetus for the creation of the Fay Report, named for its lead author George Fay, as well as the Taguba Report.\n\nSeveral periodicals, including \"The New York Times\" and \"The Boston Globe\", called for Rumsfeld's resignation. The cover of \"The Economist\", which had backed President Bush in the 2000 election, carried a photo of the abuse with the words \"Resign, Rumsfeld.\"\n\nRight-wing radio host Rush Limbaugh contended that the events were being blown out of proportion, stating that \"this is no different than what happens at the Skull and Bones initiation, and we're going to ruin people's lives over it and we're going to hamper our military effort, and then we are going to really hammer them because they had a good time. You know, these people are being fired at every day. I'm talking about people having a good time, these people, you ever heard of emotional release? You ever heard of emotional release?\" Conservative talk show host Michael Savage said, \"Instead of putting joysticks, I would have liked to have seen dynamite put in their orifices\", and that \"we need more of the humiliation tactics, not less.\" He repeatedly referred to Abu Ghraib prison as \"Grab-an-Arab\" prison.\n\nThe Bahraini English-language newspaper \"Daily Tribune\" wrote on May 5, 2004, that \"The blood-boiling pictures will make more people inside and outside Iraq determined to carry out attacks against the Americans and British.\" The Qatari Arabic-language \"Al-Watan\" predicted on May 3, 2004 that due to the abuse, \"The Iraqis now feel very angry and that will cause revenge to restore the humiliated dignity.\"\n\nOn May 10, 2004, swastika-covered posters of Abu Ghraib abuse photographs were attached to British and Indian graves at the Commonwealth military cemetery in Gaza City. Thirty-two graves of soldiers killed in World War I were desecrated or destroyed. In November 2008, Lord Bingham, the former UK Law Lord, describing the treatment of Iraqi detainees in Abu Ghraib, said: \"Particularly disturbing to proponents of the rule of law is the cynical lack of concern for international legality among some top officials in the Bush administration.\"\n\nEleven soldiers were convicted of various charges relating to the incidents, with all of the convictions including the charge of dereliction of duty. Most soldiers only received minor sentences. Three other soldiers were either cleared of charges or were not charged. No one was convicted for the murders of the detainees.\n\n\n\nThe Final Report of the Independent Panel to Review Department of Defense detention operations specifically absolved U.S. military and political leadership from culpability: \"The Panel finds no evidence that organizations above the 800th MP brigade or the 205th MI Brigade-level were directly involved in the incidents at Abu Ghraib.\"\n\nThe United States has ratified the United Nations Convention against Torture and the Third and Fourth Geneva Conventions. The Bush Administration took the position that: \"Both the United States and Iraq are parties to the Geneva Conventions. The United States recognizes that these treaties are binding in the war for the 'liberation of Iraq'\".\nThe Convention Against Torture defines torture in the following terms:\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch:\nThe International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) concluded in its confidential February 2004 report to the Coalition Forces (CF) that it had documented \nThere were several major violations described in the ICRC report. These included brutality against protected persons upon capture and initial custody, sometimes causing death or serious injury; absence of notification of arrest of persons deprived of their liberty to their families causing distress among persons deprived of their liberty and their families; physical or psychological coercion during interrogation to secure information; prolonged solitary confinement in cells devoid of daylight; excessive and disproportionate use of force against persons deprived of their liberty resulting in death or injury during their period of internment.\n\nSome legal experts have said that the United States could be obligated to try some of its soldiers for war crimes. Under the Third and Fourth Geneva Conventions, prisoners of war and civilians detained in a war may not be treated in a degrading manner, and violation of that section is a \"grave breach\". In a November 5, 2003 report on prisons in Iraq, the Army's provost marshal, Maj. Gen. Donald J. Ryder, stated that the conditions under which prisoners were held sometimes violated the Geneva Conventions.\n\nIn December 2005, John Pace, human rights chief for the United Nations Assistance Mission in Iraq (UNAMI), criticized the U.S. military's practice of holding Iraqi prisoners in Iraqi facilities such as Abu Ghraib. Pace stated that this practice was not mandated by UN Resolution 1546, according to which the U.S. government has claimed a legal mandate permitting its ongoing occupation of Iraq. Pace said, \"All except those held by the Ministry of Justice are, technically speaking, held against the law because the Ministry of Justice is the only authority that is empowered by law to detain, to hold anybody in prison. Essentially none of these people have any real recourse to protection and therefore we speak ... of a total breakdown in the protection of the individual in this country.\"\n\nAlberto Gonzales and other senior administration lawyers argued that detainees at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp and other similar prisons should be considered \"unlawful combatants\" and were not protected by the Geneva Conventions. These opinions were issued in multiple memoranda, known today as the \"Torture Memos,\" in August 2002, by the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) in the U.S. Justice Department. They were written by John Yoo, deputy assistant attorney-general in the OLC, and two of three were signed by his boss Jay S. Bybee. (The latter was appointed as a federal judge in 2003, starting March 21, 2003.) An additional memo was issued on March 14, 2003, after the resignation of Bybee, and just prior to the American invasion of Iraq. In it, Yoo concluded that federal laws prohibiting the use of torture did not apply to U.S. practices overseas. Gonzales observed that denying coverage under the Geneva Conventions, \"substantially reduces the threat of domestic criminal prosecution under the War Crimes Act.\" Congressman Elizabeth Holtzman wrote that Gonzales's statement suggested that policy was crafted to ensure that the actions of U.S. officials could not be considered war crimes.\n\nIn \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\" (2006), the US Supreme Court ruled that Common Article Three of the Geneva Conventions applied to all detainees in the War on Terror. It said that the military tribunals used to try these suspects were in violation of U.S. and international law. It said that the president could not unilaterally establish such tribunals, and that Congress needed to authorize a means by which detainees could confront their accusers and challenge their detention.\n\nOn June 27, 2011, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear the appeals of lawsuits from a group of 250 Iraqis who wanted to sue CACI International Inc. and Titan Corp. (now a subsidiary of L-3 Communications), the two private contractors at Abu Ghraib, over claims of abuse by interrogators and translators at the prison. The suits had been dismissed by the lower courts on the grounds that the companies held a derivative sovereign immunity from suits based on their status as government contractors pursuant to a battle-field preemption doctrine.\n\nOn November 14, 2006, legal proceedings invoking universal jurisdiction were begun in Germany against Donald Rumsfeld, Alberto Gonzales, John Yoo, George Tenet and others for their alleged involvement in prisoner abuse under the command responsibility. On April 27, 2007, the German federal prosecutor announced that the government would not pursue charges against Rumsfeld and the 11 other U.S. officials, stating the accusations did not apply, in part because there was insufficient evidence that the acts occurred on German soil, and because the accused did not live in Germany.\n\nIn June 2011, the Justice Department announced it was opening a grand jury investigation into CIA torture which killed a prisoner.\n\nIn June 2014, the U.S. court of appeals in Richmond, Virginia, found that an 18th-century law known as the Alien Tort Statute, allowed non-US citizens access to U.S. courts for violations of \"the law of nations or a treaty of the United States\". This would enable abused Iraqis to file suit against contractor CACI International. Employees of CACI International are being accused of encouraging torture and abuse as well as taking part in it as the four Iraqi's contend that they were \"repeatedly shot in the head with a taser gun\", \"beaten on the genitals with a stick\", and forced to watch the \"rape [of] a female detainee\", during their time at the prison.\n\nCritics consider the Military Commissions Act of 2006 an amnesty law for crimes committed in the War on Terror by retroactively rewriting the War Crimes Act. It abolished habeas corpus for foreign detainees, effectively making it impossible for detainees to challenge crimes committed against them.\n\nOn October 29, 2007, the memoir of a soldier stationed in Abu Ghraib, Iraq from 2005 to 2006 was published. \"Torture Central\" chronicled many events previously unreported in the news media, including torture that continued at Abu Ghraib over a year after the abuse photos were published.\n\nIn 2010, the last of the prisons were turned over to the Iraqi government to run. An Associated Press article said \n\nIn September 2010, Amnesty International warned in a report titled \"New Order, Same Abuses; Unlawful Detentions and Torture in Iraq\" that up to 30,000 prisoners, including many veterans of the U.S. detention system, remain detained without rights in Iraq and are frequently tortured or abused. Furthermore, it describes a detention system that has not evolved since Saddam Hussein's regime, in which human rights abuses were endemic with arbitrary arrests and secret detention common and a lack of accountability throughout the military forces. Amnesty's Middle East and North Africa director, Malcolm Smart went on to say: \"Iraq's security forces have been responsible for systematically violating detainees' rights and they have been permitted. U.S. authorities, whose own record on detainees' rights has been so poor, have now handed over thousands of people detained by U.S. forces to face this catalogue of illegality, violence and abuse, abdicating any responsibility for their human rights.\"\n\nOn October 22, 2010, nearly 400,000 secret United States Army field reports and war logs, detailing torture, summary executions and war crimes, were passed on to the British paper, \"The Guardian\", and several other international media organisations through the whistleblowing website WikiLeaks. Among other things, the logs detail how U.S. authorities failed to investigate hundreds of reports of abuse, torture, rape, and even murder by Iraqi police and soldiers, whose conduct appeared to be systematic and normally unpunished, and that U.S. troops abused prisoners for years even after the Abu Ghraib scandal.\n\nIn 2013, Associated Press stated that Engility Holdings, of Chantilly, Virginia, paid $5.28 million in a settlement to 71 former inmates held at Abu Ghraib and other U.S.-run detention sites between 2003 and 2007. The settlement was the first successful attempt by the detainees to obtain reparations for the abuses they had experienced.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7319438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7319438", "title": "Abu Yahya ibn Abd al-Haqq", "text": "Abu Yahya ibn Abd al-Haqq\n\nAbu Yahya ibn Abd al-Haqq (died 1258?) was a Marinid ruler. He was the son of Abd al-Haqq I and the brother of both Uthman I and Muhammad I. During his time as leader of the Marinids, they capture and make Fès their capital. The Almohads attempt a retaliatory strike against the Marinids but it is not successful.\n"}
{"id": "11696820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11696820", "title": "Abundantius", "text": "Abundantius\n\nAbundantius is the name of several Christian saints:\n\nAbundantius of Putignano, died as a martyr. His relics are venerated at Putignano. His feast day is celebrated on March 22.\n\nAbundantius of Fiesole, was a deacon and martyr - see Abundius and Abundantius.\n\nAbundantius of Ossuna, became a martyr with Leo and Donatus.\n\n"}
{"id": "430172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430172", "title": "Ali al-Ridha", "text": "Ali al-Ridha\n\n'Alī ibn Mūsā ar-Riḍā (), also called Abu al-Hasan, \"Ali al-Reza\" ( 29 December 765 – 23 August 818) or in Iran (Persia) as Imam Reza (), was a descendant of the Prophet Muhammad and the eighth Shi'ite Imam, after his father Musa al-Kadhim, and before his son Muhammad al-Jawad. He was an Imam of knowledge according to the Zaydi (Fiver) Shia school and Sufis. He lived in a period when Abbasid caliphs were facing numerous difficulties, the most important of which was Shia revolts. The Caliph Al-Ma'mun sought out a remedy for this problem by appointing Al-Ridha as his successor, through whom he could be involved in worldly affairs. However, according to the Shia view, when Al-Ma'mun saw that the Imam gained even more popularity, he decided to correct his mistake by poisoning him. The Imam was buried at the Imam Reza shrine in a village in Khorasan, which afterwards gained the name Mashhad, meaning the place of martyrdom.\n\nOn the eleventh of Dhu al-Qi'dah, 148 AH (29 December 765 CE), a son was born in the house of Imam Musa al-Kadhim (the seventh Imam of Twelver Shia Islam) in Medina. He was named Ali and titled al-Ridha, literally meaning in Arabic, \"the contented\", since it was believed that Allah was contented with him. His kunya (alternative name) was Abu'l Hasan, since he was the father of al-Hasan; the naming of a father after his son being a common practice in Arab culture. However, in the Shia sources he is commonly called \"Abu'l-Ḥasan al-Ṯānī\" (the second Abu'l Hasan), since his father, Musa al-Kadhim, was also Abu'l Hasan (he was known as \"Abu'l-Ḥasan al-Awwal\", meaning the first Abu'l Hasan). In keeping with his very high status amongst Shi'a, he has been given other honorific titles since, such as Saber, Vafi, Razi, Zakki and Vali.\n\nAli was born one month after the death of his grandfather, Ja'far as-Sādiq, and brought up in Medina under the direction of his father. His mother, Najmah, was also a distinguished and pious lady. It is said that the boy al-Ridha required a great deal of milk, so that when his mother was asked whether her milk was sufficient, she answered, \"it is not because my milk is not sufficient, but he wants it all the time, and consequently I am falling short in my prayers.\" Originally a Nubian woman, she was purchased and freed by Bibi Hamidah Khatun, the wife of Imam Ja'far al-Sadiq, who was also a Um Walad of Nubian origin. Imam Ali ibn Musa was said to be shadid udmah or aswad, meaning he had a very dark skinned or black complexion. Bibi Hamidah was a notable Islamic scholar.\n\nDisputes exist regarding the number of his offspring and their names. A group of scholars (Sunni) say that they were five sons and one daughter, and that they were: Muhammad al- Qani', al-Hasan, Ja'far, Ibrahim, al-Husayn, and 'Ayesha. Sabt ibn al-Jawzi, in his work Tadhkiratul-Khawass ( تذکرۃ الخواص, Introduced eminence of the heirs of Muhammad The Prophet of Islam), says that the sons were only four, dropping the name of Husayn from the list.\n\nThe eighth Imam had reached the Imamate, after the death of his father, through Divine Command and the decree of his forefathers, especially Imam Musa al-Kadhim, who would repeatedly tell his companions that his son Ali would be the Imam after him. As such, Makhzumi says that one day Musa al-Kadhim summoned and gathered us and entitled him as \"his executor and successor.\" From the onset, al-Kadhim preferred al-Ridha to the rest of his sons, informing them, \"This is your brother ‘Ali b. Musa’, who is the scholar of the Household of Muhammad. Question him about your beliefs and memorize what he says to you, for I heard my father, Ja'far al-Sadiq say: ‘The scholar of the Household of Muhammad, may Allah bless him and his Household, is in your loins. Would that I met him, for he is the namesake of (Imam Ali) the Commander of the faithful.' \"\n\nYazid ibn Salit has also related a similar narration from the seventh Imam when he met him on his way to Mecca: \"Ali, whose name is the same as the First and the fourth Imam, is the Imam after me.\" Said the Imam. However, due to the extreme choking atmosphere and pressure prevailed in the period of Musa al-Kazim, he added, \"What I said must remain (restricted) up to you and do not reproduce it to anybody unless you know he is one of our friends and companions.\" The same is narrated from Ali bin Yaqtin, from Imam Musa al-Kazim who has said \"Ali is the best of my children and I have conferred on him my epithet\" According to Wāqedī, even in his youth, Ali al-Ridha would transmit Hadith from his father and his uncles and gave Fatwa in the mosque of Medina. Ali al-Ridha was not looked upon favorably by Hārūn Rashīd; and the people of Medina were disallowed from visiting and learning from him. According to Donaldson he was twenty or twenty-five years old when he succeeded his father as Imam in Medina, and it was about eighteen years later, when the Caliph Al-Ma'mun \"undertook to ingratiate himself with the numerous Shia parties by designating Ali ar-Ridha as his successor to the Caliphate.\"\n\nAfter the death of Harun al-Rashid in 809, Harun's two sons began fighting for control of the Abbasid Empire. One son, Al-Amin, had an Arab mother and thus had the support of Arabs, while his half-brother Al-Ma'mun had a Persian mother and the support of Persia. After defeating his brother, al-Ma'mun faced many insurrections from the followers of the Prophet's family in many areas.\n\nThe Shia of al-Ma'mun's era, like the Shia of today, who made a large population of al-Ma'mun's Iran, regarded the Imams as their leaders who must be obeyed in all aspects of life, spiritual and terrestrial, as they believed in them as the real caliphs of the Islamic Prophet, Muhammad. The Abbasids, like the Umayyads before them, realized this as a big threat to their own caliphate, since the Shias saw them as usurpers of al-Ma'mun which was far from the sacred status of their Imams. Allamah Tabatabaei writes in his book Shi'ite Islam, that in order to quiet the many Shia rebellions around his government, al-Ma'mun summoned Imam al-Ridha to Khorasan and wanted to offer him the role of Crown Prince to prevent the Shias and relatives of al-Ridha from rebelling against the government, seeing as they would then be fighting their own Imam; secondly, to cause the people to lose their spiritual belief and inner attachment to the Imams, because the Imam would be associated with the corrupt government of al-Ma'mun. Thirdly, he intended it to fool other Shias into believing that his government was not so bad after all, because al-Ridha would then come into power after Ma'mun. And fourthly, he wanted to keep a close watch over the Imam of the Shias himself, so that nothing could happen without al-Ma'mun's knowledge.\n\nWord spread quickly among al-Ma'mun's circles that al-Ma'mun was not sincere in his offer to make Ali ibn Musa al-Ridha the Crown Prince, and that it was simply a political move. Al-Ma'mun also became paranoid and thought that al-Ridha would see through it as well, and so would his Shias. In order to quiet the doubts of the people, al-Ma'mun first offered al-Ridha the caliphate itself. He wrote a letter to the Abbasids, who were displeased with his decision to entrust al-Ridha the seat of the caliphate, saying:\nAl-Ridha, who knew the real reason of this offer, politely refused it and said:\n\nAl-Ma'mun kept trying to make his offer seem sincere and kept re-offering the caliphate, and finally moved on to his real plan to make his Crown Prince be Ali al-Ridha. In the document where he pledges allegiance to Ali al-Ridha, Ma'mun writes: His (al-Ma’mu’n’s) choosing ‘Ali b. Musa’ b. Ja‘far b. Muhammad b. ‘Ali b. al-Husayn b. ‘Ali b. Abu’ Ta’lib was after asking Allah for the best and exerting himself in accomplishing His right toward His servants and His Earth concerning the two houses in general (i.e., the ‘Abba’sid House and the ‘Alawide Family, may Allah increase it in honor). That is because he (al-Ma’mu’n) has seen his (the Imam’s) brilliant excellence, his plain knowledge, his manifest piety, his pure asceticism, his renouncing the world, and his being safe from the people. It has become clear for him that reports, tongues, and words have unanimously agreed upon his candidacy. Besides, he knew of his excellence as a youth and through adolescence, so he has appointed him as his successor after him.When Imam al-Ridha also declined this position, al-Ma'mun threatened him saying \"Your ancestor Ali was chosen by the second caliph to be in a six member council to elect the third caliph, and ordered to kill any one of the six who didn't comply. If you do not accept the position of Crown Prince in my government, I will follow through on the same threat\". al-Ridha said he would accept, under the condition that none of the affairs of government would be his. He would neither appoint anyone, nor dismiss. He would not rule, or pass laws. He would only be Crown Prince in name. al-Ma'mun became happy that al-Ridha had accepted and would stay out of his way in governing, and agreed to the condition.\n\nAl-Ma'mun even changed the black Abbāsid flags to green, the traditional color of Shia Mohammad's flag and Ali's cloak. He also ordered to mint coins with names of both Al-Ma'mun and Ali al-Ridha.\n\nWhen al-Ridha was summoned to Khurasan and reluctantly accepted the role of successor to al-Ma'mun, al-Ma'mun summoned the Imam's brother, Zayd, who had revolted and brought about a riot in Medina to his court in Khorasan. Al-Ma'mun kept him free as an honor to Ali al-Ridha and overlooked his punishment.\n\nOne day, however, when Ali al-Ridha was delivering a speech in a grand assembly, he heard Zayd praising himself before the people, saying I am so and so. Ali al-Ridha asked him saying:\n\nAl-Ma'mun was very interested in working on various sciences translated into Arabic. Thus he arranged debates between the Imam and Muslim scholars and the leaders of religion sects who came in his presence.\nOne of the discussions was on Divine Unity with Sulaiman al-Mervi; a scholar from Khorasan, another discussion with Ali ibn Muhammad ibn al-Jahm was devoted to the sinlessness of the Prophets, which led to another debate on the same subject which Ma'mun took a great part in it himself. Many of these debates are recorded in the collections of Shia hadiths, like Oyoun Akhbar Al-Ridha. The following is an example of these debates which took place between the Imam and an unbeliever(Zindīq).\n\n(The Imam) said to him (Zindīq), \"Dost thou see that if the correct view is your view then are we not equal? All that we have prayed, fasted, given of the alms and declared of our convictions will not harm us. If the correct view is our view then have not you perished and we gained salvation?\"\nthe Man said. \"Then let me know, how is He and where is He?\" Abu-l-Hasan(the Imam)answered, \"surely the opinion thou hast adopted is mistaken. He determined the 'where', and He was, when there was no 'where'; and He fashioned the 'how', and He was, when there was no 'how'. So He is not known through 'howness' or 'whereness'\" The man said, \"So then surely He is nothing if He cannot be perceived by any of the senses.\" Abu-l-Hasan said, \"when our senses fail to perceive Him, we know for certain that He is our Lord …\" The man said, \"Then tell me, when was He?\" Abu-l-Hasan said, \"Tell when He was not, and then I will tell you when He was...\" The man said, \"Then why has He veiled Himself (from men)?\" Abu-l-Hasan replied, \"Surely the veil is upon creatures because of the abundance of their sins. As for Him, no secret is hidden from Him during the day or the night…\"\n\nThis is a long debate, entitled, \"The Veil\", full text of which could be found in the \"A Shiite Anthology\" translated by William Chittick. According to some accounts, Ma'mun's main objective of holding the meetings was a hope to render the Imam incapable of answering questions in order to undermine his popularity. It is related from al-Nawfali who quoted the Imam as saying\n\nWould you (al-Nawfali) like to know when al-Ma'mūn will feel remorseful? ...When he hears me argue with the people of the Torah quoting their own Torah, with the people of the Gospel quoting their own Gospel, with the people of the Psalms quoting their own Psalms, with the Zoroastrians arguing in their Persian language, with the Romans in their own Latin... then al-Ma'mūn will realize that he will not achieve what he aspires...\n\nAl-Risalah al-Dhahabiah (The Golden Treatise) is a treatise on medical cures and the maintenance of good health which is said to have been written in accordance with the demand of Ma'mun. It is regarded as the most precious Islamic literature in the science of medicine, and was entitled \"the golden treatise\" as Ma'mun had ordered it to be written in gold ink. It has been explained in this treatise that one's health is threatened when his blood, yellow bile, black bile and phlegm are unbalanced; and that nutrition and traditional medicine may be used to cure imbalances. Among his sayings is, \"Do you think that you are a small body, while the greatest world has folded itself in you?\" Research in the related documents, historical evidence and present volumes of this treatise indicates that even if a book titled Al-Risalah al-Dhahabiah could be attributed to Al-Ridha, it doesn't constitute that the present versions are that precise book, and it cannot be taken into use as \"Sunnah\".\n\nThe \"Sahifah\" is a collection of hadith attributed to Ali al-Ridha which was transmitted by Abdallah ibn Aḥmad ibn Amer, who heard them from his father Aḥmad, who was said to have heard it from Ali al-Ridha in 194 AH (809–10 CE) at Medina. It contains hadiths on various topics like the invocation of Allah, the importance of praying five times a day and of saying the prayer for the dead, the excellence of the household of the Prophet, of the believer, of good manners, and of strengthening the bonds of kinship, and the danger of cheating, of backbiting, and of tattling. It discusses each member of the household of the Prophet.\n\nUyun al Akhbar ar Reda is a book in which is gathered together everything that has been related about Imam from debates on religious questions and the sayings which have been recorded from him, to the explanations of the reason his name was chosen, and traditions concerning his death and the miracles which have occurred at his tomb. It is collected by Ibn Babawayh known as Al-Shaykh al-Saduq.\n\n\"Feqh al-Reżā\" (al-Rida's Jurisprudence) Also called \"al-Fiqh al-Radawi\", is also attributed to Imam al-Ridha. It was not known till the 10th/16th century when it was judged to be authentic by Muhammad Baqir Majlisi. However, most of Imami scholars doubted its authenticity.\n\nIt has been commonly held that Maruf Karkhi who was converted to Islam through Ali al-Ridha is one of the foremost figures in the golden chain of most Sufi orders. He was a devoted student of Ali al-Ridha and is an important figure for Sufism and Shi'ism. According to Corbin, although at the end of the Safavid period a Ni'mat Allahi Sufi from India named Ma'sum been sent by his spiritual master, Shaykh Shah 'Ali Rida Dakhani, to Iran and settled with his family at Shiraz, to restore the Ni'mat Allahi order in Iran, however the Sufi order while owes its name to Shah Ni'mat Allah Wali, goes back originally to the Eighth Shia Imam, the Imam 'Ali Rida through Ma'ruf al-Karkhi.\n\n\nAl-Ma'mun thought he would solve the problems of Shia revolts by naming al-Ridha as his successor. After finally being able to persuade al-Rida to accept this position, al-Ma'mun realized his mistake, for Shia began to gain even more popularity. Moreover, Arab party in Baghdad were furious when they heard that al-Ma'mun not only appointed the imam as his successor, but sent out commands that the Abbasid'd black flag should be changed to green in honor of the Imam. They were afraid that the empire would be taken from them. They got together, therefore, to depose Ma'mun and give allegiance to Ibrahim ibn al-Mahdi, who was the uncle of Ma'mun. When Ma'mun heard this, the Imam advised him to solve the problem by dismissing him from his position but he did not heed and decided to return to Baghdad and assert his rights. However, when they reached the town of Sarakhs, his vizier was assassinated, and when they reached Tus, al-Ma'mūn poisoned the Imam. Then, Muhammad Taqi imam's son came. Al-Ma'mūn ordered that he be buried next to the tomb of his own father, Harun al-Rashid, and showed extreme sorrow in the funeral ritual and stayed for three days at the place. According to Madelung the unexpected death of both the vizier and the successor, \"whose presence would have made any reconciliation with the powerful ʿAbbasid opposition in Baghdad virtually impossible, must indeed arouse strong suspicion that Ma'mun had had a hand in the deaths.\" The more popular record about his death is that he died in 203 AH, at the age of 50. The precise day is not agreed upon.\n\nThe traditional \"Kutbeh Khani\" (Sermon reciting) ritual is held on the night of killing of Imam Reza every year. The ritual, based on the order of governor Ali Shah of Khorasan in 1160 AH, involves the shrine's servants walking from the nearest street around the shrine to Inqilab yard with candles in their hands. When they arrive, they stand around the yard and began reciting the sermon, worship Allah and praise Ahl al-Bayt. This ritual is also held on the night of Ashura.\n\nWhile the \"Khutbeh-khani\" (Sermon reciting) on the night of the martyrdom of Ali al-Ridha is always on nearly the same day (30Safar) of the Islamic calendar, the date on the Gregorian calendar varies from year to year because of differences between the two calendars, since the Islamic calendar, the Hijri calendar (AH), is a lunar calendar and the Gregorian calendar is a solar calendar.\n\nToday the Imam Reza shrine in Mashhad occupies a total area of the shrine area occupies while the seven courtyards surrounding it cover an area of , together having an area larger than Masjid al-Haram and Masjid al-Nabawi (which have areas of and respectively). Based on this, some sources describe it as the largest mosque in the world.\n\nThe courtyards also contain a total of 14 minarets, and 3 fountains. From the courtyards, external hallways named after scholars lead to the inner areas of the mosque. They are referred to as Bast (Sanctuary), since they were meant to be a safeguard for the shrine areas.\n\nThe Bast hallways lead towards a total of 21 internal halls (\"Riwaq\") surrounding the burial chamber of Ali al-Ridha. Adjacent to the burial chamber is also a mosque dating back to the 10th century known as, Bala-e-Sar mosque.\n\nAl-Dhahabi, known for his enmity towards the Ahl al-Bayt, could not help but acknowledge al-Ridha's merits, saying \"He (al-Ridha’) is Imam Abu’ al-Hasan. He was the master of the Hashemites of his time; he was the most clement and noblest of them. Al Ma’mu’n honored him, yielded to him, and magniﬁed him to the extent that he appointed him as his successor.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58058853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58058853", "title": "Alton, Texas bus crash", "text": "Alton, Texas bus crash\n\nA school bus crash occurring on September 21, 1989 in Alton, Texas, in the Rio Grande Valley region, resulted in the deaths of 21 junior and senior high school students by drowning or causes related to being asphyxiated. A bottling truck collided with the school bus, causing the latter to enter a caliche pit filled with water. The driver of the truck was acquitted of negligent homicide charges. The payoffs from lawsuits compensating for the deaths of the students caused division in the Alton community. A middle school that was built in Alton was named in honor of the deceased.\n\nAccording to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Fatal Accident Reporting System (FARS), the Alton crash was the sole school bus accident in the United States in the period 1979-1989 in which passengers died due to submersion-related causes. it was the deadliest school bus accident that had ever occurred in Texas.\n\nAround 7:34 A.M., a Dr. Pepper delivery truck, operated by the Valley Coca-Cola Bottling Company, and a Mission Consolidated Independent School District school bus collided along Farm to Market Road 676, also known as 5 Mile Road/Line and Mile 5 Road/Line, at Bryan Road. The bus had, just prior to the accident, picked up its final student. There was no barrier that would have stopped the bus before it entered the caliche pit. The bus was built in 1977 and had a capacity of 84 seats. The truck was determined to have gone through a stop sign. \n\nThe students on board, ranging in age from 12 to 19, attended Mission Junior High School and Mission High School in Mission, Texas, and were from the portion of Alton that had the lowest socioeconomic status. The bus had 42 students in senior high school and 39 students in junior high school.\n\nThe bus fell into a caliche pit with about of water. Caliche pits in the area had filled with rainwater as time passed; there were no laws requiring owners of the pits to have them filled in after mining was finished. Of the 81 students on board, 11 students sustained no injuries, 46 sustained minor injuries, 3 sustained serious injuries, and 21 died; all 21 deaths were due to drowning or due to causes related to being in the water. 19 died on September 21, and an additional two died later in the hospital from complications related to the asphyxia they had experienced, with the final deceased victim dying on September 29. Both the drivers of the truck and the bus survived the accident.\n\nThe bus filled with water within 30 to 60 seconds, resulting from openings in side windows, the front boarding door, and the windshield which had become dislodged. The students did not have an air pocket which would have given them time to determine how to escape. None of the passengers experienced trauma-related injuries which would have prevented them from exiting the bus. Most of the deceased students were away from the exits, in the bus's center. The lack of visibility in the caliche-filled water prevented students from seeing available exits. In addition, some students became trapped in the windows because of their large sizes, and multiple students attempted the same routes of egress at the same time. The NTSB named the small sizes of the exits as factors inhibiting escape. According to the NTSB, the available time was \"inadequate time for 81 desperate students to escape through the available window openings and the rear emergency door that did not remain open before they were trapped underwater.\" \n\nAgents from the U.S. Border Patrol and 125 emergency vehicles from various agencies assisted in the rescue.\n\nAn American football game scheduled for September 22 was converted into a memorial service held at the Mission stadium. The McAllen and Pharr-San Juan-Alamo districts also canceled their September 22 game.\n\nThe driver of the truck, Ruben Perez, was charged in criminal court with 21 counts of homicide by negligence, but a jury acquitted him of all accounts in 1993.\n\nIn February 1990 the bottling company made the first settlement with a victim's family. The bottling company paid a total of $133 million in settlements, and it gave each family $4.5 million per deceased victim. Blue Bird Body Company (now Blue Bird Corporation) also paid a total of $23 million in settlements. The lawyers for the plaintiffs of the lawsuits received about $50 million. About 30 brothers and sisters of deceased victims received trust funds ranging in size from $50,000 to $250,000, while parents received the remainder of, and the bulk of, the settlements for victims' relatives. Some community residents criticized some of the victims' families as they used the settlement money to make large automobile or house purchases, and some community members expected those receiving settlements to lend money to them; this caused estrangement between the recipients of the settlements and other community members.\n\nIn May 1990 a guardrail system along FM 676 at the accident site was installed by the Texas Department of Highways and Public Transportation, as the City of Alton had requested. Other guardrails were installed around area caliche pits.\n\nThe 1991 novel \"The Sweet Hereafter\" received inspiration from the Alton bus crash; it was adapted into the 1997 film \"The Sweet Hereafter\".\n\nAlton Memorial Junior High School in Alton was named in honor of the victims. On September 21, 2003 the school had its dedication ceremony.\n\nIn 2004 a park developed by the city of Alton as a memorial opened; it was funded by a Texas Parks and Wildlife Department (TPWD) grant. The Josefa Garcia Park has a memorial with 21 crosses, one per deceased victim, and a statue of Jesus Christ. The memorial is at the intersection of Bryan Road and Mile 5 Line.\n\nThe city government of Alamo has possession of a boat that was a part of the rescue operations; it was making arrangements to place this boat in a museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15731007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15731007", "title": "Artificial life organizations", "text": "Artificial life organizations\n\nThis article describes organizations that promote Artificial life.\n\nISAL is a \"democratic, international, professional society dedicated to promoting scientific research and education relating to artificial life, including sponsoring conferences, publishing scientific journals and newsletters, and maintaining web sites related to artificial life\", originally incorporated in 2001\n\nSince its formation, ISAL has taken over organizing professional conferences on artificial life, alternating each year between the \"International Conference on Artificial Life\" in even years and the \"European Conference on Artificial Life\" in odd years. Each conference is uniquely identified with a Roman numeral.\n\nThe current president of ISAL is Charles Ofria from Michigan State University. From 2001-2015, the president of ISAL was Mark Bedau. The ISAL board of directors currently contains 9 elected members and 5 appointed members to carry out specific roles.\n\nThe ISAL also publishes the preeminent artificial life scholarly journal \"Artificial Life\" through MIT Press.\n\nBiota.org is run by Tom Barbalet, and \"promotes and assists the engineering of complete, biologically-inspired, synthetic ecosystems and organisms\". Biota.org ran an annual Digital Biota Conference Series from 1996 to 2001. More recently, Biota.org has hosted a \"collection of interviews, conference lectures and conversations with artificial life developers, academics and users\" through a podcast.\n\nThe Grey Thumb Society was a group of \"scientists, engineers, hackers, artists, and hobbyists... with a strong interest in artificial life, artificial intelligence, biology, complex systems, and other related topics\". Grey Thumb societies appeared around the world but by 2011 most of the groups' activities had wound down.\n\n"}
{"id": "27360653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27360653", "title": "Athenais (daughter of Herodes Atticus)", "text": "Athenais (daughter of Herodes Atticus)\n\nMarcia Annia Claudia Alcia Athenais Gavidia Latiaria, () otherwise most commonly known as Athenais () (143-161) was a Roman noblewoman of Greek Athenian and Italian Roman descent who lived in the Roman Empire.\n\nAthenais was born to a distinguished and very rich family of consular rank. She was the second daughter and among the children of the Greek Athenian Roman Senator, Sophist Lucius Vibullius Hipparchus Tiberius Claudius Atticus Herodes or Herodes Atticus and the Roman highly aristocratic, influential noblewoman Aspasia Annia Regilla.\nThe paternal grandparents of Athenais were the Roman Senator Tiberius Claudius Atticus Herodes and the wealthy heiress Vibullia Alcia Agrippina, while her maternal grandparents were the Roman Senator, Consul Appius Annius Trebonius Gallus and the aristocratic woman Atilia Caucidia Tertulla. Her paternal uncle was Tiberius Claudius Atticus Herodianus, while her paternal aunt was Claudia Tisamenis. The maternal uncle of Athenais was Appius Annius Atilius Bradua who served as an ordinary consul in 160. \n\nThrough her maternal grandfather, Athenais was a relative to the Roman Empress Faustina the Elder, wife of the Roman Emperor Antoninus Pius. Faustina the Elder was the mother of Roman Empress Faustina the Younger and aunt of Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius. Thus she was a relative to the family of Faustina the Younger and Marcus Aurelius.\n\nAthenais was born in the year of her father’s consulship in Rome. She was probably born in the villa that was owned by her parents on the Appian Way. After her father’s consulship, Athenais and her family left Italy and moved to Greece. Athenais was directly cut off from her immediate family and relatives in Italy. She and her family became a part of the highest Greek circle of society, particularly in Athens. \n\nThe parents of Athenais erected a great outdoor nymphaeum (a monumental fountain) at Olympia, Greece. The monumental fountain features statues and honors members of the ruling imperial family, including members of her family and relatives of her parents. Among the statues was a bust of Athenais which is on display at the Archaeological Museum of Olympia. \n\nThe parents of Athenais had betrothed her to an Athenian aristocrat called Lucius Vibullius Rufus. Lucius Vibullius Rufus and Athenais were paternal second cousins. Lucius Vibullius Rufus was previously married and had at least one son called Lucius Vibullius. Lucius Vibullius was adopted by Herodes Atticus as his son sometime after 160 and was known as \"Lucius Vibullius Claudius Herodes\".\n\nIn 160 Athenais married Lucius Vibullius Rufus. In 161, Athenais bore a son called Lucius Vibullius Hipparchus. Shortly after the birth of their son, Athenais died.\n\n"}
{"id": "3929318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3929318", "title": "Biocybernetics", "text": "Biocybernetics\n\nBiocybernetics is the application of cybernetics to biological science, composed of biological disciplines that benefit from the application of cybernetics including neurology and multicellular systems. Biocybernetics plays a major role in systems biology, seeking to integrate different levels of information to understand how biological systems function.\n\nBiocybernetics is an abstract science and is a fundamental part of theoretical biology, based upon the principles of systemics.\n\nBiocybernetics is a conjoined word from bio (Greek: βίο / life) and cybernetics (Greek: κυβερνητική / controlling-governing). Although the extended form of the word is biological cybernetics, the field is most commonly referred to as biocybernetics in scientific papers. Bioinformatics may also be properly referred to as bio informatics.\n\nEarly proponents of biocybernetics include Ross Ashby, Hans Drischel, and Norbert Wiener among others. Popular papers published by each scientist are listed below.\n\nRoss Ashby, \"Introduction to Cybernetics\", 1956\n\nNorbert Wiener, \"Cybernetics or Control and Communication in the Animal and the Machine\", 1948\n\nPapers and research that delve into topics involving biocybernetics may be found under a multitude of similar names, including molecular cybernetics, neurocybernetics, and cellular cybernetics. Such fields involve disciplines that specify certain aspects of the study of the living organism (for example, neurocybernetics focuses on the study neurological models in organisms).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54619154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54619154", "title": "Breastfeeding and medications", "text": "Breastfeeding and medications\n\nBreastfeeding and medications is the description of the medications that can be used by a breastfeeding mother with no or few consequences and those medications which are recommended to be avoided. Some medications are excreted in breastmilk. Almost all medicines pass into breastmilk in small amounts. Some have no effect on the baby and can be used while breastfeeding. The National Institutes of Medicine (US) maintains a database containing information on drugs and other chemicals to which breastfeeding mothers may be exposed. It includes information on the levels of such substances in breast milk and infant blood, and the possible adverse effects in the nursing infant. Suggested therapeutic alternatives to those drugs are provided, where appropriate. All data are derived from reliable sources. Some medications and herbal supplements can be of concern. This can be because the drug can accumulate in breastmilk or have effects on the infant and the mother. Those medications of concern are those medications used to treat substance and alcohol addiction. Other medications of concern are those that are used in smoking cessation. Pain medications and antidepressants need evaluation. \n\nThe determination of the safety of a medication can be evaluated by considering the following:\n\nDrugs can be categorised in one of five categories to determine how safe they are for breastfeeding:\n\n\"Drug which has been taken by a large number of breastfeeding mothers without any observed increase in adverse effects in the infant. Controlled studies in breastfeeding women fail to demonstrate a risk to the infant and the possibility of harm to the breastfeeding infant is remote; or the product is not orally bioavailable in an infant.\"\n\n\"Drug which has been studied in a limited number of breastfeeding women without an increase in adverse effects in the infant. And/or, the evidence of a demonstrated risk which is likely to follow use of this medication in a breastfeeding woman is remote.\"\n\n\"There are no controlled studies in breastfeeding women, however the risk of untoward effects to a breastfed infant is possible; or, controlled studies show only minimal non-threatening adverse effects. Drugs should be given only if the potential benefit justifies the potential risk to the infant. (New medications that have absolutely no published data are automatically categorized in this category, regardless of how safe they may be.)\"\n\n\"There is positive evidence of risk to a breastfed infant or to breastmilk production, but the benefits of use in breastfeeding mothers may be acceptable despite the risk to the infant (e.g. if the drug is needed in a life-threatening situation or for a serious disease for which safer drugs cannot be used or are ineffective).\"\n\n\"Studies in breastfeeding mothers have demonstrated that there is significant and documented risk to the infant based on human experience, or it is a medication that has a high risk of causing significant damage to an infant. The risk of using the drug in breastfeeding women clearly outweighs any possible benefit from breastfeeding. The drug is contraindicated in women who are breastfeeding an infant.\"\n\nOver the counter medications are those medications that do not require a prescription to purchase in the US. Medications that require a prescription to purchase in the US may be available in other countries without a prescription. The following guidelines are recommended:\n\n\nOther substances or chemicals have been evaluated regarding their safe use during pregnancy. Hair dye or solutions used for a 'permanent' do not pass to breastmilk. No adverse reports of using oral antihistamines and breastfeeding are found. Some of the older antihistamines used by a nursing mother can cause drowsiness in the infant. This may be a concern if the infant misses feedings by sleeping instead of nursing.\n\n"}
{"id": "17142490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17142490", "title": "Bryan Foy", "text": "Bryan Foy\n\nBryan Foy (December 8, 1896 – April 20, 1977) was an American film producer and director. He produced 214 films between 1924 and 1963. He also directed 41 films between 1923 and 1934. He headed the B picture unit at Warner Bros. where he was known as \"the keeper of the B's\".\n\nHe was born in Chicago, Illinois, on December 8, 1896. He was the eldest son of the vaudeville star Eddie Foy and appeared with his father in the vaudeville act \"Eddie Foy and The Seven Little Foys.\" The act broke up when Bryan Foy left to join the U.S. Army in World War I in 1918, after which his remaining siblings continued performing with their father under the title, \"Eddie Foy and the Younger Foys\", through 1923, when their father retired.\n\nHe was also a songwriter, and by 1916 had several published songs, including \"My Honolulu Girl\".\n\nHe produced the 20th Century Fox war movie \"Guadalcanal Diary\" in 1943.\n\nHe died in Los Angeles from a heart attack on April 20, 1977. He was buried in Calvary Cemetery, East Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "12800936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12800936", "title": "Corpse road", "text": "Corpse road\n\nCorpse roads provided a practical means for transporting corpses, often from remote communities, to cemeteries that had burial rights, such as parish churches and chapels of ease. In Britain, such routes can also be known by a number of other names, e.g.: bier road, burial road, coffin line, coffin road, corpse way, funeral road, lych way, lyke way, or procession way. etc. Such \"church-ways\" have developed a great deal of associated folklore regarding ghosts, spirits, wraiths, etc.\n\nIn late medieval times a population increase and an expansion of church building took place in Great Britain inevitably encroaching on the territories of existing mother churches or minsters. Demands for autonomy from outlying settlements made minster officials feel that their authority was waning, as were their revenues, so they instituted corpse roads connecting outlying locations and their mother churches (at the heart of parishes) that alone held burial rights. For some parishioners, this decision meant that corpses had to be transported long distances, sometimes through difficult terrain: usually a corpse had to be carried unless the departed was a wealthy individual. An example would be the funeral way that runs from Rydal to Ambleside in the Lake District where a coffin stone (\"illustrated above right\"), on which the coffin was placed while the parishioners rested, still exists. Many of the 'new' churches were eventually granted burial rights and corpse roads ceased to be used as such.\n\nMany of the corpse roads have long disappeared, while the original purposes of those that still survive as footpaths have been largely forgotten, especially if features such as coffin stones or crosses no longer exist. Fields crossed by church-way paths often had names like \"Church-way\" or \"Kirk-way Field\", and today it is sometimes possible to plot the course of some lost church-ways by the sequence of old field names, local knowledge of churches, local legends and lost features of the landscape marked on old maps, etc. One of the oldest superstitions is that any land over which a corpse is carried becomes a public right of way.\n\nAn example of a corpse road or way is that of the church of St Peter and Paul at Blockley, in Gloucestershire, which held the burial right to the inhabitants of the hamlets Stretton-on-Fosse in Warwickshire, where there was a chapel which became a rectory in the 12th century, and Aston Magna, where there was a chapel which was merely a chantry. All 'tithes' and 'mortuaries', however, came to the parish church of Blockley, to which church the people of Stretton and Aston were committed to carry their deceased for burial. The corpse road from Aston to Blockley churchyard is over two miles (3 km) long and crosses three small streams en route. The corpse road from Stretton to Blockley runs for some four miles (6 km) and crosses two streams.\n\nThe essence of deep-rooted spirit lore is that supposed spirits of one kind or another – spirits of the dead, phantasms of the living, wraiths, or nature entities like fairies move through the physical landscape along special routes. In their ideal, pristine form, at least, such routes are conceived of as being straight, having something in common with ley lines. By the same token, convoluted or non-linear features hinder spirit movement i.e. labyrinths and mazes.\nSpirits or ghosts were said to fly along on a direct course close to the ground, so a straight line connecting two places was kept clear of fences, walls, and buildings to avoid obstructing the flitting spectres. The paths would run in a straight line over mountains and valleys and through marshes. In towns, they would pass the houses closely or go right through them. The paths end or originate at a cemetery; therefore, such a path or road was believed to have the same characteristics as a cemetery, where spirits of the deceased thrive.\n\nThe corpse roads or ways were left unploughed and it was considered very bad luck if for any reason a different route had to be taken.\n\nA corpse candle or light is a flame or ball of light, often blue, that is seen to travel just above the ground on the route from the cemetery to the dying person's house and back again, and is particularly associated with Wales. A corpse fire is very similar as the name comes from lights appearing specifically within graveyards where it was believed the lights were an omen of death or coming tragedy and would mark the route of a future funeral, from the victim's house to the graveyard, where it would vanish into the ground at the site of the burial. The appearance was often said to be on the night before a death.\n\nAmong European rural people, especially in Gaelic, Slavic, and Germanic folklore, the will-o'-the-wisps are held to be mischievous spirits of the dead or other supernatural beings attempting to lead travellers astray (compare Puck). Sometimes they are believed to be the spirits of unbaptized or stillborn children, flitting between heaven and hell. Other names are Jack O' Lantern, or Joan of the Wad, Jenny Burn-tail, Kitty wi' the Whisp, or Spunkie.\n\nAnybody seeing this phenomenon might merely have been seeing, without knowing, a luminescent barn owl, at least in some instances. Much anecdotal evidence supports the fact that barn owls have a luminescence which may be due to fungal bioluminescence (foxfire). It is also possible those who have observed corpse candles may have been witnessing the effect of methane gases produced by decomposing organic material found in swamps, marshlands, and bogs.\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", Puck says:\nPuck suggests a secret history of these routes, for unsurprisingly they attracted long extant folk lore, running not only through the physical countryside but also through the invisible geography, the 'mental terrain', of pre-industrial country-folk. Shakespeare's lines leave little doubt that the physical corpse roads came to be perceived as being spirit routes, taking on qualities which lingered in the folklore of his age and which he incorporated into his play knowing that it would be a familiar concept.\n\nThe spirit roads, such as the church-ways, were always conceived of as being straight, but the physical corpse roads of the United Kingdom vary as much as any other path. Corpses were conveyed along defined corpse roads to avoid their spirits returning to haunt the living. It was a widespread custom, for example, that the feet of the corpse be kept pointing away from the family home on its journey to the cemetery. Other minor ritualistic means of preventing the return of the dead person included ensuring that the route the corpse took to burial would take it over bridges or stepping stones across running water which spirits could not cross, stiles, and various other 'liminal' (\"betwixt and between\") locations, all of which had reputations for preventing or hindering the free passage of spirits. The living took pains to prevent the dead from wandering the land as lost souls or animated corpses, for the belief in revenants (ghosts) was widespread in mediæval Europe.\n\nPeople using the corpse roads assumed that they could be passages for ghosts. The ancient spirit folklore that attached itself to the medieval and later corpse roads also may have informed certain prehistoric features. In Britain, for instance, Neolithic earthen avenues called cursuses link burial mounds: these features can run for considerable distances, even miles, and are largely straight, or straight in segments, connecting funerary sites. The purpose of these avenues is imperfectly understood, but some kind of spirit-way function may be one reasonable explanation. Similarly, some Neolithic and Bronze Age graves, especially in France and Britain, are associated with stone rows, like those at Merrivale on Dartmoor, with intriguing blocking stones at their ends.\n\nHomer Sykes in \"Mysterious Britain\" says that the 'holed' Cornish 'Tolvan' stone was used to block a now lost ancient burial chamber, and suggests that the hole allowed a way in for funeral purposes and a passage out for the spirits of the dead.\n\nIn Britain, around 4000–6000 years old, bog causeways constructed from timber have been excavated. The \"Sweet Track\" in Somerset, is one of the oldest and the excavations along this old straight track indicated that one of its uses was for transporting the dead.\n\nSome country-folk claim that if a dead body is carried across a field it will thereafter fail to produce good crop yields. Throughout the United Kingdom and Europe it still believed that touching a corpse in the coffin will allow the departed spirit to go in peace to its rest, and bring good luck to the living.\nPhantom lights are sometimes seen on the Scottish cemetery-island of Mun in Loch Leven and traditionally such lights were thought to be omens of impending death; the soul also was thought to depart the body in the form of a flame or light.\n\nIn Ireland, the \"féar gortach\" (\"hungry grass\"/\"violent hunger\") is said to grow at a place where an unenclosed corpse was laid on its way to burial. This is thought to be a permanent effect and anyone who stands on such grass is said to develop insatiable hunger. One such place is in Ballinamore and was so notorious that the woman of the nearby house kept a supply of food on hand for victims.\n\nOn Aranmore Island off Ireland each passing funeral would stop and erect a memorial pile of stones on the smooth rocky surface on the roadside enclosure.\n\nThe existence of specific coffin stones, crosses or lychgates on church-ways, suggests that these may have been specially positioned and sanctified so as to allow the coffin to be placed there temporarily without the chance of the ground becoming in some way tainted or the spirit given an opportunity to escape and haunt its place of death.\n\nGerald of Wales (Giraldus Cambrensis) in the 13th-century relates the strange story of a marble footbridge leading from the church over the Alan rivulet in Saint Davids. The marble stone was called 'Llechllafar' (the talking stone) because it once spoke when a corpse was carried over it to the cemetery for interment. The effort of speech had caused it to break, despite its size of ten feet in length, six in breadth and one in thickness. This bridge was worn smooth due to its age and the thousands of people who had walked over it, however the superstition was so widely held that corpses were no longer carried over it. This ancient bridge was replaced in the 16th century and its present location is not known.\n\nAnother legend is that Merlin had prophesied the death on Llechllafar of an English King, conqueror of Ireland, who had been injured by a man with a red hand. King Henry II went on pilgrimage to Saint David's after coming from Ireland, heard of the prophecy and crossed Llechllafar without ill effect. He boasted that Merlin was a liar, to which a bystander replied that the King would not conquer Ireland and was therefore not the king of the prophecy. This turned out to be true, for Henry never did conquer the whole of Ireland.\n\nA Devon legend tells of a funeral procession heading across Dartmoor on its way to Widecombe and the burial ground, carrying a particularly unpopular and evil old man. They reach the coffin stone and place the coffin on it while they rest. A beam of light strikes the coffin, reducing it and its contents to ashes and splitting the coffin stone. The party believes that God did not wish to have such an evil man buried in a cemetery.\n\nThe villagers in Manaton in Devon used to carry coffins three times round the churchyard cross, much to the irritation of the vicar, who opposed the superstition. Upon being ignored, he had the cross destroyed.\n\nThe 'Lych way' is a track lying to the south-west of Devil's Tor on Dartmoor. The dead from remote moorland homesteads were taken along this track to Lydford church for burial. Many reports have been made of monks in white and phantom funeral processions seen walking along this path.\n\nChilde's Tomb on Dartmoor is the site of the death of Childe who was caught in a snowstorm, killed and disembowelled his horse and climbed inside for shelter, but still froze to death. He left a message to say that the first person to bury him would get his lands at Plymstock. The greedy monks of Tavistock buried him and claimed the lands. The ghosts of monks carrying a bier have been seen at Childe's tomb.\n\nAn old woman at Fryup in Yorkshire was well known locally for keeping the \"Mark's e’en watch\" (24 April), as she lived alongside a corpse road known as the \"Old Hell Road\". In this 'watch', typically a village seer would hold a vigil between 11 pm and 1 am on St. Mark's Day, in order to look for the wraiths of those who would die in the following year.\n\nPlaces where tracks intersect are considered dangerous and are believed occupied by special spirit-guardians because they are places of transition where the world and the underworld intersect. The Celtic god Lugh indicated the right road at such places and was a guide to the traveler's footsteps. The god of the dead was the divinity of the crossroad and later Christian crosses were erected at such places.\n\nCrossroads divination was conducted in Britain and other parts of Europe, and is associated with the belief that the Devil could be made to manifest at such intersections. Crossroads lore also includes the idea that spirits of the dead could be \"bound\" (immobilized or rendered powerless) at crossroads, specifically suicides and hanged criminals, but also witches, outlaws and gypsies. The belief was that since straight routes could facilitate the movement of spirits, so contrary features like crossroads and stone or turf labyrinths could hinder it. An example of a crossroad execution-ground was the famous Tyburn, London, which stood on the spot where the Roman road to Edgware crossed the Roman road heading west out of London.\n\nThis was part of a broader fear of spirits that might flit into dwellings. Witch bottles were common throughout Europe – bottles or glass spheres containing a mass of threads, often with charms entangled in them. Its purpose was to draw in and trap evil and negative energy directed at its owner. Folk magic contends that the witch bottle protects against evil spirits and magical attack, and counteracts spells cast by witches, also forestalling the passage into habitations of witches flying about at night. A witch ball was much the same; however, a more light-hearted belief was that the witch saw her distorted face in the curved glass and was frightened away. The term witch ball is probably a corruption of \"watch ball\" because it was used as a guard against evil spirits.\n\nIf straight lines did not hinder the passage of spirits, then convoluted or tangled \"lines\" could ensnare them and ancient stone and turf labyrinths, found in many parts of Europe and Scandinavia, could serve the purpose of capturing evil spirits.\n\nDuring several dynasties of the imperial China, the pathway to the burial mound of an emperor or a high dignitary would be lined with the statues of real and fantastic animals and of the civil and military officials, and would be known as the \"shendao\" (spirit way) At major imperial mausolea, such as Ming Xiaoling in Nanjing or the Ming Dynasty Tombs near Beijing, the spirit way could be several hundreds of meters, sometimes over a kilometer, long.\n\nA straight Viking cult or Corpse road at Rosaring, Uppland, Sweden, was unearthed by archaeologists. The body of the dead Viking chieftains were drawn along it in a ceremonial wagon to the grave site. The Netherlands had the Doodwegen or Spokenwegen, the deathroads or ghostroads, converging on medieval cemeteries, some surviving in straight section fragments to this day.\n\nIn the Arenal area of Costa Rica, NASA surveys detected straight paths running considerable distances through the mountainous rainforest. Upon closer examination, these routes were found to date from CE 500-1200 and had been constructed as corpse paths, along which bodies were carried to burial.\n\n"}
{"id": "55326329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55326329", "title": "Emma Jane Greenland", "text": "Emma Jane Greenland\n\nEmma Jane Greenland (later, Emma Jane Greenland Hooker; 1760–1843) was an English painter, writer and singer. She was awarded a Gold Pallet on 14 November 1786 by the Society at London for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce. Greenland may have been a pupil of Johann Sebastian Bach, and she owned some of his manuscripts after his death.\n\nEmma Jane Greenland was born in London in 1760. Her father is thought to be Augustus Greenland. In the decade from 1772 to 1782 she studied painting with Francesco Bartolozzi at the Incorporated Society of Artists in London as well as with Giovanni Battista Cipriani and Giovan Battista Capezzuoli at the gallery of the Duke of Richmond. In order to perfect her work, she moved to Italy and in 1783, in Rome, began studying encaustic painting with Joseph Pignatelli. In 1785, in Florence, she practiced encaustic painting at the salon of Irene Parenti Duclos and thanks to her, Hooker began to attend the Royal Gallery.\n\nShe returned to London in 1786, and in the following year, published \"Curios discovery of the ancient grecian method of painting on wax\". Greenland also exhibited her self-portrait, at the Royal Academy of Arts in London as an Honorary Exhibitor. \n\nHer first communication to the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce of London, with examples of this mode of painting, was made in the year 1786, one example of which was preserved in the Society's rooms at the Adelphi. For her very successful efforts in encaustic painting, Greenland was presented with a gold palette by the Society in 1786. Her account was printed in the 10th volume of the Society's \"Transactions\" for the year 1792. \nIn the year 1807, she made a farther communication to the Society of the result of no less than 50 experiments per day, during more than four months. It was proposed that this methos painting should be called the \"Hookerian\" method.\nFrom 1801, with her husband, she directed a school for young aristocracy in Sussex, which included the grandchildren of the Duke of Wellington and Napoleon Bonaparte as students. Greenland's music career gave her great satisfaction as when Johann Christian Bach dedicated to her six sonatas for piano and violin. Her father was a witness to Bach's will and Emma wrote her name on the title page of each document and at the head of each movement. Emma may have been a pupil of Bach's.\n\nShe died in London in 1843.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "935486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=935486", "title": "Futile medical care", "text": "Futile medical care\n\nFutile medical care is the continued provision of medical care or treatment to a patient when there is no reasonable hope of a cure or benefit.\n\nSome proponents of evidence-based medicine suggest discontinuing the use of any treatment that has not been shown to provide a measurable benefit. Futile care is distinct from euthanasia because euthanasia involves active intervention to end life, while withholding futile medical care does not encourage or hasten the natural onset of death.\n\nIn the broadest sense, futile care is care that does not benefit the patient as a whole, including physical, spiritual, or other benefits. This may be interpreted differently in various legal, ethical, or religious contexts. Clinicians and health care providers may need to rely on a more narrow definition of futile care in order to make decisions about a patient's health care, and this definition often centers around an assessment of the likelihood that a patient could physically recover as a result of treatment, or the likelihood of such treatment to relieve a patient's suffering. Examples of futile care may be a surgeon operating on a terminal cancer patient even when the surgery will not alleviate suffering; or doctors keeping a brain-dead person on life-support machines for reasons other than to procure their organs for donation. It is a sensitive area that often causes conflicts among medical practitioners and patients or kin.\n\nMany controversies surrounding the concept of futile care center around how futility is assessed differently in specific situations rather than on arguments in favor of providing futile care \"per se\". It is difficult to determine when a particular course of action may fall under the definition of futile medical care, because of the difficulty in defining the point at which there is no further benefit to intervention in each case. For instance, a cancer patient may be willing to undergo yet more chemotherapy with a very expensive medication for the benefit of a few weeks of life, while medical staff, insurance company staff, and close relatives may believe this is a futile course of care.\n\nA 2010 survey of more than 10,000 physicians in the United States found respondents divided on the issue of recommending or giving \"life-sustaining therapy when [they] judged that it was futile\", with 23.6% saying they would do so, 37% saying they would not, and 39.4% selecting \"It depends\".\n\nArguments against providing futile care include potential harm to patients, family members, or caregivers with little or no likely benefits, and the diversion of resources to support the futile care of patients when resources could be used to provide care to patients that could respond to care.\n\nFutile care does not offer benefits to the patient as a whole, and at the same time the physical, emotional, spiritual, economic, or ethical hardship and harm caused by futile care to the patient or to family members may be significant.\n\nWhile futile care does not benefit patients, it may cost providers, the state, and patient families significant money and resources. In some cases, futile care involves the expenditure of resources that could be used by other patients with a good likelihood of achieving a positive outcome. For instance, in the case of Baby K, attempts to transfer the infant to other centers were unsuccessful because there were no unoccupied pediatric ICU beds in the region. Many critics of that case insist that the medical expenses used to keep the anencephalic child on life support for over two years could have been better spent on awareness and prevention efforts for her condition.\n\nThe issue of futile care in clinical medicine generally involves two questions. The first concerns the identification of those clinical scenarios where the care would be futile. The second concerns the range of ethical options when care is determined to be futile.\n\nClinical scenarios vary in degrees and manners of futility. While scenarios like providing ICU care to the brain-dead patient or the anencephalic patient when organ harvesting is not possible or practical are easily identifiable as futile, many other situations are less clear. \n\nOver the last four decades, the clinical community has improved the quality of prognostic efforts. As a result, simple but imprecise rules of thumb like \"percent mortality = age + percent burn\" to judge the futility of burn cases involving elderly patients, have now given way to sophisticated algorithms based on multiple linear regression and other advanced statistical techniques. These are complex clinical algorithms that have been scientifically validated and have considerable clinical predictive value, particularly in the case of patients suffering severe burns. Such algorithms may provide high-quality prognostic information to aid patients and families in making difficult decisions, and have the potential to be used to guide resource allocation. \n\nThese prognostic algorithms estimate the probability of the patient surviving. In a study of patients so severely burned that survival was clinically unprecedented, during the initial lucid period (before sepsis and other complications set in) patients were told that survival was extremely unlikely (i.e., that death was essentially inevitable) and were asked to choose between palliative care and aggressive clinical measures. Most chose aggressive clinical measures, which may suggest that the will to live in patients can be very strong even situations deemed hopeless by the clinician. \n\nAnother practical clinical example that often occurs in large hospitals is the decision about whether or not to continue resuscitation when the resuscitation efforts following an in-hospital cardiac arrest have been prolonged. A 1999 study in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" has validated an algorithm developed for these purposes.\n\nAs medical care improves and affects more and more chronic conditions, questions of futility have continued to arise. A relatively recent response to this difficulty in the United States is the introduction of the hospice concept, in which palliative care is initiated for someone thought to be within about six months of death. Numerous social and practical barriers exist that complicate the issue of initiating hospice status for someone unlikely to recover.\n\nAnother issue in futile care theory concerns the range of ethical options when care is determined to be futile. Some people argue that futile clinical care should be a market commodity that should be able to be purchased just like cruise vacations or luxury automobiles, as long as the purchaser of the clinical services has the necessary funds and as long as other patients are not being denied access to clinical resources as a result. In this model, Baby K would be able to get ICU care (primarily ventilatory care) until funding vanished. With rising medical care costs and an increase in extremely expensive new anti-cancer medications, the similar issues of equity often arise in treatment of end-stage cancer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53772256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53772256", "title": "Gerhard Jynge", "text": "Gerhard Jynge\n\nGerhard Vilhelm Jynge (1877 – February 21, 1945) was a Norwegian newspaper editor.\n\nHe became the editor of \"Oplandenes Avis\" in 1908 and the sub-editor of \"Verdens Gang\" in 1911, served as the first editor of \"Haugesunds Dagblad\" from June 8, 1912 to December 1913, became the editor of \"Dagsposten\" in Trondheim in 1914, and was the editor of \"Aalesunds Avis\" from 1917 to 1921. He became an appellate judge pro tem in Bergen in 1921, and a regular judge in 1928. He died on February 21, 1945, when the steamship \"Austri\" was sunk by British aircraft in Bømla Fjord.\n"}
{"id": "30985854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30985854", "title": "Gymnocodiaceae", "text": "Gymnocodiaceae\n\nThis family of alga is known from Permian to Cretaceous strata. It has been aligned with the chlorophytes and rhodophytes; whilst the latter is the most widely held opinion, some authors still consider a green algal affinity possible.\n"}
{"id": "432374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432374", "title": "HMAS AE1", "text": "HMAS AE1\n\nHMAS \"AE1 (originally known as just AE1\") was an E-class submarine of the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). She was the first submarine to serve in the RAN, and was lost at sea with all hands near what is now East New Britain, Papua New Guinea, on 14 September 1914, after less than seven months in service. Search missions attempting to locate the wreck began in 1976. The submarine was found during the 13th search mission near the Duke of York Islands in December 2017. \n\nThe E class was a version of the preceding D-class submarine enlarged to accommodate an additional pair of broadside torpedo tubes. \"AE1\" was long overall, with a beam of and a draught of . She displaced on the surface and submerged. The E-class boats had a designed diving depth of , but the addition of watertight bulkheads strengthened the hull and increased the actual diving depth to . The complement consisted of 34 men: officers and ratings.\n\nThe boat had two propellers, each of which was driven by an eight-cylinder, diesel engine as well as a electric motor. This arrangement gave the E-class submarines a maximum speed of while surfaced and when submerged. They carried approximately of fuel oil, which provided a range of at while on the surface and at while submerged. \"AE1\" had four 18-inch torpedo tubes, one each in the bow and stern, plus two on the broadside, one firing to port and the other to starboard. The boat carried one spare torpedo for each tube. No guns were fitted.\n\n\"AE1\" was built by Vickers Limited at Barrow-in-Furness, England, having been laid down on 14 November 1911 and launched on 22 May 1913 and commissioned into the RAN on 28 February 1914. After commissioning, \"AE1\", accompanied by , the other of the RAN's first two submarines, reached Sydney from England on 24 May 1914. Officers for the submarines were Royal Navy (RN) personnel, while the ratings were a mix of sailors drawn from the RN and RAN.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I, \"AE1\", commanded by Lieutenant Commander Thomas Besant, was part of the Australian Naval and Military Expeditionary Force sent to attack German New Guinea. Along with \"AE2\", she took part in the operations leading to the occupation of the German territory, including the surrender of Rabaul on 13 September 1914. The submarine's involvement was recognised in 2010, following an overhaul of the RAN battle honours system, with the retroactive award of the honour \"Rabaul 1914\".\n\nAt 07:00 on 14 September, \"AE1\" departed Blanche Bay, Rabaul, to patrol off Cape Gazelle with . When she had not returned by 20:00, several ships were dispatched to search for her. No trace of the submarine was found, and she was listed as lost with all hands. The disappearance was Australia's first major loss of World War I.\n\nAfter the discovery of the submarine in December 2017, Rear Admiral Peter Briggs, retired, said the likely cause of its loss was a diving accident. He added:\n\nOn 14 September 2018, a team of researchers headed by the National Maritime Museum director Kevin Sumption concluded their investigation into the sinking of \"AE1\". They concluded that a ventilation valve, which was likely open to make the tropical conditions a little more bearable while the submarine was cruising on the surface near the Duke of York Islands, was insecure when the submarine dived causing a flood of the submarine's engine room and total loss of control of the \"AE1\". The submarine subsequently sank below 100 metres and imploded, killing everyone on board instantly.\n\nBeyond the search immediately after the submarine's disappearance, there were no concentrated efforts to locate the wreck of \"AE1\" until the 1970s, when John Foster, a RAN officer working in Port Moresby, became interested in the story. After researching wartime records, Foster persuaded the RAN to deploy the survey ship HMAS \"Flinders\" in 1976. \"Flinders\" found one potential sonar contact, but did not have a sophisticated enough side-scan sonar to make a determination either way. During a deployment to Papua New Guinea in 1978, \"Flinders\" conducted several ad-hoc searches, again with no useful result. In 1990, while sailing between New Britain and New Ireland, Jacques Cousteau diverted his ship, \"Calypso\", to investigate the potential contact found in 1976. His original plan was to investigate up close with a submersible, but mechanical issues prevented it, and \"Calypso\" instead performed a magnetometer search of the area, finding no wrecks.\n\nFoster had continued archive research into \"AE1\"s disappearance, supplemented with visits to Rabaul and nearby islands to see if references to the submarine appeared in any community's oral histories. By 2002, he was focused on the waters off Mioko Island in the Duke of York Islands group: a priest from a Catholic mission had stated that members of the community had spotted a wrecked submarine on Wirian Reef while diving for shells. Attempts to dive the reported site of the wreck in 2002 and early 2003 were unsuccessful: the former was called off due to high shark presence, the latter expedition also was hampered by shark activity and found no wreck at the reported location. A third expedition in November 2003, supported by the Maritime Museum of Western Australia and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, conducted searches off Mioko and nearby islands, again with no success. Further oral evidence supporting the wreck of \"AE1\" being off Mioko was learned during one of the 2003 expeditions: Foster discovered that the Tolai people had a legend of a \"devil fish\" appearing offshore on the day that \"AE1\" disappeared.\n\nIn February 2007, a new effort to locate the submarine was mounted by the RAN, when the survey ships and attempted to locate the submarine off East New Britain. \"Benalla\" located an object on Wirian Reef of the appropriate dimensions using sonar on 1 March, but was unable to verify the nature of the object due to a damaged magnetometer. The minehunter was sent to investigate the object further in late 2007. Sonar and remotely-operated vehicle (ROV) imagery of the object revealed shape and dimensions similar to the submarine, but subsequent analysis by the Defence Science and Technology Organisation identified the object as a rock formation.\n\nFoster organised another search in May 2009, partially funded by Channel Seven's \"Sunday Night\", based on claims by a Rabaul-based salvage diver that he had seen the wreck in Simpson Harbour back in 1971, in proximity to the wreck of the Japanese merchant ship \"Keifuku Maru\". Diver searches of the site specified by the salvager failed to find either wreck. A follow-up search later that year by the Western Australian Maritime Museum found that \"Keifuku Maru\" had been buried under of rock during the 1994 Rabaul caldera eruption, but found no evidence of \"AE1\", buried or otherwise. John Foster died in 2010 with the search for \"AE1\" continued by others. During early 2012, the minehunter and the survey ship detected a potential wrecked submarine in Simpson Harbour. Although initially suspected to be \"AE1\", the wreck was determined to be a World War II-era Japanese midget submarine. \"Resolution\" later conducted sonar surveys of areas in which \"AE1\" may have been lost, with no wrecks found.\n\nBetween 6 and 9 September 2014, \"Yarra\" conducted searches around the Duke of York Islands, prior to a memorial service for the centenary of the submarine's disappearance. Although numerous sonar \"contacts of interest\" were made during the search, including one which was singled out for further investigation, all were found to be natural terrain.\n\nIn September 2015, plans for a new search were announced by Find AE1 Limited. The search off Mioko Island was carried out in November, and was conducted by a mining survey ship towing a multibeam echosounder array. At the time of the search, Find AE1 stated that if the attempt was unsuccessful, they planned to petition the Australian government to bring in the search equipment used during the search for Malaysia Airlines Flight 370. The 2015 search was ultimately unsuccessful.\n\nSeveral factors have been identified as having hampered the efforts to find \"AE1\". The volcanic nature of the region resulted in a rugged and highly variable underwater topography, with a high frequency of wreck-like acoustic anomalies. Much of the region is deep water, which limited the techniques and tools that could be used to locate and verify the wreck. Volcanic activity was also identified as a factor, due to the disruption it causes to local magnetic fields, affecting the operations of magnetometers. There were concerns that eruptions and underwater earthquakes may have caused the underwater landscape to change, or break up or bury the wreck. Additionally, the search areas contained large numbers of shipwrecks due to heavy military activity around New Guinea during World War II, along with the disposal of ships in later years.\n\nIn December 2017, another search – the 13th – was conducted using the survey ship \"Fugro Equator\", off the Duke of York Islands. This expedition was funded by the Commonwealth Government and the Silentworld Foundation with additional assistance from the Submarine Institute of Australia and the Australian National Maritime Museum. As a result of this effort, the submarine was found at a depth of and was seen to be well preserved and in one piece. The \"RV Petrel\" was enlisted to survey the wreckage. During the survey, it was discovered that the submarine’s rear torpedo tube was fully opened. The exact location of the wreck was not announced by the Australian government at the time of discovery, in order to protect it from \"unauthorised salvage attempts\". The government's stated position is that the wreck will be treated as a war grave.\n\nIn 1933, a stained-glass window commemorating the losses of \"AE1\" and \"AE2\" was added to the naval chapel at Garden Island in Sydney. In September 2015, a floating sculpture to commemorate \"AE1\" was unveiled outside the Australian National Maritime Museum. The sculpture takes the form of a stainless steel wreath, in diameter, which projects patterns of light onto the water at night. In 2008 a memorial plaque was dedicated to HMAS \"AE1\" at the Tasmanian Seafarers' Memorial at Triabunna on the east coast of Tasmania, commemorating the loss of L.S. Cyril Lefroy Baker RAN, Telegraphist, the first Tasmanian killed in his country's service in World War I.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "430221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=430221", "title": "Hasan al-Askari", "text": "Hasan al-Askari\n\nHasan ibn Ali ibn Muhammad ( 846 – 874) was the 11th Imam of Twelver Shia Islam, after his father Ali al-Hadi. He was also called Abu Muhammad and Ibn al-Ridha. Because Samarra, the city where he lived, was a garrison town, he is generally known as al-Askari (\"Askar\" is the word for \"military\" in Arabic). Al-Askari married Narjis Khatun and was kept under house arrest or in prison for most of his life. According to some Shia sources, he was poisoned at the age of 28 on the orders of the Abbasid caliph Al-Mu'tamid and was buried in Samarra. It was known that many Shia were looking forward to the succession of his son, Muhammad al-Mahdi, as they believed him to be the twelfth Imam, who was destined to remove injustice from the world.\n\nIn 231 or 232 A.H., Hasan al-Askari was born in Medina. Dwight Donaldson has put al-Askari's birth near the time Al-Mutawakkil transferred his father, Ali al-Hadi, from Medina to Samarra. It is unclear whether he was born in Samarra or Medina. Hans Halm has set 233 or 234 A.H.(849 A.D.) as the date of the departure of Hasan al-Askari with his father. Wilferd Madelung considers 23 Ramadan 233 AH (5 May, 848 A.D.) the date of their entry into Samarra, so he spent most of his life there. According to authentic Shia Hadith he was born in Medina on the 8th of Rabiul Akhar 232 Hijri (4 December 846 AD) and died in Samarra Iraq on the 8th of Rabiul Awwal 260 Hijri (4 January 874) aged 28. The period of his imamate was six years. He was taken along with his family to Samarra in the year 230, 231 or 232 A.H., and was kept there under house arrest. In Samarra, al-Askari spent most of his time reading the Quran and the Sharia. According to Donaldson, al-Askari must also have studied languages. In later years it was known that he could speak Hindi with the pilgrims from India, Turkish with the Turks, and Persian with the Persians. According to Shia accounts, however, it is part of the divine knowledge given to all Imams to be able to speak all human languages.\n\nIt is said that even as a child, al-Askari was endowed with divine knowledge. One day a man passed by him and saw that he was crying. The man told him he would buy a toy that he might play with. \"No!\" said al-Askari, \"We have not been created for play.\" The man was amazed at this answer and said, \"Then, what for have we been created?\" \"For knowledge and worship\", answered the child. The man said, \"Where have you got this from?\" Al-Askari said, \"From the saying of God, \"Did you then think that We had created you in vain\".\" The man was confused, so he asked, \"What has happened to you while you are guiltless, little child?\" Al-Askari replied, \"Be away from me! I have seen my mother set fire to big pieces of firewood, but fire is not lit except with small pieces, and I fear that I shall be from the small pieces of the firewood of the Hell.\"\n\nAl-Askari's mother, as in the case of most of The Twelve Imams, was a slave girl who was honoured after bearing children with the title \"Umm walad\" (mother of offspring). Her given name was Hadith, though some say she was called \"Susan\", \"Ghazala\", \"Salil\", or \"Haribta\". Al-Askari had other brothers. Among them was Ja’far who was also known as \"Ja'far al-Zaki\" or \"Jaffar-us-Sani\". His other brother was Husayn, and together he and al-Askari were known as \"as-Sibtayn\", after their two grandfathers Hasan and Husayn, who were also called \"as-Sibtayn\".\n\nVarious legends relate to al-Askari's wife, Narjis Khatun (the mother of the twelfth Imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi). It is said that al-Askari's father, Ali al-Hadi, wrote a letter in the script of Rûm, put it in a red purse with 220 dinars, and gave it to his friend Bashar ibn Sulaiman. The letter instructed him to go to Baghdad, to a ferry dock on the river where the boats from Syria were unloaded, and female slaves were sold. Bashar was told to look out for a shipowner named Amr ibn Yazid, who had a slave girl who would call out in the language of Rûm: \"Even if you have wealth and the glory of Solomon the son of David, I can never have affection for you, so take care lest you waste your money.\" And that if a buyer approached her, she would say, \"Cursed be the man who unveils my eyebrow!\" Her owner would then protest, \"But what recourse do I have I; I am compelled to sell you?\" The Imam said, \"You will then hear the slave answer, 'Why this hast, let me choose my purchaser, that my heart may accept him in confidence and gratitude'.\"\n\nBashar gave the letter to the slave girl as he was instructed. She read it and was unable to keep from crying afterward. Then she said to Amr ibn Yezid, \"Sell me to the writer of this letter, for if you refuse I will surely kill myself.\" \"I therefore talked over the price with Amr until we agreed on the 220 dinars my master had given me,\" said Bashar. On her way to Samarra, the slave girl would kiss the letter and rub it to her face and body; and when asked by Bashar why she did so despite not knowing the writer of the letter, she said, \"May the offspring of the Prophet dispel your doubts!\" Later, however, she gave a full description of the dream she had, and how she had escaped from her father's palace. A lengthier version of this story is recorded in Donaldson's book, along with further discussion on its authenticity.\n\nSome Shia sources have recorded her as being a \"Roman (i.e. Byzantine) princess\" who pretended to be a slave so that she might travel from her kingdom to Arabia. Mohammad Ali Amir-Moezzi, in the \"Encyclopedia of Iranica\", suggests that the last version is \"undoubtedly legendary and hagiographic\".\n\nAbout his descendants, there are different views. According to many collections of Sunni and Shi'a hadith, his only son was Mohammed, who was born in 255 A.H.(869 A.D.). Some sources enumerate up to three girls and three boys as his offspring. Some others say he did not have any offspring.\n\nShia believe that Hasan al-Askari gained the Imamate after the death of his father—by divine command, as well as by the decrees of the previous Imams—at the age of 22. During the seven years of his Imamate, Hasan al-Askari lived in dissimulation (\"taqiyah\"), without any social contact, as the Abbasid Caliphs were afraid of the increasing popularity of Shia Islam at the time. The Caliphs also came to know that the leaders among the Shia believed that the eleventh Imam would have a son who was the promised Mahdi. \nDue to these fears, the Caliphs of the time had decided to put an end to the Imamate of Shi'ism once and for all.\n\nHasan al-Askari lived almost his entire life under house arrest in Samarra and under the supervision of the Abbasid caliphs. He was not allowed to communicate with others and wore the \"Taqiyah\" (cap). Some say, however, that due to visits made on his traffic route, at the beginning of his imamate, he had a little freedom. According to Sachedina and Jassim M. Hussain, during his house arrest, al-Askari named a personal deputy to guide the Shia in religious thought and collect religious taxes (\"Khums\", \"Zakat\", etc.). He organized The institution of the deputyship (\"wikala\"). He criticized the rulers for appropriating the wealth of the nation and extorting the people under their rule by not communicating with or cooperating with the kings of his time. The state remained in a political crisis, as the Abbasid Caliphs were considered puppets of the Turks, who were seen as ruling through terrorism. After the death of al-Askari's father, Ali al-Hadi, the Caliph Al-Mu'tazz summoned him to Baghdad, where he was kept in prison during the short rule of the next Caliph, Al-Muhtadi. Most of his prison time, however, was during the reign of the succeeding Caliph, Al-Mu'tamid, who is known in Shia sources as the main oppressor of the Imam. The Imam's death has largely been attributed to poison administered by al-Mu'tamid. The al-Mu'tamid era coincided with the rebellion of the Alawites, and people allied to them, so al-Askari was released from prison, from 256 to 260 A.H. The news of his death was published in his home.\n\nThere was a large sect of Shia, the Waqifiyya, who believed that the Imamate stopped with the seventh Imam, Musa al-Kadhim. They were unwilling to approve the succession of the remaining five Imams. Also, Ja’far, the son of the tenth Imam, claimed to be Imam after the death of his brother, al-Askari, and was followed by a group of Shia. However, this group disbanded soon afterwards, as Ja’far himself gave up his claim. Except for Zaidiyyah and Isma'ilism, which continue to the present day, all other minority sects of Twelver Shia were dissolved in a short period, except for the division made by Ibn Nusayr after the death of Al-Askari, which later became the Alawites.\n\nDuring their lifetimes, the Shia Imams trained hundreds of scholars whose names and works can be found in biographical books. During the time of the Eleventh Imam, however, some Shia saw Islamic religious life as being in shambles. The Imam was under house arrest and many non-believers took advantage of this to question religion, in spite of the Imam's continuing to speak out against those who questioned the Qur'an. An account of this can be found in a \"tafsir\" ascribed to him. The religious skepticism was manifested in a book entitled \"The Contradiction of the Quran\", by Abd al-Masih ibn Ishaq al-Kindi. News of the book came to al-Askari, who met one of al-Kindi's disciples and said to him, \"Is there no wise man among you to prevent your teacher, al-Kindi, from that which he has busied himself with?\" The disciple answered that they were al-Kindi's disciples and were unable to object. Later on, Hasan al-Askari instructed the disciple how to question al-Kindi.\n\nGo to him, be courteous with him, and show him that you will help him in what he is in. When he feels comfortable with you, you say to him, \"If someone recites the Quran, is it possible that he means other meanings than what you think you understand?\" He shall say that \"it is possible because he is a man who understands when he listens.\" If he says that, you say to him, \"How do you know? He might mean other than the meanings that you think, and so he fabricates other than its (the Qur'an) meanings...\"\nThe disciple did as al-Askari advised him; and Al-Kindi was shrewd enough to say, \"...no one like you can get to this. Would you tell me where you have got this from?\" And when he heard the true story said, \"Now you say the truth. Like this would not come out except that house (the Ahlul Bayt)…\". It is said that al-Kindi burnt his book afterwards.\n\nDespite being confined to house arrest for almost his entire life, Hasan al-Askari was able to teach others about Islam, and even compiled a commentary on the Quran that became known as \"Tafsir al-Askari\". However, there was much suspicion about whether it truly was his work. The \"tafsir\" was thought by some to have a weak chain of authorities \"(Sanad)\", which is an essential part of the transmission of a tradition. The \"tafsir\" was also questioned because it contained a few inconsistencies and lacks eloquence, which some claim ruin its validity by default. The main reason people questioned its validity was the fact the Imam was under constant watch by the Abbasid government, which prevented any contact between him and other Shia, making it impossible for such knowledge to be transmitted.\n\nOpinions differ on the cause of Hasan al-Askari’s death. Some believe he died from illness. But, according to some Shia sources, others think he was poisoned at the age of 28 at the instigation of the Abbasid Caliph Al-Mu'tamid and died on the 8th Rabi' al-Awwal 260 AH (approximately: 4 January 874 and 16 November 2018 ) in his house in Samarra and was buried with his father. Shaykh Tabarsi thought, based on hadith of the Imamieh, that all Shia imams will be killed by someone else, so that he believed al-Askari was poisoned. Ibn Shahrashub, referring to documents such as \"Dala'il al-imama\", stated that al-Askari was killed by someone else. Rasul Jafarian, referring to historical documents and detention records of the sixth century A.H., stated that al-Askari opposed the Abbasid Caliph politically and that his death happened early in life. According to the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\", in all of the sources there is one common thread: that al-Mu'tamid wanted a declaration by medical practitioners that showed the people that al-Askari died a natural death.\n\nWhen news of al-Askari's illness reached Caliph Al-Mu'tamid, he sent a physician and a group of his trusted men to observe the Imam's condition. After the death of the Imam, they had all his female slaves examined by the midwives. For two years, they searched for the successor of the Imam until they eventually lost hope. Al-Askari died on the very same day that his young son, Muhammad al-Mahdi, who then was five or a little over, disappeared and started what was henceforth known as the Minor Occultation.\nGenealogy trees of Middle Eastern families, mostly from Persia and Khorasan, show that Imam Hasan al-Askari also had a second son called Sayyid Ali Akbar. These indicate that Imam al-Askari had children and tend to substantiate the existence of Imam Muhammad al Mahdi. The reason for dispute over whether Imam Al Askari had children or not is perhaps because of the political conflicts between the followers of the Imamah and the leadership of the Abbasids and Ghulat Shiites who had not believed in Imam Hasan al-Askaris Imamah. In fact, the eleventh Imam had two sons, Sayyid Muhammad (i.e. Imam Mahdi) and Sayyid Ali Akbar. Notable descendants of Sayyid Ali Akbar are Sufi saints such as Maudood Chishti and Bahauddin Naqshband, descendant after 11 generations. Khwaja Khawand Mahmud known as Hazrat Ishaan, descendant after 18 generations and the three saintly brothers Sayyid ul Sadaat Sayyid Mir Jan Sayyid ul Sadaat Sayyid Mahmud Agha and Sayyid ul Sadaat Sayyid Mir Fazlullah, Qadhi ul Qudhad i.e. chief of justice of the Emirate of Afghanistan, maternal descendants of Imam Hasan al Askari and Hazrat Ishaan. The German entrepreneur and member of the royal family of Afghanistan is a contemporary descendant of Sayyid Ali-Akbar, through his great grandfather Sayyid ul Sadaat Sayyid Mir Fazlullah, Qadhi ul Qudhad i.e. chief of justice of the Emirate of Afghanistan. Also Gadi Qozi Sayyid Bahodirxon, and the Sufi saints Tajuddin Muhammad Badruddin and Pir Baba and Sayyid Ahmed Amiruddin. Another descendant of Sayyid Ali Akbar was Saint Ishan (Eshon) Imlo of Bukhara. Ishan Imlo\nBukhara or \"saint of the last time\", as he is called in Bukhara, is believed to be the last offspring of the Saints. The average Asian Muslim revere him as the last of the Saints. Ishan Imlo according to the source, died in 1162 AH (1748–1749), the mausoleum (\"Mazar\") is in a cemetery in Bukhara.\n\nShias believe the birth of al-Askari's son, like that of the prophet Moses, was concealed due to the difficulties of the time and because of the belief that the son was the promised Muhammad al-Mahdi, an important figure in Shia teachings. The Mahdi was believed to be destined to reappear before the end of time to fill the world with justice, peace, and to establish Islam as the global religion. Al-Askari's death coincided with the beginning of the imamate of the Mahdi.\n\nJa'far al Zaki, al-Askari's uncle, claimed that his brother never had a son. It is said that when Ja'far al Zaki was about to say the prayer at his nephew's funeral, there appeared \"a fair child, with curly hair, and shining teeth\", who seized Ja'far's cloak and insisted on saying the prayer. A few days later, a group of Shia pilgrims from Qum, ignorant of his death, came to visit al-Askari. The same Ja'far claimed to be the next Imam. The pilgrims said they would accept him if he would prove himself by telling them their names and indicating how much money they had. While Ja'far was protesting this examination, a servant of al-Mahdi appeared, saying that his master had sent him to inform them of their particular names and their specific amounts of money. Ja'far searched everywhere but could not find the boy, al-Mahdi. The doctrine of his \"ghaiba\" declares simply that the Mahdi has been \"withdrawn by God from the eyes of men, that his life has been miraculously prolonged, that he has been seen from time to time and has been in correspondence with others, and maintains a control over the fortunes of his people\".\n\nMany Sunni do not believe the Mahdi has already been born, but there is a group of as many as 40 famous Sunni scholars including Al-Dhahabi, Ibn-Hajar, Abu al-Falah Hanbali and al-Qunduzi who believe that he has.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "957839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=957839", "title": "Holarchy", "text": "Holarchy\n\nA holarchy is a connection between holons, where a \"holon\" is both a part and a whole. The term was coined in Arthur Koestler's 1967 book \"The Ghost in the Machine\".\n\nHolarchy is commonly referred to as a form of hierarchy; however, hierarchy, by its definition, has both an absolute top and bottom. But this is not logically possible in a holon, as it is both a whole and a part. The \"hierarchical relationship\" between holons at different levels can just as meaningfully be described with terms like \"in and out\", as they can with \"up and down\" or \"left and right\"; perhaps more generally, one can say that holons at one level are \"made up of, or make up\" the holons or parts of another level. This can be demonstrated in the holarchic relationship (subatomic particles ↔ atoms ↔ molecules ↔ macromolecules ↔ organelles ↔ cells ↔ tissues ↔ organs ↔ organisms ↔ communities ↔ societies) where each holon is a \"level\" of organization, and all are ultimately descriptive of the same set (e.g., a particular collection of matter). The top can be a bottom, a bottom can be a top, and, like a fractal, the patterns evident at one level can be similar to those at another.\n\nDavid Spangler uses the term in a different meaning: \"In a hierarchy, participants can be compared and evaluated on the basis of position, rank, relative power, seniority, and the like. But in a holarchy each person’s value comes from his or her individuality and uniqueness and the capacity to engage and interact with others to make the fruits of that uniqueness available.\"\n\nMultiagent systems are systems composed of autonomous software entities. They are able to simulate a system or to solve problems. A holarchy may be easily mapped to a hierarchy of agents in which an agent is composed of agents, and may have its own behavior defined as a partial consequence of these parts' behaviors.\n\nJanus Multiagent Platform is a software platform able to execute holarchies of agents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17583637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17583637", "title": "John Bottarini", "text": "John Bottarini\n\nJohn Charles Bottarini (September 14, 1908 – October 8, 1976) was a right-handed catcher for the Chicago Cubs during the 1937 season. He did not see much playing time as the Cubs were anchored behind the plate by future Hall of Famer Gabby Hartnett. Bottarini appeared in 26 games for the Cubs that season and put up decent offensive numbers, hitting .275 in 40 at-bats with three doubles, a home run and 7 RBI. He made 19 appearances in the field—18 at catcher and one in the outfield.\n\nAfter the 1937 season, Bottarini was sold to Memphis of the minor league Southern Association. He would never play in the major leagues again.\n\nBottarini died by drowning after a boating accident on October 8, 1976 in Jemez Springs, New Mexico.\n"}
{"id": "29466318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29466318", "title": "Judgement (afterlife)", "text": "Judgement (afterlife)\n\nA central theme of many religions is what happens to people upon death. Almost all religions are greatly devoted to the afterlife, emphasizing that what you do in your current life affects what happens to you in the afterlife. This usually takes the form of judgement by a deity, in which ones deeds and characteristics in life determine either punishment or reward (when one has been mostly good).\n\nIn Ancient Egypt, it was believed that upon death, one's fate in the afterlife was determined by the weighing of one’s heart. One's heart was kept within the body during mummification so that it can travel with the deceased into the afterlife. Upon death, one entered the underworld (Duat), where Anubis, the God of the dead, weighed the persons heart on a scale against the feather of Ma’at, the goddess of order, truth, and righteousness. If the heart weighed more than the feather, meaning that the person was more wicked than good, then the heart would be devoured by Ammit, a demon with the head of a crocodile, the front half of the body of a leopards, and the back half of a hippopotamus, but with goat arms. If a person's heart was devoured by Ammit, then he would die a second death and be completely annihilated from existence.\n\nAncient Greeks believed that upon death, an individual would enter the realm of Hades, the Greek underworld, and be judged by King Minos, Aeacus, and Radamanthus. Depending on one's actions in life, an individual would be sent to one of three different planes: Elysium, the Asphodel Fields, or Tartarus. Elysium is for those who were righteous in life and is reserved for good people and legendary heroes. In Elysium people relax and enjoy a life of everlasting joy in a beautiful and comfortable field with trees and sun. The Asphodel Fields is the land of neutrality, where those who were either neutral, or whose good and bad deeds are about equal reside. It is a bland place symbolizing their lack of notability in life. The final realm, Tartarus, is the realm of the wicked. It is the deepest realm of Hades, and those who have performed wicked deeds are punished here for eternity. Punishment here reflects the wicked deeds committed in one's life (e.g., Tantalus killed and fed his son to the Gods, so he was punished by being made to stand in a pool surrounded by trees with fruit, but can partake of neither water nor fruit.). Mortals shared this realm with non-mortals.\n\nHinduism was extremely influential, with aspects and gods from Hinduism being borrowed into other religions not only in India, but also in China, Korea, and Japan. As such, many of the Asian religions have similarities in myths, deities, and concepts.\n\nIn Hinduism, people are judged by Yama, the God of Death, in accordance with Karma. Depending on whether or not and how closely one adhered to one's duties in life, as well as one's deeds, they would be either punished or rewarded in their next life after reincarnation. Those who performed their duties and performed good deeds would reincarnate into a higher class, spending some time between lives in bliss in heaven, whereas those who did not follow the rules of their caste and performed bad deeds in life were either reincarnated into lower classes or lower lifeforms, such as animals, as well as sent to Naraka (the equivalent of Hell) and tortured by various means between lives. There are several layers to Naraka, and people are sent to different ones for different punishments based on the severity and nature of their misdeeds in life.\n\nBuddhism applies the principles of Karma and reincarnation much the same way that Hinduism does. There are several differing versions. In some there is no God that passes down judgement on individuals to either determine their future life or to reward or punish them for their current one. In such cases, humans, as well as all other beings except for the Buddhas who have reached Nirvana, simply follow the cycle of reincarnation based on Karma until they can reach Nirvana. In some other versions of Buddhism, Yama, as well as conceptions of Naraka and punishment, are adopted from Hinduism.\n\nChinese religion borrows heavily form Hinduism and Buddhism, including Yama and Naraka (Diyu). However, Karma and the Caste system is not employed; thus reincarnation, as well as rewards and punishment between lives and in Diyu, are based solely on good or bad deeds in life. The wicked are tortured in Diyu, which contains different levels with different punishments, just like in Hinduism, and are reincarnated either into humans with bad luck and conditions or into animals. Those who are righteous and good are either reincarnated into humans with good fortune and status or are accepted into heaven\n\nIn Judaism, judgement occurs by God during the transition from the current earthly world \"Olam Ha-Zeh\" to the world to come \"Olam Ha-Ba\", which is roughly the equivalent of paradise or Eden. Those who followed all of the seven laws given to Moses, including non-Jews, would be considered righteous gentiles and allowed to enter Olam Ha-Ba. In contrast, those who did not obey the rules and were wicked would spend time in Gehenna for spiritual purification. Gehenna was a fiery place similar to common conceptions of Hell, where the wicked would be tortured for a maximum of one year's time in order to purify them for Olam Ha-Ba. Those who were too wicked would instead be completely destroyed after being tortured in Gehenna.\n\nCatholics believe that all men, women, and children whether just or unjust will be resurrected, and shall come to The Day of Judgment both in body and soul. Humans are judged according to their deeds. Those found pure are saved and welcomed into the kingdom, for nothing impure shall pass through the gates of God's Kingdom, but those found wanting enter everlasting damnation. Catholics believe that while salvation is by and through the grace of God, that human cooperation with grace is necessary as evidenced by the Parable of The Talents. They believe that the works done to merit salvation are not merited in virtue of the human's own being, who is a sinner, but as a servant and friend who acts well with the graces given them freely; thus faith without works is deemed Solo Fides and is rejected by Catholics, but so too works without Faith is rejected as Pelagianism by Catholics. Judgment Day is thus considered to require both Faith as a gift from above, but also the works of the human are judged, just as a branch of a vine is judged by its fruits. Catholics also believe in Purgatory, but as a place that is pre-Judgment Day, a purifying locale for those preparing for The Day of Judgment. If souls are purifed before Judgment Day they are released where they join the Saints who are spirits without bodies, enjoying an intellectual vision of The Father who is without body, known as The Beautific Vision. There the Saints await The Day of Judgment knowing they will be resurrected to receive their bodies and will be judged pure by The Trinity, confirmed by the Apostles and Patriarchs. Not only are humans judged on That Day, but so too are other creatures like angels.\n\nThe Catholic Church differs from other World beliefs in that it maintains God cannot be a Higher Power, for this claims God is in time and space as one of many powers, but is necessarily outside all Creation. The Catholic God is thus transcendent in The Godhead, yet immanent in The Incarnation and present in Baptism. Most importantly, this God is said to be Three Persons in One Essence. Salvation is by good deeds worked through, by, and in the grace of God. The Ordo Salutis is thus: The Father calls one to Baptism in Christ, through The Holy Spirit, and then the believer cultivates the virtues of Fatih, Hope, and Love through work to merit salvation through the grace given them in the sacraments, and continuously fed by the sacraments. Christ's place in The Godhead is as Logos incarnate, as both the lamb of God given for the sins of the world and the High Priest, making him both the one sacrificing and the sacrifice, which still require human response and agency to God's first act of call and action.\n\nProtestants believe that the deceased leave their bodies and their spirit faces judgement for sin by God. Since all humans sin, the only way into Heaven is faith in Jesus Christ, who is both God's Son and God in human form. Good deeds in this life store up treasures in heaven – entering into Heaven (the true life) is worth far more than earthly riches and honor. All others go to Hell. Once in Hell, people will suffer to varying degrees depending on their deeds in life. This punishment is eternal. When the world ends all of the dead will come back to life for their permanent judgement and placed in a new Heaven, Earth and Hell. Protestantism differs from other World beliefs in that while it allows a distinct avenue for judgement by a Higher Power, passage into a comfortable eternal life cannot be earned, but happens due to the self-sacrifice of that Higher Power by Solo Fides.\n\nIn Islam, there are two general paths after death: the first is Jannah, roughly the equivalent of paradise, and the second is Jahannam, the equivalent to Hell. One's assignment to Jannah or Jahannam are determined by one's deeds in life. Those who believe in and follow the rules laid out, as well as who perform good deeds, are allowed to enter Jannah, whereas those who do not believe in Islam or are unfaithful to it are punished in Jahannam. Jannah is a garden of perpetual bliss; its inhabitants live in a state of happiness and satisfaction with no worries or problems. They live in beautiful conditions in which they get everything they desire: beautiful clothes, servants, surroundings, food, etc.; all of the things indicative of a perfect life in the current world. In addition, they are brought close to God. Those in Jahannam are tortured, primarily by methods relating to fire, for eternity, or until Allah wills for it to stop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4328122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4328122", "title": "Kleggs", "text": "Kleggs\n\nKleggs are alien mercenaries in the Judge Dredd comic books. \n\nA Klegg looks rather like a large man with green, scaly skin and the head and tail of an alligator or crocodile. They only take payment in meat, since they are pure carnivores. They are reasonably intelligent, but their ferocity and propensity for eating their foes dominate others' perception of them. Their society - the Klegg Empire - is essentially feudal.\n\nIn the story \"The Day The Law Died\", the insane Chief Judge Cal hired in the Kleggs to put down a rebellion inspired and led by the outlawed Judge Dredd. With their \"Klegg-Hounds\" (alien beasts rather like large dogs with crocodilian heads, which track enemies by tasting the ground where they have passed) the Kleggs kept the citizens of Mega-City One cowed and terrorized. Their battle-cry was \"Klegg-Hai! Klegg-Hai!\" and, in \"The Day The Law Died\", they also preceded this with a war-song: \"slicey slicey, oncey twicey, claw and fang'll kill Dredd nicely! Meaty beaty, chop 'em neatly, death or glory no retreatee!\". Cal appointed their leader, Grampus, deputy chief judge.\n\nAfter Judge Cal's death, the Kleggs were outlawed from Mega-City One; any citizen who sees a Klegg is required to either kill it or report it immediately to the Judges so that they may do so. Although most of them left, some remain, hidden here and there in the ruined parts of the city. Due to bitter memories of the Kleggs, other, more peaceful aliens have found Mega-City One less than welcoming on occasion. A few rare Kleggs have since been allowed back into the city. \n\nThe space-set spinoff \"The Corps\" presented a brutal war of attrition between Mega-City One's Space Corps and the Klegg Empire in the Spiral Arm, and that the Empire had a peace treaty with Sino-Cit, with \"peace fort\" bases at the Kaeli moons that divided Klegg and Sinese space. In a soft retcon, Corps commander Keitel said that the original Kleggs were \"lard-butt mercs\" who'd been banished from the Empire and that the imperial army were a more dangerous threat. The Kleggs themselves were even drawn differently, more muscular and menacing, and spoke in normal English to the Sinese. Later strips have ignored this look and gone back to the original Bolland design for all Kleggs.\n\nLater strips and spin-off books have used the Kleggs as recurring mercenary characters. Other looks at the Klegg Empire itself included a one-off spinoff, \"The Kleggs!\", where an education was rare and only for those born into the ruling high caste; rule of the Empire was gained through \"time honoured traditions of backstabbing and treachery\", and in 2124 Chorr took command from his uncle Grand Warmaster Grusk after an accident with an alien superweapon. In 2132, warlord Skull Khan Kirrz was on a war crime trial for committing the Edgeworld Marches atrocities. \n\nOne mercenary, a reconstructed Klegg who didn't eat people and got quite upset that people assumed he did, was named Sensitive Klegg, given the rank of \"Rear Admiral\", and drafted by Dirty Frank during the \"Trifecta\" storyline. \n\nThe Kleggs make an appearance in the Ace Trucking Co. strip, in the similarly titled adventure.\n\nThe Kleggs were the focus of a light-hearted piece in \"The Guardian\" during the British 2010 general election campaign, comparing them to Nick Clegg.\n\n"}
{"id": "32945910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32945910", "title": "Louisa Wilkinson", "text": "Louisa Wilkinson\n\nDame Louisa Jane Wilkinson (\"née\" Lumsden; 11 December 1889 – 4 December 1968) was an English nurse who was Matron-in-Chief of the Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing Service (QAIMNS) (1944–48) and founded Queen Alexandra's Royal Army Nursing Corps (QARANC). She was also president of the Royal College of Nursing.\n\nWilkinson was born Louisa Lumsden in Sunderland, the daughter of merchant seaman James Lumsden and Louisa Lumsden (\"née\" Benskin). She was educated at Bede Collegiate School in Sunderland and Thornbeck Collegiate School in Darlington.\n\nThe 22-year-old Lumsden began her training in 1911 at the Royal Infirmary in Sunderland. She had just finished her training when the First World War began in August 1914, and she promptly enlisted as a reserve in Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing Service (QAIMNS). In December 1917, but her husband was killed on active duty during World War I.\n\nOn 20 December 1917 she married Capt. Robert John Wilkinson of the Royal Irish Fusiliers at the Fulham register office, but killed in action barely six months later in France on 2 July 1918.\n\nWilkinson became a regular member of the QAIMNS, and saw service during both World Wars. She was appointed Matron in Chief from 1944–48, and after retirement was named Colonel Commandant.\nDame Louisa Wilkinson founded the QARANC Association in 1947.\n\nShe died in 1968 in Crowborough of a coronary thrombosis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "230330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230330", "title": "Lungfish", "text": "Lungfish\n\nLungfish are freshwater rhipidistian fish belonging to the subclass Dipnoi. Lungfish are best known for retaining characteristics primitive within the Osteichthyes, including the ability to breathe air, and structures primitive within Sarcopterygii, including the presence of lobed fins with a well-developed internal skeleton.\n\nToday there are only six known species of lungfish, living only in Africa, South America and Australia. The fossil record show that lungfish were abundant since the Triassic. While vicariance would suggest this represents an ancient distribution limited to the Mesozoic supercontinent Gondwana, the fossil record suggests advanced lungfish had a widespread freshwater distribution and the current distribution of modern lungfish species reflects extinction of many lineages subsequent to the breakup of Pangaea, Gondwana and Laurasia. Lungfish have historically been referred to as salamanderfish, but this term more often refers to \"Lepidogalaxias salamandroides\".\n\nAll lungfish demonstrate an uninterrupted cartilaginous notochord and an extensively developed palatal dentition. Basal (\"primitive\") lungfish groups may retain marginal teeth and an ossified braincase, but derived lungfish groups, including all modern species, show a significant reduction in the marginal bones and a cartilaginous braincase. The bones of the skull roof in primitive lungfish are covered in a mineralized tissue called cosmine, but in post-Devonian lungfishes, the skull roof lies beneath the skin and the cosmine covering is lost. All modern lungfish show significant reductions and fusions of the bones of the skull roof, and the specific bones of the skull roof show no homology to the skull roof bones of ray-finned fishes or tetrapods. During the breeding season, the South American lungfish develops a pair of feathery appendages that are actually highly modified pelvic fins. These fins are thought to improve gas exchange around the fish's eggs in its nest.\n\nThrough convergent evolution, lungfishes have evolved internal nostrils similar to the tetrapods' choana, and a brain with certain similarities to the lissamphibian brain (except for the Queensland lungfish, which branched off in its own direction about 277 million years ago and has a brain resembling that of the \"Latimeria\").\n\nThe dentition of lungfish is different from that of any other vertebrate group. \"Odontodes\" on the palate and lower jaws develop in a series of rows to form a fan-shaped occlusion surface. These odontodes then wear to form a uniform crushing surface. In several groups, including the modern lepidosireniformes, these ridges have been modified to form occluding blades.\n\nThe modern lungfishes have a number of larval features, which suggest paedomorphosis. They also demonstrate the largest genome among the vertebrates.\n\nModern lungfish all have an elongate body with fleshy, paired pectoral and pelvic fins and a single unpaired caudal fin replacing the dorsal, caudal and anal fins of most fishes.\n\nLungfish have a highly specialized respiratory system. They have a distinct feature that their lungs are connected to the larynx and pharynx without a trachea. While other species of fish can breathe air using modified, vascularized gas bladders, these bladders are usually simple sacs, devoid of complex internal structure. In contrast, the lungs of lungfish are subdivided into numerous smaller air sacs, maximizing the surface area available for gas exchange.\n\nMost extant lungfish species have two lungs, with the exception of the Australian lungfish, which only has one. The lungs of lungfish are homologous to the lungs of tetrapods. As in tetrapods and bichirs, the lungs extend from the ventral surface of the esophagus and gut.\n\nOf extant lungfish, only the Australian lungfish can respire through its gills. In other species, the gills are too atrophied to allow for adequate gas exchange. When a lungfish is obtaining oxygen from its gills, its circulatory system is configured similarly to the common fish. The spiral valve of the conus arteriosus is open, the bypass arterioles of the third and fourth gill arches (which do not actually have gills) are shut, the second, fifth and sixth gill arch arterioles are open, the ductus arteriosus branching off the sixth arteriole is open, and the pulmonary arteries are closed. As the water passes through the gills, the lungfish uses a buccal pump. Flow through the mouth and gills is unidirectional. Blood flow through the secondary lamellae is countercurrent to the water, maintaining a more constant concentration gradient.\n\nWhen breathing air, the spiral valve of the conus arteriosus closes (minimizing the mixing of oxygenated and deoxygenated blood), the third and fourth gill arches open, the second and fifth gill arches close (minimizing the possible loss of the oxygen obtained in the lungs through the gills), the sixth arteriole's ductus arteriosus is closed, and the pulmonary arteries open. Importantly, during air breathing, the sixth gill is still used in respiration; deoxygenated blood loses some of its carbon dioxide as it passes though the gill before reaching the lung. This is because carbon dioxide is more soluble in water. Air flow through the mouth is tidal, and through the lungs it is bidirectional and observes \"uniform pool\" diffusion of oxygen.\n\nLungfish are omnivorous, feeding on fish, insects, crustaceans, worms, mollusks, amphibians and plant matter. They have an intestinal spiral valve rather than a true stomach.\n\nAfrican and South American lungfish are capable of surviving seasonal drying out of their habitats by burrowing into mud and estivating throughout the dry season. Changes in physiology allow it to slow its metabolism to as little as 1/60th of the normal metabolic rate, and protein waste is converted from ammonia to less-toxic urea (normally, lungfish excrete nitrogenous waste as ammonia directly into the water).\n\nBurrowing is seen in at least one group of fossil lungfish, the Gnathorhizidae.\n\nLungfish can be extremely long-lived. A Queensland lungfish at the Shedd Aquarium in Chicago was part of the permanent live collection from 1933 to 2017, when it was euthanized following a decline in health consistent with old age.\n\nThe relationship of lungfishes to the rest of the bony fish is well understood:\n\nRecent molecular genetic analyses strongly support a sister relationship of lungfishes and tetrapods (Rhipidistia), with Coelacanths branching slightly earlier.\n\nThe relationships among lungfishes are significantly more difficult to resolve. While Devonian lungfish had enough bone in the skull to determine relationships, post-Devonian lungfish are represented entirely by skull roofs and teeth, as the rest of the skull is cartilaginous. Additionally, many of the taxa already identified may not be monophyletic.\n\nCurrent phylogenetic studies support the following relationships of major lungfish taxa: Class Osteichthyes, subclass Sarcopterygii, order Dipnoi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26810414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26810414", "title": "MV Empire Comet", "text": "MV Empire Comet\n\nEmpire Comet was a cargo ship that was built in 1940 by Lithgows Ltd, Port Glasgow for the Ministry of War Transport (MoWT). She was torpedoed and sunk by in June 1941.\n\n\"Empire Comet\" was built by Lithgows Ltd, Port Glasgow as yard number 941. She was launched on 21 November 1940, and completed in January 1941.\n\n\"Empire Comet\" was long, with a beam of and a depth of . She had a GRT of 6,914 and a NRT of 4,162.\"Empire Comet\" was propelled by a 4-stroke Single Cycle Single Acting diesel engine, which had eight cylinders of diameter by 59 (151 cm) stroke. The engine was built by J G Kincaid & Co Ltd, Greenock.\n\n\"Empire Comet\" was built for the MoWT. She was placed under the management of Dodd, Thompson & Co Ltd. Her port of registry was Greenock. She was allocated the United Kingdom Official Number 166990 and Code Letters GPFU were allocated.\n\n\"Empire Comet\" was a member of a number of convoys during the Second World War.\n\nConvoy HX 118 departed Halifax, Nova Scotia on 31 March 1941 and arrived at Liverpool on 18 April. \"Empire Comet\" was carrying a cargo of wheat.\n\nConvoy HX 174 departed Halifax on 7 February 1942 bound for Liverpool. \"Empire Comet\" was carrying a cargo of linseed, manganese ore, peanuts and tea. She had departed from Bombay, India on 12 November 1940 and sailed via Table Bay, South Africa and Halifax. She was bound for Manchester. \"Empire Comet\" straggled behind the convoy. At 22:17 (German time) on 17 February 1942, \"Empire Comet\" was hit by two torpedoes fired by the German submarine under the command of Heinrich Zimmerman. She sank at . All 38 crew and eight DEMS gunners were lost. The crew are commemorated on panel 39 of the Tower Hill Memorial, London.\n"}
{"id": "12858025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12858025", "title": "Margravine Johanna of Baden-Baden", "text": "Margravine Johanna of Baden-Baden\n\nAuguste of Baden-Baden (Auguste Marie Johanna; 10 November 1704 – 8 August 1726) was born a member of the ruling family of Baden-Baden and was later the Duchess of Orléans by marriage to Louis d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans. Her husband was a grandson of her father's former enemy, Louis XIV of France. Known in France as \"Auguste de Bade\", she died in childbirth. She is an ancestor of Louis Philippe I and of several members of royal families of Europe, such as the Spanish and Italian royal families, as well as the present Grand Duke of Luxemburg.\n\nAuguste was born in Aschaffenburg as the ninth child of the imperial army commander Louis William, Margrave of Baden-Baden, and of his wife Princess Sibylle of Saxe-Lauenburg, who was twenty years younger than her husband. After her father's death in 1707, her mother Sibylle became regent of the Margraviate for Auguste's brother, Louis George.\n\nHer mother was a great patron of the arts, making Baden-Baden a centre of architectural culture. Between the years of her mother's Regency (1707–1727) Sibylle ordered the construction of some four palaces in the state as well as two churches. Auguste saw the construction of the Schloss Favorite in Rastatt.\n\nHer aunt Anna Maria Franziska of Saxe-Lauenburg was the Grand Duchess of Tuscany as wife of Gian Gastone de' Medici, her husbands own distant cousin. The Italian born Prince of Carignan was also a distant cousin and was a resident at the French. Auguste was the youngest of nine children and was the only daughter to survive over the age of seven. She had one older brother, Louis George (1702–1761) the future Margrave of Baden-Baden and a younger one, Augustus George who was Margrave of Baden-Baden from 1761–1771 succeeding his brother.\n\nAs her mother was regent of Auguste's native Baden-Baden, it was her mother who tried to find a suitable candidate for her only daughter. Her mother proposed two candidates; Prince Alexander Ferdinand of Thurn and Taxis, son and heir of Anselm Franz of Thurn and Taxis, a wealthy German noble of the powerful Thurn und Taxis family and the Postmaster General of the Holy Roman Empire. The second was a French prince, Louis d'Orléans, Duke of Orléans. \n\nHer mother preferred the French match as it would strengthen ties with a powerful neighbour who prior to Auguste's birth, had ravaged Baden-Baden. Auguste however preferred the German match due to her roots. Auguste, however gave into her mother and agreed to the match with Louis d'Orléans and there was a proxy ceremony held at the Schloss Rastatt before she was married on 13 July 1724 Louis d'Orléans, the grandson of Louis XIV of France. Chosen for, among other reasons, her family's Catholicism, she brought a comparatively small dowry of 80,000 livres to the Orléans.\n\nAt the court of Versailles, she was known alternatively as \"Jeanne\" or \"Auguste de Bade\", it was as the latter which she signed. Her marriage to the \"First Prince of the Blood\" allowed her to use the style of \"Madame la Princesse\", and made her one of the most important ladies at the court of the young Louis XV of France. At the time of her marriage, the young king Louis was \"engaged\" to his first cousin the Infanta Mariana Victoria of Spain. The couple were never actually married and in 1725 she was sent back to Spain then making Auguste and her mother in law the Dowager Duchess of Orléans the most senior women at court. She was popular with the court and noted as being very charming. In 1725, Louis XV married Marie Leszczyńska, making Auguste one step behind the new queen in terms of rank and etiquette. She and her husband lived in the Château de Saint-Cloud, one of the Orléans' residences, and had also an apartment at the château of Versailles where her son Louis Philippe was born in 1725.\n\nExpecting to give birth to her second child at Versailles in early August 1726, her mother in law Dowager Duchess of Orléans forced her heavily pregnant daughter in law to return to Paris in order to have the child at the Palais-Royal. Leaving Versailles on 4 August, she had to stop at Sèvres due to the extremity of her labour pains. Despite the stop, she returned to Paris.\n\nAuguste died on 8 August 1726, at the age of twenty-two, three days after giving birth to the couple's second child at the Palais-Royal, the Paris residence of the House of Orléans. Despite the shortness of the relationship, many contemporaries said that the couple was well matched and that they had fallen in love at first sight. After her death, her husband went into a long period of mourning. It was said of Auguste that \"she had all the great qualities of the heart, that she died with the universal regret of France\".\n\nShe was buried at the Val-de-Grâce Convent in Paris. After her death, her aunt by marriage Élisabeth Charlotte d'Orléans suggested that Louis marry one of her daughters namely Élisabeth Thérèse of Lorraine and Anne Charlotte. Louis refused outright, much to the annoyance of his aunt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16909547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16909547", "title": "Marsden Jones", "text": "Marsden Jones\n\nJohn Marsden Beaumont Jones (20 December 1920 – 11 June 1992), known as Marsden Jones, was an emeritus professor and the founder and first director of the Center for Arabic Studies at the American University in Cairo.\n\nHis special interests were early Islam, the early emergence of Islamic institutions, and the study of modern Islamic movements in Egypt. He translated Al-Waqidi's \"Kitab al-Tarikh wa al-Maghazi\" and worked on early sira literature, and he helped publish a series of volumes in Arabic on Leaders of Contemporary Literature in Egypt.\n\nHe was the brother-in-law of Sir Philip Jones.\n"}
{"id": "15796083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15796083", "title": "Michael Johns (singer)", "text": "Michael Johns (singer)\n\nMichael Johns (born Michael John Lee; 20 October 1978 – 1 August 2014) was an Australian singer who finished in eighth place on the seventh season of \"American Idol\", in 2008. In 2009, he released a music album, \"Hold Back My Heart,\" which sold 20,000 copies. Johns died on 1 August 2014, at the age of 35 of dilated cardiomyopathy.\n\nJohn Lee was born in Perth, Western Australia on 20 October 1978. As a teenager, he appeared as The Coachman in \"Pinocchio\" at the Regal Theatre and was a choir singer in \"Anything Goes\" at His Majesty's Theatre. He attended Newman College in Perth. In 1997, John Lee moved to the United States on a tennis scholarship and majored in drama at Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College in Tifton, Georgia, before dropping out after two quarters. He also briefly played Australian rules football for the United States Australian Football League (USAFL) club Atlanta Kookaburras from 2001 to 2002.\n\nJohn Lee moved from Tifton to Atlanta to pursue a music career, playing cover engagements. He then joined a band called Film for 18 months. After traveling to Los Angeles to showcase for a number of labels, he was signed to Maverick Records in 2002 as a solo artist under his birth name Michael Lee. He recorded an album, and then formed a rock band called The Rising. A song from the album \"Cradle\" received some airplay, and the album titled \"Future Unknown\" was released in 2003. It was also released on iTunes in 2008 after he appeared on \"American Idol.\" After Maverick, he was signed to Columbia, but was later dropped. He started using the name Michael Johns in 2006 as an homage to his stepfather whose name, like his middle name, is John, hence \"Johns\" because there are two of them in the family.\n\nHe auditioned for the seventh season of \"American Idol\" at San Diego's Qualcomm Stadium in July 2007. He finished in eighth place in the competition.\n\nAs one of the seventh season finalists, Johns joined the 2008 American Idol Live! tour after the show. While he was on the \"Idol\" tour, he worked on a soundtrack for Olympic snowboarder Shaun White's documentary DVD \"Don't Look Down.\" The soundtrack was released by Three Rings Projects on 20 January 2009. Johns sang on all but one of the vocal tracks. In December 2008, he released a song he wrote in 2006, \"Another Christmas.\" Half the proceeds from the song were advertised as being donated to the Red Cross and half to fight amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.\n\nIn April 2009, he released \"Heart on My Sleeve,\" the lead single from \"Hold Back My Heart.\" The song debuted on Billboard's Adult Contemporary chart at number 27. The album was released on 23 June 2009, and debuted at number 97 on the \"Billboard\" 200 with 5,000 copies sold. It sold 20,000 copies as of January 2010. In 2012, he released \"Love and Sex\", a three-song EP. He also appeared briefly in a 2012 episode of \"The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills.\"\n\nJohn Lee married his wife, Stacey Vuduris, in 2007.\n\nJohns died in Tustin, California on 1 August 2014. On 18 November 2014, the coroner reported that Johns had died of dilated cardiomyopathy, which inhibited the flow of blood to his body and also caused his heart to enlarge. A fatty liver also contributed to his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "19374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19374", "title": "Model organism", "text": "Model organism\n\nA model organism is a non-human species that is extensively studied to understand particular biological phenomena, with the expectation that discoveries made in the model organism will provide insight into the workings of other organisms. Model organisms are in vivo models and are widely used to research human disease when human experimentation would be unfeasible or unethical. This strategy is made possible by the common descent of all living organisms, and the conservation of metabolic and developmental pathways and genetic material over the course of evolution.\n\nStudying model organisms can be informative, but care must be taken when extrapolating from one organism to another.\n\nIn researching human disease, model organisms allow for better understanding the disease process without the added risk of harming an actual human. The species chosen will usually meet a determined taxonomic equivalency to humans, so as to react to disease or its treatment in a way that resembles human physiology as needed. Although biological activity in a model organism does not ensure an effect in humans, many drugs, treatments and cures for human diseases are developed in part with the guidance of animal models. There are three main types of disease models: homologous, isomorphic and predictive. Homologous animals have the same causes, symptoms and treatment options as would humans who have the same disease. Isomorphic animals share the same symptoms and treatments. Predictive models are similar to a particular human disease in only a couple of aspects, but are useful in isolating and making predictions about mechanisms of a set of disease features.\n\nThe use of animals in research dates back to ancient Greece, with Aristotle (384–322 BCE) and Erasistratus (304–258 BCE) among the first to perform experiments on living animals. Discoveries in the 18th and 19th centuries included Antoine Lavoisier's use of a guinea pig in a calorimeter to prove that respiration was a form of combustion, and Louis Pasteur's demonstration of the germ theory of disease in the 1880s using anthrax in sheep.\n\nResearch using animal models has been central to many of the achievements of modern medicine. It has contributed most of the basic knowledge in fields such as human physiology and biochemistry, and has played significant roles in fields such as neuroscience and infectious disease. For example, the results have included the near-eradication of polio and the development of organ transplantation, and have benefited both humans and animals. From 1910 to 1927, Thomas Hunt Morgan's work with the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" identified chromosomes as the vector of inheritance for genes. \"Drosophila\" became one of the first, and for some time the most widely used, model organisms, and Eric Kandel wrote that Morgan's discoveries \"helped transform biology into an experimental science.\" \"D. melanogaster\" remains one of the most widely used eukaryotic model organisms. During the same time period, studies on mouse genetics in the laboratory of William Ernest Castle in collaboration with Abbie Lathrop led to generation of the DBA (\"dilute, brown and non-agouti\") inbred mouse strain and the systematic generation of other inbred strains. The mouse has since been used extensively as a model organism and is associated with many important biological discoveries of the 20th and 21st centuries.\n\nIn the late 19th century, Emil von Behring isolated the diphtheria toxin and demonstrated its effects in guinea pigs. He went on to develop an antitoxin against diphtheria in animals and then in humans, which resulted in the modern methods of immunization and largely ended diphtheria as a threatening disease. The diphtheria antitoxin is famously commemorated in the Iditarod race, which is modeled after the delivery of antitoxin in the 1925 serum run to Nome. The success of animal studies in producing the diphtheria antitoxin has also been attributed as a cause for the decline of the early 20th-century opposition to animal research in the United States.\n\nSubsequent research in model organisms led to further medical advances, such as Frederick Banting's research in dogs, which determined that the isolates of pancreatic secretion could be used to treat dogs with diabetes. This led to the 1922 discovery of insulin (with John Macleod) and its use in treating diabetes, which had previously meant death. John Cade's research in guinea pigs discovered the anticonvulsant properties of lithium salts, which revolutionized the treatment of bipolar disorder, replacing the previous treatments of lobotomy or electroconvulsive therapy. Modern general anaesthetics, such as halothane and related compounds, were also developed through studies on model organisms, and are necessary for modern, complex surgical operations.\n\nIn the 1940s, Jonas Salk used rhesus monkey studies to isolate the most virulent forms of the polio virus, which led to his creation of a polio vaccine. The vaccine, which was made publicly available in 1955, reduced the incidence of polio 15-fold in the United States over the following five years. Albert Sabin improved the vaccine by passing the polio virus through animal hosts, including monkeys; the Sabin vaccine was produced for mass consumption in 1963, and had virtually eradicated polio in the United States by 1965. It has been estimated that developing and producing the vaccines required the use of 100,000 rhesus monkeys, with 65 doses of vaccine produced from each monkey. Sabin wrote in 1992, \"Without the use of animals and human beings, it would have been impossible to acquire the important knowledge needed to prevent much suffering and premature death not only among humans, but also among animals.\"\n\nOther 20th-century medical advances and treatments that relied on research performed in animals include organ transplant techniques, the heart-lung machine, antibiotics, and the whooping cough vaccine. Treatments for animal diseases have also been developed, including for rabies, anthrax, glanders, feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), tuberculosis, Texas cattle fever, classical swine fever (hog cholera), heartworm, and other parasitic infections. Animal experimentation continues to be required for biomedical research, and is used with the aim of solving medical problems such as Alzheimer's disease, AIDS, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, many headaches, and other conditions in which there is no useful \"in vitro\" model system available.\n\nModels are those organisms with a wealth of biological data that make them attractive to study as examples for other species and/or natural phenomena that are more difficult to study directly. Continual research on these organisms focus on a wide variety of experimental techniques and goals from many different levels of biology—from ecology, behavior and biomechanics, down to the tiny functional scale of individual tissues, organelles and proteins. Inquiries about the DNA of organisms are classed as genetic models (with short generation times, such as the fruitfly and nematode worm), experimental models, and genomic parsimony models, investigating pivotal position in the evolutionary tree. Historically, model organisms include a handful of species with extensive genomic research data, such as the NIH model organisms.\n\nOften, model organisms are chosen on the basis that they are amenable to experimental manipulation. This usually will include characteristics such as short life-cycle, techniques for genetic manipulation (inbred strains, stem cell lines, and methods of transformation) and non-specialist living requirements. Sometimes, the genome arrangement facilitates the sequencing of the model organism's genome, for example, by being very compact or having a low proportion of junk DNA (e.g. yeast, arabidopsis, or pufferfish).\n\nWhen researchers look for an organism to use in their studies, they look for several traits. Among these are size, generation time, accessibility, manipulation, genetics, conservation of mechanisms, and potential economic benefit. As comparative molecular biology has become more common, some researchers have sought model organisms from a wider assortment of lineages on the tree of life.\n\nThe primary reason for the use of model organisms in research is the evolutionary principle that all organisms share some degree of relatedness and genetic similarity due to common ancestry. The study of taxonomic human relatives, then, can provide a great deal of information about mechanism and disease within the human body that can be useful in medicine.\n\nVarious phylogenetic trees for vertebrates have been constructed using comparative proteomics, genetics, genomics as well as the geochemical and fossil record. These estimations tell us that humans and chimpanzees last shared a common ancestor about 6 million years ago (mya). As our closest relatives, chimpanzees have a lot of potential to tell us about mechanisms of disease (and what genes may be responsible for human intelligence). However, chimpanzees are rarely used in research and are protected from highly invasive procedures. The most common animal model is the rodent. Phylogenetic trees estimate that humans and rodents last shared a common ancestor ~80-100mya. Despite this distant split, humans and rodents have far more similarities than they do differences. This is due to the relative stability of large portions of the genome; making the use of vertebrate animals particularly productive.\n\nGenomic data is used to make close comparisons between species and determine relatedness. As humans, we share about 99% of our genome with chimpanzees (98.7% with bonobos) and over 90% with the mouse. With so much of the genome conserved across species, it is relatively impressive that the differences between humans and mice can be accounted for in approximately six thousand genes (of ~30,000 total). Scientists have been able to take advantage of these similarities in generating experimental and predictive models of human disease.\n\nThere are many model organisms. One of the first model systems for molecular biology was the bacterium \"Escherichia coli\", a common constituent of the human digestive system. Several of the bacterial viruses (bacteriophage) that infect \"E. coli\" also have been very useful for the study of gene structure and gene regulation (e.g. phages Lambda and T4). However, it is debated whether bacteriophages should be classified as organisms, because they lack metabolism and depend on functions of the host cells for propagation.\n\nIn eukaryotes, several yeasts, particularly \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" (\"baker's\" or \"budding\" yeast), have been widely used in genetics and cell biology, largely because they are quick and easy to grow. The cell cycle in a simple yeast is very similar to the cell cycle in humans and is regulated by homologous proteins. The fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" is studied, again, because it is easy to grow for an animal, has various visible congenital traits and has a polytene (giant) chromosome in its salivary glands that can be examined under a light microscope. The roundworm \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" is studied because it has very defined development patterns involving fixed numbers of cells, and it can be rapidly assayed for abnormalities.\n\nAnimal models serving in research may have an existing, inbred or induced disease or injury that is similar to a human condition. These test conditions are often termed as animal models of disease. The use of animal models allows researchers to investigate disease states in ways which would be inaccessible in a human patient, performing procedures on the non-human animal that imply a level of harm that would not be considered ethical to inflict on a human.\n\nThe best models of disease are similar in etiology (mechanism of cause) and phenotype (signs and symptoms) to the human equivalent. However complex human diseases can often be better understood in a simplified system in which individual parts of the disease process are isolated and examined. For instance, behavioral analogues of anxiety or pain in laboratory animals can be used to screen and test new drugs for the treatment of these conditions in humans. A 2000 study found that animal models concorded (coincided on true positives and false negatives) with human toxicity in 71% of cases, with 63% for nonrodents alone and 43% for rodents alone.\n\nIn 1987, Davidson et al. suggested that selection of an animal model for research be based on nine considerations. These include \"1) appropriateness as an analog, 2) transferability of information, 3) genetic uniformity of organisms, where applicable, 4) background knowledge of biological properties, 5) cost and availability, 6) generalizability of the results, 7) ease of and adaptability to experimental manipulation, 8) ecological consequences, and 9) ethical implications.\"\n\nAnimal models can be classified as homologous, isomorphic or predictive. Animal models can also be more broadly classified into four categories: 1) experimental, 2) spontaneous, 3) negative, 4) orphan.\n\nExperimental models are most common. These refer to models of disease that resemble human conditions in phenotype or response to treatment but are induced artificially in the laboratory. Some examples include:\n\n\nSpontaneous models refer to diseases that are analogous to human conditions that occur naturally in the animal being studied. These models are rare, but informative. Negative models essentially refer to control animals, which are useful for validating an experimental result. Orphan models refer to diseases for which there is no human analog and occur exclusively in the species studied.\n\nThe increase in knowledge of the genomes of non-human primates and other mammals that are genetically close to humans is allowing the production of genetically engineered animal tissues, organs and even animal species which express human diseases, providing a more robust model of human diseases in an animal model.\n\nAnimal models observed in the sciences of psychology and sociology are often termed animal models of behavior. It is difficult to build an animal model that perfectly reproduces the symptoms of depression in patients. Depression, as other mental disorders, consists of endophenotypes that can be reproduced independently and evaluated in animals. An ideal animal model offers an opportunity to understand molecular, genetic and epigenetic factors that may lead to depression. By using animal models, the underlying molecular alterations and the causal relationship between genetic or environmental alterations and depression can be examined, which would afford a better insight into pathology of depression. In addition, animal models of depression are indispensable for identifying novel therapies for depression.\n\nModel organisms are drawn from all three domains of life, as well as viruses. The most widely studied prokaryotic model organism is \"Escherichia coli\" (\"E. coli\"), which has been intensively investigated for over 60 years. It is a common, gram-negative gut bacterium which can be grown and cultured easily and inexpensively in a laboratory setting. It is the most widely used organism in molecular genetics, and is an important species in the fields of biotechnology and microbiology, where it has served as the host organism for the majority of work with recombinant DNA.\n\nSimple model eukaryotes include baker's yeast (\"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\") and fission yeast (\"Schizosaccharomyces pombe\"), both of which share many characters with higher cells, including those of humans. For instance, many cell division genes that are critical for the development of cancer have been discovered in yeast. \"Chlamydomonas reinhardtii\", a unicellular green alga with well-studied genetics, is used to study photosynthesis and motility. \"C. reinhardtii\" has many known and mapped mutants and expressed sequence tags, and there are advanced methods for genetic transformation and selection of genes. \"Dictyostelium discoideum\" is used in molecular biology and genetics, and is studied as an example of cell communication, differentiation, and programmed cell death.\nAmong invertebrates, the fruit fly \"Drosophila melanogaster\" is famous as the subject of genetics experiments by Thomas Hunt Morgan and others. They are easily raised in the lab, with rapid generations, high fecundity, few chromosomes, and easily induced observable mutations. The nematode \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" is used for understanding the genetic control of development and physiology. It was first proposed as a model for neuronal development by Sydney Brenner in 1963, and has been extensively used in many different contexts since then. \"C. elegans\" was the first multicellular organism whose genome was completely sequenced, and as of 2012, the only organism to have its connectome (neuronal \"wiring diagram\") completed.\n\n\"Arabidopsis thaliana\" is currently the most popular model plant. Its small stature and short generation time facilitates rapid genetic studies, and many phenotypic and biochemical mutants have been mapped. \"A. thaliana\" was the first plant to have its genome sequenced.\n\nAmong vertebrates, guinea pigs (\"Cavia porcellus\") were used by Robert Koch and other early bacteriologists as a host for bacterial infections, becoming a byword for \"laboratory animal,\" but are less commonly used today. The classic model vertebrate is currently the mouse (\"Mus musculus\"). Many inbred strains exist, as well as lines selected for particular traits, often of medical interest, e.g. body size, obesity, muscularity, and voluntary wheel-running behavior.\nThe rat (\"Rattus norvegicus\") is particularly useful as a toxicology model, and as a neurological model and source of primary cell cultures, owing to the larger size of organs and suborganellar structures relative to the mouse, while eggs and embryos from \"Xenopus tropicalis\" and \"Xenopus laevis\" (African clawed frog) are used in developmental biology, cell biology, toxicology, and neuroscience. Likewise, the zebrafish (\"Danio rerio\") has a nearly transparent body during early development, which provides unique visual access to the animal's internal anatomy during this time period. Zebrafish are used to study development, toxicology and toxicopathology, specific gene function and roles of signaling pathways.\n\nOther important model organisms and some of their uses include: T4 phage (viral infection), \"Tetrahymena thermophila\" (intracellular processes), maize (transposons), \"hydras\" (regeneration and morphogenesis), cats (neurophysiology), chickens (development), dogs (respiratory and cardiovascular systems), \"Nothobranchius furzeri\" (aging), and non-human primates such as the rhesus macaque and chimpanzee (hepatitis, HIV, Parkinson's disease, cognition, and vaccines).\n\nThe organisms below have become model organisms because they facilitate the study of certain characters or because of their genetic accessibility. For example, \"E. coli\" was one of the first organisms for which genetic techniques such as transformation or genetic manipulation has been developed.\n\nThe genomes of all model species have been sequenced, including their mitochondrial/chloroplast genomes. Model organism databases exist to provide researchers with a portal from which to download sequences (DNA, RNA, or protein) or to access functional information on specific genes, for example the sub-cellular localization of the gene product or its physiological role.\n\nMany animal models serving as test subjects in biomedical research, such as rats and mice, may be selectively sedentary, obese and glucose intolerant. This may confound their use to model human metabolic processes and diseases as these can be affected by dietary energy intake and exercise. Similarly, there are differences between the immune systems of model organisms and humans that lead to significantly altered responses to stimuli, although the underlying principles of genome function may be the same.\n\nSome studies suggests that inadequate published data in animal testing may result in irreproducible research, with missing details about how experiments are done omitted from published papers or differences in testing that may introduce bias. Examples of hidden bias include a 2014 study from McGill University in Montreal, Canada which suggests that mice handled by men rather than women showed higher stress levels. Another study in 2016 suggested that gut microbiomes in mice may have an impact upon scientific research.\n\nEthical concerns, as well as the cost, maintenance and relative inefficiency of animal research has encouraged development of alternative methods for the study of disease. Cell culture, or \"in vitro\" studies, provide an alternative that preserves the physiology of the living cell, but does not require the sacrifice of an animal for mechanistic studies. Human, inducible pluripotent stem cells can also elucidate new mechanisms for understanding cancer and cell regeneration. Imaging studies (such as MRI or PET scans) enable non-invasive study of human subjects. Recent advances in genetics and genomics can identify disease-associated genes, which can be targeted for therapies. \nUltimately, however, there is no substitute for a living organism when studying complex interactions in disease pathology or treatments.\n\nDebate about the ethical use of animals in research dates at least as far back as 1822 when the British Parliament enacted the first law for animal protection preventing cruelty to cattle. This was followed by the Cruelty to Animals Act of 1835 and 1849, which criminalized ill-treating, over-driving, and torturing animals. In 1876, under pressure from the National Anti-Vivisection Society, the Cruelty to Animals Act was amended to include regulations governing the use of animals in research. This new act stipulated that 1) experiments must be proven absolutely necessary for instruction, or to save or prolong human life; 2) animals must be properly anesthetized; and 3) animals must be killed as soon as the experiment is over. Today, these three principles are central to the laws and guidelines governing the use of animals and research. In the U.S., the Animal Welfare Act of 1970 (see also Laboratory Animal Welfare Act) set standards for animal use and care in research. This law is enforced by APHIS’s Animal Care program.\n\nIn academic settings in which NIH funding is used for animal research, institutions are governed by the NIH Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare (OLAW). At each site, OLAW guidelines and standards are upheld by a local review board called the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC). All laboratory experiments involving living animals are reviewed and approved by this committee. In addition to proving the potential for benefit to human health, minimization of pain and distress, and timely and humane euthanasia, experimenters must justify their protocols based on the principles of Replacement, Reduction and Refinement.\n\nReplacement refers to efforts to engage alternatives to animal use. This includes the use of computer models, non-living tissues and cells, and replacement of “higher-order” animals (primates and mammals) with “lower” order animals (e.g. cold-blooded animals, invertebrates, bacteria) wherever possible.\n\nReduction refers to efforts to minimize number of animals used during the course of an experiment, as well as prevention of unnecessary replication of previous experiments. To satisfy this requirement, mathematical calculations of statistical power are employed to determine the minimum number of animals that can be used to get a statistically significant experimental result.\n\nRefinement refers to efforts to make experimental design as painless and efficient as possible in order to minimize the suffering of each animal subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "24618587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24618587", "title": "Nick Mennell", "text": "Nick Mennell\n\nNick Mennell is an American actor known for his stage work as well as his roles in the horror/slasher remakes of \"Halloween\", and \"Friday the 13th\".\n\nMennell graduated from Juilliard School in 2005.\n\nIn 2007, Mennell was cast as Bob Simms, in the remake of the 1978 John Carpenter classic \"Halloween\". The film was directed by Rob Zombie, and starred Scout Taylor-Compton, Danielle Harris, Malcolm McDowell, and Tyler Mane as Michael Myers. The film opened on August 31, 2007, and debut at number one at the box office.\n\nIn 2008, Mennell was cast as Mike in the 2009 version of \"Friday the 13th\" and was directed by Marcus Nispel. The film also starred Amanda Righetti, Jared Padalecki, Danielle Panabaker, and Derek Mears as Jason Voorhees. The film opened on February 13, 2009, and debuted at number one at the box office. He stars also in the 2009 shot Fantasy horror film \"The Black Waters of Echo's Pond\", which is directed by Gabriel Bologna.\n"}
{"id": "24453274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24453274", "title": "O/OREOS", "text": "O/OREOS\n\nThe O/OREOS (Organism/Organic Exposure to Orbital Stresses) is an automated CubeSat nanosatellite laboratory approximately the size of a loaf of bread that contains two separate astrobiology experiments on board. Developed by the Small Spacecraft Division at NASA Ames Research Center, the spacecraft was successfully launched as a secondary payload on STP-S26 led by the Space Test Program of the United States Air Force on a Minotaur IV rocket from Kodiak Island, Alaska on November 19, 2010.\n\nThe O/OREOS satellite is NASA's first cubesat to demonstrate the capability to have two distinct, completely independent science experiments on an autonomous satellite. One experiment will test how microorganisms survive and adapt to the stresses of space; the other will monitor the stability of organic molecules in space.\n\nThe overall goal of the O/OREOS mission is to demonstrate the capability to do low-cost science experiments on autonomous nanosatellites in space in support of the 'Astrobiology Small Payloads' program under the Planetary Science Division of the Science Mission Directorate at NASA's Headquarters. NASA's Ames Small Spacecraft Division manages the O/OREOS mission while all operations will be conducted by staff and students from the Robotic Systems Laboratory at Santa Clara University. Scientists will apply the knowledge they gain while investigating the space environment and studying how exposure to space changes organisms to help to answer astrobiology's fundamental questions on the origin, evolution, and distribution of life.\n\nThe technology developed in this mission enables a new generation of light-weight, low-cost payloads suitable for future secondary payload opportunities —\"piggyback rides\"— to the Moon, Mars, and beyond, where they can address evolutionary questions, identify human exploration risks, and study planetary protection concerns.\n\nContinuing Ames' development of triple-cube nanosatellite technology and flight systems, which includes the successful GeneSat-1 and PharmaSat missions, O/OREOS is constructed from off-the-shelf commercial and NASA-designed parts to create a fully self-contained, automated, stable, light-weight space science laboratory with innovative environment and power-control techniques. The spacecraft is equipped with sensors to monitor the levels of internal pressure, temperature, humidity, radiation and acceleration while its communications system regularly transmits data back to Earth for scientific analysis.\n\nThe organics payload will house 24 samples in four separate micro-environments to mimic space, lunar, Martian and \"wet\" planetary conditions. The samples are housed in a rotating carousel and are imaged regularly with UV/VIS spectroscopic instrumentation while being exposed to the space environment.\n\nThe biological payload is a self-contained pressure vessel which provides life support (air pressure, humidity, growth media, and temperature control) for organisms as they are exposed to the radiation and weightless conditions in space for six months.\n\nIn addition to the experiments, the satellite is equipped with a passive magnetic attitude control system, solar panels to generate electric power, a UHF amateur band radio beacon which broadcasts real-time telemetry, battery packs, and NASA's first propellant-less mechanism to ensure that once O/OREOS has completed its mission it will de-orbit and burn up as it re-enters Earth's atmosphere.\n\nThe goals of the O/OREOS mission include:\n\nThe O/OREOS Space Environment Survivability of Live Organisms (SESLO) experiment will characterize the growth, activity, health and ability of microorganisms to adapt to the stresses of the space environment. The experiment is sealed in a vessel at one atmosphere and contains two types of bacteria commonly found in salt ponds and soil: \"Halorubrum chaoviatoris\", which thrives in the sort of briny water that may exist below the surface of Mars or on Jupiter's moon Europa, and \"Bacillus subtilis\", which holds the record for surviving in space for the longest duration (6 years on a NASA satellite). The bacteria were launched as dried spores and revived at different times during the mission with a nutrient-filled fluid a few days, three months and six months after launch.\n\nOnce the satellite is in orbit, the bacteria are constantly being exposed to low Earth orbit radiation while floating in micro-gravity. The SESLO experiment measures the microbes' population density. There was an expected change in color as dyed liquid nutrients were consumed and metabolized by the microorganisms. This color change is used to determine the effects of the combined exposure to space radiation and microgravity on organism growth, health, and survival when compared to a ground-based control experiment.\n\nThe SESLO experiment measured the long-term survival, germination, and growth responses, including metabolic activity.\n\nThe O/OREOS Space Environment Viability of Organics (SEVO) experiment will monitor the stability and changes in four classes organic matter as they are exposed to space conditions. Scientists selected the organic samples to represent some building blocks of life and abundant aromatic molecules, they think are distributed throughout the Milky Way galaxy.\n\nThe controlled environments in the SEVO reaction cells do not accurately represent natural environments; rather, they are used to establish a set of initial conditions for the chemical reactants involved in photochemical experiments. These reactants were chosen because they can be related to fundamental processes believed to occur in planetary surface environments, comets, and the interstellar medium. As such, each of the different cell types was carefully chosen to simulate important aspects of astrobiologically relevant environments.\n\nFour classes of organic compounds, namely an amino acid, a quinone, a\npolycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) and a metallo-porphyrin are being studied. The compounds were placed in four different micro-environments that simulate some conditions in interplanetary space, on the Moon, on Mars and in the outer Solar System. The experiment continuously exposes the organic matter to radiation in the form of solar ultraviolet (UV) light, visible light, trapped-particle and cosmic radiation over six months in space. Scientists will determine the stability of the organic matter by studying \"in-situ\" the changes in UV, visible and near-infrared light absorption through daily measurements. \nThe survival rate of these molecules will help determine whether some of Earth's biochemistry might have been performed in space and later delivered by meteorites. The data may also help in deciding which molecules are good biomarkers that can signal the existence of past or present life on another world.\n\nSpectra from the PAH thin film in a water-vapor-containing microenvironment indicate measurable change due to solar irradiation in orbit, while three other nominally water-free microenvironments show no appreciable change. The quinone anthrarufin showed high photostability and no significant spectroscopically measurable change in any of the four microenvironments during the same period.\n\nO/OREOS is equipped with an amateur radio beacon which operates at 437.305 MHz. HAM radio operators can decode the satellite's AX.25 packets and submit them to NASA via the beacon processing website.\n\nIn the fall of 2011, nearly 100,000 beacon packets have been submitted by amateurs in 20 countries. About 6 MB of data have been downlinked and processed by the Santa Clara University operation team through S-band (WiFi) bidirectional radio. In addition to the science results from both payloads, these data include measurements of the radiation dose, rotation data, temperature, and health status of the spacecraft. Multiple commands were uplinked successfully to tune operational parameters.\n\nAll three biological experiments using the SESLO payload are complete; they were executed on December 3, 2010, February 18 and May 19, 2011. From the SEVO experiment, the project observed nominal spectrometer function, and so far 24 sets of 24 UV-visible spectra have been recorded and downlinked, amounting to nearly 600 spectra from 4 organic sample types embedded in 4 microenvironments.\n\n"}
{"id": "2912682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2912682", "title": "Poo-Chi", "text": "Poo-Chi\n\nPoo-Chi (or Poochi, Poochie), one of the first generations of robopet toys, is a robot dog designed by Samuel James Lloyd and Matt Lucas, manufactured by Sega Toys, and distributed by Tiger Toys. Poo-Chi was released in 2000 and discontinued in 2002.\n\nSega Toys' Poo-Chi hit markets on 1 April 2000, with Hasbro's Tiger Electronics distributing the toy in all countries other than Japan and Korea. Retailing at a price of 3,980 yen (then the equivalent of $38 USD) in Japan and $24.99 in the United States, the toy offered significantly cheaper competition to the AIBO's prices of up to 250,000 yen (then $2,400 USD). At the time, Hasbro's sales in their leading Furby line were slowing since its initial release in 1998 and sales of Star Wars branded merchandise was in decline. The Poo-Chi's release was a success, selling over 10 million units worldwide over the span of 8 months since its initial debut.\n\nSpecial editions of the Poo-Chi soon sprouted, such as the \"102 Dalmatians\" holiday release of three Poo-Chis resembling the characters Domino, Little Dipper, and Oddball. In addition to special editions, an upgraded version, the Super Poo-Chi, and differing breeds of the Poo-Chi were released (all of which could communicate together), along with spin-offs such as the Meow-Chi and the Chirpy-Chi. Miniature versions were featured as toys in the McDonald's Happy Meal.\n\nPoo-Chi stopped selling in 2002, having been replaced by FurReal Friends.\n\nThe original Poo-Chi had a gray body with ears, tail, and leg joints of either purple, blue, pink or green colour. With four legs allowing the toy to stand up or lie down, it utilized a red LED display as eyes to show emotion.\n\nThe Christmas Special Edition Poo-Chi was offered for a limited time, coloured red and white with snowflake designs throughout the body, ears, with an interactive bone included in its seasonal box. The toy had its list of songs updated to include Christmas music. The Christmas Special Edition was only available in a handful of countries and retailed for 2–3 months, making it the rarest and most collectible of the genre with collectors realizing in excess of $300 USD for boxed Christmas Poo-Chi units.\n\nPoo-Chi spoke using prerecorded sounds such as barks, whines, and growls. Due to limitations of the toy's technology, most of the sounds were rendered as beeps rather than a realistic sound effect. Poo-Chi could also \"bark\" songs, which could be prompted by pressing the button on the top of its head.\n\nMultiple spin-offs of the Poo-Chi were produced. All were based on different animals, other than the Super Poo-Chi, a larger version of the original toy.\n\n\nThe Poo-Chi could \"sing\" one of 6 songs when following the light sensor in its nose being activated, the touch sensor on its head was pressed. The toy would then emit a series of high-pitched beeps. The user could afterwards press the touch sensor, the number of times the sensor having been pressed corresponding to a different tune. The different songs the Poo-Chi could play are as follows:\nPoo-Chi would often sing \"Ode to Joy\" by Ludwig van Beethoven when happy, and if another Poo-Chi or Robo-Chi pet was nearby (such as a Meow-Chi), that other Robo-Chi would begin to sing \"Ode to Joy\" as well, though the playback would not be synchronized.\n\n"}
{"id": "77182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77182", "title": "Prejudice", "text": "Prejudice\n\nPrejudice, or bigotry, is an affective feeling towards a person or group member based solely on that person's group membership (tribal behavior). The word is often used to refer to preconceived, usually unfavorable, feelings towards people or a person because of their sex, gender, beliefs, values, social class, age, disability, religion, sexuality, race/ethnicity, language, nationality, beauty, occupation, education, criminality, sport team affiliation or other personal characteristics. In this case, it refers to a positive or negative evaluation of another person based on that person's perceived group membership.\n\nPrejudice can also refer to unfounded or pigeonholed beliefs and it may include \"any unreasonable attitude that is unusually resistant to rational influence\". Gordon Allport defined prejudice as a \"feeling, favorable or unfavorable, toward a person or thing, prior to, or not based on, actual experience\". For the evolutionary psychology perspective, see Prejudice from an evolutionary perspective. Auestad (2015) defines prejudice as characterized by 'symbolic transfer', transfer of a value-laden meaning content onto a socially formed category and then on to individuals who are taken to belong to that category, resistance to change, and overgeneralization.\n\nThe first psychological research conducted on prejudice occurred in the 1920s. This research attempted to prove white supremacy. One article from 1925 which reviewed 73 studies on race concluded that the studies seemed \"to indicate the mental superiority of the white race\". These studies, along with other research, led many psychologists to view prejudice as a natural response to inferior races.\n\nIn the 1930s and 1940s, this perspective began to change due to the increasing concern about anti-Semitism. At the time, theorists viewed prejudice as pathological and they thus looked for personality syndromes linked with racism. Theodor Adorno believed that prejudice stemmed from an authoritarian personality; he believed that people with authoritarian personalities were the most likely to be prejudiced against groups of lower status. He described authoritarians as \"rigid thinkers who obeyed authority, saw the world as black and white, and enforced strict adherence to social rules and hierarchies\".\n\nIn 1954, Gordon Allport, in his classic work \"The Nature of Prejudice\", linked prejudice to categorical thinking. Allport claimed that prejudice is a natural and normal process for humans. According to him, \"The human mind must think with the aid of categories… Once formed, categories are the basis for normal prejudgment. We cannot possibly avoid this process. Orderly living depends upon it.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, research began to show that prejudice tends to be based on favoritism towards one's own groups, rather than negative feelings towards another group. According to Marilyn Brewer, prejudice \"may develop not because outgroups are hated, but because positive emotions such as admiration, sympathy, and trust are reserved for the ingroup.\"\n\nIn 1979, Thomas Pettigrew described the ultimate attribution error and its role in prejudice. The ultimate attribution error occurs when ingroup members \"(1) attribute negative outgroup behavior to dispositional causes (more than they would for identical ingroup behavior), and (2) attribute positive outgroup behavior to one or more of the following causes: (a) a fluke or exceptional case, (b) luck or special advantage, (c) high motivation and effort, and (d) situational factors.\"\n\nYoueng-Bruehl (1996) argued that prejudice cannot be treated in the singular; one should rather speak of different prejudices as characteristic of different character types. Her theory defines prejudices as being social defences, distinguishing between an obsessional character structure, primarily linked with anti-semitism, hysterical characters, primarily associated with racism, and narcissistic characters, linked with sexism.\n\nThe out-group homogeneity effect is the perception that members of an out-group are more similar (homogenous) than members of the in-group. Social psychologists Quattrone and Jones conducted a study demonstrating this with students from the rival schools Princeton University and Rutgers University. Students at each school were shown videos of other students from each school choosing a type of music to listen to for an auditory perception study. Then the participants were asked to guess what percentage of the videotaped students' classmates would choose the same. Participants predicted a much greater similarity between out-group members (the rival school) than between members of their in-group.\n\nThe justification-suppression model of prejudice was created by Christian Crandall and Amy Eshleman. This model explains that people face a conflict between the desire to express prejudice and the desire to maintain a positive self-concept. This conflict causes people to search for justification for disliking an out-group, and to use that justification to avoid negative feelings (cognitive dissonance) about themselves when they act on their dislike of the out-group.\n\nThe realistic conflict theory states that competition between limited resources leads to increased negative prejudices and discrimination. This can be seen even when the resource is insignificant. In the Robber's Cave experiment, negative prejudice and hostility was created between two summer camps after sports competitions for small prizes. The hostility was lessened after the two competing camps were forced to cooperate on tasks to achieve a common goal.\n\nAnother contemporary theory is the integrated threat theory (ITT), which was developed by Walter G Stephan. It draws from and builds upon several other psychological explanations of prejudice and ingroup/outgroup behaviour, such as the realistic conflict theory and symbolic racism. It also uses the social identity theory perspective as the basis for its validity; that is, it assumes that individuals operate in a group-based context where group memberships form a part of individual identity. ITT posits that outgroup prejudice and discrimination is caused when individuals perceive an outgroup to be threatening in some way. ITT defines four threats: \n\nRealistic threats are tangible, such as competition for a natural resource or a threat to income. Symbolic threats arise from a perceived difference in cultural values between groups or a perceived imbalance of power (for example, an ingroup perceiving an outgroup's religion as incompatible with theirs). Intergroup anxiety is a feeling of uneasiness experienced in the presence of an outgroup or outgroup member, which constitutes a threat because interactions with other groups cause negative feelings (e.g., a threat to comfortable interactions). Negative stereotypes are similarly threats, in that individuals anticipate negative behaviour from outgroup members in line with the perceived stereotype (for example, that the outgroup is violent). Often these stereotypes are associated with emotions such as fear and anger. ITT differs from other threat theories by including intergroup anxiety and negative stereotypes as threat types.\n\nAdditionally, social dominance theory states that society can be viewed as group-based hierarchies. In competition for scarce resources such as housing or employment, dominant groups create prejudiced \"legitimizing myths\" to provide moral and intellectual justification for their dominant position over other groups and validate their claim over the limited resources. Legitimizing myths, such as discriminatory hiring practices or biased merit norms, work to maintain these prejudiced hierarchies.\n\nPrejudice can be a central contributing factor to depression. This can occur in someone who is a prejudice victim, being the target of someone else's prejudice, or when people have prejudice against themselves that causes their own depression.\n\nPaul Bloom argues that while prejudice can be irrational and have terrible consequences, it is natural and often quite rational. This is because prejudices are based on the human tendency to categorise objects and people based on prior experience. This means people make predictions about things in a category based on prior experience with that category, with the resulting predictions usually being accurate (though not always). Bloom argues that this process of categorisation and prediction is necessary for survival and normal interaction, quoting William Hazlitt, who stated \"Without the aid of prejudice and custom, I should not be able to find my way my across the room; nor know how to conduct myself in any circumstances, nor what to feel in any relation of life\".\n\nIn recent years, researchers have argued that the study of prejudice has been traditionally too narrow. It is argued that since prejudice is defined as a negative affect towards members of a group, there are many groups against whom prejudice is acceptable (such as rapists, men who abandon their families, pedophiles, neo-Nazis, drink-drivers, queue jumpers, murderers etc.), yet such prejudices aren't studied. It has been suggested that researchers have focused too much on an evaluative approach to prejudice, rather than a descriptive approach, which looks at the actual psychological mechanisms behind prejudiced attitudes. It is argued that this limits research to targets of prejudice to groups deemed to be receiving unjust treatment, while groups researchers deem treated justly or deservedly of prejudice are overlooked. As a result, the scope of prejudice has begun to expand in research, allowing a more accurate analysis of the relationship between psychological traits and prejudice.\n\nOne can be prejudiced against or have a preconceived notion about someone due to any characteristic they find to be unusual or undesirable. A few commonplace examples of prejudice are those based on someone's race, gender, nationality, social status, sexual orientation, or religious affiliation, and controversies may arise from any given topic.\n\nSexism, also called gender discrimination, is prejudice or discrimination based on a person's sex or gender. Sexism can affect either gender, but it is particularly documented as affecting women and girls. The discussion of such sentiments, and actual gender differences and stereotypes continue to be controversial topics. Throughout history, women have been thought of as being subordinate to men, often being ignored in areas like the academia or belittled altogether. Traditionally, men were thought of as being more capable than women, mentally and physically. In the field of social psychology, prejudice studies like the \"Who Likes Competent Women\" study led the way for gender-based research on prejudice. This resulted in two broad themes or focuses in the field: the first being a focus on attitudes toward gender equality, and the second focusing on people's beliefs about men and women. Today, studies based on sexism continue in the field of psychology as researchers try to understand how people's thoughts, feelings, and behaviors influence and are influenced by others.\n\nNationalism is a sentiment based on common cultural characteristics that binds a population and often produces a policy of national independence or separatism. It suggests a \"shared identity\" amongst a nation's people that minimizes differences within the group and emphasizes perceived boundaries between the group and non-members. This leads to the assumption that members of the nation have more in common than they actually do, that they are \"culturally unified\", even if injustices within the nation based on differences like status and race exist. During times of conflict between one nation and another, nationalism is controversial since it may function as a buffer for criticism when it comes to the nation's own problems since it makes the nation's own hierarchies and internal conflicts appear to be natural. It may also serve a way of rallying the people of the nation in support of a particular political goal. Nationalism usually involves a push for conformity, obedience, and solidarity amongst the nation's people and can result not only in feelings of public responsibility but also in a narrow sense of community due to the exclusion of those who are considered outsiders. Since the identity of nationalists is linked to their allegiance to the state, the presence of strangers who do not share this allegiance may result in hostility.\n\nClassism is defined by dictionary.com as \"a biased or discriminatory attitude on distinctions made between social or economic classes.\" The idea of separating people based on class is controversial in itself. Some argue that economic inequality is an unavoidable aspect of society, so there will always be a ruling class. Some also argue that, even within the most egalitarian societies in history, some form of ranking based on social status takes place. Therefore, one may believe the existence of social classes is a natural feature of society.\n\nOthers argue the contrary. According to anthropological evidence, for the majority of the time the human species has been in existence, humans have lived in a manner in which the land and resources were not privately owned. Also, when social ranking did occur, it was not antagonistic or hostile like the current class system. This evidence has been used to support the idea that the existence of a social class system is unnecessary. Overall, society has neither come to a consensus over the necessity of the class system, nor been able to deal with the hostility and prejudice that occurs because of the class system.\n\nOne's sexual orientation is the \"direction of one's sexual interest toward members of the same, opposite, or both sexes\". Like most minority groups, homosexuals and bisexuals are not immune to prejudice or stereotypes from the majority group. They may experience hatred from others because of their sexual preferences; a term for such intense hatred based upon one's sexual orientation is \"homophobia\".\n\nDue to what social psychologists call the vividness effect, a tendency to notice only certain distinctive characteristics, the majority population tends to draw conclusions like gays flaunt their sexuality. Such images may be easily recalled to mind due to their vividness, making it harder to appraise the entire situation. The majority population may not only think that homosexuals flaunt their sexuality or are \"too gay\", but may also erroneously believe that homosexuals are easy to identify and label as being gay or lesbian when compared to others who are not homosexual.\n\nThe idea of heterosexual privilege seems to flourish in society. Research and questionnaires are formulated to fit the majority; i.e., heterosexuals. This discussion of whether heterosexuals are the privileged group and whether homosexuals are a minimized group is controversial. Research shows that discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation is a powerful feature of many labor markets. For example, controlling for human capital, studies show that gay men earn 10% - 32% less than heterosexual men in the United States, and that there is significant discrimination in hiring on the basis of sexual orientation in many labor markets.\n\nRacism is defined as the belief that physical characteristics determine cultural traits, and that racial characteristics make some groups superior. By separating people into hierarchies based upon their race, it has been argued that unequal treatment among the different groups of people is just and fair due to their genetic differences. Racism can occur amongst any group that can be identified based upon physical features or even characteristics of their culture. Though people may be lumped together and called a specific race, everyone does not fit neatly into such categories, making it hard to define and describe a race accurately.\n\nScientific racism began to flourish in the eighteenth century and was greatly influenced by Charles Darwin's evolutionary studies, as well as ideas taken from the writings of philosophers like Aristotle; for example, Aristotle believed in the concept of \"natural slaves\". This concept focuses on the necessity of hierarchies and how some people are bound to be on the bottom of the pyramid. Though racism has been a prominent topic in history, there is still debate over whether race actually exists, making the discussion of race a controversial topic. Even though the concept of race is still being debated, the effects of racism are apparent. Racism and other forms of prejudice can affect a person's behavior, thoughts, and feelings, and social psychologists strive to study these effects.\n\nWhile various religions teach their members to be tolerant of those who are different and to have compassion, throughout history there have been wars, pogroms and other forms of violence motivated by hatred of religious groups.\n\nIn the modern world, researchers in western, educated, industrialized, rich and democratic countries have done various studies exploring the relationship between religion and prejudice; thus far, they have received mixed results. A study done with US college students found that those who reported religion to be very influential in their lives seem to have a higher rate of prejudice than those who reported not being religious. Other studies found that religion has a positive effect on people as far as prejudice is concerned. This difference in results may be attributed to the differences in religious practices or religious interpretations amongst the individuals. Those who practice \"institutionalized religion\", which focuses more on social and political aspects of religious events, are more likely to have an increase in prejudice. Those who practice \"interiorized religion\", in which believers devote themselves to their beliefs, are most likely to have a decrease in prejudice.\n\nIndividuals or groups may be treated unfairly based solely on their use of language. This use of language may include the individual's native language or other characteristics of the person's speech, such as an accent, the size of vocabulary (whether the person uses complex and varied words), and syntax. It may also involve a person's ability or inability to use one language instead of another.\nIn the mid-1980s, linguist Tove Skutnabb-Kangas captured this idea of discrimination based on language as the concept of linguicism. Kangas defined linguicism as the ideologies and structures used to \"legitimate, effectuate, and reproduce unequal division of power and resources (both material and non-material) between groups which are defined on the basis of language.\"\n\nBroadly speaking, attribution of low social status to those who do not conform to neurotypical expectations of personality and behaviour. This can manifest through assumption of 'disability' status to those who are high functioning enough to exist outside of diagnostic criteria, yet do not desire to (or are unable to) conform their behaviour to conventional patterns. This is a controversial and somewhat contemporary concept; with various disciplinary approaches promoting conflicting messages what normality constitutes, the degree of acceptable individual difference within that category, and the precise criteria for what constitutes medical disorder. This has been most prominent in the case of high-functioning autism, where direct cognitive benefits increasingly appear to come at the expense of social intelligence.\n\nDiscrimination may also extend to other high functioning individuals carrying pathological phenotypes, such as those with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and bipolar spectrum disorders. In these cases, there are indications that perceived (or actual) socially disadvantageous cognitive traits are directly correlated with advantageous cognitive traits in other domains, notably creativity and divergent thinking, and yet these strengths might become systematically overlooked. The case for \"neurological discrimination\" as such lies in the expectation that one's professional capacity may be judged by the quality of ones social interaction, which can in such cases be an inaccurate and discriminatory metric for employment suitability.\n\nSince there are moves by some experts to have these higher-functioning extremes reclassified as extensions of human personality, any legitimisation of discrimination against these groups would fit the very definition of prejudice, as medical validation for such discrimination becomes redundant. Recent advancements in behavioural genetics and neuroscience have made this a very relevant issue of discussion, with existing frameworks requiring significant overhaul to accommodate the strength of findings over the last decade.\n\nHumans have an evolved propensity to think categorically about social groups, manifested in cognitive processes with broad implications for public and political endorsement of multicultural policy, according to psychologists Richard J. Crisp and Rose Meleady. They postulated a cognitive-evolutionary account of human adaptation to social diversity that explains general resistance to multiculturalism, and offer a reorienting call for scholars and policy-makers who seek intervention-based solutions to the problem of prejudice.\n\nThe contact hypothesis predicts that prejudice can only be reduced when in-group and out-group members are brought together. In particular, there are six conditions that must be met to reduce prejudice, as were cultivated in Elliot Aronson's \"jigsaw\" teaching technique. First, the in- and out-groups must have a degree of mutual interdependence. Second, both groups need to share a common goal. Third, the two groups must have equal status. Fourth, there must be frequent opportunities for informal and interpersonal contact between groups. Fifth, there should be multiple contacts between the in- and the out-groups. Finally, social norms of equality must exist and be present to foster prejudice reduction.\n\nAcademics Thomas Pettigrew and Linda Tropp conducted a meta-analysis of 515 studies involving a quarter of a million participants in 38 nations to examine how intergroup contact reduces prejudice. They found that three mediators are of particular importance: Intergroup contact reduces prejudice by (1) enhancing knowledge about the outgroup, (2) reducing anxiety about intergroup contact, and (3) increasing empathy and perspective-taking. While all three of these mediators had mediational effects, the mediational value of increased knowledge was less strong than anxiety reduction and empathy. In addition, some individuals confront discrimination when they see it happen, with research finding that individuals are more likely to confront when they perceive benefits to themselves, and are less likely to confront when concerned about others' reactions.\n\n"}
{"id": "15398359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15398359", "title": "Quality of working life", "text": "Quality of working life\n\n\"Quality of Working Life\" (QWL) is a term that had been used to describe the broader job-related experience an individual has.\n\nVarious authors and researchers have proposed models of quality of working life, (also referred to as quality of worklife) which include a wide range of factors. Selected models are reviewed below.\n\nHackman and Oldham (1976) drew attention to what they described as psychological growth needs as relevant to the consideration of Quality of working life. Several such needs were identified :\nThey suggested that such needs have to be addressed if employees are to experience high quality of working life.\n\nIn contrast to such theory based models, Taylor (1979) more pragmatically identified the essential components of quality of working life as basic extrinsic job factors of wages, hours and working conditions, and the intrinsic job notions of the nature of the work itself. He suggested that a number of other aspects could be added, including :\n\nTaylor suggested that relevant quality of working life concepts may vary according to organisation and employee group.\n\nWarr and colleagues (1979), in an investigation of quality of working life, considered a range of apparently relevant factors, including :\n\nThey discussed a range of correlations derived from their work, such as those between work involvement and job satisfaction, intrinsic job motivation and job satisfaction, and perceived intrinsic job characteristics and job satisfaction. In particular, Warr et al. found evidence for a moderate association between total job satisfaction and total life satisfaction and happiness, with a less strong, but significant association with self-rated anxiety.\n\nThus, whilst some authors have emphasised the workplace aspects in quality of working life, others have identified the relevance of personality factors, psychological well being, and broader concepts of happiness and life satisfaction.\n\nFactors more obviously and directly affecting work have, however, served as the main focus of attention, as researchers have tried to tease out the important influences on quality of working life in the workplace.\n\nMirvis and Lawler (1984) suggested that quality of working life was associated with satisfaction with wages, hours and working conditions, describing the “basic elements of a good quality of work life” as :\n\nBaba and Jamal (1991) listed what they described as typical indicators of quality of working life, including: \n\nBaba and Jamal also explored routinisation of job content, suggesting that this facet should be investigated as part of the concept of quality of working life.\n\nSome have argued that quality of working life might vary between groups of workers. For example, Ellis and Pompli (2002) identified a number of factors contributing to job dissatisfaction and quality of working life in nurses, including: \n\nSirgy et al. (2001) suggested that the key factors in quality of working life are:\n\nThey defined quality of working life as satisfaction of these key needs through resources, activities, and outcomes stemming from participation in the workplace. Needs as defined by the psychologist, Abraham Maslow, were seen as relevant in underpinning this model, covering health & safety, economic and family, social, esteem, actualisation, knowledge and aesthetics, although the relevance of non-work aspects is play down as attention is focussed on quality of work life rather than the broader concept of quality of life.\n\nThese attempts at defining quality of working life have included theoretical approaches, lists of identified factors, correlational analyses, with opinions varying as to whether such definitions and explanations can be both global, or need to be specific to each work setting.\n\nBearfield, (2003) used 16 questions to examine quality of working life, and distinguished between causes of dissatisfaction in professionals, intermediate clerical, sales and service workers, indicating that different concerns might have to be addressed for different groups.\n\nThe distinction made between job satisfaction and dissatisfaction in quality of working life reflects the influence of job satisfaction theories. Herzberg at al., (1959) used “Hygiene factors” and “Motivator factors” to distinguish between the separate causes of job satisfaction and job dissatisfaction. It has been suggested that Motivator factors are intrinsic to the job, that is; job content, the work itself, responsibility and advancement. The Hygiene factors or dissatisfaction-avoidance factors include aspects of the job environment such as interpersonal relationships, salary, working conditions and security. Of these latter, the most common cause of job dissatisfaction can be company policy and administration, whilst achievement can be the greatest source of extreme satisfaction.\n\nNanjundeswaraswamy and Swamy (2013) used 9 components to measure quality of worklife of employees in private technical institutions: \n\nMale employees are more satisfied than female employees the chi square test confirms that all the demographic factors like gender, designation, salary, department, experience are independent of quality of worklife of employees in private technical institution. Study also reveals that there is a significant association between QWL of Teaching and Non teaching staffs. From the correlation analysis it is find that Adequacy of Resources are more correlated and Training & Development are less correlated with teaching staffs perception towards quality of worklife and in case of non teaching staffs Compensation & Rewards are more correlated and Work Environment are less correlated with QWL.\n\nAn individual’s experience of satisfaction or dissatisfaction can be substantially rooted in their perception, rather than simply reflecting their “real world”. Further, an individual’s perception can be affected by relative comparison – am I paid as much as that person - and comparisons of internalised ideals, aspirations, and expectations, for example, with the individual’s current state (Lawler and Porter, 1966).\n\nIn summary, where it has been considered, authors differ in their views on the core constituents of Quality of Working Life (e.g. Sirgy, Efraty, Siegel & Lee, 2001 and Warr, Cook & Wall, 1979).\n\nIt has generally been agreed however that Quality of Working Life is conceptually similar to well-being of employees but differs from job satisfaction which solely represents the workplace domain (Lawler, 1982).\n\nQuality of Working Life is not a unitary concept, but has been seen as incorporating a hierarchy of perspectives that not only include work-based factors such as job satisfaction, satisfaction with pay and relationships with work colleagues, but also factors that broadly reflect life satisfaction and general feelings of well-being (Danna & Griffin, 1999). More recently, work-related stress and the relationship between work and non-work life domains (Loscocco & Roschelle, 1991) have also been identified as factors that should conceptually be included in Quality of Working Life.\n\nThere are few recognised measures of quality of working life, and of those that exist, few have evidence of validity and reliability, although the Brief Index of Affective Job Satisfaction has been systematically developed to be reliable and is rigorously psychometrically validated. \n\nThe Brief Index of Affective Job Satisfaction (BIAFJS) is a 4-item, purely affective as opposed to cognitive, measure of overall affective job satisfaction that reflects quality of working life. The BIAJS differs from other job satisfaction measures in being comprehensively validated not just for internal consistency reliability, temporal stability, convergent and criterion-related validities, but also for cross-population invariance by nationality, job level, and job type. Reported internal consistency reliabilities range between .81 and .87.\n\nStatistical analysis of the Work-Related Quality of Life scale (WRQoL), provides support for the psychometric structure of this instrument. The WRQoWL measure uses six core factors to explain most of the variation in an individuals quality of working life: Job and Career Satisfaction; Working Conditions; General Well-Being; Home-Work Interface; Stress at Work and Control at Work.\n\nThe Job & Career Satisfaction (JCS) scale of the Work-Related Quality of Life scale (WRQoL) is said to reflect an employee’s feelings about, or evaluation of, their satisfaction or contentment with their job and career and the training they receive to do it. Within the WRQoL measure, JCS is reflected by questions asking how satisfied people feel about their work. It has been proposed that this Positive Job Satisfaction factor is influenced by various issues including clarity of goals and role ambiguity, appraisal, recognition and reward, personal development career benefits and enhancement and training needs.\n\nThe General well-being (GWB) scale of the Work-Related Quality of Life scale (WRQoL), aims to assess the extent to which an individual feels good or content in themselves, in a way which may be independent of their work situation. It is suggested that general well-being both influences, and is influenced by work. Mental health problems, predominantly depression and anxiety disorders, are common, and may have a major impact on the general well-being of the population. The WRQoL GWB factor assesses issues of mood, depression and anxiety, life satisfaction, general quality of life, optimism and happiness.\n\nThe WRQoL Stress at Work sub-scale (SAW) reflects the extent to which an individual perceives they have excessive pressures, and feel stressed at work. The WRQoL SAW factor is assessed through items dealing with demand and perception of stress and actual demand overload. Whilst it is possible to be pressured at work and not be stressed at work, in general, high stress is associated with high pressure.\n\nThe Control at Work (CAW) subscale of the WRQoL scale addresses how much employees feel they can control their work through the freedom to express their opinions and being involved in decisions at work. Perceived control at work as measured by the Work-Related Quality of Life scale (WRQoL) is recognized as a central concept in the understanding of relationships between stressful experiences, behaviour and health. Control at work, within the theoretical model underpinning the WRQoL, is influenced by issues of communication at work, decision making and decision control.\n\nThe WRQoL Home-Work Interface scale (HWI) measures the extent to which an employer is perceived to support the family and home life of employees. This factor explores the interrelationship between home and work life domains. Issues that appear to influence employee HWI include adequate facilities at work, flexible working hours and the understanding of managers.\n\nThe Working Conditions scale of the WRQoL assesses the extent to which the employee is satisfied with the fundamental resources, working conditions and security necessary to do their job effectively. Physical working conditions influence employee health and safety and thus employee Quality of working life. This scale also taps into satisfaction with the resources provided to help people do their jobs.\n\nRegular assessment of Quality of Working Life can potentially provide organisations with important information about the welfare of their employees, such as job satisfaction, general well-being, work-related stress and the home-work interface. Studies in the UK University sector have shown a valid measure of Quality of Working Life exists and can be used as a basis for effective interventions.\n\nWorrall and Cooper (2006) reported that a low level of well-being at work is estimated to cost about 5-10% of Gross National Product per annum, yet Quality of Working Life as a theoretical construct remains relatively unexplored and unexplained within the organisational psychology research literature.\n\nA large chunk of most peoples’ lives will be spent at work. Most people recognise the importance of sleeping well, and actively try to enjoy the leisure time that they can snatch. But all too often, people tend to see work as something they just have to put up with, or even something they don’t even expect to enjoy.\n\nSome of the factors used to measure quality of working life pick up on things that don’t actually make people feel good, but which seem to make people feel bad about work if those things are absent. For example, noise – if the place where someone works is too noisy, they might get frequent headaches, or find they cannot concentrate, and so feel dissatisfied. But when it is quiet enough they don’t feel pleased or happy - they just don’t feel bad. This can apply to a range of factors that affect someone's working conditions.\n\nOther things seem to be more likely to make people feel good about work and themselves once the basics are OK at work. Challenging work (not too little, not too much) can make them feel good. Similarly, opportunities for career progression and using their abilities can contribute to someone's quality of working life.\n\nA publication of the National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE) emphasises the core role of assessment and understanding of the way working environments pose risks for psychological wellbeing through lack of control and excessive demand. The emphasis placed by NICE on assessment and monitoring wellbeing springs from the fact that these processes are the key first step in identifying areas for improving quality of working life and addressing risks at work.\n\nQuality of work life of the employees working in different organizations can be enhanced by adopting the constructs of quality of work life. Some of the constructs or dimensions of quality of work life are skill variety, task identity, employee participation, training and development, etc.\n"}
{"id": "807127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=807127", "title": "Rabbit punch", "text": "Rabbit punch\n\nA rabbit punch is a blow to the back of the head or to the base of the skull. It is considered especially dangerous because it can damage the cervical vertebrae and subsequently the spinal cord, which may lead to serious and irreparable spinal cord injury. A rabbit punch can also detach the victim's brain from the brain stem, which can kill instantly.\n\nThe punch's name is derived from the use of the technique by hunters to kill rabbits with a quick, sharp strike to the back of the head.\n\nThe rabbit punch is illegal in boxing, MMA, and other combat sports that involve striking. The only exceptions are no-holds-barred events such as the International Vale Tudo Championship (prior to rule changes in mid-2012).\n\nOn June 29, 2014, soccer referee John Bieniewicz was punched in the neck by Baseel Abdul Amir Saad, an upset player in an amateur match he was officiating in Livonia, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Bieniewicz died two days later of his injuries, and Saad was charged with second-degree murder. Bieniewicz’s autopsy showed that the force of the impact on the left side of his neck just below the base of his skull had resulted in a rare injury with twisted and torn arteries around the base of his skull, knocking him out before he hit the ground. \n"}
{"id": "21509462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21509462", "title": "Radical compassion", "text": "Radical compassion\n\nRadical compassion is a term coined by the philosopher Khen Lampert, in 2003. His theory of radical compassion appeared in \"Traditions of Compassion: from Religious Duty to Social-Activism\" (2006). Lampert identifies compassion as a special case of empathy, directed towards the \"other's\" distress. Radical compassion is a specific type of general compassion, which includes the inner imperative to change reality in order to alleviate the pain of others. This state of mind, according to Lampert's theory, is universal, and stands at the root of the historical cry for social change.\n\n\"I have noted that compassion, especially in its radical form, manifests itself as an impulse. This manifestation stands in stark opposition to the underlying premises of the Darwinist theories, which regard the survival instinct as determining human behavior, as well to the Freudian logic of the Pleasure Principle, which refutes any supposedly natural tendency on the part of human beings to act against their own interests and proposes viewing such an inclination as the product of cultural conditioning...\"\n"}
{"id": "51051832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51051832", "title": "RepRap Fisher", "text": "RepRap Fisher\n\nThe RepRap Fisher is an open-source fused deposition modeling 3D printer and is part of the RepRap project. The RepRap Fisher is named after the English statistician and biologist Ronald Fisher, it was designed by RepRapPro.\n\nThe RepRap Fisher has a 150mm diameter by 180mm height build volume, uses a bowden extruder and has a print resolution of 12.5um in all directions, it also has a micro SD card and USB and Ethernet connections allowing it to be connected to a network. The printer was praised for its ease of construction and low price and is only available in kit form.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7801429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7801429", "title": "Reproductive suppression", "text": "Reproductive suppression\n\nReproductive suppression involves the prevention or inhibition of reproduction in otherwise healthy adult individuals. It includes delayed sexual maturation (puberty) or inhibition of sexual receptivity, facultatively increased interbirth interval through delayed or inhibited ovulation or spontaneous or induced abortion, abandonment of immature and dependent offspring, mate guarding, selective destruction and worker policing of eggs in some eusocial insects or cooperatively breeding birds, and infanticide (see also infanticide (zoology)), and infanticide in carnivores) of the offspring of subordinate females either by directly killing by dominant females or males in mammals or indirectly through the withholding of assistance with infant care in marmosets and some carnivores.\nThe \"Reproductive Suppression Model\" argues that \"females can optimize their lifetime reproductive success by suppressing reproduction when future [physical or social] conditions for the survival of offspring are likely to be greatly improved over present ones\". When intragroup competition (competition between individuals belonging to the same group) is high it may be beneficial to suppress the reproduction of others, and for subordinate females to suppress their own reproduction until a later time when social competition is reduced. This leads to reproductive skew within a social group, with some individuals having more offspring than others. The cost of reproductive suppression to the individual is lowest at the earliest stages of a reproductive event and reproductive suppression is often easiest to induce at the pre-ovulatory or earliest stages of pregnancy in mammals, and greatest after a birth. Therefore, neuroendocrine cues for assessing reproductive success should evolve to be reliable at early stages in the ovulatory cycle.\nReproductive suppression occurs in its most extreme form in eusocial insects such as termites, hornets and bees and the mammalian naked mole rat which depend on a complex division of labor within the group for survival and in which specific genes, epigenetics and other factors are known to determine whether individuals will permanently be unable to breed or able to reach reproductive maturity under particular social conditions, and cooperatively breeding fish, birds and mammals in which a breeding pair depends on helpers whose reproduction is suppressed for the survival of their own offspring. In eusocial and cooperatively breeding animals most non-reproducing helpers engage in kin selection, enhancing their own inclusive fitness by ensuring the survival of offspring they are closely related to. Wolf packs suppress subordinate breeding.\n\nFemale mammals experience delays in the onset of puberty or increase their interbirth intervals in response to environmental conditions that are associated with low abundance and poor quality of foods. Nutritional stress is apparently linked to the female endocrine system and ovulatory pheromonal cycle. For example, Orangutans (\"Pongo pygmaeus\") experience high ketone (due to fat burning) and low estrogen levels during times of low food availability and poor food quality, but low ketone and high estrogen levels that stimulates onset of the ovulation during the fruit masting seasons that occurs about every four years on Sumatra.[18] Since adult female orangutans are solitary, interference by other females can be ruled out as influencing their temporary reproductive suppression and facultatively long interbirth intervals. Polygynandrous yellow baboons (\"Papio cynocephalus\") in Kenya were far less likely to ovulate or conceive during periods of drought or extreme heat, especially if they live in large groups, resulting in longer interbirth intervals during periods of nutritional and thermal stress.\n\nHigh population density is one of the environmental factors that can lead to reproductive suppression. When population density is high, subordinate individuals may experience reproductive suppression that they would not have experiences otherwise. For example, when high numbers of yellow baboon (Papio cynocephalus) females are simultaneously in estrous at Mikumi National Park, Tanzania dominant females form coalitions that attack subordinate females, leading to a disruption in their reproductive cycle and failure to conceive. This places constraints on the number of offspring born in a single generation. Since infant mortality in Amboseli yellow baboons depends in part on the number and ages of other infants born into the group, pre-ovulatory females that are most susceptible to stress-induced delay or inhibition of ovulation are the most frequent targets of female coalition attacks. Female attackers are often in advanced stages of pregnancy, and have the most to lose if the number of infants in the group reaches an unsustainable level. A similar study of Chacma baboons (\"Papio ursinus\") noted high levels of female-female aggression around the mating season when the number of ovulating females was high (indicated by sexual swellings) and that aggression directed toward suppressing the mating opportunities of ovulating females.\nAmong elephant seals (Mirounga) high neonatal mortality occurs when the number of pups born in a season is high, with deaths resulting from injury and starvation. To counteract loss of their pups elephant seals conceive next year's offspring immediately after giving birth to this year's young, but delay implantation for 4 months. Female striped mice (Rhabdomys pumilio) in monogamous social groups do not experience reproductive suppression, but those living in communally breeding groups with high population density and large numbers of old breeding females do.\n\nChronic physiological stress resulting from aggression by dominant toward subordinate individuals is thought to be a major cause of delayed maturation and suppressed ovulation in subordinate individuals of a wide range of species. In response to stress the HPA axis (hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis) is activated, producing high concentrations of circulating adrenal glucocorticoids (GC) which, when chronically present, negatively influence an animal's health and can lead to reproductive suppression in male marmots (\"Marmota marmota\"), and blocks of ovulatory cycles of female talapoin monkeys (\"Miopithecus talapoin\"), meerkats (\"Suricata suricatta\") and marmots.\n\nIn cooperatively breeding meerkats (Suricata suricatta) the dominant breeding female is the oldest and heaviest female who is highly aggressive toward subordinate females during the breeding season and temporarily evicts subordinate females from the group. Evicted subordinates suffer repeated attacks during the later stages of the breeding female's pregnancy and showed GC levels two times higher than normal. Approximately 3 days after their birth, subordinate females return to the group to help rear the breeding female's pups, at which time the dominant female is no longer aggressive toward them. By inducing the stress response in subordinates the breeding female disrupts the ovulatory cycle and prevents mating of the subordinate females, or causes the pregnancies of subordinates to fail if they do occur. If her social group is small the breeding female evicts all subordinate females, but if it is large she targets older females, pregnant females and non-kin.\n\nHowever, reproductive suppression through stress does not apply to many species including orangutans for which subordinate males have lower GC levels than dominant ones, marmosets for which nonbreeding subordinate females were not found to have higher GC levels than dominant breeding females, social carnivores and other animals. Some argue that when a variety of variables are controlled for, reanalysis of the GC data for meerkats does not support a correlation between high GC levels and a subordinate position in the social hierarchy. Dominant breeding males and females are often found to have higher GC levels among the dwarf mongoose (\"Helogale parvula\"), African wild dogs (\"Lycaon pictus\") and gray wolves (Canis lupus) in which older and heavier individuals make up the breeding individuals in the group with younger individuals suppressing their reproduction and instead helping to raise the pups of the older breeding individuals.\n\nPheromonal suppression of subordinate male and female reproduction is implicated as the mechanism by which dominant breeding pairs suppress the reproduction of non-breeders in communally and cooperatively breeding species, especially in the absence of stress as an explanation. Wolves (\"Canis lupus\"), coyotes (\"Canis latrons\") and hunting dogs \"(Lycaon pictus\") live in packs with a dominant breeding pair that does most of the territorial urine scent marking in the group. During the breeding season the dominant male urinates over the dominant female's urine, possibly to hide the female's reproductive status from other males. Pheromones in urine are implicated as a possible mechanism to shut down the subordinate's reproductive cycle. Only the dominant pair mate and have young, producing one litter per year. Subordinate females either do not exhibit estrous hormonal changes or they occur irregularly. Occasionally a subordinate animal leaves the pack and forms a new mating pair when it then exhibits of the territorial urine marking and mating behavior that was suppressed when living in the presence of the dominant breeding pair.\n\nYellow, banded and dwarf mongooses live in families similar to wolf packs with scent marking done almost exclusively by the dominant pair. Dwarf mongooses show synchronous estrous but only the dominant female regularly gives birth. Subordinate females do not conceive or abort early, but do lactate after the dominant female gives birth and participate in communal nursing. When the subordinate females leave the parental pack they will become fully reproductively active in new groups they help establish. In captivity more than one dwarf mongoose in a group can give birth but the young of subordinates do not survive. However, if the size of their cage is increased and density is lower, reproductive activity of subordinates resumes. As in wolves, pheromonal control over the reproductive cycle of the mongoose is implicated as the mechanism for reproductive suppression.\nThe house mouse (\"Mus musculus\") is territorial with a single dominant male marking its territorial boundary with urine while subordinate males do not urine mark. A female's rate of urine marking is elevated in response to a dominant male's urine marking, and his urine contains pheromones that accelerate her ovulation. The presence of a dominant adult male and his urine are crucial for young females to initiate puberty. Females isolated from males often do not experience puberty or have unstable ovulatory cycles. Contact with the urine of a dominant female signals a young prepubescent female to delay the onset of puberty. When housed with only an adult male, female mice reach puberty within 25 days, but puberty will not occur until 40–50 days if they are housed with adult females. Being grouped with other females suppresses the young female's serum LH and prolactin. Exposure to the male elevates their LH levels followed by increased serum estradiol. Female mice have a short ovulatory cycle when housed with males and a long cycle when housed with only other females.\n\nQueen pheromones are among the most important chemical messages regulating insect societies but are yet to be isolated. in natural colonies of the Saxon wasp, \"Dolichovespula saxonica\", queens emit reliable chemical cues of their true fertility, but as the queen's signals decrease incidences of worker reproduction increases. In colonies of \"Bombus terrestris\", the queen can control oogenesis and worker egg laying by regulating concentrations of juvenile hormone (JH) in workers. This is likely achieved through queen pheromones.\n\nGame theory is employed to suggest that subordinates suppress their own reproduction to avoid the social cost imposed on them if they reproduce, including expulsion from the group and infanticide against their progeny by dominant breeding individuals. Forced dispersal from the group may be extremely dangerous, involving high levels of predation and difficulty finding food and sleeping sites. In the absence of stress or pheromones as a mechanism, a \"self-inhibition\"model was proposed that suggests subordinates can choose to inhibit their own reproduction in cooperatively breeding groups in order to remain flexible and share in the group's productivity. When group members are closely related, independent breeding opportunities are poor, and detection of mating and pregnancy is high, subordinates choose to suppress their own reproduction.\nThe self-inhibition model has been applied to female common marmosets (Callithrix jacchus). When they are introduced into a new group, female marmosets are immediately subordinate, experience a drop in chrorionic gonadotrophin (CG) and within the first four days and stops ovulating. Subordinate female ovaries are smaller than dominants and secrete little estrogen. Older female marmosets are less subject to ovulatory self-restraint and the scent of an unfamiliar dominant female does not affect their ovulation. However, continued exposure to the dominant female may represent a social, rather than biological, cue that causes the subordinates to shut down their ovulation.\n\nLimiting access to reproductive partners through mate guarding is a form of reproductive suppression. In the banded mongoose (Mungus mungo) the oldest males have the most offspring. Yet mating in this species is highly promiscuous. The older males increase their reproductive success by mate guarding the oldest most fertile females since they cannot guard all the females in the group. Therefore, successfully breeding older males are highly selective in their mate guarding and exert mate selection. Mate guarding is also a mechanism of reproductive suppression of subordinates in mandrills (Mandrillus sphinx) in which males over the age of 8 mate-guard, with alpha males performing 94% of the mate-guarding and being responsible for siring 69% of the offspring.\n\nAlso known as eusocialityOvary activation in honeybee workers is inhibited by pheromones from the queen. In the Cape honeybee social parasites that are of the worker caste enter the colony and kill the resident queen, activate their own ovaries and parthenogenetically produce diploid female offspring (thelytoky) – behaviors that are all linked to a single locus on chromosome 13. The parasites produced queen-like pheromones falsely signally the presence of a queen suppressing the reproduction of worker's native to the colony and policing or destroying these eggs. Alternative slicing of a gene homologous to the gemini transcription factor of Drosophila controls worker sterility. Knocking out an exon resulted in rapid worker ovary activation. A 9 nucleotide deletion from the normal altruistic worker genome may turn a honeybee into a parasite.\nAs for many eusocial insects, termite workers are totipotent and rarely produce offspring although they are capable of reproduction when the breeding pair dies. Researchers hypothesized that the gene Neofem2, which is involved in cockroach communication, plays a critical role in queen-worker communication. They experimentally took the king or queen out of the colony. Some workers displayed pre-mating head butting behavior and can go on to become reproductive while others did not. However, when the Neofem2 gene was suppressed butting behavior did not occur, indicating that the gene is essential in allowing the queen to suppress worker reproduction. Neofem2 may play a role in cockroach egg pheromones.\nNaked mole rats resemble eusocial insects in becoming reversible nonbreeders at birth. Underground dwelling mole rats having an elaborate division of labor, high densities as colonies mature, high levels of inbreeding and extreme permanent reproductive despotism. Helping to rear the dominant females young may be the only way they can ensure an individual's survival.\n\nDestroying eggs such that only one female's eggs survive is documented in cooperatively breeding birds such as acorn woodpeckers (\"Melanerpes formicivorus\"). About 25% of acorn woodpecker groups contain two or more joint-nesting females that cooperate to raise young, but cooperative female destroy each other's eggs prior to laying their own. These eggs are eaten by other members of the group, including the mother.\nIn Cape honeybees (\"Apis mellifera capensis\") the multiple mating of the queen and existence of half-siblings creates sub-families within the colony. Sometimes the queen fails to control worker reproduction. In response workers remove eggs laid by other workers leading to less than 1% of offspring being worker laid. Worker Policing of worker eggs occurs in the European hornet (Vespa crabo) honeybees and wasps.\n\nSocial stress and resource limitation can lead to high rates of spontaneous abortion as a mechanism of reproductive suppression. Meerkats subordinate females that have conceived prior to being evicted from the group by the breeding female during the breeding season fail to carry their pregnancies as a result of increased stress (higher GC levels) and reduced access to food and other resources. Evicted females regularly copulate with males from neighboring groups Subordinate females have low conception rates and increased abortion rates in response to low food availability and high predation risk. Dwarf mongooses show synchronous estrous but only the dominant female regularly bears young. If subordinate females do manage to conceive they abort the pregnancy.\n\nInfanticide is a mechanism of reproductive success that occurs in many species. Alpha female dwarf mongooses and African wild dogs kill offpring other than their own, but alpha males do not use infanticide to enforce reproductive suppression. This may occur because the breeding alpha may have sired a rare subordinate's offspring. Subordinate females time their rare pregnancies such that they give birth several days after the alpha female to reduce the risk of infanticide.\nPregnant suborordinate meerkats are known to kill the pups of the dominant breeding female. No dominant female pups have ever been observed killed after their 4th day of life. Evicted subordinate females are kept out for 3 days after the breeding female gave birth.\nEight infanticides involving the killing of a subordinate female's offspring by the breeding female have been observed in wild common marmosets, as well as two instances of infanticide in which the subordinate female bred and then killed the breeding female's babies. Infanticidal marmoset females are often in the last trimester of pregnancy, but postpartum females don't commit infanticide.\n\nBrood parasitism is the process by which a female lays her eggs in a conspecific female's nest. Parasitic female moorhens (Gallinula chloropus) are known to lay one to six eggs in their neighbor's nests. In most cases the male paired with the conspecific female has been involved in extra-pair copulations with the parasitic mother. This causes maternity uncertainty for the female as not all species can readily identify their own eggs from another's, which imposes fitness costs of raising an offspring that is not her own. In some cases females will lay eggs in another's nest that were conceived by another male entirely. This process is known as quasi-parasitism and induces fitness costs on both the male and female of the parasitized nest who cannot be certain of paternity or maternity. This is a problem for white-fronted bee-eaters (Merops bullockoides), where it has been found through analysis of enzyme polymorphisms that approximately 9–12% of offspring are unrelated to one parent or none. The reproductive strategy of brood-parasitism is not only an intraspecies problem, as parasitic mothers will use the nests of one to 240 different host species. The fitness costs that these interactions impose strains on host parents to displace time, effort, and resources into offspring that are not their own, and are believed to reduce the hosts reproductive success by up to 50%. But time lost is not the greatest cost to some host species. Hosts that raise Cuculus and Chrysococcyx cuckoos lose all their offspring as the cuckoos kill them with mandibular hooks. While some other species do not directly kill a hosts' young, they often kill them indirectly through competition for food leading to eventual starvation. \nWhy then do host species tolerate parasitic offspring? Several hypotheses have been tested to answer this question. One theory known as the quasi-parasitism hypothesis suggested that parasitic females were exchanging extra-pair copulations with host males for access to lay their eggs in the nest. This theory was denounced by DNA fingerprinting revealing that many offspring were sired by only the parasitic mother's mate and not the mate of the host female. Another theory was that this interaction fell under kin selection, and that perhaps the parasites and hosts were closely related and there was an inclusive fitness benefit to hosts. While this theory has not been completely denounced in some species like moorhens, it does not fully explain why then interspecific parasitism perseveres. The most widely accepted hypothesis is that hosts are deceived and cannot differentiate their own eggs or offspring. The deception model explains a coevolutionary arms race between hosts and parasites that has led to further adaptations in deception and host parasitism defense strategies. Parasitic cuckoos have developed a system for potentially successful parasitism by quickly laying a small mimetic egg during the hosts' laying period. Some parasitic mothers go as far to eject the eggs of hosts before laying their own eggs in the nest, which has been suggested to increase the efficiency of which their eggs are incubated and raised, all the while providing them with a meal in the process. Brood parasitism has been shown to be a coevolutionary arms race between hosts and parasites with new adaptations of egg recognition being selected for in hosts, and new strategies of trickery and deception being selected for in parasites to exploit hosts.\n"}
{"id": "33834869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33834869", "title": "Sam Bagnall", "text": "Sam Bagnall\n\nSamuel Bagnall (6 February 1892 – 1946) was an English footballer who played for Chesterfield Town and Sheffield United. Playing outside right, he was known for his pace, being described as a \"better sprinter than a footballer.\"\n\nBorn in Neepsend, Sheffield, Bagnall made his breakthrough at nearby Chesterfield Town but was quickly transferred to his home-town club Sheffield United for a fee of £152 in April 1913 (although the Blades later informed the Football League that the fee had been £350.) He also ran sprint events, winning the sprint at the 1913 Players' Union Sports competition.\n\nDespite commanding a large fee for the time he failed to make an impact on the first team at Bramall Lane, making only seven appearances in just over a season before he was released at the outset of World War I.\n\nBagnall saw active service during the war, being wounded in his left shoulder and arm while serving in France, and was subsequently discharged in 1916. It was initially feared he would be permanently disabled, but he recovered enough to take up a job at Welbeck Colliery and played for their football team. In 1921, he took part in a charity footrace at Hyde Park, organised by the Park Ex-Serviceman to raise funds for a new sports pavilion.\n"}
{"id": "5065379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5065379", "title": "Sarkoy", "text": "Sarkoy\n\nThe Sarkoy are the people of the planet Sarkovy, featured in \"Star King\" and \"The Palace of Love\", two of the Demon Princes novels of Jack Vance. Sarkoy mainly inhabit the steppes of their somewhat bleak and unforgiving planet.\n\nSarkoy have a highly formalised and structured society and place great value upon etiquette. A breach of certain manners may earn a death sentence; \"dishonouring a fetish\" is one such crime and \"throwing sour milk upon his grandmother\" is another (both offences quoted in The Palace of Love). The cruelty of the Sarkoy can be judged by the popularity of the sport of \"harbite\", in which the \"harikap\", a semi-intelligent animal, is tormented to death in a number of imaginative ways including being set on fire. (When Kirth Gersen ironically enquires of Sivij Suthiro what the Sarkoy will do for entertainment when they have exterminated the \"harikap\", Suthiro responds blandly that they always have each other.)\n\nTheir most notable characteristic is that practically every inhabitant of the planet is skilled to a greater or lesser degree in the art of assassination by poison. An adept of this art is known as a venefice and it is rumoured that a Master Venefice can kill his quarry merely by walking past him. This may be an exaggeration, but perhaps not a flagrant one. Many venefices pride themselves on their ability to develop poisons out of substances previously considered harmless, and an expert can transmit toxins or plague germs on contact, even a contact so slight as to go unnoticed. A skilled venefice typically keeps his fingernails hardened and sharpened such that they can cut paper at a touch (in order to deliver subcutaneous poison); a still more skilled practitioner can poison one merely by passing him paper to show off this 'paper trick'.\n\nIn \"The Palace of Love\" Master Edelrod explains to Kirth Gersen that to avoid this fate a venefice will try to acquire immunity to the poisons that may be used against him and also exercises great caution in all his personal dealings (going so far as pre-emptively poisoning any rivals). In this way he will \"live to become an old man\" (a Sarkoy expression).\n\nA trade Guild exists to regulate the trafficking of poisons and act as a professional body for the venefices. Breaking its rules is a serious matter and the offender may be sentenced to \"cooperate\" with the Guild, whereby other Guild members test new poisons upon the unfortunate (see \"The Palace of Love\" for an example: the offender had sold fixed-rate poison at a discount).\n\nReferred to several times in the series, the poisonous or infective agent known as \"cluthe\" is one of the most famous and dreaded substances at the venefice's disposal. Tristano the Earthman, when beaten by Gersen in a fight, is willing to stand physical torture and permanent maiming and disfigurement rather than spill secrets and be put to death by cluthe (as Suthiro would be ordered to kill him). Other opponents whom Gersen encounters readily agree to inform on their employer merely on the understanding that Gersen will kill them by shooting rather than by cluthe.\n\nIt is not quite consistent in either its application or its effects on the two occasions that Gersen himself uses it; in \"Star King\", Gersen induces Suthiro to accept a piece of paper from him and uses the opportunity to infect him with cluthe (whether by an imperceptible touch of his own or by contaminating the paper is not clear), whereas in \"The Face\", he kills Lens Larque by slapping him with a cluthe-laced glove. Larque dies within minutes, racked by hideous internal and external convulsions, whereas Suthiro exhibits no effects whatever until meeting Gersen a day later, though his exceedingly rapid decline thereafter suggests that he had failed to notice that he was ill, possibly on account of his arrogant assumption that no-one could have poisoned him.\n\nWhile visiting Sarkovy in \"The Palace of Love\", Gersen is advised to restock his supplies of cluthe, as when not fresh it is merely debilitating or even inconveniencing and not fatal.\n\nOther poisons mentioned include alpha, beta, black-tox, furux, mervan, tox meratis, twitus, ulgar, and vole.\n\nSarkoy generally worship Godogma, who carries a flower and a flail and walks on wheels. Evidently he is viewed as one who gathers the souls of the dead, and the Sarkoy view death with apparent fatalism; however, when Kirth Gersen remarks to Suthiro that \"One never likes to hasten Godogma\", Suthiro agrees and remarks that on Sarkoy there are a thousand popular aphorisms to this effect.\n\nDuring a visit to the planet, Gersen displays a familiarity with and tolerant acceptance of Sarkovy's unlovely customs. He also has friends in high places, as the mere mention of a venefice named Coudirou is enough to open doors for him. Most probably this is because Coudirou is enough of a master of his craft to kill anyone who crosses him, and the other Sarkoy naturally assume that Gersen would never dare to drop his name casually unless he really did know him well. The previous mention of Coudirou in \"Star King\" implied that Gersen was at some point a student of his, and Gersen himself is no slouch as a poisoner.\n\n\"Star King\"\n\n\"The Palace of Love\"\n"}
{"id": "22610793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22610793", "title": "Semelparity and iteroparity", "text": "Semelparity and iteroparity\n\nSemelparity and iteroparity are two classes of possible reproductive strategies available to living organisms. A species is considered semelparous if it is characterized by a single reproductive episode before death, and iteroparous if it is characterized by multiple reproductive cycles over the course of its lifetime. Some botanists use the parallel terms monocarpy and polycarpy. (See also plietesials.)\n\nIn truly semelparous species, death after reproduction is part of an overall strategy that includes putting all available resources into maximizing reproduction, at the expense of future life (see \"Trade-offs\", below). In any iteroparous population there will be some individuals who die between their first and second reproductive episodes, but unless this is part of a syndrome of programmed death after reproduction, this would not be called semelparity.\n\nThis distinction is also related to the difference between annual and perennial plants. An annual is a plant that completes its life cycle in a single season, and is usually semelparous. Perennials live for more than one season and are usually (but not always) iteroparous.\n\nSemelparity and iteroparity are not, strictly speaking, alternative strategies, but extremes along a continuum of possible modes of reproduction. Many organisms considered to be semelparous can, under certain conditions, separate their single bout of reproduction into two or more episodes.\n\nThe word semelparity was coined by evolutionary biologist Lamont Cole, and comes from the Latin \"semel\" 'once, a single time' and \"pario\" 'to beget'. This differs from iteroparity in that iteroparous species are able to have multiple reproductive cycles and therefore can mate more than once in their lifetime. Semelparity is also known as \"big bang\" reproduction, since the single reproductive event of semelparous organisms is usually large as well as fatal. A classic example of a semelparous organism is Pacific salmon (\"Oncorhynchus\" spp.), which lives for many years in the ocean before swimming to the freshwater stream of its birth, spawning, and dying. Other semelparous animals include many insects, including some species of butterflies, cicadas, and mayflies, many arachnids, and some molluscs such as some species of squid and octopus.\n\nSemelparity also occurs in smelt and capelin, but is very rare in vertebrates other than bony fish. In amphibians, it is known only among some \"Hyla\" frogs including the gladiator frog; in reptiles only a few lizards such as Labord's chameleon of southwestern Madagascar and \"Sceloporus bicanthalis\" of the high mountains of Mexico; and among mammals only in a few didelphid and dasyurid marsupials. Annual plants, including all grain crops and most domestic vegetables, are semelparous. Long-lived semelparous plants include century plant (agave), \"Lobelia telekii\", and some species of bamboo.\n\nThis form of lifestyle is consistent with r-selected strategies as many offspring are produced and there is low parental input, as one or both parents die after mating. All of the male’s energy is diverting into mating and the immune system is repressed. High levels of corticosteroids are sustained over long periods of time. This triggers immune and inflammatory system failure and gastrointestinal hemorrhage, which eventually leads to death.\n\nThe term iteroparity comes from the Latin \"itero\", to repeat, and \"pario\", to beget. An example of an iteroparous organism is a human—though people may choose to have only one child (or even none), humans are biologically capable of having offspring many times over the course of their lives.\n\nIteroparous vertebrates include all birds, most reptiles, virtually all mammals, and most fish. Among invertebrates, most mollusca and many insects (for example, mosquitoes and cockroaches) are iteroparous. Most perennial plants are iteroparous.\n\nIt is a biological precept that within its lifetime an organism has a limited amount of energy/resources available to it, and must always partition it among various functions such as collecting food and finding a mate. Of relevance here is the trade-off between fecundity, growth, and survivorship in its life history strategy. These trade-offs come into play in the evolution of iteroparity and semelparity. It has been repeatedly demonstrated that semelparous species produce more offspring in their single fatal reproductive episode than do closely related iteroparous species in any one of theirs. However, the opportunity to reproduce more than once in a lifetime, and possibly with greater care for the development of offspring produced, can offset this strictly numerical benefit.\n\nOne class of models that tries to explain the differential evolution of semelparity and iteroparity examines the shape of the trade-off between offspring produced and offspring forgone. In economic terms, offspring produced is equivalent to a benefit function, while offspring forgone is comparable to a cost function. The reproductive effort of an organism—the proportion of energy that it puts into reproducing, as opposed to growth or survivorship—occurs at the point where the distance between offspring produced and offspring forgone is the greatest. The accompanying graph shows the offspring-produced and offspring-forgone curves for an iteroparous organism: \nIn the first graph, the marginal cost of offspring produced is decreasing (each additional offspring is less \"expensive\" than the average of all previous offspring) and the marginal cost of offspring forgone is increasing. In this situation, the organism only devotes a portion of its resources to reproduction, and uses the rest of its resources on growth and survivorship so that it can reproduce again in the future. However, it is also possible (second graph) for the marginal cost of offspring produced to \"increase\", and for the marginal cost of offspring forgone to decrease. When this is the case, it is favorable for the organism to reproduce a single time. The organism devotes all of its resources to that one episode of reproduction, so it then dies. This mathematical/graphical model has found only limited quantitative support from nature.\n\nA second set of models examines the possibility that iteroparity is a hedge against unpredictable juvenile survivorship (avoiding putting all one's eggs in one basket). Again, mathematical models have not found empirical support from real-world systems. In fact, many semelparous species live in habitats characterized by high (not low) environmental unpredictability, such as deserts and early successional habitats.\n\nThe models that have the strongest support from living systems are demographic. In Lamont Cole's classic 1954 paper, he came to the conclusion that: \nFor example, imagine two species—an iteroparous species that has annual litters averaging three offspring each, and a semelparous species that has one litter of four, and then dies. These two species have the same rate of population growth, which suggests that even a tiny fecundity advantage of one additional offspring would favor the evolution of semelparity. This is known as Cole's paradox.\n\nIn his analysis, Cole assumed that there was no mortality of individuals of the iteroparous species, even seedlings. Twenty years later, Charnov and Schaffer showed that reasonable differences in adult and juvenile mortality yield much more reasonable costs of semelparity, essentially solving Cole's paradox. An even more general demographic model was produced by Young.\n\nThese demographic models have been more successful than the other models when tested with real-world systems. It has been shown that semelparous species have higher expected adult mortality, making it more economical to put all reproductive effort into the first (and therefore final) reproductive episode.\n\nSemelparous species of Dasyuridae are typically small and carnivorous, with the exception of the northern quoll (\"Dasyurus hallucatus\"), which is large. Species with this reproductive strategy include members of the genus \"Antechinus, Phascogale tapoatafa\" and \"Phascogale culura\". The males of all three groups exhibit similar characteristics that classify them as semelparous. First, all of the males of each species disappear immediately after the mating season. Also, males that are captured and isolated from others live for 2 to 3 years. If these captured males are allowed to mate, they die immediately after the mating season, like those in the wild. Their behavior also changes drastically before and after the mating season. Before mating, males are extremely aggressive and will fight with other males if placed close together. Males that are captured before they are allowed to mate remain aggressive through the winter months. After the mating season, if allowed to mate, males become extremely lethargic and never regain their aggressiveness even if they survive to the next mating season. Other changes that occur post-mating include fur degradation and testicular degeneration. During adolescence, male fur is thick and becomes dull and thin after mating, but regains its original condition if the individual manages to survive past the mating season. The fur on the scrotum completely falls off and does not grow back, even if the male survives months after the first mating season. As the marsupial ages, its testicles grow until they reach a peak size and weight at the beginning of the mating season. After the individual mates, the weight and size of the testes and scrotum decrease. They remain small and do not produce spermatozoa later in life, if maintained in a laboratory. The 1966 Woolley study on \"Antechinus spp.\" noticed that males were only able to be maintained past mating in the laboratory and no senile males were found in the wild, suggesting that all males die shortly after mating.\n\nStudies on \"Antechinus stuartii\" reveal that male mortality is highly correlated to stress and andrenocortical activity. The study measured the corticosteroid concentration in males in the wild, males injected with cortisol, males injected with saline, and females in the wild. While both males and females exhibit high levels of corticosteroid concentration in the wild, this proves fatal only to males due to females having a higher maximum high affinity corticosteroid binding capacity (MCBC). Thus, free corticosteroid in the plasma of male \"A. stuartii\" rises sharply, while it remains constant in females. High levels of free corticosteroid, resulting from mating in wild males and injected cortisol in laboratory males, resulted in stomach ulcers, gastrointestinal hemorrhaging, and liver abscesses, all of which increased mortality. These side effects were not found in the males that were injected with saline, strengthening the hypothesis that high free corticosteroids results in higher morality in male \"Dasyurids\". A similar study on \"Phascogale calura\" showed that similar endocrine systemchanges happen in \"P. calura\" as \"A. stuartii\". This supports stress-induced mortality as a characteristic of small \"Dasyurid\" semelparity.\n\n\"Dasyurus hallucatus\", or the northern quoll, is a large \"Dasyurid\" and exhibits increased male mortality after the mating season. Unlike smaller \"Dasyurids\", male die-off in \"D. hallucatus\" is not due to endocrine system changes and there was no spermatogenic failure after the mating season ended. If male \"D. hallucatus\" survive past their first mating season, they may be able to engage in a second mating season. While the individuals in a 2001 study mostly died from vehicles or predation, researchers found evidence of physiological degradation in males, similar to the physiological degradation in small \"Dasyurids.\" This includes fur loss, parasite infestations, and weight loss. As the mating period went on, males became increasingly anemic, but the anemia was not due to ulceration or gastrointestinal bleeding. Lack of elevated cortisol levels during mating periods in \"D. hallucatus\" means that there is no current universal explanation for the mechanism behind increased male mortality in \"Dasyuridae.\" Post-reproductive senescence has also been proposed as an explanation.\n\nThe mouse opossum exhibits a semelparous reproductive strategy in males and females. Males disappear from their endemic area after the reproductive season (February–May). Males found months later (June–August) are of lighter body weight and the molar teeth are less worn down, suggesting these males belong to a different generation. There is a drop off in the female population, but during the months of July and August, evidence of a gap between generations like the male gap. There is also lower body weight and less molar wear observed in females found after August. This is further supported by the evidence that females that reproduce are not observed the following year. This species has been compared to a similarly related species \"Marmosa robinsoni\" and like \"M. incana\" in order to answer what would happen if a female that has reproduced were to survive to the next mating season. \"M. robinsoni\" has a monoestrus reproductive cycle, like \"M. incana\", and females are no longer fertile after 17 months so it is unlikely that females that survive past the drop off in female populations would be able to reproduce a second time.\n\nOther mouse opossums\n\n\"Gracilinanus microtarsus\", or the Brazilian gracile opossum, is considered to be partially semelparous because male mortality increases significantly after the mating season, but some males survive to mate again in the next reproductive cycle. The males also exhibit similar physiological degradation demonstrated in \"Antechinus\"and other semelparous marsupials such as fur loss and increase of infection from parasites.\n\nHighly elevated cortisol levels mediate the post-spawning death of semelparous \"Oncorhynchus\" Pacific salmon by causing tissue degeneration, suppressing the immune system, and impairing various homeostatic mechanisms. After swimming for such a long distance, salmon expend all of their energy on reproduction. One of the key factors in salmon rapid senescence is that these fish do not feed during reproduction so body weight is extremely reduced. In addition to physiological degradation, pacific salmon become more lethargic as mating goes on, which makes some individuals more susceptible to predation because they have less energy to avoid predators. This also increases mortality rates of adults post-mating.\n\nTraditionally, semelparity was usually defined within the time frame of a year. Critics of this criterion note that this scale is inappropriate in discussing patterns of insect reproduction because many insects breed more than once within one annual period, but generation times of less than one year. Under the traditional definition, insects are considered semelparous as a consequence of time scale rather than the distribution of reproductive effort over their adult life span. In order to resolve this inconsistency, Fritz \"et. al\" define semelparous insects as \"Insects that lay a single clutch of eggs in their lifetime and deposit them at one place are clearly semelparous or big bang reproducers. Their entire reproductive effort is committed at one time and they die shortly after oviposition\". Semelparous insects are found in Lepidoptera, Ephemeroptera, Dermaptera, Plecoptera, Strepsiptera, Trichoptera, and Homoptera.\n\nFemales of certain families of Lepidoptera, like the Gypsy Moth of \"Psychidae,\" have reduced mobility or apterous so the insects' dispersal is in the larval stage, as opposed to in the adult stage. In iteroparous insects, major dispersal occurs in the adult stage. All semelparous Lepidopterans share similar characteristics: Larva only feed in restricted periods of the year because of the nutritional state of their host plants (as a result, they are univoltine), initial food supply is predictably abundant, and larval host plants are abundant and adjacent. Death most commonly occurs by starvation. In the case of the gypsy moth, adults do not possess an active digestive system and cannot feed, but can drink moisture. Mating occurs fairly rapidly after adults emerge from their pupal form and, without a way to digest food, the adult moths die after about a week.\n\nThe evolution for semelparity in both sexes has occurred many times in plants, invertebrates, and fish. It is rare in mammals because mammals have obligate maternal care due to internal fertilization and incubation of offspring and nursing young after birth, which requires high maternal survival rate after fertilization and offspring weaning. Also, female mammals have relatively low reproductive rate compared to invertebrates or fish because they invest a lot of energy in maternal care. However, male reproductive rate is much less constrained in mammals because only females bear young. Males that die after one mating season can still produce a large number of offspring if he invests all of his energy in intense matings with many females.\n\nScientists have hypothesized that natural selection has allowed semelparity to evolved in \"Dasyuridae\" and \"Didelphidae\" because of certain ecological constraints. Female mammals ancestral to this these groups may have shortened their mating period to coincide with peak prey abundance. Because this window is so small, the females of these species exhibit a reproduction pattern where the estrous of all females occurs simultaneously. Selection would then favor aggressive males due to increased competition between males for access to females. Since the mating period is so short, it is more beneficial for males to expend all their energy on mating, even more so if they are unlikely to survive to the next mating season.\n\nReproduction is costly for anadromous salmonids because their life history requires transition from saltwater to freshwater streams and long migrations, which can be physiologically taxing. The transition between cold oceanic water to warm freshwater and steep elevation changes in Northern Paciﬁc rivers could explain the evolution of semelparity because it would be extremely difficult to return to the ocean. A noticeable difference between semelparous fish and iteroparous salmonids is that egg size varies between the two types of reproductive strategies. Studies show that egg size is also affected by migration and body size. Egg number, however shows little variation between semelparous and iteroparous populations or between resident and anadromous populations for females of the same body size. The current hypothesis behind this reason is that iteroparous species reduce the size of their eggs in order to improve the mother's chances survival, since she invests less energy in gamete formation. Semelparous species do not expect to live past one mating season, so females invest a lot more energy in gamete formation resulting in large eggs. Anadromous salmonids may also have evolved semelparity to boost the nutrition density of the spawning grounds. The most productive Pacific salmon spawning grounds contain the most carcasses of spawned adults. The dead bodies of the adult salmon decompose and provide nitrogen and phosphorus for algae to grow in the nutrient-poor water. Zooplankton then feed on the algae, and newly-hatched salmon feed on the zooplankton.\n\nAn interesting trait has evolved in semelparous insects, especially in those that have evolved from parasitic ancestors, like in all subsocial and eusocial aculeate Hymenoptera. This is because larvae are morphologically specialized for development within a host's innards and thus are entirely helpless outside of that environment. Females would need to invest a lot of energy in protecting their eggs and hatched offspring. They do this through such behaviors as egg guarding. Mothers that actively defend offspring, for example, risk injury or death by doing so. This is not beneficial in an iteroparous species because the female risks dying and not reaching her full reproductive potential by not being able to reproduce in all reproductive periods in her lifetime. Since semelparous insects only live for one reproductive cycle, they can afford to expend energy on maternal care because those offspring are her only offspring. An iteroparous insect does not need to expend energy on the eggs of one mating period because it is likely that she will mate again. There is ongoing research in maternal care in semelparous insects from lineages not descended from parasites to further understand this relationship between semelparity and maternal care.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49861393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49861393", "title": "Sequence graph", "text": "Sequence graph\n\nIn comparative genomics, a sequence graph, also called an alignment graph, breakpoint graph, or adjacency graph, is a bidirected graph in which the vertices represent segments of DNA and the edges represent adjacency between segments in a genome. The segments are labeled by the DNA string they represent, and each edge connects the tail end of one segment with the head end of another segment. Each adjacency edge is labelled by a (possibly empty) string of DNA. Traversing a connected component of segments and adjacency edges (called a \"thread\") yields a sequence, which typically represents a genome or a section of a genome. The segments can be thought of as synteny blocks, with the edges dictating how to arrange these blocks in a particular genome, and the labelling of the adjacency edges representing bases that are not contained in synteny blocks. \n\nSequence graphs can be used to represent multiple sequence alignments with the addition of a new kind of edge representing homology between segments. For a set of genomes, one can create an acyclic breakpoint graph with a thread for each genome. For two segments formula_1 and formula_2, where formula_3,formula_4,formula_5, and formula_6 represent the endpoints of the two segments, homology edges can be created from formula_3 to formula_5 and formula_4 to formula_6 or from formula_3 to formula_6 and formula_4 to formula_5 - representing the two possible orientations of the homology. The advantage of representing a multiple sequence alignment this way is that it is possible to include inversions and other structural rearrangements that wouldn't be allowable in a matrix representation.\nIf there are multiple possible paths when traversing a thread in a sequence graph, multiple sequences can be represented by the same thread. This means it is possible to create a sequence graph that represents a population of individuals with slightly different genomes - with each genome corresponding to one path through the graph. These graphs have been proposed as a replacement for the reference human genome. \n"}
{"id": "28066897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28066897", "title": "Spiritual but not religious", "text": "Spiritual but not religious\n\n\"Spiritual but not religious\" (SBNR) also known as \"Spiritual but not affiliated\" (SBNA) is a popular phrase and initialism used to self-identify a life stance of spirituality that takes issue with organized religion as the sole or most valuable means of furthering spiritual growth. Historically, the words \"religious\" and \"spiritual\" have been used synonymously to describe all the various aspects of the concept of religion, but in contemporary usage spirituality has often been associated with the interior life of the individual, placing an emphasis upon the well-being of the \"mind-body-spirit\", while \"religion\" refers to organizational or communal dimensions.\n\nHistorically, the words \"religious\" and \"spiritual\" have been used synonymously to describe all the various aspects of the concept of religion. However, religion is a highly contested term with scholars such as Russell McCutcheon arguing that the term \"religion\" is used as a way to name a \"seemingly distinct domain of diverse items of human activity and production\". The field of Religious Studies cannot even agree on one definition for religion and since spirituality overlaps with it in many ways it is difficult to reach a consensus for a definition for spirituality as well. \n\nAlthough the specific expression was used in one scholarly, anthropological paper back in 1960, SBNR as a movement in America was first named and delineated by author Sven Erlandson in his 2000 book \"Spiritual but not Religious\". The phenomenon possibly started to emerge as a result of a new Romantic movement that began in the 1960s, whereas the relationship between the two has been remotely linked to William James' definition of religious experience, which he defines as the \"feelings, acts and experiences of individual\ntheir solitude, so far as they apprehend themselves to stand in relation to whatever they may consider the divine.\" Romantic movements tend to lean away from traditional religion and resemble spiritual movements in their endorsement of mystical, unorthodox, and exotic ways. Owen Thomas also states that the ambiguity and lack of structure present in Romantic movements are also present within spiritual movements.\n\nAccording to a study conducted by Pew Research Center in 2012, the number of Americans who do not identify with any religion has increased from 15% in 2007 to 20% in 2012, and this number continues to grow. One fifth of the US public and a third of adults under the age of 30 are reportedly unaffiliated with any religion but identify as being spiritual in some way. Of these religiously unaffiliated Americans, 37% classify themselves as spiritual but not religious, while 68% say they do believe in God, and 58% feel a deep connection to the Earth.\n\nIncreased popular and scholarly attention to \"spirituality\" has been related by scholars like Pargament to sociocultural trends towards deinstitutionalization, individualization, and globalization.\n\nGenerational replacement has been understood as a significant factor of the growth of religiously unaffiliated individuals. Significant differences were found between the percentage of those considered younger Millennials (born 19901994) as compared with Generation Xers (born 19651980), with 34% and 21% reporting to be religiously unaffiliated, respectively.\n\nDemographically, research has found that the religiously unaffiliated population is younger, predominately male, and 35% are between the ages of 18 and 29. Conversely, only 8% of religiously unaffiliated individuals are 65 and older. Among those unaffiliated with organized religion as a whole, 56% are men and 44% are women.\n\nAnother possible explanation for the emergence of SBNR is linguistic. Owen Thomas highlights the fact that spirituality movements tend to be localized to English and North American cultures. The meaning of the term \"spirit\" is more narrow in English than that of other languages, referring to all of the uniquely human capacities and cultural functions.\n\nYet, according to Siobhan Chandler, to appreciate the \"god within\" is not a twentieth century notion with its roots in 1960s counter culture or 1980s New Age, but spirituality is a concept that has pervaded all of history.\n\nAccording to Abby Day, some of those who are critical of religion see it as rigid and pushy, leading them to use terms such as atheist, agnostic to describe themselves. For many people, SBNR is not just about rejecting religion outright, but not wanting to be restricted by it. \n\nAccording to Linda Mercadante, SBNRs take a decidedly anti-dogmatic stance against religious belief in general. They claim not only that belief is non-essential, but that it is potentially harmful or at least a hindrance to spirituality.\n\nAccording to Philip D. Kenneson, many of those studied who identify as SBNR feel a tension between their personal spirituality and membership in a conventional religious organization. Most of them value curiosity, intellectual freedom, and an experimental approach to religion. Many go as far to view organized religion as the major enemy of authentic spirituality, claiming that spirituality is private reflection and private experience—not public ritual. To be \"religious\" conveys an institutional connotation, usually associated with Abrahamic traditions: to attend worship services, to say Mass, to light Hanukkah candles. To be \"spiritual,\" in contrast, connotes personal practice and personal empowerment having to do with the deepest motivations of life. As a result, in cultures that are deeply suspicious of institutional structures and that place a high value on individual freedom and autonomy, spirituality has come to have largely positive connotations, while religion has been viewed more negatively. \n\nAccording to Robert Fuller, the SBNR phenomenon can be characterized as a mix of intellectual progressivism and mystical hunger, impatient with the piety of established churches.\n\nAccording to Robert Wuthnow, spirituality is about much more than going to church and agreeing or disagreeing with church doctrines. Spirituality is the shorthand term used in Western society to talk about a person's relationship with God. For many people, how they think about religion and spirituality is certainly guided by what they see and do in their congregations. At a deeper level, it involves a person's self-identity—feeling loved by God, and these feelings can wax and wane.\n\nLinda A. Mercadante categorizes SBNRs into five distinct categories: \n\nSBNR is related to feminist spiritual and religious thought and ecological spiritualities, and also to Neo-Paganism, Wicca, Shamanic, Druidic, Gaian and ceremonial magic practices. Some New Age spiritual practices include astrology, Ouija boards, Tarot cards, the \"I Ching,\" and science fiction. A common practice of SBNRs is meditation, such as mindfulness and Transcendental Meditation.\n\nSome representatives of organized religion have criticized the practice of spirituality without religiosity. Lillian Daniel, a liberal Protestant minister, has characterized the SBNR worldview as a product of secular American consumer culture, far removed from community and \"right smack in the bland majority of people who find ancient religions dull but find themselves uniquely fascinating\". James Martin, a Jesuit priest, has called the SBNR lifestyle \"plain old laziness\", stating that \"spirituality without religion can become a self-centered complacency divorced from the wisdom of a community\".\n\nOther critics contend that within the \"Spiritual but not Religious\" worldview, self-knowledge and self-growth have been problematically equated with knowledge of God, directing a person's focus inward. As a result, the political, economic, and social forces that shape the world are neglected and left untended. Further, some scholars have noted the relative spiritual superficiality of particular SBNR practices. Classical mysticism within the world's major religions requires sustained dedication, often in the form of prolonged asceticism, extended devotion to prayer, and the cultivation of humility. In contrast, SBNRs in the Western world are encouraged to dabble in spiritual practices in a way that is often casual and lacking in rigor or any reorganization of priorities. Sociologist Robert Wuthnow suggests that these forms of mysticism are \"shallow and inauthentic\". Other critics take issue with the intellectual legitimacy of SBNR scholarship. When contrasted with professional or academic theology, spiritual philosophies can appear unpolished, disjointed, or inconsistently sourced.\n\nWong and Vinsky challenge SBNR discourse that posits religion as \"institutional and structured\" in contrast to spirituality as \"inclusive and universal\" (1346). They argue that this understanding makes invisible the historical construction of \"spirituality\", which currently relies on a rejection of EuroChristianity for its own self-definition. According to them, Western discourses of \"spirituality\" appropriate indigenous spiritual traditions and \"ethnic\" traditions of the East, yet racialized ethnic groups are more likely to be labeled \"religious\" than \"spiritual\" by white SBNR practitioners. Wong and Vinsky assert that through these processes, colonial othering is enacted through SBNR discourse.\n\n\nWhat does spiritual but not religious mean - Thoughtsfire\n\n"}
{"id": "33753412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33753412", "title": "The Wandering Jew (1933 film)", "text": "The Wandering Jew (1933 film)\n\nThe Wandering Jew is a 1933 British fantasy drama film produced by the Gaumont-Twickenham Film Studios. It is the story of a Jew (played by Conrad Veidt) who is forced to wander the Earth for centuries because he rebuffed Jesus while he was carrying his cross.\n\nOther cast members included a very young Peggy Ashcroft, Francis L. Sullivan, and Felix Aylmer.\n\nThe plot follows the eponymous character's epic journey. He is finally burnt at the stake by the Spanish Inquisition. As he burns, he is forgiven by God and finally allowed to die. The story bears a resemblance to the legend of the Flying Dutchman.\n\nUnlike the antisemitic propaganda film produced by the Nazis in 1940, this film portrayed Jews in a favorable light as the victims of unjustified persecution throughout history, in the Spanish Inquisition, for example. The Nazi propaganda film, by contrast, was intended as violently anti-Semitic.\n\n"}
{"id": "7988736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7988736", "title": "Widow inheritance", "text": "Widow inheritance\n\nWidow inheritance (also known as bride inheritance) is a cultural and social practice whereby a widow is required to marry a male relative of her late husband, often his brother. Examples of widow inheritance can be found in ancient and biblical times in the form of levirate marriage.\n\nThe practice was meant as a means for the widow to have someone to support her and her children financially, and to keep her late husband's wealth within the family bloodline. At the time it was initiated, women were responsible for the house chores and men were the providers, therefore if the woman lost her husband, she would have no one to provide for the remaining family. Because her in-laws would not want someone outside of the family's blood line to inherit her late husband's estate, she was required to marry within the family.\n\nThis can have various forms and functions in different cultures, serving in relative proportions as a social protection for, and control over, the widow and her children. She may have the \"right\" to require her late husband's extended family to provide her with a new man, or conversely she might have the \"obligation\" to accept the man put forward by the family, with no real prospect of turning him down, if her birth family will not accept her back into their home.\n\nThe custom is sometimes justified on the basis that it ensures that the wealth does not leave the patrilineal family. It is also sometimes justified as a protection for the widow and her children.\n\nA form of widow inheritance existed in ancient Judaism, where it is known as levirate marriage (see \"yibbum\").\n\nIt is common in certain African groups, for example the Dinka or Jieng of South Sudan, and Luo in Kenya and Uganda around Lake Victoria. Households headed by widows are often one of the poorest groups. Under customary law, it is assumed widows and their children will be taken care of by the deceased's kin. When there is a will and testament, often all property is left to the children with the stipulation that the wife be taken care of. With no will, a widow is allowed 25% of the estate and the children inherit the remaining 75%.\n\nIn 1998, a study by FAO/IFAD in Ghana found that women's access to land was primarily through their husbands. When a husband dies, and the wife has no children, or only daughters, women are likely to lose all rights to the land. Often, the deceased's family do not take care of the widow and her children, and widow inheritance was identified as a major obstacle to household food security.\n\nAmong Pashtun communities, the code known as Pashtunwali often involves widows to be remarried, even against their will, to her dead husband's brother or cousin. The Taliban campaigned against the practice as being against Shariah Law.\n\nIt is known in India.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44407532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44407532", "title": "William Brown (cricketer, born 1889)", "text": "William Brown (cricketer, born 1889)\n\nWilliam (\"Billy\") Brown (17 January 1889 – unknown) was an English cricketer active from 1919 to 1923 who played for Lancashire. He was born in Accrington; details of his death are unknown. He appeared in ten first-class matches. It is not known if he was right or lefthanded, but he bowled at fast medium pace. He scored 239 runs with a highest score of 39 and held ten catches. He took 22 wickets with a best analysis of four for 22.\n"}
