{"id": "41787419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41787419", "title": "1976 Monte Carlo Open", "text": "1976 Monte Carlo Open\n\nThe 1976 Monte Carlo WCT was a combined men's and women's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts at the Monte Carlo Country Club in Monte Carlo, Monaco. The men's tournament was part of the World Championship Tennis (WCT) tour. It was the 71st edition of the event and was held from 13 April through 20 April 1976. Guillermo Vilas and Helga Masthoff won the singles titles.\n\n Guillermo Vilas defeated Wojciech Fibak 6–1, 6-1, 6–4\n\n Helga Masthoff defeated Fiorella Bonicelli 6–4, 6-2\n\n Karl Meiler / Wojciech Fibak defeated Björn Borg / Guillermo Vilas 7–6, 6–1\n\n Katja Ebbinghaus / Helga Masthoff defeated Rosie Reyes Darmon / Gail Lovera 6–3, 7–5\n\n"}
{"id": "15302849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15302849", "title": "1985 (Dalos novel)", "text": "1985 (Dalos novel)\n\n1985 is a sequel to George Orwell's novel \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\".\n\nWritten by Hungarian author György Dalos, originally published in 1983, this novel begins with the death of Big Brother and reflects an intermediate period between 1984 and a more optimistic future characterized with a decline in orthodoxy of the totalitarian system, struggles of the ensuing powers and the near destruction of the Oceania air force by Eurasia.\n"}
{"id": "52992467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52992467", "title": "1989 in Estonian television", "text": "1989 in Estonian television\n\nThis is a list of Estonian television related events from 1989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54858363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54858363", "title": "Alexandria train collision", "text": "Alexandria train collision\n\nThe Alexandria train collision occurred on 11 August 2017 near Khorshid station in the suburbs of the eastern edge of Alexandria, Egypt.\n\nTwo trains – one traveling from Port Said and the other from Cairo – crashed one into the rear of the other at 2:15 pm local time, killing at least 41 people and injuring another 179.\n\nOn 11 August, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi expressed his condolences for the victims and ordered government bodies to form an investigative task force to identify the cause of the accident and hold those responsible to account.\n"}
{"id": "16087396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16087396", "title": "Association of Provinces of the Netherlands", "text": "Association of Provinces of the Netherlands\n\nThe Association of Provinces of the Netherlands (\"Interprovinciaal Overleg\"; IPO) is the association of the twelve provinces of the Netherlands. The association looks after provincial interests and forms a platform for exchanging knowledge and experience among the twelve Dutch provinces. The IPO also stimulates and takes the initiative in reform programmes. \n\nThe executive of the IPO consists of thirteen members, made up of one from each province (who can be a member of that province's \"Gedeputeerde Staten\", or its Queen's Commissioner) plus a chairman. The present chairman is Jan Franssen, Queen's Commissioner in Zuid-Holland. The IPO's general assembly is made up of sixty members of the States-Provincial (5 from each province). \n\nThe office of the IPO presents provincial interests through relations with the central government, the European Union, the Association of Netherlands Municipalities, the Unie van Waterschappen and with social organizations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "45568714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45568714", "title": "BSF (time service)", "text": "BSF (time service)\n\nBSF is the callsign of the time signal transmitter for Taiwan, which transmits time information on 77.5 kHz in the longwave range, and 5 MHz & 15 MHz in the shortwave range from Chung-Li. The longwave transmitter, which uses a T-antenna is situated at .<br>\nDue to \"low demand\", the short wave of BSF was discontinued as of July 1, 2004. The time signal is currently transmitted at a low frequency of 77.5 kHz\n\nThe longwave transmitter of the station uses 1 kW of power, achieving an effective radiated power of 460 W. Each second, two bits of information are transmitted using amplitude-shift keying, making 120 bits per minute.\n\nThe format is similar to that of WWVB, reducing the carrier amplitude by on the second, and encoding information via the time when it is restored. However, BSF uses five possible times to communicate two data bits per second, or a special synchronization mark:\n\n\nNote that the data is Gray coded so that confusion between 0.4 and 0.6 seconds of full power will only corrupt one data bit, and thus be detectable by the parity bits.\n\nEach minute is divided into two blocks. The first 40 seconds are used to broadcast 76 bits of non-time information (weather, disaster warnings, etc.), and the last 20 seconds are used to broadcast the time, as follows:\n\nAlthough bits are reserved for daylight saving time information, they are currently always broadcast as zero, as Taiwan does not observe DST.\n\nThe shortwave transmitter on 5 MHz operates continuously, while that on 15 MHz has an interruption from 35 to 40 minutes after the hour. Except for this, the broadcast repeats every 10 minutes.\n\nEach second is marked with a 5 ms tick of 1000 Hz tone, amplitude modulated. At the start of each minute, the tick is lengthened to 300 ms. DUT1 is transmitted by doubling some ticks: seconds :01 through :08 for DUT1 of +0.1 through +0.8 seconds, and seconds :09 through :16 for DUT1 from −0.1 through −0.8 seconds.\n\nEach tick is preceded and followed by 40 ms of silence. The remaining \"background\" is filled on a 10-minute schedule:\n\nThis schedule repeats every ten minutes, on the hour, except for the previously mentioned 5-minute interruption on 15 MHz.\n\n"}
{"id": "8272675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8272675", "title": "Banco Caboverdiano de Negócios", "text": "Banco Caboverdiano de Negócios\n\nThe Banco Caboverdiano de Negócios (Portuguese meaning \"Capeverdean Business Bank\") is a Cape Verdean commercial bank. Its headquarters are at Avenida Amílcar Cabral, in the city centre of Praia. The current president of its Board of Directors is Luís Vasconcelos Lopes.\n\nThe company was founded in 2003 as Banco Totta de Cabo Verde (BTCV) — a local subsidiary of the Portuguese Banco Totta & Açores acquired by Banco Santander in 2000. In October 2004 BTCV was acquired by the Cape Verdean company Sociedade para o Estudo e Promoção do Investimento, and in February 2005 its name was changed to the current Banco Caboverdiano de Negócios.\n\n"}
{"id": "42757140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42757140", "title": "British Bechuanaland Government Gazette", "text": "British Bechuanaland Government Gazette\n\nThe British Bechuanaland Government Gazette was the government gazette of British Bechuanaland. It was published between 1887 and 1895, after which British Bechuanaland became part of Cape Colony. It was replaced by the \"Cape of Good Hope Government Gazette\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33581605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33581605", "title": "Bushoong languages", "text": "Bushoong languages\n\nThe Bushoong languages are a clade of Bantu languages coded Zone C.80 in Guthrie's classification. According to Nurse & Philippson (2003), apart from Dengese and the Shuwa \"dialect\" of Bushoong, the languages form a valid node. They are:\n\n"}
{"id": "31082853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31082853", "title": "Committee for Finnish Affairs", "text": "Committee for Finnish Affairs\n\nThe Committee for Finnish Affairs (Finnish: \"Suomen asiain komitea\") was a committee in the Grand Duchy of Finland that assisted the Minister–Secretary of State for Finland with various issues regarding Finland for the years from 1811 to 1826 and then from 1857 to 1891. \n"}
{"id": "14585913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14585913", "title": "Company of Guinea", "text": "Company of Guinea\n\nThe Company of Guinea was an official Portuguese governing institution whose task was to deal with spices imported during the Age of Discovery. It was called \"Casa da Guiné\" (House of Guinea), \"Casa da Guiné e Mina\" from 1482 to 1483 and \"Casa da Índia e da Guiné\" in 1499, or simply \"Casa da Índia\". It monitored and enforced the Crown's monopoly, coordinated voyages, maintained warehouses, fixed prices, and performed other roles associated with the Spice trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27190139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27190139", "title": "D510 road", "text": "D510 road\n\nD510 is a state road connecting D200 near Plovanija border crossing and D21 near Kaštel border crossing, as a part of a series of short roads connecting Kaštel border crossing and A9 motorway Umag interchange. The road is only 0.6 km long.\n\nThe road, as well as all other state roads in Croatia, is managed and maintained by Hrvatske ceste, state owned company.\n"}
{"id": "10331153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10331153", "title": "Del Bo Authority", "text": "Del Bo Authority\n\nThe Del Bo Authority was the last High Authority of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), between 1963 and 1967. Its president was Rinaldo Del Bo of Italy. Del Bo was briefly followed by Albert Coppé's interim Authority.\n\nThere were only five High Authorities, this being the last, before ECSC was merged with the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Economic Community in 1967 to become the European Community.\n\nWhen they were created, the Authorities of the Atomic Energy and Economic Communities were called \"Commissions\", and that name was kept after the three bodies merged rather than \"High Authority\", hence no Authority exists today.\n\nDel Bo's term was until 19 December 1963 but had it extended on 10 January 1964 until 8 March 1967 when he resigned.\n\nIn addition to Rinaldo Del Bo of Italy, as President, the Authority comprised:\n\nDirk Spierenburg of Netherlands, First Vice-President (until he resigned on 7 June 1965)\n\nJohannes Linthorst Homan of the Netherlands\n\nAlbert Coppé of Belgium, Second Vice-President (interim president from 8 March 1967\n\nPaul Finet of Belgium (coopted on 10 January 1964, died on 18 May 1965)\n\nJean Fohrman of Luxembourg, succeeding Finet on 30 June 1965\n\nFritz Hellwig of Germany (coopted on 10 January 1964)\n\nKarl-Maria Hettlage of Germany (from 14 December 1962, succeeding Potthof)\n\nPierre-Olivier Lapie of France\n\nRoger Reynaud of France (resigned September 1963, reappointed 10 January 1964)\n\nAlbert Wehrer of Luxembourg\n"}
{"id": "42526070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42526070", "title": "Deljadrovci", "text": "Deljadrovci\n\nDeljadrovci () is a village in the Ilinden Municipality of Macedonia.\n"}
{"id": "579403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579403", "title": "Development communication", "text": "Development communication\n\nDevelopment communication refers to the use of communication to facilitate social development. Development communication engages stakeholders and policy makers, establishes conducive environments, assesses risks and opportunities and promotes information exchanges to create positive social change via sustainable development. Development communication techniques include information dissemination and education, behavior change, social marketing, social mobilization, media advocacy, communication for social change, and community participation.\n\nDevelopment communication has not been labeled as the \"Fifth Theory of the Press\", with \"social transformation and development\", and \"the fulfillment of basic needs\" as its primary purposes. Jamias articulated the philosophy of development communication which is anchored on three main ideas. Their three main ideas are: purposive, value-laden, and pragmatic. Nora C. Quebral expanded the definition, calling it \"the art and science of human communication applied to the speedy transformation of a country and the mass of its people from poverty to a dynamic state of economic growth that makes possible greater social equality and the larger fulfillment of the human potential\". Melcote and Steeves saw it as \"emancipation communication\", aimed at combating injustice and oppression. The term \"development communication\" is sometimes used to refer to a type of marketing and public opinion research, but that is not the topic of this article.\n\nNora Cruz-Quebral, \"Ph.D.\", in the lecture she delivered for an Honorary Doctorate at the London School of Economics, University of London in December 2011, clearly accounted that the Development Communication was first articulated on December 10, 1971 at the University of the Philippines in Los Banos (UPLB). At that time, the UPLB College of Agriculture held a symposium (in honor of Dr. Dioscoro L. Umali, a national scientist in the area of plant breeding) titled \"In Search of Breakthroughs in Agricultural Development\".\n\nA recent and more encompassing definition of development communication states that it is:\n\"...the art and science of human communication linked to a society's planned transformation from a state of poverty to one dynamic socio-economic growth that makes for greater equality and the larger unfolding of individual potentials.\"\nErskine Childers defined it as:\nDevelopment support communications is a discipline in development planning and implementation in which more adequate account is taken of human behavioural factors in the design of development projects and their objectives.\nAccording to the World Bank, the Development Communication is the \"integration of strategic communication in development projects\" based on a clear understanding of indigenous realities.\n\nIn addition, the UNICEF views it as:\n\n\"...a two-way process for sharing ideas and knowledge using a range of communication tools and approaches that empower individuals and communities to take actions to improve their lives.\" The Thusong government center described it as \"providing communities with information they can use in improving their lives, which aims at making public programmes and policies real, meaningful and sustainable\".\n\nBessette (2006) defined development communication as a \"planned and systematic application of communication resources, channels, approaches and strategies to support the goals of socio-economic, political and cultural development\". Development communication is essentially participatory, because, according to Ascroft and Masilela (1994) \"participation translates into individuals being active in development programmes and processes; they contribute ideas, take initiative and articulate their needs and their problems, while asserting their autonomy.\"\n\nWho are development communicators? What qualities do they possess? Nora C. Quebral gave a succinct characterization:\n\n\nAccording to Felstehausen (1973), conventional theoretical assumptions are drawn from development communications research and are challenged on the grounds that as theoretical concepts they are inadequate guides to the selection of data and the resolution of development problems. The first conceptual fallacy results from the regular practice of choosing operational examples and analogies from the experiences of developed rather than underdeveloped countries. This is especially evident in terms of a bias favoring technology (especially U.S. technology) as a correlate to communication phenomena and as a solution to development problems. The second fallacy results from the use of inappropriate and frequently untested theoretical models within communication research causing a distorted view of the role of communication in relation to social and behavioral systems. The first issue is argued by presenting a review of empirical studies which show that communication processes and the adoption of new technology does not go on apart from the factors which define the behavior of the social, economic and political system. Correlational analyses are of little value in explaining communication processes, or in establishing their role in relation to development. The second issue is addressed by suggesting that communication is to be viewed as part of a social interaction theory in which communication is treated as a process which unveils and transforms reality in the exchange of information among persons. Communication can be defined as a process of accumulating and integrating intelligence. This reformulation shifts the research focus from questions of how communication functions to change persons (senders or receivers), to how it functions to change and transform ideas. Concepts, ideas, interests and positions can then be used as the primary units of analysis.\n\nThe practice of development communication began in the 1940s, but widespread application came about after World War II. The advent of communication sciences in the 1950s included recognition of the field as an academic discipline, led by Daniel Lerner, Wilbur Schramm and Everett Rogers. Both Childers and Quebral stressed that DC includes all means of communication, ranging from mass media to person to person.\n\nAccording to Quebral (1975), the most important feature of Philippines-style development communications is that the government is the \"chief designer and administrator of the master (development) plan wherein, development communication, in this system then is purposive, persuasive, goal-directed, audience-oriented, and interventionist by nature\".\n\nVarious schools of development communication arose in response to challenges and opportunities in individual countries. Manyozo (2006) broke the field into six schools. The \"Bretton Woods\" school was originally dominant in international literature. The others were the Latin American, Indian, African, Los Baños and participatory schools.\n\nWhile not per se an academic school, the Church has been conducting \"development communication\" for many decades. The Catholic Church's social teachings and moral norms parallel those of social development. \"Rerum novarum\" (On the New Things), for example, an encyclical written in 1891 by Pope Leo XIII critiqued social ills and promoted \"the Catholic doctrine on work, the right to property, the principle of collaboration instead of class struggle as the fundamental means for social change, the rights of the weak, the dignity of the poor and the obligations of the rich, the perfecting of justice through charity, on the right to form professional associations\"In 1961, Pope John XXIII, writing on the topic \"Christianity and Social Progress\", produced an encyclical entitled \"Mater et magistra\" (Mother and Teacher), which taught that the \"Church is called in truth, justice and love to cooperate in building with all men and women an authentic communion. In this way, economic growth will not be limited to satisfying men's needs, but it will also promote their dignity\". Then in 1967, Pope Paul VI published \"Populorum Progressio\"(Progressive Development). In it the Pope underscored the importance of justice, peace, and development by declaring that \"development is the new name of peace\". Addressing development workers, he said, \"genuine progress does not consist in wealth sought for personal comfort or for its own sake; rather it consists in an economic order designed for the welfare of the human person, where the daily bread that each man receives reflects the glow of brotherly love and the helping hand of God\".\n\nPope John VI wrote that the Church's very nature was missionary (\"Lumen gentium\" – Light of the Nations), and its deepest identity (\"Evangelii nuntiandi\" – Sharing the Gospel) embracing the entire life of the Church (\"Redemptoris missio\" – Mission of the Redeemer). The content communicated through mission is transformative and liberating—manifested in the message to the poor, setting the captives free, giving sight to the blind (), defending the interest of ordinary laborers and the value of work (\"Laborem exercens\" – Through Work), promoting the welfare of the widows and the orphans and protecting the rights of children and infants (\"Pacem in terris\" – Peace on Earth).\n\nThe importance of engagement for social transformation and development is also asserted in the Catechism of the Catholic Church, which states that, \"as far as possible citizens should take an active part in public life; the manner of this participation may vary from one country or culture to another... as with any ethical obligation, the participation of all in realizing the common good calls for a continually renewed conversion of the social partners\" (pp. 1915–1916). Moreover, \"Gaudium et spes\" (Joy and Hope), commonly referred to as the Magna Carta of the Catholic Church's teaching on human dignity, states, \"to satisfy the demands of justice and equity, strenuous efforts must be made, without disregarding the rights of persons or the natural qualities of each country, to remove as quickly as possible the immense economic inequalities which now exist and in many cases are growing and which are connected with individual and social discrimination\".\n\nThe involvement of many organizations and individual members of the Catholic Church in highlighting the plight of the needy and reaching out to the disadvantaged through works in education, health, livelihood projects, among others, serves as a concrete example of a Church that communicates a transformative and life-changing message.\n\nThe Church advocates \"establishing new relationships in human society, under the mastery and guidance of truth, justice, charity and freedom—relations between individual citizens, between citizens and their respective States, between States, and finally between individuals, families, intermediate associations and States on the one hand, and the world community on the other\". Pope John Paul II, touching in part on Quebral's (2007) thought on 'development communication in a borderless world', instructed Christian communicators to \"interpret modern cultural needs, committing themselves to approaching the communications age not as a time of alienation and confusion, but as a valuable time for the quest for the truth and for developing communion between persons and peoples\".\n\nThe Bretton Woods school of development communication paralleled the economic strategies outlined in the Marshall Plan, the Bretton Woods system and of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in 1944.\nThe little-used name served to differentiate the original paradigm from other schools that evolved later. Leading theorists included Daniel Lerner, Wilbur Schramm and Everett Rogers. Due to his pioneering influence, Rogers was referred to as \"one of the founding fathers of development communication.\"\n\nThis approach to development communication was criticized by Latin American researchers such as Luis Ramiro Beltan and Alfonso Gumucio Dagron, because it emphasized problems in the developing nation rather than its unequal relation with developed countries. They claimed that it proposed industrial capitalism as a universal solution and that many projects failed to address obstacles such as lack of access to land, agricultural credits, and fair market prices.\n\nFailed projects in the 1960s led to revisions. Manyozo found that the school had been the most dynamic in testing and adopting new approaches and methodologies.\n\nInstitutions associated with the Bretton Woods school of development communication include:\nUnited Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO)\nFood and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)\nRockefeller Foundation\nDepartment for International Development, United Kingdom\nFord Foundation\n\nThe Latin American school of development communication predates the Bretton Woods school, emerging in the 1940s with the efforts of Colombia's Radio Sutatenza and Bolivia's Radios Mineras. They pioneered participatory and educational approaches to empowering the marginalised. In effect, they served as the earliest models for participatory broadcasting efforts around the world.\n\nIn the 1960s Paolo Freire's theories of critical pedagogy and Miguel Sabido's enter-educate method became important elements of the Latin American development communication school.\n\nOther influential theorists include Juan Diaz Bordenave, Luis Ramiro Beltran, and Alfonso Gumucio Dagron (Manyozo 2006, Manyozo, 2005).\n\nIn the 1990s, technological advances facilitated social change and development: new media outlets emerged, cable TV reached more regions, and the growth of local communication firms paralleled the growth of major media corporations.\n\nOrganized development communication in India began with rural radio broadcasts in the 1940s. Broadcasts adopted indigenous languages to reach larger audiences.\n\nOrganized efforts in India started with community development projects in the 1950s. The government, guided by socialist ideals and politicians, started many development programs. Field publicity was employed for person-to-person communication. The radio played an important role in reaching the masses because literacy was low. Educational institutions – especially agricultural universities, through their extension networks – and international organizations under the United Nations umbrella experimented with development communication.\n\nNon-governmental organizations (NGOs) relied on close inter-personal relations among communicators.\n\nCommunication from the government was more generic and unidirectional. So-called Public Information Campaigns were government-sponsored public fairs in remote areas that presented entertainment along with information on social and developmental schemes. Villagers engaged in competitions to attract attendees. Public and private organizations sponsored stalls in the main exhibition area. Development agencies and service/goods providers also attended. Some state governments employed this model.\n\nCommunity radio was used in rural India. NGOs and educational institutions created local stations to broadcast information, advisories and messages on development. Local participation was encouraged. Community radio provided a platform for villagers to publicize local issues, offering the potential to elicit action from local officials.\n\nThe widespread adoption of mobile telephony in India created new channels for reaching the masses.\n\nThe African school of development communication sprang from the continent's post-colonial and communist movements in the late 1960s and early 1970s. Anglophone Africa employed radio and theatre for community education, adult literacy, health and agricultural education (Kamlongera, 1983, Mlama, 1971).\n\nIn 1994, the FAO project \"Communication for Development in Southern Africa\" was a pioneer in supporting and enhancing development projects and programs through the use of participatory communication. The FAO project, placed under SADC, developed an innovative methodology known as Participatory Rural Communication Appraisal (PRCA), which combined participatory tools and techniques with a strong communication focus needed to enhance projects results and sustainability. FAO and SADC published a handbook on PRCA that was used in projects around the world.\n\nThe radio maintained a strong presence in research and practice into the 21st century. Radio was especially important in rural areas, as the work of the non-governmental organization Farm Radio International and its members across sub-Saharan Africa demonstrated. Knowledge exchange between development partners such as agricultural scientists and farmers were mediated through rural radio (Hambly Odame, 2003).\n\nSystematic study and practice began at the University of the Philippines Los Baños in the 1970s, through the establishment of the Department of Development Communication in the College of Agriculture, which offered undergraduate and master's degrees.<ref name=\"doi10.1177/001654928202900101\"></ref>\n\nQuebral coined the term \"development communication\" while at the university's Office of Extension and Publications, now the College of Development Communication (CDC). According to Felix Librero, the term was first used by Quebral in her 1971 paper, \"Development Communication in the Agricultural Context,\" presented in at a symposium at the University of the Philippines Los Baños. In her paper, Quebral argued that development communication had become a science, requiring the tasks associated with communicating development-oriented issues be based on scientific inquiry. At the time the field was limited to agricultural and rural development.\n\nAt the time the term 'development support communication' was used in UNDP programmes under Erskine Childers, with coauthor and wife, Malicca Vajrathron. This area of research focused on the functions of communication in promoting UN agricultural and development programmes. Development communication at Los Baños became an academic field rather than a techniques program. Quebral cited Seers's definition of development in arguing for the term, as opposed to Childer's 'development support communication', which was used in public and in the scientific literature for the first time. Librero recounted that colleagues in agricultural communications in Los Baños agreed with Quebral, but colleagues from the field of mass communication in the University of the Philippines Diliman, and from countries in North America, did not initially agree, although they ultimately relented.\n\nIn 1993, in the Institute of Development Communication's faculty papers series, Alexander Flor proposed expanding the definition of development communication to include the perspective of cybernetics and general systems theory:\n\n\"If information counters entropy and societal breakdown is a type of entropy, then there must be a specific type of information that counters societal entropy. The exchange of such information – be it at the individual, group, or societal level – is called development communication.\"\n\nIn Thailand, development communication is presently overseen by Kasetsart University through its International Center for Development Communication (ICDC). The Center's vision is to be a leading centre of excellence in development training, communication and consultancy services. As an extension arm of Kasetsart University its international service mission includes building and maintaining quality services to support organizations in their efforts for sustainable development in social and economic sectors.\n\nThe evolution of the participatory development communication school involved collaboration between First World and Third World development communication organizations. It focused on community involvement in development efforts and was influenced by Freirean critical pedagogy and the Los Baños school (Besette, 2004).\n\nThe World Bank actively promotes this field through its Development Communication division and published the \"Development Communication Sourcebook\" in 2008, a resource addressing the history, concepts and practical applications of this discipline.\n\nDevelopment Communication or Communication for Development\n\nWorld Bank tends to espouse and promote the title \"Development Communication\" while UNICEF uses \"Communication for Development\". The difference seems to be a matter of semantics and not ideology since the end goals of these global organizations are almost identical to each other.\n\nUNICEF explains: \n\nWorld Bank defines Development Communication \"as an interdisciplinary field, is based on empirical research that helps to build consensus while it facilitates the sharing of knowledge to achieve a positive change in the development initiative. It is not only about effective dissemination of information but also about using empirical research and two-way communications among stakeholders\". (Development Communication division, the World Bank).\n\nOne of the first examples of development communication was Farm Radio Forums in Canada. From 1941 to 1965 farmers met weekly to listen to radio programs, supplemented by printed materials and prepared questions to encourage discussion. At first, this was a response to the Great Depression and the need for increased food production in World War II. Later the Forums dealt with social and economic issues. This model of adult education or distance education was later adopted in India and Ghana.\nRadio DZLB was the community broadcasting station of UPLB College of Development Communication. It was a forerunner of the school-on-air (SOA) concept that provided informal education for farmers. DZLB hosted SOAs on nutrition, pest management and cooperatives. DZLB aired educational programming for farmers and cooperatives.\nEstablished in 2009, Global South Development Magazine has been a recent example of development communication in practice.\nInstructional television was used in El Salvador during the 1970s to improve primary education. One problem was a lack of trained teachers. Teaching materials were improved to make them more relevant. More children attended school and graduation rates increased.\nIn the 1970s in Korea the Planned Parenthood Federation succeed in lowering birth rates and improving life in villages such as Oryu Li. It mainly used interpersonal communication in women's clubs. Oryu Li's success did not recur in all villages. The initial effort had the advantage of a remarkable local leader and visits from the provincial governor.\nA social marketing project in Bolivia in the 1980s tried to get women in the Cochabamba Valley to use soybeans in their cooking. This was an attempt to deal with chronic malnourishment among children. The project used cooking demonstrations, posters and broadcasts on local commercial radio stations. Some people tried soybeans but the outcome of the project was unclear.\nIn 1999 the US and DC Comics planned to distribute 600,000 comic books to children affected by the Kosovo War. The books were in Albanian and featured Superman and Wonder Woman. The aim was to teach children what to do when they find an unexploded land mine left over from Kosovo's civil war. The comic books instruct children not to touch and not to move, but instead to call an adult for help.\nSince 2002, Journalists for Human Rights, a Canadian NGO, has operated projects in Ghana, Sierra Leone, Liberia, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. JHR works directly with journalists, providing monthly workshops, student sessions, on the job training and additional programs on a country by country basis.\nCuban Media and Education - In 1961, the year of education, the well known literacy campaign was initiated. Television and radio played a complementary role in the dissemination of literacy training programs. Live coverage of literacy worker and students was used to dramatise and this was reinforced on radio and in newspapers. \n\nDevelopment communication policy covers formal and informal processes where interests are defined, expressed and negotiated by actors with different levels of power and with the goal of influencing policy decisions.\n\nAlexander G. Flor, Ph.D., a noted development communicator and professor at the University of the Philippines Los Banos (UPLB) and University of the Philippines Open University (UPOU), posits that development communication and the policy sciences are linked inextricably albeit distinct and mutually exclusive disciplines. \"Policy sciences\", he states in a nutshell, is the scientific study of policies and policy-making while \"policy\" is the set of decisions with specific objectives and target audience.\n\nDevelopment communication is intended to build consensus and facilitate knowledge sharing to achieve positive change in development initiatives. It disseminates information and employs empirical research, two-way communication and dialogue among stakeholders. It is a management tool to help assess socio-political risks and opportunities. By using communication to bridge differences and take action towards change, development communication can lead to successful and sustainable results.\n\nDevelopment communication is a response to historic, social and economic factors that limit access to information and citizen participation. These include poverty and unemployment, limited access to basic services, remote settlement patterns, lack of access to technology, lack of information, inadequate health services, lack of education and skills and lack of infrastructure.\n\nFAO asserted that communication can play a decisive role in promoting human development. Democracy, decentralization and the market economy empower individuals and communities to control their own destinies. Stimulating awareness, participation, and capabilities are vital. Policies must encourage effective planning and implementation of communication programs.\n\nLee advocated that communication policies and practices require joint action among leaders in social, economic, scientific, educational and foreign affairs and that success requires constant contact and consultation with communicators and citizens.\n\nUNESCO conducted studies on communication policies as part of the resolutions adopted by the General Conference of UNESCO during its 16th session in 1970. Its objective was to promote awareness of communication policies at the governmental, institutional and professional levels of selected member states. The selected countries were Ireland, Sweden, Hungary, Yugoslavia, West Germany, and Brazil. Two years later, a UNESCO meeting of experts on communication policies and planning defined communication policy as a set of norms established to guide the behavior of communication media. According to these experts, the scope of communication policies comprises:\nThe values that determine the structure of communication systems and guide their operation\nThe systems of communication, their structures, and operation\nThe output of these systems and their impact and social functions\n\nThe Asian Media Information and Communication Centre (AMIC) was commissioned by UNESCO to do a feasibility study on \"Training in Communication Planning in Asia\" in 1974.\nIt organized the first AMIC Regional Conference on Development Communication Policies and Planning in Manila, Philippines in May 1977. Attended by delegates from ten countries, it drew up basic recommendations including the organization of national development communication councils by each country's governmental, educational and media groups.\n\nAccording to Habermann and De Fontgalland, the difficulties in the adoption of a viable development communication policy have to be simultaneously analyzed horizontally and vertically. Horizontally government agencies, semi-governmental offices (e.g., rural extension service), independent development organizations and private media outlets must coordinate policy. Vertically, information must flow in both directions between the population base and decision-making bodies. This involves local and supra-local administrations that are active in handing out directives and reporting back to the government. Commonly, default policies do not encourage/require such institutions to feed information from the populace to policymakers, with the exception of government extension bureaus.\n\nIn 1986 Quebral stressed the importance of equally recognizing systematic practice along with formal research as a legitimate basis for decisions. According to her, research must precede and become the foundation of policy.\n\nThe design and implementation of policies is becoming more complex, and the number and type of actors involved in policy implementation more diverse; hence, the policy process is evolving towards multi-actor and multi-goal situations. \"Stakeholder\" has been variously defined according to the goal of the analysis, the analytic approach or the policy area. Where several groups of stakeholders are involved in the policy process, a stakeholder analysis can provide a useful resource.\n\nStakeholder analysis can help analyze the behavior, intentions, interrelations, agendas, interests and the resources of stakeholders in the policy processes. Crosby described stakeholder analysis as offering methods and approaches to analyze the interests and roles of key players. Hannan and Freeman include groups or individual who can affect or be affected by the achievement of the organization's objectives, while others exclude those who cannot influence the outcome. For instance, Brugha and Varvasovszky defined stakeholder as \"individuals, groups, and organizations who have an interest (stake) and the potential to influence the actions and aims of an organization, project, or policy direction.\" According to Flor, a stakeholder analysis of communication policy would reveal the interplay of the following sectors:\nGovernment – Enacts all communication policies, making it the most powerful stakeholder.\nEducation sector – Conducts research that underlies subsequent policies.\nCommunication industry – Influences communication policies. May adopt self-regulation to avoid/delay government regulation. For example, the Kapisanan ng mga Brodkaster sa Pilipinas and the Philippine Press Institute institute ethics codes.\nPrivate sector – Avoid policies that limit content and to protect themselves from opponents.\nReligious sector – Traditionally opposes policies that allow obscenity, violence and profanity to be distributed.\nForeign interests – e.g., international lending agencies may demand the end of monopolies—including state media entities—as a condition for financial aid.\nConsumers – Traditionally not consulted, but more recently claiming to protect the public interest.\n\nThe United Nations has recognised the importance of \"the need to support two-way communication systems that enable dialogue and that allow communities to express their aspirations and concerns and participate in decisions...\" Such two-way interactions can help expose local reality.\nKeune and Sinha claim that community involvement in development communication policy is important, as they are the \"ultimate and perhaps the most important beneficiaries of development communication policies and planning\".\n\nCuilenburg and McQuail (2003) identify three main phases of communications policy-making:\nPublic Service Media Policy (1945–1980)—After the Second World War, policy was dominated by sociopolitical rather than economic and national strategic concerns. This phase began after the Second World War. Policy expanded from addressing technical matters to the content of communications and to cover the traditional press.\nNew Communications Policy Paradigm (1980 to present)—Technological, economic and social trends fundamentally changed media policy from 1980 onward. Technological convergence became an agenda item when the US Office of Technology Assessment published its pioneering study, \"Critical Connections\" (OTA, 1990) followed by the European Union (CEC, 1997). \"Convergence\" meant that the boundaries between information technologies blurred: computer and telecommunications converged to telematics; personal computers and television become more similar; and formerly separated networks become interconnected. Regulation of mass media became increasingly linked to telecommunications regulation. Globalization and the permeability of national frontiers by multinational media limited the impact of policy in most countries.\n\nDevelopment communication policy as a field experienced persistent conflict. Debates operated within the discourse of each period: autonomous vs. dependent in the 50s; unequal North-South communication flows in the 60s and 70s; transnational corporations and non-governmental actors in the 80s; the converged global information society and the market-based media structure in the 90s; and online media and the digital divide in the 2000s.\n\nHamelink and Nordenstreng called for multistakeholder participation in information and communications technology (ICT) governance and for formal and informal policy development mechanisms to enable state and non-state actors to shape the media and communication industries.\n\nManyozo advocated a rethinking of communication for development policies, perceiving a failure by communication policy makers to identify funding institutions that encourage cultural imperialism and unequal power relations between Western and local organizations. He attributed this to the absence in communication policy debates of a political economy discourse. In reviewing the different approaches to communication for development policies—media, participation and community dialogue—Manyozo criticizes groups that emphasizes one over the others.\n\nDevelopment communication policy science take off from development theory that which it says that policy recommendation becomes an engine to the process of social change (Servaes, 1986). The concept of development communication policy science has reference to the following:\na) Diffusion model which enunciates that 'that the role of communication was (1) to transfer technological innovations from development agencies to their clients, and (2) to create an appetite for change through raising a 'climate for modernization' among the members of the public'.\nb) The participatory model which incorporates the concept of multiplicity development through democratization and participation at all levels – international, national, local and individual but values the cultural identity of local communities.\n\nFlor recognizes the affinity of Development Communication and Policy Science; hence coined “Development Communication Policy Science”. In his writings, this concept can be deduced to mean creating guidelines that “stems from the need for actively applying knowledge from and principles of the social sciences in solving large-scale societal problems under conditions of social change” and of which in the process communication is a critical variable.\n\nUNESCO posits that in order to effect positive developmental change, there is a need to form people and processes that facilitate the creation of knowledge. For development to happen, a two-way horizontal model which allow direct participation of those most affected by the development issue(s) can be adopted. In this model, the stakeholder's participation are in a form of defining and implementing solutions and identifying development directions. Engaging in dialogue with stakeholders for purposes of understanding their perceptions, perspectives, values, attitudes and practices are essential inputs to the design and implementation of development initiatives.\n\nDevelopment communication policy science is a thriving and a contemporary field in social sciences. It is the application of the policy sciences to improve policy development, implementation and evaluation in the development communication context. According to Flor (1991), development communication and policy sciences are regarded as distinct and mutually exclusive areas of study but are inextricably linked. He added that development communication and the policy sciences, although different in scope, stem from the same rationale: the need for actively applying knowledge from the principles of social sciences in solving large-scale societal problems under conditions of social change. Separately, development communication is a purposive, pragmatic, and value-laden development intervention while the policy sciences are the scientific study of policies and policy-making for the social good. Both endorse a normative or prescriptive role for the social sciences, work to alleviate societal problems and recognize communication's important function (Ongkiko & Flor, 2006). As an academic discipline, development communication policy science is the study of the use of the art and the science of policy in the development communication context.\nDevelopment communication's ultimate goal is to catalyze local development activities, local development planning and implementation, and local communication to smoothen the path to development. It is the science which uses communication to educate, change and motivate people's attitudes and values leading to developmental goals Policy is a term which frames the action rather than simply describing it (Colebatch, 2002). Thus, it labels what we see so that we can make sense of it in a particular way. Understanding policy means understanding the way in which practitioners use it to shape action. It leads us to ask who is involved in what setting, how the action is framed and what significance in this process of the idea of authorized purpose, and not simply an outcome. Indeed, the \"approach of the policy science is forward-looking and anticipatory\".\n\nThe two fields are undoubtedly different. However, Flor accurately stated that \"both stem from the same rationale: the need for actively applying knowledge and principles of the social sciences in solving large-scale societal problems under conditions of social change\". The connection between the two fields will be apparent once the question, 'what is the policy for?' is answered. Since policy is the pursuit of goals and the effect they have on the action; and development communication aims to facilitate social change, the two processes are represented as a sequence of stages in the development, beginning with the thought and the intention (policy), moving through action brought about by communication, and ending with the solution (action). To reiterate, unless the policy decision could shape the action, there would be no point in making it.\n\nWhen policy sciences and development communication have been firmly established in an organization or community, the instruments of policy analysis will provide \"unprecedented versatility and effectiveness\" (Lasswell, 1969). Specifically, the practice and application of social marketing strategies to influence the stakeholders in making decisions to create not only an individual but also social change.\n\nLasswell (1970: 3) defines policy sciences as \"knowledge of the policy process as well as knowledge in this process\". Torgerson (1985) states that Lasswell proposed the development of policy science-or policy sciences-as an interdisciplinary field to embrace all the social sciences and to produce knowledge applicable to public problems. The term \"policy sciences\" in its plural form, therefore, emphasizes its interdisciplinary nature (Flor, 1991). According to Hale (2011), the central aim of policy sciences is to resolve problems [in the service of human dignity] and the diverse human, historical, and contextual element in public policy-making. This is a reiteration of the Lasswellian maxim on public policy in the following key elements: \"contextual\"; \"problem-oriented\"; \"multi-method inquiry\" or diverse empirical methods, \"political\", \"normative, welfare-oriented\" in the case of social policy goals; and posing \"interdisciplinarity\" or moving between humanities and social sciences. Indeed, Lasswell's original goal of the policy sciences was to provide, \"intelligence pertinent to the integration of values realized by and embodied by interpersonal relations [such as] human dignity and the realization of human capacities\" (Lasswell and Kaplan, 1950: p. xii). The \"policy sciences\" therefore adopts an approach to understanding and solving problems that draw on and contribute to all fields of knowledge (Quebral, 2006) and sets out procedures in an integrated and comprehensive form to help clarify and secure common interests.\n\nAccording to Harold Lasswell (1971), the policy sciences are concerned with the knowledge \"of\" and \"in\" the decision processes of the public and civic order. Knowledge of decision processes points to the empirical and scientific understanding of how policies are made and executed. At one moment, the analyst regards his subject-matter as an objective phenomenon, but this phase alternates with another in which the analyst comes to view himself as actively involved in the phenomenon which he investigates. Inquiry displays both tension and interplay between these moments; they are distinct yet interwoven, complementary in the ongoing development and refinement of contextual orientation (Togerson, 1985). Empirical knowledge pertains to those generated through scientific inquiry and observation as applied to decision processes. As such, the notion of the policy sciences is construed in various shades since it was introduced in the 1940s and over the years, Lasswell and his colleagues refined the concept, through practice and peer review, as the intellectual tools needed to support problem-oriented, contextual, and multi-method inquiry in the service of human dignity for all. The policy sciences is a forward-looking body of knowledge, with the plural form emphasizing its interdisciplinary and holistic nature. It recognizes the multiplicity of factors affecting certain problems and multi-dimensions of certain phenomena that are subject to decision processes. According to Laswell (1971, p. 39), an adequate strategy of problem solving in policy sciences encompasses five intellectual tasks performed at varying levels of insight and understanding namely: goal clarification; trend description; analysis of conditions; projection of developments; and invention, evaluation, and selection of alternatives. As such, the emphasis of policy sciences is on applying scientific or empirical evidences in understanding problems so that more realistic, responsive and effective interventions are identified and implemented. Since a problem is multidimensional, various scientific disciplines are needed to form a comprehensive analysis of a certain phenomenon. The trend toward a policy sciences viewpoint is a move away from fragmentation and the fragmented \"worm's eye view\" of policy matters.\n\nThe policy sciences provide an integrated and comprehensive approach for addressing issues and problems at all levels in ways that help clarify and secure the common interest. Policy sciences are concerned with helping people make better decisions toward fostering human dignity for all. Since we are living in a \"turbulent field\" environment, policy science is necessary to address issues before it will get bigger. The approach of policy sciences, as cited by Flor in his article, is forward-looking or anticipatory. Policy sciences tell us what we need to do and prepare before certain issues or problems occur. Using an allegorical definition, Dror (1971), as cited by Ongkiko and Flor (2006), explains that \"one should not leave the problem of crossing a river until the river is reached; rather, one should survey the territory in advance, identify rivers flowing through it, decide whether it is at all necessary to cross the river—and if so, where and how to cross it—then prepare in advance the materials for crossing the river and design a logistics network so that the material is ready when the river is reached.\" Furthermore, given its interdisciplinary and holistic nature, policy sciences does consider several variables (education, communication, money, culture) in coming up with a decision. These variables are important factors in coming up with a sound and relevant policy.\n\nIn the context of communication policy development, the policy sciences are necessary to make more purposeful, responsive, and effective communication policies. Profoundly influenced by Freud and Marx, Lasswell emphasized the importance of the contextual orientation of policy analysts, both individually and collectively (Lasswell, 1965). When he first articulated this principle of contextuality, Lasswell indeed referred explicitly to the \"exposition of the dialectical method\" (1965) in Lukacs's \"History and Class Consciousness\", adding that the insights of psychoanalysis provided a complement to the Marxian dialectic which would aid in understanding \"the symbolic aspects of historical development\" (Laswell, 1965, p. 19). Here Lasswell proposed a mode of contextual-configurative analysis whereby, through \"an act of creative orientation\" (Laasswell, 1965, p. 13), the inquirer could locate himself in an 'all-encompassing totality\" (Lasswell, 1965, p. 12). In this regard, Lasswell considered such contextual orientation indispensable to the conduct of rational inquiry, and urged the use of contextual-configurative analysis in the development of a policy science profession. Hale (2011, p. 221) contends that Lasswell saw that robust policy solutions could only be obtained by insisting upon a commitment to contextuality, problem orientation, and methodological diversity. All for good reasons: first, no decision can adequately be understood apart from the larger social process in which it is itself apart. Thus contextuality is a key element in the policy sciences. As a reliance on ideology, principle, and grand historical projects cannot, given the complexity and contextuality of policy problems, serve with reliable solution, a discipline geared to resolve problems should expressly orient itself on those problems and should be purposeful. Thus problem orientation is the second key element in the policy sciences. Finally, due to the multidimensionality and complexity of many of these problems it stands to reason that the policy scientist should draw from a diversity of methodologies. Thus methodological diversity is the third key element in the policy sciences. It is Lasswell's sincere belief that understanding the policy formation and decision-making process will eventually also be beneficial in the creation of public policy (Hale, 2011).\n\nHepp, A., Roitsch, C., & Berg, M. (2016) introduces the approach of contextualised communication network analysis as a qualitative procedure for researching communicative relationships realised through the media. It combines qualitative interviews on media appropriation, egocentric network maps, and media diaries. Through the triangulation of these methods of data collection, it is possible to gain a differentiated insight into the specific meanings, structures and processes of communication networks across a variety of media. The approach is illustrated using a recent study dealing with the mediatisation of community building among young people. In this context, the qualitative communication network analysis has been applied to distinguish “localists” from “centrists”, “multilocalists”, and “pluralists”. These different “horizons of mediatised communitisation” are connected to distinct communication networks. Since this involves today a variety of different media, the contextual analysis of communication networks necessarily has to imply a cross-media perspective.\n\nOancea, A., Florez Petour, T., and Atkinson, J. (2017) noted a particular advantage of qualitative network analysis tools approach in its fit to the study of cultural value and impact in different disciplinary and institutional settings.\n\nSciences are policy sciences when they clarify the process of policy-making in society or supply data for the making of rational judgments on policy questions\" Lasswell (1975). The 'art' of policy sciences, therefore, seek to improve decision-making by reinforcing and supporting human dignity to elide the blinders of instrumental reason by addressing the manifold of human experience (Hale, 2001). The personalities who significantly play vital roles in this field are the policy scientists and analysts who are involved in the scientific design, formulation, analysis, and evaluation of policies in particular and are concerned with the study of the policy-making process in general (Flor, 1991). Lasswell and McDougal called on \"policy scientists to aid decision makers in clarifying goals, identifying trends relative to goals, analyzing the factors causing or contributing to specific trends, projecting the future, and inventing and evaluating policy proposals—alternative actions that may be taken related to the desired results.\" To ensure that policy scientists would be adequately equipped for these intellectual tasks, Lasswell and McDougal proposed educational training programs devoted to the knowledge and skills needed for better policy (decision) making: contextual thinking, problem orientation, and mastery of diverse methods.\n\nTo guide communication policy-makers in addressing challenges, Picard and Pickard (2017) proposed policy principles that aim to guide contemporary media and communications policymaking in democratic countries so the contributions of these operations and systems to society may be improved. They maintain that “Media and communications policies are central to many of the social and political issues that societies face today.” However, existing policies are often unable to respond to rapid technological, economic, political, and social developments because they address only particular media and communication challenges at a particular time. On the other hand, fundamental principles are constant, thus providing guidance on how to respond to new concerns and challenges and making appropriate policies.\n\nPicard and Pickard (2017) note that \"policy principles are coherent statements based on underlying norms and values that help policymakers and organisations respond to issues and take part in legislative and regulatory activities\". In practice, principles are articulated and then used to set policy objectives and determine the means to achieve them. The latter two stages opine Picard and Pickard (2017), are subjected to \"political\" processes that determine the final policy outcome.\n\nPicard and Pickard (2017) therefore came up with the following rubric list of potential principles that they believe are crucial in crafting a much reflective communication policy:\n\n\nThe authors (Picard and Pickard, 2017) disaggregated these key principles as follows:\n\nPrinciples are therefore not neutral, because they are normative, reflecting specific values that are subject to contestation. In choosing among policy principles, Picard and Pickard (2017) assert that policymakers should optimally be concerned about \"effects of policy on all stakeholders\", giving primacy to fundamental communication \"needs\" of society and seeking to \"balance\" social and economic benefit.\n\n\"Communication and Culture, Conflict and Cohesion\" is a book edited by Alexander G. Flor (2002), an expert on Knowledge Management for Development, which discusses the need for convergence in society through inter-cultural communication, using case studies in Malaysia, Indonesia, and the Philippines. It also examines environmental conflicts, indigenous peoples, and the official development assistance in the Philippines. In the book, Flor noted that communication and culture are “inextricably linked”. Societal conflict in this age of informatization is a “function of culture caused by a dysfunction of societal communication”. The quality and degree of societal communication – the mass media and education -- determine the ways that cultures are exposed to others. The higher the quality and degree of inter-cultural communication, the lower the propensity for conflict, and vice versa. He observed that many of the world’s contemporary wars – in Rwanda, Basque, Bosnia, Kosovo, Chechnya, Afghanistan, Aceh, East Timor -- are not being waged by national political struggles “but by cultures”. For example, Catholic bishops and Islam ulama agree that the conflict in the island of Mindanao in the Philippines is triggered by “opposing value systems (on the use of natural resources), opposing social structures (feudal vs. oligarchic), and opposing worldviews (materialistic vs. idealistic)” – all of which, Flor noted, are components of culture. One of the first steps to help repair the situation is for communication policy scientists to “begin with tolerance as a short-term solution, and understanding as a long-term solution”. Tolerance and understanding require “good communication” from both ends of the spectrum that are striving to achieve “mutual understanding” – the goal of Kincaid (1979) for communication in his Convergence Model. The concept of convergence looks at the communication process as cyclical between source and receiver, and interactive between their message and feedback. “With convergence comes cohesion.” Mutual understanding achieved through communication helps preclude conflicts, and encourages cohesion among the world’s cultures.\n\nReferences:\nFlor, Alexander G. (2002). Communication and Culture, Conflict and Cohesion. University of the Philippines-Los Banos College of Development Communication, and the Foundation for Development & Communication, Los Banos, Laguna, Philippines. \nKincaid, D. Lawrence (1979). The Convergence Model of Communication. Institute of Communication & Culture, University of Hawaii East-West Center, Honolulu, Hawaii.\n\nThe atmosphere of participation created by recent administrations has brought about a more significant role for the development communication specialist/ policy scientist. His involvement in communication policymaking is facilitated by the so-called institutionalization of people power. His expertise may be directly tapped by the most important stakeholder, the media consumer. The participation of information users and media consumers in policy making may be realized by the formation of a nationwide media consumer's organization or a federation of local organizations of this nature in which policy analysts play a significant role. This proposed organization could initiate media education in the formal and non-formal modes. Media education at the formal level may be facilitated by lobbying for the inclusion of such in existing secondary and tertiary curricula. Non-formal education may be conducted through media consumer sponsored awareness campaigns. This organization could also conduct its own audience related studies and policy research. It could establish a nationwide network involving the church, academic communities, grassroots organizations and cause-oriented groups. Communication policy scientists may also serve as part of the staff of our legislators in the Congress and Senate. In their private capacities, they can form research and development outfits or \"think tanks\" whose services may be availed of by government agencies. Indeed, now is a fortuitous time for policy engagement in development communication.\n\nCulture, politics, economics and technology have an impact on policy decisions. In order to investigate the factors that influence communications policy, one has to go beyond conventional views of media and communication and should combine these with policy studies.\n\nAccording to experts, communication policy science would be understood if the public just had access to the right scientific information. Coyle, in his article \"Theory of Development Communication\", articulates that people have options to change their ways of life through communication. People improve their lives and ways of thinking through communication, sharing their perspectives and understanding what is going on in their surroundings. As highlighted by Flor, communication development has something to do with policy science as these are anchored for improving policy making.\n\nAs stipulated in Walt Rostow's theory in Boado's article, societies progress through specific stages of development on their way to modernity. Policy makers and scientists can communicate directly with the public through social media and blogging. By using social media outlets such as Twitter and Facebook, policymakers and scientists can serve as critical mediators in disseminating scientific information by sharing advancements directly with society.\n\nJohn A.R. Lee, author of \"Towards Realistic Communication Policies: Recent Trends and Ideas Compiled and Analysed\", published by The Unesco Press, shares that every state or nation carries communication policies. These policies are stated/embedded in \"legislation, conditions, codes of conduct, rules and proceedings\" or implied/suggested \"in accepted practices.\" He adds that they are present \"at the national, institutional and professional levels.\"\n\nBy citing a Unesco report made by experts on communication and planning, Lee defines communication policies as \"sets of principles and norms established to guide the behaviour of communication systems.\"\n\nHe adds that the dimensions of communication policies as well as communication planning encompass the communication system, its components and structures; the functions of the system; the \"clients\" or audience using the system; the types of information carried by the system and its components; the values and qualities of the information content; and a variety of considerations about the system, its functions, audience, types of information and qualities. Members of the audience are classified based on such characteristics as age, sex, occupations, socio-economic strata, urban-rural (locations) and persuasions. Types of information refer to the conversation, cultural forms, data, education, entertainment, general information, music, news and opinion. Meanwhile, truth, objectivity, relevance, educational effectiveness, violence, humour, sex, libel are examples of values and qualities of the information content.\n\nAccording to Lee, the \"consideration, identification and determination\" of the scope of specific communication systems and societal principles and norms are needed in formulating communication policies.\n\nIn his paper, Lee also discusses participation in the formulation of communication policies by asking, \"Who is involved?\" and identifying the stakeholders. They are government executive, legislative bodies, authorities in charge of social and economic planning, individual ministries and their planning boards, communication enterprises, professional organizations, the citizen, the social scientist and the economist.\n\nE. Lloyd Sommerland, UNESCO Regional Communication Adviser for Asia, points out the difference between communication policies and communication planning by saying that the former provides \"the principles, rules and guidelines on which the communication system is built,\" while the latter is concerned with the policy implementation.\n\nHe shares that every country engages in development planning that touches different sectors of a society like \"agriculture, manufacturing, commerce, education, health, transport and communication, social and community services.\" At the heart of these plans for development is communication. \"Communication is part and parcel of this whole process of development and needs its own infrastructure,\" said Summerland. The word \"communication\" in this particular context includes telecommunications, mass media (print and broadcast), face-to-face communication and traditional channels and these are resources tapped by a society \"to enable information to flow within it\", he adds.\n\nThe author emphasizes the role of communication in national development.\n\nSommerland also underlines that communication policies are not the ends and they provide a framework for action. He makes a reference to what a UNESCO expert group has said that behind these policies is strategic planning.\n\n\"(It) determines the alternative ways to achieve long-range goals and sets the frame of reference for shorter-range operational planning. Strategic planning translates into quantified targets and systematic approaches, the general objectives of communication policies,\" he says.\n\nSommerland also supports some claims of Lee that communication policies are either embedded or implied in the existing policies of a nation.\n\n\"For a country to try and formulate a coherent national communication policy does not, of course, imply that no policies in this area already exist,\" the former says. \"...Because communication is interdisciplinary and because it is the thread which binds a nation together, communication policies even if incomplete and implicit, are to be found in many different parts of a political and social system.\n\nDevelopment communication and policy sciences exhibits mutuality as catalysts of change in this fluid environment. Both are geared towards effecting change in society. Will these two sciences be robustly beneficial if converged in one developmental framework? Allen (as cited in Flor, 1991) postulates that policy is a science of decision-making based on empirical data gathered from observation. One important characteristic of policies is, it is created to facilitate civic order, an agent to development process. How does it relate to development communication? Although a relatively young science, Development Communication has now been recognized and adopted by various agencies: the government and private sector as a means to institute effective changes using bottom-up approach. In the same vein, policy sciences grew out of this need to reorient actively the social sciences to the resolution of policy issues. Recognizing that every human being is a value-shaper and sharer in the social process, interaction as whole has been considered systemically by both sciences. A policy science is anchored on its \"intelligence\" function, followed by mobilization and bureaucratic reforms where mobilization is a key component of development communication. Development communication practitioners are well-equipped when it comes to understanding social phenomena which can aid in the \"intelligence function\" of policy scientists. The development agenda of both sciences are anchored on \"contextuality,\" meaning both recognizes the human's social values and institutions in drafting interventions, plans and policies to achieve an \"enlightened society\".\n\nThese policies are products of Development Communication initiatives that can influence decision makers or the government in enacting pertinent laws for the benefit of the publics. Development communication's process is akin to policy science as both recognizes the context or the environment where humans socially interact. Both are using social science procedures in solving large-scale problems and further acknowledges communication as an integral part of the process. Hence one can surmise that policy decision-making is dependent on communication.\n\nIn an era of rapid development, each field should not be viewed as dialectically superior against the other, rather both development communication and policy sciences should mutually work to advance for the social change. The thrusts and goals of Development communication can be sustainable if it is backed by certain policies.\n\nFollowing Quebral’s definition of Development communication “the \"art\" and \"science\" of \"human communication\" applied to \"speedy transformation\" of a country and the mass of its people from \"poverty\" to \"dynamic state of economic growth\" that makes possible \"greater social equality\" and the \"larger fulfillment of human potential\"”, Flor and Ongkiko explained each aspect of this definition for better understanding on why development communication was defined this way.\n\nART\n\nIn relaying a message, creativity is needed to attract the attention of its audience. It does not focus only on beautifying the message or the image but the art of communicating with people that would help them understand and adapt to the changes that will happen to them.\n\nSCIENCE\n\nAs Flor and Ongkiko emphasize, development communication is a social science. At the same time, it is both theory and practices. The theory is backed-up with science in order to understand a situation, then the application or execution of plans towards development is the practice. A systematic approach which mostly based on the methods of science is followed in order to address a situation. The most commonly used method is identifying the problem, gathering data about the problem and develop communication processes that will be useful in able to address the situation and helped the community for development.\n\nHUMAN COMMUNICATION\n\nThis is an important aspect for development communication because it is people-centred. The people need to communicate with one another for their own development. The people behind the development is reaching out to the people who need development. That is human communication.\n\nSPEEDY TRANSFORMATION\n\nThis represents the social change that will happen to the community. All the researches made in able to identify the problem must put into action for the transformation of the lives of the people in the community.\n\nPOVERTY\n\nThe greatest challenge in development communication is poverty. Even in the Millennium Development Goals of United Nations, poverty is at the top of the list that needs to address with the hope of eradicating it in the future. Because of poverty, many people are experiencing malnutrition, unemployment and illiteracy which adds to the burden of the people.\n\nDYNAMIC STATE OF ECONOMIC GROWTH, GREATER SOCIAL EQUALITY, LARGER FULFILLMENT OF HUMAN POTENTIAL\n\nSince the goal is for development, this is a continuous process. The aim is to help the people with their economic, social, and environmental goals.\n\nNoticeably, everything that was mentioned in the explanation of the definition of development communication has something to do with goals, progress, theory, research, problem identification, and practices. Thomas L. McPhail, also describes development communication as a process of change using education or media as long as it is for the purpose of positive social change.\n\nThis coincides with Harold Lasswell’s vision that policy sciences bring together social sciences and practical policymaking to solve public problems, formalizing the link between the two. \n\nAs mentioned, development communication is backed with science through theories by identifying the problems needed to address. Lasswell identified policy science as problem-solving, with the idea of when addressing the problems, it should focus on human dignity or the fulfilment of human potential as Quebral said on her definition of development communication.\n\nNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT\n\nAccording to Jaime B. Ramirez (2011), members of the development media have considered economic and social development as one of the significant and vital signs of national development. Admittedly, he said, development communication cam always bridge gaps between the traditional and modern changing society, as it can raise the full aspirations of the people under the new society in the overall strategy for change. Development communication accordingly, can enforce social norms. In terms of policy sciences, development communication Ramirez adds, can broaden the policy dialogue by providing the two-way flow of information and opinion required for development as a nation. It, therefore, plays a potent and major role to economic and social development as well as political power. Without sacrificing its freedom, the development media can contribute to the growth of democratic institutions and to political stability, essential to national development.<Philippine Journalism Handbook, 3rd Edition. 2011 reprint>.\n\n\"Communication is a key factor to begin and keep a proper Sustainable Development strategy\" (Bucur and Petra, 2011). Development Communication can be defined as a \"dialogue-based process entailing the strategic application of communication approaches, methods and/or technologies for social change\". This definition highlights the three important features of development communication – process, analytical activity based on dialogue, and aims to achieve change. Strategic Communication is essential in encouraging public participation and achieving effective policy making. It affects goal setting, decision making, development and implementation, and impact assessment. However, communication as a strategic tool remains deficient in development programs creating the need to establish an Interest Group on Strategic Communication for Sustainable Development. Strategic communication \"aims at the innovative and sustainable change of practices, behaviors and lifestyles, guides communication processes and media interventions within and among social groups\".\nAn effective strategy for sustainable development integrates the vision and action plan of the government, civil society and the private sector. The World Bank views development communication as the \"integration of strategic communication in development projects\" based on a clear understanding of indigenous realities. The Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency is now recognizing the value of implementing strategic communication to support development initiatives. This is aligned with the long tradition of strategic communication initiatives used in development projects related to human rights, democracy, poverty alleviation and health aimed at generating awareness, promoting behavioral changes, affording mobilization, and creating partnerships to reach common goals.\n\nDevelopment communication efforts, along with other development strategies, have failed to improve the conditions of women on a global scale, and when compared with men, women are disproportionately subject to poverty, illiteracy, domestic violence, discrimination, and barriers to senior professional positions, even in development organizations (Harbour & Twist, 1996). As a group that is marginalized from global, national, and community power structures, Wilkins (1999) contends that women tend to constitute a target more often than a participant in the production of development communication. Moore (1995) estimated that “gender” made its “first discursive appearance” in development institutions during the 1960s (p. 43). However, it was not until 1975 that women’s contributions to the development process were formally acknowledged by the United Nations (UN). The mid-1970s marked a shift in attention to women in development, along with other critical transitions in the field of development communication (Rogers, 1976; Schramm & Lerner, 1976). A WID strategy advocated including women as an explicit focus in order to achieve development goals (Dagenais & Piché, 1994). In 1975, WID was placed on a global agenda when the UN sponsored a conference in Mexico City to launch the Year of Women. This facilitated the designation of the Decade for the Advancement of Women (1976 until 1985). As a discourse, WID served to organize principles for the production of knowledge about women by states, institutions, and communities (Escobar, 1995, p. 210). WID construed women as actively contributing to society through their economic production and human reproduction (Staudt, 1985). WID also pointed to a need to improve women’s access to education, employment, and political participation (Valdivia, 1996), conditions considered in earlier models of modernization that tended to privilege male constituents. Throughout the Decade for the Advancement of Women however, several scholars recognized limits to using media to promote social change, such as problematic stereotypes of women in media texts, a lack of women’s employment in positions of power in media industries, and poor access to mediated technologies as a source of information, particularly among rural women.\n\nFollowing the Decade for Women, attention to WID gradually shifted toward a concern with gender and development (GAD). This shift from “women” to “gender” resonates with an understanding of gender as a socially constructed category, rather than essentializing sex as a biological condition (Dagenais & Piché, 1994). GAD attempted to position women as active agents of social change situated within social and structural systems of patriarchy and power (Dagenais & Piché, 1994). Steeves (1993) drew attention to critical scholarship about the political economy of communication and participatory approaches to development (Freire, 1983) to propose the creation of a global, imagined feminist community that challenges power relations. A “global feminist” approach to development would critique what appears to be defining gender according to reproductive capacity in a way that promotes motherhood as a universal role for women, rather than celebrating diversity in women’s intentions, experiences, backgrounds, and capabilities.\n\nHooda and Singh (2012) note that the most significant and longest social movement continuing is the movement for the emancipation of women. However, the primary goal for women empowerment is to improve the quality of life of women, but also has deep ramifications in social, economic and political scenario of body polity. It is such contentions that stressing the need to recognize power dimensions within women’s domestic, professional, and social contexts, GAD proponents would advocate interventions designed to change structures or norms.\n\nDevelopment communication activity embodies models of social change that are implemented across political and cultural boundaries wherein, issues of gender, communication, and development are grounded in global structures and processes of power, which condition access to and acquisition of economic and social resources. Watkins (1999) notes that in as much as critical scholars have described the global domination of media systems by Western and corporate agencies, gender also factors into this equation, as the extensive documentation of the tendency of media industries to trivialize women’s roles and concerns has been historically demonstrated (van Zoonen, 1994). Early scholars of development communication did not explicitly address the role of gender in their discussions of media and modernity (Watkins, 1999, p. 48). However, an examination of their work illustrates implicit assumptions made about men’s and women’s roles in the development process. There is thus a need to understand the dynamics contributing to the institutional construction of gender within development communication strategies designed to alleviate social problems. Watkins (1999) cites Steeves (1993) whose summary of feminist scholarship concluded that, among other areas, research is needed “on women’s roles and representations in Third World development communication activities, including funding agency projects” (p. 120). Along with integrating regional, national, and/or organizational perspectives, one specific tool for policymakers is ensuring that gender perspective is incorporated into policies. Regardless whether gender plays a central role in a development communication policy, the policy-making process has to be taken in a deliberate way to address concerns of both women and men. When views of different groups of women and men in policy formation and delivery are taken accordingly, misjudging of the different effects on each group, and the systems and organizations that support them can be avoided.\n\nIn a quest to ensure that the overall legal and policy framework is promoting gender equality, more than just adopting laws that explicitly provide for gender equality can be done. Thus it is essential that all laws and policies reflect gender equality considerations, through a process called gender mainstreaming. Gender mainstreaming is the mechanism to ensure a gender-sensitive approach to policy making.\n\nGender mainstreaming, according to the United Nations, is a globally accepted strategy for promoting gender equality. Mainstreaming is not an end in itself but a strategy, an approach, a means to achieve the goal of gender equality. Mainstreaming involves ensuring that gender perspectives and attention to the goal of gender equality are central to all activities—policy development, research, advocacy/ dialogue, legislation, resource allocation, and planning, implementation and monitoring of programmes and projects. A strong, continued commitment to gender mainstreaming is one of the most effective means for the United Nations to support promotion of gender equality at all levels—in research, legislation, policy development and in activities on the ground, and to ensure that women as well as men can influence, participate in and benefit from development efforts.\n\nUnited Nations Children's Fund or UNICEF also promotes gender sensitivity in its policies. UNICEF gender review ensures that gender is mainstreamed in all UNICEF's projects and programs as well as in its work with partners. UNICEF also ensures that the monitoring and evaluation tools are gender sensitive and that every staff is aware of the UN Code of conduct. UNICEF also uses the Harmonized Gender and Development Guidelines (HGAD) as a tool to promote gender equality and women's empowerment in the development and implementation of projects.\n\nThe communication approach embedded within empowerment models combines the use of appropriate media. This means using a variety of channels ranging from indigenous media, local and international media systems. (Einsiedel 1996).\n\nDefined as the statistical study of populations, Demography is seen as more of a general science that can analyze populations that show change over a period of time. However, in combination with the more specific aspect of communication that has to do with social sciences, demographics can be a significant factor and consequently influencer of Development Communication policy design. Population changes are brought about by birth, migration and mortality. These demographic processes affect the use of resources, nation-building and society formation, and cultural development calling for development communication policies.\n\nResearcher for the Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research Sebastian Klüsener \"investigated how the exchange of ideas and information between people could affect the development of spatial, temporal, and social differences in demographic change. The results highlight that communication plays a much larger role in shaping demographic processes...\" In her discussion of the relationship between communicators and their audiences, Natalie T. J. Tindall, an associate professor in the department of communication at Georgia State University, US, shares \"Demographic categories can still tell us a lot about our social structure, and continue to be useful for macro-level understandings of people and societies.\" It is with this understanding that policies can be designed more tailor-fit to those it is designed for.\nFurthermore, the criterion by which a demography is performed are relevant factors that may act as a roadmap that can guide development communication policy making. This includes but is not limited to age, level of education, gender distribution profile, individual and household income, etc. With the anticipatory objective of policy sciences in relation to crisis or problem solving, the better policy makers get a grasp of how a population is demographically—not just socially—the more sensitive and pro-active policy making as a process can be. When perspectives of an accurate cross-sectional sampling of a population, group, or culture are taken into consideration, the ensuing policies are better geared towards the pre-set objectives. Scalone, Dribe, and Klusener have further found that \"Communication can significantly increase the impact of population-relevant policies and other processes of social change...\" which reinforces the idea that as a science in itself, development communication policy design, becomes more accurate and purposeful when the correct information and variables are holistically integrated.\n\nUNESCO or the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization is one of the multilateral organizations that uses communication planning for policy development. In one of its publications back in 1980 \"Approaches to Communication Planning,\" where it presents some of the most common approaches that scholars, planners and professionals to use. Below are common approaches to communication planning.\n\nThe process approach deals directly with the communication planning process which deals to the theories within the planning process that asserts that planning is the application of theory on how and why they are used. (UNESCO, 1980) The second is it deals with the planning process itself that provide alternative ways of organizing the planning function and process, given different purposes and planning contexts. (UNESCO, 1980) The thrust of the argument is that there are alternatives to the widely known rational/comprehensive planning approach (UNESCO, 1980).\n\nCommunication policy makers are not acting in isolation; they had the full support of scientist and theorists. Communication for Development aims at upholding change in people's attitudes and behavior so as to increase their participation in the development process. Rogers' diffusion of innovations theory is perhaps the most influential theory in the modernization paradigm. The diffusion model gained wide currency in most developing nations and still looms large with the agenda to support 'development' by \"informing the populations about the development projects, illustrating their advantages and recommending that they be supported\"(Servaes, 1996). Communication within the modernization approach is synonymous to information and ignores the importance of feedback in the communication process. Melkote and Steeves (2001) contributed three key qualities of modernization theory and practice: blaming the victim, Social Darwinism, and sustaining class structure of inequality. (1) Blaming the victim is an ideological process, an almost painless circumvention among policy-makers and intellectual all over the world. It is a process of justifying inequality in society by finding defects in the victims of inequality. The policymakers simply blame the despondent lives led by the poor in Third World countries and it is being attributed to the lack of motivation and access to information relating to the various social and economic aspects that they need in order to redeem themselves. (2) Social Darwinists believed that government interventions on behalf of the poor would have disastrous results since they would interfere with the laws of natural selection. The theorist believed that outside interventions to address matters concerning the poor would have dreadful results since these would be interfering with a natural course of events and individual choices and rights. (3) Sustaining class structure of inequality, this is a capitalist interest and quite difficult to overcome. The effect of a focus on individual level cultural deficiencies has been to sustain the status quo within and between unequal societies and thus delay change.\n\nThe systems approach in communication planning deals on how to establish new systems within organizations (UNESCO, 1980). This approach is valuable to planners faced with the task of setting up organizational systems to carry out communication functions (UNESCO, 1980). This approach can also be best applied to problems in the environment, providing planners with an analytical perspective on problem analysis and a range of techniques to use in implementing this perspective (UNESCO, 1980).\n\nNetwork approach (Padovani & Pavan, 2014) is a heuristic framework for theorizing and empirically investigating global communication governance (GCG) environments or networks in supranational settings characterized by plurality and multiplicity of agents, actors and stakeholders, plurality and diversity of cultures, complexity of interactions, plurality of political systems, and multiplicity of policy processes. GCG is a term coined by Padovani & Pavan (2014) to \"indicate the multiplicity of networks of interdependent but operationally autonomous actors that are involved with different degrees of autonomy and power, in processes of formal or informal character, through which they pursue different goals, produce relevant knowledge and cultural practices, and engage in political negotiation while trying to influence the outcome of decision-making in the domain of media and communication in transnational context\" (p. 544). Network approach specifically focuses on the transnational dynamics that govern communication systems.\n\nGovernment officials and policy makers in both developed and developing countries are often confronted with problems for which they have no design solutions. Every problem, country and culture requires a specific approach and seems to go through policy life cycle. Winsemius proposed four phases of policy cycle;\nPhase 1: Recognizing the problem; groups in the society such as government official, lobbyists and countries' leaders recognize the problem, e.g. terrorism, poverty, global warming, and other. The problem is made known to all stakeholders, during this stage the members realized that problem should be tackled through policy.\nPhase 2: Gaining Control over the Problem; at this point, the government start to advance in their mechanisms through the formulation of policies. Policy oriented research is often appointed to scientific institutions, opinion surveys are piloted, and options for improving and solving the problem are accounted.\nPhase 3: Solving the Problem; at this stage, policies, programs and projects are implemented. In most cases, the government will manage all the details of a program by itself but the best scenario is when NGOs and other involved groups participate in the initiatives.\nPhase 4: Monitoring the Problem: At this point the focus is to ensure that the problem is under control and must remain so. This is also the time to think about future policies and to develop public and private partnerships in implementing policies.\n\nPolicy analysis has traditionally followed a linear model – problem identification, policy formulation, legislation, implementation, evaluation, and iteration. However, in solving complex socio-economic problems, a more interdisciplinary approach to societal problems may be more effective particularly for research topics of interdisciplinary nature (e.g., women's studies, environment) or those relevant to policy or strategic issues – drawing from different disciplines to enhance understanding of particular issues or for concept development. The main interest of interdisciplinary research for policy and practice is description, prediction, and ultimately social action. In interdisciplinary research, different disciplines interact and work together at each and every stage of the research process – from conceptualisation, research design and methodology, data analysis and interpretation into policy development.\n\nOngkiko and Flor (2006) argue that a development communication specialist (DCS), at one time or another, also assumes the role of a communication policy analyst in Communication Policy Analysis 'because of his proactive posture and his preoccupation with purpose' (Flor, 1991). Remember that policy sciences anticipates, and looks forward, thus, substantiates the proactive nature of a DCS. In order to fully act out this role, there is a need for a rudimentary knowledge of methods in policy analysis, particularly those related to development communication. Among these methods are discussed below:\n\nCommunication plays a vital role in project coordination, management, knowledge collection and transfer among different project shareholders (Malone & Crowston, 1994; Espinosa & Carmel, 2003, as cited by Gill, Bunker, & Seltsikas, 2012). CTA is a qualitative method that seeks to determine the higher and lower order impacts of specific forms of communication technology on the individual and society (Flor, 1991) prior to the adoption of new technology (Ongkiko & Flor, 2006). The decision to adopt or not depends on the findings of the assessment. CTA is forward-looking and adopts certain value premises on what is socially beneficial or detrimental to society. Being anticipatory in nature, CTA forecasts, at least on a probabilistic basis, the full spectrum of possible consequences of technological advance, leaving to the political process the actual choice among the alternative policies in the light of the best available knowledge of their likely consequences (Brooks, 1976, as cited by Ely, Zwanenberg, & Stirling, 2010). In this case, it should provide an unbiased analysis and information concerning the physical, biological, economic, social, and political effects of [communication] technologies.\n\nIntroduced by Jules Dupuit in 1840s, French engineer and economist, the cost benefit analysis is a methodology used in policy analysis as a way of weighing up projects costs and benefits, to determine whether to go ahead with a project\n\nBeyea (1999), identifies the types of cost analysis used in policy making to aid decision process. These are: Cost-Benefit analysis, Cost-effectiveness, cost-utilization and cost utility.\n\nPathak (n.d.) explains that Social Cost Benefit Analysis (SCBA) is also referred to as Economic Analysis (EA). SCBA or EA is a feasibility study of a project from the viewpoint of a society to evaluate whether a proposed project will add benefit or cost to the society (Ibid.). Ongkiko and Flor (2006) further elaborate that SCBA is a quantitative method which attaches monetary values on social conditions brought by certain communication policies. Flor (1991) explains the monetary value of the social costs is subtracted from the social benefits of a particular program or policy. A positive difference is required for a program or policy to be adjudged as socially beneficial. The purpose of SCBA is to assist public decision-making, not in terms of producing the ideal project but simply by proposing the optimum solution for the community out of the spectrum of possibilities (Dupuis, 1985). Hence, the objective is to determine optimum quantities as a contribution to decision-making or to evaluate the effectiveness of decisions already taken.\n\nThe problematique analysis procedure is a naturalistic approach that seeks to discover the influential factors and describe the structure of problems that exist in communication systems (Librero, 1993; Flor, 1991). The basic purpose of this approach, according to Librero (1993), is to identify the problem rather than the solution. In the process, therefore, the evaluator employing problematique analysis identifies the factors that influence the system, shows the hierarchical relationships of these factors and traces the root causes of the problems of the system. Flor (1991) classified these influential factors as either \"subordinate\" or \"superordinate\", with the former being merely the symptoms of the latter. The identification of the superordinate influential factors or the root causes, then, prevents the recurrence of the problem situation.\n\nAs a policy analysis tool, scenario construction (SC) describes a possible set of future conditions (Moniz, 2006) or hypothetical events that may occur in the future of a particular system (Allen, 1978, as cited by Flor, 1991). It has also been defined as a description of the conditions and events under which some system being studied is assumed to be operating (Kraemer, 1973, as cited by Flor, 1991). Scenarios provide an educated description of one of many possible futures of a system, usually presented at the most optimistic or \"best-case\" state and the most pessimistic or \"worst-case\" state. According to Moniz (2006), the most useful scenarios are those that display the conditions of important variables over time. In this approach, the quantitative underpinning enriches the narrative evolution of conditions or evolution of variables; narratives describe the important events and developments that shape the variables. In terms of innovative methods for policy analysis, the foresight and scenario construction methods can be an interesting reference for social sciences (Moniz, 2006). Citing Allen (1978), Flor (1991) enumerates six steps in scenario construction, namely: (1) defining the system; (2) establishing a time period for the system to operate; (3) defining the external constraints on the environment of the system; (4) defining the elements or events within the system that are likely to increase or decrease the chances of the system's meeting its goals and objectives; (5) stating in probabilistic terms the likelihood of the occurrence of the elements or events; and (6) conducting a sensitive analysis of the results.\n\nThe Policy Delphi, according to Flor (1991), is a variation of the Delphi technique. It is a tool for the analysis of policy issues seeking the involvement and participation of anonymous respondents (usually representatives of the different stakeholders of the policy). Herein, the desirability and feasibility of certain policies are assessed from the points of view of the different stakeholders. Meanwhile, according to Turoff (1975), the policy Delphi aims to create the best possible contrasting insights to resolve a major policy problem. Herein, the decision maker is interested on having a group that will give him options and supporting evidences where he can choose from for him to make a solution, rather than having a group that will produce the decision for him. \"The Policy Delphi is, then, a tool for the analysis of policy issues and not a mechanism for making a decision\" (Turoff, 1975). Turoff (1975) notes the challenging nature of policy Delphi as a means for policy analysis, \"both for the design team and for the respondents\" (Turoff, 1975). As a process, the policy Delphi undergoes the following six phases: (1) Formulating the issue; (2) Citing options; (3) Deciding preliminary stance about the issue; (4) Searching and getting reasons for disputes; (5) Assessing the underlying reasons; (6) Reassessing the options.\n\nAs a methodology, Delphi is used for structuring a group communication process so that the process is effective in allowing a group of individuals, as a whole, to deal with a complex problem. As mentioned, one of the advantages of this technique is the involvement of stakeholders in the analysis which is imperatively instrumental in building a consensus among people who will be/are affected by the policy/project. In the Philippines, this has also been well applied in a study conducted by Dr. Alexander Flor and Dr. Felix Librero in the Southeast Asian Needs Assessment for a Global Open Agriculture and Food University. Recently, Haynes, Palermo and Reidlinger(2016) adopted a Delphi modified technique(James Lind Alliance Approach) in their study in exploring obesity prevention in Australia.\n\nFlor (1991) emphasizes the incorporation of divergent stakeholders in communication policy making. That the State is not a lone actor in the creation of public policies as noted by the various stakeholders identified by Flor (1991), attesting to the fact that State actions do not occur in an empty space. Consumer involvement to policy making can therefore of paramount importance in helping create relevant policies vis-à-vis Gatung’s (1979) postulation of policies promoting \"\"horizontalization\" where exchanges occur between the centers and peripheries \"on more equal terms\".\" In this regard, employing appropriate methods in policy research such would be necessary in ‘light of the diversity of stakeholders involved, there is a possibility to broaden the scope of ‘expertise’ to share opinion across diverse perspectives including local communities’ (Haynes, et al., 2016). Employing the Modified Policy-Delphi technique to crafting an all-inclusive communication policy include the following jusutification:\n\nThe methodology outlined in Haynes et al (2016) paper align with Servaes (1986) reference to the application of Participatory Communication (Research) from a Freirean Perspective by positing that for dialectical and emancipatory process of action and reflection that constitutes the \"process of \"conscientization,\" where an agenda instead of defined by an academic elite and programs enacted by a bureaucratic elite for the benefit of an economic or political elite, participatory research involves people gaining an understanding of their situation, confidence and an ability to change that situation\" (Servaes, 1986). Therefore the notion of Participatory Communication stresses the importance of cultural identity of local communities, and of democratisation and participation at all levels – international, national, local and individual. It points to a strategy, not merely inclusive of, but largely emanating from, the traditional 'receivers'. However one needs not to romanticize the use of such ‘equity’ methods. Sarveas(1986) had outlined the following caution:\n\nSimulations and modelling recently become a useful tool policy analysis involving computers and software in creating a virtual representation of the scenario. Because it offers a systems view of the situation, the analyst or researcher can monitor how the players or variables interacts in the simulated environment. The purposes of simulations may vary to include education, research, design improvement and/or the exploration of the probable effect of different policy decisions.\n\nGuyonne Kalbe(2004) identifies and distinguishes two types of simulation models: macro and micro levels. According to Kalbe, the macro-level is applied mostly for huge sectors of the industries. This macro simulation is usually applied by developed countries in order to assess and understand policy changes. On the other hand, the micro-level is used for a specific company using a sample of population when a need for more precised and focused information is its goal. In contrast to large-scale industries that use the macro-level approach, the micro-level is individualized.\n\nSince problems in policy decisions are not linear by nature, computer simulations provides a concrete view of the situation and how the variables changes pace. These changes in behaviors are integral in developing policies. Steven Bankes(1992) explicates the use of computer simulation in policy decisions wherein models used in policy analysis provide arguments to illuminate options for policy decisions based on the result of computer simulated analysis.\n\nThe methodology has been successfully used in development projects. Thorngate & Tavakoli(2009) mention fields where computer simulations has aided decision makers in assessing the context and solutions to specific problems. Among these include: the climate changes, effects of fiscal changes in economic policies, traffic regulations, health allocation resources, air regulations and crisis management to name a few.\n\nIt is noted that simulations and modelling could be based on artificial data generating process (DGP) or real live data from the environment for analysis. The real data derived from the environment is often called “big data” due to the significantly larger size. This is especially critical in the development communication discussion when there is prevalent use of digital communication technology in low and middle income countries (Taylor & Schroeder, 2015). The technologies in these countries include mobile phones and notebooks. These technologies emit data as a byproduct and have great potential to fill some of the problematic gaps encountered by country policy makers and international development organizations. There is research indicating that the use of big data represents an important complement to country level statistics (Taylor & Schroeder, 2015)., better water quality modelling (Korfmacher, 1998) and improved agricultural development (WESTERVELT, 2001).\n\nThe use of big data can ensure a more accurate measurement of macro-economic data such as price track. The Billion Prices Project (BPP) initiated by MIT’s Sloan School of Management challenges the Argentina government on the misleading inflation index report. It reported by very high inflation rate by the government’s statistical institute which led to the fire of all government officials in the department a few years later. The actual inflation rate after the lay-off eventually stabilizes. The group in MIT decided to investigate what is going on by programming a web scraper to find prices for everyday goods posted on the web by the country’s supermarkets. It scrapes many data on the web and is a financially affordable experiment. The outcome of the result led to an increased suspicion that Argentina’s statistical agency was under pressure to level off inflation rate by higher order authority. The BPP proves to be influential because it produced an inflation index that was more intuitively reflective of perceptions and in real society than the government. It also provides an alternative set of perspective on economic trends which policymakers can use to make prudent finance policy decisions. There is an increasing need for major governments in the world to rethink how development statistics should be collated in order to craft better and finer public policy.\n\nThe simulation approach in policy science is beneficial to policy coherence on the sustainable development goals commonly called SDGs. The SGDs developed by United Nations has integrative nature which is suitable for integrative modelling techniques (Collste et al., 2017). Collste and the researchers have shown in a Tanzania experiment that modelling approach towards SGDs can bring interlinks to the forefront and facilitate a shift to a discussion on development grounded in systems thinking. It brings the multitudes of possible feedback loops that shape a country’s development especially those in developing country. The modelling approach in SDGs maps interlinkages and provide analysis about the resulting behaviour of different policy decisions. It also provide new casual pathways on investments in public projects.\n\nThe policy sciences are highly relevant in environmental impact assessments (EIA) and large-scale environmental change modeling. One example is the use of scenario-making in the study by Garb, Pulver, and VanDeveer (2008). Using storyline driven modeling, they sought to understand the impacts of human activities on natural systems. The said study departs from the increasingly technical approach to scenario analysis. Instead, they drew concept and methodologies from science and technology studies, sociology, and political science. Policy-making is multi-method, and in this case, multi-disciplinary. In this study's framework, scenario is said to be able to \"co-produce knowledge and social order by facilitating collaboration between scientific and technical experts of various types and policy-makers and other non-scientists, as together they 'make sense' of aspects of the natural world and aspects of social interaction (their own and that of societies at large).\" The intertwined relationship between development communication and policy sciences is affirmed because the study recommends including more representatives of social science professionals in global environmental scenario teams, and creating fora with their active involvement, as well.\n\nIn recent years, international-funding agencies such as the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank has recognised the potential of EIA as an opportunity for dialogue between and among project stakeholders (Flor, 2004).\n\nFlor posits that though the EIA is generally regarded as a regularly and management tool, it should also be regarded as a communication process that seeks to achieve mutual understanding—the overall purpose of development communication and for that matter, environmental communication programs. This mutual understanding would translate to societal environmental consciousness.\nDevelopment communication as a discipline grew as a response to some of the most pressing problems of underdevelopment including environment and resources degradation. Environmental communication programs are logically subsumed under development communication.\n\nCiting five case studies of the use of communication and social mobilisation in environmental protection and natural resources management programs, Flor laid out the following lessons learned from the five programs:\n\n\nPolicy science is the bedrock in developing environmental and social movement to address immense issue and predicament regarding environmental depletion and societal development. However, there are three components to be considered when addressing about the issue and talking about development (economy, environment, and society). The most prevalent phenomenon bound to become increasingly imperative through the on-going dual process of economic-cum-ecological globalization wherein the process of constructing policies for sustainable development is essential. The concept of \"policy science\" plays a central role in the development; therefore, the incorporation and synchronization of communication and policy science in tackling the challenges encountered is valuable. The communicators are critical contributors to societal development and environmental sustainability wherein the basis could be aided as the framework for policy analysis and policy construction. At these science-policy interfaces, policymakers, communicators and other key stakeholders are supposed to interact on a constant basis.\n\nDevelopment with emphasis on environmental communication instrument guided by the policy science is a trending topic. Indeed, the consideration of environmental communication in developing policy to handle the enduring distresses act as catalyst for policy makers to unravel protuberant concern. Numerous countries that have developed or are developing when surfacing about the environment is essentially crucial as the development that is being misguided by the policy science will lead to a plethora of environmental crisis. Therefore, policy creation in fostering environmental communication is vital as it has significantly contributed to the totality growth of economy and serve as a platform to raise key questions that positively helpful in decision making. Environmental communication, defined as \"... the medium that we use in constructing environmental problems and negotiating communities different responses to them. The development of environmental policy instruments at the national level has a positive influence on environmental management at other levels and all sectors. However, the requirement in developing \"environmental communication instrument\" is essential to lay the foundation for the framework to understand the environmental communication policy science in stimulating for development into top-down stream from national level. Communication in the environmental sector that is primarily formally regulated by access to information and participation legal acts, has great potential, if an immense variety of well-developed and continuously emerging new environmental communication forms represented by different sectors and target groups, are utilized for the common goal of sustainable development. However, these will become successful when communicators, policy makers, and key stakeholders can effectively convey their messages to each other and build mutual trust based on a set of co-constructed knowledge. Setting policy to promote environmental communication for development is essential. However, understanding environmental communication instruments especially the broad spectrum of technical content and social consideration to lever the consequences should not be deserted.\n\nIn a study by Hilbert, Miles, and Othmer (2009), a five-round Delphi exercise was conducted to show how \"international foresight exercises, through online and offline tools, can make policy-making in developing countries more participatory, fostering transparency and accountability of public decision-making\". Policy science was used to identify future priorities with regard to the 2005–2007 Latin American and Caribbean Action Plan for the Information Society (eLAC2007). The paper presented specific policy guidance, and explained how Policy [null Delphi] methods can be applied to make public decision-making more transparent and accountable, particularly in developing countries. Practical implications drawn include 1) \"the governments' acknowledgement of the value of collective intelligence from civil society, academic and private sector participants of the Delphi and the ensuing appreciation of participative policy-making\" and 2) \"the role that can be played by the United Nations (and potentially by other inter-governmental agencies) in international participatory policy-making in the digital age, especially if they modernize the way they assist member countries in developing public policy agendas\".\n\nIn the book \"Beyond Access and Equity: Distance Learning Models in Asia\", Flor (2002) details the case of SMP Terbuka, a junior secondary education in Indonesia delivered in distance learning mode. This is in consonance with the country's pursuit of the Universalization of Basic Education. In assessing the socio-cultural environment of SMP Terbuka and in determining the policy environment for distance learning, environmental scanning was done. The study also used the problematique method to analyze structural-organizational problems in a distance learning system, along with their causes. Overall, a systems analysis approach was employed where the environment, the stakeholders, the organization cum network, and problem structure were analyzed. Flor proceeds with a proposed communication and advocacy plan for SMP Terbuka aimed at eliciting public support to this alternative education mode. In designing the social marketing and advocacy blueprint, situation analysis was used. This employed four methods, namely, \"environmental scanning, communication resources assessment; review of existing communication strategies; and strategic impact analysis directed at sector stakeholders\".\n\nWalt and Gilson (1994) emphasized the central role of policy analysis in health reforms in developing countries. In their study, they argue that health policy narrowly focuses on the content of reform, and neglects other crucial considerations such as the context that calls for such reform, the processes involved, and the social actors or the stakeholders associated with the reform.\n\nFred Fedler (1989), mentioned in the book, Dilemmas in the Study of Information: Exploring the Boundaries of Information Science, describes the impact of the Information age by referring to media's \"vulnerability to hoaxes\". Fedler contends \"journalists are vulnerable to information and will always be. Journalists cannot determine the truth to the stories they publish, nor check every details. They receive too many stories, and a single story may contain hundreds of details\". In the same vein, this is what majority of the specialists posits as the information explosion.\n\nNow more than ever, information has exceeded in millions of gigabytes. Technology has brought people around the world to be confronted with so much information that utilization of this information has now become an issue. Dr Paul Marsden of the Digital Intelligence Today defines information overload as \"when the volume of potentially useful and relevant information available exceeds processing capacity and becomes a hindrance rather than a help\" (Marsden, 2013).\n\nDr. Alexander Flor, in his article on the information wastage ratio, argues that although information can be consumed anytime and seldom has expiration date;\n\n\"Research information is generated for a particular purpose, a specific user and a definite problem in mind. If such information is unavailable to the right person, at the right time and at the right place, then we conclude that the effort exerted to generate this amount of information has been wasted\".\n\nOne approach that Flor has postulated to establish the underutilization is his information wastage ratio. The ratio takes into consideration the concepts of information generation (IG) and information utilization (IU) expressed as \"wastage ratio that is equivalent to one minus the amount of information utilized divided by the quantity of information generated\", thus:\n\nWr = 1 – IU/IG\n\nFlor's formula accounts for the information deficit especially, among the Third World countries, where information utilization is constrained by factors such as \"low literacy, limited media access and availability, low computer literacy, low levels of education and unsound communication policy\".\nThe framework that Flor presented is best described as \"the communication revolution contributes to the quantity of information generated thus, information explosion happens\". Since the relationship of the two phenomena is reciprocal, \"the quantity of information, the quality of information and the information overload determine the information wastage in an information society\".\nThe outcome of this wastage ratio provides support for the initiation of communication policies to ensure full utilization of information in varied fields.\n\nIt is a complex task to achieve effectiveness in development policy especially in rural areas. It involves a range of stakeholders who need to demonstrate coordinated action. Sunitiyoso et al. (2012) claim that holistic thinking is needed to solve public policy problems which requires collaborative efforts across different organizational boundaries. The government through its administration must show vigor and integrity to implement these programs. Development policy makers must consider providing education and sustained training in order to materialize the programs provided to the beneficiaries. Sustained training does not only rely to ICT, it also needs emotional quotient to motivate beneficiaries to get involved and develop a sense of ownership. President Julius K. Nyerere once stated that the people must participate in considering, planning, and implementing their development (in Tanganyika African National Union, 1971 ). Therefore development can only be achieved when people develop themselves. This has been realized by not only socialist and communist nations, but also by capitalist nations such as Singapore and South Korea. Self- development is usually accompanied by social mobilization by political parties, non- government organizations and workers from the academe.\n\nScholars have proposed categories for the analysis of changes present in the research and policy sectors. What generates lack of accord between the effectiveness of development communication policy is the unrealized link between the importance of research and development to policy making. As compared to Europe, the United States and Latin America, the challenges of knowledge and technology transfer have been solved in the forefront of attention in economic, social and industrial policy.\n\nThe \"praxis\" or the marriage of research and practice, according to Flor (1991) is needed to address the pressing social issues that are pestering the society. However, there are factors that delay its realization. According to UNCTAD Virtual Institute (2006), there are still a huge communication gap between researchers and policy makers. On the side of the policy makers, the information on ongoing researchers barely reaches to them. The researchers, on the other hand, lack the awareness and the knowledge on the most important policy that could contribute so much in the research. Here are some common reasons for the wide gap between the two:\nPolicy makers turn primarily to international organizations, international research institutes or their own technical experts or diplomatic missions to obtain information and analysis as policy inputs. Local universities and research institutes may have the capacity but are often not able to engage in cooperation with policy makers.\nPolicy-makers consider the credibility of researchers and research outputs a key requirement for cooperation.\nGovernments lack systematic procedures regarding which research institutions to turn to, and when and how to establish contact with researchers.\nData required for informed research may be non-existent or inaccessible.\nHence, the joint UNCTAD-WTO-ITC workshop on trade policy analysis workshop has forwarded these recommendations for both the research institutions and policy making bodies:\n\nAs a researcher:\nTry to disseminate information about current research projects as widely as possible:\nInvite concerned government officials to conferences or presentations of research, or organize specific events bringing together policy makers and researchers\nSend notes and abstracts to relevant ministries\nDistribute research to government agencies but also to NGOs, which might also be among its users. Be ready to discuss work in progress with policy-makers after initial contacts have been established.\nTry to get in direct contact, for example with negotiators, by providing them with short notes/abstracts of relevant research findings.\nEstablish contact and build a long-term cooperation with relevant ministries. The start can be facilitated by having a \"champion\" in the ministry. However, the researcher/research institution may need to avoid being too closely identified with a \"champion\", and hence, depending too much on the evolution of the \"champion's\" status.\nAccess to high-ranked officials at ministries can be facilitated by involving higher-level representatives at universities (deans, vice-chancellors…) in the establishment and maintenance of contacts. However, more decentralized cooperation can also be productive if he procedures within the university tend to be very hierarchical and bureaucratic.\nAs a policy maker:\nInvolve policy-makers in research. Policy-makers who are consulted at the initial stages of a research project tend to be more open since they can actively participate and hence have a stake in shaping the research questions, and thereby take \"ownership\" of the research as well. Regular interaction during the research project can help adjusting the questions researched and the tools used to the needs of policy makers.\nMake sure that your research addresses issues of policy relevance to your country by approaching permanent missions in Geneva which can act as facilitators by providing information regarding current policy-relevant research questions.\n\nThere has been shift of policy-making from academic sources of development relations between government, academia and industry, and scholars often refer this as “triple helix model”. Henry Etzkowitz defines it as a “a spiral model of innovation that captures multiple reciprocal relationships at different points in the process of knowledge capitalization.” Etzkowitz and Melo (2004) stated that recognizing that university is the source of new knowledge, industry is where the practice ground for technology and development and the supporting role of government as policy makers. The importance of collaboration is a successful model in any project management. More so when a holistic approach is applied in policy development, it may be a solution to address the complexity of policy implementation as all stakeholders are required to participate beginning from the conceptualization, planning, policy formulation and implementation.\n\nNora Quebral (1971) defines development communication as \"the art and science of human communication applied to the speedy transformation of a country and the mass of its people from poverty to a dynamic state of economic growth that makes possible greater social equality and larger fulfilment of the human potential\".\n\nThe fundamental characteristic that distinguishes development communication from traditional views of mass communication is its purposive nature. According to Flor, policies, being guidelines, imply that certain directions are already assumed. Development communication and the policies sciences stem from the same rationale, which is the need for actively applying knowledge form and principles of the social sciences in order to solve large-scale societal problems under the premise of social change.\n\nMelafopulos (2008) presented two modes or approaches to development communication: the monologic mode and the dialogic mode. The monologic mode is linked to the standpoint of 'diffusion' following the one-way model of communication. The purpose of this mode is to disseminate information and messages to persuade its recipients about the intended change. In short, communication is positioned to (1) inform and (2) persuade. In this model, the feedback is enhanced and canned allowing the sender to refine its persuasive message. On the other hand, dialogic mode is related with the participatory paradigm which follows a two-way communication model. It seeks to create a conducive environment where stakeholders are involved in all stages of the project from the definitions down to the implementation of solutions. This model seeks to make use of communication (1) to assess and (2) to empower. The use of dialogic communication paves the way for building of trust and understanding which is the key to participation and eventually for the empowerment of the people in the grassroots.\n\nAchieving development in the community is collaboration between different stakeholders. Development communication believes that in order to have genuine development, that desire to improve and uplift their lives must come from the grassroots level; it must come from the people. Development communication empowers the people to believe in themselves that they can do something in order to alleviate their standard of living. In their book, Introduction to Development Communication, Ongkiko and Flor (2006) claimed that Development communication entails motivating individuals and groups of people such as farmers, fisherfolks, workers, housewives, and the youth to change their habits, their lifestyles, their way of thinking and their way of doing things. This further proves that development communication is not just merely providing facts and information instead its goal is to persuade the people to become an active participant in the achievement of their goals.\n\nPolicy sciences refer to the scientific study of policies and policy making. Policy refers to a cluster of decisions with a particular purpose and audience in mind. The word \"science\" is used to suggest the use of empirical data gathered from systematic observation. The plural form (sciences) is used to underscore the interdisciplinary nature of this field (Allen, 1978). Policy science was conceived in order to cope-up with the fast changing landscape of our society. Because of these changes they called, \"turbulent field\", the traditional social science methodology was already considered inadequate in solving today's societal problems (Allen, 1978). The goal of policy sciences is to develop and provide concrete solution to the rising problems brought by technological progress.\n\nPolicy sciences are concerned with knowledge of and in the decision processes of the public and civic order. Knowledge of the decision process implies systematic, empirical studies of how policies are made and put into effect. When knowledge is systematic, it goes beyond the aphoristic remarks that are strewn through the \"wisdom\" literature of the past.\n\nDevelopment communication and policy sciences are two essential elements in resolving recurring dilemma especially in the third world societies.\n\nIn Flor's \"Developing Societies in the Information Age: A Critical Perspective\", he mentioned the 2000 Okinawa Summit of G7/G8 nations that described information and communications technology or ICT as \"one of the most potent forces in shaping the Twenty-first Century...fast becoming a vital engine of growth for the world economy\". The summit also decried the existence of a digital divide between rich and poor nations and that the major challenge posed today is to bridge this widening chasm. The Information Age, the so-called third era of human civilization is a pervasive social phenomenon, a global environment. In the Information Age, capital becomes less important than information. In fact, information becomes the \"primary resource\". There is an observed global shift in resources of power from land, labor and capital to information. The change is more on the nature of resources that are being controlled.\n\nAs Flor stated, \"informatization comes with the Information Age. All aspects of society – politics, culture, business and economy – have become increasingly information-oriented. Information gives rise to economies and societies wherein information, naturally, becomes the dominant commodity or resource. Concomitant to informatization is the globalization of the economy. The communications or information revolution has tended to shrink the size of the world, figuratively. Instant communication between two persons situated at opposite sides of the globe is a common occurrence. Distance no longer serves as a minor factor in communication.\"\n\nAn \"information society\" should be differentiated from \"Information Age\". An information society refers to a social system, meanwhile, the Information Age refers to an era in human civilization, a worldwide phenomenon. It is possible for people to live in an information age but not in an information society. Observations have also pointed that the trend towards information societies can be found in the Third World. For example, in Asia, certain trends that are indifferent to political developments show that Asia is moving towards that direction. These trends include: the growing demand for mobile devices and software, broadband, Wi-Fi, wi-max services, and even online educational programs.\n\n\"Control is achieved through communication. Norbert Weiner, the father of cybernetics, equated communication with control and observed that it is negatively related to entropy, the tendency for all systems towards breakdown. This function or relationship is magnified in the Information Age.\" Therefore, in the Information Age, there seems to be a positive correlation between information and power, between communication and power. The logical consequence of this is the gravitation of special interest groups to the communication/information industry and the mad scramble for communication resources. Those who will gain access to more resources would understandably hold more political and economic power. They may, in turn, perpetuate this condition by determining enabling societal structures. According to Flor, information, traditionally defined, is that which contributes to the reduction of uncertainty. Although technically accurate, the definition neglects the social dimension of information. \"It is the social function which adds value to information and which gives those who possess it advantage over those who do not. Thus, information should be regarded first and foremost as a resource. As in the case of other resources, there is a tendency for other exploitative groups to hoard information and to use it to further their interests. Information nowadays is associated with influence and power. It is now treated as a dominant commodity under the control and manipulation of the elite.\" He also noted that \"Information resources should contribute more towards equality than exploitation, towards harmony than conflict, towards complementarities than dominance, towards integration than segregation, towards participation than elitism, towards indigenous development than dependency, and towards convergence than divergence.\"\n\nThe availability of information may be a function of the availability of mass media, new media and other channels of information. Availability of communication media is obviously a prerequisite for access. For communities wherein media are relatively unavailable, access to communication media is hampered to a considerable degree.\n\nIn contrast, development communication can also be key towards more democratic societies. Democracy has been a prevailing philosophy in many countries for the recent years. However, until today, how democratic institutions affect human well-being, particularly people’s health is still argued. Existing evidences are not robust or strong in providing critical insights into the significance of democratic institutions on achieving better life expectancies and reducing mortalities (Besley and Kudamatsu, 2006). Life expectancies have increased dramatically and mortalities have significant reduced over the years. Such progress has been mostly attributed to increasing income per capita (Li and Zhu, 2006), improved medical technologies and interventions (Papageorgiou et al., 2007) and strengthened global collaborations (Elobu et al., 2014, Chu et al., 2014), among others. Previous literature has also favoured more democratic governments in maximizing health systems performance; and thereafter, improving health outcomes. In this view, health outcomes are better achieved because governments are controlled by the majority, leaders are more accountable for the benefit of all rather than minor groups of society, and mechanisms for selecting competent leaders to implement policies are deemed stronger. Despite evidence on its significance, some have still argued that democracy can only be successful in effecting positive impacts only if proper conditions are met. For example, the 1983 Polish health system has moved from a communist model without general practitioners to where clinicians in polyclinics provided free healthcare. The former system was then perceived to be better because the latter created more opportunities for bribery; hence, increasing inequitable access to healthcare (Scully, 2007). Recently, most health systems have transitioned along a continuum of private or market health systems similar to the United States and a public or state health systems similar to the United Kingdom (Chernichovsky, 1995). Such transitions may also be highly attributable to transitions in political states. In a market/private-based health system similar to the United States health system, medical care is provided by private physicians and by private and public hospitals and patients have free choice of physicians. In addition, most people receive health insurance coverage through their workplace and health insurance is provided by multiple third-party insurers (Chernichovsky, 1995). On the other hand, planned/public-based health systems such as in the United Kingdom expects that healthcare is a right (Chernichovsky, 1995). As such, health demands are provided directly through budgeting and management of providers. Low and middle income countries (LMICs) are placed in between these continuum. In most LMICs, various health system reforms and transitions have already been done. Despite such transitions, they are still faced with poorer health outcomes and health statuses that are far beyond health targets. Hence, is it really democracy that matters or does it simply serve as proxy for societal and political progress? Some argued that proper conditions must first be met for such gains of democracy to be achieved. Development communication can serve as a tool to ensure the country's visions are aligned, a step towards creating such proper conditions.\n\nIn the Information Age, technological growth is a crucial driving force behind economic progress, citizen engagement and job creation. Information and communication technologies (ICTs) are shaping many aspects of the world's economies, governments and societies. Developing countries, too, recognize the importance of engaging various stakeholders to harness the transformative power of ICTs to provide more efficient services, catalyze economic development and strengthen social networks. When done properly and implemented effectively, ICT infrastructure investment and policy reform can empower poverty reduction and shared prosperity.\n\nThe World Bank Group's Information and Communication Technology (ICT) sector strategy, which was adopted in 2012, intends to help developing countries make use of the potential of ICTs to improve the delivery of public services; drive innovations and productivity gains; and improve competitiveness. Under the strategy, the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) focus on three priorities: (1) \"Transformation\", by making developments more open and accountable and improving service delivery; (2) \"Connectivity\", by scaling up affordable access to broadband including for women, disabled citizens, disadvantaged communities and people living in remote and rural areas; and (3) \"Innovation\", by developing competitive IT-based industries and fostering ICT innovation with a focus on job creation.\n\nNascent technologies, such as virtual reality and artificial intelligence, are also set to reshape the development landscape. The United Nations, through its Virtual Reality Series Project, has tapped virtual reality to build platforms for advocacy, awareness, and fundraising. Its VR production titled Clouds over Sidra earned accolades for shedding light on the conditions of some 84,000 Syrian refugees in Jordan's Za'atari camp. HTC, developer of the Vive VR system, also supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals through its \"VR for Impact\" program, which seeks to \"create a pathway to global peace and prosperity together\". In terms of policy implication, the immersive experience brought about by VR is expected \"to elevate the voices of those who often do not have a say, bringing peoples' voices directly into the decision making process\".\n\nThe rapid transformation of technology has revolutionized the way we communicate. As a result, more and more people are getting \"wired\", which means connected to the Internet. The explosion of information creates an interconnected global village where everyone can easily connect and transact business in a flick of a second. This explosion of information however has widen the gap between the information rich and the information poor creating Digital Divide. IGI Global defines digital divide as \"the inequalities between groups in terms of access of knowledge of the use of ICT\". Groups or communities that can afford technologies and has full access to the internet are the information rich while the underprivileged are the information poor.\n\nIn his book \"Developing Societies in the Information Age\",Alexander Flor elucidated that digital divide emerges from an information dependent social environment. He further emphasized that \"the divide is further aggravated by domineering system between the haves and the have-nots\". In a study conducted by Dr. Alexander Flor from 1983–1986 on the widening gap and its implications on the agricultural sector, he found out that \"the information rich gets richer while the information poor gets poorer.\"\n\nAlthough the discourse of development communication may recognize the importance of considering gender in the process of social change, organizational structures and norms may inhibit the successful implementation of projects. Despite the considerable attention directed toward women in health, nutrition, and population projects, women's conditions have not improved. This failure should not, however, be attributed as a direct consequence of development communication. Rather, the problematic conditions of women, along with the interventions designed to resolve them, need to be situated within a broader context of discourse and practice that privileges individual consumption and structural privatization in strategies for social change (Watkins, 1999, 63).\n\nHooda and Singh (2012) note that many feminist scholars recognize that everyday women's participation in the process of communication is essential. Involvement by the women to state their opinions in the institutions and systems that govern their lives is not only for recognition that participation is a basic human right, but also for a redistribution of political power in favor of disadvantaged groups. Involvement in decision-making is primarily about confronting the hegemonic structures of power—locally, nationally and globally (Sheth, 1997). It is a political action, a political struggle, a struggle that is not only among states, but also among people. Indeed, Wong (2012) shows why a discourse on gender matters in ICT for Development. Wong (2012) cites Resurreccion (2011) who stresses that the access to, and the use of, ICTs is gender-shaped in that gender influences how the benefits, costs and risks of ICTs are distributed between, and within, women and men. As noted by Kothari (1985), communications is not taken as informatics (alone), but as politics on issues of empowerment.\n\nInformation and communication, food security and nutrition, and gender equality are closely linked dimensions of rural development, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)-Dimity Project, 2011. The vital contribution of women to the agricultural sphere in developing societies cannot be overemphasized. It's critical to give rural women access to the same resources and opportunities as men in order to be more productive. To achieve enhanced productivity and better performance, women have to be provided access to information, knowledge and decision-making. Hooda and Singh (2011) however opine that with regard to the impact of technologies on women, there has been a tendency on the part of governments and development agencies to treat technologies as neutral, value-free, without taking into account the social, environmental and economic effects of the technology being introduced. A common assumption with respect to technology is that the simple existence of technology itself will advance competence and will thus fetch empowerment and reimbursement to the women. Wong (2012) illustrates that restricted access to assets, gender-biased institutional arrangements, and unfavourable social structures have reduced women's capability to draw on ICTs in tackling climate change. According to Hooda and Singh (2011), focus on ICT competence and capability compromises concerns related to equity. In any case, social equity requires assurance to women's equal opportunity. Therefore, women's equality needs to be integrated as a cornerstone of any development and communication strategy. In addressing these limitations, Wong (2012) outlines four digital empowerment proposals that may make 'ICT climate change' interventions more gender-sensitive:\n\n(1) Contextualise gender mainstreaming: gender mainstreaming helps integrate gender analysis into ICT policies. It acknowledges that men and women perceive and receive information differently, and that this requires diverse approaches to adaptation. However, the attempt to reposition women and girls as 'ecocarers' is problematic because this fails to capture their protective, as well as their destructive, role in relation to natural resources. Without addressing the unequal power relations between women\n\nand girls, e-adaptive practices can also help reproduce the intergenerational equalities.\n\n(2) Strengthen governance: crafting new and reforming old, institutional arrangements is essential to improve gender inclusion. Women only interventions are sometimes necessary to empower previously excluded women to engage in ICT related decisions. However, poor and powerless men should also have their say in climate change policies.\n\n(3) Develop gender-sensitive funding mechanisms: securing adequate funding to support ICT interventions is crucial to gender empowerment. Yet, targeting women by microcredit projects risk putting an additional financial burden on them, and that needs serious reconsideration.\n\n(4) Recognise agency-structure dynamics: women are active agents, but they are socially constrained from engaging in ICT related decisions. Women's preferences, institutional arrangements and politics need to be taken into account in order to tackle digital exclusion.\n\nWong (2012) believes that taking the outlined four proposals are useful for development agencies, governments and NGOs to improve the gendered outcomes from use of ICTs in response to an issue as climate change. Thus, communicating from a gender perspective is important for fighting poverty and for supporting the economic empowerment of women. Women who are frequently the most disadvantaged gender in society are central to development, yet they have very little voice in the process of development planning. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Gender Equality and Women's Empowerment reports that \"while women make up more than 40 percent of the agriculture labor force, only 3 to 20 percent are landholders. In Africa, women-owned enterprises make up as little as 10 percent of all businesses. In South Asia, that number is only 3 percent. And despite representing half the global population, women comprise less than 20 percent of the world's legislators.\"\n\nAdvancing gender equality and women's empowerment is a vital key in utilizing human resources and capital on an enormous scale. According to the World Bank, \"\"countries with greater gender equality are more prosperous and competitive\".\" For communities to grow, gender equality policy and strategies have to be developed and implemented. Women must be provided access to information, technology, and education. They must have equal rights and equal opportunities as entrepreneurs, wage earners, and leaders of our society. Promoting gender equality is a profitable investment we can make to advance women development.\n\nSince its early inception, development communication has been widely utilized by many regions of the world owing its strategic direction of alleviating the lives of the poor by extending knowledge and information to a number of projects and programs intended to create a sustainable life. Hence, development communication practice in various areas of the world yielded a number of policy integrations reflecting its core objectives for an inclusive development. True to its definition, development communication, according to S.T. Kwame Boafo, author of the article 'Utilizing Development Communication Strategies in African Societies: A Critical Perspective', \"is the application of modem and traditional communication technologies to aid and enhance the process of socio-economic, political and cultural change. It is the planned, conscious and systematized use of communication strategies and processes to bridge informational and attitudinal gaps and to establish or sustain a climate that favors the process of change and development.\" However, this definition itself does not lend the idea that change immediately follows. Hence, Boafo articulated further that the definition above \"does not imply that communication or information per se can effect development or change without an integrated and consistently pursued national development policy.\" Therefore, it is vital that development communication should be an integral element in the formulation of national policies so as to utilize its full potential.\n\nChrist commissioned the Apostles to preach the Good News to the whole world, a mission extended to all Christians today. Communication therefore is part of following Christ. Being committed to spread the Good News, the Catholic Church has always been at the forefront of communications – from oral preaching, catechesis, personal friendships, small or big groups gatherings (openly or in secret where Christians are persecuted, even in present times), manual copying in papyrus or parchments scrolls, artwork, architecture, oral traditions, printing, theaters, tri-media and online, etc.\n\nFor academic studies within the Catholic setting, Pontifical Universities in Rome offer Bachelor's, Licentiate and Doctoral courses on Church communications, lasting three to six years.\n\nThe following guidelines, and communication as a whole, should, as Prof. Flor states, \"be employed for the service of others” (Chapter 3, p. 7).\n\nCatholic Church Communications at the universal Church level: The Pope's Roman Curia\n\nThe Roman Curia, or the Pope's central administrative office, has a Secretariat for Communication, which coordinates all the media realities in the Vatican:\nPontifical Council for Social Communications\nHoly See Press Office\nVatican Internet Service\nVatican Radio\nVatican Television Centre\nL’Osservatore Romano\nVatican Printing Press\nPhoto Service\nVatican Publishing House\n\nThis setup is replicated in various degrees in countries all over the world. Communications policies are left to the regional, national or parish levels, rather than having a unified policy for the Catholic Church in the whole world.\n\nMany documents, in the form of reflections or guidelines, have been published on different topics related with communications. In this website, one document dates back to 1936, an Encyclical Letter of Pope Pius XI, called \"Vigilanti Cura\", manifesting his thoughts on the “Motion Picture” as it affects the moral and religious life of Christians.\n\nExample of Catholic Church Communications Policies at the Regional Level: CELAM\n\nThe Consejo Episcopal LatinoAmericano (CELAM), is the umbrella organization of 22 Episcopal Conferences (groups of Latin American and Caribbean Catholic Bishops, usually by country). Its office is based in Bogotá, Colombia, and has a Department of Communications and Press.\n\nWhile no Comunications Policy is posted on CELAM’s website (nor is any retrievable online), there is a link to a presentation of the Department’s four programs. Specific objectives contained therein could be considered as general directives indicating what the different lower levels of Church organization should undertake (my own translation from Spanish follows):\nCommon Communication Efforts in Communion and Dialogue towards Fraternity\nFormation and Expression in Communication for the Development of the Culture of Encounter and the Announcing the Good News\nCommunication for the Transformation of Reality Towards the Fullness of Life of our Peoples\nInter-institutional Communion and Dialogue (within the Church)\n\nCELAM is situated at a very broad level, covering part of North America (Mexico), the whole of Central and South America, and the Caribbeans. It is quite typical for Church documents at a high level, to focus heavily on principles, objectives and generalized directives; meanwhile, the concrete communications policies would be left to the local levels.\n\nExample of Catholic Church Communications Policies at the National Level: USCCB Social Media Guidelines\n\nThe United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) \"is an assembly of the hierarchy of the United States and the U.S. Virgin Islands who jointly exercise certain pastoral functions on behalf of the Christian faithful of the United States. As its Introduction states, “These guidelines are offered as a synthesis of best practices. They include material compiled from church entities, for-profit corporations, and non-profit organizations”, presented as an aide to come up with local or organizational communications policies when it comes to the social media.\n\nIt begins with guiding principles, quoting from Pope Francis: “Communication is a means of expressing the missionary vocation of the entire Church; today the social networks are one way to experience this call to discover the beauty of faith, the beauty of encountering Christ. In the area of communications too, we need a Church capable of bringing warmth and of stirring hearts\".\n\nSocial media is a powerful instrument, changing the way people communicate. Pope Benedict XVI says that the Church has to be involved in social media to advance its mission of spreading the Good News, at the same time encouraging respect and dialogue, true friendship. In addition, the Church encourages a responsible use of these social media, in the midst of opportunities and challenges when it comes to visibility, the community and accountability.\n\nThe USCCB document tries to cover all the areas in social media, suggesting the following elements to be included when parishes or other Church organizations develop guidelines: define boundaries, include examples of codes of conduct, define instructions, recommendations on dealing with offenders, providing trusted sites, and reminding administrators of their broad audience. Guidelines are also provided for organizational and personal sites, and social networking with minors.\n\nExample of Catholic Church Communications Policies at the Local Level: St. Mary Magdalene Catholic Church, in Simpsonville, South Carolina, USA\n\nThese policies pertain to the parish’s:\n\nInternal Communication, such as:\nMass Announcements\nWelcome/Newcomer Information\nMailings to parishioners\nEmail communications\nParish bulletin\nParish events for parishioners\nDistributed materials\n\nand External Communication, such as:\nMarquee on the parish sign\nMedia interviews\nParish events open to public\nParish website\nPress releases\nSocial media\nCommunity Solicitations\n\nBeing a parish that serves the churchgoers, St. Mary Magdalene Catholic Church tries to make clear the procedures that would make the communications processes as efficient as possible. The document is quite detailed, allowing the reader (whether a parish employee, or the public) to know exactly how to proceed in each scenario.\n\nInternational communication, the intellectual field that deals with issues of mass communication at a global level, is sometimes also called development communication. This field includes the history of the telegraph, submarine communication cables, shortwave or international broadcasting, satellite television, and global flows of mass media. Today it includes issues of the Internet in a global perspective and the use of new technologies such as mobile phones.\n\nRisk communication originated in the United States where environmental clean-up efforts were implemented through legislation. The terms 'risk communications' and 'risk management' were first used by William Ruckelshaus, the first administrator of the U.S. 'Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), which was established in the 1970s. Risk communication includes management decision risks, implementation risks and risks related to existing environmental, health, political, or social circumstances. For instance, in the health sector, risk communication addresses pandemics, natural disasters, bioterrorism, resource contamination, etc. Definitions of \"risk\" include:\n\"The identification and analysis, either qualitative or quantitative, of the likelihood of the occurrence of a hazardous event overexposure, and the severity of injury or illness that may be caused by it.\" —American National Standard for Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems (ANSI/AIHA Z10 – 2005 ):\n\"...the probability that a substance or situation will produce harm under specified conditions. Risk is a combination of two factors: (1) the probability that an adverse event will occur and (2) the consequences of the adverse event.\"—The Framework for Environmental Health Risk Management (Presidential/Congressional Commission on Risk Assessment and Risk Management, 1997):\n\"...the probability (or likelihood) that a harmful consequence will occur as a result of an action.\"—The Safety Professionals Handbook (Fields 2008 ):\n\nRisk management was described as:\nThe evaluations and decisions that go into coping with risks (Lundgren and McMakin, 2004)\nPlanning for a crisis, which should involve the removal of risks and allow an organization, a society, or a system adequate control(Fearn-Banks, 2007) and\nFactors that combat crises with the objective of minimizing damage. (Combs, 1999)\n\nRisk communications involves important information for managing risks, both from authorities to those at risk and vice versa.\n\nDevelopment communication benefits from risk communications when the latter clarifies the risks of development (or lack thereof).\n\nDevelopment in the community has been observed critically not only the stakeholders but also the public themselves. Being one the recipients of the community projects, the public has been eyeing the government on the implementation of the development projects they are implementing. Part of the analysis in the organization is by analyzing how the communication in an organization works. The two are related as discussed as follows:\n\nIn the Philippines, the Medium Term Development Plan for 2004–2010 of the National Economic Development Authority states, \"the successful implementation of the plan rests on the support of all sectors of society—the legislature, the judiciary, the local government units, the media and all sectors of society\" (NEDA, 2004).\n\nIn the context of Carnoy and Samoff (1990), they believed that education has great importance as part of the means of achieving social transformation. They emphasized that \"appropriate ideas, values, and worldviews will be developed so that from the process of scholarship there emerges a new person—not simply with skills, but also someone with an understanding of his or her own role in the world\".\n\nMore than analyzing how the process of the implementation will run through, it is also relative to note who will deliver the message pertaining to the development project. This is where the role of communication takes place. As mentioned by NEDA, media played an important role in the process of the delivery of development projects. With the wide range of power of media to influence and to transmit information, it has the capability to reach the public connecting to the government and vice versa.\n\nCommunication is pervasive in the process of development. Communication includes mass media, telecommunications, information and communication technologies (ICTs), organized interpersonal communication, and all resources used by a society to enable information to flow within it. It has for its aims to inform, educate, persuade, entertain, motivate people and induce behavior change that contributes toward national development.\n\nAccording to Fraser and Restrepo-Estrada (2001):\n\"Communication succeeds when it is an integral part, from the very beginning, of a development programme, playing a full role during the identification of the problems and priorities, as well as during the detailed planning, implementation, and evaluation… communication needs clear objectives, identification of different audience groups... careful message design... and monitoring and feedback.\"\n\nAs mentioned, delivery of development project can be achieved should proper communication will be used. In attaining such, an organization implementing the development project should consider the system to be used.\nAn organization is where a system is being implemented. Its structure varied depending on the goals of the company, the image it portrays, and the quality it aims to achieve. Being a member of an organization, one has to know how the organization works.\n\nThis aim in knowing the technical-know-how within the organization leads to the concept of 'Organization Theory'. Later it becomes a 'social science discipline' which refers to \"a body of thinking and writing that describes, explains and influences what goes on in organization\". This leads to making this discipline as basis for exploring 'management and leadership theory' that enables the scholars to understand how an 'organization theory' works in the application of a certain system.\n\nFurther, organizational theory (OT), according to Barzilai (2016), is the \"study of organizations for the benefit of identifying common themes for the purpose of solving problems, maximizing efficiency and productivity, and meeting the needs of stakeholders\".\n\nThus, development communication interweaves with policy science and organizational theory for one reason: Development projects require an organization as deciding body in crafting policy leading to the attainment of the project and as implementor of the projects.\n\nTo affirm the interface, I reviewed the notions of development communication and policy sciences. Development education, a related and a younger discipline is shortly discussed. I also highlight the similarities of these fields.\n\nQuebral (2012) redefines development communication as \"the science of human communication linked to the transition of communities from poverty in all its forms to a dynamic overall growth that fosters equity and the unfolding of individual potential\" (p. 9).\n\nMeanwhile, Guru (2016) explains that development communication \"(1) provides a conceptual and practical framework in accelerating development in all spheres of life; (2) includes the integration of planned, organized, and specific communication package into planning, programming, and implementation; (3)facilitates the flow of development education among various stakeholders; and (4) empowers marginalized individuals, groups, and organizations\" (p. 101).\n\nI thought that development education is just a function or a subset of development communication just like information, motivation, persuasion, among others. In fact, it is discipline in its own right that started in the 1990s. Bourn (2015) describes it as \"an education approach that (1) responds to issues of development, human rights, justice, and world citizenship; (2) presents an international development and human rights perspective within education in various parts of the world; (3) promotes voices and viewpoints of those who are excluded from an equal share in the benefits of international human development; (4) connects and compares development issues and challenges all over the world; (5) provides opportunities for people to reflect on their international roles and responsibilities with regard to issues of equality and justice in human development; and (6) narrates a new story of human development\" (p. 47).\n\nOn the other hand, policy sciences or policy studies basically refer to the policy cycle, which involves \"policy making, policy implementation, policy evaluation, and policy feedback\" (Flynn and Asquer, 2017, p. 40). Originally, it is a function of governance and, therefore the domain of government officials. However, with democracy as a form of government in many nations, it has also become the domain of the governed, hence, the term public policy. Most available literature on policy studies quote the definition developed by Hence Thomas Dye as \"whatever governments choose to do or not to do.\"\n\nHowever, Chakrabarty and Chand (2016) argue that \"[t]here cannot be a universal definition of policy although one can endure a near universal definition by highlighting its technical character\" (p. 3). With these, they characterize Dye's definition as \"functional in character\" and contend that \"governments are not at all free to choose because their choice is context-dependent and governed by the ideology they adhere to\" (p. 4).\n\nThey raise the limitations Dye's definition: (1) does not reflect or represent the ideological goals of the government; (2) does not reflect the critical role of institutions; and (3) does not provide enough inputs to conceptualize public policy as an executive device and as a marker of ideology.\n\nAfter presenting the etymology of \"public\" and \"policy\", they propose a layman's definition through an acronym: POLICY. PO stands for periodically organized, which suggests that policies are \"constantly reinvented and transformed in accordance with changing social, economic, and political realities\". To add, LI means legally induced, which suggests it cannot dispense \"constitutions and other legal instruments in shaping policy.\" Lastly, CY means calculated yields, which implies that policies must be beneficial and profitable (p. 6).\n\nWith this, they propose a definition, that is, \"[p]olicy being a functional design seeking to fulfill certain objectives on the basis of specific calculations of the pros and the cons, and this is naturally context-dependent\" (p. 7). Hence, it has a dynamic character: (1) it considers the changing environment, and (2) it prioritizes public good.\n\nThey also enumerate the features of a policy: (1) intentional or deliberately designed to address societal issues; (2) a course of action with specific goals and objectives; (3) devised in response to a perceived need or demand or problem; (4)creates an environment in which various actors converge to develop policy designs; (5) an authoritative decision by the government (Chakbarty and Chand, 2016, p. 8).\n\nThree broad and dynamic disciplines are presented. It is then instructive to highlight their commonalities or similarities to affirm their interface: (1) systematic (planned, organized, designed, or an approach); (2) change-oriented, preferably for the better if not the best (public good); (3) holistic and multidimensional; (4) pro-people or advocates of equity or social justice, and (5) largely participatory.\n\nDevelopment education, being the youngest field or discipline, has two distinct emphases: sustainable development and global citizenship (Bourn, 2015). A number of modifiers have come before the term development over time, but the most recent is sustainable, hence, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Guru (2016) defines it as \"a vision of the future that provides necessary blueprint through which the developmental activities of individuals and institutions can be streamlined on the basis of ethical, humanitarian, and professional considerations\" (p. 85). It has three dimensions: social, economic, and environmental (World Summit on Sustainable Development, 2002 in Guru, 2016). In fact, it is imperative for both development practitioners and policy makers to understand these dimensions.\n\nIn the context of globalization, the need for communication is increasing. Many countries has invested in developing their technology which in turns speed up the exchange of information across different countries. This has led to a more complex work context in different institutions especially in business, education, and non-profit organizations. Employees not only has to deal with a lot of things that are not present in a very homogenous environment like observing other religious holidays, communicating in different languages, and also understanding different preferences on certain things. In a multi-cultural environment, organizational culture becomes more complex.\n\nThere were countless of research that show how poor communication can lead to poor organizational performance. It is important for every organisation to develop an effective means to communicate internally and externally in the organization and find ways to develop a health knowledge sharing culture. Understanding the impact of globalisation is crucial for any organisation to be competitive in the global market. In this context, effective communication is expected to create a healthy organizational culture by providing necessary information that will bridge many gaps in the organization.\n\nFlor (2007) noted that \"communication and culture are inextricably linked\" (p. 112). Seemingly, communication constitutes culture and vice versa in any organizational engagement internally and externally. From time immemorial, effective internal organizational communication which reduces uncertainties and increases productivity in the workplace has been the common goal of many organizations worldwide. Consequently, effective communication processes could mean effective communication policies are in place explicitly or have been legitimized in practice. Making this complicated is perceived in how decision-makers, policy experts and organizational members interact in furthering organizational communication processes. Flor (2007) describes potential complexities at work that could burden more than could help the organization's communication culture.The really difficult part of communication work (and perhaps the most time consuming) is pleasing everybody from your superior, to the subject matter specialist and, finally, to the user whose opinions (and tastes) may altogether vary from those of the decision-maker. This potentially is the most time consuming particularly since, right or wrong, everyone believes that he is a communication expert (p.167-168).\n\nThe roots of participatory approaches in development communication according to Yoon (1996) can be found in the early years of the 1970s when many people in the development community began to question the top-down approach of development dominant in the 1950s and 60s which targeted the economic growth of countries as its main goal. Development according to Yoon (1996) was \"thought to be triggered by the wide-scale diffusion and adoption of modern technologies\". Such modernization Yoon (1996) further expounds, was planned in the national capitals under the guidance and direction of experts brought-in from developed countries. Often, the people in the villages who are the \"objects\" of these plans were the last to know when \"strangers from the city turned-up, frequently unannounced, to survey land or look at project sites\". However, the demarcation of the First, Second and Third Worlds by late 1960s to early 1980s has broken down and the cross-over centre-periphery can be found in every region, a need for a new concept of development which emphasizes cultural identity and multidimensionality is raised (Servaes and Malikhao, 2005). Servaes and Malikhao (2005) posit that the'global' world, in general as well as in its distinct regional and national entities, is confronted with multifaceted crises. Apart from the obvious economic and financial crisis, they elaborate that one could also refer to social, ideological, moral, political, ethnic, ecological and security crises thus the previously held dependency perspective has become more difficult to support because of the growing interdependency of regions, nations and communities in the globalized world. A new viewpoint on development and social change has come to the forefront according to them which \"the common starting point is the examination of the changes from 'bottom-up', from the self-development of the local community\".\n\nAt first, speech, traditional and folk media, and group activities were considered the most appropriate instruments for supporting participatory communication hence, the practitioners in the mass media responded by innovating their own approach towards participatory communication (Yoon, 1996) which brought the emergence of community radios. The historical philosophy of community radio is to use this medium as the voice of the voiceless, the mouthpiece of the oppressed people and generally as a tool for development. Yoon (1996) articulates that in community radios, the people \"produced and voiced the programs which were focused on local issues which were the most current and important making way for participatory communication to be practiced at both the community or village level and at the broader regional or sub-regional level\". Most of the successes of community broadcasting are to be found in the non-formal education sector (Beltran,1993 in Yoon, 1996). Literacy programs have been effectively conducted via community radio and television stations. Other subjects covered by these stations include gender issues, farming, health, income-generation, workers' safety and occupational health, land tenure, and religious matters (Yoon, 1996).\n\nMhagama (2015) posits that participatory development projects such as community radio employ a participatory approach to decision making processes and enable marginalized people to \"define their own development path through the identification and implementation of projects that are initiated by them\". He stresses that \"participatory communication gives the local community a right to freely share or exchange information and to reach a consensus on what they want to do or to be done and how to do it\". Tamminga (1997) in Mhagama (2015) addresses that in community radio the dichotomy between the rich and the marginalized sectors like women, indigenous peoples and the poor is broken by \"allowing listeners an opportunity to shape the medium to meet their own specific needs and breakdown the monopolies of knowledge and power that marginalize them politically, economically and socially\". In one project of UNESCO in partnership with the Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), and the Philippine government a participatory communication project using community radio dubbed as \"Tambuli\" (Tambuli is a Filipino term referring to a traditional way of calling villagers to an important meeting)(Jayaweera and Tabing, 1997) was launched in 1991. According to Howley (2005) the project was able to make the community residents come to appreciate radio's potential as a forum to discuss issues of mutual concern allowing the local populations to give immediate and sustained feedback to local, regional and even national political leaders and authorities which afforded them greater opportunity to chart their own destiny.\n\nHowley (2010) as cited in Mhagama (2015) stressed that \"community radio highlights people's ability to alter and rearrange existing media structures to better suit their needs\". This is made possible Servaes (1996) in Mhagama (2015) concludes because community radio allows non-professionals to participate in media production, management, and planning of the communication systems.\n\nFlor (n. d., as cited in Academia, 2015) states that policy sciences and development communication have seemingly identical underlying function in society: to solve societal issues and make social change possible for the benefit of the greater majority. Development communication and policy sciences share key characteristics. First, both policy sciences and development communication are purposive. They serve specific and systematic functions to achieve a common goal which is to solve issues and problems in society in order to achieve change. Second, both policy sciences and development communication believe that, at times, power and corrupt practices in the government have the potential to undermine reasoned logic. This is evident in the commercialisation of mass media that advances profit over social responsibility. Thus, development communication and policy sciences have the role to combat such corrupt practices. The third characteristic that policy sciences and development communication share is to heed action for policies to take effect. Policies that remain in print/word without action is a futile enterprise. A policy to be effective needs to be implemented, monitored, assessed and sustained. For development communication and policy sciences to make great impact to the world, participation or engagement of stakeholders is necessary. Below is an analysis of a few studies that deal with how development communication relates with policy sciences, and how they fuse in order to effect change in the larger society. In a discussion on the policy sciences, Allen (1978, as cited in Flor, n. d.) states:Since communication permeates every facet of a person's behaviour, the study of communication is no less than one way to study policy making. Communication is a useful concept precisely because it is one more handle whereby we can effectively study policy making. Communication is one of those few variables through which any policy decision is dependent (p.69).\n\nAnother example where development communication takes an important role is in the global health space. International organizations such as the World Health Organization, the Gavi Vaccine Alliance, ASEAN, and the United Nations have all used the principles of development communication to achieve global impacts. Specifically, on 08 August 1967, the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), which was then composed of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, and Thailand was established with the signing of the ASEAN Declaration (Bangkok Declaration). In the succeeding years, other Southeast Asian countries have joined, including Brunei (1984), Viet Nam (1995), Lao PDR (1997), Myanmar (1997), and Cambodia (1999) (ASEAN 2012a: 1). It was established to accelerate the economic growth, social progress, and cultural development in the region; promote regional peace and stability; promote active collaboration and mutual assistance on matters of common interest; provide assistance to each other in the form of training and research facilities; and collaborate more effectively for the greater utilization of their agriculture and industries; among others (ASEAN 2012a: 1). Criticisms on the ASEAN have, however, noted various failures in the regionalism efforts in Southeast Asia. Previous studies have defined regionalism as “more than an institutional process of multilateral policy coordination and the negotiation of competing stakeholder interests... [It is a] collective and intersubjective identities” (Elliott 2003: 29-52). Recent regionalism efforts worldwide also worked either institutionally or through cooperation among governments (Anonymous2005: 2291-2313). Although some argues that the ASEAN’s regionalism efforts were seen as more of cooperation among the governments rather than an institutional one, development communication can play a key role in bridging these countries and towards commitment to the Declaration.\n\nThe youths hold a pivotal role in making a difference in society. Being digital natives, they communicate efficiently, develop networks pervasively, and create, influence and change social norms and practices. In short, being communication natives who can create a collective voice, they have the power to influence policies and change perspectives deeply rooted in society. For instance, during disasters, the youths are viewed as passive victims with no role in communicating risks or preventing and responding to disasters. Since disaster management seems to be predominated by top-down strategies, not bottom-up, the youths are seen as weaklings who are at the receiving end of calamity relief operations. However, Mitchell, Haynes, Hall, Wei and Oven (2008) seem to have refuted this perception based on the findings of their case studies in El Salvador and New Orleans. Mitchell et al. (2008) concluded that children and youths can be potential informants within informal and formal risk communication networks. Their case studies have shown that:children and youth can become effective conduits, vehicles and bridges as they are embedded within the household and community and can act as trusted two-way \"translators\" and communicators. Overall, children and youth were found to be effective communicators of risk when language barriers exist increasing the agency of young people, an outside agent has helped support the organization of youth groups, the community has strong social cohesion, and there is a level of distrust in political sources (such as police impunity) (p. 269).In the Philippines, a study by Fernandez and Shaw (2013) found that even until today, \"young people are not given an active role in (or worse, are excluded from) the action toward disaster risk reduction\" (p. 135). Fernandez and Shaw's (2013) review of national policies of the Philippines related to youth council participation in disaster risk reduction (DRR) shows discrepancies between ideal scenarios and actual youth participation in DRR in practice. So much more needs to be done in engaging young people in helping build disaster resilient communities. However, although these discrepancies exist, there are many success stories of Filipino youths involved in development programs with the aim to prepare communities for disasters. The National Youth Commission (NYC, 2013) believed that children and youth are not just a vulnerable group, but can play vital roles in their communities to prepare for future disasters. For instance, the Tanay Mountaineers Youth Arm, a Ten Accomplished Youth Organization (TAYO) 2013 winner, has been responding to victims of disasters not only in Tanay, Rizal but even in Quezon Province since Typhoon Ondoy (Ketsana) hit their town in 2009 (Rappler.com, 2014). The local government of Tanay has tapped the Tanay Mountaineers as the official disaster response team of the municipality. Another TAYO 2013 winner, the Hayag Youth Organization, carried out the \"Langoy para sa Kaluwasan,\" a Swim Camp Disaster Preparedness and Open Water Safety Training for children and youth from impoverished communities in Ormoc City, Leyte. This is in response to the fact that many youths in Ormoc still do not know how to swim apart from the fact that water safety skills are not taught to them in school (Rappler.com, 2014). Despite scepticism, there still exists a growing optimism that policy scientists and communication policy developers can help review and reaffirm existing youth policies in the Philippines in engaging youth groups themselves for DRR projects, among others. Fernandez and Shaw (2013) posited that open and engaging communication is necessary so that the youths become more involved in disaster management and risk reduction efforts in their communities.\n\nGlobalisation has been shaping this world into a small village. With this phenomenon comes urbanisation or massive urban planning that governments and private industries are advancing. With policies being created and governance being mandated, remote heartlands of countries are now slowly being transformed into urbanised places and spaces which in turn produce setbacks such as pollution, health issues and other social problems. However, one trend that is becoming popular in some countries is urban forestry which somehow demands for sound scientific information and public participation. According to Janse and Konijnendijk (2007), urban society's manifold perceptions, preferences and demands for urban forest goods and services indicate the necessity for socially inclusive policy planning processes. They said that successful policies can only be formulated by establishing close links with, for example, urban planning and municipal policies. Inherently, this means that close ties between research and policy are required. They discussed the outcomes of the NeighbourWoods research and development project in which a wide range of tools for public participation were tested in six urban woodland case-studies across Europe. Findings confirmed that a set of tools comprising a step-wise process from informing the public in an attractive way, collecting information on public opinion, towards fully participatory approaches such as direct involvement in decision-making is most likely to ensure socially inclusive planning. Communication with policy-makers requires a high degree of openness, clearly explaining every phase of the process, being open about each other's expectations, and developing relationships based on mutual trust (Janse & Konijnendijk, 2007).\n\nDespite power issues that lurk in most organisations and governments, Development Communication and policy sciences seem to advance specific and systematic functions to achieve a common goal for the benefit of the majority. This is shown in an increasingly global India, whereby an agricultural community in Pune, Maharashtra was faced with losing farmland to urbanisation and devised an unusual solution (Sami, 2013). Pooling their land together, the farmers in this community leveraged their social and political networks to take advantage of the changing economic climate in Pune and built a mixed-use township on their 400 acres of farmland (Sami, 2013). They formed alliances with other stakeholders, both internally within the agricultural community and externally at the city and state levels. Sami (2013) concluded that \"ad-hoc coalitions in the power and politics of urban processes in an Indian city have emerged as a result of a political will and leadership vacuum in Indian cities in the face of the changing focus and priorities of national and regional governments as well as a growing gap in urban service provision\" (p. 151).\n\nIf highly urbanised and wealthy cities or countries are advancing urban agriculture, it cannot be denied that many of the Third World countries are also at par when it comes to improving agricultural processes and policies and in the informatisation of agriculture. In Malawi, one of the poorest regions in Africa, Agunga (2012) emphasised that the success rate of poverty-reduction programming could be greater if C4D education was provided for development decision-makers and field staff, especially agricultural extension workers. Agunga (2012) further stated that agricultural extension education can impact development by focusing on how C4D can strengthen agricultural extension performance. He implied that educating policymakers about C4D will increase donor investments in pilot C4D projects, a strengthening of agricultural extension systems, and success of poverty-reduction programs (Agunga, 2012).\n\nIn the Philippines, a book by Flor (2007) entitled Development Communication Praxis discussed a rice scandal such that in the last quarter of 1990, the Philippines groaned as the price of rice and other commodities went up. Flor (2007) said: Rice farmers who were expected to gain from the situation were likewise disadvantaged. They were not able to sell their produce at reasonable prices. On one hand, their bumper crop entailed expensive inputs – certified high yielding varieties, irrigation, pesticides and fertilizer. On the other, middle men bought their harvest at cutthroat prices leaving them penniless and in debt… the nature of the rice industry is such that information, particularly market information, means money and power. For all practical purposes, the Philippine rice industry is controlled by a group of obscure Filipino-Chinese businessmen called the Binondo Rice Cartel… Employing a nationwide marketing network composed mainly of fellow Filipino-Chinese traders, the cartel has held a viselike grip over rice trading since the post World War II years that enable them to virtually dictate the buying price of dried paddy all over the country (pp. 114–115).What was done when this happened? Did development communication come into the picture? Was change sought? There were a few discussions on alternatives such as proper use of funds since it was observed that international donations for the agricultural farmers were spent more on the informatisation of agriculture (increasing need for computers, logistical aids, etc.) instead of investing into more practical and realistic methods to empower the farmers and improve their farming methods. Attention was also given to the rise of white-collar jobs which was cutting down the numbers of agricultural farmers tilling the land (Flor, 2007). The youths became more attracted to the life in the city and to seek for office or desk jobs than remain in the province and till the farm. With this, Flor (2007) suggested policy rationalisation: Rationalisation need not mean a reduction of monies awarded to the information sector. It primarily means the rearrangement of priorities and the increase of allotment to actual farming activities in the case of agriculture or to direct social services in the case of rural development. (p. 123).However, with the seemingly hegemonic influence of the internet and the impact of globalisation, the field of agriculture needs to adapt to radical changes in society for it to become sustainable. As policy sciences and development communication suggest, the goal of communication and policies is to empower individuals or groups, and this empowerment necessitates crucial adaptation to an ever-changing world. This brought agriculture into another layer: e-agriculture. What is e-agriculture? The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO, 2013) defined this as: <block quote>An emerging field focusing on the enhancement of agricultural and rural development through improved information and communication processes. More specifically, e-Agriculture involves the conceptualization, design, development, evaluation and application of innovative ways to use information and communication technologies (ICT) in the rural domain, with a primary focus on agriculture (p. 1).\n\nIn a post on e-Agriculture webpage, Walter (2009), indicates that the Philippines has launched a Knowledge Working Towards Enhancing Agricultural Communities Program or K-Agrinet project with the aim to promoting the use of ICT to attain agricultural sustainability and competitiveness for the country's farmers. The project is a collaborative effort amongst the country's diverse agencies to utilize information technology (IT) as a tool to fast-track the dissemination of agriculture and natural resources information and technologies to farmers, upland dwellers, and rural entrepreneurs in the Philippines. The institutional key players in the agricultural and natural resource sectors are: (1) the e-Learning led by the Open Academy for Philippine Agriculture of the Department of Agriculture-Philippine Rice Research Institute (DA-PhilRice) which focuses on e-extension and distance learning for agriculture extension workers; (2) the e-Consortia led by the Department of Science and Technology-Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Natural Resources Research and Development (DOST-PCARRD) which intensifies technology and knowledge generation and exchange amongst existing partner R&D Institutions through improved ICT tools and applications; (3) the e-Farm also led by DOST-PCARRD that promotes e-commerce by initiating e- based farm to market opportunities through the FITS centers and their respective farmer-scientists; and lastly, (4) the e-Agrikultura led by the Department of Agrarian Reform (DAR) and Development Academy of the Philippines (DAP) tasked at mobilising and generating the participation of agrarian reform communities into the program (Walter, 2009, p. 1).\n\nIndeed, the goal of C4D and e-agriculture is clear: to improve the lives of people especially the poor and the marginalised. This entails educating and empowering them for the impact of change to be sustainable.\n\nReports and studies show that women are mostly victims of many kinds of abuse. For instance, Kaunda (1990) described that a smallholder development strategy in Malawi, Africa puts emphasis on commercialization of agriculture, combined with decision making processes which are centralized in the bureaucracy, serving only to reproduce and perpetuate historical forms of social differentiation which are the basis of the women's subordination and/or subjugation.\n\nHowever, it can be seen in the past few decades that women have been successful in championing a cause and in letting their voices be heard in the society. Women from all walks of life have been engaging themselves into some development projects. For Instance, in the Philippines, the World Food Programme (WFP, 2012) launched a project in the Philippine island of Mindanao to helping women kick start agriculture in the region by providing them with the training they need to become successful farmers. This shows that women can be empowered and independent – two qualities that development communication and policy sciences are championing. HumanaPeopletoPeople (2012) is also promoting gender equality in India, whereby, to release the empowerment of women, the women in their communities have formed coalitions such as women self-help groups focusing on community projects. The women are empowered to bargain, to have economic influence, to earn money for improvement of health and education of the family and to gain a stronger social standing.\n\nEither in the First World or in the Third World nations, a huge number of women are making a difference in a lot of fields with the goal to contribute to character and nation-building. In the field of developing women's capacities to run and manage their small-medium enterprises (SMEs), Gail Romero, the founder and CEO for Collective Changes, has been providing effective technology platforms to business mentors for women's SMEs in developing nations. Gail continues to drive support for empowering women in business and global recognition of the economic engine that women can provide to their nations. Gail is also Senior Advisor for MacKenzie-Romero Consulting, Executive Producer for Rainmakers TV and carried the title of Ambassador for Global Health for the American Cancer Society until August 2011. Gail has spent the last two decades creating and directing the development and integration of innovative economic ideas and campaigns and strategic alliances with policy makers to advance women in leadership throughout the world… She has held numerous corporate board positions for start-up companies and guided new social venture partnerships. She has served as a visiting professor and international speaker and presenter on social justice, women's issues and education. Gail is a recent TED Prize nominee for her work to leverage technology to grow women's business skills (\"Advancing Women in Leadership\", 2014).Development communication and policy sciences have gone a long way to advancing the rights and freedom of people – children and youths, women, farmers, labourers, etc., with the goal that they become more informed and empowered to make decisions for themselves and their communities, to realise their full potential and to become a catalyst for change as Flor (2007) postulated.\n\nAgenda setting is an important topic in the Development Communication and policy sciences because it sets problems and issues into policies. It sets the tone of how policies are crafted, based on the needs of the public. Equally important in this discussion is understanding the Agenda Setting Process by which problems and alternative solutions gain or lose public and elite attention (Birkland, 2011). It is in this area where individuals take collective action and vie for attention. According to Schattschneider (1960), groups that successfully describe a problem will also be the one to define the solutions to it, thereby prevailing in public debate.\n\nAnother idea offered by Schattschneider is the Theory of Group Mobilization & Participation in Agenda Setting wherein the issues are more likely to be elevated to agenda status if the scope of conflict is broadened. There are 2 ways to broaden an issue:\nWhen powerful groups lose control of the agenda, they are said to enter into policy debates to gain attention (Baumgartner & Jones), while other groups do venue shopping and ally with those who are able to advance their issues.\n\nLevels of Agenda\n\nFrom the vast field of issues (Agenda Universe), groups push issues meriting public attention \"within the legitimate jurisdiction of existing governmental authority\" (Birkland, quoting Cobb and Elder), moving to the next level (Systemic Agenda). Ideas that gain active and serious consideration of decision/policy makers go the next level (Institutional Agenda). If acted upon, it reaches Decision Agenda—the last level in the policy making process. Within these levels there are push and pull actions that happen between and among interest groups in order to pursue or challenge such initiatives.\n\nProcess of Policy Development (also Stages of the Policy Cycle)\n\nIt includes the following activities that sets off creation of policies:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20894221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20894221", "title": "Diples", "text": "Diples\n\nDiples or Thiples () is a Greek dessert from the Peloponnese, made of thin sheet-like dough. They are essentially the same as angel wings, except that they are dipped in syrup rather than served dry.\n\nThe dough is rolled into long, thin strips, fried and folded in hot oil and then dipped in a sugar or honey syrup.\nDiples can be made in different shapes, of which the most common are bow ties and spirals.\nDiples are a typical dessert in the Peloponnese and are also served at weddings and at New Year's celebrations.\n\nAnother form uses an iron mould dipped in diples batter and cooked in cooking oil until the diples separates from the mould. It is topped with syrup, crushed walnuts, and cinnamon.\n\n"}
{"id": "43295625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43295625", "title": "El Barod Sharq", "text": "El Barod Sharq\n\nEl Barod Sharq is one of the villages surrounding the town of Sodfa in the Asyut Governorate, Egypt. According to statistics from the year 2006, the total population in El Barod Sharq was 3168 people, of which 1620 are men and 1548 women.\n"}
{"id": "36620442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36620442", "title": "Erden Airfield", "text": "Erden Airfield\n\nErden Airfield is an airfield in Montana Province, Bulgaria. The airfield was built in 2006 and is located 5 km south of Boychinovtsi near the village of Erden.\n\n"}
{"id": "15597110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15597110", "title": "Europeans in Medieval China", "text": "Europeans in Medieval China\n\nGiven textual and archaeological evidence, it is thought that thousands of Europeans lived in Imperial China during the period of Mongol rule. These were people from countries traditionally belonging to the lands of Christendom during the High to Late Middle Ages who visited, traded, performed Christian missionary work, or lived in China. This occurred primarily during the second half of the 13th century and the first half of the 14th century, coinciding with the rule of the Mongol Empire, which ruled over a large part of Eurasia and connected Europe with their Chinese dominion of the Yuan dynasty (1271–1368). Whereas the Byzantine Empire centered in Greece and Anatolia maintained rare incidences of correspondence with the Tang, Song and Ming dynasties of China, the Roman papacy sent several missionaries and embassies to the early Mongol Empire as well as to Khanbaliq (modern Beijing), the capital of the Mongol-led Yuan Dynasty.\n\nMainly located in places such as the Mongol capital of Karakorum, European missionaries and merchants traveled around the Mongol realm during a period of time referred to by historians as the \"Pax Mongolica\". The most famous European visitor to China during this period was Marco Polo, preceded by his father and uncle Niccolò and Maffeo Polo. Perhaps the most important political consequence of this movement of peoples and intensified trade was the Franco-Mongol alliance, although the latter never fully materialized, at least not in a consistent manner. The establishment of the Ming dynasty in 1368 and reestablishment of native Han Chinese rule led to the cessation of European merchants and Roman Catholic missionaries living in China. Direct contact with Europeans was not renewed until Portuguese explorers and Jesuit missionaries arrived on Ming China's southern shores at the beginning of the 16th century, during the Age of Exploration.\n\nThe Italian merchant Marco Polo, as well as his father and uncle Niccolò and Maffeo Polo, traveled to China during the period of Mongol rule. Marco Polo wrote an account of his travels there, as did the Franciscan friar Odoric of Pordenone and the merchant Francesco Balducci Pegolotti. The author John Mandeville also wrote about his travels to China, but he may have merely based these on preexisting accounts. In Khanbaliq, the Roman archdiocese was established by John of Montecorvino, who was later succeeded by Giovanni de Marignolli. Other Europeans such as André de Longjumeau managed to reach the eastern borderlands of China in their diplomatic travels to the Mongol royal court, while others such as Giovanni da Pian del Carpine, Benedykt Polak, and William of Rubruck traveled instead to Mongolia. The Uyghur Nestorian Christian Rabban Bar Sauma was the first diplomat from China to reach the royal courts of Christendom in the West.\n\nBefore the 13th century AD, instances of Europeans going to China or of Chinese going to Europe were very rare. Euthydemus I, Hellenistic ruler of the Greco-Bactrian Kingdom in Central Asia during the 3rd century BC, led an expedition into the Tarim Basin (modern Xinjiang, China) in search of precious metals. Greek influence as far east as the Tarim Basin at this time also seems to be confirmed by the discovery of the Sampul tapestry, a woolen wall hanging with the painting of a blue-eyed soldier, possibly a Greek, and a prancing centaur, a common Hellenistic motif from Greek mythology. However, it is known that other Indo-European peoples such as the Yuezhi, Saka, and Tocharians inhabited the Tarim Basin before and after it was brought under Han Chinese influence during the reign of Emperor Wu of Han (r. 141–87 BC).\n\nAt the cemetery in Sampul (Chinese: 山普拉), ~14 km from the archaeological site of Khotan in Lop County, Xinjiang, China, where the aforementioned Sampul tapestry was found, the local inhabitants buried their dead there from roughly 217 BC to 283 AD. Mitochondrial DNA analysis of the human remains has revealed genetic affinities to peoples from the Caucasus, specifically a maternal lineage linked to Ossetians and Iranians, as well as an Eastern-Mediterranean paternal lineage. Seeming to confirm this link, from historical accounts it is known that Alexander the Great, who married a Sogdian woman from Bactria named Roxana, encouraged his soldiers and generals to marry local women; consequentially the later kings of the Seleucid Empire and Greco-Bactrian Kingdom had a mixed Persian-Greek ethnic background.\n\nBeginning in the age of Augustus (r. 27 BC – 14 AD), the Romans, including authors such as Pliny the Elder, mentioned contacts with the \"Seres\", whom they identified as the producers of silk from distant East Asia and could have been the Chinese or even any number of middlemen of various ethnic backgrounds along the Silk Road of Central Asia and Northwest China. The Eastern-Han era Chinese general Ban Chao, Protector General of the Western Regions, explored Central Asia and in 97 AD dispatched his envoys Gan Ying to Daqin (i.e. the Roman Empire). Gan was dissuaded by Parthian authorities from venturing further than the Persian Gulf, although he wrote a detailed report about the Roman Empire, its cities, postal network and consular system of government, and presented this to the Han court. Subsequently, there was a series of Roman embassies in China lasting from the 2nd to 3rd centuries AD, as recorded in Chinese sources. In 166 AD the \"Book of Later Han\" records that Romans reached China from the maritime south and presented gifts to the court of Emperor Huan of Han (r. 146–168 AD), claiming they represented Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius Antoninus (\"Andun\" 安敦) (r. 161–180 AD). Historian Rafe de Crespigny speculates that they were Roman merchants instead of official diplomats.\n\nAt the very least, archaeological evidence supports the claim in the \"Weilüe\" and \"Book of Liang\" that Roman merchants were active in Southeast Asia, if not the claim of their embassies arriving in China through Jiaozhi, the Chinese-controlled province of northern Vietnam. Roman golden medallions from the reigns of Antoninus Pius and his adopted son Marcus Aurelius have been found in Oc Eo (near Ho Chi Minh City), a territory that belonged to the Kingdom of Funan bordering Jiaozhi. Suggestive of even earlier activity is a Republican-era Roman glass bowl unearthed from a Western Han tomb of Guangzhou (on the shores of the South China Sea) dated to the early 1st century BC, in addition to ancient Mediterranean goods found in Thailand, Indonesia, and Malaysia. The Greco-Roman geographer Ptolemy wrote in his Antonine-era \"Geography\" that beyond the Golden Chersonese (Malay Peninsula) was a port city called Kattigara discovered by a Greek sailor named Alexander, a site Ferdinand von Richthofen assumed was Chinese-controlled Hanoi, but given the archaeological evidence could have been Oc Eo. Roman coins have been found in China, but far fewer than in India.\n\nIt is possible that a group of Greek acrobatic performers, who claimed to be from a place \"west of the seas\" (i.e. Roman Egypt, which the \"Book of Later Han\" related to the \"Daqin\" empire), were presented by a king of Burma to Emperor An of Han in 120 AD. It is known that in both the Parthian Empire and Kushan Empire of Asia, ethnic Greeks continued to be employed as entertainers such as musicians and athletes who engaged in athletic competitions.\n\nByzantine Greek historian Procopius stated that two Nestorian Christian monks eventually uncovered how silk was made. From this revelation, monks were sent by the Byzantine Emperor Justinian (ruled 527–565) as spies on the Silk Road from Constantinople to China and back to steal the silkworm eggs. This resulted in silk production in the Mediterranean, particularly in Thrace, in northern Greece, and giving the Byzantine Empire a monopoly on silk production in medieval Europe until the loss of its territories in Southern Italy. The Byzantine historian Theophylact Simocatta, writing during the reign of Heraclius (r. 610–641), relayed information about China's geography, its capital city \"Khubdan\" (Old Turkic: \"Khumdan\", i.e. Chang'an), its current ruler \"Taisson\" whose name meant \"Son of Heaven\" (Chinese: 天子 \"Tianzi\", although this could be derived from the name of Emperor Taizong of Tang), and correctly pointed to its reunification by the Sui dynasty (581–618) as occurring during the reign of Maurice, noting that China had previously been divided politically along the Yangzi River by two warring nations. The Chinese \"Old Book of Tang\" and \"New Book of Tang\" mention (拂菻; i.e. Byzantium), which they equated with Daqin (i.e. the Roman Empire), beginning in 643 with an embassy sent by the king \"Boduoli\" (波多力, i.e. Constans II Pogonatos) to Emperor Taizong of Tang, bearing gifts such as red glass. These histories also provided cursory descriptions of Constantinople, its walls, and how it was besieged by \"Da shi\" (大食; the Arabs of the Umayyad Caliphate) and their commander \"Mo-yi\" (摩拽; i.e. Muawiyah I, governor of Syria before becoming caliph), who forced them to pay tribute. From Chinese records it is known that Michael VII Doukas (Mie li sha ling kai sa 滅力沙靈改撒) of \"Fu lin\" dispatched a diplomatic mission to China's Song dynasty that arrived in 1081, during the reign of Emperor Shenzong of Song. Some Chinese during the Song period showed interest in countries to the west, such as the early 13th-century Quanzhou customs inspector Zhao Rugua, who described the ancient Lighthouse of Alexandria in his \"Zhu fan zhi\".\n\nAccording to the 9th-century \"Book of Roads and Kingdoms\" by ibn Khordadbeh, China was a destination for Radhanite Jews buying boys, female slaves and eunuchs from Europe. During the subsequent Song period there was also a community of Kaifeng Jews in China. The Spaniard, Benjamin of Tudela (from Navarre) was a 12th-century Jewish traveler whose \"Travels of Benjamin\" recorded vivid descriptions of Europe, Asia, and Africa, preceding those of Marco Polo by a hundred years.\n\nPolo, a 13th-century merchant from the Republic of Venice, describes his travels to Yuan-dynasty China and the court of Mongol ruler Kublai Khan, along with the preceding journeys made by Niccolò and Maffeo Polo, his father and uncle, respectively, in his \"Travels of Marco Polo\". Polo related this account to Rustichello da Pisa around 1298 while they shared a Genoese prison cell following their capture in battle. In his return trip to Persia from China (setting out from the port at Quanzhou in 1291), Marco Polo said that he accompanied the Mongol princess Kököchin in her intended marriage to Arghun, ruler of the Mongol Ilkhanate, but she instead married his son Ghazan following the former's sudden death. Although Marco Polo's presence is omitted entirely, his story is confirmed by the 14th-century Persian historian Rashid-al-Din Hamadani in his \"Jami' al-tawarikh\".\n\nMarco Polo accurately described geographical features of China such as the Grand Canal. His detailed and accurate descriptions of salt production confirm that he had actually been in China. Marco described salt wells and hills where salt could be mined, probably in Yunnan, and reported that in the mountains \"these rascals ... have none of the Great Khan's paper money, but use salt instead ... They have salt which they boil and set in a mold ...\" Polo also remarked how the Chinese burned paper effigies shaped as male and female servants, camels, horses, suits of clothing and armor while cremating the dead during funerary rites.\n\nWhen visiting Zhenjiang in Jiangsu, China, Marco Polo noted that Christian churches had been built there. His claim is confirmed by a Chinese text of the 14th century explaining how a Sogdian named Mar-Sargis from Samarkand founded six Nestorian Christian churches there in addition to one in Hangzhou during the second half of the 13th century. Nestorian Christianity had existed in China earlier during the Tang dynasty (618–907 AD) when a Persian monk named Alopen (Chinese: \"Āluósī\"; 阿羅本; 阿羅斯) came to the capital Chang'an in 653 to proselytize, as described in a dual Chinese and Syriac language inscription from Chang'an (modern Xi'an) dated to the year 781.\n\nOthers were soon to follow. In about 1340 Francesco Balducci Pegolotti, a merchant from Florence, compiled a guide about trade in China, a country he called \"Cathay\", noting the size of Khanbaliq (modern Beijing) and how merchants could exchange silver for Chinese paper money that could be used to buy luxury items such as silk. John Mandeville, a mid-14th-century author and alleged Englishman from St Albans, claimed to have lived in China and even served at the Mongol khan's court. However, certain parts of his accounts are considered dubious by modern scholars, with some conjecturing that he simply concocted his stories by using written accounts of China penned by other authors such as Odoric of Pordenone. Marco Polo mentioned the heavy presence of Genoese Italians at Tabriz (modern Iran) a city that Marco returned to from China via the Strait of Hormuz in 1293–1294. The Italian Franciscan monk John of Montecorvino took this same journey in reverse starting in 1291, setting out from Tabriz to Ormus, sailing from there to China while accompanied by the Italian merchant Pietro de Lucalongo. While Montecorvino became a bishop in Khanbaliq (Beijing), his friend Lucalongo continued to serve as a merchant there and even donated a large amount of money to maintain the local Catholic Church.\n\nIn Zaytun, the first harbour of China, there was a small Genoese colony, mentioned in 1326 by André de Pérouse. The most famous Italian resident of the city was , who was sent to the West by the Khan in 1336 to obtain \"100 horses and other treasures.\" Following Savignone's visit, an ambassador was dispatched to China with one superb horse, which was later the object of Chinese poems and paintings.\n\nOther Venetians lived in China, including one who brought a letter to the West from John of Montecorvino in 1305. In 1339 a Venetian named Giovanni Loredano is recorded to have returned to Venice from China. A tombstone was also discovered in Yangzhou, in the name of Catherine de Villioni, daughter of Dominici, who died there in 1342.\n\nThe \"History of Yuan\" (chapter 134) records that a certain Ai-sie (transliteration of either Joshua or Joseph) from the country of Fu lin (i.e. the Byzantine Empire), initially in the service of Güyük Khan, was well-versed in Western languages and had expertise in the fields of medicine and astronomy that convinced Kublai Khan to offer him a position as the director of medical and astronomical boards. Kublai Khan eventually honored him with the title of Prince of Fu lin (Chinese: 拂菻王; \"Fú lǐn wáng\"). His biography in the \"History of Yuan\" lists his children by their Chinese names, which are similar to the Christian names Elias (\"Ye-li-ah\"), Luke (\"Lu-ko\"), and Antony (\"An-tun\"), with a daughter named \"A-na-si-sz\".\n\nThe Italian explorer and archbishop Giovanni da Pian del Carpine and Polish friar and traveler Benedykt Polak were the first papal envoys to reach Karakorum after being sent there by Pope Innocent IV in 1245. The \"Historia Mongalorum\" was later written by Pian del Carpini, documenting his travels and a cursory history of the Mongols. Catholic missionaries soon established a considerable presence in China, due to the religious tolerance of the Mongols, due in no small part to the Khan's own great tolerance and open encouragement of the development of trade and intellectual avocation. The 18th-century English historian Edward Gibbon commented on the Mongols' religious tolerance and went as far as to compare the \"religious laws\" of Genghis Khan to equivalent ideas propounded by the Enlightenment English philosopher John Locke.\n\nOghul Qaimish, the widow of Güyük Khan, ruled as regent over the Mongol realm from 1249 to 1251. In 1250 the French diplomats André de Longjumeau, Guy de Longjumeau, and Jean de Carcassonne arrived at her court located along the Emil River (on the Kazakh-Chinese border), bearing gifts and representing their sovereign Louis IX of France, who desired a military alliance. Empress Qaimish viewed the gifts as tributary offerings and, in addition to gifts given in return, entrusted to Louis' diplomats, she sent the French monarch a letter demanding his submission as a vassal.\n\nThe Franciscan missionary John of Montecorvino (Giovanni da Montecorvino) was ordered to China by Pope Nicholas III in 1279. Montecorvino arrived in China at the end of 1293, where he later translated the New Testament into the Mongol tongue, and converted 6,000 people (probably mostly Alans, Turks and Mongols rather than Chinese). He was joined by three bishops (Andre de Perouse, Gerard Albuini and Peregrino de Castello) and ordained archbishop of Beijing by Pope Clement V in 1307. A community of Armenians in China sprang up during this period. They were converted to Catholicism by John of Montecorvino. Following the death of John of Montecorvino, Giovanni de Marignolli was dispatched to Beijing to become the new archbishop from 1342 to 1346 in an effort to maintain a Christian influence in the region. Marignolli, although not mentioned by name in the \"History of Yuan\", is noted in that historical text as the \"Frank\" (\"Fulang\") who provided the Yuan imperial court with an impressive war horse as a tributary gift.\n\nOn 15 March 1314 the killings of Francis de Petriolo, Monaldo of Ancona and Anthony of Milan occurred in China. This was followed by the Killing of James, Quanzhou's bishop, in 1362. His predecessors were Andrew, Peregrinus, and Gerard.\n\nThe Franciscan Friar Odoric of Pordenone visited China. Friars in Hangzhou and Zhangzhou were visited by Odorico. His total travels took place from 1304 to 1340, although he first returned to Europe in 1330. China's Franciscans were mentioned in his writings, the \"Itinerarium\".\n\nIn 1333, John de Montecorvino was officially replaced by Nicolaus de Bentra, who was chosen by Pope John XXII. There were complaints of the absence of the archbishop in 1338. Toghon Temür (the last Mongol ruler of the Yuan dynasty in China before their retreat to Mongolia to form the Northern Yuan dynasty) sent an embassy including Genoese Italians to Pope Benedict XII in 1336, requesting a new archbishop. The pope answered by sending legates and ecclesiastical leaders to Khanbaliq in 1342, which included Giovanni de Marignolli.\n\nIn 1370, following the ousting of the Mongols from China and the establishment of the Chinese Ming dynasty, the Pope sent a new mission to China, comprising the Parisian theologian Guillaume du Pré as the new archbishop and 50 Franciscans. However, this mission disappeared, apparently eliminated by Emperor Zhu Yuanzhang of Ming. The Ming Hongwu Emperor sent a diplomatic letter to the Byzantine Empire, through a European in China named Nieh-ku-lun. John V Palaiologos was the Byzantine Emperor at the time the message was sent by Hongwu, with the proclamatory letter informing him about the establishment of the new Ming dynasty. The message was sent to the Byzantine ruler in September 1371 when Hongwu met with the merchant Nieh-ku-lun (捏古倫) from Fu lin (Byzantium). The Khanbaliq bishop Nicolaus de Bentra is speculated to be the same person as Nieh-ku-lun, for instance, by Emil Bretschneider in 1888. More recently, Edward N. Luttwak (2009) also mused that Nicolaus de Bentra and this alleged Byzantine merchant Nieh-ku-lin were one and the same.\n\nFriar William of Parto, Cosmas, and John de' Marignolli were among the Catholic clerics in China. The \"Oriens Christianus\" by Michel Le Quien (1661–1733) recorded the names of Khanbaliq's previous bishops and archbishops.\n\nFor his travels from 1253 to 1255, the Franciscan monk William of Rubruck reported numerous Europeans in Central Asia. He described German prisoners who had been enslaved and forced to mine gold and manufacture iron weapons in the Mongol town of Bolat, near Talas, Kyrgyzstan. In Karakorum, the Mongol capital, he met a Parisian named Guillaume de Buchier, and Pâquette, a woman from the French city of Metz, who had both been captured in Hungary during the Mongol invasions of Europe. He also mentions Hungarians and Russians, and it is also known that 30,000 Alans, a group of Sarmatian tribes, formed the Asud guard of the Mongol court in Beijing.\n\nWilliam of Rubruck, a Flemish missionary who visited the Mongol court of Mongke Khan at Karakorum and returned to Europe in 1257, was a friend of the English philosopher and scientific thinker Roger Bacon. The latter recorded the earliest known European recipe for gunpowder in his \"Opus Majus\" of 1267. This came more than two centuries after the first known Chinese description of the formula for gunpowder in 1044, during the Song dynasty. The earliest use of Chinese prototype firearms occurred at an 1132 siege during the Jin-Song Wars, whereas the oldest surviving bronze hand cannon dates to 1288 during the Yuan period. Following the Mongol invasions of Japan (1274–1281), depicted explosive bombs used by Yuan-dynasty forces against their samurai. By 1326 the earliest artistic depiction of a gun was made in Europe by Walter de Milemete. Petrarch wrote in 1350 that cannons were then a common sight on the European battlefield.\n\nRabban Bar Sauma, a Nestorian Christian Uyghur Turk born in Zhongdu (later Khanbaliq, Beijing, capital of the Jurchen-led Jin dynasty), China, was sent to Europe in 1287 as an ambassador for Arghun, ruler of the Ilkhanate and grandnephew of Kublai Khan. He was preceded by Isa Kelemechi, an Assyrian Nestorian Christian who worked as a court astronomer for Kublai Khan in Khanbaliq, and was sent by Arghun to Pope Honorius IV in 1285. A decade earlier, Bar Sauma had originally set out on a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, passing through Gansu and Khotan in Northwest China, yet spent time in Armenia and Baghdad instead to avoid getting caught up in nearby armed conflicts. He had been accompanied by Rabban Markos, another Uyghur Nestorian Christian from China who was elected as the Patriarch of the Eastern Church and advised Arghun Khan to have Bar Sauma lead the diplomatic mission to Europe.\n\nBar Sauma, who spoke Chinese, Persian, and Old Uyghur, traveled with a cohort of Italians who served as translators, with Europeans communicating to him in Persian. Bar Sauma is the first known person from China to reach Europe, where he convened with the Byzantine Emperor Andronikos II Palaiologos, Philip IV of France, Edward I of England, and Pope Nicholas IV (shortly after the death of Pope Honorius IV) to form an alliance against the Mamluk Sultanate. Edward N. Luttwak depicts the arrival of these Nestorian envoys to the court of the Byzantine ruler Andronikos II as something akin to \"receiving mail from his in-law in Beijing,\" since Kublai Khan was a grandson of Genghis Khan and Andronikos had two half-sisters who were married to great-grandsons of Genghis. Moving further west, Bar Sauma witnessed a naval battle at the Bay of Naples, Italy in June, 1287 between the Angevins and the Kingdom of Aragon, while being hosted by Charles Martel of Anjou, whose father Charles II of Naples was imprisoned in Aragon (in modern Spain) at the time. Aside from his desire to see Christian sites, churches, and relics, Bar Sauma also showed a keen interest in the university life and curricula of Paris, which Morris Rossabi contends was rooted in how exotic it must have seemed from his perspective and educational background in Muslim Persia and Chinese Confucian teaching. Although he managed to secure an audience with these leaders of Christendom and exchanged letters from them to Arghun Khan, none of these Christian monarchs were fully committed to an alliance with the latter.\n\nIn 1368 the Mongol-led Yuan dynasty collapsed amid widespread internal revolt during the Red Turban Rebellion, whose Han Chinese leader would become the founding emperor of the Ming dynasty. A formal resumption of direct trade and contact with Europeans would not be seen until the 16th century, initiated by the Portuguese during the Age of Discovery. The first Portuguese explorer to land in southern China was Jorge Álvares, who in May 1513 arrived at Lintin Island in the Pearl River Delta to engage in trade. This was followed by Rafael Perestrello, a cousin of the wife of Christopher Columbus, who landed at Guangzhou in 1516 after a voyage from newly conquered Portuguese Malacca. Although the 1517 mission by Fernão Pires de Andrade ended in disaster and his imprisonment by Ming authorities, relations would be smoothed over by Leonel de Sousa, the first governor of the Portuguese trade colony at Macau, China, in the Luso-Chinese treaty of 1554. The writings of Gaspar da Cruz, Juan Gonzáles de Mendoza, and Antonio de Morga all impacted the Western view and understanding of China at the time, offering intricate details about its society and items of trade.\n\nThe Italian Jesuit missionary Matteo Ricci would be the first European invited into the Ming-era Forbidden City in Beijing (during the reign of the Wanli Emperor), where in 1602 he would publish his map of the world in Chinese that introduced the existence of the American continents to Chinese geographers. He arrived in Macau in 1582, when he began to learn the Chinese language and information about China's ancient culture, yet was unaware of the events that had transpired there since the end of the Franciscan missions in the mid 14th century and establishment of the Ming dynasty. Since that time the Islamic world presented an obstacle for the West in reaching East Asia and, barring the grand treasure voyages of the 15th-century admiral Zheng He, the Ming dynasty had largely pursued policies of isolationism that kept it from seeking far-flung diplomatic contacts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16316673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16316673", "title": "Flag of Baden", "text": "Flag of Baden\n\nThe flag of Baden displayed a combination of yellow and red, the heraldic colours of the former German state of Baden. \n\nA red-yellow was introduced as the flag of the Grand Duchy of Baden (1806–1918) in 1871. This was replaced with a yellow-red-yellow triband in 1891. Following the abolition of the monarchy at the end of World War I, the Republic of Baden was established, which continued to use this triband flag. After the Nazi Party came to power in Germany in 1933, the individual German states and their symbols were eventually suppressed. After World War II, the southern half of Baden became part of the French Occupation Zone and established as South Baden. South Baden used the yellow-red-yellow triband as its flag until the state's disestablishment in 1952, when it became part of the modern German state of Baden-Württemberg.\n\nThe flag is still a common sight in the Baden region today, as it is used by many private citizens.\n"}
{"id": "21042955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21042955", "title": "Forestry Practical Training Centre of Tabakoro", "text": "Forestry Practical Training Centre of Tabakoro\n\nThe Forestry Practical Training Centre of Tabakoro (French: \"Centre de formation pratique forestier de Tabakoro\") is a practical forestry training school located in Tabakoro, Sikasso Region, Mali, around east of the capitol, Bamako. The school's head office is located in Bamako.\n\n"}
{"id": "52488620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52488620", "title": "Froschgrundsee", "text": "Froschgrundsee\n\nFroschgrundsee also known as Schönstädtspeicher is a retention basin to protect the city of Coburg in Bavaria from the flooding of the Itz, Effelder, and the Grümpen. It lies in the municipality of Rödental in Upper Franconia. Froschgrundsee was completed in 1986 after four years of construction and cost 43 million DM in operations.\n"}
{"id": "21401689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21401689", "title": "Google Latitude", "text": "Google Latitude\n\nGoogle Latitude was a location-aware feature of Google Maps, developed by Google as a successor to its earlier SMS-based service Dodgeball. Latitude allowed a mobile phone user to allow certain people to view their current location. Via their own Google Account, the user's cell phone location was mapped on Google Maps. The user could control the accuracy and details of what each of the other users can see — an exact location could be allowed, or it could be limited to identifying the city only. For privacy, it could also be turned off by the user, or a location could be manually entered. Users had to explicitly opt into Latitude, and were only able to see the location of those friends who had decided to share their location with them.\n\nOn July 10, 2013, Google announced plans to shut down Latitude, and it was discontinued on August 9, 2013. After the feature moved to Google+ in between, Google incorporated Latitude's location sharing feature into Google Maps in March 2017.\n\nDodgeball was founded in 2000 by New York University students Dennis Crowley and Alex Rainert. The company was acquired by Google in 2005 and Crowley and Rainert hired, which led to the coinage of the term \"acquihire\". In April 2007, Crowley and Rainert left Google, with Crowley describing their experience there as \"incredibly frustrating\". After leaving Google, Crowley created a similar service known as Foursquare with the help of Naveen Selvadurai.\n\nDodgeball offered a facility to users by way of SMS. Dodgeball was available for the cities of Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, Los Angeles, Las Vegas, San Diego, Phoenix, Dallas–Fort Worth, Austin, Houston, New Orleans, Miami, Atlanta, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, New York City, Boston, Detroit, Chicago, Madison, Minneapolis–St. Paul and Denver.\n\nIn January 2009 Vic Gundotra, Vice President of Engineering at Google, announced that the company would \"discontinue Dodgeball.com in the next couple of months, after which this service will no longer be available.\" Dodgeball was shut down and succeeded in February 2009 by Google Latitude.\n\nWith Google Latitude, the service expanded to PC browsers (it used the Geolocation API as well as user-driven input) and automated location detection on mobile phones using cellular positioning, Wi-Fi positioning, and GPS.\n\nIn November 2009, Google announced a Latitude feature called \"Location History\" which stores and analyzes a user's location over time, for example attempting to identify a user's home and workplace. Web-based Location History is now provided by Google Maps.\n\nAt the end of May 2010, Google announced an API which allows applications to make use of Latitude data, with the user's explicit consent.\n\nIn February 2012 a Leaderboard feature was added that provides point scoring and score comparison with friends.\n\nGoogle Latitude was not available in Apple's Chinese App Store for download, but it might have been built into the Google Maps app.\n\nOn July 10, 2013 (with less than a month before its closure), Google announced plans to shut down Google Latitude on August 9, 2013. Google then offered location reporting on Google+, but this did not yet run on all the platforms that Google Maps does (BlackBerry, Windows Mobile, S60, etc.). Later it was fully migrated into Google Maps.\n\nGoogle Latitude was compatible with most devices running iOS, Android, BlackBerry OS, Windows Mobile, and Symbian S60.\nInitially Google stated on the Latitude page that it would be available for Java ME phones, but this claim was later removed from the site. On most platforms Latitude could continue to update the user's location in the background when the application was not in use, while on others it only updated the user's location when the application was in use.\n\nThe Sony Ericsson W995, C905, C903, C510, Elm and Satio mobile phones supported Google Latitude as part of their built-in Google Maps application. Although this was a Java ME application, it could not be downloaded for use with other mobile phones.\n\nAmid concerns over locational privacy, Google announced that Latitude overwrites a user's previous location with the new location data and does not keep logs of locations provided to the service.\n\nBy early 2011, Google Latitude optionally recorded a history of places visited and counts time spent at each place. This information was then used to display statistics such as \"Time At Work\", \"Time Spent At Home\" and \"Time Spent Out\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42484006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42484006", "title": "Heart of Men", "text": "Heart of Men\n\nHeart of Men (Reissued in Nollywood as Forbidden Fruit by Henrikesim Multimedia Concept for International distribution) is a 2009 Ghanaian Nigerian thriller film produced & directed by Frank Rajah Arase, and starring Majid Michel, John Dumelo, Prince David Osei and Yvonne Nelson. It received five nominations at the 6th Africa Movie Academy Awards.\n\n\nThe film was generally criticized for promoting nudity in films and introducing soft porn to Nigerian and Ghanaian home videos.\n\nIt is rated 3 out of 5 stars on Nollywood Reinvented who praised the quality, setting and musical score, but found the plot too complex and the sex scenes overdone.\n\n"}
{"id": "44033225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44033225", "title": "Housing Code of Russia", "text": "Housing Code of Russia\n\nThe Housing Code of Russia is the prime source of Law of the Russian Federation concerning Housing likes. The previous Housing code of the Russian Federation came into force on 2004.\n\nHousing Code consists of nine chapters, eighteen chapters and 191 articles.\n\nChapter 1: Basics. housing legislation Chapter 2: What's housing rights. housing Fund Chapter 3 Transfer of premises in residential premises and non-residential premises in the living room \nChapter 4: Conversion of and alterations to dwelling\n\nChapter 5: The rights and obligations of the owner of housing and other living room in its own citizens Chapter 6: Common property owners in an apartment house. General meeting of owners\n\nChapter 7: Reasons and procedure of the premises under the social contract of employment \nChapter 8: Social rent premises\n\nChapter 9 Dwellings specialized housing \nChapter 10: Provision of specialized premises and their use\n\nChapter 11: Organization and operation of housing and housing co-operatives Chapter 12: The legal status of members of housing cooperatives\n\nChapter 13: Establishment and operation of homeowners Chapter 14: The legal status of members of the homeowners association\n\nThe choice of a method for controlling a block of flats. General requirements for the management activities of an apartment house. Council block of flats. Contract management of the apartment house management of an apartment house, located in the state or municipal property Direct management of an apartment house owners of the premises in such a house Creating local government conditions for the management of apartment buildings\n\n"}
{"id": "1160693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160693", "title": "Intermarium", "text": "Intermarium\n\nMiędzymorze (), known in English as Intermarium, was a plan pursued after World War I by Polish leader Józef Piłsudski for a federation of Central and Eastern European countries. Invited to join the proposed federation were the Baltic states (Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia), Finland, Belarus, Ukraine, Hungary, Romania, Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia.\n\nThe Polish name \"Międzymorze\" (from \"między\", \"between, among\"; and \"morze\", \"sea\"), meaning \"Between-seas\", was rendered into Latin as \"Intermarium.\"\n\nThe proposed federation was meant to emulate the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, stretching from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea, that, from the end of the 16th century to the end of the 18th, had united the Kingdom of Poland and the Grand Duchy of Lithuania.\n\nIntermarium complemented Piłsudski's other geopolitical vision—Prometheism, whose goal was the dismemberment of the Russian Empire and that Empire's divestment of its territorial acquisitions.\n\nIntermarium was, however, perceived by some Lithuanians as a threat to their newly established independence, and by some Ukrainians as a threat to their aspirations for independence, and while France backed the proposal, it was opposed by Russia and by most other Western powers.\n\nWithin two decades of the failure of Piłsudski's grand scheme, all the countries that he had viewed as candidates for membership in the Intermarium federation had fallen to the Soviet Union or Nazi Germany, except for Finland (which suffered some territorial losses in the 1939–40 Winter War with the Soviet Union).\n\nA Polish–Lithuanian union and military alliance had come about as a mutual response to a common threat posed by the Teutonic Order. The alliance was first established in 1385 by the marriage of Poland's Queen Jadwiga and Lithuania's Gediminid dynasty in the person of Grand Duke Jogaila, who became King Władysław II Jagiełło of Poland.\n\nA longer-lasting federation was subsequently established via the creation of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, an arrangement that lasted until the late-18th-century Partitions of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.\n\nUnder the Commonwealth, proposals were advanced for the establishment of an expanded, Polish–Lithuanian-\"Muscovite\" or Polish–Lithuanian–\"Ruthenian\", Commonwealth. These proposals were never implemented.\n\nBetween the November and January Uprisings, in 1832–61, the idea of resurrecting an updated Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth was advocated by Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski, residing in exile at the Hôtel Lambert in Paris.\n\nIn his youth Czartoryski had fought against Russia in the Polish-Russian War of 1792 and would have done so again in the Kościuszko Uprising of 1794, had he not been arrested at Brussels on his way back to Poland. Subsequently, in 1795 he and his younger brother had been commanded to enter the Russian army, and Catherine the Great had been so favorably impressed with them that she had restored to them part of their confiscated estates. Adam Czartoryski had subsequently served Emperors Paul and Alexander I as a diplomat and foreign minister, during the Napoleonic Wars establishing an anti-French coalition. Czartoryski had been one of the leaders of the Polish November 1830 Uprising and, after its suppression by Russia, had been sentenced to death but eventually allowed to go into exile in France.\n\nIn Paris the \"visionary\" statesman and former friend, confidant and \"de facto\" foreign minister of Russia's Emperor Alexander I acted as the \"uncrowned king and unacknowledged foreign minister\" of a nonexistent Poland.\n\nIn his book, \"Essai sur la diplomatie\" (Essay on Diplomacy), completed in 1827 but published only in 1830, Czartoryski observed that, \"Having extended her sway south and west, and being by the nature of things unreachable from the east and north, Russia becomes a source of constant threat to Europe.\" He argued that she would have done better, cultivating \"friends rather than slaves.\" He also identified a future threat from Prussia and urged the incorporation of East Prussia into a resurrected Poland.\n\nHis diplomatic efforts anticipated Piłsudski's Prometheist project in linking efforts for Polish independence with similar movements of other subjugated nations in Europe and in the east, as far as the Caucasus.\n\nCzartoryski aspired above all to reconstitute—with French, British and Turkish support—a Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth federated with the Czechs, Slovaks, Hungarians, Romanians and all the South Slavs of the future Yugoslavia. Poland, in his concept, could have mediated the conflicts between Hungary and the Slavs, and between Hungary and Romania. The plan seemed achievable during the period of national revolutions in 1848–49 but foundered on lack of western support, on Hungarian intransigence toward the Czechs, Slovaks and Romanians, and on the rise of German nationalism.\n\n\"Nevertheless,\" concludes Dziewanowski, \"the Prince's endeavor constitutes a [vital] link [between] the 16th-century Jagiellon [federative prototype] and Józef Piłsudski's federative-Prometheist program [that was to follow after World War I].\"\n\nJózef Piłsudski's strategic goal was to resurrect an updated, quasi-democratic, form of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, while working for the disintegration of the Russian Empire, and later the Soviet Union, into its ethnic constituents. (The latter was his Prometheist project.) Piłsudski saw an Intermarium federation as a counterweight to Russian and German imperialism.\n\nAccording to Dziewanowski, the plan was never expressed in systematic fashion but instead relied on Piłsudski's pragmatic instincts. According to British scholar George Sanford, about the time of the Polish-Soviet War of 1920 Piłsudski recognized that the plan was not feasible.\n\nPiłsudski's plan faced opposition from virtually all quarters. The Soviets, whose sphere of influence was directly threatened, worked to thwart the Intermarium agenda. The Allied Powers assumed that Bolshevism was only a temporary threat and did not want to see their important (from the balance-of-power viewpoint) traditional ally, Russia, weakened. They resented Piłsudski's refusal to aid their White allies, viewed Piłsudski with suspicion, saw his plans as unrealistic, and urged Poland to confine itself to areas of clear-cut Polish ethnicity. The Lithuanians, who had re-established their independence in 1918, were unwilling to join; the Ukrainians, similarly seeking independence, likewise feared that Poland might again subjugate them; and the Belarusians, who had little national consciousness, were not interested either in independence or in Pilsudski's proposals of union. The chances for Piłsudski's scheme were not enhanced by a series of post-World War I wars and border conflicts between Poland and its neighbors in disputed territories—the Polish-Soviet War, the Polish–Lithuanian War, the Polish–Ukrainian War, and border conflicts between Poland and Czechoslovakia.\n\nPiłsudski's concept was opposed within Poland itself, where National Democracy leader Roman Dmowski argued for an ethnically homogeneous Poland in which minorities would be Polonized. Many Polish politicians, including Dmowski, opposed the idea of a multicultural federation, preferring instead to work for a unitary Polish nation-state. Sanford has described Pilsudski's policies after his resumption of power in 1926 as similarly focusing on the Polonization of the country's Eastern Slavic minorities and on the centralization of power.\n\nWhile some scholars accept at face value the democratic principles claimed by Piłsudski for his federative plan, others view such claims with skepticism, pointing out a coup d'état in 1926 when Piłsudski assumed nearly dictatorial powers. In particular, his project is viewed unfavorably by most Ukrainian historians, with Oleksandr Derhachov arguing that the federation would have created a greater Poland in which the interests of non-Poles, especially Ukrainians, would have received short shrift.\n\nSome historians hold that Piłsudski, who argued that \"There can be no independent Poland without an independent Ukraine,\" may have been more interested in splitting Ukraine from Russia than in assuring Ukrainians' welfare. He did not hesitate to use military force to expand Poland's borders to Galicia and Volhynia, crushing a Ukrainian attempt at self-determination in disputed territories east of the Bug River which contained a substantial Polish presence (a Polish majority mainly in cities such as Lwów, surrounded by a rural Ukrainian majority).\n\nSpeaking of Poland's future frontiers, Piłsudski said: \"All that we can gain in the west depends on the Entente—on the extent to which it may wish to squeeze Germany,\" while in the east \"there are doors that open and close, and it depends on who forces them open and how far.\" In the eastern chaos, the Polish forces set out to expand as far as feasible. On the other hand, Poland had no interest in joining the western intervention in the Russian Civil War or in conquering Russia itself.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Polish-Soviet War (1919–21), Piłsudski's concept of a federation of Central and Eastern European countries, based on a Polish-Ukrainian axis, lost any chance of realization.\n\nPiłsudski next contemplated a federation or alliance with the Baltic and Balkan states. This plan envisioned a Central European union including Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Scandinavia, the Baltic states, Italy, Romania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and Greece—thus stretching not only west-east from the Baltic to the Black Sea, but north-south from the Arctic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea. This project also failed: Poland was distrusted by Czechoslovakia and Lithuania; and while it had relatively good relations with the other countries, they had tensions with their neighbors, making it virtually impossible to create in Central Europe a large block of countries that all had good relations with each other. In the end, in place of a large federation, only a Polish-Romanian alliance was established, beginning in 1921. In comparison, Czechoslovakia had more success with its Little Entente (1920–38) with Romania and Yugoslavia, supported by France. \n\nPiłsudski died in 1935. A later version of his concept was attempted by interwar Polish Foreign Minister Józef Beck, a Piłsudski protégé, whose proposal during the late 1930s of a \"Third Europe\"—an alliance of Poland, Romania and Hungary—also gained little ground before World War II supervened.\n\nDespite the Polish-Soviet Non-Aggression Act of 1932 the Kremlin joined in alliance with Nazi Germany to divide central and eastern Europe into two parts for each power to control. The failure to create a strong counterweight to Germany and the Soviet Union, such as Piłsudski's \"Międzymorze\", according to some historians, doomed the prospective member-countries to of World War II.\n\nThe concept of a \"Central European Union\"—a triangular geopolitical entity anchored in the Baltic, Black, and Adriatic or Aegean Seas—was revived during World War II in Władysław Sikorski's Polish Government in Exile. A first step toward its implementation—1942 discussions between the Greek, Yugoslav, Polish and Czechoslovak governments in exile regarding prospective Greek-Yugoslav and Polish-Czechoslovak federations—ultimately foundered on Soviet opposition, which led to Czech hesitation and Allied indifference or hostility. A declaration of the Polish Underground State from that period called for the creation of a Central European federal union, without domination by any single state.\n\nOther forms of the concept have survived into the late 20th and early 21st centuries, including regional-security proposals that were not framed as being Polish-led. Poland's neighbors, however, continued to perceive the idea as imperialist.\n\nAfter the Warsaw Pact collapsed, Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic joined NATO in 1999, paving the way for other post-Communist nations to also join; and Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia, in 2004. Ukraine had also expressed interest in joining under the Viktor Yushchenko administration, while the Yanukovych government of Ukraine had no such desire.\n\nIn 2004 Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Slovenia, Hungary, and the Baltic states joined the European Union; in 2007, Romania and Bulgaria; in 2013, Croatia.\n\nOn 12 May 2011 the Visegrad Group countries (Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary) announced the formation of a battlegroup under the command of Poland. The battlegroup would be in place by 2016 as an independent force and would not be part of the NATO command. In addition, starting in 2013, the four countries would begin military exercises together under the auspices of the NATO Response Force. Some scholars see this as a first step toward close cooperation in the Central Europe region.\n\nOn 6 August 2015 Polish President Andrzej Duda, in his inaugural address, announced plans to build a regional alliance of Central European states, modeled on the Intermarium concept. The Three Seas Initiative met for its first summit in Dubrovnik, Croatia in 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7722440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7722440", "title": "J'ai déjà vu ça dans tes yeux", "text": "J'ai déjà vu ça dans tes yeux\n\n\"\" (English translation: \"I've Already Seen That in Your Eyes\") was the Luxembourgish entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1979, performed in French by American-French singer, actress and former Playboy model Jeane Manson. Manson was born in the United States but relocated to Paris in 1974. \"J'ai déjà vu ça dans tes yeux\" was included on Manson's third studio album \"Fly to New York City\".\n\nThe song is a blues influenced ballad, with Manson describing a series of romantic visions (including one of a family) to her lover before telling him that \"I've already seen that in your eyes\" - that is to say, she can see their future together; \"\" (\"The two of us—if you want to\").\n\nThe song was performed thirteenth on the night (following Belgium's Micha Marah with \"Hey Nana\" and preceding the Netherlands' Xandra with \"Colorado\"). At the close of voting, it had received 44 points, placing 13th in a field of 19.\n\nIt was succeeded as Luxembourgish representative at the 1980 Contest by Sophie & Magaly with \"Papa Pingouin\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44073008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44073008", "title": "Japanese people who conserve Article 9", "text": "Japanese people who conserve Article 9\n\nThe Japanese people who conserve Article 9 are a group of people who were among the favourites to win the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nArticle 9 of the Japanese Constitution is the section of the Japanese constitution that states:\n\nOver the years, there have been different attempts to change or abolish Article 9, which was adopted in 1947. Shinzō Abe, Prime Minister of Japan since late 2012, is a supporter of making Article 9 less restrictive. In January 2013, Naomi Takasu from Zama, Kanagawa emailed the Norwegian Nobel Committee to promote Article 9 as a means to protect children. She tried to get Article 9 itself nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize, but since she didn't have the time to organise protests, she campaigned from home, by email. Joined by other people from Zama and from Sagamihara, she formed the \"Organizing Committee for the Nobel Peace Prize for Article 9 of the Constitution.\", which by August 2013 had gathered 24,000 signatures to support the nomination.\n\nAfter receiving the petition, the Committee replied that the Prize can only be awarded to people or organizations, disqualifying the Article 9 nomination. Takasu then changed the nomination to be about the Japanese people who want to keep Article 9. Since not everyone can make nominations for the Prize, she couldn't officially nominate the group herself. A number of Japanese professors with the right qualifications supported her cause and submitted the revised nomination.\n\nThe group has continued to grow in Japan and receive support from all over the world. By June 2014, about 80,000 people had signed the petition. Notable members include Yōichi Komori, professor at the University of Tokyo and leader of the group \"Kyujo no Kai\" (\"Association of Article 9\"). Political reactions to the group and the chances of a Nobel Prize for it have been mixed.\n\nIn the days running up to the announcement of the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, there was widespread speculation that the so-called \"Japanese people who conserve Article 9\" group were favourites to win the prize. In the end, the winners were Kailash Satyarthi from India and Malala Yousafzai from Pakistan. \n\nThe speculation about their chances was fueled when Kristian Berg Harpviken, director of the Peace Research Institute Oslo, who each year announces his shortlist of favourites for the prize, named the group as his tip for 2014 in his revised list, posted 3 October 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "9198268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9198268", "title": "Jwaneng Airport", "text": "Jwaneng Airport\n\nJwaneng Airport is an airport serving Jwaneng, a town in the Southern District of Botswana. It is owned by Debswana, which also owns the Jwaneng diamond mine. There is no scheduled airline service.\n\nThe Jwaneng non-directional beacon (Ident: JWN) is located on the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5362471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5362471", "title": "Keturi vėjai", "text": "Keturi vėjai\n\nKeturi vėjai (\"The Four Winds\") was a Lithuanian literary movement and literary magazine, active from 1924 to 1928.\n\nThe \"Keturi vėjai\" movement began with the publication of \"The Prophet of the Four Winds\" by Kazys Binkis (1893–1942). The theoretical basis of \"Keturi vėjai\" initially was futurism which arrived through Russia from the West, and it later was influenced by cubism, dadaism, surrealism, unanimism, and German expressionism. The most influential futurist for Lithuanian writers was Russian poet Vladimir Mayakovsky. Members of \"Keturi vėjai\" included founder Kazys Binkis, Antanas Rimydis (b. 1905), Juozas Tysliava (b. 1902), Salys Šemerys (b. 1898), Juozas Žengė (b. 1899), and Teofilis Tilvytis (b. 1903).\n\nPoet Adomas Jakštas was a fierce critic of the \"Keturi vėjai\" movement. He objected to its literary principles, aesthetics, and philosophy. The only poet of that generation not attracted to \"Keturi vėjai\" was Stasys Santvaras, who was more interested in symbolism and expressionism than in modern forms of poetry.\n\nThe poetry of dadaist Pranas Morkūnas (1900–1941) has been characterized as a continuation of rebellion started by \"Keturi vėjai\" against traditional poetry.\n\nThe Lithuanian school \"Keturi vėjai\" in Dublin, Ireland is named after the literary movement.\n"}
{"id": "44627070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44627070", "title": "Kolegjet profesionale, private \"Medicom\"", "text": "Kolegjet profesionale, private \"Medicom\"\n\nKolegjet profesionale, private \"Medicom\", is a defunct Higher Education institution (HEI) in Tirana, Albania. On 6 August 2014 its licence was permanently revoked by the Albanian Ministry of Education and Sports (MAS), through decision no. 539 of the Albanian Council of Ministers, for not fulfilling the minimum legal requirements of higher education.\n"}
{"id": "10134807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10134807", "title": "Kočani Orkestar", "text": "Kočani Orkestar\n\nKočani orkestar (in Macedonian: \"Кочани оркестар\") also credited under the names: \"Kocani orkestar\", \"Kocani Orchestra\", \"Kochani orkestar\" and \"Kochani Orchestra\" is a Macedonian Romani brass band from Kočani, Macedonia led till 2000 by Naat Veliov. \nKočani orkestar are among the funkiest exponents of the Balkan brass band style which is found across ex-Yugoslavia and is a direct descendent of the music once played by Turkish army bands. They come from the city of Kočani, in Macedonia. Their music is based on Gypsy tunes from various parts of the Balkans and on Turkish rhythms, with a sprinkle of Latin flavour.\n\nTheir song \"Siki, siki baba\" is featured on the for the movie although it has no connection to the Music of Kazakhstan. Together with the Romani singer Esma Redžepova, Naat Veliov has filed a lawsuit for the producers of the movie for an unauthorised use of the song.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "306707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306707", "title": "Lempo", "text": "Lempo\n\nLempo is a sort of fiend from Finnish folklore and mythology. Lempo is the god of love and fertility in Finnish mythology.\n\nAfter Christianity came to Finland, the reputation of Lempo worsened: (s)he is portrayed in the folklore usually as erratic spirit, as love can be capricious, even dangerous, and it could even take control of a being and turn them to destruction.\n\nLempo brought down the hero Väinämöinen with the help of his two demon cohorts, Hiisi and Paha. \n\nThe words \"lempo\" and \"hiisi\" are also used as very mild swear words in the Finnish language. \"Piru\" is a slightly stronger swear word. This is also work of Christians, they weren't originally bad words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "985229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=985229", "title": "List of world records in rowing", "text": "List of world records in rowing\n\nThe rowing world records are the fastest times set over the international rowing distance of 2000 m. They are believed to be correct as of June 18, 2017.\n\nRowing times are strongly affected by weather conditions, and to a lesser extent by water temperature – the majority of these times were set in warm water with a strong tailwind. World best rowing times have also decreased because of improvements in technology to both the boats and the oars, along with improvements in the conditioning of the rowers.\n\nBecause environmental conditions have a strong impact on boat speed, FISA recognizes world best times instead of world records. A world best time is one recorded on a regatta course that has previously held the World Championships, Olympic Games, or World Cup since 1980. A number of record times were set at the 2005 World Championships held on the Nagara River at Kaizu, Gifu Prefecture, Japan, but due to a fast current caused by heavy rainfall from the remnants of Typhoon Mawar, FISA declared that the race results were not eligible to be considered as world best times.\n\nThere is a category for lightweight rowing. For men the crew average, wearing racing kit, cannot exceed and no rower may be over . For women the limits are and .\n\nHamish Bond and Eric Murray hold the record for most consecutive wins with 69.\n\nThe greatest distance rowed in 24 hours is 342 km (212.5 miles) by Hannes Obreno, Pierre de Loof, Tim Brys, Mathieu Foucaud, Thijs Obreno, Giel Vanschoenbeek, Arjan van Belle and Thibaut Schollaert (all Belgians) on the Watersportbaan in Ghent, Belgium on 2–3 October 2014.\n\nAll eight participants are members of a student rowing club called VSR (\"Vlaamse Studentenvereniging der Roeiers\", translates to Flanders Student Rowing Club).\n\nThe greatest distance rowed in 1 hour is 17,555 m (10.91 miles) by the Delftse Studenten Roeiverening Proteus-Eretes during the Hour boat race on 17 December 2017.\n\n<br>These results are based on a standard distance of 2,000 meters.<br>\n\nNote: the standard machine for indoor records is the Concept2 indoor rower. \"Split\" refers to the average time to complete 500 m (i.e. the 2000 m time divided by 4).\n\n"}
{"id": "2337036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2337036", "title": "Modern Arab Association", "text": "Modern Arab Association\n\nThe Modern Arab Association is an Egyptian publishing house. Established in 1960, it published school books till 1984, when it started publishing a various collection of novel series in the Arabic language under the name \"Egyptian Pocket Novels\", (also known as Rewayat). The series was particularly popular \"during the 1980s and 1990s\" The Modern Arab Association has been the official publisher and distributor of Rewayat to all over the Arabic-speaking world. The publishing house's owner and current manager is Hamdi Mustafa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4651817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4651817", "title": "Nextcom R5000-HD", "text": "Nextcom R5000-HD\n\nThe Nextcom R5000-HD is a popular Windows-based system for digitally capturing HD (high-definition) and SD (standard-definition) TV content from satellite TV and cable TV sources. A modification is required to the set-top box, giving it a USB 2.0 output that is connected to a PC. The digital video recorder (DVR) and companion personal video recorder (PVR) software runs on any Windows 2000, Windows XP, Windows 7 and Windows 10 system and can record just about any content (that is subscribed or free-to-air DTV) to hard disk or D-VHS tape. Programming can be encoded in MPEG-2, or MPEG-4 type AVC/H.264 formats. MPEG transport streams compliant with the ISO 13818-1 specification are created.\n\nThe R5000-HD differentiates itself from other DVR devices in that the captured MPEG data is an exact bit-for-bit replica of what is broadcast and encoded by the content provider. Other DVRs may encode the analog or composite signals from set-top box output jacks back into MPEG-2 digital data for PC storage, or can only digitally capture (without re-encoding) signals via over-the-air tuners. This significantly limits the amount content that can be recorded in a high-quality format. Decoding into the analog domain and then re-encoding back to digital (compression) is a lossy process resulting in visual and aural artifacts. Furthermore, satellite providers have access to very expensive state-of-the-art MPEG encoders that can provide unsurpassed quality at very low bitrate. It is advantageous to keep programs in this original form since it not only preserves quality but saves on storage space.\n\nCompanion PVR software allows users to program events using interactive TVelectronic program guides (EPGs) such as Zap2it and TitanTV. An especially useful feature is TitanTV remote scheduling which allows users to program events from anywhere they can get Internet access. The R5000-HD PVR software automatically retrieves these events from a central server. The R5000-HD also supports third-party PVRs like SageTV.\n\nDVR systems such as the R5000-HD are alternatives to stand-alone devices such as TiVo and are increasingly popular with the growing number of home theater PC users. Although such solutions require more technical expertise to set up and use, they offer the ultimate in flexibility as to how media content is stored and distributed within a household.\n\n"}
{"id": "23372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23372", "title": "Palau", "text": "Palau\n\nPalau (, historically Belau, Palaos, or Pelew), officially the Republic of Palau (), is an island country located in the western Pacific Ocean. The country contains approximately 340 islands, forming the western chain of the Caroline Islands in Micronesia, and has an area of . The most populous island is Koror. The capital Ngerulmud is located on the nearby island of Babeldaob, in Melekeok State. Palau shares maritime boundaries with the Philippines, Indonesia, and the Federated States of Micronesia.\n\nThe country was originally settled approximately 3,000 years ago by migrants from the Philippines and sustained a Negrito population until around 900 years ago. The islands were first explored by Europeans in the 16th century, and were made part of the Spanish East Indies in 1574. Following Spain's defeat in the Spanish–American War in 1898, the islands were sold to Imperial Germany in 1899 under the terms of the German–Spanish Treaty, where they were administered as part of German New Guinea, although the islands were already represented in the Malolos Congress of the revolutionary First Philippine Republic. The Imperial Japanese Navy conquered Palau during World War I, and the islands were later made a part of the Japanese-ruled South Pacific Mandate by the League of Nations. During World War II, skirmishes, including the major Battle of Peleliu, were fought between American and Japanese troops as part of the Mariana and Palau Islands campaign. Along with other Pacific Islands, Palau was made a part of the United States-governed Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands in 1947. Having voted against joining the Federated States of Micronesia in 1979, the islands gained full sovereignty in 1994 under a Compact of Free Association with the United States.\n\nPolitically, Palau is a presidential republic in free association with the United States, which provides defense, funding, and access to social services. Legislative power is concentrated in the bicameral Palau National Congress. Palau's economy is based mainly on tourism, subsistence agriculture and fishing, with a significant portion of gross national product (GNP) derived from foreign aid. The country uses the United States dollar as its currency. The islands' culture mixes Micronesian, Melanesian, Asian, and Western elements. Ethnic Palauans, the majority of the population, are of mixed Micronesian, Melanesian, and Austronesian descent. A smaller proportion of the population is descended from Japanese and Filipino settlers. The country's two official languages are Palauan (a member of the Austronesian language family) and English, with Japanese, Sonsorolese, and Tobian recognized as regional languages.\n\nThe name for the islands in the Palauan language, \"Belau\", likely derives from either the Palauan word for \"village\", \"beluu\", or from \"aibebelau\" (\"indirect replies\"), relating to a creation myth. The name \"Palau\" entered the English language from the Spanish \"Los Palaos\", via the German \"Palau\". An archaic name for the islands in English was the \"Pelew Islands\". \"Palau\" is unrelated to \"Pulau\", which is a Malay word meaning \"island\" found in a number of place names in the region.\n\nPalau was originally settled between the 3rd and 2nd millennia BCE, most likely from Indonesia or the Philippines.\n\nThe islands sustained a population of short-statured Melanesian or Pygmy people until the 12th century, when they were replaced. The modern Micronesian population, judging by its language, may have come from the Sunda Islands through the islands in the Philippines.\n\nSonsorol, part of the Southwest Islands, an island chain approximately from the main island chain of Palau, was sighted by Europeans as early as 1522, when the Spanish mission of the \"Trinidad\", the flagship of Ferdinand Magellan's voyage of circumnavigation, sighted two small islands around the 5th parallel north, naming them \"San Juan\".\nAfter the conquest of the Philippines in 1565 by the Spanish Empire, the archipelago of Palau became part of the territory of the Captaincy General of the Philippines, established in 1574 as part of the Spanish East Indies with the capital based in the colonial centre in Manila. However, the Spanish presence only began to express with evangelization, began at the end of the 17th century, and its dominance began to take shape in the 18th century.\n\nThe conscious discovery of Palau came a century later in 1697, when a group of Palauans were shipwrecked on the Philippine island of Samar to the northwest. They were interviewed by the Czech missionary Paul Klein on 28 December 1696. Klein was able to draw the first map of Palau based on the Palauans' representation of their home islands that they made with an arrangement of 87 pebbles on the beach. Klein reported his findings to the Jesuit Superior General in a letter sent in June 1697, equaling to the discovery of Palau.\n\nThis map and the letter caused a vast interest in the new islands. Another letter written by Fr. Andrés Serrano was sent to Europe in 1705, essentially copying the information given by Klein. The letters resulted in three unsuccessful Jesuit attempts to travel to Palau from Spanish Philippines in 1700, 1708 and 1709. The islands were first visited by the Jesuit expedition led by Francisco Padilla on 30 November 1710. The expedition ended with the stranding of the two priests, Jacques Du Beron and Joseph Cortyl, on the coast of Sonsorol, because the mother ship \"Santísima Trinidad\" was driven to Mindanao by a storm. Another ship was sent from Guam in 1711 to save them only to capsize, causing the death of three more Jesuit priests. The failure of these missions gave Palau the original Spanish name \"Islas Encantadas\" (Enchanted Islands). Despite these early misfortunes, the Spanish Empire later came to dominate the islands.\n\nBritish traders became prominent visitors to Palau in the 18th century, followed by expanding Spanish influence in the 19th century. Palau, under the name \"Palaos\", was included in the Malolos Congress, the first revolutionary congress in the Philippines which aimed to become fully independent from colonialists. Palau, at the time, was part of the Philippines. Palau had one appointed member to the congress, becoming the only group of islands in the entire Caroline Islands to be granted high representation in a non-colonial Philippine congress. The congress also supported the right of Palau to self-determination if ever it wishes to pursue such a path. During World War I, the Japanese Empire annexed the islands after seizing them from Germany in 1914. Following World War I, the League of Nations formally placed the islands under Japanese administration as part of the South Pacific Mandate. In World War II, Palau was used by Japan to support its 1941 invasion of the Philippines, which succeeded in 1942. The invasion overthrew the American-installed Commonwealth government in the Philippines, and installed the Japanese-backed Second Philippine Republic in 1943.\n\nDuring World War II, the United States captured Palau from Japan in 1944 after the costly Battle of Peleliu, when more than 2,000 Americans and 10,000 Japanese were killed. In 1945–1946, the United States re-established control on the Philippines, and managed Palau through the Philippine capital of Manila. By the later half of 1946, however, the Philippines was granted full independence with the formation of the Third Republic of the Philippines, shifting the US Far West Pacific capital to Guam. Palau passed formally to the United States under United Nations auspices in 1947 as part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands established pursuant to Security Council Resolution 21.\n\nFour of the Trust Territory districts joined together and formed the Federated States of Micronesia in 1979, but the districts of Palau and the Marshall Islands declined to participate. Palau, the westernmost cluster of the Carolines, instead opted for independent status in 1978, which was widely supported by the Philippines, Taiwan, and Japan. It approved a new constitution and became the Republic of Palau on 1 January 1981. It signed a Compact of Free Association with the United States in 1982. In the same year, Palau became one of the founding members of the Nauru Agreement. After eight referenda and an amendment to the Palauan constitution, the Compact was ratified in 1993. The Compact went into effect on 1 October 1994, marking Palau \"de jure\" independent, although it had been \"de facto\" independent since 25 May 1994, when the trusteeship ended. Formal diplomatic relations with the Philippines was re-established in the same year, although the two nations already had diplomatic back channels prior to 1994. Palau also became a member of the Pacific Islands Forum.\n\nLegislation making Palau an \"offshore\" financial center was passed by the Senate in 1998. In 2001, Palau passed its first bank regulation and anti-money laundering laws. In 2005, Palau led the Micronesia challenge, which would conserve 30% of near-shore coastal waters and 20% of forest land of participating countries by 2020. In 2012, the Rock Islands of Palau was declared as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In 2015, Palau became a member of the Climate Vulnerable Forum under the chairmanship of the Philippines, and at the same time, the country officially protected 80% of its water resources, becoming the first country to do so. The protection of its water resources made significant increases in the country's economy in less than two years. In 2017, the nation became the first to establish an eco-promise, known as the \"Palau Pledge\", which are stamped on local and foreign passports. In 2018, Palau and the Philippines began re-connecting their economic and diplomatic relations. The Philippines has supported Palau to become an observer state in ASEAN, as Palau also has Southeast Asian ethnic origins.\n\nPalau is a democratic republic. The President of Palau is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the government, while legislative power is vested in both the government and the Palau National Congress. The judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature. Palau adopted a constitution in 1981.\n\nThe governments of the United States and Palau concluded a Compact of Free Association in 1986, similar to compacts that the United States had entered into with the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands. The compact entered into force on 1 October 1994, concluding Palau's transition from trusteeship to independence as the last portion of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands to secure its independence pursuant to Security Council Resolution 956.\n\nThe Compact of Free Association between the United States and Palau sets forth the free and voluntary association of their governments. It primarily focuses on the issues of government, economic, security and defense relations. Palau has no independent military, relying on the United States for its defense. Under the compact, the American military was granted access to the islands for 50 years. The U.S. Navy role is minimal, limited to a handful of Navy Seabees (construction engineers). The U.S. Coast Guard patrols in national waters.\n\nAs a sovereign nation, Palau conducts its own foreign relations. Since independence, Palau has established diplomatic relations with a number of nations, including many of its Pacific neighbors, like Micronesia and the Philippines. On 29 November 1994, the United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 963 recommending Palau's admission to the United Nations. The United Nations General Assembly approved admission for Palau pursuant to Resolution 49/63 on 15 December 1994. Palau has since joined several other international organizations. In September 2006, Palau hosted the first Taiwan-Pacific Allies Summit. Its President has made official visits to other Pacific countries, including Japan.\n\nThe United States maintains a diplomatic delegation and an embassy in Palau, but most aspects of the countries' relationship have to do with Compact-funded projects, which are the responsibility of the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Insular Affairs.\n\nIn international politics, Palau often votes with the United States with respect to United Nations General Assembly resolutions.\n\nPalau is a member of the Nauru Agreement.\n\nIn 1981, Palau voted for the world's first nuclear-free constitution. This constitution banned the use, storage and disposal of nuclear, toxic chemical, gas and biological weapons without first being approved by a ¾ majority in a referendum. This ban delayed Palau's transition to independence, because while negotiating the Compact, the U.S. insisted on the option to operate nuclear propelled vessels and store nuclear weapons within the territory, prompting campaigns for independence and denuclearisation. After several referendums that failed to achieve a ¾ majority, the people of Palau finally approved the Compact in 1994.\n\nThe Philippines, a neighboring ally of Palau to the west, has expressed its intent to back Palau if ever it wishes to join ASEAN.\n\nIn June 2009, Palau announced that it would accept up to seventeen Uyghurs who had previously been detained by the American military at Guantanamo Bay, with some American compensation for the cost of their upkeep.\n\nOnly one of the Uyghurs initially agreed to resettlement, but by the end of October, six of the seventeen had been transferred to Palau. An aid agreement with the United States, finalized in January 2010, was reported to be unrelated to the Uyghur agreement.\n\nPalau is divided into sixteen states (until 1984 called municipalities). These are listed below with their areas (in square kilometers) and 2012 Census populations:\n\nHistorically, Palau's Rock Islands have been part of the State of Koror.\n\nPalau's Division of Marine Law Enforcement patrols the nation's 230,000 square mile exclusive economic zone. They operate two long range patrol boats, the \"Remeliik\" and the \"Kedam\", to hunt for poachers and unlicensed fishermen. Smaller boats are used for littoral operations. They are based on Koror.\n\nPalau's territory consists of an archipelago located in the Pacific Ocean. Its most populous islands are Angaur, Babeldaob, Koror and Peleliu. The latter three lie together within the same barrier reef, while Angaur is an oceanic island several miles to the south. About two-thirds of the population lives on Koror.\n\nThe coral atoll of Kayangel is north of these islands, while the uninhabited Rock Islands (about 200) are west of the main island group. A remote group of six islands, known as the Southwest Islands, some from the main islands, make up the states of Hatohobei and Sonsorol.\n\nPalau has a tropical rainforest climate with an annual mean temperature of . Rainfall is heavy throughout the year, averaging . The average humidity is 82% and, although rain falls more frequently between July and October, there is still much sunshine.\n\nTyphoons are rare, as Palau lies outside the main typhoon zone. The strongest typhoon that struck Palau since reliable records was Typhoon Haiyan in 2013. A mandatory emergency evacuation was issued for Kayangel. A storm surge damaged several houses. Despite residents' refusal to evacuate safely, no fatalities or major injuries were reported.\n\nWhile much of Palau remains free of environmental degradation, areas of concern include illegal dynamite fishing, inadequate solid waste disposal facilities in Koror and extensive sand and coral dredging in the Palau lagoon. As with other Pacific island nations, rising sea level presents a major environmental threat. Inundation of low-lying areas threatens coastal vegetation, agriculture, and an already insufficient water supply. Wastewater treatment is a problem, along with the handling of toxic waste from fertilizers and biocides.\n\nSaltwater crocodiles are also indigenous to Palau and occur in varying numbers throughout the various mangroves and in parts of the rock islands. Although this species is generally considered extremely dangerous, there has only been one fatal human attack in Palau within modern history, and that was in the 1960s. In Palau, the largest crocodile measured in at .\n\nThe nation is also vulnerable to earthquakes, volcanic activity, and tropical storms. Palau already has a problem with inadequate water supply and limited agricultural areas to support its population.\n\nOn 5 November 2005, President Tommy E. Remengesau, Jr. took the lead on a regional environmental initiative called the Micronesia challenge, which would conserve 30% of near-shore coastal waters and 20% of forest land by 2020. Following Palau, the initiative was joined by the Federated States of Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and the U.S. territories of Guam and Northern Mariana Islands. Together, this combined region represents nearly 5% of the marine area of the Pacific Ocean and 7% of its coastline.\n\nOn 25 September 2009, Palau announced that it would create the world's first shark sanctuary. Palau banned all commercial shark fishing within the waters of its exclusive economic zone (EEZ). The sanctuary protects about of ocean, a similar size to France. President Johnson Toribiong announced the sanctuary at a meeting of the United Nations. President Toribiong proposed a worldwide ban on fishing for sharks. In 2012, Palau received the Future Policy Award from World Future Council, because \"Palau is a global leader in protecting marine ecosystems\".\n\nPalau's economy consists primarily of tourism, subsistence agriculture and fishing. Tourist activity focuses on scuba diving and snorkeling in the islands' rich marine environment, including its barrier reefs' walls and World War II wrecks. The government is the largest employer, relying heavily on U.S. financial assistance. Business and tourist arrivals numbered some 50,000 in fiscal year 2000–2001.\nThe population enjoys a per capita income twice that of Micronesia as a whole. Long-term prospects for the key tourist sector have been greatly bolstered by the expansion of air travel in the Pacific, the rising prosperity of leading East Asian countries and the willingness of foreigners to finance infrastructure development.\n\nAir service has at times been spotty. Palau Micronesia Air, Asian Spirit and Pacific Flier provided service to the Philippines and other destinations at various times during the 2000s, but all suspended service. United Airlines now provides near-daily service to and from Guam, and once-weekly service to Yap. Also, Korean Air provides service three times per week to Incheon.\n\nIn November 2006, Palau Saving Bank officially announced bankruptcy. On 13 December 2006, the Palau Horizon reported that 641 depositors had been affected. Among them, 398 held less than US$5,000, with the remainder ranging from US$5,000 to US$2 million. On 12 December 79 affected people received compensation. Mr. Toribiong said, \"The fund for the payout came from the balance of Palau government's loan from Taiwan.\" From a total of US$1 million, which originally was for assisting Palau's development, US$955,000 was left at the time of bankruptcy. Toribiong requested the Taiwanese government use the balance to repay its loans. Taiwan agreed to the request. The compensation would include those who held less than US$4,000 in an account.\n\nThe income tax has three brackets with progressive rates of 9.3 percent, 15 percent, and 19.6 percent respectively. Corporate tax is four percent, and the sales tax is zero. There are no property taxes.\n\nPalau International Airport provides scheduled direct flights with Guam, Manila, Seoul and Taipei and since December 2010, Tokyo-Narita. Palau Pacific Airways also has charter flights to and from Hong Kong and Macau. In addition, the states of Angaur and Peleliu have regular service to domestic destinations.\n\nFreight, military and cruise ships often call at Malakal Harbor, on Malakal Island outside Koror. The country has no railways, and of the of highways, only are paved. Driving is on the right and the speed limit is . Taxis are available in Koror. They are not metered and fares are negotiable. Transportation between islands mostly relies on private boats and domestic air services. However, there are some state run boats between islands as a cheaper alternative.\n\nThe population of Palau is approximately , of whom 73% are native Palauans of mixed Melanesian, and Austronesian descent. There are many Asian communities within Palau. Filipinos form the largest Asian group and second largest ethnic group in the country. There are significant numbers of Chinese and Koreans. There are also smaller numbers of Palauans of mixed or full Japanese ancestry. Smaller numbers of Bangladeshi and Nepalese migrant workers and their descendants who came to the islands during the late 1900s can also be found. Most Palauans of Asian origin came during the late 1900s with many Filipinos, Chinese, Bangladeshis and Nepalese coming to Palau as unskilled workers and professionals. There are also small numbers of Europeans and Americans.\nThe official languages of Palau are Palauan and English, except for two states (Sonsorol and Hatohobei) where the local language, Sonsorolese and Tobian, respectively, along with Palauan, is official. Japanese is spoken by some older Palauans and is an official language in the State of Angaur. Including second-language speakers, more people speak English than Palauan in Palau. Additionally, a significant portion of the population speak the Filipino language.\n\nAccording to 2015 estimates 45.3% of the population is Roman Catholic (due to its shared colonial heritage with the Philippines), 6.9% Seventh-day Adventist, 34.9% other Protestant (due to American colonial rule), 5.7% Modekngei and 3.0% Muslim (due to its shared Islamic heritage with southern Philippines). In 2009, the small Jewish community sent two cyclists to the 18th Maccabiah Games.\n\nThe German and Japanese occupations of Palau both subsidized missionaries to follow the Spanish. Germans sent Roman Catholic and Protestant, Japanese sent Shinto and Buddhist, and Spaniards sent Roman Catholic missionaries as they controlled Palau. Three quarters of the population are Christians (mainly Roman Catholics and Protestants), while Modekngei (a combination of Christianity, traditional Palauan religion and fortune telling) and the ancient Palauan religion are commonly observed. Japanese rule brought Mahayana Buddhism and Shinto to Palau, which were the majority religions among Japanese settlers. However, following Japan's World War II defeat, the remaining Japanese largely converted to Christianity, while the remainder continued to observe Buddhism, but stopped practicing Shinto rites. There are also approximately 400 Bengali Muslims in Palau, and recently a few Uyghurs detained in Guantanamo Bay were allowed to settle in the island nation.\n\nPalauan society follows a very strict matrilineal system. Matrilineal practices are seen in nearly every aspect of Palauan traditions, especially in funeral, marriage, inheritance and the passing of traditional titles. The system probably had its origins from the Philippine archipelago, which had a similar system until the archipelago was colonized by Spain.\n\nThe cuisine includes local foods such as cassava, taro, yam, potato, fish and pork. Western cuisine is favored among young Palauans and the locals are joined by foreign tourists. The rest of Micronesia is similar with much less tourism, leading to fewer restaurants. Tourists eat mainly at their hotels on such islands. Some local foods include an alcoholic drink made from coconut on the tree; the drink made from the roots of the kava; and the chewing of betel nuts.\n\nThe traditional government system still influences the nation's affairs, leading the federal government to repeatedly attempt to limit its power. Many of these attempts took the form of amendments to the constitution that were supported by the corporate sector to protect what they deemed should be free economic zones. One such example occurred in early 2010, where the Idid clan, the ruling clan of the Southern Federation, under the leadership of Bilung, the Southern Federation's queen, raised a civil suit against the Koror State Public Lands Authority (KSPLA). The Idid clan laid claim over Malakal Island, a major economic zone and Palau's most important port, citing documents from the German Era. The verdict held that the Island belonged to the KSPLA.\n\nThe present day \"traditional\" government of Palau is a continuation of its ancestor, composed of practices that span thousands of years. Traditionally, Palau was hierarchically organized. The lowest level is the village or hamlet, then the chiefdom (now politically referred to as a state) and finally alliances of chiefdoms. In ancient times, numerous federations divided power, but upon the 17th century introduction of firearms by the British, an imbalance of power occurred.\n\nPalau became divided into northern and southern federations. The Northern Federation is headed by the high chief and chiefess of the ruling clan Uudes of Melekeok state, the Reklai and Ebilreklai. They are commonly referred to as the king and queen of the Northern Federation. This northern federation comprises the states of Kayangel, Ngerchelong, Ngardmau, Ngiwal, Ngaraard, Ngatpang, Ngeremlengui, Melekok, Aimeliik, Ngchesar and Airai. The Southern Federation is likewise represented by the high chief and chiefess of the ruling Idid of Koror state.\n\nThe Southern Federation comprises the states of Koror, Peleliu and Angaur. However, fewer and fewer Palauans have knowledge of the concept of federations, and the term is slowly dying out. Federations were established as a way of safeguarding states and hamlets who shared economic, social, and political interests, but with the advent a federal government, safeguards are less meaningful. However, in international relations, the king of Palau is synonymous with the Ibedul of Koror. This is because Koror is the industrial capital of the nation, elevating his position over the Reklai of Melekeok.\n\nIt is a misconception that the king and queen of Palau, or any chief and his female counterpart for that matter, are married. Traditional leaders and their female counterparts have always been related and unmarried (marrying relatives was a traditional taboo). Usually, a chief and his female counterpart are brother and sister, or close cousins, and have their own spouses.\n\nBaseball is a popular sport in Palau after its introduction by the Japanese in the 1920s. The Palau national baseball team won the gold medal at the 1990, 1998 and 2010 Micronesian Games, as well as at the 2007 Pacific Games.\n\nPalau also has a national football team, organized by the Palau Soccer Association, but is not a member of FIFA. The Association also organizes the Palau Soccer League.\n\nPrimary education is required until age of 16. Schools include both public and private institutions as well as some fields of study available at Palau Community College. For further undergraduate, graduate and professional programs, students travel abroad to attend tertiary institutions. Popular choices among Palauan scholars include the San Diego State University, University of the Philippines, Mindanao State University, and the University of the South Pacific.\n\nPalau has its own cuisine, for instance, a dessert called \"tama\".\nPalauan cuisine includes local foods such as cassava, taro, yam, potato, fish and pork. It also shares with Filipino cuisine with neighboring Philippines, notably on Asian-Latin food. Fruit bat soup is a commonly referenced Palauan delicacy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15054340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15054340", "title": "People's Republic of Angola", "text": "People's Republic of Angola\n\nThe People's Republic of Angola () was the self-declared socialist state which governed Angola from its independence in 1975 until 1992, during the Angolan Civil War.\n\nThe regime was established in 1975, after Portuguese Angola, a colony, was granted independence from Portugal through the Alvor Agreement. The situation in Portugal's other former large African colony, the People's Republic of Mozambique, was similar. The newly-founded nation had friendly relations with the Soviet Union, Cuba, and the People's Republic of Mozambique. The country was governed by the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), which was responsible for the transition into a Marxist-Leninist one-party state. The group was backed by both Cuba and the Soviet Union.\n\nAn opposing group, known as the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA), led by Jonas Savimbi, sparked a civil war with the MPLA, with the backing from both apartheid South Africa and the United States.\n\nIn 1991, the MPLA and UNITA signed the peace agreement known as the Bicesse Accords, which allowed for multiparty elections in Angola.\n\nIn 1992, the People's Republic of Angola was constitutionally succeeded by the Republic of Angola and elections were held. However, the peace agreement did not last, as Savimbi rejected the election results and fighting resumed across the country until 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "1733325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1733325", "title": "Platin", "text": "Platin\n\nPlatin is a Slovenian duo consisting of married couple Simon Platin and Diana Platin. They are best known for representing Slovenia at the Eurovision Song Contest 2004 in Istanbul, Turkey where they failed to advance to the final.\n"}
{"id": "1459951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1459951", "title": "Red Sea Air", "text": "Red Sea Air\n\nRed Sea Air was a domestic airline based in Asmara, the capital of Eritrea. It was at one time the national flag carrier. Eritrean Airlines owned 40% of the airline, which operated domestic routes between Asmara, Assab and Massawa. Red Sea Air had a fleet of BAC 1-11s\n\nThe airline operated from 1988 to 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "54240774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54240774", "title": "Ruben Henriques Jr.", "text": "Ruben Henriques Jr.\n\nRuben Henriques Jr. (1771-1846) was a Jewish-Danish banker. He founded the brokerage firm R. Henriques jr. in 1801.\n\nRuben Henriques Jr. was born into the Jewish Henriques family in 1771 in Copenhagen, the son of Bendix Moses Henriques and Elischewa Chawa Henriques. He founded the brokerage firm R. Henriques jr. in 1801. It grew and Hentiques became one of the richest men in Copenhagen. The company was based in a building on Amagertorv.\n\nRuben Henriques Jr. married twice. His first wife was Frederikke Rée and his second wife was Jeruchim-Jorika Henriques. He had a total of 18 children. Two of his sons, Aron and Martin Henriques, took over the company in 1852. Sally Henriques, Samuel Henriques and Nathan Henriques, were all painters. His granddaughter Marie Henriques, the youngest daughter of Martin Henrigues, was also a painter.\n\nHis daughter Dorothea Melchior née Henriques was a close friend of Hans Christian Andersen.\n\n"}
{"id": "27578493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27578493", "title": "Santuario della Beata Vergine della Consolazione", "text": "Santuario della Beata Vergine della Consolazione\n\nSantuario della Beata Vergine della Consolazione is a church in San Marino. It belongs to the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Marino-Montefeltro. It was built in 1964 and consecrated in 1967.\n"}
{"id": "2073995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2073995", "title": "Suarines", "text": "Suarines\n\nThe Suarines or Suardones were one of the Nerthus-worshipping Germanic tribes mentioned by Tacitus in \"Germania\". They have otherwise been lost to history, but Schütte suggests that their name lives on in the name of the town Schwerin.\n\nTacitus wrote of them in a group of tribes defended by rivers and forests, that worshipped Nerthus:\n\n\"(Original Latin)\" \"Reudigni deinde et Aviones et Anglii et Varini et Eudoses et Suardones et Nuithones. Nec quicquam notabile in singulis, nisi quod in commune Nerthum, id est Terram matrem, colunt eamque intervenire rebus hominum, invehi populis arbitrantur. ...\" --Tacitus, \"Germania, .\n\n\"(English translation)\" \"There follow in order the Reudignians, and Aviones, and Angles, and Varinians, and Eudoses, and Suardones and Nuithones; all defended by rivers or forests. Nor in one of these nations does aught remarkable occur, only that they universally join in the worship of \"Herthum (Nerthus)\"; that is to say, the Mother Earth.\"--Tacitus, \"Germania, , translated 1877 by Church and Brodribb.\n\nAccording to some Italian scholars, there is trace of this tribe in a modern Lombard surname (\"Suardi\") as well in the surname Lusuardi. Both surnames belong to the same genetic family - Haplogroup U152 Z36.\n\n"}
{"id": "17137974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17137974", "title": "Tasmanian Gothic", "text": "Tasmanian Gothic\n\nTasmanian Gothic is a genre of Tasmanian literature that merges the traditions of Gothic fiction with the history and natural features of Tasmania, an island state south of the Australian continent. Tasmanian Gothic has inspired works in other artistic media, including theatre and film.\n\nAlthough it deals with the themes of horror, mystery and the uncanny, Tasmanian Gothic literature and art differs from traditional European Gothic Literature, which is rooted in medieval imagery, crumbling Gothic architecture and religious ritual. Instead, the Tasmanian gothic tradition centres on the natural landscape of Tasmania and its colonial architecture and history.\n\nA densely populated Europe of the industrial revolution prompted Urban Gothic literature and novels like Robert Louis Stevenson's \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\" (1886) and Oscar Wilde's \"The Picture of Dorian Gray\" (1890). But in sparsely populated colonial Australia, especially the penal colony of Tasmania, the religious zeal of some prison wardens (akin, in many ways, to the institutionalised religion of the Inquisition; a theme reflected in European gothicism) and the mysterious rituals and traditions of Tasmania's indigenous Aboriginal inhabitants lent itself to an entirely different \"gothic\" tradition.\n\nFrederick Sinnett (founder of the \"Melbourne Punch\"), writing in 1856, considered traditional gothic romanticism inappropriate to Australian literature precisely because the colony lacked the requisite antiquity. For many, however, \"the very landscape of Australia was gothic\".\n\nElements of Tasmanian Gothic art and literature also merge Aboriginal tradition with European gnosticism, rustic spirits and the faerie.\n\nThe dramatic landscape and impenetrable rainforests of Tasmania and the real and imagined brutality of the original penal colony provided a ready source of horror stories. Unsettling events such as the story of Alexander Pearce, the wandering cannibal who roamed through Van Diemen's Land in the 1820s, also influenced the bleak and sinister atmosphere that provided an ideal setting for gothic fiction. The first major work of Australian Gothic fiction, Marcus Clarke's \"For the Term of his Natural Life\", provides a highly sensationalised account of the adventures of a convict unjustly transported to Van Diemen's Land for murder. It was first published as a novel in 1874 while the notorious prison settlement at Port Arthur was still in operation.\n\nWhen the gold rush switched the focus of attention to Victoria, Tasmania began to lose its importance in the Australian economy; \"[one] of Tasmania's principal exports during the first twenty years of this century was her young men\". As time passed, those who remained on the island became the butt of jokes by mainland Australians, who regarded them as inbred, parochial, and out of touch with civilisation.\n\nGiven Tasmania's relatively recent colonisation, artists and authors of the gothic tradition had little to draw on in terms of non-indigenous history. What indigenous history was available to them, however, was mysterious and misunderstood enough be drawn upon to support gothic imagery.\n\nThere are families (for example, the Jones family at Lower Marshes) who still own the land originally granted to their ancestors in the early years of the 19th century and still live in the houses built by their grandfathers. These families passed on stories of hardship, of encounters with Aborigines, convict servants, bushfires and floods as surrounding forests were cleared for farmland. This intersection of past and present informed the island's gothic character.\n\nDuring the 20th century, a new generation of artists and authors living and working in Tasmania began to explore the gothic sensibility, drawing on Tasmania's colonial and more recent history for bizarre people and events, factual or imagined, and creating a uniquely Tasmanian stock of gothic characters and situations: deranged convict escapees (\"bolters\"), cannibals, corrupt and drunken officials, tough women, troubled and homesick immigrants, malevolent forest spirits, deformed halfwits and feral backwoodsmen, set among spectacular mountains, remote forest camps and Tasmania's crumbling penal colony infrastructure.\n\nThe alleged discovery of a small degenerate community on the West Coast in the 1930s became the subject of \"The Golden Age\", an important Tasmanian Gothic work by playwright Louis Nowra, first performed by the Playbox Theatre Company at the Victorian Arts Centre's Studio Theatre in 1985.\n\nWorks by novelists Richard Flanagan, Christopher Koch and Chloe Hooper are regarded as a continuation of the Tasmanian Gothic tradition. Flanagan's 2001 novel \"Gould's Book of Fish\", winner of the Commonwealth Writers' Prize, is a fictionalised account of Van Diemonian painter William Buelow Gould, focusing on his years spent imprisoned at the notorious convict settlement of Macquarie Harbour. According to Carmel Bird, Helen Hodgman's novels \"distil the very essence of Tasmanian gothic.\" Danielle Wood's Tasmanian Gothic novel \"The Alphabet of Light and Dark\" won the 2002 The Australian/Vogel Literary Award. Rohan Wilson won the award for his 2011 novel \"The Roving Party\", a historical \"re-imagining\" into the misdeeds of John Batman and the band of convicts and Aboriginal trackers he led through Van Diemen's Land in 1829. The debut novels of Cate Kennedy (\"The World Beneath\", 2009) and Favel Parrett (\"Past The Shallows\", 2011) have also been aligned with Tasmanian Gothic.\n\nRoger Scholes' 1988 film \"The Tale of Ruby Rose\" is about a young woman's fear of darkness in the Tasmanian highlands. Tasmanian sculptor Gay Hawkes created a series of wooden sculptures based on the film, citing Tasmanian Gothic's \"synthesis of the present and past\" as an inspiration. National Gallery of Victoria director Patrick McCaughey called her work the \"visual embodiment of the fatal shore\". Julia Leigh's 1999 novel \"The Hunter\" is about a lone man's search for the last Tasmanian tiger. Described as being in the \"best tradition of Tasmanian gothic\", the novel won the 2000 Kathleen Mitchell Award, and was adapted into a 2011 film of the same name. The story of Alexander Pearce was made into two feature films: \"The Last Confession of Alexander Pearce\" (2008) and \"Van Diemen's Land\" (2009). The 2008 horror film \"Dying Breed\" is about Pearce's fictional descendants in the backwoods of Tasmania.\n\nIn 2011, Tasmanian art collector David Walsh opened the Museum of Old and New Art (MONA) in Hobart, the Southern Hemisphere's largest privately-owned museum. The popularity of MONA — with its theme of \"sex and death\" — and the wider Tasmanian Gothic movement, has led Tasmanian tourism operators to promote the state's \"dark, eerie, cold and bracing history and climate\".\n\nA 2016 television series \"The Kettering Incident\", which won an award at the festival (French language Wikipedia) in Paris, is also regarded as an example of Tasmanian Gothic.\n\nFurther examples include \"The Outlaw Michael Howe\" and \"The Nightingale\".\n\n"}
{"id": "34202823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34202823", "title": "Telstar 14R", "text": "Telstar 14R\n\nTelstar 14R, also known as Estrela do Sul 2 (Southern Star 2) is a commercial communications satellite in the Telstar series built by Space Systems/Loral for Telesat to provide Ku-band communications to South America and the Southern United States. It is a replacement for Telstar 14, whose north solar array failed to open after launch, limiting its mission effectiveness. Telstar 14R experienced the same problem, with its north solar array failing to open too, but is now in service despite that failure.\n\nIt was launched 20 May 2011 from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan aboard an International Launch Services Proton-M rocket. Telstar 14R is built around the Loral 1300 satellite bus, and has a launch mass of around 5000 kg. It is positioned in geosynchronous orbit at 63 degrees west.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4528370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4528370", "title": "The Evpatoria Report", "text": "The Evpatoria Report\n\nThe Evpatoria Report is a Swiss post-rock band. The band was formed in January 2002, and it consists of two guitarists, a bassist, a drummer, and a violinist/keyboardist. The Evpatoria Report have played concerts in Paris and toured throughout Switzerland, playing with bands such as Red Sparowes, The Appleseed Cast, and Mono. The band was on a hiatus from 2008 until they announced their return to the studio in April 2015.\n\nThe band was formed in January 2002 and is named for the Crimean city Yevpatoria (romanized from Russian as Evpatoria), in which the radio telescope RT-70 P-2500 is located. It sends messages into space, including A Message From Earth and Cosmic Call, that try to describe human life or \"the Evpatoria message\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9893321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9893321", "title": "The River (Breed 77 song)", "text": "The River (Breed 77 song)\n\n\"The River\" is a song and single by Gibraltarian Flamenco Metal band Breed 77 and it was their first ever single to reach the top 40 — hitting the charts at number 39. It was released as a 2 part CD and DVD set, and on 7\" vinyl.\n\nTrack 1 written by Paul Isola & Danny Felice. Track 2 (CD1) written by Danny Felice, Paul Isola, Pete Chichone. Track 2 (CD2) written by Pedro Caparros, Paul Isola, Danny Felice.\n\nThe line-up for this single consisted of Paul Isola, Danny Felice, Stuart Cavilla, Pete Chichone and Pedro Caparros.\n\n\nThe music video for this single was fully directed by Paul Isola. It was filmed at three different locations along the southern coast of the Iberian Peninsula. These included Río Tinto in Huelva, Tarifa in Cádiz (both in Spain) and finally Europa Point in Gibraltar. Río Tinto is a river which carries blood red waters due to its high mineral content, which provided the video with striking visuals. The famous sand dunes of Tarifa provides the video with a desert-like background, giving it a sense of scorching heat which is felt throughout the video. The Ibrahim-al-Ibrahim Mosque at Europa Point in Gibraltar can be clearly seen in the background as the band is seen playing their music and displaying a flag of Gibraltar as they do on stage at their concerts. This location holds a special meaning to the band as it is a place where they would hang out for hours during their teenage years.\n</tr></table>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33895239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33895239", "title": "Theater44", "text": "Theater44\n\nTheater44 was a theatre in Munich, Bavaria, Germany. It was closed in May 2009.\n"}
{"id": "36382794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36382794", "title": "USA-54", "text": "USA-54\n\nUSA-54, also known as GPS II-7 and GPS SVN-20, was an American navigation satellite which formed part of the Global Positioning System. It was the seventh of nine Block II GPS satellites to be launched, which were the first operational GPS satellites to fly.\n\nUSA-54 was launched at 02:45:01 UTC on 26 March 1990, atop a Delta II carrier rocket, flight number D193, flying in the 6925 configuration. The launch took place from Launch Complex 17A at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and placed USA-54 into a transfer orbit. The satellite raised itself into medium Earth orbit using a Star-37XFP apogee motor.\n\nOn 30 April 1990, USA-54 was in an orbit with a perigee of , an apogee of , a period of 717.84 minutes, and 55 degrees of inclination to the equator. The satellite had a mass of , and generated 710 watts of power. It had a design life of 7.5 years, however following problems with the satellite switching between timing standards, the satellite was declared unusable on 21 May 1996, and was decommissioned on 13 December.\n"}
