{"id": "22897406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22897406", "title": "Abdul Bari (Taliban commander, Uruzgan)", "text": "Abdul Bari (Taliban commander, Uruzgan)\n\nMullah Abdul Bari (died ) was alleged to be a Taliban commander, and expert bomb-maker.\n\nAccording to Australian General Mark Evans:\n\nAnother Taliban commander named Mullah Abdul Bari was reported killed in Helmand Province on February 21, 2008.\n"}
{"id": "23825873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23825873", "title": "Abusua", "text": "Abusua\n\nAbusua is the name in Akan culture for a group of people that share common maternal ancestry governed by seven major ancient female abosom (deities). The Abusua line is considered to be passed through the mother's blood (\"mogya\").\nThere are several Abusua that transcend the different ethnic subgroups outside of the ancient seven. People of the same Abusua share a common ancestor somewhere within their bloodline, which may go back as far as thousands of years. It is a taboo to marry someone from the same Abusua. \nThe different Abusua are the Agona (parrot), the Aduana (dog), the Asenie (bat), the Asakyiri (vulture), the Asona (crow), the Bretuo (leopard), the Ekuona (bull) and the Oyoko (hawk).\n\nPeople of the Agona are predominant in Denkyira and therefore in Asante, Nkawie. The symbol of the Agona is the parrot. When greeted by a person from the Agona or Anona, the reply should be \"Yaa ago nana\". Some towns of the Agona are Tafo, Bodwesango, Fumesua, Edwumako Techiman, Dunkwa, Asienimpon, Trede Ahwaa, Akyem Apedwa,\n\nAduana believe that at the time of creation, their ancestors descended from the skies on a golden chain. Others believe that they originally came from Asumanya and they were led by a duiker with a flame in his mouth and gold in his cheeks. They proceeded to Dormaa where they believe the flame is still kept alight. Still others believe that from Asumanya a section of the Aduana headed for Akwamu. Some of the principal towns of the Aduana are Dormaa, Akwamu and Twifo Heman. In Asante a principal towns for the Aduana are Kumawu, Asumanya, Kwaman, Boaman, Agogo, Apromaase, Akyem Apapam, Tikurom, Kaase, Apagya, Bompata, Kwaso, Akyease, Takyiman, Nsoatre, Drobo,Manso Agroyesum, Manso-Mmem, Manso-Abodom, and Nyinahen. The symbol of the Aduana is the dog.\n\nThe symbol of the Asenie is the bat and its main towns are Kumasi Amakom and Dompoase. When greeted by a person from the Asenie, the reply should be \"Yaa adu nana\". Other towns of the Asenie are Antoa, Agona, Nkoranza, Wenchi, Atwoma, Kofiase, Abira, Baman, Denyase and Boanim. In Adansi Dompoase, members of the Asenie family are the crowned royals of the land and their leaders possesses special leadership skills endowed by their great ancestors.\n\nAsakyiri claim that they were the first to be created by God. They are to be found in the Adanse area and their main towns are Akorokyere (Akrokere), Asakyiri Amansie, Ayaase and Asokore. When greeted by a person from the Asakyiri, the reply should be \"Yaa Ofori nana\". Other towns of the Asakyiri are Abofuo, Aduanede, Abrenkese, and Apeadu.\n\nThe symbol of the Asona is the crow or wild boar. It is said that more people generally, belong to the Asona than to any other abusua. The principal towns are Adansi Akrofuom, Kyebi, Edweso and Offinso. When greeted by a member of the Asona, the reply should be \"Yaa Ofori nana\". Other towns of the Asona are Akyem Begoro, Akyem Asiakwa, New Juaben, Akyem Wenchi, Kukurantumi, Akyem Tafo, Akuapem-Akropong, Akuapem Amanokrom, Akyem Kwarbeng, Ejura, Feyiase, Manso-Nkwanta, Bonwire, Atwima-Agogo, Abrakaso, Trabuom, Beposo, Toase, and Odumase. The head of all Asona towns is Adansi Akrofuom.\n\nBretuo are found mainly inAdansi Ayaase,Mampong, Adankranya,Amoafo, Asiwa, and Afigyaase/Effiduase. Its symbol is the leopard. It is worth noting that the commander of the Asante army against Denkyira was the Mamponhene and in the past, generally, matters relating to war in Asante was the domain of the Mamponhene. When greeted by a person from the Bretuo, the reply should be \"Yaa etwie nana\". Towns of the Bretuo are Jamase, Apaa, Domeabra, Agogo-Hwidiem, Adankranya, Asiwa (capital of Bosome Freho District) and Abuotem.\n\nEkuona are not found in great numbers in Asante. They are mainly found among the Fante but in Asante, their main town is Adanse Fomena. The symbol of the Ekuona is the buffalo. When greeted, the reply should be \"Yaa Doku nana\". Other towns of the family are Banko, Mprim, Kona, Asokore-Mampon, Berekum, Kokofu-Abuoso, Adumasa, Heman, Abenkyem, Cape Coast, Jukwaa,and Duayaw-Nkwanta.\n\nThe falcon/hawk is the symbol of the Oyoko. It is also the family from which the Asantehene comes. Its main towns are Kokofu, Kumasi, Dwaben and Nsuta. When greeted, the reply should be \"Yaa Obiri nana\". Other towns are Bekwae, Mamponten, Bogyae, Dadieso, Obogu, Asaaman Adubiase, Pampaso, Kontanase, Kenyase, and Ntonso.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18170010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18170010", "title": "Age requirements in gymnastics", "text": "Age requirements in gymnastics\n\nThe age requirements in gymnastics are established by the Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG) and regulate the age at which athletes are allowed to participate in senior-level competitions.\n\nIn the latter half of the 20th century, a series of controversies arose with regard to gymnast ages, some of them leading to sanctions by FIG, and paving the way for the age requirements to be raised from 14 to 15 in 1981, and then to 16 in 1997.\n\nPrior to 1981, the minimum required age to compete in senior events sanctioned by the FIG (including the Olympic Games) was 14. The earliest champions in women's gymnastics tended to be in their 20s; most had studied ballet for years before entering the sport. Hungarian gymnast Ágnes Keleti won individual gold medals at the age of 35 at the 1956 Olympics. Larisa Latynina, the first great Soviet gymnast, won her first Olympic all-around medal at the age of 21, her second at 25 and her third at 29; she became the 1958 World Champion while pregnant with her daughter. Czech gymnast Věra Čáslavská, who followed Latynina to become a two-time Olympic all-around champion, was 22 before she started winning gold medals at the highest level of the sport, and won her final Olympic all-around title at the age of 26.\n\nIn the 1970s, the average age of Olympic gymnastics competitors began to gradually decrease. While it was not unheard of for teenagers to compete in the 1960s — Ludmilla Tourischeva was sixteen at her first Olympics in 1968 — they slowly became the norm, as difficulty in gymnastics increased.\n\nBy the late 1970s, Federations occasionally requested permission to allow slightly underage athletes to compete as seniors. One such example is that of Canadian gymnast Karen Kelsall, who legally competed in the 1976 Olympics at the age of 13. At the time, gymnasts had to turn 14 by the start of the Games to be eligible. Kelsall, with her December 1962 birthday, was five months shy of the requirement but was turning 14 within the Olympic year, and was granted a special exemption by the FIG to compete. Such exemptions were not automatic, however: American gymnast Tracee Talavera, who was named to the United States team for the 1979 World Championships, was deemed ineligible to compete due to her age of 12½ years.\n\nIn response to the changing demands of the sport, at the 58th Congress of the FIG, held in July 1980 just before the Moscow Olympics, the minimum age was raised from 14 to 15. Under this rule, which went into effect in 1981, gymnasts were required to turn at least 15 years of age in the calendar year to compete in senior-level events. This age requirement remained in place until 1997, when it was raised one more year, from 15 to 16.\n\nAge restrictions were supposedly designed not so much to level the playing field in terms of skill and physical advantages, as to protect child athletes from injury. However, critics dispute the science behind the policy and argue that the answer is to prohibit junior gymnasts from competing in senior competitions.\n\nOn the one hand, proponents such as Jeanne Dopbrak, a sports medicine physician at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, contend that \"[a child athlete's] immature skeleton just isn't ready to handle the day-to-day stresses that will occur.\" and that the stresses imposed on only partly developed muscular/skeletal system by gymnastics are almost certain to cause damage that would persist into adulthood. Proponents also point to a 16-year American study of gymnastics injuries which concluded that gymnastics is the most dangerous sport for girls, with injury rates comparable to those found in boys who play soccer, basketball and hockey. An athlete whose bones are still growing is more likely than an adult to suffer skeletal injury, because the bones are more porous and the joints not yet fully formed. Lesions, which are precursors to stress fractures, occur in 11 percent of young female gymnasts, compared to 2.3 percent of girls and women in general. The International Gymnastics Federation says that intense physical activity, such as that engaged in by gymnasts training at the elite level, affects the functioning of growth hormones, possibly causing delayed bone growth and the onset of puberty – although the body is able to recover and catch up later if given rest periods.\n\nIn addition, proponents contend that practicing elite sports is mentally and emotionally demanding. Young gymnasts at these levels are often pressured to perform by coaches and parents, and ex-gymnasts have spoken out about behavioural and psychological problems common to the sport.\n\nCurrently, per the 1997 regulation, gymnasts must be at least 16 years of age, or turning 16 within the calendar year, to compete in senior-level events. For the current Olympic cycle, in order to compete in the 2016 Olympics, a gymnast must have a birth date before January 1, 2001. There is no maximum age restriction, and some gymnasts compete well into their 20s. The oldest female gymnast currently competing in senior international events is Uzbekistan's Oksana Chusovitina, (b. 1975) who was old at the 2016 Summer Olympics. She was old at her first Olympics, the 1992 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe term senior, in gymnastics, refers to any world-class gymnast who is age-eligible under F.I.G. rules. The term junior is used to describe any gymnast who competes at a world-class level, but does not meet the F.I.G.'s age minimum. Juniors are judged under the same Code of Points as the seniors, and often exhibit the same level of difficulty in their routines.\n\nThe one exception to the F.I.G.'s age restrictions until recently applied to the year before the Olympics, when gymnasts who were one year below the required age, but would be the required age in the Olympic year, were allowed to compete as seniors at the World Championships and other FIG meets. For instance, gymnasts born in 1977 were allowed to compete at senior events in 1991, when they were 14 or turning 14 within the calendar year. Within the last Olympic cycle, gymnasts born in 1992 were permitted to compete as seniors in 2007. This was permitted to allow nations to qualify to the Olympics with their best teams, and to give emerging gymnasts some experience in major competition before the Olympics. However, the FIG eliminated this exception as of the 2012 Olympic cycle.\n\nIn addition, the age requirement technically only applies to meets which are sanctioned and regulated directly by the FIG: the Olympics, the World Championships and the World Cup circuit. Many other meets, such as the European Championships, have separate divisions for juniors. Additionally, some competitions, such as the Pan Am Games, the Pacific Rim Championships and the All-Africa Games, have different rules which permit seniors and juniors to compete together. There are also numerous international competitions specifically limited to junior gymnasts, such as the Japan Junior International, Moscow World Stars, the Junior Pan American Championships, and the Youth Olympic Games.\n\nAccording to official statements from the FIG, \"the accepted proof of a gymnast’s eligibility for competition is a valid passport issued by the country of residence.\" This verification process has been criticized by some in the gymnastics community, with the argument that countries can manufacture and submit falsified documents for underage athletes. In several cases, gymnasts involved in age falsification have verified that they did in fact compete under forged passports provided to them by their federations.\n\nSince 2009, gymnasts competing in FIG-sanctioned events at both the senior and junior level have been required to have licenses issued by the Federation. These licenses reportedly verify the competitors' ages based on their passports. However, the licensing does not include any independent verification of submitted passport information.\n\nThe age limit is arguably one of the most contentious rules in gymnastics, and is frequently debated by coaches, gymnasts and members of the media. While some members of the sport, such as former USA Gymnastics president Bob Colarossi, have expressed support for the age limit of 16, others, such as coach Béla Károlyi, have heavily criticized it.\n\nSupporters of the age restrictions have pointed out that it has encouraged older gymnasts to remain in the sport. The average age of an international gymnast was 18.10 years in 2005. In contrast, in 1994, before the new age requirements, it was 16.49, and in 1989, gymnasts who had reached the age of 17 were already often considered to be of retirement age.\n\nOpponents of the rule have countered that by barring younger gymnasts from top level meets, they are denying them valuable competitive experience. They have also argued that junior gymnasts perform and are scored under the same \"Code of Points\" as the seniors, perform the same skills, and are thus not avoiding the physical impact of training and performing high-level skills. It is also argued that the current \"Code of Points\", with its increased requirements for difficult skills, is more suited to younger and lighter athletes, and puts older athletes at greater risk of injury.\n\nAge falsification is the practice of advancing gymnasts' ages to make them age-eligible for senior-level competition. Reports of age falsification among top-level international gymnasts first began to surface in the 1980s, after the age limit was raised from 14 to 15. This has frequently taken the form of inconsistently reported birthdates; at other times, speculation has been raised due to the young appearance of the gymnasts. Age falsification has been revealed and confirmed in several ways. In some cases, gymnasts themselves have come forward and publicly confirmed and verified the falsification. In other cases, documents revealing inconsistencies, such as original birth certificates, have been researched and uncovered by the press. Inconsistencies with reported birth dates and ages at international and national competitions have also led to the discovery of age falsification.\n\nGymnasts who have had their ages falsified, and have spoken about their experiences, have indicated that they were not given a choice in the matter. In a 2002 interview, Romanian gymnast Daniela Silivaş, whose age was advanced two years in the 1980s, noted: \"One of the officials of the Federation told me 'Look at the passport, from today you're not 13 years old anymore but 15.' Nobody asked me if I agreed to this, I was just a child. They needed gold medals and everybody who was involved in gymnastics knew about these practices.\"\n\nWhile age falsification has been denied among many gymnastics officials, in recent years some have publicly admitted that the practice has occurred. In reference to the falsifications of the early 1990s and 1980s, the head of the Romanian Gymnastics Federation, Nicolae Vieru, was quoted in 2002: \"Changing the ages was a worldwide practice...we copied this from others.\" The FIG has publicly stated that they view age falsification as an unacceptable practice. However, there have only been three cases, those of Kim Gwang Suk in 1993 and Dong Fangxiao and Hong Su Jong in 2010, where the FIG has elected to take any action against a gymnastics federation for age falsification.\n\nAccording to many scientific and medical studies, as well as reports from ex-gymnasts, younger gymnasts may have psychological or physical advantages in elite gymnastics competition.\n\nPsychologically, younger gymnasts may be more fearless, and have less visceral appreciation for the potential for injury. They are therefore more likely to perform more dangerous, and more highly scored, routines with confidence and steadiness. “Psychologically, I think they worry less,” former Olympic medallist Nellie Kim told \"The New York Times\". Daniela Silivaş, in her interview, commented, \"You should know that I competed better at the age of 13 than at 17. I felt much better, physical \"(sic)\" and mentally.\"\n\nPhysically, younger gymnasts, particularly those who have not yet gone through puberty, tend to be lighter, smaller, more pliable and flexible, which aids them in performing more complex skills and gives them a better strength-to-weight ratio. When a gymnast hits puberty, growth spurts and weight gain may affect her centre of gravity, causing mental and physical stress as she must adjust, and in some cases relearn, her moves to compensate. Smaller athletes have generally excelled in the more challenging acrobatic elements required by the evolving Code of Points after the 1960s. In addition, older gymnasts may be more prone to certain types of injuries caused by overuse of bones and muscles; younger gymnasts are less likely to have such problems, or more likely to be able to work through pain while injured.\n\nKim Gwang Suk (North Korea): Kim, the 1991 World Champion on the uneven bars, was active on the international circuit between 1987 and 1993. During this time, several observers claimed she was too young for senior competition. The North Korean Gymnastics Federation submitted inconsistent dates of birth for Kim at various competitions, claiming that she was 15 for three consecutive years. As punishment, the F.I.G. barred the North Korean women's team from the World Championships in 1993. She competed in the 1989 World Championships at the estimated age of 11 or 12. However, she may have been younger than that. At the 1992 Olympics, she claimed she was 17. However, her front teeth were missing, leading Béla Károlyi to speculate that she may have been as young as 10 at the time.\n\nLavinia Agache (Romania): Agache competed at the 1981 World Championships at the age of 13, under a passport which gave her year of birth as 1967. She was in fact born in 1968. The falsification was suspected as early as 1981; Agache confirmed her 1968 birthdate to \"International Gymnast\" magazine in 2000.\n\nOlga Bicherova (Soviet Union): Bicherova, the 1981 World Champion in the all-around event, was introduced at an early 1981 meet as a 12-year-old, but was claimed to have been born in 1966 at the 1981 World Championships later in the same year.\n\nGina Gogean (Romania): Gogean competed in the 1992 Olympics with a passport with a 1977 birth year. However, in 2002 her original birth certificate was uncovered by the media, revealing she had been born in 1978.\n\nAlexandra Marinescu (Romania): Marinescu, a World and team Olympic medalist in the mid-1990s, had her birth year advanced from 1982 to 1981 in order to be eligible for the 1995 World Championships and 1996 Olympic Games.\n\nOlga Mostepanova (Soviet Union): Mostepanova, who competed at the 1983 and 1985 World Championships and was the all-around gold medalist at the 1984 Friendship Games, has been reported as having 1968 and 1969 birth dates, but has stated that she was actually born in 1970.\n\nDaniela Silivaş (Romania): Silivaş, a multiple World and Olympic gold medalist, competed as a junior until 1985, when her birth year was changed from 1972 to 1970. She went on to compete at the 1985 World Championships at the age of 13. Silivaş revealed the falsification to the media in 2002.\n\nDong Fangxiao (People's Republic of China): Dong was a member of the bronze-medal winning Chinese team at the 2000 Summer Olympics. Her birthdate was listed as January 20, 1983, in the FIG database. However, it was discovered that her accreditation as a technical official at the 2008 Summer Olympics, where she worked as a vault secretary, listed her birthdate as January 23, 1986. Additionally, her blog stated she was born during the Year of the Ox, which would place her birthdate between February 1985 and February 1986. An FIG investigation determined in 2010 that Dong was 14 during the 2000 Olympics and the Chinese team should be stripped of its bronze medal. Dong's 1999 World Championships and World Cup results were vacated. In April 2010, the International Olympic Committee upheld the F.I.G.'s recommendation and nullified both the Chinese team's bronze medal and Dong's individual Olympic placement.\n\nHong Su Jong (North Korea), the 2007 World Championships silver medalist on vault, was investigated for age discrepancies in 2010. Hong competed at the 2004 Olympics with a March 9, 1985, birth date, but participated in subsequent Asian Games and World Championships meets with a 1986 year of birth. Her 2010 F.I.G. license and 2010 Worlds registration indicated that she was born in 1989. The F.I.G. responded in October 2010 by provisionally banning North Korea from competition for one month, which effectively barred them from the 2010 World Championships. In November 2010, the F.I.G. extended the ban until October 5, 2012, fined the North Korean Federation $20,800, and banned Hong from competing even in national competition within North Korea.\n\nDuring the 2008 Summer Olympics the age of four Chinese gymnasts — He Kexin, Jiang Yuyuan, Deng Linlin, and Yang Yilin — was brought into question, with many foreign media outlets speculating that they were underage during the Olympics. Multiple age investigations were conducted at the urging of media, as well as United States Olympic Committee executive Jim Scherr and International Olympic Committee president Jacques Rogge, and the Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique (FIG) found that the gymnasts had met the age requirements and were eligible to compete. The Chinese sports administration also acknowledged that mistakes in its paperwork have contributed to the misunderstanding.\n"}
{"id": "24329258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24329258", "title": "Al-Awamiyah", "text": "Al-Awamiyah\n\nAl-Awamiyah, also spelled Awamia, ( \"\") is a town situated in the Al-Qatif region in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. , it has a population of about 25,500 people. Al-Awamiyah is bordered by the Al-Ramis farms to the east and some other farms to the west and the south. To the north side, there is a dividing line between Al-Awamiyah and the neighboring Safwa city, so the town cannot expand any more and provide housing land for its growing population. Due to this limited land, the people move out of the town and settle in nearby neighborhoods, notably Al-Nasera which is home to almost 2500 people living in 250 homes. \n\nIt is an ancient town, overlooking the Persian Gulf, in the north end of the oasis of Al-Qatif. It is located about 2.1 km south of Safwa city and about 1 km north of Al-Quddaih.\n\nIt has a mangrove area.\n\nOne of its neighborhoods is Al-Zara, which used to be a historic city and the capital of the historic province of Bahrain since the early Islamic times.\n\nDespite a ban on public demonstrations in Saudi Arabia, on 29 July 2006, a pro-Hezbollah march took place in Al-Awamiyah and al-Qateef, protesting against Israel’s military campaign against Lebanon. Further protests took place on 3 August of the same year and on 28 April 2009.\n\nIn March 2009, at least four people, including a minor, were arrested after taking part in rallies which were organized to protest the warrant for the arrest of Sheikh Nimr Baqir al-Nimr, a senior Shiite cleric and Imam of a mosque in Al-Awamiyah. He had criticised attacks against Shias traveling to the tomb of Muhammad.\nOn November 21, 2011, security forces killed 4 people in Al-Awamiya.\n\nOn 5 April 2015, a security officer was killed during a raid on suspected government opponents. According to the government, at least four citizens were detained and weapons seized. However, residents claimed that 30 arrests were made. They also accuse authorities of cracking down on pro-democracy anti-government protests and using it as an excuse for the raids.\n\nIn January 2016, Saudi Arabia executed the prominent Shiite cleric Sheikh Nimr Baqir al-Nimr, who had called for pro-democracy demonstrations, along with forty-seven people accused of terrorism.\n\nIn May 2017, Al-Awamiyah was put under full siege by the Saudi military after violence broke out due to evictions. The government blamed the violence on terrorist activities. Reports indicate that between 10 and 25 people were killed from gunfire and shelling, including two infants. \n\nResidents also reported soldiers shooting at homes, cars and everyone in streets. During the crackdown the Saudi government demolished several historical sites and many other buildings and houses in Qatif.\n\n20,000 residents were forced to flee from their homes to survive. and the town was devastated by demolitions and fighting.\n\nAl-Awamiyah's economy is based mainly on petroleum production and agriculture.\n\nThe town is particularly famous and known for its tomatoes as it is called Ramsi tomatoes after the name of the land it is grown in, Al Ramis.\n\nOil pipelines surround the village from the west and north sides along with several oil wells of which some are old and others newly drilled as part of Qatif Project. Over 2 million barrels of oil pass through the village each day on the way to the Ras Tanura terminal and refinery.\n\nThe town is served by the nearby King Fahd International Airport which is 25 minutes away with a distance of 30 km from the terminal to the town.\n\nThe town can be accessed via either two exits from Dhahran-Jubail Highway; the Airport exit or Qatif's main entrance near Awjam.\n\nNearly all of the residents of Al-Awamiyah practice Twelver Shia Islam. Despite persecution by the Saudi regime, residents try to celebrate and commemorate Shia days of remembrance.\n\nAyatollah Nimr al-Nimr was executed on January 2, 2016 by the Saudi regime for his calls for democratic change. His name is praised on Al-Awamiyah's walls and his portraits hang from billboards and balconies alongside those of Husayn ibn Ali.\n\nAli Mohammed Baqir al-Nimr, the nephew of Sheikh Nimr, was run over and arrested by Saudi authorities in 2012, and , faces death for the same accusations.\n\n"}
{"id": "38077846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38077846", "title": "Allu Sirish", "text": "Allu Sirish\n\nAllu Sirish (Telugu:అల్లు శిరీష్) (born 30 May 1987) is an Indian film actor who works predominantly in the Telugu film industry\nalong with a few Tamil and Malayalam films. Despite acting, Sirish is also the CEO and founder of South-scope magazine. He had also been a co-producer for Ghajini, the Hindi version.\n\nSirish's debut film was directed by Radha, a Mohasocial l drama \"Gouravam\", which was a bi-lingual film shot in Telugu and Tamil, produced by Prakash Raj. In 1 May 2014, his second film \"Kotha Janta\" was released, starring Regina Cassandra. His third film is \"Srirasthu Subhamastu\", which is a family entertainer. This film became the biggest hit in his career. He acted with Mohanlal in a film called \"1971 Beyond Borders\", which was his Malayalam debut. He played a role of soldier for the first time. In 2017, December 28 his film \"Okkakshanam\" was released, which was directed by VI Anand and the casting includes Surabhi, Seerat Kapoor and Srinivas Avasarala. The film is a scientific thriller based on the concept of parallel lives.\n\nAllu Sirish was born in Chennai on 30 May 1987. His father Allu Aravind is a film producer. He is the younger brother of actor Allu Arjun and nephew of Chiranjeevi. He is the grandson of \"Allu Rama Lingaiah\", who was an Indian cinema actor who appeared in almost 1000 films.\n\nSirish co-produced the film \"Ghajini\" along with his father Allu Aravind. Allu Sirish is also a television personality, as he hosts awards shows, such as the \"1st\" IIFA Utsavam Awards alongside Navdeep and Regina Cassandra, 64th \"Filmfare Awards South\" alongside Vijay Deverakonda and SIIMA awards alongside Lakshmi Manchu.\n\n"}
{"id": "43186415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43186415", "title": "American Radio Relay League, Inc. v. FCC", "text": "American Radio Relay League, Inc. v. FCC\n\nAmerican Radio Relay League, Inc. v. FCC can refer to:\n"}
{"id": "11830460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11830460", "title": "Audience memory curve", "text": "Audience memory curve\n\nThe audience memory curve summarizes research on what an ordinary presentation audience is most likely to remember from the presenter's messages. The audience memory curve is important when planning effective corporate communication.\n\nThe audience memory curve is a principle that relates to the amount of information a person is able to retain and remember from a presentation depending on the time that the information is presented. “Researchers have found that people have a ‘memory curve’ which enables them to recall what is presented or spoken in the beginning or end of the presentation and not much of what is presented or spoken in the middle of the presentation” . Although an audience may attempt to listen to all of the data, examples, facts, and opinions in a presentation, the reality of the situation is that they can only take in and recall a small portion of what is said. The audience’s attention tends to be high when a presentation begins, but as it continues, the audience’s attentions may wander. Some people may tune in and out, others may daydream or become distracted. However, when a presenter nears the end of their speech with a phrase such as ‘to wrap up’ or ‘in conclusion’, most audience members tune back in and listen intently attempting to find out what they had missed along the way . The audience memory curve principle is especially important when it comes to communication techniques. Understanding how this principle works is necessary to delivering a memorable and successful presentation. \n\nWhen discussing the principle of the audience memory curve, it is worth noting the more well-known Ebbinghaus forgetting curve. This curve describes the decreased ability of the brain to retain memory over time. Ebbinghaus found the forgetting curve to be exponential in nature . “Memory retention is 100% at the time of learning any particular piece of information. However, it drops rapidly to 40% within the first few days “. Understanding Ebbinghaus’ forgetting curve is important when discussing the audience memory curve because Ebbinghaus also described the various factors that can affect the rate of forgetting, which is useful when discussing ways to combat decreasing interest of an audience during a presentation. These factors include the meaningfulness of the information, the way it is represented, and physiological factors, such as stress and sleep. \n\nIn communication strategy, it is important to use direct approach in the beginning of a presentation. This is where the audience remembers most of the ideas presented. Use and deliver ideas in descending importance order. Leave the second most important message to last.\nIf indirect approach is used then the ending of the presentation should conclude the main idea as a solution.\n\nThere are a variety of techniques to battle the waning attention of an audience. According to Dr. Carmen Simon, the first step in giving an effective presentation is gaining the audience’s attention. True attention requires overcoming habituation. According to Simon, habituation is “when you get used to stimulus and start paying less and less attention to it” . Overcoming habituation relies on stimulus internal variation, which Simon refers to as “a fancy way of saying ‘the degree of change over time’” McGee). We tend to pay more attention to things that change, and ignore things that stay the same. Appling this information to a presentation means using more ‘cuts’ in the presentation. In other words, switching up the type of content and presentation style. Another way of overcoming habituation and gathering attention is the neurotransmitter dopamine. Dopamine deals with pleasure and reward. “’When dopamine is present, your audience may be more likely to exert some effort in your favor,’ Simon said, ‘even if it is just paying attention to you’” . The key to releasing dopamine is the anticipation of pleasure. Anticipation can be incorporated into a presentation in several ways including promising a reward to the audience or stating that you will need audience participation at some point. \n\nThe audience memory curve is an important principle to understand in order to better communicate and present information to an audience. Understanding how people retain and connect with information will help a presented to take control of what an audience takes away from their presentation and is a huge skill to have as a presenter. \n\n"}
{"id": "46498224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46498224", "title": "Bedaria tribe", "text": "Bedaria tribe\n\nBedaria () is a branch of Ja'alin tribes or Ja'alia are an Arabic speaking, Semitic tribe. The Bedaria constitute a large portion of Sudanese Arabs, and traditionally only speak Arabic. Sudanese Arabs are the Arabic-speaking majority population of Sudan. They are predominantly Muslim and most of them speak the Sudanese Arabic dialect.\n\nThe Bedaria trace their lineage to Abbas, uncle of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. They were at one time subject to the Funj kings, but their position was in a measure independent. At the Egyptian invasion in 1820 they were the most powerful of Arab tribes in the Nile valley. They submitted at first, but in 1822 rebelled and massacred the Egyptian garrison at Shendi with the Mek Nimir, a Jaali leader burning Ismail, Muhammad Ali Pasha's son and his cortege at a banquet. The revolt was mercilessly suppressed, and the Ja'alin were thence forward looked on with suspicion. They were almost the first of the northern tribes to join the mahdi in 1884, and it was their position to the north of Khartoum which made communication with General Gordon so difficult. The Ja'alin are now a semi-nomad agricultural people.\nIn common with much of the rest of the Arab world, the gradual process of Arabization in Sudan led to the predominance of the Arabic language and aspects of Arab culture, The population of Sudan includes various tribes who are ethnically Arab, such as the Shaigya, Ja'alin, Shukria, Guhayna, etc. (according to Johann Ludwig Burckhardt, the Bedouins of the eastern desert of Sudan such as the Ja'alin are almost indistinguishable from the Bedouins of eastern Arabia.\n\nIt was noted in the late 19th century that the Arabic spoken in Sudan still largely maintained grammatical and dialectical features similar to that introduced from the Arabian Peninsula in the 12th century, and as a result Sudanese Arabic is a form of pure or \"archaic Arabic.\" This, among other features, serves to distinguish the Arabic spoken in Sudan from that of its neighbor, Egypt.\n\nSome Bedaria still farm and raise livestock along the banks of The Nile river and in Western Sudan, but today they more commonly consist of the bulk of the Sudanese urban population, forming a large part of the merchant class. Although many have moved to cities, such as the Sudanese capital of Khartoum, they still maintain their tribal identity and solidarity. Famous for maintaining ties with their homeland, they keep in contact with their original home and return for frequent visits, especially for marriages, funerals and Muslim festivals.\n\n"}
{"id": "34901893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34901893", "title": "Berlin International Green Week", "text": "Berlin International Green Week\n\nBerlin International Green Week (), also called simply Green Week, is an important international trade fair held annually in Berlin, Germany, for processors and marketers in agriculture, horticulture and various food industries. Green Week traditionally takes place at the beginning of the year in the Messe Berlin exhibition halls under the Funkturm and is open to the general public. In 2010 it had around 400,000 visitors. That same year, the Paris International Agricultural Show () had 650,000 visitors.\n\nThe fair is accompanied every year by protests themed \"We are fed up!\". Since to 2011 between 15,000 and 30,000 people join the demonstrations against industrial livestock production and for more sustainable farming.\n\nThe first green week (at that time still not \"international\") was held from 20 to 28 February 1926, when an employee at the Berlin Tourism Office had the idea to combine the traditional winter meeting of the German Agricultural Society with an agricultural exhibition as a secondary showcase for fair participants. Green Week owes its name to the green felt coats () worn by German foresters and farmers. In the first year, there were 50,000 visitors and the fair had covered an area of 7,000 m². \n\nGreen Week took place every year until 1939, with the exception of 1938 because of an outbreak of European foot-and-mouth disease. After the devastation of World War II, Green Week resumed in 1948. After a break in 1951 due to major postwar construction, the fair was held again in 1951 and every year since. Participation of foreign exhibitors increased continuously: by 1963 they accounted two-thirds of exhibitors. After German reunification in the 1990s, Green Week grew substantially. Special shows on topics such as \"German Cheese\" and since 2005 a technical program of over 250 lectures, seminars and symposia round off the exhibition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4685089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4685089", "title": "Bhurgari", "text": "Bhurgari\n\nBhurgri ( ; ; ) is a Baloch tribe which lives in various provinces of Pakistan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15382488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15382488", "title": "California Academy of Distinguished Neutrals", "text": "California Academy of Distinguished Neutrals\n\nThe California Academy of Distinguished Neutrals is the Californian chapter of the National Academy of Distinguished Neutrals.\n\nMembership is limited to California neutrals who have substantial experience in the resolution of commercial & civil disputes, and who have been recognized for their accomplishments through the Academy's peer-nomination and extensive attorney client review process.\n\n, only 120 such attorneys have been recognized by the group, less than 5% of the state's neutrals.\n\n"}
{"id": "42866001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42866001", "title": "Child labour in the Netherlands", "text": "Child labour in the Netherlands\n\nChild labour existed in the Netherlands up to and through the Industrial Revolution. Laws governing child labour in factories were first passed in 1874, but child labour on farms continued to be the norm up until the 20th century.\n\nAs everywhere, child labour in the Netherlands was driven by financial necessity. Children in rural areas have always been expected to help with chores around the home and farm, oftentimes (especially during harvests) foregoing schooling to work at home. This allowed poor rural families to extend their farming activities without having to hire on extra help.\n\nAs the Industrial Revolution came, families moved to the cities for factory work, and lacking childcare, brought their children with them, who were then also put to work. Children provided cheap, agile and fast-learning labour, often able to accomplish manual tasks impossible to adults due to the size of their hands. Factory owners preferred children for their greater docility and willingness to work for lower wages than adults. Because of their greater agility, children were often used for the most dangerous machine maintenance tasks, leading to high death rates among labouring children.\n\nBy 1860, more than 500,000 children (of a then population of three million people) between the ages of 6 and 11 were employed in Netherlands' factories. There appeared to be little opposition to this situation; the government actually encouraged the practice to keep the price of manufactured goods low. Children were employed in various industries, especially textiles, peat excavation, commercial bakeries, and tobacco products production. Typical wages in 1860 were 25 cents/day for girls and 35 cents/day for boys.\n\nBeginning in the second half of the nineteenth century, sentiment began to rise against child labour. Realizing that child labour hampered children's education and was detrimental to their health, and that child labour was reducing the opportunities for adult labourers, the Dutch began to react. Newspaper articles and books were published speaking out against the practice, leading to the first child labour law in 1874. Samuel van Houten introduced the \"Kinderwetje -- van Houten\" (the Child Labour Act) that forbade children younger than 12 from working in factories. The law stipulated penalties for infractions, but did not authorize any agency to enforce the law. It also included many exceptions, such as farm work and home work. Because of its exceptions and lack of enforcement, the law had little effect on the overall child labour situation. It wasn't until 1882 that the government instituted as system of factory inspections to enforce the child labour laws. From 1882 until 1887, the penalties for illegal child labour were limited to fines levied against the factories, but in 1887, penalties became stricter, which led to an overall decline in child factory labour.\n\nIn 1900, the Netherlands passed a law requiring all children to attend school until age 12. Truancy officers were empowered to verify school attendance, and recalcitrant parents were handled with increasingly severe consequences. After age 12, children were free to remain home or enter the work force. There was also at this time the advent of post-compulsory education, providing technical or professional training.\n\nCurrently, children in the Netherlands are required to attend school until the age of 18, or until they receive their secondary (high school) diploma.\n\n"}
{"id": "28298825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28298825", "title": "Corruption in Iran", "text": "Corruption in Iran\n\nCorruption is a serious problem in Iran, being widespread, mostly in the government.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 130 place out of 180 countries. Reformists and conservatives alike – at times even the Supreme Leader – routinely criticize corruption in the government.\n\nThen-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has vouched to fight \"economic/oil Mafia\" at all echelons of government. President Ahmadinejad has also proposed that lawmakers consider a bill, based on which the wealth and property of all officials who have held high governmental posts since 1979 could be investigated. Many Iranians believe the country's economic problems are a byproduct of mismanagement and corruption.\n\nOn February 3, 2013, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad played a video tape in the Iranian parliament that tied the heads of two branches of the government, the legislative and judiciary, to a documented financial corruption case related to the Larijani brothers.\n\nOne of the objectives of the Iranian revolution was to have no social classes in Iran. Yet, Iran's Department of Statistics reports that 10 million Iranians live under the absolute poverty line and 30 million live under the relative poverty line. Iranian President Rouhani has linked social ills, including poverty and homelessness, to corruption.\n\nThe Imperial state of Iran, the government of Iran during the Pahlavi dynasty, lasted from 1925 to 1979. Corruption was a serious problem in Pahlavi dynasty.\n\nStephanie Cronin of Oriental Institute, Oxford, describes corruption under rule of Reza Shah as \"large-scale\". As oil prices rose in 1973, scale of corruption also rose, particularly among royal family, their partners and friends. According to Manouchehr Ganji who created a study group for Farah Pahlavi, Mohammad Reza Shah was not sensitive to the issue, but addressed every now and then petty matters of low-ranking officials. As Ganji writes, the group submitted at least 30 solid reports within 13 years on corruption of high-ranking officials and the royal circle, but Shah called the reports \"false rumors and fabrications\". Parviz Sabeti, a high-ranking official of SAVAK believed that the one important reason for success of regime's opposition is corruption.\n\nAccording to report of a journal associated with The Pentagon, \"By 1977 the sheer scale of corruption had reached a boiling point... Even conservative estimates indicate that such [bureaucratic] corruption involved at least a billion dollars between 1973 and 1976.\"\n\nIn Michel Foucault's view, corruption was a \"glue\" that kept Pahlavi dynasty, despotism and modernization together.\n\nAfter the revolution, the Central Bank of Iran published a list of 177 prominent individuals who had recently transferred over $2 billion out of the country, among them:\n\nMohammad Gholi Majd of University of Pennsylvania believes that \"for the corruption and greed of Reza Shah and his son, the people of Iran paid a heavy price\".\n\nBuilt up by forced sales and confiscations of estates, Reza Shah was \"the richest man in Iran\" and \"left to his heir a bank account of some 3 million pounds and estates totalling over 3 million acres. A 1932 report of British Embassy in Tehran indicates that Reza Shah developed an \"unholy interest in land\" and jailed families until they agreed to sell their properties.\n\nIn the 1950s, Mohammad Reza Shah founded Pahlavi Foundation (now Alavi Foundation) which \"penetrated almost every corner of the nation's economy\". Bostock and Jones unambiguously declared that Pahlavi Foundation a \"nominally charitable foundation fostered official corruption\". According to Houchang Chehabi and Juan Linz, Alavi foundation's $1.05 billion assets, $81 million capital and its declared devined $4.2 million was the \"tip of the iceberg of official and dynastical corruption, outside and inside Iran\". The foundation, which was one of his main wealth sources alongside estates left from Reza Shah and Iran's oil revenue, was a tax haven for his holdings.\n\nMany members of the Pahlavi clan were among the chief perpetrators of corruption in Iran. Royal court was described as \"center of licentiousness and depravity, of corruption and influence peddling\" in a mid-1970s CIA report. Prime Minister Amir Abbas Hoveyda who served from 1965 to 1977 had no choice but to facilitate or condone \"the ubiquitous corruption of the Pahlavi Clan\" and ignore \"the corruption that saturated the regime\".\n\nThe Shah's family members were involved in the illegal drug trade. In 1960, there were rumours that Princess Ashraf, Shah's twin sister was arrested in Geneva carrying a suitcase containing $2 million worth of heroin. She was regarded as Iran's main drug dealer until 1979. A 1976 CIA report declared that she has a \"near legendary reputation for financial corruption\" and his son Shahram controls some-twenty companies that serve as \"cover for Ashraf's quasi-legal business ventures\". Prince Hamid Reza, the Shah's half-brother, was ostracized from the royal family because of his widespread scandals of promiscuity, addiction and involvement in drug trade.\n\nAccording to William Shawcross, hundreds of call girls from Madame Claude's establishment in Paris passed through Tehran for Mohammad Reza Shah and members of his court.\n\nSome scholars have raised the point that widespread corruption among officials and royal court led to the public dissatisfaction and helped the Iranian Revolution.\n\nIn \"Handbook of Crisis and Emergency Management\", the Pahlavi dynasty is described as an example of governments losing legitimation because of corruption and facing a public service crisis as a result.\nAccording to Fakhreddin Azimi, Professor of History at the University of Connecticut, \"the unbridled misconduct of the Pahlavi clan undermined the Shah's proclaimed commitment to combating corruption and seriously damaged his credibility and Stature\".\n\nRight before the revolution, in a 1978 National TV appeal to the nation, Shah said :\n\"I pledge that past mistakes, lawlessness, injustice, and corruption will not only no longer be repeated, but will in every respect be rectified... I guarantee that in future the government in Iran will be based on the Constitution, social justice, and the will of the people, and will be free from despotism, injustice, and corruption.\"\n\nOn the other hand, Khomeini repeatedly argued that the only way to eliminate corruption was through a revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36406509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36406509", "title": "Craven Laboratories", "text": "Craven Laboratories\n\nCraven Laboratories was an American research company based in Austin, Texas.\n\nCraven Laboratories was the first chemical testing lab charged in the United States following establishment of the Food and Drug Administration's Good Laboratory Practices regulations.\n\nThe Environmental Protection Agency announced on March 1, 1991 that it was investigating Craven Laboratories for \"allegedly falsifying test data used by chemical firms to win EPA approval of pesticides.\" The investigation was coordinated by the EPA Office of Prevention, Pesticides, and Toxic Substances, DOJ Environmental Crimes Division, and the United States Attorney.\n\nIn 1991, a federal grand jury indicted the laboratory's owner, Don Allen Craven, with felony counts of conspiracy, mail fraud, making false statements, concealment of material facts, and obstructing EPA proceedings. The head of the Quality Assurance Unit was also charged, as were several lab technicians.\n\nAt least 48 chemicals were approved on the basis of Craven's fraudulent research, 28 of which remained on the market in New Zealand as of 1993. In total, the FDA reported that Craven performed safety analysis for 262 companies.\n\nFollowing conclusion of the EPA's investigation, the Department of Justice announced on February 25, 1994 that the president of Craven Laboratories and fourteen of its former employees were adjudged guilty for the falsification of research data.\n\nMonsanto has stated the Craven Labs investigation was started by the EPA after a pesticide industry task force discovered irregularities, that the studies had been repeated, and that Roundup's EPA certification does not now use any studies from Craven Labs.\n\nFollowing Craven Laboratory's investigation, 11 multinational corporations filed suit against Craven for losses secondary to its misconduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "39679134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39679134", "title": "Crime in Laos", "text": "Crime in Laos\n\nCrime is present in various forms in Laos.\n\nThe US State Department warns that Vang Vieng is a location in Laos of high risk for tourists in relation to risks of rape and robbery. Many restaurants in the Vang Vieng area offer menu items, particularly “pizzas,” “shakes,” or “teas,” that may contain unknown substances or opiates. These products are often advertised as “happy” or “special” items. These unknown substances or opiates can be dangerous, causing serious illness or even death.\n\nSouth Korea in March 2016 followed the US and Australia in issuing a travel warning against trips to Laos’ central province of Xaisomboun, as well as traveling on Route 13 that stretches from Kasi to Phou Khoun, part of the road connection between Vientiane and Luang Prabang.\n\nThe warning followed a number of recent shootings that involved and killed Chinese nationals working in Laos.\n\nPetty crime, which includes snatch theft and pick-pocketing, is an issue in Laos. Fake and infringing merchandise can be easily found in many parts of Laos.\n\nViolent crime is less prominent, though the rate of it has been growing, as of July 2013. Traveling alone in remote areas after dark is of risk especially to foreigners.\n\nCorruption is a problem in Laos. The 2012 Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index ranked the country at number 160, out of 176 countries in total. The government has been making an effort or curb corruption.\n\nThe Illegal drug trade is an important issue in Laos. The country is home to a great number of poppy fields and drug addicts. The Laotian government has been making an effort to end this problem; once one of the world's largest opium producers, Laos now no longer has that strong an opium industry, with some 94% of the opium farms being wiped out from the surface of the country in 2005, prompting the country to call their anti-opium efforts a \"success\". On the other hand, more and more of other drugs such as heroin are being traded in the country.\n\nIn recent years, foreigners have died in Laos after using illegal drugs, such as methamphetamines, opium, or heroin. The potency of some of these drugs can be several times that of similar substances found in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "174143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174143", "title": "Crime of passion", "text": "Crime of passion\n\nA crime of passion (French: crime passionnel), in popular usage, refers to a violent crime, especially homicide, in which the perpetrator commits the act against someone because of sudden strong impulse such as sudden rage rather than as a premeditated crime.\n\nThe 'crime of passion' defense challenges the \"mens rea\" element by suggesting that there was no malice aforethought, and instead the crime was committed in the \"heat of passion.\" In some jurisdictions, a successful 'crime of passion' defense may result in a conviction for manslaughter or second degree murder instead of first degree murder, because a defendant cannot ordinarily be convicted of first degree murder unless the crime was premeditated. A classic example of a crime of passion involves a spouse who, upon finding his or her partner in bed with another, kills the romantic interloper.\n\nIn the United States, claims of \"crimes of passion\" have been traditionally associated with the defenses of temporary insanity or provocation. This defense was first used by U.S. Congressman Daniel Sickles of New York in 1859 after he had killed his wife's lover, Philip Barton Key II. It was used as a defense in murder cases during the 1940s and 1950s. Historically, such defenses were used as complete defenses for various violent crimes, but gradually they became used primarily as a partial defense to a charge of murder; if the court accepts temporary insanity, a murder charge may be reduced to manslaughter.\n\nIn some countries, notably France, \"crime passionnel\" (or \"crime of passion\") was a valid defense to murder charges. During the 19th century, some such cases resulted in a custodial sentence for the murderer of two years. After the Napoleonic code was updated in the 1970s, paternal authority over the members of the family was ended, thus reducing the occasions for which crime passionnel could be claimed. The Canadian Department of Justice, has described crimes of passion as \"abrupt, impulsive, and unpremeditated acts of violence committed by persons, who have come face to face with an incident unacceptable to them, and who are rendered, incapable of self-control for the duration of the act.\"\n\nIn recent decades, feminists and women's rights organizations have worked to change laws and social norms which tolerate crimes of passion against women. UN Women has urged states to review legal defenses of passion and provocation, and other similar laws, to ensure that such laws do not lead to impunity in regard to violence against women, stating that \"laws should clearly state that these defenses do not include or apply to crimes of “honour”, adultery, or domestic assault or murder.\"\n\nThere are differences between crimes of passion (which are generally impulsive and committed by and against both genders) and honor killings, as \"while crimes of passion may be seen as somewhat premeditated to a certain extent, honour killings are usually deliberate, well planned and premeditated acts when a person kills a female relative ostensibly to uphold his honour.\" However, Widney Brown, advocacy director for Human Rights Watch, argued that \"crimes of passion have a similar dynamic in that the women are killed by male family members and the crimes are perceived as excusable or understandable\". Some human rights advocates say that the crimes of passion in Latin America are treated leniently.\n\nThe Council of Europe Recommendation Rec(2002)5 of the Committee of Ministers to member states on the protection of women against violence states that member states should \"preclude adultery as an excuse for violence within the family\".\n\nIn Australia, as in other common law jurisdictions, crimes of passion have traditionally been subjected to the partial defense of provocation, which converts what would have been murder into manslaughter. In recent years, the defense of provocation has come under increased criticism, and, as a result, legal changes have abolished or restricted its application: in 2003, Tasmania became the first state to abolish the partial defense of provocation; the next state to abolish it was Victoria, in 2005; followed by Western Australia in 2008. ACT and Northern Territory have amended the laws to exclude non-violent homosexual sexual advances, in 2004 and 2006, respectively. In Queensland the partial defense of provocation in section 304(1) of the Criminal Code was amended in 2011, in order to \"reduce the scope of the defense being available to those who kill out of sexual possessiveness or jealousy\". In 2014, the New South Wales law on provocation was amended to provide that the provocative conduct of the deceased must also have constituted a serious indictable offense.\n\nKilling of wives due to adultery has been traditionally treated very leniently in Brazil, in court cases where husbands claimed the \"legitimate defense of their honor\" (\"legitima defesa da honra\") as justification for the killing. Although this defense was not explicitly stipulated in the 20th-century Criminal Code, it has been successfully pleaded by lawyers throughout the 20th century, in particular in the interior of the country, though less so in the coastal big cities. In 1991 Brazil’s Supreme Court explicitly rejected the \"honor defense\" as having no basis in Brazilian law.\n\nPrior to 1975, the French Penal Code of 1810 allowed lighter sentences for crimes of passion. Article 324 permitted the murders of an unfaithful wife and her lover at the hand of her husband, though only \"at the moment\" when the wife and her lover were \"[caught] in the fact\" by the husband in the matrimonial home. On November 7, 1975, Law no. 617/75 Article 17 repealed Article 324. Many countries, including some western countries like Belgium, were legally influenced by the Article 324. Prior to 1997, Belgian law provided for mitigating circumstances in the case of a killing or assault against a spouse caught in the act of adultery. In Luxembourg, Article 413 (repealed in 2003) provided mitigating circumstances for murder, assault and injury of an adulterous spouse.\n\nArticle 324 of the French penal code was copied by Middle Eastern Arab countries. According to the Honour Based Violence Awareness Network, the penal codes that were enacted under the Napoleonic Empire influenced the development of laws in North Africa and the Middle East. These laws permit reduced sentences for murders that are \"related to honour\". The French Article 324 inspired Jordan's Article 340 and Article 98. The 1858 Ottoman Penal Code's Article 188 was also inspired by Article 324. Both the French Article 324 and Ottoman article 188 were drawn on to create Jordan's Article 340, which was retained after a 1944 revision of laws, and still applies to this day.\n\nAs with other countries in Mediterranean Europe, Italy has a long tradition of treating crimes of passion with leniency. Indeed, until 1981, the law read: \"Art. 587: He who causes the death of a spouse, daughter, or sister upon discovering her in illegitimate carnal relations and in the heat of passion caused by the offence to his honour or that of his family will be sentenced to three to seven years. The same sentence shall apply to whom, in the above circumstances, causes the death of the person involved in illegitimate carnal relations with his spouse, daughter, or sister\".\n\nIn the Roman Empire the Roman law \"Lex Julia de adulteriis coercendis\" implemented by Augustus Caesar permitted the murder of daughters and their lovers who committed adultery at the hands of their fathers and also permitted the murder of the adulterous wife's lover at the hand of her husband.\n\nKilling due to adultery traditionally fell under the provocation defense. In 1707, English Lord Chief Justice John Holt described the act of a man having sexual relations with another man's wife as \"the highest invasion of property\" and claimed, in regard to the aggrieved husband, that \"a man cannot receive a higher provocation\". Although provocation in English law was abolished on 4 October 2010 by section 56(1) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, it was replaced by a relatively similar defence of \"loss of control\" created by section 54. There has been considerable controversy regarding the application by the courts of the new law; although section 55 states \"(6) In determining whether a loss of self-control had a qualifying trigger (...) (c) the fact that a thing done or said constituted sexual infidelity is to be disregarded\", in a recent controversial decision by Lord Judge in R v Clinton [2012] 1 Cr App R 26 in the Court of Appeal, Lord Judge interpreted the new offence as allowing for sexual infidelity to count under the third prong of the new defence (see Baker and Zhao 2012). This decision has received heavy criticism from academics (see Baker and Zhao, \"Contributory Qualifying and Non-Qualifying Triggers in the Loss of Control Defence: A Wrong Turn on Sexual Infidelity,\" \"Journal of Criminal Law\", Vol. 76, pp. 254, 2012). Vera Baird has also been very critical of the decision, writing, \"It seems that parliament says infidelity doesn't count and the court says it does.\"\n\nA court in the UK dropped murder charges and instead only filed manslaughter for the murder of Paul Wilkins and Kay Morton after Kay's boyfriend William Cranston killed them in his fury. \"Loss of control\" in the murder of unfaithful women by their male partners was considered acceptable as a reason to kill by Lord Chief Justice Lord Judge of England, the murder of the wife of Jon Clinton by Jon was examined by Lord Judge who ordered a retrial, overturning the original life sentence and allowing the infidelity of his wife to be entered as evidence.\n\nThe murder of Tonya Lynn, who committed infidelity, by her husband James Lynn Jr., was given a retrial with evidence of his wife's cheating included while his original murder conviction was thrown out by the Georgia Supreme Court. In the murder case of Fumiko Ogawa, a plea deal which agreed that the murder was committed due to a \"sudden quarrel in the heat of passion\" saw her husband Anthony Simoneau's sentence reduced from 25 years for murder to 11 years for voluntary manslaughter. Tulsa police officer, Betty Shelby, who shot Terence Crutcher, shows that she has been charged with first-degree manslaughter in heat of passion.\n\nIn Uruguay, crimes of passion continue to be legally tolerated; in certain circumstances, the law exonerates a perpetrator when a killing or a battery was committed due to \"passion provoked by adultery\". Article 36 of the Criminal Code provides for this:\n\n\"Artículo 36. (La pasión provocada por el adulterio)\"\n\n\"La pasión provocada por el adulterio faculta al Juez para exonerar de pena por los delitos de homicidio y de lesiones, siempre que concurran los requisitos siguientes:\"\n\nSince 2013, there have been ongoing political efforts to remove this provision from the Criminal Code.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3051902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3051902", "title": "David Karr", "text": "David Karr\n\nDavid Harold Karr, born David Katz (1918, Brooklyn, New York – 7 July 1979, Paris) was a controversial American journalist, businessman, Communist and NKVD agent.\n\nEnthralled with the radical left, Karr began writing at a relatively young age for the Communist Party USA publication, the \"Daily Worker\".\n\nIn 1943 Karr came under the scrutiny of Rep. Martin Dies Jr., chairman of the House Special Committee on Un-American Activities for his Communist affiliations. Karr was at the time working for the Office of War Information (OWI). Karr appeared before the committee and stated under oath that he was an informant for the FBI, although this testimony was entirely a manufactured story. A special congressional investigation found no cause to remove him while at the same time the Civil Service Commission concluded he was both untruthful and unreliable. Karr resigned from the OWI and was immediately hired by Drew Pearson, one of America's most widely read columnists. Years later, after the release of the Venona decrypts, a decryption from June 1944, established that Karr was an informational source for the NKVD. In it, Soviet agent Vladimir Pravdin reported to Moscow information he stated he received from Soviet TASS deputy bureau chief Samuel Krafsur from his contact (Karr).\n\nKarr earned a reputation as an unscrupulous investigative reporter who misrepresented himself to sources. In 1944, Karr was also active in Vice President Henry Wallace's effort to remain on the presidential ticket. President Franklin Roosevelt referred to Karr as a \"chronic liar\". During the war, Karr was investigated twice by the FBI, once after obtaining a secret report on Soviet leader Joseph Stalin prepared for President Roosevelt by Oskar Lange, who was another NKVD source in the administration. To obtain the report, Karr claimed to be on Vice President Wallace's staff.\n\nOn 12 September 1946 Pearson wrote an article based on a classified U.S. military study of British military operations against the Greek Communist insurgency. The article, which alarmed the U.S. State Department, contained highly classified information on the British order of battle in Greece. The document had been in the office of the Director of the Office of Special Political Affairs, one Alger Hiss. An investigation revealed that the original document was missing, and that the information reached Pearson through his aide, David Karr. The FBI suspected that Karr was working for the KGB, and that his income was derived in part from the Soviet government.\n\nThe FBI had Phillip Jaffe under audio surveillance during the Amerasia investigation and overheard Jaffe discussing with Andrew Roth various possible contacts for information from government sources. Roth told Jaffe that Karr could obtain \"a lot of stuff on the Far Eastern things that the other guys don't get because of his Treasury connections. He goes up once a week with Harry\". Jaffe inquired as to whether this was Harry Dexter White, already under suspicion for communicating information to the Soviet Union; Roth stated that it was. In 1950, Senator Joseph McCarthy referred to Karr as Drew Pearson's \"KGB controller\".\n\nKarr later began a series of articles on the use of public relations in business takeovers. In 1959, Karr became CEO of the Fairbanks-Whitney Corporation, a large defense contractor whose divisions included Colt Firearms. After three years the shareholders dismissed him. Karr then turned to film and hotel businesses, and in 1971 became associated with Armand Hammer, who expanded Karr's contacts and business opportunities in the Soviet Union. Karr became a good friend of the son-in-law of Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin, Dzherman Gvishiani, and was granted North and South American trademark rights to Misha the Bear, the mascot of the 1980 Olympic games. Along with Hammer, he formed a joint venture to make and sell Olympic commemorative coins, an enterprise estimated to be worth some U.S. $200 million.\n\nDavid Karr frequently boasted of having close ties with prominent U.S. senators and presidential candidates, and that he transmitted information between the Soviet and American governments on such issues as détente, trade, and strategic-arms negotiations. Karr, who was at that time living in Paris, was head of a Franco-American firm called Finatech. According to KGB files, Karr arranged meetings between Sen. Edward Kennedy and Soviet leaders. A KGB file describes Kennedy in 1978 trying to help a close friend, former Sen. John Tunney of California, get some business in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1992, Yevgenia Albats, a Russian journalist assigned by the Russian Parliament to examine the archives after the aborted Soviet coup attempt of 1991, quoted \"an extremely top secret KGB memo to Soviet leaders\":\n\nIn late 1978, as Occidental Petroleum was attempting an unfriendly takeover of the Mead Corporation, Karr told a bizarre story in secret testimony before the Securities and Exchange Commission. One night in 1972, Karr said, he was summoned to a hotel in Moscow to find Hammer in his pajamas, in tears and on his knees, pleading with two K.G.B. agents not to arrest him. Hammer was being accused of bribery and smuggling two letters written by the founder of the USSR, V.I. Lenin, letters Hammer purchased at an auction in New York. Karr said that Hammer was let off the hook by agreeing to donate the treasures to the Soviet Union.\n\nWithin days of learning of Karr's public disclosure, Hammer dropped his takeover bid of Meade. Seven months later, in July 1979, hours after returning from a trip to Moscow, Karr was found dead in suspicious circumstances in his Paris hotel room. Amid suspicions that Karr had been murdered, his widow halted the burial so that an autopsy could be performed. One claim was that Karr had swindled his Russian partners. Rumors linked his friend Gvishiani to bribery scandals. Israeli intelligence officials claimed Karr was involved in secret Russian arms sales to states on the U.S. State Department's terrorist watchlist, namely Libya and Uganda.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1992, in the new atmosphere of openness, Soviet investigative journalist Albats published an article in \"Izvestia\" quoting documents from KGB archives that Karr was \"a competent KGB source\" who \"submitted information to the KGB on the technical capabilities of the United States and other capitalist countries.\"\n\nIn 2009, David Karr's grandson Doug Karr made the short film Ten for Grandpa about his fabled ancestor. A fast paced investigation into Karr's complex life, the film premiered at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival and went on to screen at dozens of other international film festivals.\n\n"}
{"id": "40003943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40003943", "title": "Deagrarianization", "text": "Deagrarianization\n\nDeagrarianization is a term to describe the process of moving the societal structure away from an agrarian mode toward something else.\n"}
{"id": "5461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5461", "title": "Demographics of Cape Verde", "text": "Demographics of Cape Verde\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Cape Verde, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nCape Verde has a population of about round -4 inhabitants, divided evenly of those who live in the islands and the ones who live abroad in the Cape Verdean diaspora in mainland Africa, Europe, U.S., Brazil, et cetera. A large proportion (236,000) of Cape Verdeans live on the main island, Santiago.\n\nThe archipelago of Cape Verde were first found and claimed by Portuguese sailors working for the Portuguese Crown in 1456. Subsequently, enslaved Africans and Portuguese convicts were brought to the islands to work as agricultural field hands. As a result of the intermingling and genetic liaison of the said populations, some of the present day Cape Verdeans are considered \"mulattoes\", who have mixed black and white origins. European ancestors also include Spanish, Italian and French seamen who were granted land by the Portuguese Empire, followed by Portuguese settlers, exiles, and Portuguese Jews who were victims of the Inquisition yet perpetrated slavery. Many foreigners from other parts of the world settled in Cape Verde as their permanent country. Most of them were Dutch, French, British (English), Arab and Jewish (from Lebanon and Morocco). All of these have been absorbed into the \"mixed\" population.\n\nThe high degree of genetic mixture of individuals is a result of centuries of migration. It is not unusual to encounter persons with dark skin, blond hair, and blue eyes, and persons with seemingly light caucasian skin and textured curly hair.\n\nSurvival in a country with few natural resources has historically induced Cape Verdeans to emigrate. In fact, of the more than 1 million people of Cape Verdean ancestry in the world, only a little more than one-third actually live on the islands. Some 500,000 people of Cape Verdean ancestry live in the United States, mainly in New England. Many people of Cape Verdean ancestry also live in Portugal, Netherlands, France, Italy, Mexico, Uruguay, Argentina, and Senegal. Cape Verdean populations also settled Spain, Germany, Canada, and other CPLP countries (Angola, Brazil and Guinea-Bissau). Since after independence from Portugal in 1975, a number of Cape Verdean students continued to be admitted every year at Portuguese high schools, polytechnical institutes and universities, through bilateral agreements between the Portuguese and Cape Verdean governments.\n\nPortuguese functions as a state language. Virtually all formal documents and official declarations are stated in Portuguese. But it is not the first language. Cape Verdean, commonly called Creolo, is spoken as a mother tongue by virtually all Cape Verdeans, irrespective of social status or religious affiliation. Moreover, historical linguists often attribute Cape Verdean Creole as the oldest \"New World\" contact language. It is a \"contact\" language in the sense that it was birthed and evolved between linguistically different groups who, by necessity, had to create a common language to communicate with each other. There is a rich repertoire of literature and songs in Cape Verdean Creole. In religion, the majority of Cape Verdeans follow Catholic Christianity. There are some Protestants, Bahá'ís and Muslims.\n\nAccording to the total population was in , compared to only 178 000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 31.8%, 62.3% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 5.9% was 65 years or older.\n\nVital events of Cape Verde are not (yet) available for recent years. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nBirths and deaths\nTotal fertility rate (TFR) (wanted fertility rate) and crude birth rate (CBR):\n\nFertility data from 2005 (DHS Program):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nE1b1a, R1b\n\n"}
{"id": "25189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25189", "title": "Demographics of Qatar", "text": "Demographics of Qatar\n\nNatives of the Arabian Peninsula, many Qataris are descended from a number of migratory Arab tribes that came to Qatar in the 18th century from mainly the neighboring areas of Nejd and Al-Hasa. Some are descended from Omani tribes. Qatar has about 2.6 million inhabitants as of early 2017, the majority of whom (about 92%) live in Doha, the capital. Foreign workers amount to around 88% of the population, with Indians being the largest community numbering around 691,000. As of an unofficial 2017 report, there were a further 350,000 Nepalis, 280,000 Bangladeshis, 260,000 Filipinos, 200,000 Egyptians, 145,000 Sri Lankans and 125,000 Pakistanis among many other nationalities. The treatment of these foreign workers has been heavily criticized in recent years, with living conditions suggested to be exploitative and abusive.\n\nThe Qataris are mainly Sunni Muslims. Islam is the official religion, and Islamic jurisprudence is the basis of Qatar's legal system. A significant minority of the population is Hindu. Arabic is the official language and English is the lingua franca of business. Hindi and Urdu are also widely spoken, especially by the South Asian foreign workers. Education is compulsory and free for all citizens 6–16 years old. Qatar has an increasingly high literacy rate.\n\nQataris can be divided into three ethnic groups: Bedouins, Hadar, and Africans-origin. Bedouins are descended from the nomads of the Arabian Peninsula. The Hadar are mostly descended from Iran, Pakistan, and Afghanistan and are occasionally referred to as \"Irani-Qataris\".\n\nAs of 2011-2014 report by International Organization for Migration, 176,748 Nepali Citizens of Madhesi ethnicity lived in Qatar as migrant workers.\nAs of 2012, about 7,000 Turkish nationals live in Qatar.\n\nAs of 2016, about 1,000 Colombian nationals and descendants live in Qatar.\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther sources\n\n\n\n\nY-Chromosome DNA Y-DNA represents the male lineage, The Qatari Y-chromosome in large belongs to haplogroup J which comprises two thirds of the total chromosomes\n\nMitochondrial DNA mtDNA represents the female lineage The Qatari mitochondrial DNA shows much more diversity than the Y-DNA lineages, with more than 35% of the lineages showing African ancestry (East African & Subsaharan) & the rest of the lineages being Eurasian.\n"}
{"id": "308392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=308392", "title": "Diggers", "text": "Diggers\n\nThe Diggers were a group of Protestant radicals in England, sometimes seen as forerunners of modern anarchism, and also associated with agrarian socialism and Georgism. Gerrard Winstanley's followers were known as \"True Levellers\" in 1649 and later became known as \"Diggers,\" because of their attempts to farm on common land.\n\nTheir original name came from their belief in economic equality based upon a specific passage in the Acts of the Apostles. The Diggers tried (by \"leveling\" land) to reform the existing social order with an agrarian lifestyle based on their ideas for the creation of small, egalitarian rural communities. They were one of a number of nonconformist dissenting groups that emerged around this time.\n\nThe year 1649 was a time of great social unrest in England. The Parliamentarians had won the First English Civil War but failed to negotiate a constitutional settlement with the defeated King Charles I. When members of Parliament and the Grandees in the New Model Army were faced with Charles' perceived duplicity, they tried and executed him.\n\nGovernment through the King's Privy Council was replaced with a new body called the Council of State, which due to fundamental disagreements within a weakened Parliament was dominated by the Army. Many people became active in politics, suggesting alternative forms of government to replace the old order. \n\nRoyalists wished to place King Charles II on the throne; men like Oliver Cromwell wished to govern with a plutocratic Parliament voted in by an electorate based on property, similar to that which was enfranchised before the civil war; agitators called Levellers, influenced by the writings of John Lilburne, wanted parliamentary government based on an electorate of every male head of a household; Fifth Monarchy Men advocated a theocracy; and the Diggers, led by Gerrard Winstanley, advocated a more radical solution.\n\nIn 1649 Gerrard Winstanley and 14 others published a pamphlet in which they called themselves the \"True Levellers\" to distinguish their ideas from those of the Levellers. Once they put their idea into practice and started to cultivate common land, both opponents and supporters began to call them \"Diggers\". The Diggers' beliefs were informed by Winstanley's writings which envisioned an ecological interrelationship between humans and nature, acknowledging the inherent connections between people and their surroundings. Winstanley declared that \"true freedom lies where a man receives his nourishment and preservation, and that is in the use of the earth\".\n\nAn undercurrent of political thought which has run through English society for many generations and resurfaced from time to time (for example, in the Peasants' Revolt in 1381) was present in some of the political factions of the 17th century, including those who formed the Diggers. It involved the common belief that England had become subjugated by the \"Norman Yoke\". This legend offered an explanation that at one time a \"golden Era\" had existed in England before the Norman Conquest in 1066. From the Conquest on, the Diggers argued, the \"common people of England\" had been robbed of their birthrights and exploited by a foreign ruling-class.\n\nThe Council of State received a letter in April 1649 reporting that several individuals had begun to plant vegetables in common land on St George's Hill, Weybridge near Cobham, Surrey at a time when food prices reached an all-time high. Sanders reported that they had invited \"all to come in and help them, and promise them meat, drink, and clothes.\" They intended to pull down all enclosures and cause the local populace to come and work with them. They claimed that their number would be several thousand within ten days. \"It is feared they have some design in hand.\" In the same month, the Diggers issued their most famous pamphlet and manifesto, called \"The True Levellers Standard Advanced\".\n\nAt the behest of the local landowners, the commander of the New Model Army, Sir Thomas Fairfax, duly arrived with his troops and interviewed Winstanley and another prominent member of the Diggers, William Everard. Everard suspected that the Diggers were in serious trouble and soon left the group. Fairfax, meanwhile, having concluded that Diggers were doing no harm, advised the local landowners to use the courts.\n\nWinstanley remained and continued to write about the treatment they received. The harassment from the Lord of the Manor, Francis Drake (not the famous Francis Drake, who had died more than 50 years before), was both deliberate and systematic: he organised gangs in an attack on the Diggers, including numerous beatings and an arson attack on one of the communal houses. Following a court case, in which the Diggers were forbidden to speak in their own defence, they were found guilty of being Ranters, a radical sect associated with liberal sexuality (though in fact Winstanley had reprimanded Ranter Laurence Clarkson for his sexual practices). Having lost the court case, if they had not left the land, then the army could have been used to enforce the law and evict them; so they abandoned Saint George's Hill in August 1649, much to the relief of the local freeholders.\n\nSome of the evicted Diggers moved a short distance to Little Heath in Surrey. were cultivated, six houses built, winter crops harvested, and several pamphlets published. After initially expressing some sympathy for them, the local lord of the manor of Cobham, Parson John Platt, became their chief enemy. He used his power to stop local people helping them and he organised attacks on the Diggers and their property. By April 1650, Platt and other local landowners succeeded in driving the Diggers from Little Heath.\n\nThere was another community of Diggers close to Wellingborough in Northamptonshire. In 1650, the community published a declaration which started:\n\nThis colony was probably founded as a result of contact with the Surrey Diggers. In late March 1650, four emissaries from the Surrey colony were arrested in Buckinghamshire bearing a letter signed by the Surrey Diggers including Gerrard Winstanley and Robert Coster inciting people to start Digger colonies and to provide money for the Surrey Diggers. According to the newspaper \"A Perfect Diurnall\" the emissaries had travelled a circuit through the counties of Surrey, Middlesex, Hertfordshire, Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire, Huntingdonshire and Northamptonshire before being apprehended.\n\nOn 15 April 1650 the Council of State ordered Mr Pentlow, a justice of the peace for Northamptonshire to proceed against 'the Levellers in those parts' and to have them tried at the next Quarter Session. The Iver Diggers recorded that nine of the Wellingborough Diggers were arrested and imprisoned in Northampton jail and although no charges could be proved against them the justice refused to release them.\n\nCaptain William Thompson, the leader of the failed \"Banbury mutiny,\" was killed in a skirmish close to the community by soldiers loyal to Oliver Cromwell in May 1649.\n\nAnother colony of Diggers connected to the Surrey and Wellingborough colony was set up in Iver, Buckinghamshire about from the Surrey Diggers colony at St George's Hill (see Keith Thomas, 'Another Digger Broadside' Past and Present No.42, (1969) pp. 57–68). The Iver Diggers' \"Declaration of the grounds and Reasons, why we the poor Inhabitants of the Parrish of Iver in Buckinghamshire ...\" revealed that there were further Digger colonies in Barnet in Hertfordshire, Enfield in Middlesex, Dunstable in Bedfordshire, Bosworth in Gloucestershire and a further colony in Nottinghamshire. It also revealed that after the failure of the Surrey colony, the Diggers had left their children to be cared for by parish funds.\n\nDuring the middle and late 1960s, the San Francisco Diggers (who took their name from the original English Diggers) opened stores which simply gave away their stock; provided free food, medical care, transport and temporary housing; they also organised free music concerts and works of political art. Some of their happenings included the Death of Money Parade, Intersection Game, Invisible Circus, and Death of Hippie/Birth of Free.\n\nThe Diggers were a radical community-action group of community activists and Improv actors operating from 1966 to 1968, based in the Haight-Ashbury neighbourhood of San Francisco. Their politics were such that they have sometimes been categorised as \"left-wing\". More precisely, they were \"community anarchists\" who blended a desire for freedom with a consciousness of the community in which they lived. They were closely associated with and shared a number of members with a guerrilla theatre group named the San Francisco Mime Troupe. Like the original English Diggers, they envisioned a society free from private property, and all forms of buying and selling. Actor Peter Coyote was a founding member of the Diggers.\n\nThe American Diggers were echoed in the 1960s in the UK (see Alternative Society and Sid Rawle). Since the revival of anarchism in the British anti-roads movement, the Diggers have been celebrated as precursors of land squatting and communalism. \nApril 1, 1999, on the 350th anniversary of Gerrard Winstanley and the Diggers' occupation of the English Civil War on the same hill, The Land Is Ours organised a rally, then occupied land at St. George's Hill near Weybridge, Surrey.\nIn 2011, an annual festival began in Wigan to celebrate the Diggers. In 2012, the second annual festival proved a great success and the sixth took place in 2016. In Wellingborough, a festival has also been held annually since 2011. Bolton Diggers were established in 2013 and have promoted \"the commons\" as a foil to privatisation. They have established community food gardens, cooperatives and the Common Wealth café, a pay-as-you-feel café using surplus food from supermarkets. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85437", "title": "Doric Greek", "text": "Doric Greek\n\nDoric, or Dorian, was an Ancient Greek dialect. Its variants were spoken in the southern and eastern Peloponnese as well as in Sicily, Epirus, Southern Italy, Crete, Rhodes, some islands in the southern Aegean Sea and some cities on the south east coast of Anatolia. Together with Northwest Greek, it forms the \"Western group\" of classical Greek dialects. By Hellenistic times, under the Achaean League, an Achaean-Doric koiné language appeared, exhibiting many peculiarities common to all Doric dialects, which delayed the spread of the Attic-based Koine Greek to the Peloponnese until the 2nd century BC.\n\nIt is widely accepted that Doric originated in the mountains of Epirus in northwestern Greece, the original seat of the Dorians. It was expanded to all other regions during the Dorian invasion (c. 1150 BC) and the colonisations that followed. The presence of a Doric state (Doris) in central Greece, north of the Gulf of Corinth, led to the theory that Doric had originated in northwest Greece or maybe beyond in the Balkans. The dialect's distribution towards the north extends to the Megarian colony of Byzantium and the Corinthian colonies of Potidaea, Epidamnos, Apollonia and Ambracia; there, it further added words to what would become the Albanian language, probably via traders from a now-extinct Illyrian intermediary. Local epigraphical evidence is restricted to the decrees of the Epirote League and the Pella curse tablet (both in the early 4th century BC) as well to the Doric eponym \"Machatas\", first attested in Macedonia (early 5th century BC).\n\nWhere the Doric dialect group fits in the overall classification of ancient Greek dialects depends to some extent on the classification. Several views are stated under Greek dialects. The prevalent theme of most views listed there is that Doric is a subgroup of West Greek. Some use the terms Northern Greek or Northwest Greek instead. The geographic distinction is only verbal and ostensibly is misnamed: all of Doric was spoken south of \"Southern Greek\" or \"Southeastern Greek.\"\n\nBe that as it may, \"Northern Greek\" is based on a presumption that Dorians came from the north and on the fact that Doric is closely related to Northwest Greek. When the distinction began is not known. All the \"northerners\" might have spoken one dialect at the time of the Dorian invasion; certainly, Doric could only have further differentiated into its classical dialects when the Dorians were in place in the south. Thus West Greek is the most accurate name for the classical dialects.\n\nTsakonian, a descendant of Laconian Doric (Spartan), is still spoken on the southern Argolid coast of the Peloponnese, in the modern prefectures of Arcadia and Laconia. Today it is a source of considerable interest to linguists, and an endangered dialect.\n\nThe dialects of the Doric Group are as follows:\n\nLaconian was spoken by the population of Laconia in the southern Peloponnese and also by its colonies, Tarentum and Herakleia in Magna Graecia. Sparta was the seat of ancient Laconia.\n\nLaconian is attested in inscriptions on pottery and stone from the seventh century BC. A dedication to Helen dates from the second quarter of the seventh century. Tarentum was founded in 706 and its founders must already have spoken Laconic.\n\nMany documents from the state of Sparta survive, whose citizens called themselves Lacedaemonians after the name of the valley in which they lived. Homer calls it \"hollow Lacedaemon\", though he refers to a pre-Dorian period. The seventh century Spartan poet Alcman used a dialect that some consider to be predominantly Laconian. Philoxenus of Alexandria wrote a treatise \"On the Laconian dialect\".\n\nArgolic was spoken in the thickly settled northeast Peloponnese at, for example, Argos, Mycenae, Hermione, Troezen, Epidaurus, and as close to Athens as the island of Aegina. As Mycenaean Greek had been spoken in this dialect region in the Bronze Age, it is clear that the Dorians overran it but were unable to take Attica. The Dorians went on from Argos to Crete and Rhodes.\n\nAmple inscriptional material of a legal, political and religious content exists from at least the sixth century BC.\n\nCorinthian was spoken first in the isthmus region between the Peloponnesus and mainland Greece; that is, the Isthmus of Corinth. The cities and states of the Corinthian dialect region were Corinth, Sicyon, Archaies Kleones, Phlius, the colonies of Corinth in western Greece: Corcyra, Leucas, Anactorium, Ambracia and others, the colonies in and around Italy: Syracuse, Sicily and Ancona, and the colonies of Corcyra: Dyrrachium, and Apollonia. The earliest inscriptions at Corinth date from the early sixth century BC. They use a Corinthian epichoric alphabet. (See under Attic Greek.)\n\nCorinth contradicts the prejudice that Dorians were rustic militarists, as some consider the speakers of Laconian to be. Positioned on an international trade route, Corinth played a leading part in the re-civilizing of Greece after the centuries of disorder and isolation following the collapse of Mycenaean Greece.\n\nThe Northwest Greek group is closely related to Doric proper, while sometimes there is no distinction between Doric and the Northwest Greek. Whether it is to be considered a part of the Doric Group or the latter a part of it or the two considered subgroups of West Greek, the dialects and their grouping remain the same. West Thessalian and Boeotian had come under a strong Northwest Greek influence. The Northwest Greek dialects differ from the Doric Group dialects in the below features:\n\nThe dialects are as follows:\nThis dialect was spoken in Phocis and in its main settlement, Delphi. Because of that it is also cited as Delphian.\nPlutarch says that Delphians pronounce \"b\" in the place of \"p\" ( for )\n\n\nThe dialect of Elis is considered, after Aeolic Greek, one of the most difficult for the modern reader of epigraphic texts (earliest c. 600 BC)\n\nCalydon sanctuary (earliest c. 600-575 BC) - Aetolian League 300-262 BC\n\n\nA school of thought maintains that the Ancient Macedonian language may have been a Greek dialect, possibly of the Northwestern group in particular, although other scholars would classify Macedonian as a separate marginal or \"deviant Greek dialect\" on its own.\n\nProto-Greek long \"ā\" → Doric \"ā\" ~ Attic long open \"ē\" (eta) in at least some positions.\n\nIn certain Doric dialects (Severe Doric), \"e\" and \"o\" lengthen by compensatory lengthening or contraction to eta or omega ~ Attic \"ei\" and \"ou\" (spurious diphthongs).\n\nContraction: Proto-Greek \"ae\" → Doric \"ē\" (eta) ~ Attic \"ā\".\n\nProto-Greek \"eo\", \"ea\" → some Doric dialects' \"io, ia\".\n\nProto-Greek short \"a\" → Doric short \"a\" ~ Attic \"e\" in certain words.\n\nProto-Greek \"-ti\" is retained (assibilated to \"-si\" in Attic).\n\nProto-Greek \"-ss-\" between vowels is retained (shortened to \"-s-\" in Attic).\n\nInitial \"w\" (ϝ) is preserved in earlier Doric (lost in Attic).\nLiterary texts in Doric and inscriptions from the Hellenistic age have no digamma.\n\nFor information on the peculiarities of Doric accentuation, see Ancient Greek accent#Dialect variation\n\nNumeral \"tetores\" ~ Attic \"tettares\", Ionic \"tesseres\" \"four\".\n\nOrdinal \"prātos\" ~ Attic–Ionic \"prōtos\" \"first\".\n\nDemonstrative pronoun \"tēnos\" \"this\" ~ Attic–Ionic \"(e)keinos\"\n\n\"t\" for \"h\" (from Proto-Indo-European \"s\") in article and demonstrative pronoun.\n\nThird person plural, athematic or root aorist \"-n\" ~ Attic \"-san\".\n\nFirst person plural active \"-mes\" ~ Attic–Ionic \"-men\".\n\nFuture \"-se-ō\" ~ Attic \"-s-ō\".\n\nModal particle \"ka\" ~ Attic–Ionic \"an\".\n\nTemporal adverbs in \"-ka\" ~ Attic–Ionic \"-te\".\n\nLocative adverbs in \"-ei\" ~ Attic/Koine \"-ou\".\n\nThe aorist and future of verbs in \"-izō\", \"-azō\" has \"x\" (versus Attic/Koine \"s\").\nSimilarly \"k\" before suffixes beginning with \"t\".\n\n\nArgive\n\nCretan\n\nLaconian\n\nMagna Graecian Doric\n\nAetolian-Acarnanian\nDelphic-Locrian\nElean\nEpirotic\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38084763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38084763", "title": "Euro Bank Scandal", "text": "Euro Bank Scandal\n\nThe Euro Bank Scandal is a scandal that in February 2003, caused a political storm in Kenya after the collapse of Nairobi Based Euro Bank. This resulted in a loss of 1.4bn Kenyan shillings (£11.6m; $18m) which state organisations had deposited in the Bank.\n\nThe National Social Security Fund lost 256m shillings (£2.1m; $3.3m), the Kenyatta National Hospital 421m shillings with the biggest casualty being the National Hospital Insurance Fund, which lost 479m shillings in the collapse.\nOther state losses incurred were from Kenya Post Office Savings Bank Sh65 million, Kenya Tourist Development Corporation (KTDC) Sh60 million, Kenya Pipeline Company Sh55 million and Kenya Sugar Board Sh55 million.\n\nThe bank's collapse with pensions savings for thousands of workers, resulted in the resignation of Nahashon Nyagah the Governor of the Central Bank of Kenya for failing to prevent the \nAlso forced to resign was John Munge the Kenya Revenue Authority(KRA) Commissioner-General who was a director of Euro Bank, and had previously worked at another bank that collapsed.\n\nFive years after the scandal, little progress had been made in recovery of the lost funds. Some cases over the fraud at the bank have since been dropped following the death of key suspects including:\n\nZachary Kamondo who initially fled to Scandinavia had most of his property seized was by the Government.\n\nSome suspects arraigned in court were acquitted. They are: \n\nMr Muthamia & Mr Firdosh had been sued by Kenya Pipeline Company.\n\nMost of the remaining cases had been referred to a constitutional court established in January 2004 after the accused challenged the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission's legality in the prosecution.\n\nThese were former parastatal heads: \n\nThe attorney-general withdrew a case involving a former Euro Bank employee, Mr Peter Fernandez, whom the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission had accused of stealing from the bank.\n\nMr Fernandez, alongside former colleagues Isaac Njagi and Jason Mutuma as well as his (Mr Fernandez’s) employee, Mr Rikki Kimani, faced yet another case filed by NSSF for alleged destruction of exhibits.\n\nOther cases involved \n"}
{"id": "31637238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31637238", "title": "Freemasonry in Indonesia", "text": "Freemasonry in Indonesia\n\nFreemasonry was introduced by the Dutch to what is today Indonesia during the VOC era in the 18th century, and spread throughout the Dutch East Indies during a wave of westernisation in the 19th century. Freemasons originally only included Europeans and Indo-Europeans, but later also indigenous people with a Western education.\n\nActive freemasonry existed throughout the Dutch East Indies (now: Indonesia) from 1762 to 1962. The first lodge in Asia \"La Choisie\" was founded in Batavia by Jacobus Cornelis Mattheus Radermacher (1741–1783). In July 1772 Abraham van der Weijden established the Lodge\" La Fidele Sinceritie \" in Batavia.\nIn 1922 a Dutch Provincial Grand Lodge, under the Grand Orient of the Netherlands, at Weltevreden (Batavia) controlled twenty Lodges in the colony. Fourteen in Java, three in Sumatra and others in places such as Makassar.\n\nThe lodges in the colony played a role in the social emancipation of the Indo-Europeans, as well as of the so-called Foreign Orientals, such as the ethnic-Chinese and Arabs. Freemasonry also had a significant impact on the Indonesian National Awakening preluding the national revolution. In 1836 the painter Raden Saleh was the first indigenous person to become a freemason and joined the lodge \"Eendracht maakt Macht\" in The Hague. The first indigenous member of a lodge in the Dutch East Indies was Abdul Rachman, a descendant of the sultan of Pontianak, in 1844. A famous freemason and Grand Master (Masonic) was the Indo politician Dick de Hoog, who was the main leader of the Indo emancipation movement and president of the Indo European Alliance. Other prominent Freemasons were the Peranakan tycoon Loa Po Seng and his half-Indo grandson, the politician and parliamentarian Loa Sek Hie.\n\nMost lodges were closed during the Japanese occupation, unless otherwise indicated. All lodges in Indonesia were closed when freemasonry was outlawed by Sukarno in 1961.\nSpecific lodges in the Dutch East Indies included:\n"}
{"id": "9543863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9543863", "title": "History of cardiopulmonary resuscitation", "text": "History of cardiopulmonary resuscitation\n\nCardiopulmonary resuscitation, also known by the acronym CPR is an emergency procedure performed in an effort to manually preserve intact brain function until further measures are taken to restore spontaneous blood circulation and breathing in a person who is in cardiac arrest. It is a basic but proven first aid skill, practiced throughout the world. It is an effective method of keeping a victim of cardiac arrest alive long enough for definitive treatment to be delivered (usually defibrillation and intravenous cardiac drugs).\n\nPrior to the inception of Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation, there had been some techniques to keep people alive developed in the 18th century, both in Japan and in Europe, however it was not until the mid-20th century that James Elam and Peter Safar discovered and published the method now known as CPR. Safar conducted research on existing basic life support procedures including controlling a person’s breathing airway by tilting back his or her head with an open mouth; and using mouth-to-mouth breathing. He combined these with a procedure known as closed-chest cardiac massage to become the basic life support method of CPR.\n\nThroughout his life Safar was hesitant to take credit for \"inventing\" CPR. The way he saw it, he merely brought to light effective procedures that humans had already discovered, putting them together into what he called \"the ABCs\" – maintaining a patient's Airway, Breathing and Circulation. He worked hard to popularize the procedure around the world and collaborated with Norwegian toy maker Asmund Laerdal to create \"Resusci Anne,\" the CPR training mannequin. Laerdal now is a medical equipment manufacturer.\n\nSafar also created the first guidelines for community-wide emergency medical services, or EMS; he founded the International Resuscitation Research Center (IRRC) at the University of Pittsburgh, which he directed until 1994; and he was nominated three times for the Nobel Prize in medicine.\n\nIn August 1767 a few wealthy and civic-minded citizens in Amsterdam gathered to form the Society for Recovery of Drowned Persons. This society was the first organized effort to respond to sudden death.\n\nThe society's techniques involved a range of methods to stimulate the body. The members of the society recommended:\n\nThe society in Amsterdam claimed to have saved 150 persons, within four years of their founding, with their recommendations.\n\nThe first four of these techniques, or variations of them, are in use today.\n\nFollowing successes of this first society, rescue societies soon sprang up in most European capitals, all with the goal to find a way of successfully resuscitating victims of sudden death. This theory proved so popular that Hamburg, Germany passed an ordinance in 1769 providing notices to be read in churches describing assistance for drowned, strangled, and frozen persons and those overcome by noxious gases, probably the first example of mass medical training. The Royal Humane Society in London, founded in 1774, served as the model for societies in New York, Philadelphia, and Boston. These rescue societies of the 18th century were the precursors of today’s emergency medical services. \n\nSimilar techniques were described in early 20th century jujutsu and judo books, as being used as far back as early 17th century. A \"New York Times\" correspondent reported those techniques being used successfully in Japan in 1910. In jujutsu (and later on, judo), those techniques were called \"kappo\" or \"kutasu\".\nScientists and doctors started to try and address the problem from many different sides including developing new medications, devising new surgical techniques and identifying risk factors. Doctors James Elam, Peter Safar and Archer S. Gordon set to educating the world about rescue breathing, preventive measures and trying to discover a way to treat acute cardiac arrest.\n\nGordon initially did not support rescue breathing until he performed a study of his own using pediatric patients, reproducing Elam's results. Safar had also been working on the feasibility of rescue breathing, so they agreed that a concerted effort would be much more valuable than each working separately and possibly reproducing each other's work.\n\nPrior to the 1950s, the accepted method of resuscitation was the chest-pressure and arm-lift technique that was shown to be ineffective by Safar and Elam. In 1954, Elam was the first to demonstrate experimentally that exhaled air ventilation was a sound technique. Elam and Safar (and later Gordon) performed many experiments demonstrating the superiority of the rescue breathing technique. The problem then became one of popularizing the method.\n\nOrganizations such as the American Red Cross provide training at local chapters in the proper administration of artificial respiration procedures. The Red Cross has been teaching this technique since the mid-1950s. For example, in Kalamazoo, Michigan, volunteer Roger Mehalek introduced a breathing trainer called Miss Sweet Breath 1959, a plaster and plastic training mannequin he created.\n\nIn New York, then State Health Commissioner, Herman Hilliboe was impressed with the technique. He commissioned Elam to write the instructional booklet titled \"Rescue Breathing,\" which was distributed nationally in 1959. The success of the booklet spurred Elam to produce films demonstrating this new life-saving technique.\n\nBy 1960, rescue breathing had been adopted by the National Academy of Science, American Society of Anesthesiologists, Medical Society of the State of New York and the American Red Cross as the preferred method of resuscitation.\n\nSeveral key discoveries and understandings were required to treat the problem, which would take decades to work out, and even now is not 'solved'. Doctors speak of the natural history of diseases as a way to understand how therapy alters the usual progression of a disease. For example, the natural history of breast cancer may be measured in months but treated with surgery or chemotherapy the disease can be measured in years or even cured. Sudden cardiac arrest is a disease with an extremely rapid natural history, measured in minutes, with an inexorable outcome. But when treated with CPR the course of death can be extended (CPR will delay the dying process) and if treated with timely defibrillation death can be aborted.\n\nThe modern elements of resuscitation for sudden cardiac arrest are cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR in turn consists of mouth-to-mouth ventilation and chest compression), defibrillation and emergency medical services (the means to bring these techniques to the patient quickly).\n\nFor a long time before it was formalised, it had been known by doctors and midwives that mouth to mouth resuscitation could be useful in bringing a lifeless newborn around. In 1946, during the middle of a polio outbreak, an anesthesiologist, James Elam, applied this principle to an older child in an emergency situation. Elam described the event in his own words as \"I was browsing around to get acquainted with the ward when along the corridor came a gurney racing – a nurse pulling it and two orderlies pushing it, and the kid on it was blue. I went into total reflex behaviour. I stepped out in the middle of the corridor, stopped the gurney, grabbed the sheet, wiped the copious mucous off his mouth and face, … sealed my lips around his nose and inflated his lungs. In four breaths he was pink.\"\n\nOn the evening before this rediscovery, Elam read a chapter on the history of resuscitation in which mouth-to-mouth ventilation for newborns was described. He credits this chapter for his \"reflex behaviour.\" Elam’s passion led to his proselytizing about the merits of mouth-to-nose ventilation. He set out to prove that exhaled air was adequate to oxygenate non-breathing persons. In 1951, Elam was on staff in the Department of Anesthesiology at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis, Missouri. As he was about to start his research into CO homeostasis, a new department chair was appointed who wanted all research in anesthesiology to be performed using animals, not humans. Elam realized this would not be feasible and moved to Buffalo's Roswell Park Memorial Institute along with his top two collaborators, Elwyn S. Brown, M.D., and Raymond H. Ten Pas, M.D. He obtained permission from his chief of surgery to do studies on postoperative patients before the ether anaesthesia wore off. In this study, he demonstrated that expired air blown into the endotracheal tube maintained normal oxygen saturation.\n\nSeveral years later James Elam met Peter Safar, also an anesthesiologist, convincing him to join the effort to convince the world that expired air ventilation was effective. Safar set out on a series of experiments using paralysed individuals to show that the technique could maintain adequate oxygenation. Peter Safar describes the experiments:\n\n\"Thirty-one physicians and medical students, and one nurse volunteered . . . Consent was very informed. All volunteers had to observe me ventilate anaesthetised and curarized patients without a tracheal tube. I sedated the volunteers and paralysed them for several hours each. Blood O2 and CO were analysed. I demonstrated the method to over 100 lay persons who were then asked to perform the method on the curarized volunteers.\"\n\nThese experiments provided compelling data to switch from manual to mouth-to-mouth ventilation. The United States military accepted and endorsed the method in 1957 and the American Medical Association followed suit in 1958 The May 17, 1958 issue of JAMA contains the following endorsement:\n\"Skillful performance of expired air breathing is an easily learned, lifesaving procedure. It has revived many victims unresponsive to other methods and has been proved in real emergencies under field conditions. Information about expired air breathing should be disseminated as widely as possible\".\n\nUnlike cessation of respiration, an obvious sign of sudden death, the cessation of circulation, and particularly the rhythm of the heart, is not as easy to spot for a lay observer, although a trained eye now can see signs such as lack of perfusion. Perhaps as a result of this being less obvious, the appreciation of artificial circulation as a key factor in resuscitation lagged considerably behind the obvious need for artificial respirations.\n\nIf the scientists working on the problem appreciated the need to circulate blood, there was simply no effective means to do so. Even though closed chest massage was described in 1904, its benefit was not appreciated and anecdotal case reports did little to promote the benefit of closed chest massage. The prevailing belief was described in a physician’s quote from 1890, \"We are powerless against paralysis of the circulation.\"\n\nThe formalised system of chest compression was really an accidental discovery made in 1958 by William Bennett Kouwenhoven, Guy Knickerbocker, and James Jude at Johns Hopkins University. They were studying defibrillation in dogs when they noticed that by forcefully applying the paddles to the chest of the dog, they could achieve a pulse in the femoral artery. Further meticulous experimentation involving dogs answered such basic questions as how fast to press, where to press, and how deep to press. This information gave them the belief that they were ready for human trials.\n\nThe first person saved with this technique was recalled by Jude:\n\"She was rather an obese female who … went into cardiac arrest as a result of flurothane anesthetic. This woman had no blood pressure, no pulse, and ordinarily we would have opened up her chest. Instead, since we weren’t in the operating room, we applied external cardiac massage. Her blood pressure and pulse came back at once. We didn’t have to open her chest. They went ahead and did the operation on her, and she recovered completely.\"\n\nIn 1960 the three investigators reported their findings on 20 cases of in-hospital cardiac arrest in JAMA. Fourteen of the 20 patients (70%) survived and were discharged from the hospital. Many of the patients were in cardiac arrest as a result of anaesthesia. Three patients were documented to be in ventricular fibrillation. The duration of chest compression varied from less than 1 minute to 65 minutes. The JAMA article was very straightforward: chest compression buys time until the external defibrillator arrives on the scene. As the authors write in the article, \"Anyone, anywhere, can now initiate cardiac resuscitative procedures. All that is needed is two hands\". However, respiration received relatively little attention in the 1960 JAMA article. Many of the patients had been intubated and thus the need for mouth-to-mouth ventilation was not necessary. It was not long however, before this newly discovered technique was used in conjunction with the longer held techniques of artificial respiration.\n\nThe formal connection of chest compression with mouth-to-mouth ventilation to create CPR as it is practiced today occurred when Safar, Jude, and Kouwenhoven presented their findings at the annual Maryland Medical Society meeting on September 16, 1960 in Ocean City. In the opening remarks the moderator said, \"Our purpose today is to bring to you, then, this new idea.\" It was so new that it was still without a name. The moderator stated that the two techniques \"cannot be considered any longer as separate units, but as parts of a whole and complete approach to resuscitation\". In his remarks Safar stressed the importance of combining ventilation and circulation. He presented convincing data that chest compression alone did not provide effective ventilation; mouth-to-mouth respiration had to be part of the equation.\n\nTo promote CPR, Jude, Knickerbocker, and Safar began a world speaking tour. In 1962 Gordon, along with David Adams, produced a 27-minute training film called \"The Pulse of Life.\" The film was used in CPR classes and viewed by millions of students. For the film, Gordon and Adams devised the easy to remember mnemonic of A, B & C standing for the sequence of steps in CPR, airway, breathing, circulation. However the order has been revised to C, A, B, putting the emphasis on compressions first. The reason being that oxygen reserves in the body have been found to be adequate to maintain oxygenation of the blood.\n\nIn 1963 cardiologist Leonard Scherlis started the American Heart Association's CPR Committee, and in the same year, the Heart Association formally endorsed CPR. In May 1966 the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences convened an ad hoc conference on cardiopulmonary resuscitation. The conference was the direct result of requests from the American National Red Cross and other agencies to establish standardized training and performance standards for CPR. Over 30 national organizations were represented at the conference. Recommendations from this conference were reported in JAMA in 1966.\n\nAs early as the 1930s it was known that electric shocks, even small shocks, could induce ventricular fibrillation in dogs' hearts and more powerful shocks could reverse the fibrillation. This early research had been funded by the electric industry concerned about fatal accidents to linemen. Claude Beck, professor of surgery at Western Reserve University (later to become Case Western Reserve University) in Cleveland worked for years on a technique for defibrillation of the human heart. Beck believed that electricity could equally benefit the surgery patient whose heart fibrillated during surgery or induction of anaesthesia.\n\nBeck probably witnessed his first cardiac arrest during his internship in 1922 while on the surgery service at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. During a urologic operation, the anaesthetist announced that the patient's heart had stopped. To the amazement of Beck, the surgical resident removed his gloves and went to a telephone in a corner of the room and called the fire department. Beck remained in total bewilderment as the fire department rescue squad rushed into the operating room 15 minutes later and applied oxygen-powered respirators to the patient's face. The patient died, but the episode left an indelible impression on him. Beck would go on to develop techniques to take back the management of cardiac arrest from the fire department and place it in the hands of surgeons.\n\nBeck realized that ventricular fibrillation often occurred in hearts that were basically sound and he coined the phrase \"Hearts too good to die.\" In 1947, Beck accomplished his first successful resuscitation of a 14-year-old boy using open chest massage and internal defibrillation with alternating current. The boy was being operated on for a severe congenital funnel chest. In all other respects the boy was normal. During the closure of the large incision in the chest, the pulse suddenly stopped and the blood pressure fell to zero. The boy was in cardiac arrest. Dr. Beck immediately reopened the chest and began manual heart massage. As he looked at and felt the heart, he realized that ventricular fibrillation was present. Massage was continued for 35 minutes at which time an electrocardiogram was taken that confirmed the presence of ventricular fibrillation. Another 10 minutes passed before the defibrillator was brought to the operating room. The first shock using electrode paddles placed directly on the sides of the heart was unsuccessful. Beck administered procaine amide, a medicine to stabilize the heart’s rhythm. Beck gave a second shock that wiped out the fibrillation. In a very few seconds a feeble, regular, and fast contraction of the heart occurred. The blood pressure rose from zero to 50 millimeters of mercury. Beck noted that the heartbeat remained regular and saw that the pressure slowly began to rise. Twenty minutes after the successful defibrillation, the chest wound was closed. By three hours, the blood pressure rose to a normal level, and the child awoke and was able to answer questions. The boy made a full recovery, with no neurological damage.\n\nBeck pioneered internal defibrillation of the heart. In other words, the chest had to be open and the defibrillator paddles placed directly on the heart. It was ground breaking work but soon to be eclipsed by devices that could externally defibrillate the heart through the closed chest.\n\nFor Paul Zoll, well aware of Beck’s accomplishment, the development of an external defibrillator was a natural extension of his earlier work with an external cardiac pacemaker In 1955 a 67-year-old man survived several episodes of ventricular fibrillation, thanks to Zoll's external defibrillator, and went home from the hospital a month later. Over a period of four months, Zoll had successfully stopped ventricular fibrillation eleven times in four different patients. The energy required for defibrillation ranged from 240 to 720 joules. Zoll's findings were published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1956.\n\nThe defibrillator designed by Zoll, as well as earlier versions invented by Kouwenhoven and Beck, utilized alternating current and were run from line voltage, the electricity from any wall socket. The decision to use alternating current rather than direct current was a practical one. Direct current batteries and capacitor technology both powerful enough to do the job and portable enough for practical use simply didn't exist in the early 1950s. These AC defibrillators were very large and heavy, primarily because they contained a transformer to step up the line voltage from to 500 or . The only good feature is that they could be mounted on wheels and pushed down the hallway from one part of the hospital to another. Not many lives would be saved unless the inherent non-portability of AC defibrillators could be solved.\n\nThe portability problem was solved by Bernard Lown. Lown devised a defibrillator that utilized direct current instead of alternating current. A series of animal experiments on dogs in 1960 and 1961 and clinical uses in patients in the early 1960s established that DC shocks were extremely effective in shocking the heart. What's more, it was clear that DC was actually safer than AC when applied through the chest wall. With direct current it was possible to use power, supplied by a battery, to charge a capacitor over a few seconds. The capacitor stored the energy until it was released in one massive jolt to the chest wall. The availability of new, small capacitors considerably reduced the size and weight of the device. The defibrillator could now travel to the patient.\n\nThe National Highway Safety and Traffic Act of 1966 authorized the Department of Transportation to establish a national curriculum for prehospital personnel, which led to the training of emergency medical technicians (EMTs). EMTs did much to upgrade the general performance of ambulance services throughout the United States. Their 80-hour course and certification, which included CPR, ensured that proper care would be provided to victims of motor vehicle accidents and other emergencies. Thus they could provide artificial ventilation and closed-chest massage at the scene and en route to the hospital.\n\nHowever, EMTs were neither trained nor authorised to provide definitive care for cardiac arrest. They could not provide defibrillation; intravenous medications; or advanced airway control, such as endotracheal intubation. EMTs saved few, if any, victims of sudden cardiac arrest, largely because cardiac arrest occurred mostly in people's homes. The time required for EMTs to arrive and transport the patient to the closest emergency department was too long for resuscitation to be successful. Not even letter-perfect CPR can save a life if it takes too long for defibrillation and other advanced procedures to occur.\n\nIn 1965, Frank Pantridge turned his attention to this vexing problem of heart attacks and sudden cardiac death. His sensitivity to the problem came from two sources. First, personnel in the emergency department of the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast frequently commented on the number of patients coming in dead on arrival (DOA). Second, Pantridge had recently read a telling study in a medical journal that indicated that among middle-aged or younger men with acute myocardial infarction (MI), more than 60% died within 1 hour of the onset of symptoms. Thus the problem of death from acute MI had to be solved outside the hospital, not in the emergency room or the coronary care unit. \"The majority of deaths from coronary attacks were occurring\", he wrote, \"outside the hospital, and nothing whatever was being done about them. It became very clear to me that a coronary care unit confined to the hospital would have a minimal impact on mortality.\" He wanted his coronary-care unit in the community.\n\nPantridge's solution was to develop the world's first mobile coronary-care unit, or MCCU. He staffed it with an ambulance driver, a physician, and a nurse. Pantridge encountered numerous obstacles to the creation of the MCCU. He dealt with them in his typical direct fashion, with determination to succeed and transparent contempt for politicians and any authority figure who opposed him. Even his cardiology colleagues were skeptical. \"My noncardiological medical colleagues in the hospital were totally unconvinced and totally uncooperative,\" Pantridge said. \"It was considered unorthodox, if not illegal, to send junior hospital personnel, doctors, and nurses outside the hospital.\" Pantridge's new program began service on January 1, 1966.\n\nJohn Geddes was a resident in cardiology at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Belfast and worked on Pantridge's service. As junior member of the team it was Geddes' responsibility, which he shared with four other residents on the service, to ride on the newly christened ambulance when it was called into service.\n\nWhy did this breakthrough in cardiac care occur in Belfast, of all places? Geddes thought he knew the answer:\n\n\"I would say two reasons. One was Pantridge himself. He is a remarkable personality who is very persuasive. He can persuade people to do things, and . . . actually make them enjoy doing things that he has made them do because they are successful. So there was his tremendous enthusiasm behind the system. Then there was the fact that the layout of the [Royal Victoria] hospital was flat and it was quick and easy to get to people and resuscitate them. I didn't realize this at the time, but I subsequently visited hospitals in various parts of England. They had slow elevators and so on, and you could never move around the hospital quickly with any kind of emergency apparatus.\"\n\nThe success in the hospital wards made them believe success in the community would be possible. So it was the combination of a hospital's architectural layout and a physician's driving and persuasive personality that provided the impetus for this breakthrough. But one cannot discount the resuscitation infrastructure already in place: mouth-to-mouth ventilation, chest compression, and portable defibrillation. Without each of these three elements the Belfast program would have been a waste of time and effort.\n\nThe team reported the initial results of their program in the August 5, 1967 issue of The Lancet; their findings on 312 patients covered a 15-month period. Half the patients had MI and there were no deaths during transportation. Of ground-breaking importance was the information on 10 patients who had cardiac arrest. All had ventricular fibrillation; six arrests occurred after the arrival of the MCCU, and four occurred shortly before arrival of the ambulance. All 10 patients were resuscitated and admitted to the hospital. Five were subsequently discharged alive. The article has historical importance because it served to stimulate pre-hospital emergency cardiac care programs throughout the world.\n\nThe Belfast system was established to reach patients with acute myocardial infarction. The resuscitated patients were those whose hearts fibrillated after the ambulance was at the scene or en route. The system reacted too slowly to resuscitate persons who fibrillated before the call was placed. In 1966, it was assumed that most cardiac deaths in the community were the result of acute myocardial infarction. It was not appreciated that ventricular fibrillation can occur without myocardial infarction and have only seconds of warning – or none at all.\n\nThe extensive international readership of the Lancet helps explain why Pantridge's idea spread so rapidly to other countries. Within 2 years, similar physician staffed MCCU programs began in Australia and Europe. The first program in the United States was started in 1968 by William Grace out of St. Vincent's Hospital in Greenwich Village in New York City. The program was a clone of the Belfast program and utilized specially equipped ambulances with physicians on board to provide advanced resuscitation care directly at the scene of cardiac emergencies. Calls for medical emergencies in which chest pain was a complaint were passed on from the police 911 operator to the hospital. There an ambulance would fight New York traffic to arrive at the scene. Grace described the rather full ambulance and how it was sent:\n\n\"The personnel includes an attending physician, resident physician, emergency room nurse, ECG technician, as well as a student nurse observer, in addition to the driver and his assistant. This team is summoned from various points in the hospital to the emergency room by a personal paging system which each member of the team carries. This team has four and one half minutes to get to the emergency room, obtain their equipment and board the ambulance. Anyone who is not there within this time is left behind.\"\n\nIn a scientific report of the St. Vincent's program, Grace described the experience with the first 161 patients (ref). Only two instances occurred in which the physician did not make the 4½-minute deadline and the ambulance left without the physician. The ambulance reached the scene usually within 14 minutes, plus of course the 4½-minute pre-response time. One call took 25 minutes owing to heavy traffic. Among the first group of patients seen by the MCCU were three patients treated for ventricular fibrillation. One of the three survived.\n\nGrace took this concept, imported from overseas, and made it work in his community. Physicians with defibrillators rushing through the city to reach a non-breathing, unconscious person whose heart had stopped were quite unusual by 1968 standards. However, the program was limited in vision, and although it could work in some communities, it was not nationally applicable. An evolution in prehospital emergency care was needed.\n\nThe evolution from physician-staffed mobile intensive care units to paramedic-staffed units in the United States occurred independently and almost simultaneously in several communities. Two communities that led the way were Miami and Seattle, but others included Portland, Oregon, Los Angeles, and Columbus, Ohio. These communities were a major evolutional advance compared to the Belfast or New York City programs. Not only were paramedics used instead of physicians, but from their inception the programs were established to deal with the problem of sudden cardiac arrest. Pantridge's program was established primarily to reach the victim of MI fast and thereby prevent mortality in the vulnerable early stage of this event. Thus cardiac arrest was successfully treated only if it occurred as a complication of MI and only if the ambulance was already at the scene or en route. The new paramedic programs were far more nimble than physician-based programs and were specifically designed not only to treat the early stages of MI, but also to attempt resuscitation for sudden cardiac arrest wherever and whenever it occurred. Reversal of death itself would be a major purpose and goal of the new paramedic programs.\n\nEugene Nagel became aware of Pantridge's work in 1967. He believed that the physician-staffed model of prehospital care was not going to work for the United States in general or for Miami in particular. Physicians were too expensive to sit around fire stations waiting for calls, and if they had to be picked up in hospitals, it would take too long to arrive at the scene. When Nagel or his colleague James Hirschman, rode on the ambulance themselves they could, of course, defibrillate and provide medications, but they could not be present on all shifts. Nagel became convinced it was time to move away from a program using physicians to one staffed by paramedics.\n\nNagel moved incrementally. He did not think he could initially sell the idea of paramedics working alone, even if they had authorization to perform medical procedures signed by physicians. So instead his first step was to establish a radio link and telemetry between the paramedic fire fighters and the hospital. Nagel's had a hidden agenda in promoting telemetry. For Nagel it gained him access through the legal impediments stopping fire fighters from defibrillating patients and administering medications. Nagel reasoned that if the fire department could send the ECG signal to the hospital via telemetry, then the fire fighters (with special training) could be authorized by the physician to administer needed drugs and procedures before arriving in the emergency department. He believed a paramedic at the scene was a legal extension of a physician. He recalled later, \"We saw telemetry as the key to extending our treatment to outside the hospital where hitherto trying to legislate it was the dark side of the moon in those days. The telemetry looked like it might be the 'open sesame' to doing some treatment pre-hospital.\"\n\nNagel hoped to find support from the medical community; instead he only encountered discouragement. Nagel recalled this opposition, \"It was a rare doctor that favored us doing any of this stuff – very rare. We had incidents in the street when we were just sending an ECG, where doctors on the scene would tell the firemen to quit fooling around and haul the victim in.\"\n\nNagel recalled the first save of the Miami paramedic program. The collapse occurred near Station 1, on the fringe of downtown Miami. He reminisced:\n\n\"There was a guy named Dan Jones who was then about 60 years old, who was a wino who lived in a fleabag in the bad part of town. Jones was well known to rescue. In June of '69 they got a call – man down – it was Jones. They put the paddles on him, he was in VF, started CPR, zapped him, he came back to sinus rhythm, brought him into ER and three days later he was out and walking around. In gratitude, about a week later, he came down to Station 1, which he had never done before, and he said he would like to talk to the man who saved his life. They told me they had never seen Dan Jones in a clean shirt and sober, both of which he was that day. He would periodically come to the fire house and just say hello and he seemed to be sober. In my talks in those days I said this was the new cure for alcoholism. That was our first true save.\"\n\nPantridge's article also energized Leonard Cobb in Seattle. He knew the Seattle Fire Department was already involved in first aid and therefore approached the Fire Chief, Gordon Vickery, to propose a new training program to treat cardiac arrest. The fire department already had one of the United States' first computerized systems for documenting first aid runs. Cobb realized that this system could provide scientific documentation for the efficacy (or lack thereof) of Pantridge's suggestions and suggested to Vickery that they pool their knowledge and resources. Cobb and his colleagues then provided instruction and training in cardiac emergencies including cardiac arrest to volunteer fire fighters. The program became operational in March 1970, nine months after Nagel's first save in Miami. The mobile unit was stationed outside the Harborview Hospital emergency department. As Cobb himself points out, the mobile unit was not the real innovation. Rather, it was the concept of a tiered response to medical emergencies. The idea was \"that we would get someone out there quickly\" – via the fire department's already existing mobile first aid units – \"and then a secondary response would come from the mobile intensive coronary care unit.\" The beauty of the tiered response system was the efficient use of fire department personnel, which allowed aid personnel to reach the scene quickly (on an average of three minutes) to start CPR. Then a few minutes later the paramedics arrived to provide more definitive care such as defibrillation. In this way the brain could be kept alive until the electric shock converted the heart to a normal rhythm. After stabilization the paramedics would transport the patient to the hospital.\n\nThe Seattle paramedic program did more than pioneer paramedics and promote the tiered response system. It was the first program in the world to make citizens part of the emergency system. Cobb knew from data the program had collected that the sooner CPR was started, the better the chances of survival. He reasoned that the best way to ensure early initiation of CPR was to train the bystanders. Thus Cobb, with the support of Vickery, began a program in 1972 called Medic 2. Its goal was to train over 100,000 people in Seattle how to do CPR. Cobb recalled how the idea was first proposed:\n\nOne day Vickery said, \"Look, if it's so important to get CPR started quickly and if firemen come around to do it, it can't be that complicated that other folks couldn't also learn – firemen are not created by God to do CPR. You could train the public.\" Cobb said, \"That sounds like a very good idea.\"\n\nCobb decided to use an abbreviated course of training. \"We weren't going to do it by traditional ways where they had to come for 20 hours (of training). So they had to do it at one sitting – how long will people participate? – well, maybe three hours and that's pretty much the way it was.\" Cobb cautiously did not state how long it would take to train 100,000 people. He had no idea. In fact it took only a few years and by the 20th anniversary of the citizen training program over half a million people in Seattle and the surrounding suburbs had received training in CPR.\n\nSome people were sceptical about mass citizen training in CPR; indeed, many felt the potential for harm was too great to allow such a procedure in the hands of laypersons. The skeptics also had the support of national medical organizations. The alarmist voices were stilled by some fortunate saves. Cobb recalled one resuscitation soon after the citizen training program began. \"In March 1973 there were these kids playing golf at Jackson Park. They came across a victim a quarter of a mile from the clubhouse.\" The man was unconscious and not breathing; later it was confirmed that he was in ventricular fibrillation. \"But these kids had taken the [CPR] course over at the local high school. Two or three of them started doing CPR and the other kid ran off and phoned the fire department. Shortly they came with the aid car and Medic 1 screaming over the fairways.\" Cobb concluded, \"They got him started up again. He survived; he's alive today [1990]. That was a very convincing story. I didn't mind it being written up in the Reader's Digest.\"\n\nBy the early 1970s CPR, defibrillation, and a rapid means to provide prehospital care were all in place. The structure to resuscitate sudden death victims had been built and was proving successful. That most of the world did not have this structure in place in the 1970s was largely due to lack of diffusion and spread of the ideas, rather than the impossibility of carrying them out.\n\nHowever, the story of resuscitation does not stop in the early 1970s. Major advances have continued. In 1980 the first program to train EMTs to perform defibrillation began in King County, Washington, and similar programs spread throughout the United States. This training required 10 hours, and in the first demonstration project, survival from ventricular fibrillation increased from 7% to 26%. In 1984 the first program with fire fighter EMTs using automated external defibrillators (AEDs) also began in King County, Washington. The use of AEDs simplified the training of EMTs and thus allowed the procedure to spread more rapidly throughout communities. Automated external defibrillators require considerably less training time compared to manual defibrillators since the EMT does not have to interpret the cardiac rhythm.\n\nThe idea for an automated defibrillator was first conceived by Dr. Arch Diack, a surgeon in Portland, Oregon. His prototype, literally assembled in a basement, utilized a unique defibrillatory pathway – tongue to chest. There was a breath detector that was a safeguard to prevent shocking breathing persons. The electrode was essentially a rate counter, far cruder than today’s sophisticated VF detectors. The production model weighed 35 pounds and gave verbal instructions. It was an idea ahead of its time. Most people viewed it as a curiosity. By the late 1980s, however, other manufacturers entered the field leading to the automated external defibrillators (AEDs) we have today. Current AEDs, like regular defibrillators, use electrode pads attached to the chest. AEDs are programmed to guide the operator (with a series of voice prompts) through the procedure. The pads once attached automatically detect the type of heart rhythm and if VF is present the AED instructs the operator to press a button (usually flashing red) to shock the patient. From EMT defibrillation with AEDs, there was a natural and logical progression to first responder defibrillation (AEDs used by police or security personnel), next widespread Public Access Defibrillation (AEDs used by lay persons in public locations such as airports, schools, exercise facilities, etc.) and finally home AED including the opportunity to purchase AEDs over the counter without a prescription.\n\nIn 1981 a program to provide telephone instructions in CPR began in King County, Washington. This program used the emergency dispatchers to give instant directions while the fire department EMT personnel were en route to the scene. This demonstration project increased the rate of bystander-provided CPR by 50%. Dispatcher-assisted CPR is now standard care for dispatcher centers throughout the United States and in other countries such as Israel, Great Britain, Sweden, and Norway.\n\nThe American Heart Association uses a metaphor of four links in a chain to describe the elements of successful resuscitation. These links are early access (recognizing cardiac arrest and calling 911), early CPR, early defibrillation, and early advanced care (such as medications, endotracheal intubation) The early paramedic programs were all designed to provide CPR, defibrillation, and advanced care quickly enough to resuscitate patients in cardiac arrest.\n\nCPR has continued to advance, with recent developments including an emphasis on constant, rapid heart stimulation, without respiration. Studies have shown that people who had rapid, constant hands-only chest compression 22% more likely to survive than those receiving conventional, CPR that included breathing. What's more, because people tend to be reluctant to do mouth-to-mouth, chest-only CPR nearly doubles the chances of survival overall, by increasing the odds of receiving CPR in the first place.\n\nQuotes from James Jude, Leonard Cobb, Eugene Nagel, Frank Pantridge, and John Geddes are from: Eisenberg MS, Life in the Balance: Emergency Medicine and the Quest to Reverse Sudden Death, Oxford University Press, 1997, New York, with permission of author.\n"}
{"id": "8239903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8239903", "title": "History of the Jews in Lebanon", "text": "History of the Jews in Lebanon\n\nThe history of the Jews in Lebanon encompasses the presence of Jews in present-day Lebanon stretching back to Biblical times. Following large-scale emigration following the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, and much more importantly the Lebanese Civil War, the vast majority of Lebanese Jews now live in Western countries and many live in Israel. As the latest census in Lebanon was conducted in 1932, there are virtually no statistics available. The discrepancy between the number of registered Lebanese Jews and number often cited by locals and the Lebanese Jewish Community Council might be caused by the Lebanese registration policy relative to religion: a newborn's religion is that of his father, and this also applies to Jewish nationals despite Jewish customs. \n\nThe Lebanese Jews are a Sephardi (particularly Mizrahi) community living mostly in and around Beirut. Their number at present is estimated around 40. \nThe community has been described as elderly and apprehensive. There are no services at Beirut's synagogues.\n\nAn estimated 6,000 Lebanese Jews emigrated in the wake of the 1967 Arab–Israeli War, shrinking the community down to 450 by 1975. The Lebanese Civil War and 1982 war with Israel further reduced the number of Jews in the country. Almost all of the emigration was to countries with well established Lebanese or Lebanese Jewish diaspora, such as France, Brazil, Switzerland, Canada and the United States.\n\nIn pre-Biblical times, the region between Gaza and Anatolia (essentially modern day Lebanon, Israel, Palestinian Territories, Jordan and Syria) was a single cultural unit. Despite the lack of any central political authority, the region shared a common language family (Northwest Semitic languages, including Phoenician, Ancient Hebrew and Aramaic), religion and way of life. This included some of the world's first permanent settlements arranged around early agricultural communities and independent city states, many of which maintained a wide network of trade relations throughout the Mediterranean and beyond.\n\nBy the time of the Israelite Kingdoms, Lebanon and Israel (including present-day Jordan) could be recognized as distinct entities, although they remained close allies, experiencing the same fates with changing regional developments. During this period, parts of modern Lebanon were under the control of Jerusalem, and Jews lived as far north as Baal-Hermon on the slopes of Mount Hermon (sometimes identified with Hasbaya, which once again became an important center of Jewish life in the first half of the 20th century).\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, the territory of the Israelite tribes of Asher and Naphtali extended into present-day Lebanon as far as Sidon in the north. These tribes formed part of the united Kingdom of Israel and then the northern kingdom of the same name. However, Assyria captured Naphtali in c. 732 BCE and deported its population, a fate which befell the rest of the northern kingdom in c. 723 BCE. The New Testament also refers to Jesus's sojourn around Mount Hermon which appears to take for granted Jewish presence in this locality. Some people also add the locality of Qana (near Tyre in Lebanon) but the Bible clearly avoids confusion by referring to it as \"Qana of Galilee\".\n\nFollowing the Bar Kokhba Revolt against Rome in 132 CE, several Jewish communities were established in Lebanon. Caliph Muawiya (642–680) established a Jewish community in Tripoli, Lebanon. Another was founded in 922 in Sidon. The Jewish Academy was established in Tyre in 1071. In the 19th century, hostility between the Druze and Maronites communities led many Jews to leave Deir al Qamar, with most moving to Hasbaya by the end of the century.\n\nIn 1911, Jews from Italy, Greece, Syria, Iraq, Turkey, Egypt and Iran moved to Beirut, expanding the community there with more than 5,000 additional members. Articles 9 and 10 of the 1926 Constitution of Lebanon guaranteed the freedom of religion and provided each religious community, including the Jewish community, the right to manage its own civil matters, including education, and thus the Jewish community was constitutionally protected, a fact that did not apply to other Jewish communities in the region. The Jewish community prospered under the French mandate and Greater Lebanon, exerting considerable influence throughout Lebanon and beyond. They allied themselves with Pierre Gemayel's Phalangist Party (a right wing, Maronite group modelled after similar movements in Italy and Germany, and Franco's Phalangist movement in Spain.) and played an instrumental role in the establishment of Lebanon as an independent state.\n\nDuring the Greater Lebanon period, two Jewish newspapers were founded, the Arabic language \"Al-Alam al-Israili\" (the Israelite World) and the French \"Le Commerce du Levant\", an economic periodical which still publishes (though it is now owned by non-Jews).\n\nThe Jewish community of Beirut evolved in three distinct phases. Until 1908, the Jewish population in Beirut grew by migration from the Syrian interior and from other Ottoman cities like Izmir, Salonica, Istanbul, and Baghdad. Commercial growth in the thriving port-city, consular protection, and relative safety and stability in Beirut all accounted for the Jewish migration. Thus, from a few hundred at the beginning of the 19th century, the Jewish community grew to 2,500 by the end of the century, and to 3,500 by the First World War. While the number of Jews grew considerably, the community remained largely unorganized. During this period, the community lacked some of the fundamental institutions such as communal statutes, elected council, welfare and taxation mechanisms. In this period, the most organized and well-known Jewish institution in the city was probably the private \"Tiferet Israel\" (The Glory of Israel) boarding-school founded by Zaki Cohen in 1874. The school attracted Jewish students from prosperous families like Shloush (Jaffa), Moyal (Jaffa), and Sassoon (Baghdad). Its founder, influenced by the Ottoman reforms and by local cultural trends, aspired to create a modern yet Jewish school. It offered both secular and strictly Jewish subjects as well as seven languages. It also offered commercial subjects. The school was closed at the beginning of the 20th century due to financial hardships.\n\nThe Young Turk Revolution (1908) sparked the organization process. Within six years, the Beirut community created a general assembly, an elected twelve-member council, drafted communal statutes, appointed a chief rabbi, and appointed committees to administer taxation and education. The process involved tension and even conflicts within the community, but eventually, the community council established its rule and authority in the community. The chief rabbi received his salary from the community and was \"de facto\" under the council's authority.\n\nWith the establishment of Greater Lebanon (1920), the Jewish community of Beirut became part of a new political entity. The French mandate rulers adopted local political traditions of power-sharing and recognized the autonomy of the various religious communities. Thus, the Jewish community was one of Lebanon's sixteen communities and enjoyed a large measure of autonomy, more or less along the lines of the Ottoman \"millet\" system. During the third phase of its development, the community founded two major institutions: the Maghen Abraham Synagogue (1926), and the renewed Talmud-Torah Selim Tarrab community school (1927). The community also maintained welfare services like the Biqur-Holim, Ozer-Dalim, and Mattan-Basseter societies. The funding for all these institutions came from contributions of able community members, who contributed on Jewish holidays and celebrations, through subscription of prominent members, fund-raising events and lotteries the community organized. In fact, the community was financially independent and did not rely on European Jewish philanthropy.\n\nThe development of the Jewish yishuv in Palestine influenced the Jewish leadership, who usually showed sympathy and active support for Zionism. The Jewish leadership in Beirut during this time aligned itself ideologically with the American-Based B'nai B'rith organization through its local proxy (Arzei Ha-Levanon Lodge) which was staffed by local community leaders. The B'nai B'rith lodge in Beirut attracted the social and economic elite. It embarked on community progress and revival through social activism, Jewish solidarity, and philanthropic values. Unlike the Alliance, who mainly aspired to empower the Jewish individual through modern education, the B'nai B'rith strove to empower both the individual and the community as a whole. In Beirut, unlike other Jewish communities, most of the community council members were also B'nai B'rith members, hence there existed an overlap between the council and the lodge. Of course, the Alliance school was popular in the community as it focused on French and prepared students for higher education. Since there was no Jewish high school in Beirut, many Jewish students attended foreign (Christian) schools, either secular or religious. The Jewish community was one of the smaller communities in the country, and hence it was not entitled for a guaranteed representation in the Parliament. Being excluded from Lebanese political life, the Jewish leadership aspired to improve the community's public standing by consolidating and improving the community as a whole. Overall, the French mandate period was characterized by growth, development, and stability.\n\nIn the 20th century, the Jewish community in Lebanon showed little involvement or interest in politics. They were generally traditional as opposed to religious and were not involved in the feuds of the larger religious groups in the country. Broadly speaking, they tended to support Lebanese nationalism and felt an affinity toward France. French authorities at the time discouraged expressions of Zionism (which they saw as a tool of their British rival), and the community was mostly apathetic to it. A few community leaders, such as Joseph Farhi, fervently supported the Zionist cause, and there was a level of support for the concept of a Jewish state in Palestine. The Jews in Lebanon had good contacts with those in Palestine, and there were regular visits between Beirut and Jerusalem. Accounts by the Alliance Israélite Universelle, which established schools that most Jewish children in the country attended, spoke of active Zionism while the Jewish Agency lamented the lack of national sentiment. The World Zionist Organization was also disappointed with the lack of more active support, and the community did not send a delegation to the World Zionist Congress.\nA young Lebanese Jew named Joseph Azar, who took it upon himself to advance the Zionist cause with other individuals in October 1930, said in a report for the Jewish Agency that: \"Before the disturbance of August 1929 the Jews...of Lebanon manifested much sympathy for the Zionist cause and worked actively for the sake of Palestine. They had established associations which collected money for (sic) Keren Kayemeth and (sic) Keren Heyesod.\" He said that after 1929, the Jews \"started to fear from (sic) anything having any connection with Zionism and ceased to hold meetings and collect money.\" He also said that the Jewish Communal Council in Beirut \"endeavored to prevent anything having a Jewish national aspect because they feared that this might wound the feelings of the Muslims.\" Other sources suggested that such charity work was not so much motivated by Zionism as it was by an interest to help Jews in need.\nThe Maccabi organization was recognized officially by Lebanese authorities and was an active center for Jewish cultural affairs in Beirut and Saida. The Maccabi taught Hebrew language and Jewish history, and was the focus point of the small Zionist movement in the country. There was also a pro-Zionist element within the Maronite community in Lebanon.\nAfter the 1929 riots in Jerusalem, the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem was expelled from Palestine and he chose to settle in Lebanon, where continued to mobilize resistance against Zionist claims to Palestine. During the riots, some Muslim nationalists and editors of a major Greek-Orthodox newspaper (both of whom saw the fate of the emerging Lebanese state as one within a broader Arab context) sought to incite the disturbances in Lebanon, where until that point most ethno-religious groups were aloof to the forecoming conflict in Palestine. It also seemed to have an effect on the cryptic response given by Interior Minister Habib Abi Chahla to Joseph Farhi when, on behalf of the Jewish community, he requested that they receive a seat in the newly expanded Lebanese Parliament.\n\nOutside of Beirut, the attitudes toward Jews were usually more hostile. In November 1945, fourteen Jews were killed in anti-Jewish riots in Tripoli. Further anti-Jewish events occurred in 1948 following the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. The ongoing insecurity combined with the greater opportunities that Beirut offered prompted most of the remaining Jews of Tripoli to relocate to Beirut.\n\nAnti-Zionist demonstrations began in 1947 and 1948 but initially showed no malice to the Jewish community. As the Arab–Israeli conflict continued, hostility toward the Jews intensified, especially from the Muslim population. The main synagogue in Beirut was bombed in the early 1950s, and the Lebanese Chamber of Deputies witnessed heated debates on the status of Lebanese Jewish army officers. The discussions culminated in a unanimous resolution to expel and exclude them from the Lebanese Army. The two Jewish army officers were discharged, but a few Jews continued to work for the government. The Jewish population of Beirut, which stood at 9,000 in 1948, dwindled to 2,500 by 1969.\n\nIn 2010, work began to restore an old synagogue in Beirut, the Maghen Abraham Synagogue. The synagogue had fallen into disrepair after being bombed by Israel several years earlier. The roof had collapsed and trees and bushes had grown under it. Although Solidere agreed to provide funds for the renovation because political officials believed it would portray Lebanon as an open society tolerant of Judaism, none of the Jews involved in the project agreed to be identified, nor were the non-Jewish construction workers willing to show their faces or be photographed. The international media and even some members of the Jewish community (in and out of Lebanon) questioned who would pray there. The self-declared head of the Jewish Community Council, Isaac Arazi, who left Lebanon in 1983, eventually came forward but refused to show his face on camera in a television interview, fearing that his business would suffer if clients knew they had been dealing with a Jew.\n\nPhilanthropist and civic leader Jack Benaroya and Major League Baseball player John Grabow are of Lebanese-Jewish descent.\n\nThe Jewish Community Presidents include:\n\n\nBetween the years of 1799 and 1978, a series of Chief Rabbis led the Lebanese Jewish community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15547986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15547986", "title": "Immigration to Malaysia", "text": "Immigration to Malaysia\n\nImmigration to Malaysia is the process by which people migrate to Malaysia to reside in the country. The majority of these individuals become Malaysian citizens. After 1957, domestic immigration law and policy went through major changes, most notably with the Immigration Act 1959/63. Malaysian immigration policies are still evolving. \n\nIn Malaysia there are four categories of immigrants: family class (closely related persons of Malaysian residents living in Malaysia), economic immigrants (skilled workers and business people), other (people accepted as immigrants for humanitarian or compassionate reasons) and refugees (people who are escaping persecution, torture or cruel and unusual punishment).\n\nCurrently, Malaysia is known as a country with a broad immigration policy which is reflected in Malaysia's ethnic diversity. According to the 2010 census by Department of Statistics Malaysia, Malaysia has more than 50 ethnic groups with at least 40% of current Malaysians are first- or second-generation immigrant, and ~30% of Malaysian residents in late 2010s are not born in Malaysian soil.\n\nFor most of human history people were free to move between regions. \nMalaysia's first generation of migrants consisted of indigenous peoples, the \"Orang Asli\", believed either to have been among the first wave of human migration from Africa around 50,000 years ago, or to belong to the more recent events of Asian human evolution.\n\nThe Malay Peninsula enjoyed a position of strategic importance, connecting Indochina and the Indonesian archipelago, on the trade routes from China to India. As a result, it grew from port towns that thrived on trade, and hosted the next groups of migrants as merchants became domiciled in the ports, some settling permanently and assimilating into the local communities. By the 5th century, networks of these towns had evolved into organised political spheres of influence that contemporary historians describe as mandalas, as each was defined by its centre rather than its borders. At \nthe periphery, control is less certain, borders may become permeable, In fact, mandalas sometimes overlapped, where areas could be subject to several powers, or none.\n\nLangkasuka was among the earliest kingdoms founded on the Malay Peninsula, believed to have been founded in the 2nd century. By the 8th century it had come under the control of the powerful Srivijaya empire, that was based on the island of Sumatra (now part of Indonesia). In the 15th century, the centre of power shifted from Sumatra to the Malay Peninsula as the Malacca Sultanate succeeded Srivijaya as the region's dominant influence. In addition to being linked by political rule, Sumatra and the Malay Peninsula were also linked by intermarriage between Sumatran and Peninsular ruling elite, which led to migration of their followers.\n\nOther significant early migrants are those now classified as \"Melayu Anak Dagang\": non-Malays that migrated to the region and later assimilated into Malay culture (contrasted with \"Melayu Anak Jati\": ethnic Malays that are native to the region):\n\n\nBased on Malaysia's long history as a society of migrants, researchers at University Sains Malaysia assert:\n\nResearcher Anthony Reid draws another conclusion from this history - that Malaysia, like the US and Australia, is best viewed as an immigrant society:\n\nThe next wave of migration, by Europeans, was particularly significant as it signaled the beginning of the colonial era. The Portuguese arrived first, setting up in Malacca in 1511, while the English East India Company began operation in 1600, and the Dutch East India Company in 1602. As these Europeans settled in this region, they also married locals and other non-Europeans. The inter-racial marriages account for a new set of people in Malaysia, called the Eurasians. Adding these new groups to the Arab, Chinese, Indian, and Southeast Asian traders who settled, resulted in the urban complexes of Malacca and Penang becoming extraordinarily plural places, with no dominant community up to the mid-19th Century. \n\nAlthough the colonial powers established ‘political’ boundaries to demarcate their respective territories, borders were kept open, mainly because of sparse population, and also to encourage immigration and the development of colonial territories.\n\nAfter the Dutch moved to Indonesia, and with the British acquisitions of Penang (1786), Singapore (1819), Malacca (1824), and British influence in Sarawak (1841) and Sabah (1882), the British became the dominant investor in the region that would become Malaysia.\n\nBritish colonial immigration policy and goals can be divided into three phases. \n\nDuring the first phase, 1900-27, the country witnessed the expansion of the tin and rubber industries, along with construction of supporting infrastructure, and the entry of thousands of migrant workers to labor in these enterprises. The immigration rate (immigrants per 1,000 population) of Malaya (Peninsula Malaysia and Singapore) was the highest in the world throughout the period 1881-1939, more than ten times the rate of the United States. For Chinese, Indian and Indonesian, entry was completely free and unrestricted.\n\nWhile Chinese, Indian, and Javanese migrants were often fleeing destitution caused by overpopulation, landlessness, or political turmoil, the indigenous people and Malays generally were not subject to these hardships. Thus, they were not receptive to working as wage labourers for the British colonizers. This meant the colonizers could not meet their aggressive goals of resource exploitation with existing stock of labour, leading them to invite/attract more migrant workers.\nUnder the British colonial administration a divide and rule policy kept the immigrant workers apart from each other, and from the indigenous population, with the local Malays and the Indonesians confined to the rural areas as peasant farmers, the Indians mainly employed as wage labour in the plantations and in the infrastructure construction sectors, while the Chinese worked in the tin mines and in trade and commerce in the urban areas. This pattern of economic and geographical segregation continued to linger on in post-colonial Malaysia, as a legacy of colonial rule.\n\nThe second phase, during 1928-46, began when the colonial government enacted its first piece of restrictive legislation: the \"Immigration Restriction Ordinance\". This legislation enabled the government to establish a basic framework for border controls, and empowered it with the means to control the entry of labor deemed surplus to the requirements of the country. The Great Depression brought rising unemployment and depressed economic conditions, forcing the closure of some mines and rubber estates. This prompted the government to impose a monthly quota on adult Chinese male immigration from August 1930. In January 1933 the \"Immigration Restriction Ordinance\" was replaced by the \"Aliens Ordinance\". The \"Aliens Ordinance\" provided the colonial state with a mechanism for registering aliens resident in Malaya and represented an important stage in the development of statutes and measures to monitor immigrants in Malaya. \n\nDuring the third phase, 1947-57, the \"Aliens Ordinance\" was replaced by the \"Immigration Ordinance of 1953\". This Ordinance, coinciding with rising Malay nationalist sentiment, resulted in even more stringent border controls and laid down for the first time the specific composition of migrants allowed entry into Malaya, restricting by nationality and occupation, and thus placed greater emphasis on the skills of the migrants. New stipulations required potential immigrants to have job contracts of at least two years with Malayan firms and set a minimum earnings requirement.\n\nFinally, the Malayan Emergency (1948-60) resulted in the introduction of the Internal Security Act (ISA), and a compulsory system of identification cards for all residents aged twelve years and over. The identity cards categorized people on the basis of their nationality and residential/occupational status and, in effect, created the ‘outsider’. This an enduring legacy of colonial rule, adapted to the needs of the national state.\n\nImmigrants from these countries account for 38.8% - 39.8% of Malaysian population.\n\nThis list includes both pre and post independence immigrants.\n\n"}
{"id": "23722378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23722378", "title": "Jur Beli people", "text": "Jur Beli people\n\nThe Jur Beli (also, Jurbiel and Beli) are an ethnic group living in South Sudan. \n"}
{"id": "26686916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26686916", "title": "Kickapoo whistled speech", "text": "Kickapoo whistled speech\n\nWhistled speech among Kickapoo Native Americans in Mexico is a means of communication among Kickapoo Traditional Tribe of Texas, a Kickapoo tribe in Texas and Mexico. Whistled speech is a system of whistled communication that allows subjects to transmit and exchange a potentially unlimited set of messages over long distances.\n\nWhistled language occurs among the Kickapoo Indian tribe living in the Mexican state of Coahuila. Kickapoo whistle speech is a substitute for spoken Kickapoo in which the pitch and length of vowels and vowel clusters are represented while vowel qualities and consonants are not.\n\nThe system of whistling was employed around 1915 by young members of the Kickapoo tribe. These individuals wanted to be able to communicate without their parents’ understanding.\n\nIn order to produce whistle speech, the Kickapoo Indians cup their hands together to form a chamber. Next, they blow into the chamber with their lips placed against the knuckles of their thumbs. In order to alter the pitch of their whistle, the Kickapoo Indians lift their fingers from the back of the chamber.\n\nAmong the Kickapoo Indian tribe in Coahuila, Mexico, whistled speech is employed primarily for courtship purposes. Young men and women rendezvous using whistle speech each evening as a cultural tradition. The whistling can be heard from dusk to as late as midnight every evening. Messages mostly consist of phrases such as \"I'm thinking of you\" and \"Come on.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9402510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9402510", "title": "Kodaku people", "text": "Kodaku people\n\nKodaku people are an indigenous people who live in India. They live in the hills and forest of Chhotanagpur, the bordering area of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Their mother tongue, a Munda language, is also called Kodaku. Some Kodaku people speak Korwa as their mother tongue. They also speak Sadri, Chhattisgarhi, or Kurukh as their second language.\nThe Kodaku people are mainly concentrated in the northeastern area of Surguja district in Chhattishgarh, southern parts of Palamau,Gadhwa in Jharkhand and the southeastern region of Sonabhadra district of Uttar Pradesh.\nKodaku people are now included in Scheduled Tribes by government of India. (along with Abij Maria and Korba community)\n"}
{"id": "2485711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2485711", "title": "List of paramilitary groups", "text": "List of paramilitary groups\n\nThe list of paramilitary groups includes all organized armed groups not officially considered a national military force. Groups are listed alphabetically, with the common name as the primary entry. Multiple entries for multiple names for a group are fine, for the purpose of redirects and easier research.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSet up to counter the Ulster Volunteers but was shut down after the Easter Rising and formed the I.R.A. (1917–22)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58906643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58906643", "title": "List of sovereign states by financial assets", "text": "List of sovereign states by financial assets\n\nThis is a list of countries by global financial assets, the total privately owned assets by residents payable in currency, stocks, and bonds. This table is based upon the \"Allianz Global Wealth Report 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "413659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=413659", "title": "List of the 100 largest municipalities in Canada by population", "text": "List of the 100 largest municipalities in Canada by population\n\nThe table below lists the 100 largest census subdivisions (municipalities or municipal equivalents) in Canada by population, using data from the Canada 2016 census for census subdivisions.\n\nThis list includes only the population within a census subdivision's boundaries as defined at the time of the census. Many census subdivisions are part of a larger census metropolitan area or census agglomeration. For their ranking, see the list of census metropolitan areas and agglomerations in Canada.\n\nA city is displayed in bold if it is a provincial or federal capital, and in \"italics\" if it is the most populous city in the province. Three territories and one province—Yukon, Northwest Territories, Nunavut and Prince Edward Island—do not have cities with populations of 50,500 or more.\n\nThe following is a list of the 15 census subdivisions in Canada with a population of 5,000 or greater that experienced the highest percentage of population growth between the 2011 and 2016 censuses as published by Statistics Canada.\n\nThe following is a list of the 15 census subdivisions in Canada with a population of 5,000 or greater that experienced the largest percentage of population decreases between the 2006 and 2011 censuses as published by Statistics Canada.\n"}
{"id": "303295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303295", "title": "Moravians", "text": "Moravians\n\nMoravians (\"Czech: Moravané\" or colloquially \"Moraváci\", outdated \"Moravci\") are a West Slavic ethnographic group from the Moravia region of the Czech Republic, who speak the Moravian dialects of the Czech language or Common Czech or a mixed form of both. Along with the Silesians of the Czech Republic, a part of the population to identify ethnically as Moravian has registered in Czech censa since 1991. The figure has fluctuated and in the 2011 census, 4.9% of the Czech population declared Moravian as their nationality. Smaller pockets of persons declaring Moravian ethnicity are also native to neighboring Slovakia. \n\nA certain ambiguity in the Czech language derives from the fact that it only distinguishes between \"Čechy\" (Bohemia) and \"Česká republika\" (Czech republic), but the corresponding adjective \"český\" and noun designating an inhabitant and/or a member of a nation \"Čech\" can be related to either of the two (the adjective \"bohémský\" and the noun \"bohém\" have only the \"socially unconventional person\" meaning).\n\nThe Moravians (Old Slavic self-designation \"Moravljane\", Slovak: \"Moravania\", Czech: \"Moravané\") were a West Slavic tribe in the Early Middle Ages. Although it is not known exactly when the Moravian tribe was founded, Czech historian Dušan Třeštík claimed the tribe was formed between the turn of the 6th century to the 7th century, around the same time as the other Slavic tribes. \n\nIn the 9th century Moravians settled mainly around the historic Region of Moravia and Western Slovakia, but also in parts of central-southern Poland, Lower Austria (up to the Danube) and Upper Hungary. The first known mention of the Moravians was in the Annales Regni Francorum in 822 AD. The tribe was located by the Bavarian Geographer between the tribe of the Bohemians and the tribe of the Bulgarians. \n\nIn the 9th century Moravians gain control over neighbouring Nitra and founded the Realm of Great Moravia, ruled by the Mojmír dynasty until the 10th century. At times, the empire controlled even other neighboring regions, including Bohemia and parts of present-day Hungary, Poland and Ukraine. It emerged into one of the most powerful states in Central Europe.\n\nAfter the breakup of the Moravian Realm the Moravian tribe was divided between the new states Duchy of Bohemia and Hungary. The western Moravians were assimilated by the Czechs and presently identify as Czechs. The modern nation of the Slovaks was formed out of the eastern part of the Moravian tribe within the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nBretislaus I, Duke of Bohemia, solving the successor question (5 sons), in his will decided to completely reorganize Moravia, it should govern the younger sons of the royal family. It was still considered one of the country, but from an objective standpoint it was weakened and Moravia could not lead to the formation of the medieval \"nation\" as quickly as in Bohemia. The way leading to the differentiation of the Moravians from the Czechs was caused by political and economic changes of the late 12th and early 13th century. Czech historical tradition was grown in Moravia during the Middle Ages, for example Czech Chronicles was reread and distributed.\n\nMoravian ethnicity was declared for the first time in the population census of 1991. After the Velvet Revolution a strong political movement to reinstate the Moravian-Silesian land (\"země Moravskoslezská\" in Czech, having been one of the four lands of Czechoslovakia between 1928 and 1939) was active in Moravia. Accordingly, the so far officially united Czech ethnicity was split in line with the historical division of the Czech Republic into Bohemia, Moravia and Czech Silesia (the \"Czech lands\"). Part of the Czech speaking inhabitants of Moravia declared Moravian ethnicity and part of the Czech speaking inhabitants of Czech Silesia declared Silesian ethnicity.\n\n1,363,000 citizens of the Czech Republic declared Moravian ethnicity in 1991. However, the number dropped to 380,474 in the 2001 census – many persons previously declaring themselves as Moravians declared themselves again as Czechs in this census. In 2011, the number increased again to 522,474. The strongest sense of patriotism towards Moravia is found in the environs of Brno, the former capital of Moravia.\n\nOnly in the first years after the Velvet Revolution in 1989 did a few Moravian political parties seem to be able to gain some success in elections. However they lost much of their strength around the time of the Dissolution of Czechoslovakia in 1993 when Czechoslovakia peacefully split into the Czech Republic and Slovak Republic.\n\nAccording to the 2011 Census, the percentage of people without religion was lowest in the Moravian Zlín Region, followed by the partly Bohemian, partly Moravian Vysočina Region, the South Moravian Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, and the predominantly Moravian Olomouc Region.\n\nThe tiny Moravané Party advocates separatism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9266729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9266729", "title": "Musgum people", "text": "Musgum people\n\nThe Musgum or Mulwi are an ethnic group in Cameroon, Chad and Nigeria. They speak Musgu, a Chadic language, which had 61,500 speakers in Cameroon in 1982 and 24,408 speakers in Chad in 1993. The Musgum call themselves \"Mulwi\".\n\nIn Cameroon, the Musgum live in the Maga sub-division, Kai-Kai sub-division Mayo-Danay division, Far North Province. In Chad, they live in Bongor Subprefecture, Guelendeng, Katoa Mayo-Kebbi Prefecture, Wadang and in N'Djaména Subprefecture, in areas such as Ngueli, Sukkabir, etc. Chari-Baguirmi Prefecture. This territory lies between the Chari and Logone rivers. Increasing numbers of Musgum in Cameroon are settling farther north, in the direction of Kousséri. Waza, a national park in Cameroon is founded on Musgum territory. This name derives from the Musgum word \"Waza\" which means \"my house, or my homeland\"; Moulvoudaye, which means \"I buy people\" was a slave trading center. We also have the \"peak of Mindif\" translated as \"la den tde Mindif\", comes from a Musgum word \"Mindif\" which literally means \"the mouth of man\" The Musgum people are autochthone people in Kousseri, living with their fellow brothers Kotoko. Both of these tribes are descendant of SAO people who were the pioneer around the Lake Chad. In Nigeria, they live mainly in Borno State in Eastern North of Nigeria, especially in areas such as Bama, Banki, Gambaru, villages neighbouring Darak, Blangoua with their neighbours Kanuri with which they formed the Borno Empire. They have a common history since the time they harmoniously lived and constituted the Baguirmi Empire. In one word, they are spread in five sub-divisions over six in the Far North Region.\n\nThe Musgum are Afro-Asiatic in origin, having displaced the Paleo-Sudanese at the present territory along with other Neo-Sudanese groups. They are first of all warrior people. When the Fulani people arrived in their territories, they tried to subdue and compel them to accept Islam by war, but they did not succeed by this way. That is why some of their chiefs such as Zigla, Awersing etc. came out with their troops to drive them out and to take back their areas. As such a tremendous battle was held in the village of Bogo in Diamaré Division ( its name comes from a Musgum word meaning \"noise\" and refers to the site of the battle). At the fullness of time, that war was followed by the victory of Musgum troops and the loss of the territory by the Fulani groups. That caused them to flee away from Bogo to Adamawa. After having succeeded in Norh and Adamawa region, some of the Fulani people went back to Bogo where they adopted the procedure of islamization by ruse. This is a process whereby a Fulani man decides deliberately to give his daughter to a wealthy Musgum man, or to a man known by his community as chief of a village. Obviously, their aim was to inherit by a blood relationship the wealth and chiefdoms. For instance, the kingdom of Bogo which is the Musgum kingdom mixed with Fulani by marriage covenant. Be it in Cameroon or in Chad, Musgum areas are ruled by a native Musgum chief and not by an outsider. For example, the Sultanate of Pouss, the Lamidat of Guirvidig, the Sultanate of Zina, and the Lamidat of Bogo. Musgum people are also known as initiators of \"Laba\" or Labana, which is a traditional rite for fighting. In the present day world, the dream of a young Musgum man is to practice a military activity.\n\nFishing is an important activity for the Musgum during the dry and rainy season when the Logone River floods. This has led to ethnic tensions with their rival fishermen of the Kotoko ethnic group (who are also of the Chadic branch of the Afro-Asiatic stock).\n\n\n\nABIA Samuel GAOU,(2015 Cameroon)\n"}
{"id": "35860915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35860915", "title": "Nazir Leghari", "text": "Nazir Leghari\n\nNazir Leghari (, born 11 November 1955) is a Pakistani journalist, writer and a news analyst.\nNazir Leghari was born in Rajanpur, Punjab, Pakistan. He came to Karachi as a young boy and finished his basic education in that city. He further went on to receive his law degree from the University of Karachi.\nLeghari is also the author of four books, \"Siyaasat e Douraan\", \"Seenay Jhokan Deedain Deray\", based on his visits to Saudi Arabia, Egypt and the UK, \"Tareekh Bolti Hai\" comprising his interviews and meetings with more than 15 world leaders and his book \"Arz-e-Haal\".\n\nLeghari is also a veteran newspaper \"columnist\".\nOn 23 March 2014, Nazir Leghari received President of Pakistan's Award for \"Pride of Performance\". ()\n\nIn January 2015, Nazir Leghari joined BOL Media Group as Senior Executive Vice President and Editor Urdu Daily of BOL News.\n\nNazir Leghari was born at Rajanpur, Punjab, Pakistan. He came to Karachi as a young boy and finished his basic education in that city. He further went on to do L.L.B from Karachi University.\n\nNazir Leghari joined Daily Nawa e Waqt in 1981. \n\nHe joined Daily Jang in 1985 as In-charge London desk. In 1986 he took charge of political edition. In 1987 he took charge of editorial page of Daily Jang. In 1989 he be became magazine editor of Daily Jang. In 1990 he was assigned as Assistant Editor (news) Daily Jang.\n\nIn 1990, he started writing a column called \"Karachi Diary\" in the Urdu language weekly Akhbar-e-Jahan.\n\nIn 1993, he established a newspaper \"Daily Public\" along with \"Anwar Sen Roy\" as its editor. He was the News Editor and chief reporter of Daily Public.\n\nIn August 1994, Nazir Leghari joined the newspaper \"Daily Awam\" as Editor. \nIn 2006, he started writing a column in Daily Jang on a regular basis.\nIn 2008, he was appointed to work as member of Editorial Committee of Geo News along with his other responsibilities.\nIn 2012, he was appointed as the Editor of Daily Jang, the largest circulating newspaper of Pakistan.\n\nIn January 2015, he left Jang Group and joined BOL Media Group as Senior Executive Vice President and is currently working there.\n\nIn October 2016, he became the 'President and Editor-in-Chief' of BOL Media Group.\nHe is also currently a part of the show 'Ab Baat Hogi' on BOL News which airs at 11:00 pm from Monday to Friday. This show replaced the old show 'Top Five Breaking' which was aired on the channel from December 2016 till June 2018.\n\nNazir Leghari is the author of four books:\n\nHe interviewed many politicians during historic movement of MRD. He interviewed Agha Saddaruddin Durrani (former Speaker Sindh Assembly), Abdul Hafeez Lakho (council for Mr Zulfikar Ali Bhutto in Supreme Court) Mir Hazar Khjan Bijarani, President PPP Sindh, Syed Saeed Hassan (former MPA Sindh), Justice Shafi Mohammadi, Hakim Ali Zardari (father of Asif Ali Zardari) and many others. He wrote 80 biographical episodes of G Allana, (1st mayor of Karachi after independence, close relative to founder of Nation Quaid e Azam Mohammnad Ali Jinnah and a renowned English poet).\n\nIn 1987-8 he interviewed for weekly Akhbar e Jahan more than 50 Pakistani politicians including Benazir Bhutto, Khan Abdul Wali Khan, Mir Ghaus Bakhsh Bizanjo, Mian Mumtaz Mohammad Khan Doultana, Fazal Rahu, G M Syed, Malik Meraj Khalid, Meraj Mohammad Khan, Dr Mubbashir Hassan, Sardar Shaukat Ali, Jam Saqi, Syed Alam Shah, Nawabzada Nasarullah Khan, Maulana Fazal Ur Rehman, Maulana Shah Ahmed Noorani, Shah Farid ul Haque, Abdul Hafiz Pirzada, Mumtaz Ali Bhutto, Ghulam Mustafa Jatoi, Sardar Sher Baz Khan Mazari, Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti, Prince Mohiuddin Baloch, Justice S Anwar ul Haque, Justice Dorab Patel, Justice Fakharuddin G Ibrahim, Justice Yaqoob Khan, Hanif Ramay, Malik Qasim, Khawaja Khairuddin, Fatehyab Ali Khan, Maulana Shah Mohammad Amroti and many others.\n\nPride of Performance Award () by the President of Pakistan in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "38958581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38958581", "title": "Nhlangwini language", "text": "Nhlangwini language\n\nNhlangwini (Hlangwane) is a Bantu language of South Africa. It is located along the border between Xhosa and Zulu, but is more closely related to Swazi.\n\n•Phyllis Jane Nonhlanhla Zungu, 1989, \"Nhlangwini, a Tekela-Nguni Dialect and Its Relationship to \"standard Zulu\" and Other Nguni Dialects\", University of Natal, Pietermaritzburg.\n"}
{"id": "47497196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47497196", "title": "Polack", "text": "Polack\n\nIn the contemporary English language, the nouns Polack ( and ) or Polak are ethnic slurs and derogatory references to a person of Polish descent. It is an Anglicisation of the Polish masculine noun \"Polak\", which denotes a Polish male or a person of Polish ethnicity and unspecified gender. However, the English loanword is considered now an ethnic slur and therefore considered insulting in nearly all contemporary usages.\n\nAccording to Online Etymology Dictionary by Douglas Harper, \"Polack\" meant as \"Polish immigrant, person of Polish descent\" was used in American English until the late 19th century (1879) to describe a \"Polish person\" in a non-offensive way (1574). Dictionary.com Unabridged (v 1.1) based on the Unabridged Dictionary by Random House claims that the word originated between 1590–1600. For example, Shakespeare uses the term \"Polacks\" in his tragedy \"Hamlet\" to refer to opponents of Hamlet's father. A quote is given below:\n\nIn an Irish-published edition of \"Hamlet\" by the \"Educational Company\", Patrick Murray noted: \"Some editors, however, argue that \"Polacks\" should read as \"pole-axe\", and that Horatio is remembering an angry Old Hamlet striking the ice with his battle-axe\".\n\nOn 26 July 2008, \"The Times\" newspaper from the United Kingdom featured a comment piece by restaurant reviewer and columnist Giles Coren (known for his profanity-strewn complaints), containing general anti-Polish sentiment. In a piece, entitled \"Two waves of immigration, Poles apart\", Coren used the racial slur 'Polack' to describe Polish immigrants who can \"clear off\". He went on to articulate his views about the role of Poles in the Holocaust in occupied Poland. The piece prompted a letter of complaint to \"The Times\" from the Polish ambassador to the UK, Barbara Tuge-Erecińska. She wrote that \"the issue of Polish-Jewish relations has been unfairly and deeply falsified\" by his \"aggressive remarks\" and \"contempt\". Coren's comments caused the Federation of Poles in Great Britain to demand a published apology from \"The Times\" under threat of an official complaint to the Press Complaints Commission, which has the power to force an apology.\n\nThe neutral English language noun for a Polish person (male or female) today is Pole (see also: Naming Poland in foreign languages). In some other languages such as Swedish or Norwegian, \"polack\" or \"polakk\" are inoffensive terms for a person from Poland.\n\nIn Iberian languages, \"polaco\" is a mild slur for people from Catalonia, though it is a completely neutral way of referencing Polish people in all Ibero-American countries except Brazil, where, much like \"galego\" (Galician), \"alemão\" (German) and \"russo\" (Russian), it became a politically incorrect term, and the noun used for Polish people is \"polonês\" (such term is absent from Spanish and other Portuguese variants).\n\nIn Russian and Ukrainian the old exonym \"лях\" (\"lyakh, lyakhy\") is now considered offensive, and is replaced by the neutral \"поляк\" (\"polyak\"). \n\nAnother common Russian ethnic slur for Poles is \"пшек\" (\"pshek\"), an onomatopoeia derived from Polish phonology: prepositions \"prze-\" and \"przy-\" are quite common with 'rz' corresponding to the sound of \"sh\", and the sibilant-sounding speech (e.g., \"przepraszam\" (\"excuse me\") transcribed as \"psheprasham\") has been a target of mockery in Russian culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "23443403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23443403", "title": "Polygamy in Ethiopia", "text": "Polygamy in Ethiopia\n\nWhile polygamy in Ethiopia has been formally abolished in the Family and Criminal Code of Ethiopia, the practice is still common with five percent of married Ethiopian men having more than one wife. Several stories of polygamous groupings have made international news. The most recent story covered the life of a polygamous man who is currently married to twelve wives with whom he bore a total of 78 children.\n"}
{"id": "501281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=501281", "title": "Post-industrial society", "text": "Post-industrial society\n\nIn sociology, the post-industrial society is the stage of society's development when the service sector generates more wealth than the manufacturing sector of the economy.\n\nThe term was originated by Alain Touraine and is closely related to similar sociological theoretical constructs such as post-Fordism, information society, knowledge economy, post-industrial economy, liquid modernity, and network society. They all can be used in economics or social science disciplines as a general theoretical backdrop in research design.\n\nAs the term has been used, a few common themes, including the ones below have begun to emerge.\n\n\nDaniel Bell popularized the term through his 1974 work \"The Coming of Post-Industrial Society\". Although some have credited Bell with coining the term, French sociologist Alain Touraine published in 1969 the first major work on the post-industrial society. The term was also used extensively by social philosopher Ivan Illich in his 1973 paper \"Tools for Conviviality\" and appears occasionally in Leftist texts throughout the mid-to-late 1960s.\n\nThe term has grown and changed as it became mainstream. The term is now used by admen such as Seth Godin, public policy PhD's such as Keith Boeckelman, and sociologists such as Neil Fligstein and Ofer Sharone. Former U.S. President Bill Clinton even used the term to describe Chinese growth in a round-table discussion in Shanghai in 1998.\n\nThe post-industrialized society is marked by an increased valuation of knowledge. This itself is unsurprising, having been foreshadowed in Daniel Bell's presumption as to how economic employment patterns will evolve in such societies. He asserts employment will grow faster in the tertiary (and quaternary) sector relative to employment in the primary and secondary sector and that the tertiary (and quaternary) sectors will take precedence in the economy. This will continue to occur such that the“impact of the expert”will expand and power will be monopolized by knowledge.\n\nAs tertiary and quaternary sector positions are essentially knowledge-oriented, this will result in a restructuring of education, at least in its nuances. The“new power… of the expert”consequently gives rise to the growing role of universities and research institutes in post-industrial societies. Post-industrial societies themselves become oriented around these places of knowledge production and production of experts as their new foci. Consequently, the greatest beneficiaries in the post-industrial society are young urban professionals. As a new, educated, and politicized generation more impassioned by liberalism, social justice, and environmentalism the shift of power into their hands, as a result of their knowledge endowments, is often cited as a good thing.\n\nThe increasing importance of knowledge in post-industrial societies results in a general increase in expertise through the economy and throughout society. In this manner, it eliminates what Alan Banks and Jim Foster identify as “undesirable work as well as the grosser forms of poverty and inequality.” This effect is supplemented by the aforementioned movement of power into the hands of young educated people concerned with social justice.\n\nEconomists at Berkeley have studied the value of knowledge as a form of capital, adding value to material capital, such as factory or a truck. Speaking along the same lines of their argument, the addition or 'production' of knowledge, could become the basis of what would undoubtably be considered 'post-industrial' policies meant to deliver economic growth.\n\nSimilarly, post-industrial society has serviced the creative culture. Many of those most well-equipped to thrive in an increasingly technological society are young adults with tertiary education. As education itself becomes more and more oriented towards producing people capable of answering the need for self-actualization, creativity, and self-expression, successive generations become more endowed with the ability to contribute to and perpetuate such industries. This nuanced change in education, as well among the emerging class of young professionals, is itself initiated by what James D Wright identifies as an “unprecedented economic affluence and the satiation of basic material needs.” Ellen Dunham-Jones as well observes this feature of post-industrial society where “abundant goods [are] equitably distributed [in order that] laborless leisure and self-determination” can be consumed.\n\nThe post-industrial society is repeatedly stressed to be one where knowledge is power and technology is the instrument. Naturally, where one is creatively inclined, they are advantaged by such a society. The doctrine of “speed, mobility and malleability” is well suited to a dynamic creative industry and as industries of good production decrease in precedence, the way is paved for artists, musicians, and other such types, whose skills are better utilized by the tertiary and quaternary sector. Urban geographer Trevor Barnes, in his work outlining the Vancouver experience in post-war development, evokes the post-industrial condition, citing the emergence and consolidation of a significant video games industry as a constituent of the elite service sector.\n\nThis increased faculty of the post-industrialist society with respects to the creative industry is itself reflected by the economic history of post-industrial societies. As economic activities shift from primarily primary and secondary sector-based to tertiary, and later quaternary, sector-based, cities in which this shift occurs become more open to exchanges of information. This is necessitated by the demands of a tertiary and quaternary sector: in order to better service an industry focused on finance, education, communication, management, training, engineering, and aesthetic design, the city must become points of exchange capable of providing the most updated information from across the globe. Conversely, as cities become a convergence of international ideas, the tertiary and quaternary sector can be expected to grow.\n\nA virtual cult of 'creatives' have sprung up embodying and often describing and defending the post-industrial ethos. They argue that businesses that create intangibles have taken a more prominent role in the wake of manufacturing's decline.\n\nActor and then-artistic director of the Old Vic Theatre, Kevin Spacey, has argued the economic case for the arts in terms of providing jobs and being of greater importance in exports than manufacturing (as well as an educational role) in a guest column he wrote for \"The Times\".\n\nPost-industrialism is criticized for the amount of real fundamental change it produces in society, if any at all. A mild view held by Alan Banks and Jim Foster contends that representations of post-industrial society by advocates assume professional, educated elites were previously less relevant than they have become in the new social order, and that changes that have occurred are minor but greatly embellished. More critical views see the entire process as the highest evolution of capitalism, wherein the system produces commodities as opposed to practical goods and is determined privately instead of socially. This view is complemented by the assertion that “the characteristic feature of a modern [that is, post-industrial] society is that it is a technocracy.” Such societies then become notable for their ability to subvert social consciousness through powers of manipulation rather than powers of coercion, reflective of the “ideology of the ruling class [as] … predominantly managerial.”\n\nIn line with the view that nothing fundamental has changed in the transition from industrial societies to post-industrial societies is the insistence of lingering problems from past development periods. Neo-Malthusian in essence, this outlook focuses on post-industrial society’s continuing struggle with issues of resource scarcity, overpopulation, and environmental degradation, all of which are remnants from its industrial history. This is exacerbated by a “corporate liberalism” that seeks to continue economic growth through “the creation and satisfaction of false needs,” or as Christopher Lasch more derisively refers to it, “subsidized waste.”\n\nUrban development in the context of post-industrialism is also a point of contention. In opposition to the view that the new leaders of post-industrial society are increasingly environmentally aware, this critique asserts that it rather leads to environmental degradation, this being rooted in the patterns of development. Urban sprawl, characterised behaviourally by cities “expanding at the periphery in even lower densities” and physically by “office parks, malls, strips, condo clusters, corporate campuses and gated communities,” is singled out as the main issue. Resulting from a post-industrialist culture of “mobile capital, the service economy, post-Fordist disposable consumerism and banking deregulation,” urban sprawl has caused post-industrialism to become environmentally and socially regressive. Of the former, environmental degradation results from encroachment as cities meet demands on low-density habitation; the wider spread of population consumes more of the environment while necessitating more energy consumption in order to facilitate travel within the ever-growing city, incurring greater pollution. This process evokes the neo-Malthusian concerns of overpopulation and resource scarcity that inevitably lead to environmental deterioration. Of the latter, “post-industrialism’s doctrine of … mobility and malleability” encourage a disconnect between communities where social belonging falls into the category of things considered by the “post-Fordist disposable consumer[ist]” attitude as interchangeable, expendable, and replaceable.\n\nPost-industrialism as a concept is highly Western-centric. Theoretically and effectively, it is only possible in the Global West, which its proponents assume to be solely capable of fully realizing industrialization and then post-industrialization. Herman Kahn optimistically predicted the “economic growth, expanded production and growing efficiency” of post-industrial societies and the resultant “material abundance and… high quality of life” to extend to “almost all people in Western societies” and only “some in Eastern societies.” This prediction is treated elsewhere by contentions that the post-industrial society merely perpetuates capitalism.\n\nRecalling the critical assertion that all modern societies are technocracies, T. Roszak completes the analysis by stating that “all societies are moving in the direction of technocracies.” From this, the foremost “suave technocracies” reside in the West, whereas all others are successively graded in descending order: “vulgar technocracies,” “teratoid technocracies,” and finally “comic opera technocracies.” This view importantly presumes one transition and furthermore one path of transition for societies to undergo, i.e. the one that Western societies are slated to complete. Much like the demographic transition model, this prediction does not entertain the idea of an Eastern or other alternative model of transitional development.\n\nWhen historians and sociologists considered the revolution that followed the agricultural society they did not call it a \"post-agricultural society\". \"Post-industrial society\" signifies only a departure, not a positive description.\n\nOne of the word's early users, Ivan Illich, prefigured this criticism and invented the term Conviviality, or the Convivial Society, to stand as a positive description of his version of a post-industrial society.\n\nA group of scholars (including Allen Scott and Edward Soja) argue that industry remains at the center of the whole process of capitalist accumulation, with services not only becoming increasingly industrialized and automated but also remaining highly dependent on industrial growth.\n\nSome observers, including Soja (building on the theories of the French philosopher of urbanism Henri Lefebvre), suggest that although industry may be based outside of a \"post-industrial\" nation, that nation cannot ignore industry's necessary sociological importance.\n\n"}
{"id": "9657146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9657146", "title": "Public rights", "text": "Public rights\n\nIn the United States, public rights, as compared to private rights, belong to citizens but are vested in and vindicated by political entities. Public rights cannot be vindicated by private citizens. A right must normally be a private right to be vindicated in court.\n\nAn exception to this general proposition is found in \"Flast v. Cohen\", 392 U.S. 83 (1968). In \"Flast\", the U.S. Supreme Court held that a private citizen could challenge the constitutionality of a federal tax if the citizen established \"a logical link between [their] status [as a taxpayer] and the type of legislative enactment attacked [and] . . . a nexus between that status and the precise nature of the constitutional infringement alleged.\" \n\nIn Australia, public rights is an entitlement enjoyed by the community, in contrast to a private or personal entitlement. Such as a claim to tolls on a public highway, a right of ferry. Public rights may exist at common law or under statute. For example, the right of access to information held by the government is existing at common law. \n\n"}
{"id": "18864637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18864637", "title": "Radioamaterski Sojuz na Makedonija", "text": "Radioamaterski Sojuz na Makedonija\n\nThe Radioamateur Society of Macedonia (RSM) ( in Macedonian, Радиоаматерски Сојуз на Македонија (РСМ) ) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in the Republic of Macedonia. Key membership benefits of RSM include the sponsorship of amateur radio operating awards and radio contests, and a QSL bureau for those members who regularly communicate with amateur radio operators in other countries. Radioamateur Society of Macedonia represents the interests of Macedonian amateur radio operators before Macedonian, European, and international telecommunications regulatory authorities. Radioamateur Society of Macedonia is the national member society representing the Republic of Macedonia in the International Amateur Radio Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "25893385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25893385", "title": "Sarará", "text": "Sarará\n\nIn Brazil, a sarará ( or ) is a multiracial person, being a particular kind of \"mulato\" or \"juçara\" (a tri-racial pardo with Amerindian features), with perceivable Black African facial features, light complexion and fair but curly hair, called \"cabelo crespo\", or fair but Afro-like frizzly hair, called \"carapinha\", \"cabelo encarapinhado\" or \"cabelo pixaim\" (). In the 1998 IBGE PME (Monthly Employment Survey), 0.04% of respondents identified, in an inquiry on race/colour, as \"sarará\".\n\nWhile the emphasis on fair skin in Brazil is not as visible as in other post-colonial societies, with many preferring and advocating the \"moreno\" or olive skin beauty type, European facial features and hair texture are a beauty standard in Brazil, and many people of diverse backgrounds use flat irons and chemical hair treatments to pass their hair as straight or wavy. In a society that divides between \"white\" and \"black\", \"sararás\" will be placed together with the Brown-skinned \"pardos\" as non-whites, despite their fair complexion and hair.\n\nIt is known that the genes responsible for blondism i.e. blonde hair (that probably firstly appeared around the Baltic Sea) and rutilism i.e. red hair (that probably firstly appeared in Africa and then spread to other continents, but is only present in significant numbers in Western Eurasian populations and their descendants) are recessive, so that a person with full Amerindian or sub-Saharan African ancestry, or a mixing between the two, is by far very unlikely to have red-haired or blond-haired offspring, no matter how fair the complexion of her or his Caucasian or multiracial sexual partner or spouse.\n\nThe genes responsible for brown hair are also extremely rare among Indigenous peoples of the Americas and Black Africans, but not as uncommon. The most common hair colour in Brazil is brown. Natural blond and red hair are especially found in the South where 78% of the population has European phenotype, home to large German-Austrian (Santa Catarina), Dutch, Norwegian, Northern Italian, and Slavic (Paraná) populations, and the Southeast region that has the largest absolute numbers of Whites. About 21% of Brazilians descend from the country's indigenous peoples and Portuguese settlers, as well as Dutch, French and Spanish colonial settlers, including Crypto-Jews or Anusim and Gypsies or Roma people, while 7% to 25% also have African slave ancestors. Since the arrival of the Portuguese in 1500, considerable miscegenation between these groups has taken place, in all regions of the country (with European ancestry being dominant nationwide according to the vast majority of all autosomal studies undertaken covering the entire population, accounting for between 65% to 77%).\n\nMost Portuguese colonists as well as most Portuguese immigrants to Brazil came from Northern Portugal, which are its blondest regions. Colonial Brazil was also home to some Dutch invaders who were successful at staying in Brazil even after their territorial loss. The second most common non-Portuguese European group in Colonial Brazil were the French, with its cultural influence, represented by things such as the French artistic mission, that can be seen until this day, with the greater number of loanwords into Brazilian Portuguese coming from the French language.\n\nThe earliest Central European mass immigration started by the 1830s, and increased much in part due to the slavery crisis. Together with the Germans and the Swiss, came the early Italians. While the total Italian immigration to Brazil was evenly distributed between South, Center and North, most early Italian colonists came from the Northern provinces who had land borders with other European countries. Other immigration waves, from all regions of Europe, as well the Levantine Arabs and East Asians, came thereafter.\n\nA colonial Spanish genetic contribution is present in the southernmost state of Rio Grande do Sul, with some estimates placing it almost as high as the Portuguese one, and up to 15 million people nowadays are descendants of post-independence Spanish immigration waves. As with those descended from the Portuguese, most Brazilians of Spanish heritage trace it to the blondest region of Spain, Galicia.\n\nGenetic research on ancestry of Brazilians of different races has extensively shown that, regardless of skin colour, Brazilians generally have European, African and Amerindian ancestors.\n\nAccording to a genetic study about Brazilians, on the paternal side, 98% of the White Brazilian Y chromosome comes from a European male ancestor, only 2% from an African ancestor, and there is a complete absence of Amerindian contributions. On the maternal side, 39% have a European Mitochondrial DNA, 33% Amerindian and 28% African MtDNA. This analysis only shows a small fraction of a person's ancestry (the Y Chromosome comes from a single male ancestor and the mtDNA from a single female ancestor, while the contributions of the many other ancestors is not specified), but it shows that miscigenation in Brazil was directional, between Portuguese males and African and Amerindian females.\n\nAnalyzing Black Brazilians' Y chromosome, which comes from male ancestors through the paternal line, it was concluded that half (50%) of the Black Brazilian population has at least one male ancestor who came from Europe, 48% has at least one male ancestor who came from Africa and 1.6% has at least one male ancestor who was Amerindian. Analyzing their mitochondrial DNA, that comes from female ancestors though maternal line, 85% of them have at least a female ancestor who came from Africa, 12.5% have at least a female ancestor who was Native Brazilian and only 2.5% have at least a female ancestor who came from Europe.\n\nAs for the complete genetic ancestry of Brazilians, research has shown that it is predominantly European, even among non-white Brazilians. According to another study (autosomal DNA) conducted on a school in the poor periphery of Rio de Janeiro the \"pardos\" there were found to be on average over 80% European, and the \"whites\" (who thought of themselves as \"very mixed\") were found out to carry very little Amerindian and/or African admixtures. \"The results of the tests of genomic ancestry are quite different from the self made estimates of European ancestry\", say the researchers. In general, the test results showed that European ancestry is far more important than the students thought it would be. The \"pardos\" for example thought of themselves as 1/3 European, 1/3 African and 1/3 Amerindian before the tests, and yet their ancestry was determined to be at over 80% European.\n\nAnother autosomal DNA study, from 2010, also focused on the autosomal contribution (which is about the sum of the ancestors of each individual, the overall picture), found out that almost 80% of the Brazilian genes are of European origin in all regions except in the South where it stands for 90% of them (regardless of census' racial classification). \"Ancestry informative SNPs can be useful to estimate individual and population biogeographical ancestry. Brazilian population is characterized by a genetic background of three parental populations (European, African, and Brazilian Native Amerindians) with a wide degree and diverse patterns of admixture. In this work we analyzed the information content of 28 ancestry-informative SNPs into multiplexed panels using three parental population sources (African, Amerindian, and European) to infer the genetic admixture in an urban sample of the five Brazilian geopolitical regions. The SNPs assigned apart the parental populations from each other and thus can be applied for ancestry estimation in a three hybrid admixed population. Data was used to infer genetic ancestry in Brazilians with an admixture model. Pairwise estimates of F(st) among the five Brazilian geopolitical regions suggested little genetic differentiation only between the South and the remaining regions. Estimates of ancestry results are consistent with the heterogeneous genetic profile of Brazilian population, \"with a major contribution of European ancestry (0.771) followed by African (0.143) and Amerindian contributions (0.085)\". The described multiplexed SNP panels can be useful tool for bioanthropological studies but it can be mainly valuable to control for spurious results in genetic association studies in admixed populations.\" The samples came from \"free of charge\" paternity test takers, thus as the researchers made it explicit: \"the paternity tests were free of charge, the population samples involved people of variable socioeconomic strata, although likely to be leaning slightly towards the ‘‘pardo’’ group\".\n\nAccording to another different study (also autosomal DNA from 2009), European ancestry predominates in the Brazilian population. The Brazilians as a whole, from all regions, and of all complexions, would lie \"more closely to the European group\" than to the African populations or to the mestizos from Mexico, from the genetical point of view. This shows that the genotypes of individuals in a miscigenated population does not necessarily match their phenotype.\n\nIn the 19th and 20th century Brazilian culture has promoted racial integration and miscegenation. Intermixing is common between Brazilians who come from more recent immigrant waves and those descendant of older, or different, immigrant communities. Interracial marriages comprised 22.6% of all marriages in 2000. There has never been a widespread taboo against racial or ethnic mixing in any Brazilian ethnic community, with the notable exceptions of German and latter Japanese immigrants, who nevertheless fully integrated in the second halves of the 19th and 20th centuries respectively. In Brazilian culture, ethnic preservation taboos are regarded as plain fear of outsiders – in part inherited from nationalism defining a single Brazilian cultural identity, with no space for any other.\n\nSince the offspring of a couple with some genetic differences will have a random combination of their genotypes, their appearance, that depends on a smaller number of elements from this gene pool, will also be of a random combination. As a result of the continuing process of intermixing, any sort of phenotype between those stereotypically European, African or Amerindian will show up, and even if many of the genes related to European-like features are recessive, they are likely to evenly manifest in the Brazilian population, just being more common in the regions where European immigration was greater.\n"}
{"id": "5012301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5012301", "title": "Scientology as a business", "text": "Scientology as a business\n\nThe Church of Scientology publicly classifies itself as a religion, and some scholars consider it a new religious movement, but that claim has been challenged for decades on the grounds that the Church operates more like a for-profit business than a church. Overall, as stated by Stephen A. Kent, Scientology can be seen as a \"multi-faceted transnational corporation that has religion as only one of its many components. Other components include political aspirations, business ventures, cultural productions, pseudo-medical practices, pseudo-psychiatric claims, and (among its most devoted members who have joined the Sea Organization), an alternative family structure.\" The Church of Scientology justifies that its financial activities support its religious purpose, a position accepted by several governments globally.\n\nSeveral of the Church's practices resemble business operations, including paying recruiters a cut of the money made from the people they attract and the franchising network that results in large revenues for the highest levels of the Church. Such activities distinguish Scientology from other religious organizations. The Church pays 10% commissions to recruiters, called Field Staff Members (FSMs), on new recruits they bring in who take a course or receive counseling. In addition, Church of Scientology franchises/missions, pay the Church roughly 10% of their gross income. The Church charges for auditing and other Church-related courses required for advancing through the ranks of Scientology. These programs can run to tens or hundreds of thousands of dollars.\n\nThe Scientology Bridge to Total Freedom consists of one half relating to levels of higher states of spiritual existence, and the other half the skills relating to helping another reach that level. Training is described as \"50% of the route\"\n\nThe Religious Technology Center maintains strict control over the use of Scientology symbols, icons, and names. It claims copyright and trademark over the \"Scientology cross,\" and its lawyers have threatened lawsuits against individuals and organizations who have published these protected images without permission in books and on websites. Because of this, it is difficult for individual groups to attempt to practice Scientology publicly without any affiliation or connection to the \"official\" Church of Scientology. Scientology has sued a number of individuals who attempted to set up their own \"auditing\" practices, using copyright and trademark law to shut these competitors down.\n\nWriting in \"Skeptic\" magazine, Michael Shermer contrasted such practices with mainstream religions: \"Envision converting to Judaism but having to pay for courses in order to hear the story of Abraham and Isaac, Noah and the flood, or Moses and the Ten Commandments. Or imagine joining the Catholic Church but not being told about the crucifixion and the resurrection until you have reached Operating Theological Level III, which can only be attained after many years and tens of thousands of dollars in church-run courses.\"\n\nThe German government takes the view that Scientology is a commercial enterprise, and Belgium, France, Ireland, Luxembourg, Philippines, Israel and Mexico remain unconvinced that Scientology is a religion.\n\nOther countries have recognised Scientology as a religion. An Australian Government Inquiry into Charities in 2001 found that the 1983 High Court case which found Scientology to be a religion, and also defined religion for the Constitution, used as the standard to determine what organisations are charitable.\n\nCritics have claimed that L. Ron Hubbard, the founder of the Church of Scientology, decided to market the practice as a religion for practical reasons. Harlan Ellison reported being present when the idea for creating a new religion was first discussed: \"Lester del Rey then said half-jokingly, 'What you really ought to do is create a religion because it will be tax-free,' and at that point everyone in the room started chiming in with ideas for this new religion. So the idea was a Gestalt that Ron caught on to and assimilated the details. He then wrote it up as 'Dianetics: A New Science of the Mind' and sold it to John W. Campbell Jr., who published it in Astounding Science Fiction in 1950.\" Hubbard had a different origin story and stated that Dianetics had been researched during the years 1945-50 and it was initially presented as a science, however religious ideas were added into the book Science of Survival published in 1951. After the commercial failure of the Dianetics Foundation and disputes over the direction of the subject, Hubbard revisited the possibility of classifying his philosophical teachings as a religion. In a 1953 letter, Hubbard wrote that \"the religion angle\" seemed to make sense as \"a matter of practical business\".\n\nThe Founding Church of Scientology of Washington, D.C. had obtained tax-exempt status in 1956 on the claim that it was \"a corporation organized and operated exclusively for religious purposes, no part of the earnings of which inures to any individual\". That status was revoked in 1958, on the grounds (as argued by the U.S. Department of Justice in subsequent proceedings) that the Church's \"most extensive and significant activities are directed towards the earnings of substantial fees\" and \"the founder of the organisation L. Ron Hubbard remains in complete control and receives substantial remuneration and perquisites both from the taxpayer and a network of affiliates\". The findings of fact in the case included that Hubbard had personally received over $108,000 ($600,000 in 2012 value) from the Church and affiliates over a four-year period, over and above the percentage of gross income (usually 10%) he received from Church-affiliated organizations. In addition, the Church had paid for Hubbard's car and for his personal residence, Mary Sue Hubbard had made over $10,000 renting property to the Church, and while the $3,242 paid to Hubbard's daughter Kay had been \"generally designated as salary or wages\", \"the record is devoid of any evidence showing services performed by Miss Hubbard for [the Church].\" The Court of Claims concluded \"What emerges from these facts is the inference that the Hubbard family was entitled to make ready personal use of the corporate earnings.\" More recently the IRS granted religious recognition and full tax deductibility to the Church of Scientology in the USA in 1993.\n\nAccording to the Church of Scientology, Field Auditors usually make a significant amount of their income from 15% FSM (Field Staff Member) Commissions. This is from referring their preclears to nearby (larger) Class V orgs or to the Sea Orgs for advanced training and processing.\n\nField Auditors also charge for auditing services, which the Church of Scientology says can also generate significant income:\n\nThe church owns approximately 12 million square feet of property, with Hollywood at the center, and twenty-six properties worth 400 million. In Clearwater, Florida, is the church’s spiritual headquarters, where the church possesses 68 parcels of land worth 168 million. Buildings in other countries are typically restored architectural landmarks. The church also owns a 500-acre compound in Southern California, a cruise ship called the Freewinds and a 64,000 square-foot medieval-style castle and resort in South Africa.\n\nThe church also owns historic buildings, including the 1927 hotel Château Élysée, remodeled as the Celebrity Center International, the 1923 Christie Hotel on Hollywood Boulevard which is now the Church of Scientology Information Center, a community center in South L.A., (a 1930s art deco building), and the Braley building in Pasadena, now a church, constructed in 1906 for Edgar Braley’s bicycle emporium. In 2016, the church opened the Scientology Media Productions, previously the KCET studios. It was purchased from KCET in 2011 for 42 million dollars and preserved as a Los Angeles historic-cultural monument. Although church spokesperson Karin Pouw says that restoring buildings of historical significance is a way that the church “gives back to the community,” according to LA Weekly, former high-ranking Scientology officials claim that profit is the main reason why the studio was built, while the church maintains its tax-free status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6373412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6373412", "title": "Southern Highlands Golf Club", "text": "Southern Highlands Golf Club\n\nSouthern Highlands Golf Club is a private eighteen-hole golf course and a highly affluent neighborhood located in the Southern Highlands area of the Las Vegas Valley. The golf course was co-designed by Robert Trent Jones and his son Robert Trent Jones, Jr. It was the elder Jones' final work and one of four courses they designed together.\n\nIt is situated in the southwest foothills of Greater Las Vegas. All of the homes are guard-gated and many are strategically placed to avoid being seen from street level. The Golf Club consists of a single 24 hour guard-gated community with private roads that are only accessible through the three entry gates.\n\nAs one of the wealthiest neighborhoods in the United States, Southern Highlands Golf Club is home to multiple gaming executives, real estate developers, professional athletes, musicians, actors and actresses, corporate executives, philanthropists and politicians. The neighborhood has one of the highest average home prices in the country, at $1,742,210. A smaller neighborhood within the Golf Club, \"The Estates at Southern Highlands\", frequently exceeds eight-figures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13771687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13771687", "title": "Swedish Baltic Sea Water Award", "text": "Swedish Baltic Sea Water Award\n\nThe Swedish Baltic Sea Water Award was a regional award by the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs now discontinued. It had been administrated by Stockholm International Water Institute\n\nUp till 2010, the award had been presented each August during the World Water Week in Stockholm. The winner received a SEK 250,000 prize sum, a crystal sculpture, and travel and accommodation to participate at the World Water Week in Stockholm .\n\n2010 Prof. Maciej Nowicki and Prof. Marek Gromiec, Poland\nIn recognition of their respective efforts to reduce the Polish nutrient loads to the Baltic Sea.\n\n2009 Helsinki Commission (HELCOM), Finland\nHELCOM works to protect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea from all sources of pollution through intergovernmental co-operation between Denmark, Estonia, the European Community, Finland, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Sweden. HELCOM is governing the \"Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area\" (the Helsinki Convention) and has shown exemplary commitment to improving the Baltic Sea through the adoption of the Baltic Sea Action Plan.\n\n2008 Prof. Krzysztof Edward Skóra, Hel Marine Station at the University of Gdańsk, Poland\nProfessor Skóra received the award for his research which exposes the impacts of new invasive species on the sensitive coastal water ecosystems in Poland. Among Professor Skóras achievements is also the establishment of the Hel Marine Station at the University of Gdansk. The marine station generates, facilitates and spreads research on the ecology of fish and marine mammals and the protection of rare species in the Baltic. It also educates and engages the public through study visits, specialist courses and seminars.\n\n2007 Ecodefense, Kaliningrad, Russia\nEcodefense received the award for its efforts to increase knowledge on and awareness of the Baltic Sea water environment. One of the most notable successes has been the ”Clean Rivers – Clean Baltic Sea” campaign. Since 1999, this highly appreciated Ecodefense effort has aimed to protect water resources, limit pollution of the water system from industry and educate young people and teachers in Kaliningrad. This has involved, among other things, education and broadening of knowledge among the general public, government departments, authorities, politicians and companies by means of reports, hearings and campaigns – and all in a region with severe environmental problems.\n\n2006 Mr. Björn Carlson, Sweden\nBjörn Carlson received the award for his great commitment to improve the Baltic Sea marine environment. He has shown his commitment by, among other things, donating 500 million Swedish crowns to the Baltic Sea Foundation. To ensure the scientific quality of the Foundation’s work, he has appointed The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences as trustee of the donation. Through this large donation, he wishes to encourage politicians, authorities, companies, fishing societies and other sectors around the entire Baltic Sea to dare to try new methods and to take unconventional measures in the work to improve the sea’s marine environment. This exceptional contribution will likely increase pressure for coordinated and powerful measures for a cleaner Baltic Sea, to the delight of future generations.\n\n2005 Vodokanal St. Petersburg and its General Director, Mr. Felix Karmazinov\nVodokanal, which is the municipal water utility for St. Petersburg, and Mr. Karmazinov have been the driving forces behind completion of the Southwest Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWTP), which will be inaugurated in September 2005. Once it does, 1.5 million citizens of the city will no longer on a daily basis send 330,000 cubic metres of untreated wastewater – enough to fill 330 Olympic-size swimming pools – straight into the Neva River and from there, the Gulf of Finland and thus the Baltic Sea. \n\n2004 Nature Management and Water Environment Division of Fyn County, Denmark\nThe Nature Management and Water Environment Division of Fyn County, Denmark, received the award for its monitoring and analysis of the water environment and pollution discharge and long-term efforts that have laid the foundation for cost effective point and non-point source pollution prevention measures in pursuit of an improved Baltic Sea marine environment. \n\n2003 Frantschach Swiecie SA, Poland\nFrantschach Swiecie SA, a pulp and paper industry in Poland, received the award for contributions which have had a clear and positive effect on the environment and the Baltic Sea. Through facility improvements utilising best available technologies (BATs), Frantschach Swiecie achieved considerable reduction in pollutants discharged to the Vistula River and the Baltic Sea.\n\n2002 The Lithuanian Housing and Urban Development Foundation\nThe Lithuanian Housing and Urban Development Foundation was honored for its innovative programs and projects that have contributed to a considerable reduction of Lithuania’s organic pollution to the Baltic Sea. The overall approach can serve as a model for other regions in the Baltic Sea area. \n\n2001 Mr. Leonid Korovin from St. Petersburg, Russia\nMr. Korvin was honored for his commendable contribution to the development of a series of activities aiming to safeguard the water environment in the part of the Baltic Sea nearest to the St. Petersburg area, which emits very large amounts of pollutants into the Baltic Sea. \n\n2000 The City of Gdansk, Poland\nThe City of Gdansk was honored for being the driving force behind the establishment of the Wschod wastewater treatment works, which receives and cleans wastewater from Gdansk and four other Polish cities and populated areas. The Wschod works has had a very clear, positive effect on the water quality in the Bay of Gdansk, a part of the Baltic Sea. \n\n1999 PURAC of Poland\nPURAC of Poland won the first Swedish Baltic Sea Water Award by building several new, advanced wastewater and water treatment plants along major rivers running into the Baltic Sea. These projects have helped to improve the marine environment in the Baltic Sea.\n\n"}
{"id": "493094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=493094", "title": "The Rise of Christianity", "text": "The Rise of Christianity\n\nThe Rise of Christianity (subtitled either A Sociologist Reconsiders History or How the Obscure, Marginal Jesus Movement Became the Dominant Religious Force in the Western World in a Few Centuries, depending on the edition), is a book by the sociologist Rodney Stark, which examines the rise of Christianity, from a small movement in Galilee and Judea at the (supposed) time of Jesus to the majority religion of the Roman Empire a few centuries later.\n\nStark argues that contrary to popular belief, Christianity was not a movement of the lower classes and the oppressed but instead of the upper and middle classes in the cities and of Hellenized Jews. Stark also discusses the exponential nature of the growth of religion.\n\nStark points to a number of advantages that Christianity had over paganism to explain its growth:\n\n\nStark's basic thesis is that, ultimately, Christianity triumphed over paganism because it improved the quality of life of its adherents at that time.\n\n\"Stark has produced a provocative, insightful, challenging account of the rise of Christianity. The thesis—that Christianity was a success because it provided those who joined it with a more appealing, more assuring, happier, and perhaps longer life—may anger many readers and force all readers to stop and think. It is a marvelous exercise in the sociological imagination and a warning to those who like simple explanations--such as that Constantine was ultimately responsible for the success of Christianity when he made it the official religion of the Roman Empire\" (Andrew M. Greeley, National Opinion Research Center, University of Chicago).\n\n\"For years, biblical scholars and church historians have used sociological jargon to promote ideological views. Now an established sociologist has entered the fray with devastating results. This brilliant and highly provocative book will revolutionize the way people think about both biblical studies and church history. Love it or hate it, Rodney Stark's \"The Rise of Christianity\" is a book nobody interested in the study of religion can ignore\" (Irving Hexham, University of Calgary).\n\nThis book prominently featured within the storyline of \"Hidden Empire\" by Orson Scott Card, according to the book's afterword, and \"The Rise of Christianity\" even inspired the book's plot.\n\n"}
{"id": "5810755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5810755", "title": "Turkey slap", "text": "Turkey slap\n\nTurkey slap is a sexual behaviour in which a male slaps a partner's face repeatedly with his penis. While the act of hitting another's face with the penis can be a sexual act, the term \"turkey slap\" refers to the act when performed in a non-sexual way either playfully or to shame, degrade or harass the victim. More recently this has been popularized in the Netherlands in the form of swaffelen. \n\nThe term gained notoriety in Australia during 2006, after two male contestants in the \"Big Brother\" reality TV series performed the act on a female housemate. In the ensuing controversy, the male housemates were expelled from the house and contest for violating the show's terms of agreement.\n\n"}
{"id": "13243656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13243656", "title": "Women in Hungary", "text": "Women in Hungary\n\nThe roles of women in Hungary have changed significantly over the past 200 years. Historically, in the present day territory of Hungary, discourses on women’s roles, rights, and political access, along with feminist movements, have developed within the context of extremely traditional gender roles that were influenced by Roman Catholicism, Lutheranism and Calvinism. More recently, the Communist doctrine on women’s place in society was also influential. The post-communist era in Hungary has produced a number of organizations to address the needs of the nation’s women and mobilize female voters, and several universities now have gender studies programs. In the 21st century, the entry in the European Union has led to a more 'Westernized' culture.\nIn 1790, a man named Péter Bárány petitioned the National Gathering of Hungarian Noblemen to grant female nobles the right to observe the Gathering's proceedings. He argued that these women would be better prepared to raise politically active, patriotic sons, but the assembly did not accept his petition. The first women’s organization to form in Hungary was the Pester Women's Charitable Society, founded in 1817; by the end of the nineteenth century there were several hundred similar organizations throughout the kingdom, although, for the most part, they had little involvement in politics. When women gained access to secondary education in the mid-nineteenth century, the large presence of active women’s groups helped win the students a more academic curriculum, rather than one that focused on being a wife and mother. In 1895, women were first allowed to study philosophy, medicine, and pharmacy at the university level.\n\nIn addition to the advocacy of women’s groups, these advances were due, in part, to the Hungarian push to elevate its status as a power in the Austrian-Hungarian Empire, and present itself as an increasingly modernized region.\n\nIn 1904, Rózsika Bédy-Schwimmer (Rosika Schwimmer), a pacifist and women’s rights advocate, founded the Association of Feminists. The group pushed for women's suffrage and helped bring the issue to a parliamentary vote on three separate occasions, although each attempt was unsuccessful. The Men's League for Women's Suffrage was founded in 1910, and in 1913 the 7th Congress of the International Women's Suffrage Alliance met in Budapest. The Association of Feminists worked closely with the city council of Budapest to establish a women's aid office and day care centers; they also published a journal on women's issues that helped to raise public awareness of women's concerns. Other groups active in the early twentieth century included female members of the Social Democrats, and the National Federation of Women Clerical Workers, which sought improvements in the rights of female professionals.\n\nFollowing World War I, an independent Hungary began to define itself in a “national framework,” and the women’s movement shifted to fit into this new framework effectively.\n\nFollowing the brief Communist seizure of power by Béla Kun in 1919, feminist groups, and other organizations considered revolutionary, became smaller, covert, and less influential; finding themselves in similar circumstances, some feminists, Communists, and other radicals formed working relationships. Hungarian women won partial suffrage and the right to serve in parliament, while the emergence of a party system of government gave women a new, socially accepted avenue for recognition and involvement. Women were particularly active in the National Unity Party and the Christian Women’s Camp. As their political opportunities expanded, Hungarian women were simultaneously gaining attention and support in a very traditional role: as mothers and caretakers of the nation’s children. Beginning in 1941, women’s groups began to diverge further, due mainly to political events leading up to World War II.\n\nWomen attained limited suffrage in 1918 (voting for the first time in 1922); and full suffrage in 1945, but as in other communist states, civil rights of both men and women were symbolic, as the system was an authoritarian one. During the communist era, women were members of the parliament (they made up 18% of members in 1949 and 30% in 1980), but this was merely for the facade, as they had little power in practice, with the key players deciding policies being men. Hungary held its first free elections after the fall of communism, and only 7% of the elected members were women in 1990. As of 2014, women made up 10.1% of the parliament.\n\nWomen were seen as a vital part of the productivity of the state, both as mothers and wives of male workers, and as workers themselves. Although women were included in the workforce in a more equal way under communist rule, they generally were placed under greater state control with regard to their personal freedoms, especially concerning reproductive rights, sexuality, and family life. Despite the official discourse on equality, the communist regime did not seek to genuinely address the deep social fabric of gender subordination. Nevertheless, women did see some gains under communism, despite remaining subordinate to men; they received greater access to secondary and university education, especially in technical fields.\n\nBeginning in 1989, women’s and feminist groups formed and established strong organizations which have worked to address the needs of Hungarian women. The post-communist economy has been particularly hard on blue-collar women who, in addition to providing income, are responsible for maintaining a home and caring for the family. Another important issue for women in the early 1990s was the restriction of abortion rights by conservative political parties. The Feminist Network, which emerged in May 1990, has been a leader in carrying on the movement for women’s equality, and the Federation of Young Democrats has been an important political party for female youth and women’s movements. The issue of domestic violence has also come to public attention during the past two decades; an important change was the removal of the marital exemption from the rape law in 1997. Hungary has also ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings in 2013.\n\nAs in most other European countries, in the 21st century, family dynamics have become more liberal, with cohabitation growing in popularity, and the link between fertility and marriage decreasing. In 2015, 47.9% of births were to unmarried women. Hungary has a sub-replacement fertility rate; the total fertility rate (TFR) was 1.43 children born/woman in 2015. The maternal mortality rate in Hungary is 21 deaths/100,000 live births (as of 2010).\n\n"}
{"id": "39665302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39665302", "title": "Women in Venezuela", "text": "Women in Venezuela\n\nWomen in Venezuela are South American women who live in or are from Venezuela. The roles of Venezuelan women may differ in urban and rural areas. By tradition, women perform household work and they may accept jobs related to domestic services. In rural areas, Venezuelan women share \"demanding physical labor\" with men. Due to the rise of the beauty pageant industry, Venezuelan women have become highly regarded as objects of beauty and sexuality. \n\nAlthough women are legally equal to men in Venezuela, the women of Venezuela live in a patriarchal society where machismo is prevalent. However, in recent years, Venezuelan won essential part of the general Venezuelan workforce outside the confines of the home. The professional women and businesswomen of Venezuela generally \"work hard at looking great\" and they \"dress to impress\"; their business dress include wearing feminine attire. \n\nVenezuelan women are characteristically outgoing. Women greet men and each other by giving one kiss on the right cheek. On the other hand, due to Venezuelan men's \"public expression of machismo\", women in Venezuelan society are \"customarily showered with remarks and gazes from men\" as a form of displaying admiration of female beauty. Venezuelan women normally ignore such male behavior.\n\nCohabitation is widespread in Venezuela, having increased in past decades. Family law was overhauled in 1982 providing gender equality in marriage. \n\nViolence against women is a serious problem in Venezuela. In 2007, the country enacted \"Ley Organica Sobre el Derecho de las Mujeres a una Vida Libre de Violencia\" (Organic Law on the Right of Women to a Life Free of Violence).\n\n\n"}
