{"id": "9833057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9833057", "title": "2007 Somali National Reconciliation Conference", "text": "2007 Somali National Reconciliation Conference\n\nThe 2007 Somali National Reconciliation Conference was held from 15 July 2007 until 30 August 2007 in Mogadishu; it was announced on 1 March 2007 by Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed, the President of the Transitional Federal Government (TFG).\n\nMore than 3,000 people from all of Somalia's regions and clans as well as from the Somali diaspora participated. The United States had announced their support for the conference. Moderate Islamists in exile in Eritrea had also been invited, but had refused to attend.\n\nIt was originally planned to be held from 16 April until mid-June, but was postponed thrice, first to 15 May 2007, then to 14 June 2007 and finally to 15 July 2007.\n\nWhen the conference finally opened on 15 July 2007, it immediately adjourned until 19 July 2007 to allow for more delegates to arrive, since the moderate Islamists had not yet ended their boycott of the conference. The conference building was being attacked with mortars on that date, as well, and again on 17 July 2007.\n\nThe conference eventually opened for real on 19 July 2007; however, moderate Islamists and Hawiye clan elders still boycotted it, claiming that the venue were not neutral. Islamists have scheduled a conference in Asmara instead.\n\nThere was an 11-point program to be discussed at the conference, including the holding of elections. According to commentators, little was achieved at the conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57577330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57577330", "title": "2013 Belfast riots", "text": "2013 Belfast riots\n\n\"This article covers rioting in July and August. For riots linked to the City Hall protests, see Belfast City Hall flag protests.\"\n\nThe 2013 Belfast riots was a series of riots taking place in Belfast in Northern Ireland. They came months after the Belfast City Hall flag protests ignited rioting.\n\nRioting broke out following the 12 July Orange Order parade, when local Orangemen were barred from returning via their traditional route via the Catholic-populated Ardoyne in north Belfast, which ignited protests from loyalists. Trouble also spread to south and east Belfast.\n\nThe Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) fired about 20 plastic baton rounds at rioters and used two mobile water cannons. For several hours they dealt with loyalists and nationalists exchanging missiles across the police line, and at one point a group of loyalists used ceremonial swords to attack the police lines. Nigel Dodds, the unionist MP for Belfast North, was injured and hospitalised when struck in the head by a missile when he was trying to negotiate with police officers in Woodvale Avenue. 32 officers were hurt.\n\nThe PSNI Chief Constable called 400 extra police officers from England, Scotland and Wales to deal with the situation - more than 600 from the British mainland were already supporting the PSNI beforehand. It was an unprecedented move - in the past, and during the Troubles, the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC) never called in extra police but used the British Army soldiers, who withdrew from Northern Ireland in 2007. By the end of August, 106 arrests were made and 77 were charged.\n\nViolent clashes broke out on the evening of Friday 9 August when loyalists attempted to prevent a parade of 5,000 Irish republican marking the anniversary of internment in 1971 through the city centre. The parade was a joint alliance of dissident groups which included the 32 County Sovereignty Movement, the political wing of the New IRA. It was legally given permission but up to 1,000 loyalists blocked their route at around 6 pm and attacked riot police around Royal Avenue/North Street, and clashes between loyalists and nationalists took place.\n\nBy an hour later, PSNI officers and armoured vehicles blocked the republican parade in North Queen Street in New Lodge. This would become a second stand-off from the one around Royal Avenue involving loyalists. The parade organisers decided to avoid Royal Avenue and take a route via Carrick Hill and Millfield, near the city centre, towards west Belfast. \"Serious disorder\" took place on these roads as riot police separated the two groups. The protesters were then pushed back towards the Shankill Road area.\n\nThe PSNI fired 26 plastic baton rounds and deployed two water cannons. Michael Copeland, an Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) politician, claimed that he and his family members were assaulted by police in Royal Avenue. In total, 56 police officers and two civilians were injured.\n\nNorthern Ireland Secretary Theresa Villiers described the violence as \"shameful\". Within four days the PSNI arrested 90 people of which 66 were charged, and released photos of other wanted offenders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1999955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999955", "title": "Academy (English school)", "text": "Academy (English school)\n\nAcademy schools are state-funded schools in England which are directly funded by the Department for Education and independent of local authority control. The terms of the arrangements are set out in individual Academy Funding Agreements.\nMost academies are secondary schools (and most secondary schools are academies). However, slightly more than 25% of primary schools (4,363 as of December 2017), as well as some of the remaining first, middle and secondary schools, are also academies.\n\nAcademies are self-governing non-profit charitable trusts and may receive additional support from personal or corporate sponsors, either financially or in kind. They do not have to follow the National Curriculum, but do have to ensure that their curriculum is broad and balanced, and that it includes the core subjects of mathematics and English. They are subject to inspection by Ofsted.\n\nThe following are all types of academy:\n\nAn academy trust that operates more than one academy is known as an Academy Chain, although sometimes the terms Academy Group or Academy Federation are used instead. An Academy Chain is a group of schools working together under a shared academy structure that is either an Umbrella Trust or a Multi-Academy Trust (MAT).\n\nAn academy is governed by the Academy Agreement it makes with the Department for Education, and at that point it severs connections with the local education authority. The current advisory text is the \"Academy and free school: master funding agreement\" dated March 2018. The governors of the academy are obliged to publish an annual report and accounts, that are open to scrutiny.\n\nAll academies are expected to follow a broad and balanced curriculum but many have a particular focus on, or formal specialism in, one or more areas such as science; arts; business and enterprise; computing; engineering; mathematics; modern foreign languages; performing arts; sport; or technology. Although academies are required to follow the National Curriculum in the core subjects of maths, English and science, they are otherwise free to innovate; however, as they participate in the same Key Stage 3 and GCSE exams as other English schools, they teach a curriculum very similar to maintained schools, with only small variations.\n\nLike other state-funded schools, academies are required to adhere to the National Admissions Code, although newly established academies with a faith designation are subject to the 50% Rule requiring them to allocate at least half of their places without reference to faith.\n\nIn terms of their governance, academies are established as companies limited by guarantee with a Board of Directors that acts as a Trust. The Academy Trust has exempt charity status, regulated by the Department for Education. The trustees are legally, but not financially, accountable for the operation of the academy. The Trust serves as the legal entity of which the school is part. The trustees oversee the running of the school, sometimes delegating responsibility to a local governing body which they appoint. The day-to-day management of the school is, as in most schools, conducted by the Head Teacher and their senior management team.\n\nIn Sponsored Academies, the sponsor is able to influence the process of establishing the school, including its curriculum, ethos, specialism and building (if a new one is built). The sponsor also has the power to appoint governors to the academy's governing body.\n\nThe Labour Government under Tony Blair established academies through the Learning and Skills Act 2000, which amended the section of the Education Act 1996 relating to City Technology Colleges. They were first announced in a speech by David Blunkett, then Secretary of State for Education and Skills, in 2000. He said that their aim was \"to improve pupil performance and break the cycle of low expectations.\" As of 2018 many academies are struggling financially and running deficits.\n\nThe chief architect of the policy was Andrew Adonis (now Lord Adonis, formerly Secretary of State at the Department for Transport) in his capacity as education advisor to the Prime Minister in the late 1990s.\n\nAcademies were known as City Academies for the first few years, but the term was changed to Academies by an amendment in the Education Act 2002. The term Sponsored Academies was applied retrospectively to this type of academy, to distinguish it from other types of academy that were enabled later.\n\nSponsored Academies originally needed a \"private\" sponsor who could be an individual (such as Sir David Garrard, who sponsors Business Academy Bexley), organisations such as the United Learning Trust, mission-driven businesses such as The Co-operative Group or outsourcing for-profit businesses such as Amey plc). These sponsors were expected to bring \"the best of private-sector best practice and innovative management\" to academies, \"often in marked contrast to the lack of leadership experienced by the failing schools that academies have replaced\" (known as predecessor schools). They were originally required to contribute 10% of the academy's capital costs (up to a maximum of £2m). The remainder of the capital and running costs were met by the state in the usual way for UK state schools through grants funded by the local authority.\n\nThe Government later removed the requirement for financial investment by a private sponsor in a move to encourage successful existing schools and charities to become sponsors.\n\nSponsored Academies typically replaced one or more existing schools, but some were newly established. They were intended to address the problem of entrenched failure within English schools with low academic achievement, or schools situated in communities with low academic aspirations. Often these schools had been placed in \"special measures\" after an Ofsted inspection, as has been the case for schools in the Co-op Academies Trust (one of the larger business-supported trusts). They were expected to be creative and innovative because of their financial and academic freedoms, in order to deal with the long-term issues they were intended to solve.\n\nOriginally all Sponsored Academies had to have a curriculum specialism within the English Specialist Schools Programme (SSP). However, this requirement was removed in 2010.\n\nBy May 2010 there were 203 Sponsored Academies in England.\n\nThe Academies Act 2010 sought to increase the number of academies. It enabled all maintained schools to convert to academy status, known as Converter Academies and enabled new academies to be created via the Free School Programme.\n\nAt the same time the new Conservative-led Coalition Government announced that they would redirect funding for school Specialisms [i.e. Technology College Status] into mainstream funding. This meant that Secondary Schools would no longer directly receive ring-fenced funds of c£130K from Government for each of their specialisms. One way to regain some direct control over their finances was to become a Converter Academy and receive all of their funding direct from Government, with the possibility of buying in services at a cheaper rate. This, along with some schools wanting more independence from local authority control, meant that many state secondary schools in England converted to academy status in subsequent years.\n\nBy April 2011, the number of academies had increased to 629, and by August 2011, reached 1,070. By July 2012 this number reached 1,957, double that of the previous year. and, at 1 November 2013, it stood at 3,444.\n\nThere are no academies in Wales or Scotland, where education policy is devolved.\n\nThe Education Funding Agency monitors financial management and governance of academies. In March 2016 the Perry Beeches The Academy Trust, a multi-academy trust, was found to have deleted financial records for £2.5 million of free school meal funding, and that the chief executive was being paid by sub-contractors as well as by the trust. Its schools are likely to be taken over by a new trust. In August 2016, the former principal and founder of Kings Science Academy, the former finance director, and a former teacher who was the founder's sister were found guilty of defrauding public funds of £150,000.\n\nIn October 2017, the Wakefield City Academies Trust collapsed, and \"The Observer\" reported that \"Wakefield City Academies Trust now stands accused of 'asset stripping” after it transferred millions of pounds of the schools’ savings to its own accounts before collapsing. On 8 September it released a statement announcing it would divest itself of its 21 schools as it could not undertake the ´rapid improvement our academies need' \".\n\nWhilst still in the fairly early stage of development, supporters pointed to emerging data showing \"striking\" improvements in GCSE results for academies compared to their predecessors, with early results showing that \"GCSE results are improving twice as fast in academies as in state schools\".\n\nIn an article in \"The Observer\", that regarded many of the Government's claims for academies with scepticism, journalist Geraldine Bedell conceded that:\n\nThe article singles out the cited academy, Mossbourne Community Academy in Hackney, as \"apparently the most popular [school] in Britain – at least with politicians\" and \"the top school in the country for value-added results\".\n\nAcademies have continued to be controversial, and their existence has frequently been opposed and challenged by some politicians, commentators, teachers, teachers' unions, and parents. Even after several years of operation and with a number of academies open and reporting successes, the programme continues to come under attack for creating schools that are said to be, among other things, a waste of money, selective, damaging to the schools and communities around them, forced on parents who do not want them, and a move towards privatisation of education \"by the back door\".\n\nThe introduction of academy schools was opposed, notably by teachers' trade unions and some high-profile members within the Labour Party, such as former party leader Lord Kinnock. Neil Kinnock criticised the academies scheme saying that they were a \"distortion of choice\" and risked creating a \"seller's market\" with \"schools selecting parents and children instead of parents selecting schools\".\n\nThe House of Commons Education and Skills Select Committee reported in March 2005 that it would have been wiser to limit the programme to 30 or 50 academies in order to evaluate the results before expanding the programme, and that \"the rapid expansion of the Academy policy comes at the expense of rigorous evaluation\". The Select Committee was concerned that the promising results achieved by some academies may be due to increased exclusions of harder-to-teach pupils. They noted that two Middlesbrough academies had expelled 61 pupils, compared to just 15 from all other secondary schools in the borough.\n\nThe programme of creating academies has also been heavily criticised by some for handing schools to private sector entrepreneurs who in many cases have no experience of the education sector – most infamously, the Evangelical Christian car dealer, Sir Peter Vardy, who has been accused of promoting the teaching of creationism alongside macroevolution in his Emmanuel Schools Foundation academies. This is also linked to the wider debate in the education sector as to the benefits or otherwise of the growing role of religion in the school system being promoted by the New Labour government in general, and Tony Blair in particular, with many academies (one estimate puts it at \"more than half\") being sponsored either by religious groups or organisations/individuals with a religious affiliation.\n\nThere are indications that several city academies are failing. Ofsted has placed the Unity City Academy in Middlesbrough and the Richard Rose Central Academy in Carlisle under special measures, heavily criticised the West London Academy in Ealing and condemned standards at the Business Academy in Bexley, Kent.\n\nThe Richard Rose Central Academy in Carlisle, sponsored by Eddie Stobart owner Andrew Tinkler, and local businessman Brian Scowcroft opened in September 2008. By January 2009, there were protests by parents and pupils regarding poor quality education and school facilities. The school was found to be failing and was placed in special measures, with the headmaster and chief executive being immediately replaced.\n\nA parliamentary report in 2015, entitled \"Free Schools and Academies\", recommends that \"In the meantime the Government should stop exaggerating the success of academies and be cautious about firm conclusions except where the evidence merits it. Academisation is not always successful nor is it the only proven alternative for a struggling school\". In 2016 a major study by the Education Policy Institute found no significant differences in performance between Academies and local council run schools, and that multi-academy trusts running at least five schools performed worse than local council run schools. \n\nThe original City Academy programme was attacked for its expense: it cost on average £25m to build an academy under this scheme, much of which was taken up by the costs of new buildings. Critics contend that this is significantly more than it costs to build a new local authority school. Some operators are paying senior staff six-figure salaries, partly funded by central government.\n\nIn 2012, the academy scheme was applied to primary schools. The government began transforming some schools that had been graded Satisfactory or lower by Ofsted into academies, in some cases removing existing governing bodies and Head Teachers. An example was Downhills Primary School in Haringey, where the Head resisted turning the school into an academy. Ofsted were called in to assess the school, and placed it in Special Measures. The head and the Governing Body were removed and replaced with a Government-appointed board. There was opposition from the school and parents.\n\nIn December 2012, the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons questioned Henry Stewart, of the Local Schools Network, and Rachel Wolf, of the New Schools Network, on accountability and funding of academies and free schools. The Committee was review a report by the Auditor General, \"Managing the Expansion of the Academies Programme\" (HC 682), which had identified that in 2011-12 had been diverted from supporting under-performing Local Authority schools to the academies programme, followed by a further in the financial year 2012-13. The Committee also questioned Chris Wormald, then Permanent Secretary at the Department for Education, who admitted that the Government had deliberately chosen to remove money originally allocated to support under performing schools. Chris Wormald stated, \"The Government took a very conscious decision that its major school improvement programme was the academies programme.\"\n\nThe Conservative Party has supported the academy proposal from its inception but wants the scheme to go further. This accord was reflected in a remark made by Conservative spokesman David Willetts in 2006:\n\nIn 2004, the Liberal Democrats were reported as being \"split\" on the issue and so decided that academies should not be mentioned in the party's education policy. The position of Phil Willis, the education spokesman at the time, was summarised as:\n\nIn 2005, Willis' successor, Ed Davey, argued that academies were creating a \"two-tier education system\" and called for the academy programme to be halted until \"a proper analysis can be done\". At the subsequent election, Academies were supported by all three main political parties, with a further cross-party initiative to extend the programme into primary schools currently being considered.\n\nIn 2010 the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats coalition government announced plans to expand the academy programme with the Academies Act 2010. In May 2010 the then Education secretary Michael Gove wrote to all state schools in England inviting them to opt out of Local Authority control and convert to Academy status. Gove also stated that some academies could be created in time for the new Academic year in September 2010. By 23 July 2010, 153 schools in England had applied for academy status, lower than the prediction that more than 1,000 would do so. In spite of the expanding Academy programme, in August 2010 Gove announced that 75 existing academy rebuild projects were likely to be scaled back. Nevertheless, by September 2012, the majority of state secondary schools in England had become Academies. Monthly updated information on existing academies and free schools, and applications in process, is published by the Department for Education.\n\nThe city academy programme was originally based on the programme of City Technology Colleges (CTCs) created by the Conservative government under Margaret Thatcher in the 1980s, which were also business-sponsored.\n\nFrom 2003, the Government encouraged CTCs to convert to academies; did so (for example, Djanogly CTC is now Djanogly City Academy) was a 2003 conversion.\n\nAcademies differ from CTCs in several ways; most notably, academies cannot select more than 10% of pupils by ability , whereas CTCs can.\n\nAcademies have been compared to US charter schools, which are publicly funded schools largely independent of state and federal control.\n\nA number of private and charitable organisations run groups of academies. These major operators include ARK Schools, Academies Enterprise Trust, E-ACT (formerly Edutrust Academies Charitable Trust), Emmanuel Schools Foundation, Harris Federation, Oasis Trust, Ormiston Academies Trust, Tauheedul Education Trust and United Learning Trust.\n\nThe Department for Education publishes a full list of active academy sponsors.\n\nIn September 2017, the Wakefield City Academies Trust announced it was winding down and ceasing to trade as it hadn't the capacity to manage its 21 schools and asked the government to make an alternative arrangement.\n\nIn January 2018, concern was expressed that MATs were not always delivering the results that the government had hoped for. A league table was produced to name and shame the worst performers using the Progress 8 benchmark, which measures GCSE results after compensating for each pupil's performance at the end of Key Stage 2.\n\nIt is not just academically where multi-academy trusts are failing. They fail in staff remuneration, being exempt from all Teacher Pay and Conditions agreements. In March 2018, the Guardian revealed that they fail in gender equality.\n\nThe study reveals several trusts where women face hourly pay deficit of more than 50%. The worst offender is Schoolsworks Academy Trust, West Sussex where the median hourly pay gap in favour of men is 62% – meaning that a woman is paid 38 pence for every £1 earned by a man. The Wakefield City Academies Trust, which managed 21 schools before its collapse, had a median hourly gender pay gap of 52%. The Kent Catholic Schools Partnership staff face a gender pay gap of almost 50%.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10706606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10706606", "title": "Alexey Peshekhonov", "text": "Alexey Peshekhonov\n\nAlexey Vasilyevich Peshekhonov () (February 2, 1867 (January 21 old style) – April 3, 1933) was a Russian economist, publicist, and statistician. He was a member of the Russian provisional government as a minister of food supplies for some months in the summer of 1917.\n\nPeshekhonov was a self-educated social activist. Enrolled early in a Tver seminary for priests, he was expelled for political activity at age 17 (in 1884), and seems to have had no further formal training. He was strongly influenced by the \"narodnik\" philosopher N.K. Mikhailovsky. After military service 1888 to 1891, he worked first as a village teacher and later as a statistician for the Tver and Orla zemstvo councils, then the Kaluga province zemstvo administration where he became head of the statistical service (1896-1898). During this period he published noted studies on rural life that earned him entry into employment as a journalist in St. Petersburg (1899). He was also during this period several times arrested for his political activities, imprisoned or banished from his place of residence.\n\nAround the turn of the century, in addition to his journalism, Peshekhonov became increasingly active in the left-liberal political world - i.e., he was co-founder in 1903 of a \"Union for Liberation\" (Soiuz osvobozhdeniia). He was also briefly a member of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party but objected to its use of terror. In 1906, he co-founded, with N.F. Annensky, V.A. Miakotin and others, the Popular Socialist Party (NSP). After the \"Bloody Sunday\" events of January 1905, he was locked up in the Peter and Paul Fortress, then banished until October of that year, and again arrested for several months in 1906. During the following years, Peshekhonov published several books on agrarian, economic and political issues.\n\nIn February 1917 Peshekhonov assumed leading roles as an NS delegate in the Petrograd Soviet of Worker's and Soldier's Deputies, with strong engagement on agrarian issues. He favoured co-operation of the Soviet with the (Kadet) Provisional Government, and in May 1917 joined the coalition government then formed as minister of food supplies. In October, he was deputy chairman of the pre-parliament council, and after the Bolshevik seizure of power joined the left-center opposition. In 1921 he played a leading role in organising famine relief for Russia.\n\nIn the fall of 1922, Peshekhonov was included in the list of intellectuals to be exiled abroad by a Central Committee decree (although he does not seem to have travelled on the famous \"Philosophers' ships\" that took the bulk of them to Germany). Exiled against his will, more left-wing than most of his co-expellees, Peshekhonov unhappily pursued his economic and political studies in Berlin and Prague, but repeatedly applied for permission to return to the Soviet Union. This was never granted, but eventually he was given a post as a consultant to the Soviet Trade Mission in Riga, where he died in 1933. His remains were permitted to return and buried in Leningrad.\n\n"}
{"id": "50032286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50032286", "title": "Amos Hochstein", "text": "Amos Hochstein\n\nAmos J. Hochstein (born January 4, 1973) is a U.S. businessman, former diplomat, lobbyist, and national security and energy expert. He has worked in the U.S. Congress, has testified before congressional panels and has served under the Barack Obama administration under Secretaries of State Clinton and Kerry. He was appointed Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in 2011 and as Special Envoy and Coordinator for International Energy Affairs. In 2015, President Barack Obama nominated Hochstein to be the Assistant Secretary of State for Energy Ressources.\n\nWhile at the State Department, Hochstein worked as a close advisor to Vice-President Joe Biden. He served in the administration from 2011 to 2017.\n\nIn March 2017, he joined Tellurian, a private Houston-based LNG company, where he serves as Senior Vice President Marketing. He serves on the supervisory board of Naftogaz as well as the Board's of the Atlantic Council and U.S.-India Business Council.\n\nHochstein began his career in Washington, D.C. on Capitol Hill where he first served on the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs staff. In subsequent years he served in a variety of senior level positions, including the House International Relations Committee, where he served as Senior Policy Advisor. In 1997 he later was sent to North Korea to report on the country's economic and military status as well as the progress and opportunities for humanitarian relief efforts.\n\nLater, Hochstein served as the Senior Policy Advisor to the Foreign Affairs Committee of the U.S. House of Representatives. Hochstein first served as the principal Democratic staff person on the Economic Policy, Trade & Environment Subcommittee where he oversaw work authorizing Ex-Im Bank, OPIC and USTDA, as well as drafting legislation on export controls and trade-related multilateral organizations and regimes.\n\nHochstein also worked as a Senior Policy Advisor to then-Governor Mark Warner, and later as Policy Director for Senator Chris Dodd. He joined Dodd's team in the beginning of 2007 and was the Policy Director during his 2008 Presidential campaign.\n\nHochstein was also an aide to Representative Sam Gejdenson.\n\nHochstein later moved to the private sector as Executive Vice President of International Operations at Cassidy & Associates. Throughout his career, he was a counselor and lobbyist for both domestic and international oil and gas companies, as well as companies focusing on renewable energy. In this capacity, he assisted corporations in assessing potential new markets and the development of alternative sources of power.\n\nWhile working at Cassidy & Associates, Hochstein also worked on the account of the President of Equatorial Guinea, Teodoro Obiang Nguema, Africa's longest serving dictator, to improve the relationship with the United States. In his book \"Private Empire: ExxonMobil and American Power\", two times Pulitzer Prize winner Steve Coll recounts, that while Hochstein initially was uncomfortable with the Equatorial Guinea account, he assisted in the development of a \"road map\" of political changes together with the U.S. National Security Council, that Equatorial Guinea would have to implement in order to display their political sincerity to change and to improve relations with the United States. The outlines involved prisoner releases, substantial public investments in health care and education and Hochstein coordinated the communication of these points with and between Equatorial Guinea's leadership and the State Department. Hochstein and others, among them Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Paul Wolfowitz, said they were convinced by Obiang's will to change and adapt. Equatorial Guinea under the Obiang regime remains by many accounts one of the world's least free countries. Hochstein defended the Obiang regime in an interview with the Washington Post. He stated that the development and support of the democratic process in countries like Equatorial Guinea must be supported and that Western states cannot expect changes of long-standing political realities overnight. Eventually Hochstein resigned from the lobbying account but continued to work for Cassidy until 2006.\n\nHochstein began working at the U.S. Department of State in 2011, joining the newly formed Bureau of Energy Resources. Serving as deputy to Special Envoy Carlos Pascual, Hochstein worked to help Ukraine find new supplies of natural gas in the wake of the 2014 Russian invasion.\n\nHe oversaw the Office of Middle East, Asia and Europe, the Western Hemisphere and Africa. Hochstein led the energy related diplomacy efforts.\n\nOn August 1, 2014, Hochstein succeeded Carlos Pascual as acting Special Envoy and Coordinator of International Energy Affairs, and was permanently appointed to the position later in the year by Secretary Kerry. As the Special Envoy, Hochstein oversaw the Bureau of Energy Resources and advised Secretary of State John Kerry on global energy security and diplomacy, as well as integration of renewable and clean energy and related security matters. He also worked closely with officials at the White House's National Security Council and other government agencies.\n\nIn his capacity as the U.S.'s Chief Energy Diplomat, Hochstein had an important role in shaping foreign energy and security policy and worked closely with U.S. Vice President Joe Biden, accompanying him on international travel and advancing energy as a key US foreign policy tool. Hochstein and Biden worked together on the Caribbean Energy Security Initiative, Central America Energy Security Task Force, Cyprus and East Mediterranean, as well as securing Ukraine and Europe from Russian energy dominance.\n\nHochstein encouraged European countries to find new oil, gas, coal, and nuclear sources, to alleviate their dependence on Russian energy. In response to President Vladimir Putin's plans for new gas pipelines to bypass an existing transit coordinator through Ukraine towards Greece and Italy, Hochstein described the plans as \"political projects that have questionable economic value\" to the European energy market. He has also stated that the U.S.'s position isn't to exclude Russia from the European market entirely, but rather that Russia should be an equal player, remarking that \"European countries should be able to choose their supplier and force their suppliers to compete for their business. That is what is good for energy security of Europe, economic security and ultimately for the national security of those countries involved.\"\n\nHochstein has also been involved in the U.S. front against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, specifically cutting their oil revenues by disrupting their production lines. Hochstein oversaw the U.S. efforts to cripple Islamic State's energy business by weakening oil trade between ISIS, the Syrian government and other parties. His team coordinated with the U.S. Department of Defense to determine targets. Airstrikes subsequently blew up over 1,000 tanker trucks and other key targets. In a testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Hochstein described the military actions as \"not only more bombings, but a different kind of bombing.\"\n\nHochstein’s energy diplomacy efforts in the Middle East have been critical. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu cited Hochstein’s work as helping to provide an incentive for the renewed relationship between Israel and Turkey. This followed his work to revive efforts to settle maritime border dispute between Lebanon and Israel. At the conclusion of his visit, Hochstein made statements stressing his visit was to discuss delayed gas exploration in Lebanon. The previous year, 2014, Hochstein helped “pave the way” for the $500 million natural gas agreement between Israel and Jordan visiting Jordan 14 times and was, alongside Israel’s former President Shimon Peres, a \"key broker\" for the gas export deal. This agreement concluded an effort that Secretary of State Clinton began in 2011.\n\nIn response to Russian officials claiming that the Turkish government was illegally buying oil from the Islamic State, Hochstein dismissed these claims, saying that \"I do not believe there is significant smuggling between ISIL-controlled areas and Turkey of oil of any significant volume.\"\n\nHochstein has also worked on multilateral energy affairs, meeting with Urban Rusnák, Secretary-General of the Energy Charter Conference, to discuss progress on the Energy Charter Process, discussing the advance of clean energy investments and energy security with government officials in India and meeting several other state leaders and government officials to coordinate energy and security matters with states like Azerbaijan and Saudi Arabia and other states in the Middle East.\n\nOn October 8, 2015, President Barack Obama nominated Hochstein to be the Assistant Secretary of State for Energy Resources, the official chief position for the bureau. Hochstein continued his efforts in all previously engaged fields of national and international energy and security matters, including Iran sanctions, energy opportunities in Latin America, the US-India energy cooperation, the US-China energy cooperation, the administration’s strategy on Russia, and the fight against ISIS.\n\nHe also was involved in discussing and mapping out details of the Southern Gas Corridor project generally and the Trans Adriatic Pipeline with Greece specifically.\n\nHe authored the White House Caribbean Energy Security Initiative and chaired President Obama's U.S.-Caribbean and U.S.-Central America Energy Security Task Force. He also continued to lead U.S. efforts to promote global fuel switching to natural gas and develop stronger natural gas markets in Asia and South Asia. He headed the State Department's Unconventional Gas Technical Engagement Program, formerly known as Global Shale Gas Initiative.\n\nHe was succeeded by Frank R. Fannon, now Assistant Secretary of State for Energy Resources.\n\nSince leaving the White House, Hochstein appeared on a Trump White House panel promoting the use of fossil fuels at the 2016 Bonn Climate Change Conference.\n\nIn 2017 Hochstein joined Tellurian, a private LNG-gas company and today serves as SVP of Marketing.\n\nHochstein sees renewable energies as very important and being at the center of both the future's energy market and US energy policy. He is of the opinion, that the realistic transition into a fully renewable resourced energy mix, will take some time and that the use of cleaner resources (e.g. LNG to replace heavy crude oils) for this transition period is crucial to sustain economic developments and growth. Hochstein said: \"Here in Washington, I think we are the last city on the planet…where we still talk about fossil fuel versus renewables as some kind of zero-sum game […] It is not one or the other. It is going to have to be both because we are going to need the baseload and we are going to need the fuels that will transition us to the future.\"\n\nAt the 2015 Renewable Energy Transition event hosted by the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) and the Atlantic Council's Global Energy Center, Hochstein stated that \"unlike oil and gas, the technological advances we’re seeing in renewables are making them cheaper and better.\" He further said: \"U.S. energy security, energy sustainability and climate objectives are mutually reinforcing. As such, we are working to promote energy efficiency, conservation and transformation of energy systems. We are encouraging market reforms, such as the elimination of fossil fuel subsidies, that can address overall energy demand.\"\n\nHochstein has been interviewed by national and international media, commenting on national and international energy policy, energy security, and foreign policy.\n\nHochstein is a member of the supervisory board at Naftogaz and servers on the board of the Atlantic Council and the U.S.-Indian Business Council.\n\nHochstein is married to Julie Rae Ringel. They have four children.\n"}
{"id": "3868225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3868225", "title": "Antifascist Front of Slavs in Hungary", "text": "Antifascist Front of Slavs in Hungary\n\nAntifascist Front of Slavs in Hungary (Serbo-Croatian: \"Antifašistički front Slovena u Mađarskoj/Антифашистички фронт Словена у Мађарској\", Hungarian: \"Magyarországi Szlávok Antifasiszta Frontja\") was organization founded on February 18, 1945 in Battonya. For General Secretary was elected Dragutin Nedučić from Battonya and for vice-president Stevan Nedučić from Csanádpalota.\n\nAfter ending military administration first in March local organization of AFSH were founded in Bács among Bunjevci and among Šokci in Hercegszántó. Main organizer among Bunjevci was Antun Karagić.\n\nAfter Békés and Bács new organizations were founded around Budapest. In August County Secretariat of AFSH was founded in Pécs and for its secretary Svetozar Lastić was elected.\n\nIn September AFSH started founding other local organizations in Baranya and Baranya-Bács Slavic Cultural association joined the Front and Martin Laslović was elected as local president.\n\nThe first big rally of AFSH was on October 28, 1945 in Mohács. On December 3, 1945 first National conference was held in Mohács and Martin Laslović was elected as president.\n"}
{"id": "21254487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21254487", "title": "April 6 Youth Movement", "text": "April 6 Youth Movement\n\nThe April 6 Youth Movement \"()\" is an Egyptian activist group established in Spring 2008 to support the workers in El-Mahalla El-Kubra, an industrial town, who were planning to strike on April 6.\n\nActivists called on participants to wear black and stay home on the day of the strike. Bloggers and citizen journalists used Facebook, Twitter, Flickr, blogs and other new media tools to report on the strike, alert their networks about police activity, organize legal protection and draw attention to their efforts.\n\n\"The New York Times\" has identified the movement as the political Facebook group in Egypt with the most dynamic debates. , it had 70,000 predominantly young and educated members, most of whom had not been politically active before; their core concerns include free speech, nepotism in government and the country's stagnant economy. Their discussion forum on Facebook features intense and heated discussions, and is constantly updated with new postings.\n\nThe April 6 movement is using the same raised fist symbol as the Otpor! movement from Serbia, that helped bring down the regime of Slobodan Milošević and whose nonviolent tactics were later used in Ukraine and Georgia. Mohammed Adel, a leader in the April 6 movement, studied at the Centre for Applied Nonviolent Action and Strategies, an organization founded by former Otpor! members. The movement was banned by an Egyptian court on 28 April 2014. The Constitution Party condemned the verdict, arguing that the charges against the movement were \"false\" and that the court ruling was an example of state institutions undermining and destroying the rule of law. Hamdeen Sabahi's presidential campaign warned of the \"return to a state of suppression and banning.\" Abdul Ghaffar Shukr, vice president of the National Council for Human Rights, has stated that the council is prepared to stand in solidarity with the April 6 Youth Movement, and will aid the movement if it requests assistance. Human Rights Watch condemned the ruling as \"a clear violation of citizens' rights to free association, peaceful assembly, and free expression.\" The April 6 movement has vowed to defy the ban, as well as attempt to repeal it.\n\n\nAside from discussing the state of the nation online, members of the group have organized public rallies to free imprisoned journalists and engaged in protests concerning the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict. In its official pronouncements, the group stresses that it is not a political party. Ahmed Maher, one of the founders of the group, was arrested by the Egyptian authorities in May 2008 in an attempt to shut it down.\n\nIn July 2008, Maher was again arrested, along with 14 other members of the group, and charged with \"incitement against the regime\". He also claimed that Egyptian state security officers threatened to rape him in custody.\n\nOn 6 April 2009, the group was subjected to attacks, suspected to have been orchestrated by the Egyptian government. Several websites supporting the group were hacked simultaneously, and protests in Cairo were confronted by plain clothed Egyptian policemen and numerous arrests.\nOn May 2, 2010, the movement called for demonstrations under the name of the Workers' Revolution, which was aimed at achieving the minimum wage. In August of that year, slogans spread on the walls of the streets against the legacy of former President Hosni Mubarak, Most notably \"Egypt is not your father's father\".\n\nOn 29 January 2011, a WikiLeaks document was revealed which showed that the United States considered the movement to be \"outside (the) mainstream of opposition politicians and activists\" and described the goals of the movement for democracy as \"unrealistic\" yet still supported it in various ways, including pressing \"the MFA for the release of April 6 activists\". On 31 January 2011, the movement promoted participation of at least a million in a march on 1 February 2011.\n\nOn 3 February 2011, the Hisham Mubarak Law Center which was providing meeting space for the April 6 Youth Movement as well as providing medical and legal aid to the protesters was raided by security forces who arrested Amal Sharaf and other members of April 6.\n\nIn October 2011, the group launched a \"black circle, white circle\" political awareness campaign. Aiming to prevent former members of Mubarak's regime from winning seats in the post-revolution parliament, the group compiled a list of candidates with ties to the dissolved National Democratic Party or with histories of corruption, which comprised the \"black circle.\" Meanwhile, in the \"white circle,\" the group listed a set of qualifications and characteristics they hope to see in elected officials.\n\nOn 29 March 2013, the Movement organized an extraordinary demonstration in front of the house of the Egyptian Minister of Interior: General Mohamed Ibrahim. The activists carried women's lingerie and a banner describing the Ministry of Interior as the \"prostitute of the regime\". Three of the movement activists were arrested: Abdel Azim Fahmy (Known by Zizo), Mohamed Mustapha and Mamdouh Hassan ( Known by Abou Adam). Later on a fourth activist was arrested and detained, Sayed Mounir. April 6 Movement called for a \"Rage Day\" against President Mohamed Mursi on the fifth anniversary of its establishment 6th April 2013.\n\nOn 10 May 2013, Ahmed Maher was arrested at Cairo Airport upon his return to Egypt from a conference in the United States with charges of inciting for protests. Maher was released the day after, but the incident was a turning point. On 12 May, the 6 April Youth Movement decided to join the recently launched petitions collection campaign, Tamarod, calling for a vote of no-confidence in the administration of President Mohamed Morsi. \nIn July 2013, following the military coup against President Morsi, members of 6 April participated in The Third Square, a movement created by liberal, leftist and moderate Islamist activists who reject both Muslim Brotherhood and military rule. Many April 6 members also played founding roles in the Road of the Revolution Front, an organization dedicated to achieving the revolutionary goals of bread, freedom, and social justice.\n\nIn 2013, the 6 April movement held internal elections to determine who would succeed Ahmed Maher as the organization's coordinator. The vote resulted in Amr Ali, an accountant from Menufiya who has been involved in managing the group's community and public works, becoming the movement's new coordinator.\n\nThe Egyptian interim president Adly Mansour, and regardless of the widespread critics, approved a new law restricting protests on 24 November 2013.\n\nThe law was nationally and internationally heavily criticized with the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay urging the Egyptian government to amend it or repeal it. UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon added his voice to those criticizing the law for leaving the door open to a very restrictive and repressive interpretation and urged the Egyptian authorities to consider amendments to the law \"to make sure that any laws passed are in full conformity with international human rights standards\". Guy Verhofstadt, President of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe Group (ALDE), the third largest group in the European Parliament, criticized the new law\n\nThis anti-protest law is against everything the revolution was about. The Egyptian government should withdraw it.\n\nOn 26 November, the No Military Trials for Civilians campaign organised a protest at the Shura Council in defiance of the protest law. The protest was violently dispersed by the police, and dozens of well-known activists were arrested. The female activists were beaten and released on a desert road in the middle of the night, while the 24 male detainees remained in custody; most of whom were released on bail a week later.\n\nAn arrest warrant was issued against Ahmed Maher on the following day, accusing him of inciting protests. Maher turned himself in and was detained on 30 November 2013.\n\nOn 22 December 2013 an Egyptian court sentenced Ahmed Maher, Mohammed Adel, together with another prominent Egyptian activist, Ahmed Douma, to three years in jail and EGP50,000 fine each.\n\nMembers of the April 6 movement and activists from other organizations have planned to initiate an open-ended sit-in with the intention of remaining in place until the protest law is repealed and the verdict sentencing Ahmed Maher, Mohamed Adel, and Ahmed Douma to three years in jail and the paymenent of a fine of LE50,000 have been overturned. Due to fears of a crackdown, the sit-in's timing and logistics have been rescheduled.\n\nThe verdicts were widely criticized nationally and internationally:\n\nThe Cairo-based Arab Organization for Human Rights condemned the sentence saying it contradicts the spirit of the 25 January revolution. The Constitution Party has expressed solidarity with the detainees and their families and requested that the interim President Adly Mansour issue a pardon to Ahmed Maher, Mohammed Adel, and Ahmed Douma, as well as to Loay Abdel Rahman, Omar Hussein, Islam Ahmed, and Nasser Ibrahim. The Egyptian Social Democratic Party, the Popular Current, the Bread and Freedom Party, and the Freedom for the Brave campaign have also lent their support to the cause of freedom for the imprisoned activists.\n\nHamdeen Sabahi has censured the court conviction sentencing Ahmed Maher, Mohamed Adel and Ahmed Douma to three years in prison and a fine of LE50,000 and maintains that Interim President Adly Mansour should issue these and other detained individuals a pardon.\n\nThe European Union: \"The High Representative is concerned about the guilty verdict, the prison sentences and the financial penalty handed down by a court in Egypt against political activists Ahmed Maher, a founder of the April 6 Movement, Ahmed Douma and Mohammed Adel. These sentences appear to be based on the recently enacted protest law which is widely seen as limiting excessively freedom of expression and assembly. The High Representative expresses the hope that these sentences could be reviewed in an appeals process.\" \nFrance: \"France takes note of the harsh prison sentences handed down in the court of first instance to three human rights activists: Ahmed Maher, Ahmed Douma and Mohamed Adel. The handing down of these sentences follows the arrests carried out by the police – including on the premises of a human rights association –on the basis of the new law on demonstrations adopted on November 24.France shares the concerns expressed by the UN secretary-general and the UN high commissioner for human rights about this law. The sentences handed down yesterday confirm these concerns. France calls for compliance with the commitments undertaken by the Egyptian authorities in the context of the road map and at the international level with respect to public freedoms, notably the freedom of expression and opinion and the freedom to demonstrate peacefully while respecting public security requirements.\" \nItaly: \"The Ministry for Foreign Affairs noted the Egyptian courts' conviction of three members of the opposition — Ahmed Maher, founder of the April 6th movement, and Ahmed Douma and Mohamed Adel — on charges associated with the protests. In reference to the Egyptian transition, Italy fully shares the stances taken by the United Nations and the European Union on the importance of respect for freedom of expression and the right to peaceful demonstration. Italy reconfirms its support for an inclusive and sustainable transition in Egypt aimed at the creation of a democratic society based on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and its willingness to engage in dialogue and cooperation to that end.\" \nNorway: \"\"I am concerned about the yesterday's judgment against three Egyptian human rights activists. It is crucial that the Egyptian authorities respect democractic principles in this critical period prior to the elections and referendum on the constitution,\" said Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende. The Egyptian authorities have taken action against democracy and human rights activists on several occasions recently. Yesterday, three prominent activists – Ahmed Maher, Ahmed Douma and Mohammed Adel – were sentenced to three years' imprisonment, and last week, employees and volunteers at the Centre for Economic and Social Rights were arrested in connection with a raid.\" \nUnited Kingdom: \"Foreign Office Minister Mark Simmonds expresses concern on the sentencing of three human rights activists in Egypt. Foreign Office Minister Mark Simmonds said: I was deeply concerned to hear about the sentencing to three years in prison of the democracy and human rights activists Ahmed Maher, Ahmed Douma and Mohammed Adel. This represents a serious setback to attempts to return Egypt to the democratic path and undermines the values expressed by Egyptians during the Revolution of January 2011. The UK believes the freedom to protest peacefully is vital in any democracy and calls on Egypt's interim leaders to ensure that they uphold all Egypt's international human rights obligations.\" \nUnited States: \"The United States is deeply concerned about the worsening climate for freedom of assembly and peaceful expression in Egypt. The implementation of Egypt's restrictive demonstrations law has led to an increase in arrests, detentions, and charges against opposition figures, human rights activists and peaceful demonstrators, and sends a chilling message to civil society at large. In particular, we believe that the verdicts issued December 22 do not contribute to an open electoral environment or a transition process that protects the universal rights of all Egyptian citizens, and therefore should be reviewed. We continue to urge the government to fulfill its commitment to implement an inclusive democratic transition, including by permitting an open environment in which Egyptians are free to campaign and vote in favor or against the draft constitution on January 14–15, or abstain from the process entirely.\n\nThe April 6 movement has launched a campaign to annul the Egyptian protest law by a circulating a petition which citizens may sign to indicate approval for law's abolition or redrafting. Leading functionaries from various political factions who have signed the petition include the president of the Constitution Party, Hala Shukrallah, and Mohamed Ghonim, a key member of the Egyptian Social Democratic Party.\n\nThe April 6 Youth Movement Democratic Front () is an Egyptian activist group established in spring 2011 after the differences in the April 6 Youth Movement, led by Ahmed Maher. Differences in the Movement started to appear in April when leaders of the movement announced they would transform it into a NGO or foundation on its anniversary. TV host and founder, Abd Alrahman Ezz, of 6 April \"Democratic Front\", told Ahram Online that the decision was taken without consultation. \"It was taken with no respect for democracy, for the majority,\" Ezz says. The lack of internal democracy is the main reason why some left the mainstream movement, led by Ahmed Maher, forming the Democratic Front, Ezz says most of the old members joined the Democratic Front. On August 5th, a group of 6 April Youth Movement members in Alexandria announced that they had joined the Democratic Front, leaving the Ahmed Maher front due to what they considered discrimination in decision making processes.\n\nThe split is not limited to Cairo and Alexandria but also seems to have been reproduced itself across the country. On August 6th, a group of April 6 Movement members in Kafr El-Sheikh governor announced that they joined the Democratic Front, leaving the Ahmed Maher Front. The same happened in Behaira and Port Said.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2266409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2266409", "title": "Army of God (United States)", "text": "Army of God (United States)\n\nArmy of God (AOG) is a Christian terrorist organization that has engaged in the use of anti-abortion violence in the United States to fight against abortion. According to the Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security's joint Terrorism Knowledge Base, the Army of God is an active underground terrorist organization in the United States that was formed in 1982. In addition to numerous property crimes, the group has committed acts of kidnapping, attempted murder, and murder. While sharing a common ideology and tactics, the group's members claim that they rarely communicate with each other; the organization forbids those who wish to \"take action against baby killing abortionists\" from discussing their plans with anyone in advance.\n\nThe earliest documented incidence of the Army of God being involved with anti-abortion activity occurred in 1982. Three men stating that they were the \"Army Of God\" kidnapped Hector Zevallos, a doctor who performed abortions, and his wife, Rosalee Jean, and held them hostage. The hostages were later released unharmed after eight days. The \"East Coast division\" of the AOG claimed responsibility when three men, including Michael Bray, planted bombs at seven abortion clinics in Maryland, Virginia, and Washington D.C. in 1985.\n\nIn 1993, Shelly Shannon, a very active member of the Army of God, was found guilty of the attempted murder of Dr. George Tiller. That same year, law enforcement officials found the \"Army of God Manual\", a tactical guide to arson, chemical attacks, invasions and bombings buried in Shelly Shannon's backyard. Paul Jennings Hill was found guilty of the murder of both Dr. John Britton and clinic escort James Barrett. The AOG claimed responsibility for Eric Robert Rudolph's 1997 nail bombing of abortion clinics in Atlanta and Birmingham as well as an Atlanta lesbian bar.\n\nClayton Waagner, claiming to act on the part of the \"Virginia Dare Chapter\" of the AOG, mailed over 500 letters containing white powder to 280 abortion providers in 2001. The letters claimed that the powder was anthrax. Though it was not identified as such, the tactic took advantage of the public's fear of biological warfare after the recent real anthrax attacks.\n\nThe group is also associated with a number of other abortion clinic bombings, arsons and murders of abortion providers. Some of those responsible claimed association with the AOG; in other cases, while the killers expressed no affiliation with the group, the AOG has endorsed their acts and taken up their cause, stating that any action which prevents abortion is justified. Hill was head of a precursor organization called Defensive Action, which issued signed statements to members of Congress in the early 1990s expressing similar sentiments about \"killing the killers\".\n\nThe AOG movement, along with select followers, are featured in the HBO documentary film \"Soldiers in the Army of God\" (2000), directed by Marc Levin and Daphne Pinkerson, as part of HBO's America Undercover series.\n\nA 2011 NPR report claimed that an associate of this group, Stephen John Jordi, was imprisoned in a highly restrictive Communication Management Unit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1019959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1019959", "title": "Artivism", "text": "Artivism\n\nArtivism takes roots or branches off of a 1997 gathering between Chicano artists from East Los Angeles and the Zapatistas in Chiapas, Mexico. The words \"Artivist\" and \"Artivism\" were popularized through a variety of events, actions and artworks via artists and musicians such as Quetzal, Ozomatli, Mujeres de Maiz among other East LA artists and at spaces such as Self Help Graphics & Art.\n\nArtivism developed in recent years as antiwar and anti-globalization protests emerged and proliferated. In many cases artivists attempt to push political agendas by the means of art, but a focus on raising social, environmental, and technical awareness is also common. Besides using traditional mediums like film and music to raise awareness or push for change, an artivist can also be involved in culture jamming, subvertising, street art, spoken word, protesting, and activism.\n\nArtivist Eve Ensler stated:\n... This passion has all the ingredients of activism, but is charged with the wild creations of art. Artivism—where edges are pushed, imagination is freed, and a new language emerges altogether.\" Bruce Lyons has written: \"... artivism ... promotes the essential understanding that ... [humans] ... can, through courageous creative expression, experience the unifying power of love when courage harnesses itself to the task of art + social responsibility.\n\nBy 2008, the term had made its way into academic writing, with Chela Sandoval and Guisela Latorre published a piece on Chicano/a artivism and M. K. Asante used the term in reference to Black artists.\n\nThere is a chapter on artivism in the book \"It's Bigger Than Hip Hop\" by M. K. Asante. Asante writes of the artivist: \nThe artivist (artist + activist) uses her artistic talents to fight and struggle against injustice and oppression—by any medium necessary. The artivist merges commitment to freedom and justice with the pen, the lens, the brush, the voice, the body, and the imagination. The artivist knows that to make an observation is to have an obligation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55734555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55734555", "title": "Asiaciti Trust", "text": "Asiaciti Trust\n\nAsiaciti Trust is an international trust and corporate services company. It provides fiduciary, wealth transfer, and administrative services, and has operations throughout Asia, Central America, and the Pacific.\n\nAsiaciti Trust was established in 1978. The founder of Asiaciti Trust, Graeme W Briggs, was formerly the international tax partner of Marquand & Co. He acquired the international operations of Marquand & Co in 1975. Briggs was also a founding Senator of the Offshore Institute. Asiaciti Trust is also involved in several charity projects through its Asiaciti Trust Charitable Foundation. One of its biggest projects is Latin American Roaming Art (LARA). In 2018, Asiaciti Trust sponsored the Middle East Wealth Management Forum in Dubai.\n\n\nThe company was associated with the Paradise Papers data theft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1371437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371437", "title": "Asom Bharatiya Janata Party", "text": "Asom Bharatiya Janata Party\n\nThe Asom Bharatiya Janata Party is a break-away group of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Assam. ABJP was founded by senior BJP leader and former Deputy Inspector General of Police, Hiranya Bhattacharya in 2001. Bhattacharya had objected to the decision of BJP to align with the Asom Gana Parishad.\n\nAsom BJP contested the 2001 state assembly polls unsuccessfully.\n"}
{"id": "3020376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3020376", "title": "Ben Laurie", "text": "Ben Laurie\n\nBen Laurie is a software engineer, protocol designer and cryptographer. He is a founding director of The Apache Software Foundation, a core team member of OpenSSL, a member of the Shmoo Group, a director of the Open Rights Group, Director of Security at The Bunker Secure Hosting, Trustee and Founder-member of FreeBMD, Visiting Fellow at Cambridge University's Computer Laboratory, a committer at FreeBSD and Advisory Board member of WikiLeaks.org.\n\nLaurie works for Google in London on various projects, currently focused on Certificate transparency.\n\nBen wrote Apache-SSL, the basis of most SSL-enabled versions of the Apache HTTP Server and is a co-author of OpenPGP:SDK. He developed the MUD \"Gods\", which was innovative in including online creation in its endgame.\n\nBen also has written several articles, papers and books, many of which can be found on his home page or his blog and is interested in ideal knots and their applications.\n"}
{"id": "51667869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51667869", "title": "Bibliography of Margaret Thatcher", "text": "Bibliography of Margaret Thatcher\n\nThis bibliography includes major books and articles about British prime minister Margaret Thatcher and her policies.\n"}
{"id": "39891651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39891651", "title": "Black Garden", "text": "Black Garden\n\nBlack Garden: Armenia and Azerbaijan Through Peace and War is a 2003 book by Thomas de Waal, based on the study of Armenia and Azerbaijan, two former Soviet republics, during the Nagorno-Karabakh War. It cuts between a careful reconstruction of the history of Nagorno Karabakh conflict since 1988 and on-the-spot reporting on its convoluted aftermath.\n\nMuch of de Waal's analysis is concerned with the Caucasus region, focusing on the exercise of power on the Eurasian landmass in a post-Soviet environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "20809448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20809448", "title": "Boc Cabinets", "text": "Boc Cabinets\n\nThe first Boc cabinet of the government of Romania was composed of 20 ministers, listed below. It was sworn in on 22 December 2008, the same day it received the vote of confidence from the Parliament of Romania. It was a grand coalition government, formed by the PD-L and the PSD. The cabinet could have faced a Constitutional issue, by using the term \"Deputy Prime Minister\", instead of the one used in the previous cabinets \"Minister of State\".\n\nFollowing the resignation of Liviu Dragnea (PSD) from the office of Minister of Administration and Interior, on 2 February 2009, the Parliament voted to unify the post of Deputy Prime Minister with the post of Minister of Administration and Interior.\n\nOn 1 October 2009, following the removal from office of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Administration and Interior, Dan Nica (PSD), all the PSD Ministers resigned from the cabinet. As a result, all their offices were taken, ad interim by the PD-L, for a period no longer than 45 days. The cabinet should have received a new vote from the Parliament, as its political composition was changed. On 13 October 2009 the Parliament voted for a motion of no confidence. As a result, this cabinet was just an acting cabinet. Its term ended on 23 December 2009, when the new cabinet, headed also by Emil Boc received the vote of confidence from the Parliament and was sworn in at Cotroceni Palace. During the interim period, Traian Băsescu nominated repeatedly friendly candidates, despite the fact that the then opposition parties (PNL, PSD, UDMR, and the 18 representatives of the national ethnic minorities), having an absolute majority in both Houses of Parliament, expressed their will to nominate the Mayor of Sibiu Klaus Iohannis as Prime Minister.\n\nThe Croitoru-proposed cabinet was Lucian Croitoru's proposal for the cabinet, composed of 14 ministers, listed below. It was proposed on 23 October 2009, and was rejected by the Parliament of Romania on 4 November 2009.\n\nOn 15 October 2009, President Traian Băsescu, citing the need for an individual well-versed in economic policy to steer Romania through the ongoing crisis, nominated the politically independent Lucian Croitoru as Prime Minister in place of Emil Boc, whose cabinet fell after losing a motion of no confidence two days earlier. The nomination was backed by the Democratic Liberal Party, which is supporting Băsescu in the upcoming presidential election, but drew criticism from the rest of the parties represented in the Romanian Parliament (the Social Democratic Party, the National Liberal Party, the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania and the Parliamentary group of ethnic minorities), which backed Sibiu Mayor Klaus Iohannis for the position, and vowed to challenge Croitoru's nomination at the Constitutional Court or derail it in Parliament. In a meeting with Croitoru on 20 October, the four Parliamentary groups told Croitoru they would not vote for a cabinet headed by him, and asked him to refuse the nomination as Prime Minister.\n\nOn 23 October, Croitoru announced his proposed cabinet, which included 14 ministers, down from 18 in Emil Boc cabinet. There were 7 holdovers, and 7 new names (in addition to Croitoru).\n\nThe Ministry of Youth and Sport would be merged with the Ministry of Education and Research and Innovation, the Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprises, Commerce and Business Environment which will be merged with the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Tourism which will be merged with the Ministry of Regional Development. Five current ministerial posts (of Youth and Sport, Small and Medium Enterprise, Tourism, Communications, and Relations with Parliament), as well as the post of Deputy Prime Minister would be cancelled.\n\nFollowing the rejection by Parliament of the Croitoru Cabinet, dubbed in the press as the second Boc cabinet without Boc, President Băsescu nominated sector 3 Mayor Liviu Negoiță to form a new government. Due to the fact that the Cabinet structure was identical to, and that most of the ministers where the same as the ones of the first Boc cabinet, and the Croitoru (proposed) Cabinet, this new proposal was nicknamed by the media and analysts \"The Boc III Cabinet without Boc\". This cabinet never received a vote from Parliament, and Negoiță renounced to the mandate days after the run-off of the presidential election, the first Boc cabinet being officially mandated as a caretaker government until a new cabinet would form.\n\nOn 23 December 2009 the new Boc Cabinet received, by a narrow margin, the vote of confidence of the Parliament, and was sworn in at Cotroceni later that day. The Government formed was a coalition government between the Democratic Liberal Party and the Democratic Union of Hungarians in Romania. It also received the (traditional) vote of the national minorities group in the Chamber of Deputies and of the two controversial groups of independents in both houses (Chamber of Deputies and Senate) of Parliament.\n\nOn 3 September 2010, Emil Boc announced a Cabinet reshuffle, replacing six Ministers. Due to the way the reshuffle was implemented, after two days of meetings and discussions, the media continued, albeit without any legal basis, the numbering of the reshuffled Cabinet as \"Boc V\", the current Boc II Cabinet being dubbed by the press and civil society as Boc IV.\n\nOn 6 February 2012, he resigned from office, on the background of long ongoing street protests.\n\nThe members of the cabinet are listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "21750566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21750566", "title": "Båstad riots", "text": "Båstad riots\n\nThe Båstad riots () is the name given to the riots that took place during a Davis Cup tennis match between Sweden and Rhodesia on May 3, 1968 in Båstad, Sweden. \n\nDemonstrators were protesting the participation of the two apartheid countries, Rhodesia and South Africa, in the international tennis competition. The countries were barred from other international sporting events. It became the most violent confrontation between the Swedish police and demonstrators during the 1960s. It was followed by a dialogue between the Swedish government and the demonstrators to curb the escalation of violence. The match later was played in secrecy, and Sweden won 4-1. \n"}
{"id": "35069165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35069165", "title": "Confederación Xeral de Traballadores Galegos-Intersindical Nacional", "text": "Confederación Xeral de Traballadores Galegos-Intersindical Nacional\n\nConfederación Xeral de Traballadores Galegos-Intersindical Nacional ('General Confederation of Galician Workers', abbreviated CXTG-IN) was a nationalist trade union centre in Galicia. CXTG-IN was founded in 1985, as a split from the Intersindical Nacional dos Traballadores Galegos (INTG). Fernando Acuña served as the general secretary of the organization. Politically the movement was close to Galician leftwing groups.\n\nIn 1985 INTG was torn by internal divisions, over questions such as the tactics of general strikes and the building of a new political movement. CXTG was founded as a result of this split.\n\nCXTG-IN participated in the 1986 trade union elections, winning 1,104 delegates (0.62% of the company committees representative seats in all of Spain).\n\nOn December 14, 1988 a general strike was organized across Spain. In Galicia two separate mobilizations were organized, one by CC.OO. and UGT and one by CXTG and INTG.\n\nCXTG-IN published the journal \"Adiante\".\n\nThe CXTG-IN union in the health care sector was the \"Sindicato Galego da Sanidade-CXTG\" (SGS-CXTG). The metal workers' union of CXTG was \"Sindicato Galego do Metal\".\n\nThe teachers' union of CXTG-IN was called \"Sindicato Galego do Ensino ea Investigación/CXTG\" (SGEI-CXTG). SGEI-CXTG won around 10% of the votes in the teachers' union elections of 1987. In 1987 the CXTG teachers' union launched a 'Permanent Seminary for Education for Peace', which later became an independent institution. The Permanent Seminary published didactic materials on human rights, marginalization and ecopacifism. Through the Permanent Seminary, the CXTG sought to promote non-sexist education.\n\nOn April 2, 1990 CXTG-IN and INTG signed a cooperation treaty.\n\nINTG and CXTG contested the 1990 trade union elections jointly, winning 3,527 delegates (23.2% of the representative seats in Galicia). On January 18, 1992 CXTG held an extraordinary congress in Narón, with the slogan 'Forward on the path of unity'. The third congress of CXTG was held in Vigo January 16–17, 1993, with the slogan 'Build the future of trade unionism'.\n\nIn March 1994 the two trade union centres merged at a founding congress of Confederación Intersindical Galega (CIG). The CXTG-IN leader Acuña became the founding general secretary of the new union.\n\nSGM-CXTG merged with the INTG metal workers' union (FTM), forming CIG-METAL.\n"}
{"id": "23690741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23690741", "title": "Consortium for Elections and Political Process Strengthening", "text": "Consortium for Elections and Political Process Strengthening\n\nThe Consortium for Elections and Political Process Strengthening (CEPPS) is a cooperative agreement supervised by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Office of Democracy and Governance made in 1995. As part of USAID's Acceleration Success initiative, the agreement is the principal contractor for the Office of Democracy and Government's elections and political processes program which provides technical assistance and support to USAID missions worldwide. The agreement includes the International Republican Institute (IRI), the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES) and the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs.\n\nThe following are examples of activities which CEPPS has taken part in.\n\nCEPPS implemented a cooperative agreement funded by USAID starting in 2003 and terminating in 2011 concerning the \"Strengthening of elections and political process.\" The cooperative agreement is meant to improve the effectiveness of the Independent Electoral Commission, support the National Assembly, support the development of provincial councils and increase grassroot movements in support of democracy. CEPPS reported training more than 2000 local leaders in civic education and registering 46 political parties before the end of 2004. Additionally CEPPS established eight election training and information centres by 2004.\n\nThrough the \"Support for Increased Electoral Participation in Afghanistan\" program IFES, IRI and NDI:\n\n\nThe Philippines Commission on Elections (COMELEC) asked CEPPS to assess the political situation leading up to the May 10, 2004 elections. CEPPS agreed to take part in a mission funded by USAID. The project was meant to observe the elections in order to make recommendations to COMELEC and other political players, to host a post-election program to evaluate and make recommendations to these political players and to make recommendations to the media following the election.\n\n"}
{"id": "28297094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28297094", "title": "Daniyal Ametov", "text": "Daniyal Ametov\n\nDaniyal Ametov is a Crimean Tatar land-squatting activist in Ukraine, and a member of the NGO \"Advet\".\n\nThe goal of Ametov and his organisation is to restore land rights in Crimea to the Tartar people, 200,000 of whom were forcibly deported to Central Asia in 1944 by Joseph Stalin, under suspicion of being Nazi collaborators. The Crimean Tartars were allowed to return to their homeland towards the end of the Soviet era, but in many cases their lands had been redistributed in their absence. Some members of the community have taken to constructing temporary houses on land they wish to reclaim, without legal permission.\n\nAmetov was sentenced to four years in prison in October 2010 for intention infliction of trivial or medium bodily injury to a police officer by the Central District Court of Simferopol. This case was connected to an incident in 2007, where it was alleged that Ametov struck a police inspector in the face and caused a minor injury to his nose. The sentence was upheld by the Simferopol Appeal Court, but was reduced to three years by the Higher Specialized Court on Civil and Criminal Matters in March 2011.\n"}
{"id": "210802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210802", "title": "Decembrist revolt", "text": "Decembrist revolt\n\nThe Decembrist revolt or the Decembrist uprising () took place in Imperial Russia on . Russian army officers led about 3,000 soldiers in a protest against Tsar Nicholas I's assumption of the throne after his elder brother Constantine removed himself from the line of succession. Because these events occurred in December, the rebels were called the \"Decembrists\" (\"Dekabristy\", ).\n\nThe uprising, which was suppressed by Nicholas I, took place in Peter's Square in Saint Petersburg. In 1925, to mark the centenary of the event, the square was renamed Decembrist Square; but in 2008 the name was changed back to its original name, Senate Square.\n\nAt first, many officers were encouraged by Tsar Alexander I's early liberal reformation of Russian society and politics. Liberalism was encouraged on an official level, creating high expectations during the period of rapprochement between Napoleon and Alexander. The major person for reform in Alexander’s regime was Count Mikhail Mikhailovich Speransky. During his early years in the regime, Speransky helped inspire the organization of the Ministry of the Interior, the reform of ecclesiastic education, and the formulation of the government’s role in the country’s economic development. Speransky’s role increased greatly in 1808. From then until 1812, when they feared him as a liberal similar to Napoleon invading of Russia, Speransky developed plans for the reorganization of Russia’s government. Returned from exile in 1819 Count Mikhail Mikhailovich Speransky was appointed as the Governor of Siberia, with the task of reforming local government. Equally, in 1818 the Tsar asked Count Nikolay Nikolayevich Novosiltsev to draw up a constitution. The abolition of serfdom in Baltic provinces was in 1816-1819. However, internal and external unrest, which the Tsar believed stemmed from political liberalisation, led to a series of repressions and a return to a former government of restriction and conservatism.\n\nMeanwhile, spurred by their experiences of the Napoleonic Wars, and realising many of the harsh indignities through which the peasant soldiers were forced, Decembrist officers and sympathisers displayed their contempt for the \"ancien régime\" by rejecting court lifestyle, wearing their cavalry swords at balls (indicating their unwillingness to dance), and committing themselves to academic study. This new lifestyle captured the spirit of the times, as a willingness to embrace both the peasant (i.e., the 'Russian way of life') and ongoing reformative movements abroad.\n\nThe motivations for the reformist movement are outlined, in part, by Pavel Pestel:\n\nHistorians have also noted that the United States Declaration of Independence and the American revolution may have influenced Decembrists. The most correct name for Decembrists could be Russian Americanophiles. The Constitution written by Nikita Muravyov was essentially the translation of the US Constitution. But Decembrists were against US slavery. Any slaves and serfs from all countries were to become free in Russia immediately. Pestel and his followers were against the US federation model in peaceful times as threatening by the split of the would-be Russian/United Slavic federation and approved the US revolutionary model only. But while conceding with Pestel that the American revolutionary model of the federal government could be the best form for Russia, the Polish patriotic society could not agree not only with partaking with this federation establishment, but with the same form of government for unitarian Poland and requested for Lithuania, Belarus and Ukraine without any Russian involvement into the affairs of these territories and any Polish federalization.\n\nIn 1816, several officers of the Imperial Russian Guard founded a society known as the Union of Salvation, or of the Faithful and True Sons of the Fatherland. The society acquired a more revolutionary cast after it was joined by the idealistic Pavel Pestel, dreaming of the mass repressions against different ethnic and class groups and the total annihilation of the imperial family. The charter was similar to charters of the organizations of carbonari. Pestel was supported by Yakushkin when there were rumours that the emperor had intended to transfer the capital from Saint-Petersburg to Warsaw and to liberate all peasants without the consent of Russian landlords which could not influence the government being in Warsaw. Yakushkin was to kill the emperor even before the revolution thus. When the society consisting of Russian landlords had refused to kill an emperor because only of rumors Yakushkin left the society. More liberal Mikhail Muravyov-Vilensky created a new charter similar to that of Tugendbund and without any revolutionary plans of the society called now the Union of Prosperity though still illegal similar to masonic lodges. (The small Ordain of Russian knights for exception of its active member Alexander von Benckendorff also joined the Union of Prosperity together with the members of the Union of Salvation. ) After a mutiny in the Semenovsky Regiment in 1820, the society decided to suspend activity in 1821. Two groups, however, continued to function secretly: a Southern Society, based at Tulchin, a small garrison town in Ukraine, in which Pestel was the outstanding figure, and a Northern Society, based at St Petersburg, led by Guard officers Nikita Muraviev, Prince S. P. Trubetskoy and Prince Eugene Obolensky. The political aims of the more moderate Northern Society were a British-style constitutional monarchy with a limited franchise, though it could be replaced with a republic in the future but only according to the will of the people, assuming the legislative assembly and excluding the execution of the imperial family, the abolition of serfdom according to the interests of Russian landlords, i. e. with land in the ownership of landlords mainly still similar to the abolition of serfdom in Baltic provinces, and equality before the law. The Southern Society, under Pestel's influence, was more radical and wanted to abolish the monarchy, establish a republic, similar to the Union of Salvation, and contrary to the Union of Salvation plans, to redistribute land: taking half into state ownership and dividing the rest among the peasants. The Society of United Slavs (also known as the Slavic Union) was established in Novograd-Volynsky in the Ukraine in 1823. Its never written program was similar to that of the Southern Society but the main emphasis was on the equal federation of Russia (including Ukraine), Poland, Moldova (including Bessarabia) with the attachment of Valahia, Transilvania, Hungary (including Slovakia, Slovenia, Voevodina, Kraina), Croatia, Serbia, Dalmatia, Cheske, Moravia i. e. all Slavic countriers for the exception of Bulgaria and Macedonia in the future. This society joined the Southern Society and adopted its program in exchange for the recognition of the Slavic federation zeal by the Southern society in September 1825 . \nБ\n\nWhen Tsar Alexander I died on , the royal guards swore allegiance to the presumed heir, Alexander's brother Constantine. When Constantine made his renunciation public, and Nicholas stepped forward to assume the throne, the Northern Society acted. With the capital in temporary confusion, and one oath to Constantine having already been sworn, the society scrambled in secret meetings to convince regimental leaders not to swear allegiance to Nicholas. These efforts would culminate in the Decembrist Revolt. The leaders of the society elected Prince Sergei Trubetskoy as interim ruler.\n\nOn the morning of , a group of officers commanding about 3,000 men assembled in Senate Square, where they refused to swear allegiance to the new tsar, Nicholas I, proclaiming instead their loyalty to Constantine and their Decembrist Constitution. They expected to be joined by the rest of the troops stationed in Saint Petersburg but they were disappointed. The revolt was further hampered when it was deserted by its supposed leader Prince Trubetskoy. His second-in-command, Colonel Bulatov, also vanished from the scene. After a hurried consultation the rebels appointed Prince Eugene Obolensky as a replacement leader.\n\nFor hours there was a stand-off between the 3,000 rebels and the 9,000 loyal troops stationed outside the Senate building, with some desultory shooting from the rebel side. A vast crowd of civilian on-lookers began fraternizing with the rebels but did not join the action. Eventually, Nicholas (the new Tsar) appeared in person at the square, and sent Count Mikhail Miloradovich to parley with the rebels. Miloradovich was fatally shot by Pyotr Kakhovsky while delivering a public address. At the same time, a rebelling squad of grenadiers, led by Lieutenant Nikolay Panov, entered the Winter Palace but failed to seize it and retreated.\n\nAfter spending most of the day in fruitless attempts to parley with the rebel force, Nicholas ordered a cavalry charge which slipped on the icy cobbles and retired in disorder. Eventually, at the end of the day, Nicholas ordered three artillery pieces to open fire, with devastating effect. To avoid the slaughter the rebels broke and ran. Some attempted to regroup on the frozen surface of the river Neva, to the north. However, here too they were targeted by the artillery and suffered many casualties. As the ice was broken by the cannon fire, many of the dead and dying were cast into the river. After a nighttime mopping-up operation by loyal army and police units, the revolt in the north came to an end.\n\nWhile the Northern Society scrambled in the days leading up to the revolt, the Southern Society (based in Tulchin) took a serious blow. The day before (), acting on reports of treason, the police arrested Pavel Pestel. It took two weeks for the Southern Society to learn of the events in the capital. Meanwhile, other members of the leadership were arrested. The Southern Society, and a nationalistic group called the United Slavs, discussed revolt. When learning of the location of some of the arrested men, the United Slavs freed them by force. One of the freed men, Sergey Muravyov-Apostol, assumed leadership of the revolt. After converting the soldiers of Vasilkov to the cause, Muraviev-Apostol easily captured the city. The rebelling army was soon confronted by superior forces who were heavily armed with artillery and loaded with grapeshot.\n\nOn , the rebels met defeat and the surviving leaders were sent to Saint Petersburg to stand trial with the northern leaders. The Decembrists were taken to the Winter Palace to be interrogated, tried, and convicted. The shooter Kakhovsky was executed by hanging, together with four other leading Decembrists: Pavel Pestel; the poet Kondraty Ryleyev; Sergey Muravyov-Apostol; and Mikhail Bestuzhev-Ryumin. 31 Decembrists facing death penalty were pardoned and imprisoned in fortresses. Other Decembrists were exiled to Siberia, Kazakhstan, and the Far East.\n\nSuspicion also fell on several eminent persons who were on friendly terms with the Decembrist leaders and could have been aware of their clandestine organizations, notably Alexander Pushkin, Aleksander Griboyedov, and Aleksey Yermolov.\n\nOn , the first party of Decembrist convicts began its exodus to Siberia. Among this group, were Prince Trubetskoi, Prince Obolensky, Peter and Andrei Borisov, Prince Volkonsky, and Artamon Muraviev, all of them bound for the mines at Nerchinsk. The journey eastward was fraught with hardship; yet for many, it offered refreshing changes in scenery and peoples, following imprisonment. Decembrist Nikolay Vasil’yevich Basargin was unwell when he set out from St. Petersburg, but he recovered his strength on the move; his memoirs depict the journey to Siberia in a cheerful light, full of praise for the “common people” and commanding landscapes.\n\nNot all Decembrists could identify with Basargin’s positive experience. Because of their lower social standing, “soldier-Decembrists” experienced the Emperor’s vengeance in full. Sentenced by court-martial, many of these “commoners” received thousands of lashes. Those that survived journeyed to Siberia on foot, chained alongside common criminals.\n\nFifteen out of 124 Decembrists were convicted of “state-crimes” by the Supreme Criminal Court, and sentenced to “exile-to-settlement.” These men were sent directly to isolated locales, such as Berezov, Narym, Surgut, Pelym, Irkutsk, Yakutsk, and Viliuisk, among others. Few Russians inhabited these places: the populations consisted mainly of Siberian aborigines, Tunguses, Yakuts, Tartars, Ostiaks, Mongols, and Buriats.\n\nOf all those exiled, the largest group of prisoners was sent to Chita, Zabaykalsky Krai, to be transferred three years later to Petrovsky Zavod, near Nerchinsk. This group, sentenced to hard labor, included principal leaders of the Decembrist movement as well as Polish revolutionaries. Siberian Governor-General Lavinsky argued that it would be easiest to control a large, concentrated group of convicts, and Emperor Nicholas I pursued this policy in order to maximize surveillance and to limit revolutionaries’ contact with local populations. Concentration facilitated the guarding of prisoners, but it also allowed the Decembrists to continue to exist as a community. This was especially true at Chita. The move to Petrovsky Zavod, however, forced Decembrists to divide into smaller groups; the new location was compartmentalized, with an oppressive sense of order. Convicts could no longer congregate casually. Although nothing could destroy the Decembrists’ conception of fraternity, Petrovsky Zavod forced them to live more private lives. Owing to a number of imperial sentence reductions, exiles started to complete their labor terms years ahead of schedule. The labor itself was of minimal travail; Stanislav Leparsky, commandant of Petrovsky Zavod, failed to enforce Decembrists’ original labor sentences, and criminal convicts carried out much of the work in place of the revolutionaries. Most Decembrists left Petrovsky Zavod between 1835 and 1837, settling in or near Irkutsk, Minusinsk, Kurgan, Tobol’sk, Turinsk, and Yalutorovsk. Those Decembrists who had already lived in or visited Siberia, such as Dimitri Zavalishin, prospered upon leaving Petrovsky Zavod’s confines, but most found it physically arduous and more psychologically unnerving than prison life.\n\nThe Siberian population met the Decembrists with great hospitality. Natives played central roles in keeping lines of communication open among Decembrists, friends, and relatives. Most merchants and state employees were also sympathetic. To the masses, the Decembrist exiles were “generals who had refused to take the oath to Nicholas I.” They were great figures that had suffered political persecution for their loyalty to the people. On the whole, indigenous Siberian populations greatly respected the Decembrists and were extremely hospitable in their reception of them.\n\nUpon arrival at places of settlement, exiles had to comply with extensive regulations under a strict governmental regime. Local police watched, regulated, and notated every move that Decembrists attempted to make. Dimitri Zavalishin was thrown into prison for failing to remove his hat before a lieutenant. Not only were political and social activities carefully monitored and prevented, there was also interference regarding religious convictions. Local clergy accused Prince Shakhovskoi of “heresy”, due to his interest in natural sciences. Authorities investigated and restrained other Decembrists for not attending church. The regime thoroughly censored all correspondences, especially communication with relatives. Messages were scrupulously reviewed by both officials in Siberia and the Third Division of the political intelligence service at St. Petersburg. This screening process necessitated dry, careful wording on the part of Decembrists. In the words of Bestuzhev, correspondence bore a “lifeless...imprint of officiality.” Under the settlement regime, allowances were extremely meager. Certain Decembrists, including the Volkonskys, the Murav’yovs, and the Trubetskoys, were rich, but the majority of exiles had no money, and were forced to live off a mere fifteen desyatins (about 16 hectares) of land, the allotment granted to each settler. Decembrists, with little to no knowledge of the land, attempted to eke out a living on wretched soil with next to no equipment. Financial aid from relatives and wealthier comrades saved many; others perished.\n\nDespite extensive restrictions, limitations, and hardships, Decembrists believed that they could improve their situation through personal initiative. A constant stream of petitions came out of Petrovsky Zavod addressed to General Leparskii and Emperor Nicholas I. Most of the petitions were written by Decembrists’ wives who had nobly cast aside social privileges and comfort to follow their husbands into exile. These wives joined under the leadership of Princess Mariia Volkonskaia, and by 1832, through relentless petitions, managed to secure for their men formal cancellation of labor requirements, and several privileges, including the right of husbands to live with their wives in privacy. Decembrists managed to gain transfers and allowances through persuasive petitions as well as through the intervention of family members. This process of petitioning, and the resultant concessions made by the tsar and officials, was and would continue to be a standard practice of political exiles in Siberia. The chain of bureaucratic procedures and orders linking St. Petersburg to Siberian administration was often circumvented or ignored. These breaks in bureaucracy afforded exiles a small capacity for betterment and activism.\n\nWives of many Decembrists followed their husbands into exile. The expression \"Decembrist wife\" is a Russian symbol of the devotion of a wife to her husband. Maria Volkonskaya, the wife of the Decembrist leader Sergei Volkonsky, notably followed her husband to his exile in Irkutsk. Despite the spartan conditions of this banishment, Sergei Volkonsky and his wife, Maria, took opportunities to celebrate the liberalising mode of their exile. Sergei took to wearing an untrimmed beard (rejecting Peter the Great's reforms and salon fashion), wearing peasant dress and socialising with many of his peasant associates with whom he worked the land at his farm in Urik. Maria, equally, established schools, a foundling hospital and a theater for the local population. Sergei returned after thirty years of his exile had elapsed, though his titles and land remained under royal possession. Other exiles preferred to remain in Siberia after their sentences were served, preferring its relative freedom to the stifling intrigues of Moscow and St. Petersburg, and after years of exile there was not much for them to return to. Many Decembrists thrived in exile, in time becoming landowners and farmers. In later years, they would become idols of the populist movement of the 1860s and the 1870s, as the Decembrists' advocacy of reform (including the abolition of serfdom) won them many admirers, the writer Leo Tolstoy among them.\n\nDuring their time in exile, the Decembrists fundamentally influenced Siberian life. Their presence was most definitely felt culturally and economically, political activity being so far removed from the “pulse of national life” so as to be negligible. While in Petrovsky Zavod, Decembrists taught each other foreign languages, arts and crafts, and musical instruments. They established “academies” made up of libraries, schools, and symposia. In their settlements, Decembrists were fierce advocates of education, and founded many schools for natives, the first of which opened at Nerchinsk. Schools were also founded for women, and soon exceeded capacity. Decembrists contributed greatly to the field of agriculture, introducing previously unknown crops such as vegetables, tobacco, rye, buckwheat, and barley, and advanced agricultural methods such as hothouse cultivation. Trained doctors among the political exiles promoted and organized medical aid. The homes of prominent exiles like Prince Sergei Volkonsky and Prince Sergei Trubetskoi became social centers of their locales. All throughout Siberia, the Decembrists sparked an intellectual awakening: literary writings, propaganda, newspapers, and books from European Russia began to circulate the eastern provinces, the local population developing a capacity for critical political observation. The Decembrists even held a certain influence within Siberian administration; Dimitry Zavalishin played a critical role in developing and advocating Russian Far East policy. Although the Decembrists lived in isolation, their scholarly activities encompassed Siberia at large, including its culture, economy, administration, population, geography, botany, and ecology. Despite restricted circumstances, the Decembrists accomplished an extraordinary amount, and their work was deeply appreciated by Siberians.\n\nOn August 26, 1856, with the ascent of Alexander II to the throne, the Decembrists received amnesty, and their rights, privileges, and titles restored. Not all chose to return to the West, however. Some were financially inhibited, others had no family to return to, and many were weak with old age. To many, Siberia had become home. Those that did return to European Russia did so with enthusiasm for the enforcement of the Emancipation Reforms of 1861. The exile of the Decembrists led to the permanent implantation of an intelligentsia in Siberia. For the first time, a cultural, intellectual, and political elite came to Siberian society as permanent residents; they integrated with the country and participated alongside natives in its development.\n\nWith the failure of the Decembrists, Russia's autocracy would continue for almost a century, although serfdom would be officially abolished in 1861. Though defeated, the Decembrists did effect some change on the regime. Their dissatisfaction forced Nicholas to turn his attention inward to address the issues of the empire. In 1826, Speransky was appointed by Nicholas I to head the \"Second Section\" of His Imperial Majesty's Own Chancellery, a committee formed to codify Russian law. Under his leadership, the committee produced a publication of the complete collection of laws of the Russian Empire, containing 35,993 enactments. This codification called the \"Full Collection of Laws\" (\"Polnoye Sobraniye Zakonov\") was presented to Nicholas I, and formed the basis for the \"Collection of Laws of the Russian Empire\" (\"Svod Zakonov Rossiskoy Imperii\"), the positive law valid for the Russian Empire. Speransky's liberal ideas were subsequently scrutinized and elaborated by Konstantin Kavelin and Boris Chicherin.\nAlthough the revolt was a proscribed topic during Nicholas’ reign, Alexander Herzen placed the profiles of executed Decembrists on the cover of his radical periodical \"Polar Star\". Alexander Pushkin addressed poems to his Decembrist friends, Nikolai Nekrasov wrote a long poem about the Decembrist wives, and Leo Tolstoy started writing a novel on that liberal movement, which would later evolve into \"War and Peace\". In the Soviet era Yuri Shaporin produced an opera entitled \"Dekabristi\" (The Decembrists), about the revolt, with the libretto written by Aleksey Nikolayevich Tolstoy. It premiered at the Bolshoi Theatre on 23 June 1953.\n\nTo some extent, the Decembrists were in the tradition of a long line of palace revolutionaries who wanted to place their candidate on the throne, but many Decembrists also wanted to implement either classical liberalism or conservatism contrary to the more Bolshevik, and even fascist, program of Pavel Pestel. The majority of Decembrists were not the members of illegal organizations similar to the participants of palace revolutions. Some were the members of the Union of Prosperity only with the official pro-governmental conservative program. But their revolt, not previous palace revolutions, has been considered the beginning of a revolutionary movement. The uprising was the first open breach between the government and reformist elements of the Russian nobility, which would subsequently widen. \n\nThere was an anecdote that soldiers in Saint Petersburg were said to chant \"Constantine and Constitution\", but when questioned, many of them professed to believe that \"Constitution\" (which is grammatically female in Russian \"Konstitutsiya\") was Constantine's wife.\n\nPyotr Kakhovsky in a letter to General Levashev, mentioned the anecdote and denied it:\n\n\"The story told to Your Excellency that, in the uprising of 14 December the rebels were shouting 'Long live the Constitution!' and that the people were asking 'What is Constitution, the wife of His Highness the Grand Duke?' is not true. It is an amusing invention.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6325704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6325704", "title": "Edmund Burke Society", "text": "Edmund Burke Society\n\nIn Canada, The Edmund Burke Society was a right-wing populist organization formed by Paul Fromm, Don Andrews, and Leigh Smith in 1967 at the University of Toronto. The group presented a front of being anti-communist and promoting traditionalist values in order to recruit members into its real agenda. Its members soon became involved in violent confrontations with anti-war groups and leftists in Toronto.\n\nThe group's main focus was opposition to the New Left and other left wing tendencies that were prominent during the period and which the Burkers identified with Communism. During the 1968 federal election, they distributed leaflets accusing the new Liberal Prime Minister, Pierre Trudeau, of being a communist. The \"Burkers\" were involved in disrupting various left-wing events and rallies, often violently. In 1970, the group disrupted a speech by William Kunstler resulting in the Chicago Seven's lawyer drenching EBSer Paul Fromm with a pitcher of water. A melee between Burkers and Kunstler's supporters ensued and Fromm was knocked unconscious to the floor. According to a report by the Security Intelligence Review Committee, In 1971, one Burker, Geza Matrai, a Hungarian refugee, attacked Soviet Premier Alexei Kosygin during his visit to Canada. Matrai jumped on Kosygin's back, dragging him halfway to the ground before being arrested.\n\nEBS members joined the small Ontario Social Credit Party in the early 1970s and took it over by 1972. The Social Credit Party of Canada expelled them resulting in two rival Ontario Social Credit parties existing for several years. In 1971, three of five Ontario Social Credit candidates in the 1971 provincial election were identified as EBS members.\n\nIn 1972 the Edmund Burke Society, as the result of major internal clashes over political metrology and fundamental ideology, self-destructed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30232211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30232211", "title": "Eileen Donahoe", "text": "Eileen Donahoe\n\nEileen Chamberlain Donahoe is a former U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva, Switzerland, having been appointed by President Barack Obama in 2009. (She was the first ambassador following the referent UN body changing from the predecessor United Nations Commission on Human Rights.) After serving her term as ambassador, Donahoe was appointed as Director of Global Affairs for Human Rights Watch. In 2014, she was also appointed to the board of International Service for Human Rights. She is also a former affiliate of Stanford University's Center for International Security and Cooperation.\n\nDr. Donahoe holds a bachelor's degree in American Studies from Dartmouth College, and she received her JD and master's degree in East Asian Studies from Stanford. She also earned a master's degree in Theological Studies from Harvard University, and a Ph.D. in Ethics and Social Theory from the Graduate Theological Union, an affiliate of University of California, Berkeley.\n\n\nShe is married to former eBay CEO, current ServiceNow President and CEO and PayPal Chairman John Donahoe. They have four children, three sons and a daughter, and live in Portola Valley, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "45676727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45676727", "title": "Electoral districts of Estonia", "text": "Electoral districts of Estonia\n\nThe Estonian Riigikogu, or Parliament, is made up of 101 members, elected from 12 separate geographic areas, or electoral districts. The constituency division is based on the counties of Estonia, of which some are combined or divided depending on the size of the population. The capital city Tallinn is divided into three electoral districts based on administrative districts within the city. In the elections to the European Parliament, Estonia has only one national electoral district.\n"}
{"id": "1200252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1200252", "title": "First Red Scare", "text": "First Red Scare\n\nThe First Red Scare was a period during the early 20th-century history of the United States marked by a widespread fear of Bolshevism and anarchism, due to real and imagined events; real events included the Russian Revolution and anarchist bombings. At its height in 1919–1920, concerns over the effects of radical political agitation in American society and the alleged spread of communism and anarchism in the American labor movement fueled a general sense of concern.\n\nThe Scare had its origins in the hyper-nationalism of World War I as well as the Russian Revolution. At the war's end, following the October Revolution, American authorities saw the threat of Communist revolution in the actions of organized labor, including such disparate cases as the Seattle General Strike and the Boston Police Strike and then in the bombing campaign directed by anarchist groups at political and business leaders. Fueled by labor unrest and the anarchist bombings, and then spurred on by United States Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer's attempt to suppress radical organizations, it was characterized by exaggerated rhetoric, illegal search and seizures, unwarranted arrests and detentions, and the deportation of several hundred suspected radicals and anarchists. In addition, the growing anti-immigration nativism movement among Americans viewed increasing immigration from Southern Europe and Eastern Europe as a threat to American political and social stability.\n\nBolshevism and the threat of a Communist-inspired revolution in the U.S. became the overriding explanation for challenges to the social order, even such largely unrelated events as incidents of interracial violence. Fear of radicalism was used to explain the suppression of freedom of expression in form of display of certain flags and banners. The First Red Scare effectively ended in mid-1920, after Attorney General Palmer forecast a massive radical uprising on May Day and the day passed without incident.\n\nThe First Red Scare's immediate cause was the increase in subversive actions (both real and imagined) of foreign and leftist elements in the United States, especially militant followers of Luigi Galleani, and in the attempts of the U.S. government to quell protest and gain favorable public views of America's entering World War I. At the end of the 19th century and prior to the rise of the Galleanist anarchist movement, the Haymarket affair of 1886 had already heightened the American public's fear of foreign anarchist and radical socialist elements within the budding American workers' movement. In 1917, President Woodrow Wilson established the Committee on Public Information to circulate and distribute anti-German and pro-Allied propaganda and other news. To add to the effectiveness of the Committee, the Bureau of Investigation (the name for the Federal Bureau of Investigation until 1935) disrupted the work of German-American, union, and leftist organizations through the use of raids, arrests, agents provocateurs, and legal prosecution. Revolutionary and pacifist groups, such as the Socialist Party of America and the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW; its members are known as \"Wobblies\"), strongly opposed the war. Many leaders of these groups, most notably Eugene V. Debs, were prosecuted for giving speeches urging resistance to the draft. Members of the Ghadar Party were also put on trial in the Hindu–German Conspiracy Trial.\n\nThe effort was also helped by the United States Congress, with the passing of the Espionage Act in 1917, the Sedition Act of 1918, and the Immigration Act of 1918. The Espionage Act made it a crime to interfere with the operation or success of the military, and the Sedition Act forbade Americans to use \"disloyal, profane, scurrilous, or abusive language\" about the United States government, flag, or armed forces of the United States during war. The Immigration Act of 1918 targeted anarchists by name and was used to deport Emma Goldman and Luigi Galleani, among others.\n\nAfter the war officially ended, the government investigations abated for a few months but did not cease. They soon resumed in the context of the Russian Revolution of 1917, the Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War, and the Red Terror. To some Americans, this was a time of uncertainty and fear over the prospects of an anarchist, socialist or communist revolution in the United States.\n\nOn January 21, 1919, 35,000 shipyard workers in Seattle went on strike seeking wage increases. They appealed to the Seattle Central Labor Council for support from other unions and found widespread enthusiasm. Within two weeks, more than 100 local unions joined in a call on February 3 for general strike to begin on the morning of February 6. The 60,000 total strikers paralyzed the city's normal activities, like streetcar service, schools, and ordinary commerce, while their General Strike Committee maintained order and provided essential services, like trash collection and milk deliveries.\n\nEven before the strike began, the press begged the unions to reconsider. In part they were frightened by some of labor's rhetoric, like the labor newspaper editorial that proclaimed: \"We are undertaking the most tremendous move ever made by labor in this country  ... We are starting on a road that leads – NO ONE KNOWS WHERE!\" Daily newspapers saw the general strike as a foreign import: \"This is America – not Russia,\" one said when denouncing the general strike. The non-striking part of Seattle's population imagined the worst and stocked up on food. Hardware stores sold their stock of guns.\n\nSeattle Mayor Ole Hanson announced that he had 1500 police and 1500 federal troops on hand to put down any disturbances. He personally oversaw their deployment throughout the city. \"The time has come,\" he said, \"for the people in Seattle to show their Americanism  ... The anarchists in this community shall not rule its affairs.\" He promised to use them to replace striking workers, but never carried out that threat.\n\nMeanwhile the national leadership of the American Federation of Labor (AFL) and international leaders of some of the Seattle locals recognized how inflammatory the general strike was proving in the eyes of the American public and Seattle's middle class. Press and political reaction made the general strike untenable, and they feared Seattle labor would lose gains made during the war if it continued. The national press called the general strike \"Marxian\" and \"a revolutionary movement aimed at existing government.\" \"It is only a middling step,\" said the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"from Petrograd to Seattle.\"\n\nAs early as February 8 some unions began to return to work at the urging of their leaders. Some workers went back to work as individuals, perhaps fearful of losing their jobs if the Mayor acted on his threats or in reaction to the pressure of life under the general strike. The executive committee of the General Strike Committee first recommended ending the general strike on February 8 but lost that vote. Finally on February 10, the General Strike Committee voted to end the strike the next day. The original strike in the shipyards continued.\n\nThough the general strike collapsed because labor leadership viewed it as a misguided tactic from the start, Mayor Hanson took credit for ending the five-day strike and was hailed by the press. He resigned a few months later and toured the country giving lectures on the dangers of \"domestic bolshevism.\" He earned $38,000 in seven months, five times his annual salary as mayor. He published a pamphlet called \"Americanism versus Bolshevism\".\n\nThe Overman Committee was a special five-man subcommittee of the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary chaired by North Carolina Democrat Lee Slater Overman. First charged with investigating German subversion during World War I, its mandate was extended on February 4, 1919, just a day after the announcement of the Seattle General Strike, to study \"any efforts being made to propagate in this country the principles of any party exercising or claiming to exercise any authority in Russia\" and \"any effort to incite the overthrow of the Government of this country. The Committee's hearings into Bolshevik propaganda, conducted from February 11 to March 10, 1919, developed an alarming image of Bolshevism as an imminent threat to the U.S. government and American values. The Committee's final report appeared in June 1919.\n\nArchibald E. Stevenson, a New York attorney with ties to the Justice Department, probably as a \"volunteer spy\", testified on January 22, 1919, during the German phase of the subcommittee's work. He established that anti-war and anti-draft activism during World War I, which he described as pro-German activity, had now transformed itself into propaganda \"developing sympathy for the Bolshevik movement\". America's wartime enemy, though defeated, had exported an ideology that now ruled Russia and threatened America anew. \"The Bolsheviki movement is a branch of the revolutionary socialism of Germany. It had its origin in the philosophy of Marx and its leaders were Germans.\" He cited the propaganda efforts of John Reed and gave many examples from the foreign press. He told the Senators that \"We have found money coming into this country from Russia.\"\n\nThe Senators were particularly interested in how Bolshevism had united many disparate elements on the left, including anarchists and socialists of many types, \"providing a common platform for all these radical groups to stand on.\" Senator Knute Nelson, Republican of Minnesota, responded by enlarging Bolshevism's embrace to include an even larger segment of political opinion: \"Then they have really rendered a service to the various classes of progressives and reformers that we have here in this country.\" Other witnesses described the horrors of the revolution in Russia and the consequences of a comparable revolution in the United States: the imposition of atheism, the seizure of newspapers, assaults on banks, and the abolition of the insurance industry. The Senators heard various views of women in Russia, including claims that women were made the property of the state.\n\nThe press reveled in the investigation and the final report, referring to the Russians as \"assassins and madmen,\" \"human scum,\" \"crime mad,\" and \"beasts.\" The occasional testimony by some who viewed the Russian Revolution favorably lacked the punch of its critics. One extended headline in February read:\n\nOn the release of the final report, newspapers printed sensational articles with headlines in capital letters: \"Red Peril Here\", \"Plan Bloody Revolution\", and \"Want Washington Government Overturned.\"\n\nThere were several anarchist bombings in 1919.\n\nIn late April 1919, approximately 36 booby trap bombs were mailed to prominent politicians, including the Attorney General of the United States, judges, businessmen (including John D. Rockefeller), and a Bureau of Investigation field agent, R.W. Finch, who happened to be investigating the \"Galleanist\" organization.\n\nThe bombs were mailed in identical packages and were timed to arrive on May Day, the day of celebration of organized labor and the working class. A few of the packages went undelivered because they lacked sufficient postage. One bomb intended for Seattle Mayor Ole Hanson, who had opposed the Seattle General Strike, arrived early and failed to explode as intended. Seattle police in turn notified the Post Office and other police agencies. On April 29, a package sent to U.S. Senator Thomas W. Hardwick of Georgia, a sponsor of the Anarchist Exclusion Act, exploded injuring his wife and housekeeper. On April 30, a post office employee in New York City recognized 16 packages by their wrapping and interrupted their delivery. Another twelve bombs were recovered before reaching their targets.\n\nIn June 1919, eight bombs, far larger than those mailed in April, exploded almost simultaneously in several U.S. cities. These new bombs were believed to contain up to twenty-five pounds of dynamite, and all were wrapped or packaged with heavy metal slugs designed to act as shrapnel. All of the intended targets had participated in some way with the investigation of or the opposition to anarchist radicals. Along with Attorney General Palmer, who was targeted a second time, the intended victims included a Massachusetts state representative and a New Jersey silk manufacturer. Fatalities included a New York City night watchman, William Boehner, and one of the bombers, Carlo Valdinoci, a \"Galleanist\" radical who died in spectacular fashion when the bomb he placed at the home of Attorney General Palmer exploded in his face. Though not seriously injured, Attorney General Palmer and his family were thoroughly shaken by the blast, and their home was largely demolished.\n\nAll of the bombs were delivered with pink flyers bearing the title \"Plain Words\" that accused the intended victims of waging class war and promised: \"We will destroy to rid the world of your tyrannical institutions.\" Police and the Bureau of Investigation tracked the flyer to a print shop owned by an anarchist, Andrea Salcedo, but never obtained sufficient evidence for a prosecution. Evidence from Valdonoci's death, bomb components, and accounts from participants later tied both bomb attacks to the \"Galleanists\". Though some of the \"Galleanists\" were deported or left the country voluntarily, attacks by remaining members continued until 1932.\n\nThe American labor movement had been celebrating its May Day holiday since the 1890s and had seen none of the violence associated with the day's events in Europe. On May 1, 1919, the left mounted especially large demonstrations, and violence greeted the normally peaceful parades in Boston, New York, and Cleveland. In Boston, police tried to stop a march that lacked a permit. In the ensuing melee both sides fought for possession of the Socialists' red flags. One policeman was stabbed and killed. William Sidis was arrested. Later a mob attacked the Socialist headquarters. Police arrested 114, all from the Socialist side. Each side's newspapers provided uncritical support to their own the next day. In New York, soldiers in uniform burned printed materials at the Russian People's House and forced immigrants to sing the \"Star-Spangled Banner\".\n\nCleveland, Ohio saw the worst violence. Leftists protesting the imprisonment of Eugene V. Debs and promoting the campaign of Charles Ruthenberg, the Socialist candidate for mayor, planned to march through the center of the city. A group of Victory Loan workers, a nationalist organization whose members sold war bonds and thought themselves still at war against all forms of anti-Americanism, tried to block some of the marchers and a melee ensued. A mob ransacked Ruthenberg's headquarters. Mounted police, army trucks, and tanks restored order. Two people died, forty were injured, and 116 arrested. Local newspapers noted that only 8 of those arrested were born in the United States. The city government immediately passed laws to restrict parades and the display of red flags.\n\nWith few dissents, newspapers blamed the May Day marchers for provoking the nationalists' response. The Salt Lake City \"Tribune\" did not think anyone had a right to march. It said: \"Free speech has been carried to the point where it is an unrestrained menace.\" A few, however, thought the marches were harmless and that the marchers' enthusiasm would die down on its own if they were left unmolested.\n\nMore than two dozen American communities, mostly urban areas or industrial centers, saw racial violence in the summer and early fall of 1919. Unlike earlier race riots in U.S. history, the 1919 riots were among the first in which blacks responded with resistance to the white attacks. Martial law was imposed in Charleston, South Carolina, where men of the U.S. Navy led a race riot on May 10. Five white men and eighteen black men were injured in the riot. A Naval investigation found that four U.S. sailors and one civilian—all white men—were responsible for the outbreak of violence. On July 3, the 10th U.S. Cavalry, a segregated African-American unit founded in 1866, was attacked by local police in Bisbee, Arizona.\n\nTwo of the most violent episodes occurred in Washington, D.C. and Chicago. In Washington, D.C., white men, many in military uniforms, responded to the rumored arrest of a black man for rape with four days of mob violence, rioting and beatings of random black people on the street. When police refused to intervene, the black population fought back. When the violence ended, ten whites were dead, including two police officers, and 5 blacks. Some 150 people had been the victims of attacks. The rioting in Chicago started on July 27. Chicago's beaches along Lake Michigan were segregated in practice, if not by law. A black youth who drifted into the area customarily reserved for whites was stoned and drowned. Blacks responded violently when the police refused to take action. Violence between mobs and gangs lasted 13 days. The resulting 38 fatalities included 23 blacks and 15 whites. Injuries numbered 537 injured, and 1,000 black families were left homeless. Some 50 people were reported dead. Unofficial numbers were much higher. Hundreds of mostly black homes and businesses on the South Side were destroyed by mobs, and a militia force of several thousand was called in to restore order.\n\nIn mid-summer, in the middle of the Chicago riots, a \"federal official\" told the \"New York Times\" that the violence resulted from \"an agitation, which involves the I.W.W., Bolshevism and the worst features of other extreme radical movements.\" He supported that claim with copies of negro publications that called for alliances with leftist groups, praised the Soviet regime, and contrasted the courage of jailed Socialist Eugene V. Debs with the \"school boy rhetoric\" of traditional black leaders. The \"Times\" characterized the publications as \"vicious and apparently well financed,\" mentioned \"certain factions of the radical Socialist elements,\" and reported it all under the headline: \"Reds Try to Stir Negroes to Revolt.\"\n\nIn mid-October, government sources again provided the \"Times\" with evidence of Bolshevist propaganda targeting America's black communities that was \"paralleling the agitation that is being carried on in industrial centres of the North and West, where there are many alien laborers.\" Vehicles for this propaganda about the \"doctrines of Lenin and Trotzky\" included newspapers, magazines, and \"so-called 'negro betterment' organizations.\" Quotations from such publications contrasted the recent violence in Chicago and Washington, D.C. with \"Soviet Russia, a country in which dozens of racial and lingual types have settled their many differences and found a common meeting ground, a country which no longer oppresses colonies, a country from which the lynch rope is banished and in which racial tolerance and peace now exist.\" The \"Times\" cited one publication's call for unionization: \"Negroes must form cotton workers' unions. Southern white capitalists know that the negroes can bring the white bourbon South to its knees. So go to it.\"\n\nThe American Federation of Labor (AFL) began granting charters to police unions in June 1919 when pressed to do so by local groups, and in just 5 months had recognized affiliate police unions in 37 cities. The Boston police rank and file went out on strike on September 9, 1919 in order to achieve recognition for their union and improvements in wages and working conditions. Police Commissioner Edwin Upton Curtis denied that police officers had any right to form a union, much less one affiliated with a larger organization like the AFL. During the strike, Boston experienced two nights of lawlessness until several thousand members of the State Guard supported by volunteers restored order, though not without causing several deaths. The public, fed by lurid press accounts and hyperbolic political observers, viewed the strike with a degree of alarm out of proportion to the events, which ultimately produced only about $35,000 of property damage.\n\nThe strikers were called \"deserters\" and \"agents of Lenin.\" The Philadelphia \"Public Ledger\" viewed the Boston violence in the same light as many other of 1919's events: \"Bolshevism in the United States is no longer a specter. Boston in chaos reveals its sinister substance.\" President Woodrow Wilson, speaking from Montana, branded the walkout \"a crime against civilization\" that left the city \"at the mercy of an army of thugs.\" The timing of the strike also happened to present the police union in the worst light. September 10, the first full day of the strike, was also the day a huge New York City parade celebrated the return of Gen. John J. Pershing, the hero of the American Expeditionary Force.\n\nA report from Washington, D.C. included this headline: \"Senators Think Effort to Sovietize the Government Is Started.\" Senator Henry Cabot Lodge saw in the strike the dangers of the national labor movement: \"If the American Federation of Labor succeeds in getting hold of the police in Boston it will go all over the country, and we shall be in measurable distance of Soviet government by labor unions.\" The \"Ohio State Journal\" opposed any sympathetic treatment of the strikers: \"When a policeman strikes, he should be debarred not only from resuming his office, but from citizenship as well. He has committed the unpardonable sin; he has forfeited all his rights.\"\n\nSamuel Gompers of the AFL recognized that the strike was damaging labor in the public mind and advised the strikers to return to work. The Police Commissioner, however, remained adamant and refused to re-hire the striking policemen. He was supported by Massachusetts Governor Calvin Coolidge, whose rebuke of Gompers earned him a national reputation. Famous as a man of few words, he put the anti-union position simply: \"There is no right to strike against the public safety, anywhere, anytime.\"\n\nThe strike proved another setback for labor and the AFL immediately withdrew its recognition of police unions. Coolidge won the Republican nomination for Vice-President in the 1920 presidential election in part due to his actions during the Boston Police Strike.\n\nThough the leadership of the American Federation of Labor (AFL) opposed a strike in the steel industry, 98% of their union members voted to strike beginning on September 22, 1919. It shut down half the steel industry, including almost all mills in Pueblo, Colorado; Chicago, Illinois; Wheeling, West Virginia; Johnstown, Pennsylvania; Cleveland, Ohio; Lackawanna, New York; and Youngstown, Ohio.\n\nThe owners quickly turned public opinion against the AFL. As the strike began, they published information exposing AFL National Committee co-chairman William Z. Foster's radical past as a Wobbly and syndicalist, and claimed this was evidence that the steelworker strike was being masterminded by radicals and revolutionaries. The steel companies played on nativist fears by noting that a large number of steelworkers were immigrants. Public opinion quickly turned against the striking workers. State and local authorities backed the steel companies. They prohibited mass meetings, had their police attack pickets and jailed thousands. After strikebreakers and police clashed with unionists in Gary, Indiana, the U.S. Army took over the city on October 6, 1919, and martial law was declared. National guardsmen, leaving Gary after federal troops had taken over, turned their anger on strikers in nearby Indiana Harbor, Indiana.\n\nSteel companies also turned toward strikebreaking and rumor-mongering to demoralize the picketers. They brought in between 30,000 and 40,000 African-American and Mexican-American workers to work in the mills. Company spies also spread rumors that the strike had collapsed elsewhere, and they pointed to the operating steel mills as proof that the strike had been defeated.\n\nCongress conducted its own investigation, focused on radical influence upon union activity. In that context, U.S. Senator Kenneth McKellar, a member of the Senate committee investigating the strike, proposed making one of the Philippine Islands a penal colony to which those convicted of an attempt to overthrow the government could be deported.\n\nThe Chicago mills gave in at the end of October. By the end of November, workers were back at their jobs in Gary, Johnstown, Youngstown, and Wheeling. The strike collapsed on January 8, 1920, though it dragged on in isolated areas like Pueblo and Lackawanna.\n\nThe United Mine Workers under John L. Lewis announced a strike for November 1, 1919. They had agreed to a wage agreement to run until the end of World War I and now sought to capture some of their industry's wartime gains. Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer invoked the Lever Act, a wartime measure that made it a crime to interfere with the production or transportation of necessities. The law, meant to punish hoarding and profiteering, had never been used against a union. Certain of united political backing and almost universal public support, Palmer obtained an injunction on October 31 and 400,000 coal workers struck the next day. He claimed the President authorized the action, following a meeting with the severely ill President in the presence of his doctor. Palmer also asserted that the entire Cabinet had backed his request for an injunction. That infuriated Secretary of Labor Wilson who had opposed Palmer's plan and supported Gompers' view of the President's promises when the Act was under consideration. The rift between the Attorney General and the Secretary of Labor was never healed, which had consequences the next year when Palmer's attempts to deport radicals were frustrated by the Department of Labor.\n\nSamuel Gompers, President of the American Federation of Labor, protested that President Wilson and members of his Cabinet had provided assurances when the Act was passed that it would not be used to prevent strikes by labor unions. He provided detailed accounts of his negotiations with representatives of the administration, especially Secretary of Labor William B. Wilson. He also argued that the end of hostilities, even in the absence of a signed treaty, should have invalidated any attempts to enforce the Act's provisions. Nevertheless, he attempted to mediate between Palmer and Lewis, but after several days called the injunction \"so autocratic as to stagger the human mind.\" The coal operators smeared the strikers with charges that Lenin and Trotsky had ordered the strike and were financing it, and some of the press echoed that language. Others used words like \"insurrection\" and \"Bolshevik revolution.\" Eventually Lewis, facing criminal charges and sensitive to the propaganda campaign, withdrew his strike call, though many strikers ignored his action. As the strike dragged on into its third week, coal supplies were running low and public sentiment was calling for ever stronger government action. Final agreement came on December 10.\n\nDespite two attempts on his life in April and June 1919, Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer moved slowly to find a way to attack the source of the violence. An initial raid in July 1919 against a small anarchist group in Buffalo failed when a federal judge tossed out his case. In August, he organized the General Intelligence Unit within the Department of Justice and recruited J. Edgar Hoover, a recent law school graduate, to head it. Hoover pored over arrest records, subscription records of radical newspapers, and party membership records to compile lists of resident aliens for deportation proceedings. On October 17, 1919, just a year after the Immigration Act of 1918 had expanded the definition of aliens that could be deported, the U.S. Senate demanded Palmer explain his failure to move against radicals.\n\nPalmer launched his campaign against radicalism with two sets of police actions known as the Palmer Raids in November 1919 and January 1920. Federal agents supported by local police rounded up large groups of suspected radicals, often based on membership in a political group rather than any action taken. Undercover informants and warrantless wiretaps (authorized under the Sedition Act) helped to identify several thousand suspected leftists and radicals to be arrested.\n\nOnly the dismissal of most of the cases by Acting United States Secretary of Labor Louis Freeland Post limited the number of deportations to 556. Fearful of extremist violence and revolution, the American public supported the raids. Civil libertarians, the radical left, and legal scholars raised protests. Officials at the Department of Labor, especially Post, asserted the rule of law in opposition to Palmer's anti-radical campaign. Post faced a Congressional threat to impeach or censure him. He successfully defended his actions in two days of testimony before the House Rules Committee in June 1919 and no action was ever taken against him. Palmer testified before the same committee, also for two days, and stood by the raids, arrests, and deportation program. Much of the press applauded Post's work at Labor, while Palmer, rather than President Wilson, was largely blamed for the negative aspects of the raids.\n\nOn December 21, the \"Buford\", a ship the press nicknamed the \"Soviet Ark\", left New York harbor with 249 deportees. Of those, 199 had been detained in the November Palmer Raids, with 184 of them deported because of their membership in the Union of Russian Workers, an anarchist group that was a primary target of the November raids. Others on board, including the well-known radical leaders Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman, had not been taken in the Palmer Raids. Goldman had been convicted in 1893 of \"inciting to riot\" and arrested on many other occasions. Berkman had served 14 years in prison for the attempted murder of industrialist Henry Clay Frick in 1892. Both were convicted in 1917 of interfering with military recruitment. Some of the 249 were leftists or anarchists or at least fell within the legal definition of anarchist because they \"believed that no government would be better for human society than any kind of government.\" In beliefs they ranged from violent revolutionaries to pacifist advocates of non-resistance. Others belonged to radical organizations but disclaimed knowledge of the organization's political aims and had joined to take advantage of educational programs and social opportunities.\n\nThe U.S. War Department used the \"Buford\" as a transport ship in the Spanish–American War and in World War I and loaned it to the Department of Labor in 1919 for the deportation mission. A \"strong detachment of marines\" numbering 58 enlisted men and four officers made the journey and pistols were distributed to the crew. Its final destination was unknown as it sailed under sealed orders. Even the captain only learned his final destination while in Kiel harbor for repairs, since the State Department found it difficult to make arrangements to land in Latvia. Finland, though chosen, was not an obvious choice, since Finland and Russia were at war.\n\nThe notoriety of Goldman and Berkman as convicted anti-war agitators allowed the press and public to imagine that all the deportees had similar backgrounds. \"The New York Times\" called them all \"Russian Reds\". Most of the press approved enthusiastically. The Cleveland \"Plain Dealer\" wrote: \"It is hoped and expected that other vessels, larger, more commodious, carrying similar cargoes, will follow in her wake.\" The New York \"Evening Mail\" said: \"Just as the sailing of the Ark that Noah built was a pledge for the preservation of the human race, so the sailing of the Ark of the Soviet is a pledge for the preservation of America.\" Goldman later wrote a book about her experiences after being deported to Russia, called \"My Disillusionment in Russia\".\n\nOn January 7, 1920, at the first session of the New York State Assembly, Assembly Speaker Thaddeus C. Sweet attacked the Assembly's five Socialist members, declaring they had been \"elected on a platform that is absolutely inimical to the best interests of the state of New York and the United States.\" The Socialist Party, Sweet said, was \"not truly a political party,\" but was rather \"a membership organization admitting within its ranks aliens, enemy aliens, and minors.\" It had supported the revolutionaries in Germany, Austria, and Hungary, he continued, and consorted with international Socialist parties close to the Communist International. The Assembly suspended the five by a vote of 140 to 6, with just one Democrat supporting the Socialists. A trial in the Assembly, lasting from January 20 to March 11, resulted in a recommendation that the five be expelled and the Assembly voted overwhelmingly for expulsion on April 1, 1920.\n\nOpposition to the Assembly's actions was widespread and crossed party lines. From the start of the process, former Republican Governor, Supreme Court Justice, and presidential candidate Charles Evans Hughes defended the Socialist members: \"Nothing  ... is a more serious mistake at this critical time than to deprive Socialists or radicals of their opportunities for peaceful discussion and thus to convince them that the Reds are right and that violence and revolution are the only available means at their command.\" Democratic Governor Al Smith denounced the expulsions: \"To discard the method of representative government leads to the misdeeds of the very extremists we denounce and serves to increase the number of enemies of orderly free government.\" Hughes also led a group of leading New York attorneys in a protest that said: \"We have passed beyond the stage in political development when heresy-hunting is a permitted sport.\"\n\nAmerica's newspapers continually reinforced their readers' pro-American views and presented a negative attitude toward the Soviet Union and communism. They presented a threat of imminent conflict with the Soviet Union that would be justified by the clash with American ideals and goals.\n\nIn addition, when \"The New York Times\" reported positively about the Soviet Union, it received less attention from the public than when it reported antagonistically about it. This did not hold true when Soviet interests agreed with American ones. As a result of this, the \"Times\" had a tendency to use exaggerated headlines, weighted words, and questionable sources in order to create a negative slant against the Soviets and communism. The tendency was to be very pro-American and theatrical in their coverage.\n\nThe Red Scare led to the Western popularization of \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\". The text was purportedly brought to the United States by a Russian army officer in 1917; it was translated into English by Natalie de Bogory (personal assistant of Harris A. Houghton, an officer of the Department of War) in June 1918, and White Russian expatriate Boris Brasol soon circulated it in American government circles, specifically diplomatic and military, in typescript form, It also appeared in 1919 in the \"Public Ledger\" as a pair of serialized newspaper articles. But all references to \"Jews\" were replaced with references to \"Bolsheviki\" as an exposé by the journalist—and subsequently highly respected Columbia University School of Journalism dean—Carl W. Ackerman. Shortly thereafter it was adapted as \"The International Jew\" series in The Dearborn Independent, establishing the myth of Jewish Bolshevism. \n\nAmerica's film industry reflected and exploited every aspect of the public's fascination with and fear of Bolshevism. \"The German Curse in Russia\" dramatized the German instigation of Russia's October Revolution. The Soviet nationalization of women was central to the plot of \"The New Moon\", in which women between the ages of 23 and 32 are the property of the state and the heroine, Norma Talmadge, is a Russian princess posing as a peasant during the Russian Revolution. Similarly, in \"The World and Its Woman\" starring Geraldine Farrar, the daughter of an American engineer working in Russia becomes an opera star and has to fend off attempts to \"nationalize\" her.\n\nSeveral films used labor troubles as their setting, with an idealistic American hero and heroine struggling to outwit manipulative left-wing agitators. \"Dangerous Hours\" tells the story of an attempted Russian infiltration of American industry. College graduate John King is sympathetic to the left in a general way. Then he is seduced, both romantically and politically, by Sophia Guerni, a female agitator. Her superior is the Bolshevik Boris Blotchi, who has a \"wild dream of planting the scarlet seed of terrorism in American soil.\" Sofia and Boris turn their attention to the Weston shipyards that are managed by John's childhood sweetheart, May. The workers have valid grievances, but the Bolsheviks set out to manipulate the situation. They are \"the dangerous element following in the wake of labor as riffraff and ghouls follow an army.\" When they threaten May, John has an epiphany and renounces revolutionary doctrine.\n\nA reviewer in \"Picture Play\" protested the film's stew of radical beliefs and strategies: \"Please, oh please, look up the meaning of the words 'bolshevik' and 'soviet.' Neither of them mean [sic] 'anarchist,' 'scoundrel' or 'murderer' – really they don't!\"\n\nSome films just used Bolsheviks for comic relief, where they are easily seduced (\"The Perfect Woman\") or easily inebriated (\"Help Yourself\"). In \"Bullin the Bullsehviks\" an American named Lotta Nerve outwits Trotsky. New York State Senator Clayton R. Lusk spoke at the film's New York premiere in October 1919. Other films used one feature or another of radical philosophy as the key plot point: anarchist violence (\"The Burning Question\"), assassination and devotion to the red flag (\"The Volcano\"), utopian vision (\"Bolshevism on Trial\").\n\nThe advertising for \"Bolshevism on Trial\" called it \"the timeliest picture ever filmed\" and reviews were good. \"Powerful, well-knit with indubitably true and biting satire,\" said \"Photoplay\". As a promotion device, the April 15, 1919, issue of \"Moving Picture World\" suggested staging a mock radical demonstration by hanging red flags around town and then have actors in military uniforms storm in to tear them down. The promoter was then to distribute handbills to the confused and curious crowds to reassure them that \"Bolshevism on Trial\" takes a stand against Bolshevism and \"you will not only clean up but will profit by future business.\" When this publicity technique came to the attention of U.S. Secretary of Labor William B. Wilson, he expressed his dismay to the press: \"This publication proposes by deceptive methods of advertising to stir every community in the United States into riotous demonstrations for the purpose of making profits for the moving picture business  ...\" He hoped to ban movies treating Bolshevism and Socialism.\n\nIn 1919 Kansas enacted a law titled \"An act relating to the flag, standard or banner of Bolshevism, anarchy or radical socialism\" in an attempt to punish the display of the most common symbol of radicalism, the red flag. Only Massachusetts (1913) and Rhode Island (1914) passed such \"red flag laws\" earlier. By 1920 they were joined by 24 more states. Some banned certain colors (red or black), or certain expressions (\"indicating disloyalty or belief in anarchy\" or \"antagonistic to the existing government of the United States\"), or certain contexts (\"to overthrow the government by general strike\"), or insignia (\"flag or emblem or sign\"). The \"Yale Law Journal\" mocked the Connecticut law against symbols \"calculated to  ... incite people to disorder,\" anticipating its enforcement at the next Harvard-Yale football game. Ohio exempted college pennants and Wisconsin made an exception for historical museums. Minnesota allowed red flags for railroad and highway warnings. Setting patriotic standards, red flag laws regulated the proper display of the American flag: above all other flags, ahead of all other banners in any parade, or flown only in association with state flags or the flags of friendly nations. Punishment generally included fines from $1,000 to $5,000 and prison terms of 5 to 10 years, occasionally more.\n\nAt the federal level, the Espionage Act of 1917 and the amendments to it in the Sedition Act of 1918 prohibited interference with the war effort, including many expressions of opinion. With that legislation rendered inoperative by the end of World War I, Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer, supported by President Wilson, waged a public campaign in favor of a peacetime version of the Sedition Act without success. He sent a circular outlining his rationale to newspaper editors in January 1919, citing the dangerous foreign-language press and radical attempts to create unrest in African American communities. At one point Congress had more than 70 versions of proposed language and amendments for such a bill, but it took no action on the controversial proposal during the campaign year of 1920.\n\nPalmer called for every state to enact its own version of the Sedition Act. Six states had laws of this sort before 1919 usually aimed at sabotage, but another 20 added them in 1919 and 1920. Usually called \"anti-syndicalist laws,\" they varied in their language, but generally made it a crime to \"destroy organized government\" by one method or another, including \"by the general cessation of industry,\" that is, through a general strike. Many cities had their own versions of these laws, including 20 in the state of Washington alone.\n\nWithin Attorney General Palmer's Justice Department, the General Intelligence Division (GID) headed by J. Edgar Hoover had become a storehouse of information about radicals in America. It had infiltrated many organizations and, following the raids of November 1919 and January 1920, it had interrogated thousands of those arrested and read through boxes of publications and records seized. Though agents in the GID knew there was a gap between what the radicals promised in their rhetoric and what they were capable of accomplishing, they nevertheless told Palmer they had evidence of plans for an attempted overthrow of the U.S. government on May Day 1920.\n\nWith Palmer's backing, Hoover warned the nation to expect the worst: assassinations, bombings, and general strikes. Palmer issued his own warning on April 29, 1920, claiming to have a \"list of marked men\" and said domestic radicals were \"in direct connection and unison\" with European counterparts with disruptions planned for the same day there. Newspapers headlined his words: \"Terror Reign by Radicals, says Palmer\" and \"Nation-wide Uprising on Saturday.\" Localities prepared their police forces and some states mobilized their militias. New York City's 11,000-man police force worked for 32 hours straight. Boston police mounted machine guns on automobiles and positioned them around the city.\n\nThe date came and went without incident. Newspaper reaction was almost uniform in its mockery of Palmer and his \"hallucinations.\" Clarence Darrow called it the \"May Day scare.\" The \"Rocky Mountain News\" asked the Attorney General to cease his alerts: \"We can never get to work if we keep jumping sideways in fear of the bewiskered Bolshevik.\" The \"Boston American\" assessed the Attorney General on May 4:\n\nEverybody is laughing at A. Mitchell Palmer's May Day \"revolution.\" The joke is certainly on A. Mitchell Palmer, but the matter is not wholly a joke. The spectacle of a Cabinet officer going around surrounded with armed guards because he is afraid of his own hand-made bogey is a sorry one, even though it appeals to the humor of Americans. Of course, the terrible \"revolution\" did not come off. Nobody with a grain of sense supposed that it would. Yet, in spite of universal laughter, the people are seriously disgusted with these official Red scares. They cost the taxpayers thousands of dollars spent in assembling soldiers and policemen and in paying wages and expenses to Mr. Palmer's agents. They help to frighten capital and demoralize business, and to make timid men and women jumpy and nervous.\n\nPalmer's embarrassment buttressed Louis Freeland Post's position in opposition to the Palmer raids when he testified before a Congressional Committee on May 7–8.\n\nOnce Palmer's warnings of a May Day attempt to overthrow the government proved false, the anti-Bolshevik hysteria wound down quickly. In testimony before Congress on May 7–8, Louis Freeland Post defended his release of hundreds seized in Palmer's raids so successfully that attempts to impeach or censure him ended. Later in the month, a dozen prominent lawyers including Felix Frankfurter and Roscoe Pound endorsed a report that condemned Palmer's Justice Department for the \"utterly illegal acts committed by those charged with the highest duty of enforcing the laws\" including entrapment, police brutality, prolonged incommunicado detention, and violations of due process in court.\n\nIn June, Massachusetts Federal District Court Judge George Anderson ordered the discharge of twenty more arrested aliens and effectively ended the possibility of additional raids. The conservative \"Christian Science Monitor\" found itself unable to support Palmer any longer, writing on June 25, 1920: \"What appeared to be an excess of radicalism  ... was certainly met with  ... an excess of suppression.\" Leaders of industry voiced similar sentiments, including Charles M. Schwab of Bethlehem Steel, who thought Palmer's activities created more radicals than they suppressed, and T. Coleman du Pont who called the Justice Department's work evidence of \"sheer Red hysteria.\"\n\nAt the Democratic National Convention in July, Palmer never had a chance at winning the nomination. Coolidge, famous for his opposition to the right of police to strike, won a place on the Republican ticket, but the party's nominee, and the eventual winner of the 1920 election, was the U.S. Senator from Ohio, Warren G. Harding. He sounded a very different note in mid-August. An interviewer wrote that \"his jaws fairly snapped\" when he said that \"too much has been said about Bolshevism in America. It is quite true that there are enemies of Government within our borders. However, I believe their number has been greatly magnified. The American workman is not a Bolshevik; neither is the American employer an autocrat.\"\n\nWhen another anarchist bomb exploded on Wall Street in September 1920, newspaper response was comparatively restrained. \"More bombs may be exploded,\" wrote the \"New York Times\", \"Other lives may be taken. But these are only hazards of a war which  ... must be faced calmly.\" If anarchists sought to make people fearful, \"By keeping cool and firm we begin their defeat.\"\n\nNevertheless, the after-effects of the First Red Scare were a major factor in the passage of the Immigration Act of 1924.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3342906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3342906", "title": "FreedomWorks", "text": "FreedomWorks\n\nFreedomWorks is a conservative and libertarian advocacy group based in Washington D.C., United States. FreedomWorks trains volunteers, assists in campaigns, and encourages them to mobilize, interacting with both fellow citizens and their political representatives. It is widely associated with the Tea Party movement.\n\nFreedomWorks originated from a conservative political group founded by David H. Koch and Charles Koch called Citizens for a Sound Economy, which in 2004 split into Americans for Prosperity, led by President Nancy Pfotenhauer, and a remainder group which merged with Empower America and was renamed FreedomWorks, led by President and CEO Matt Kibbe. Dick Armey, Jack Kemp, and C. Boyden Gray served as co-chairmen of the new organization with Bill Bennett focusing on school choice as a Senior Fellow. Empower America had been founded in 1993 by Bennett, former Secretary of HUD Jack Kemp, former Ambassador Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, and former Representative Vin Weber. In December 2006, Steve Forbes joined the FreedomWorks board of directors.\n\nThe \"FreedomWorks\" name was derived from a common Armey saying: \"Freedom works. Freedom is good policy and good politics.\"\n\nOn August 14, 2009, after Armey's leadership of FreedomWorks became a problem to his employer, the lobbying and legal firm of DLA Piper, Armey was forced to resign from his job at DLA Piper. DLA Piper chairman Francis Burch responded that the firm serves clients \"... who support enactment of effective health care reform this year and encourages responsible national debate.\"\n\nArmey disagreed with FreedomWorks president Matt Kibbe's use of FreedomWorks staff for the research and promotion of Kibbe's book, \"Hostile Takeover\", which according to Armey put FreedomWorks's tax-exempt status in jeopardy. Armey has stated, \"what bothered me most ... was that [Kibbe] was asking me to lie, and it was a lie that I thought brought the organization in harm's way.\"\n\nOn November 30, 2012, Armey resigned as chairman of FreedomWorks. Armey told \"Mother Jones\", \"The top management team of FreedomWorks was taking a direction I thought was unproductive, and I thought it was time to move on with my life.\" Armey stipulated that FreedomWorks was to immediately remove his name, image, or signature \"from all its letters, print media, postings, web sites, videos, testimonials, endorsements, fund raising materials, and social media.\" Armey claimed that the split was caused by President and CEO Matt Kibbe's use of FreedomWorks' resources to write a book, \"Hostile Takeover\", which he personally profited from and which he asked Armey and the board to later acknowledge was written without significant resources from FreedomWorks; Kibbe alleged that the split was a result of competing visions for the direction of the organization. The Associated Press reported that in September 2012, Armey agreed to resign by November 2012 in exchange for $8 million in consulting fees paid in annual $400,000 installments, funded by board member Richard J. Stephenson.\n\nShortly following the split between FreedomWorks and Dick Armey, FreedomWorks again faced public controversy over the creation of a video featuring a panda fellating Hillary Clinton. The video was filmed with two female FreedomWorks employees in costume, one in a panda suit and one wearing a Hillary mask.\n\nKibbe left FreedomWorks in July 2015 to start a new organization, Free the People. Adam Brandon is the current president and CEO.\n\nFreedomWorks is an associate member of the State Policy Network, a U.S. national network of free-market oriented think tanks.\n\nFreedomWorks seeks to identify itself with two schools of thought in terms of effective advertising and marketing: the Austrian School of economics and public choice theory. Through public choice theory, FreedomWorks believes it legitimizes its mission and models itself after the Austrian School.\n\nKibbe, a former aide to Republican Representative Dan Miller and a former staffer at the Republican National Committee, said that the group \"will encourage Republicans – and Democrats – to take positions on issues of individual freedom\". Armey said, \"Ronald Reagan launched a political and intellectual revolution, and the Contract with America expanded it. Today, it's time for the next wave. We have a rare window to make the big ideas of individual ownership and economic opportunity a political reality for all Americans. That's the purpose of FreedomWorks.\"\n\nFreedomWorks views itself as having eight key issues: Budget and Spending; Health Care Reform; Fundamental Tax Reform, Energy and the Environment; Workplace Freedom; School Choice; RedTape, Hidden Taxes, and Regulation, and Medicare, Social Security and Entitlement Reform. According to the FreedomWorks website, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (\"Obamacare\"), is a \"multi-trillion-dollar takeover of health care\".\n\nFreedomWorks helped to astroturf the Tea Party movement, althrought the latter is generally perceived as grassroots. In 2009, FreedomWorks responded to the growing number of Tea party protests across the United States, and became one of several groups active in the \"Tea Party\" tax protests. Three national conservative groups, FreedomWorks, Americans for Prosperity, and DontGo led the tea party movement in April 2009, according to \"The Atlantic\" magazine. FreedomWorks was a lead organizer of the September 12, 2009, Taxpayer March on Washington, also known as the 9/12 Tea Party. In February 2010, FreedomWorks, the FreedomWorks Foundation, and the FreedomWorks Political Action Committee were among the twelve most influential groups in the Tea Party movement, according to the \"National Journal\". In September 2010, FreedomWorks was one of the top five most influential organizations in the Tea Party movement, according to \"The Washington Post\". FreedomWorks and Americans for Prosperity were especially important in creating the Tea Party Movement and in encouraging the movement to focus on climate change, according to the \"Oxford Handbook of Climate Change and Society\". In 2009, FreedomWorks advocated for the defeat of Democratic-sponsored climate change legislation. In 2009, senior reporter Josh Harkinson, writing in \"Mother Jones\" magazine, listed FreedomWorks as a significant climate change denier. In 2010, FreedomWorks helped organize Tea Party protests and passed fliers opposing national climate policy. FreedomWorks promoted the Contract from America, a Tea Party manifesto, which included planks in opposition to the Obama administration's initiatives on health care reform and cap and trade. FreedomWorks sponsored campaigns to block climate legislation as well as Obama's broader agenda.\n\nAmong other activities, FreedomWorks runs boot camps for supporters of Republican candidates. FreedomWorks spent over $10 million on the 2010 elections on campaign paraphernalia alone. The required reading list for new employees includes Saul Alinsky, Frédéric Bastiat and Ayn Rand. Rolling Stone and Talking Points Memo allege that FreedomWorks helps run the Tea Party Patriots. Tea Party Patriots denies this claim. According to a 2010 article in \"The New York Times\", FreedomWorks \"has done more than any other organization to build the Tea Party movement\".\n\nIn the 2010 congressional elections, FreedomWorks endorsed a number of candidates, including Marco Rubio, Pat Toomey, Mike Lee, and Rand Paul. In addition to the aforementioned United States Senate candidates, FreedomWorks endorsed 114 candidates for federal office, of whom seventy won election, an independent study performed by Brigham Young University showed that only FreedomWorks's endorsement had a statistically significant impact on the success of a candidate in the General Election (U.S.).\n\nIn 2011, FreedomWorks ran a number of campaigns targeted at corporate rent-seeking behavior. They campaigned against GE CEO Jeff Immelt who they argue has made GE a rent-seeking corporation. FreedomWorks ran a campaign with the goal of getting Duke Energy to fire their CEO Jim Rodgers, accusing Duke Energy of lobbying for a \"progressive agenda\" to ensure that the company would receive green energy subsidies.\n\nIn addition to their anti-rent seeking campaigns, FreedomWorks has also been active in a number of issue campaigns at the state and national levels. One of these campaigns is the school choice SB1 campaign in Pennsylvania. Additionally, FreedomWorks ran an active grassroots campaign in support of Ohio Governor John Kasich's union reforms. FreedomWorks delivered thousands of yard signs, door-hangers, handouts, and registered conservative voters.\n\nIn 2011, FreedomWorks launched a Super PAC called FreedomWorks for America. The stated purpose of this PAC is to \"empower the leaderless, decentralized community of the tea party movement as it continues its hostile takeover of the GOP establishment\". Its endorsed candidates included Don Stenberg, Ted Cruz, Jeff Flake, and Richard Mourdock.\n\nIn February 2013, FreedomWorks signed onto a memo which said, \"Conservatives should not approve a CR unless it defunds Obamacare.\" On August 14, 2013, Joshua Withrow of FreedomWorks mentioned the continuing resolution set to expire September 30 which \"must be renewed in order for the doors to stay open in Washington. The CR is the best chance we will get to withdraw funds from ObamaCare. This can be done by attaching bills by Senator Ted Cruz (R-TX) or Congressman Tom Graves (R-GA) to the CR, which will totally defund ObamaCare.\" Withrow also wrote \"Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) and Congressman Mark Meadows (R-NC) are leading the charge to get their colleagues to commit to this approach, by putting their signatures to a letter affirming that they will refuse to vote for a CR that contains ObamaCare funding.\" Withrow wrote, \"Support for the Cruz/Graves bills is absolutely meaningless without also signing the Lee/Meadows letter.\"\n\nIn September 2013, FreedomWorks opposed the legislation called Authorization for the Use of Military Force Against the Government of Syria to Respond to Use of Chemical Weapons. This was the first time FreedomWorks took an official stance on foreign policy.\n\nOn February 12, 2014, FreedomWorks joined with Rand Paul as co-plaintiffs in a lawsuit against the Obama Administration concerning reports of NSA domestic wiretapping. The lawsuit names President Obama, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and National Security Agency Director Gen. Keith Alexander. Former Virginia Attorney General Ken Cuccinelli is representing Paul and FreedomWorks in the case.\n\nSome of FreedomWorks' campaigns have been called \"astroturfing\", and some claim that they project a false impression of grassroots organizing.\n\nFreedomWorks supported the Electricity Security and Affordability Act (H.R. 3826; 113th Congress), which was into the House on January 9, 2014. The bill would repeal a pending rule published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on January 8, 2014. The proposed rule would establish uniform national limits on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from new electricity-generating facilities that use coal or natural gas. The rule also sets new standards of performance for those power plants, including the requirement to install carbon capture and sequestration technology. In a blog post, then FreedomWorks president Matt Kibbe said that the bill would go a \"long way in curbing the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) radical war on affordable and reliable energy from fossil fuels\". Kibbe argued that the EPA's proposed rule was \"an obvious backdoor attempt to effectively outlaw coal\" because the standards were set \"well below the emissions levels achieved by even the most advanced coal facilities\".\n\nFreedomWorks supports the Smarter Sentencing Act of 2015, REDEEM Act, and Email Privacy Act. FreedomWorks opposes Net neutrality regulation.\n\nAccording to John Broder of \"The New York Times\", FreedomWorks has been supported by the oil industry. According to the liberal advocacy group Common Cause, FreedomWorks has also received funding from Verizon and SBC (now AT&T). Other FreedomWorks donors have included Philip Morris and foundations controlled by the Scaife family, according to tax filings and other records. FreedomWorks also receives funding through the sale of insurance policies through which policyholders automatically become members of FreedomWorks. In 2012, FreedomWorks had revenue of $15 million, with nearly 60% coming from four donors. In 2012, $12 million in donations from William S. Rose (via two of his companies) were scrutinized by some members of the media. Watchdog groups asked for investigations of the donations, alleging that the companies were created merely to hide the identity of contributors.\n\n"}
{"id": "424569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424569", "title": "Freedom County, Washington", "text": "Freedom County, Washington\n\nFreedom County is a secessionist portion of Snohomish County, Washington, United States declared to exist as of April 23, 1995. Its existence has not been recognized by Snohomish County, the state of Washington, or the federal government. The \"county seat\" is Arlington, Washington.\n\nClaiming frustration at what they believed to be a corrupt Snohomish County government, on April 23, 1995, the Freedom County commissioners submitted to the Washington Secretary of State a petition with 12,679 signatures calling for the secession of the northern half of Snohomish County, excluding Marysville and the Tulalip Indian reservation. On the state constitutional basis that only the legislature can create a new county, and that it cannot be compelled to do so by petition, the government refused to act, and Freedom County remains unrecognized.\n"}
{"id": "51631380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51631380", "title": "Gun Nation", "text": "Gun Nation\n\nGun Nation is a 2016 documentary film directed and produced by British photographer and filmmaker Zed Nelson. The film explores issues surrounding gun ownership, gun violence, and gun culture in the United States and marks 18 years since the director's award-winning photography book of the same name. It was commissioned by \"The Guardian\" and by the Bertha Foundation, executive produced by Charlie Phillips and released online on September 16, 2016. The film was the first production to be screened in the documentary section of \"The Guardian.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1355883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1355883", "title": "Herman Daly", "text": "Herman Daly\n\nHerman Edward Daly (born July 21, 1938) is an American ecological and Georgist economist and emeritus professor at the School of Public Policy of University of Maryland, College Park in the United States.\n\nBefore joining the World Bank, Daly was a Research Associate at Yale University, and Alumni Professor of Economics at Louisiana State University.\n\nDaly was Senior Economist in the Environment Department of the World Bank, where he helped to develop policy guidelines related to sustainable development. While there, he was engaged in environmental operations work in Latin America. He is closely associated with theories of a steady-state economy. He was a co-founder and associate editor of the journal, \"Ecological Economics\".\n\nIn 1989 Daly and John B. Cobb developed the Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare (ISEW), which they proposed as a more valid measure of socio-economic progress than gross domestic product.\n\nDaly is a recipient of an Honorary Right Livelihood Award, the Heineken Prize for Environmental Science from the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, the 1992 University of Louisville Grawemeyer Award for Ideas Improving World Order, the Sophie Prize (Norway), the Leontief Prize from the Global Development and Environment Institute, and was chosen as Man of the Year 2008 by \"Adbusters\" magazine. He is widely credited with having originated the idea of uneconomic growth, though some credit this to Marilyn Waring who developed it more completely in her study of the UN System of National Accounts. In 2014, Daly was the recipient of the Blue Planet Prize of the Asahi Glass Foundation.\n\nDaly was the editor of a long-lived and influential anthology, originally published in 1973 as \"Toward a Steady-state Economy\", and twice revised (under different titles; see bibliography), in 1980 and 1993. Writers and topics in the original 1973 edition included:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39386650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39386650", "title": "Hungarian Liberal Party", "text": "Hungarian Liberal Party\n\nHungarian Liberal Party (, shortened form Liberals (\"Liberálisok\") or MLP) is a liberal political party in Hungary that was formed on 27 April 2013 and is led by Gábor Fodor, a former MP and president of the Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ).\n\nGábor Fodor announced in January 2013 that he intended to establish a new liberal party in Hungary. He presented his party in April 2013, promising \"more liberal, person-centered and patriotic politics\". He criticized the state's tutelary policy and emphasized, Hungary was then in forefront of the region, when liberalism and the SZDSZ were strong. Fodor also introduced the party's programme with the title of \"Sympathetic liberalism\", breaking away from the \"intellectual arrogance\" of his previous party.\nIn September 2013, the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) declined to sign an election deal with the Democratic Coalition (DK) and Fodor’s liberal party because both parties presented excessive expectations compared to their social support. According to Fodor, the Liberals were ready to enter into a far-reaching compromise with left-leaning opposition parties in order to defeat Viktor Orbán. But after the Socialists and Together 2014 – the grouping led by former PM Gordon Bajnai – opted to stand apart, the Liberals had no other choice but to set off for the 2014 national election on their own. Fodor attended as a public speaker at the opposition demonstration on the 1956 Revolution National Day, where he urged the establishment of a common democratic opposition list for the 2014 parliamentary election, criticizing agreement between the MSZP and Together 2014 and the exclusion of other opposition parties from the cooperation.\n\nDuring the interim mayoral election in Fót, held on November 24, Liberals' candidate Nóra Mária Vargha received the 13 percent of the votes and came to the fifth place. According to Fodor, this result showed that liberal voters require an own party, and lack of cooperation of opposition parties is favorable to the ruling party Fidesz. Later a Budapest court decided the annulment of election results because of a violation of campaign silence rules. On 20 December 2013, Századvég's poll for the first time registers support for the Hungarian Liberal Party, which receives 1% of the vote.\n\nOn 14 January 2014, the Hungarian Liberal Party joined the electoral alliance of left-wing opposition parties, which formed Unity under the leadership of Socialist party chairman Attila Mesterházy. Fodor run as a MP candidate from the fourth place at the alliance's national list. The party also received two additional places (56th and 58th) on the list. Although the Unity suffered a heavy defeat, nevertheless Fodor became a Member of Parliament again after four years and he did not join any parliamentary group.\n\nOn 19 November 2015 the party was admitted into the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.\n\nThe Hungarian Liberal Party (MLP) was the only political party to openly campaign in favour of the compulsory quota system and asked its supporters to vote \"yes\" in the October 2016 migrant quota referendum. The MLP's foreign policy advisor István Szent-Iványi said in August 2016 that the support of \"yes\" votes \"is the only way to stand up for European values, Hungary’s belonging to Europe and European solidarity\", criticizing the behaviour of left-wing parties, which decided to boycott the referendum. Hungarian Liberal Party chairman Gábor Fodor (currently the party’s only MP) submitted a bill in 2017 calling for the legalization and regulation of cannabis in Hungary. In economic terms, the party supports flat tax.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57088805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57088805", "title": "IBM 4767", "text": "IBM 4767\n\nThe IBM 4767 PCIe Cryptographic Coprocessor is a hardware security module (HSM) that includes a secure cryptoprocessor implemented on a high-security, tamper resistant, programmable PCIe board. Specialized cryptographic electronics, microprocessor, memory, and random number generator housed within a tamper-responding environment provide a highly secure subsystem in which data processing and cryptography can be performed. Sensitive key material is never exposed outside the physical secure boundary in a clear format.\n\nThe IBM 4767 is validated to FIPS PUB 140-2 Level 4, the highest level of certification achievable for commercial cryptographic devices. The IBM 4767 data sheet describes the coprocessor in detail.\n\nIBM supplies two cryptographic-system implementations:\n\n\nToolkits for custom application development are also available.\n\nApplications may include financial PIN transactions, bank-to-clearing-house transactions, EMV transactions for integrated circuit (chip) based credit cards, and general-purpose cryptographic applications using symmetric key algorithms, hashing algorithms, and public key algorithms.\n\nThe operational keys (symmetric or RSA private) are generated in the coprocessor and are then saved either in a keystore file or in application memory, encrypted under the master key of that coprocessor. Any coprocessor with an identical master key can use those keys. Performance benefits include the incorporation of elliptic curve cryptography (ECC) and format preserving encryption (FPE) in the hardware.\n\nIBM supports the 4767 on certain IBM Z, IBM POWER Systems, and x86 servers (Linux or Microsoft Windows).\n\n\nAs of April 2016, the IBM 4767 superseded the IBM 4765 that was discontinued.\n\nThe IBM 4767 is supported on all platforms listed above. The successor to the 4767, the IBM 4768, was introduced on IBM Z, where it is called the Crypto Express6S (CEX6S) and is available as feature code 0893.\n\nThese links point to various relevant cryptographic standards.\n\nISO 13491 - Secure Cryptographic Devices: https://www.iso.org/standard/61137.html\n\nISO 9564 - PIN security: https://www.iso.org/standard/68669.html\n\nANSI X9.24 Part 1: Key Management using Symmetric Techniques: https://webstore.ansi.org/RecordDetail.aspx?sku=ANSI+X9.24-1-2017\n\nANSI X9.24 Part 2: Key Management using Asymmetric Techniques: https://webstore.ansi.org/RecordDetail.aspx?sku=ANSI+X9.24-2-2016\n\nFIPS 140-2: https://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.140-2.pdf\n"}
{"id": "11832225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11832225", "title": "Joel Hayward", "text": "Joel Hayward\n\nJoel Hayward (born 1964) is a New Zealand-born British \"noted scholar of war and strategy\", writer and Muslim poet whom the daily newspaper \"Al Kaleej\" calls \"a world authority on international conflict and strategy\".\nHe is best known for his published books and articles on strategic and security matters, including the use of air power, his 2003 biography of Horatio Lord Nelson, his writing and teaching on the Quranic (Islamic) concepts of war, strategy and conflict, and his works of fiction and poetry.\n\nIn November 2012 he became full Professor of International and Civil Security at Khalifa University in Abu Dhabi and in 2013 he became Chair of the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at Khalifa. He also serves there as the Director of the Institute of International and Civil Security. Earlier in 2012, he was a Senior Fellow at the Markfield Institute of Higher Education and a Research Fellow of the Cambridge Muslim College. His career highlights include having been Dean of the Royal Air Force College, Cranwell for five years (2007-2011), a Director of the Royal Air Force Centre for Air Power Studies think-tank for four years (2008-2012), and the academic Head of Air Power Studies at King's College London for six years (2005-2011). He is a Professor of Strategy at the Indonesian Defense University and he holds fellowships from the United States Air Force and the Federal Government of Germany. He is a Fellow of both the Royal Society of Arts and the Royal Historical Society. With the title of Shaykh he has earned ijazas in ʿAqīdah and Sirah.\n\nJoel Hayward was born on 27 May 1964 in Christchurch, New Zealand.\n\nHayward developed an interest in Jewish history and the Hebrew language as a result of his maternal grandmother's Jewishness. He learned Hebrew and made trips to Israel and was a member of a national organization with both Jewish and Christian membership, The New Zealand Friends of Israel, Inc.\n\nIn 1988 Hayward enrolled with the University of Canterbury in Christchurch to pursue a Bachelor of Arts degree in Classics, which he received on 8 May 1991 with papers taken primarily in the Departments of History and Classics.\n\nFollowing the award of his B.A. In Classics, Hayward commenced a Master's Degree program at the University of Canterbury in 1991. He first considered a thesis topic in Ancient History, but was informed by faculty in the Classics Department that he would need to study another year of Greek and Latin first. After consultation with Dr. Vincent Orange, a Reader (equivalent to Associate Professor) in the History Department who became his thesis supervisor, Hayward settled on the topic of the historiography of Holocaust denial. Hayward later stated that this topic combined three of his great interests: World War II, the German language, and Jewish history. Besides his thesis, Hayward was also required for the M.A. degree to complete four honours papers, which he wrote during 1992. The four honours grades together constituted fully half of Hayward's master's program. All four papers underwent examination both internally and externally before their grades (an A-, two As, and an A+) were confirmed.\n\nHayward's thesis was written in 1991, prior to his four honours papers, with the conclusion written in early 1993. Entitled \"The Fate of Jews in German hands: An Historical Enquiry into the Development and Significance of Holocaust Revisionism\", the thesis underwent examination by internal examiner Dr. Vincent Orange of University of Canterbury's History Department and external examiner Professor John Jensen of Waikato University before its grade of A+ was confirmed by Professor W. David McIntyre, Head of the University of Canterbury's History Department.\n\nHayward's M.A. in History with First Class Honours was conferred on 7 May 1993. His thesis was judged the best history thesis of his year and it won him the Sir James Hight Memorial Prize, awarded for \"excellence\", and the honour of wearing the Philip Ross May Gown at the graduation ceremony.\n\nAwarded a scholarship, Hayward went on to pursue a Ph.D. degree, also at University of Canterbury, again under the supervision of Vincent Orange. His topic was an analysis of German air operations during the eastern campaigns of World War II, based on unpublished German archival sources. In 1994, the U.S. Air Force Historical Research Agency, located within the Air University at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, awarded him a research fellowship to conduct research for his dissertation in its archives. He subsequently received a research fellowship from the Federal Government of Germany which enabled him to conduct primary research in the German Military Archives in Freiburg, Germany. Hayward was awarded his Ph.D. in 1996. His dissertation, \"Seeking the Philosopher's Stone: Luftwaffe Operations during Hitler's Drive to the East, 1942–1943\" became the basis of his first book, \"Stopped at Stalingrad: The Luftwaffe and Hitler’s Defeat in the East 1942-1943.\", which was acclaimed upon its publication in 1998.\n\nIn June 1996 Hayward joined the History Department of Massey University (Palmerston North Campus) as a Lecturer (Assistant Professor) in Defence and Strategic Studies, receiving promotion to Senior Lecturer (Associate Professor) in August 1999. He specialized in the theoretical and conceptual aspects of modern warfare, airpower, joint doctrines, and manoeuvre warfare. He continued in that position until June 2002. He was made Head of the Defence and Strategic Studies program.\n\nWhile at Massey, Hayward in 1999 was organizer of New Zealand's largest defence conference, held 21–22 August at Massey University's Turitea campus. The conference, entitled \"Coalitions and Conflict — The Transition of Warfare 1899 to 1999 and Beyond,\" focused on coalition warfare and was jointly hosted by Massey University and the New Zealand Army's Military Studies Institute. Hayward was conference convenor of Massey's third annual defence conference in August 2000, again co-hosted by the New Zealand Army, with discussion focusing on the trend towards integrating the three armed services (army, air force, and navy) under unified command. Hayward also acted as editor of the conference proceedings, a book which took its title from the conference's theme: \"Joint Future? The Move to Jointness and Its Implications for the New Zealand Defence Force\".\n\nFrom 1997 to 2004 he was also a lecturer at the Officer Cadet School of the New Zealand Army, where he taught military history from Alexander the Great to the Balkan Wars, and at the Command and Staff College of the Royal New Zealand Air Force, where he taught airpower history and doctrine and supervised advanced research in military history. During the same period he also taught strategic thought at the Royal New Zealand Naval College. He also wrote academic articles for defence and strategic studies publications.\n\nHayward lived and worked in the United Kingdom from 2004 to 2012 first teaching strategy and operational art at the Joint Services Command and Staff College. In November 2005 he became the head of the newly created Air Power Studies Division, a specialist unit of Defence Studies academics established by the Royal Air Force and King's College London at the Royal Air Force College, Cranwell. Hayward was appointed Dean of the RAF College, Cranwell in April 2007. He was a Director of the Royal Air Force Centre for Air Power Studies, the Air Force's national thinktank. He was also a member of the CAS Air Power Workshop, a small and highly select working group of scholars and other theorists convened by the Chief of Air Staff (the head of the Royal Air Force.)\n\nHe holds fellowships from the United States Air Force and the Federal Government of Germany. He is a member of the editorial advisory boards of the academic journals, \"Air Power Review\" and \"Global War Studies\". Hayward now focuses mainly on ethical aspects of modern warfare. He teaches on air power concepts at various staff colleges and universities throughout Europe and in 2007 taught a course on \"Air Power and Ethics\" in Trondheim, Norway, to the Norwegian Air Force On 13 May 2009 he was a keynote speaker at the 2009 Air Power Asia conference in Singapore, where he spoke on \"Air Power And Ecology: Destruction Of Enemies But Not The Environment\". He convened an international academic conference on that subject — the environmental impact of modern air warfare — in August 2009. In October 2010 he spoke at the Global Peace and Unity (GPU) conference in London, attended by 80,000 people, on the subject: \"War & Ethics: The Compatibility of 'Western' and Islamic Thought\", a subject (Qur'anic military ethics) he also published on during 2010, 2011 and 2012.\n\nHayward has given strategic advice to national political and military leaders in several countries, and has given policy advice to various Islamic sheikhs. He also tutored His Royal Highness Prince William of Wales. In 2011 Hayward was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and in 2012 he was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society.\n\nA Muslim who teaches at anti-extremism workshops, Hayward converted to Islam in 2005. He supports Muslims serving in the British armed forces and is a member of the UK Armed Forces Muslim Association. He has written regular politics-related columns in \"Emel\" and other Islamic magazines. In an article critical of some ostensible Muslim anger seen online, Hayward describes himself as \"a moderate and politically liberal revert who chose to embrace the faith of Islam because of its powerful spiritual truths, its emphasis on peace and justice, its racial and ethnic inclusiveness and its charitable spirit towards the poor and needy.\" In 2010, he wrote the Introduction to Shaykh Muhammad Tahir-ul-Qadri's \"Fatwa on Terrorism and Suicide Bombings\" (London: Minhaj-ul-Quran International). Hayward, who sharply criticizes all Islamic terrorism in the fatwa's introduction, shares Tahir-ul-Qadri's scholarly assessment \"that regardless of any motives, terrorism can never be supported and is in fact condemned by the Holy Quran and the Sunnah.\" In 2011 Qadri appointed Hayward to a senior role as his (and Minhaj-ul-Quran's) Strategic Policy Advisor, although he ceased that role when he moved to the Middle East. Hayward also wrote and formally signed the London Declaration, a Muslim public statement issued under the auspices of Minhaj-ul-Quran which unequivocally condemns all extremism and terrorism, \"because at the heart of all religions is a belief in the sanctity of the lives of the innocent.\" The Declaration adds: \"The indiscriminate nature of terrorism, which has in recent years killed far more civilians and other non-combatants than it has combatants, is un-Islamic, un-Judaic, un-Christian and it is indeed incompatible with the true teachings of all faiths.\" The London Declaration also \"unequivocally condemn[s] anti-Semitism (including when sometimes it is disingenuously clothed as anti-Zionism), Islamophobia (including when it is sometimes disingenuously dressed up as patriotism) and all other forms of racism and xenophobia.\" \n\nIn October 2013, Hayward won substantial damages in a successful libel case against the \"Mail on Sunday\" and the \"Daily Mail\", which had originally criticised what it claimed were Hayward’s Islamic views whilst Dean of the RAF College. The \"Mail\"’s apology of 13 October 2013 stated: \"On 7 and 8 August 2011 we suggested that the beliefs of Dr Joel Hayward, then the Dean of the RAF College Cranwell, prevented him from fulfilling his duty of impartiality and fairness as a teacher in the RAF\" and had caused him \"to show undue favouritism to Islamic students and spend too much time on Islamic activities. We now accept that these allegations are untrue. We apologise to Dr Hayward and have paid a substantial sum to him in damages.\" \n\nIn November 2012, Hayward became full Professor of International and Civil Security in Khalifa University's Institute for International and Civil Security. In 2013 he became Chair of the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences at Khalifa. He also serves there as the Director of the Institute of International and Civil Security. In 2014 he received two ijazas, which are the permission certificates or licenses used by Sunni shaykhs to indicate that they have authorized someone to transmit a certain topic of Islamic knowledge. Hayward also researches comparative religions and studies the scriptures of the three Abrahamic faiths in their original languages (Hebrew, Greek and Arabic). Hayward performed the Hajj pilgrimage in 2014. In 2014 he also joined the Editorial Board of the Islamic Studies journal, \"Islamic Rethink\". On 5 October 2016 he was named as the \"Best Professor of Humanities and Social Sciences\" at the 2016 Middle East Education Leadership Awards. He praises the tolerance and inclusiveness of the UAE: \"Here the Islam that’s practised is gentle and moderate. It’s a beautiful experience to live as a Muslim in the UAE. It’s liberating and wonderful.\"\n\nHayward's 1991 prize-winning M.A. thesis was submitted in 1993 yet was unavailable for public study until 1999. When it became available, it ignited controversy. Hayward was accused of advancing arguments which gave credence to Holocaust deniers. In 2000, at the request of the New Zealand Jewish Council, the University of Canterbury convened a \"Working Party\" which issued a report admonishing the university for inadequately supervising Hayward's work. The report found that Hayward's thesis \"demonstrates impressive industry and intelligence\" and did not \"establish dishonesty\" on his part, but it was also \"seriously flawed\". Subsequent to the issuance of the Working Party's report, the university apologized to the New Zealand Jewish community, as Hayward also had earlier in the year. Hayward has always repudiated the errors in his thesis, saying that they were the result of inadequate scholarly preparation for such a complex topic, but Holocaust deniers initially cited the thesis as evidence of academic support for their positions. In 2000, Holocaust denier David Irving praised Hayward's work as a \"landmark in the turning of the tide in the favour of historical revisionism\".\n\nDespite these issues, Hayward clearly upholds the sound and accepted scholarly assessment of the Holocaust. In 2010 he described it as \"one of history’s vilest crimes … involving the organised murder of millions of Jews\" and in 2011 he similarly wrote: \"The Holocaust of the Jews in the Second World War, one of history’s vilest crimes, involved the organised murder of six million Jews by Germans and others who considered themselves Christians or at least members of the Christian value system.\" Likewise, in his 2012 book, \"Warfare in the Quran\", he criticised \"the undoubted evils of Nazism\". In a 2018 interview, he said: “I can’t help but conclude that humans are, by and large, rather unkind to each other and sometimes utterly hateful. … How else can we explain ordinary German soldiers and paramilitary people murdering six million Jewish civilians in history’s greatest atrocity?” \n\nHayward has authored or co-authored many peer reviewed journal articles pertaining to strategic matters, including \"Stalingrad: An Examination of Hitler’s Decision to Airlift\" which the U.S. Air Force published in both English and Spanish, and \"The Qur’an and War: Observations on Islamic Just War\", published in the official RAF academic journal, \"Air Power Review\", Vol. 13, No. 3, Autumn/Winter 2010, pp. 41–63.\n\nHayward is the author or editor of eight books of non-fiction, including \"Stopped at Stalingrad: The Luftwaffe and Hitler’s Defeat in the East 1942-1943\" (1998 and subsequent editions). An assessment of aerial warfare at the Battle of Stalingrad, \"Stopped at Stalingrad\" was acclaimed upon its release. \"The Readers Guide to Military History\" describes the book as \"a magnificently researched study … [which] provides the best available account of the disastrous Stalingrad airlift.\" The book is \"an advanced and exhaustive work that will become a standard in the field once it is better known.\" It was favorably reviewed in, amongst other places, the \"Times Literary Supplement\" and the journal \"War in History\". In 2015, Hayward published the first Polish translation of this book as \"Zatrzymani pod Stalingradem: Klęska Luftwaffe i Hitlera na wschodzie 1942-1943\".\n\nHayward's biography of naval commander Horatio Lord Nelson, \"For God and Glory: Lord Nelson and His Way of War\" (2003), likewise received positive notices, with one reviewer recommending it as \"a fascinating work of strategic philosophy. ... The result is surprisingly persuasive. [Its arguments] are thought-provoking and, in places, offer fresh ways of understanding what happened.\" It was rated as \"outstanding\" by members of the 2004 University Press Books Committee, a rating defined \"as having exceptional editorial content and subject matter\" and considered essential to most library collections.\n\n\"The Press\" newspaper called his co-authored 2003 book on military leadership, \"Born to Lead\" \"inspirational\" and said that it is \"a ground-breaking collection of essays.\"\n\nHayward's 2009 book \"Air Power, Insurgency and the War on Terror\" was similarly praised. Reviewing it for \"The Journal of Military History\", Michael Robert Terry \"strongly\" recommended it, noting that it provides \"thought provoking reading\" and \"much needed critical thinking\" on the complex utility of air power within counter-insurgency wars.\n\nThe Royal Aal al-Bayt Institute for Islamic Thought's Royal Islamic Strategic Studies Centre in Amman, Jordan, published Hayward's book, \"Warfare in The Qur’an\", in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, the US Air Force published his edited book, \"Air Power and the Environment: the Ecological Implications of Modern Air Warfare\". \"The Gulf Today\" newspaper called it \"innovative\" and a \"ground-breaking book highlighting the environmental impact of the world’s air forces.\" In 2013, the American Library Association selected this book as one of that year’s ‘Notable Government Documents’, an annual award list “designed to recognize excellence and raise awareness of information resources produced by all levels of government and promote their use”.\n\nIn 2017, the Royal Aal al-Bayt Institute for Islamic Thought's Royal Islamic Strategic Studies Centre (RISSC) in Amman, Jordan, published Hayward's short book, \"\"War is Deceit\": An Analysis of a Contentious Hadith on the Morality of Military Deception\".. In 2018, the RISSC published Hayward's monograph, \"Civilian Immunity in Foundational Islamic Strategic Thought: A Historical Enquiry\". in both English and Arabic editions.\n\nIn 2003, Totem Press published Hayward's \"Jenny Green Teeth and Other Short Stories\" (which the \"Evening Standard\" reviewed as \"superb ... Deep, brooding and intense. ... This is storytelling, and New Zealand fiction, at its best\") as well as a volume of poetry called \"Lifeblood\" (which the \"Evening Standard\" reviewed as \"memorable and insightful\"). Hayward once made both volumes available as free downloads through his website,\n\nThe \"Southern Ocean Review\" wrote of \"Jenny Green Teeth\": \"This is a stunning book of short stories, for their sheer variety and depth, and also strength of language. … Hayward writes with an eye to truth and justice and historical accuracy. It is up to us to know what to do with writing as superb as this. Can we learn?\" The \"Chaff\" reviewer wrote of \"Jenny Green Teeth\": \"Hayward's eclectic poetry reflects his enigmatic mind. ... His poems are passionate and full of rich images and exert a strong and dignified intelligence. Hayward exerts a courageous strength, rebelling against his past creative constraints, and in perhaps a flush of originality and ambitious flair, has achieved a work of art.\"\n\nHayward has continued to publish poems steadily over the years, including, recently, in \"Damazine\" and \"Contemporary World Literature\", and his second major collection of poems ― titled \"Splitting the Moon: A Collection of Islamic Poetry\" ― was published by Kube in April 2012. The \"Muslim News\" reviewer wrote: \"Joel Hayward is a very skilful and gifted poet whose way with words is impressive. His poems are easy to understand, highly pertinent and equally spiritually profound. ... They also provide a powerful commentary on the social, political, moral and religious challenges and difficulties currently facing Muslims and non-Muslims alike. ... [Hayward] is able to blend the personal, emotional, spiritual and existential dimensions of human experience, and do so without in any way over-playing or undermining any aspect. This is a very rare skill for a poet to possess.\"\n\nIn 2012 Hayward also published a mini-book, \"No Lamp in the Cave: Three Islamic Short Stories\".\n\nIn 2017 he published his third poetry collection, \"Poems from the Straight Path: A Book of Islamic Verse\". Abdal Hakim Murad, the British sheikh and scholar, praised it: \"Hayward's new collection reveals remarkable range and skill. He stalks his quarry indirectly, startling the reader when he reveals his target. Sacralized by an Islamic incense this is a new and strong English poetic voice.\" Rafey Habib of Rutger's University likewise praised the book: \"In a world where the very word 'Islam' has become the site of intense, loud-voiced, and often violent ideological struggle, the poetry of Joel Hayward offers a world of calm but powerfully poetic reflection on a cluster of themes that lie at the heart of Muslim experiences today. Hayward evokes exquisitely the process of creation, the qualities of God, and the characteristics of His prophet; he enlists powerful metaphors to capture the resonance and conflict between body and soul, using a wealth of sensuous imagery to express spiritual states ... He leads us through the varied semantic reverberations of the call to prayer and pictures the many shapes of jihad. The decline of the Muslim world community and the hypocrisy of religious fanatics are graphically described using dramatic twists and verbal irony. Hayward powerfully portrays the hijacking of Islam, again in striking imagery.\" Reviewing \"Poems from the Straight Path\", the UK magazine \"Passion Islam\" wrote that \"Hayward’s journey of exploration, transformation and illumination forms the beating heart of this moving collection of poetry.\" It called the book \"a timely and important work that reveals the struggle and profound insights of someone bridging cultures and faith traditions.\"\n\nHis fourth poetry collection, \"Pain and Passing: Islamic Poems of Grief and Healing\" (Swansea: Claritas Books), appeared in early 2018. It deals with the death of his wife Kathy. In an interview, Hayward described this as “undoubtedly the hardest book I’ve ever written,\" adding that it was nonetheless a cathartic experience. “After Kathy died I felt I had to write; to release what was fighting inside to get out. I wrote every day, even when tired or busy, and tried to stay responsive to the poems’ need for life.\"\n\nIn 2018, Jordanian publisher Dar Al-Shorouk published a book of Hayward's short stories in Arabic as \"جني ذات الأسنان الخضراء وقصص قصيرة أُخرى\" Dar Al-Shorouk published another collection as: وحشيّ وغيرها من القصص الإسلامية القصيرة.\n\nAlso in 2018, Claritas Books published \"The Savage: and other Islamic Short Stories\". Regarding the genre of Islamic fiction, Hayward said in a June 2018 interview on his publisher’s website that the key \"is to see that even within the Islamic tradition there are safe creative spaces into which one can insert fiction. But one has to remember of course, never to attribute to any prophet or esteemed personage something they never said or did. That’s where my background as a historian of Islam really helps. I know the sources. I know what they say happened. I therefore know the boundaries of fictional storytelling.\n\n— Softcover edition (2000). .\n— Softcover edition (2019) .\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is a selection of Hayward's peer-reviewed articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44705838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44705838", "title": "Language-based security", "text": "Language-based security\n\nIn computer science, language-based security (LBS) is a set of techniques that may be used to strengthen the security of applications on a high level by using the properties of programming languages.\nLBS is considered to enforce computer security on an application-level, making it possible to prevent vulnerabilities which traditional operating system security is unable to handle.\n\nSoftware applications are typically specified and implemented in certain programming languages, and in order to protect against attacks, flaws and bugs an application’s source code might be vulnerable to, there is a need for application-level security; security evaluating the applications behavior with respect to the programming language. This area is generally known as language-based security.\n\nThe use of large software systems, such as SCADA, is taking place all around the world and computer systems constitute the core of many infrastructures. The society relies greatly on infrastructure such as water, energy, communication and transportation, which again all rely on fully functionally working computer systems. There are several well known examples of when critical systems fail due to bugs or errors in software, such as \"when shortage of computer memory caused LAX computers to crash and hundreds of flights to be delayed\" (April 30, 2014).\n\nTraditionally, the mechanisms used to control the correct behavior of software are implemented at the operating system level. The operating system handles several possible security violations such as memory access violations, stack overflow violations, access control violations, and many others. This is a crucial part of security in computer systems, however by securing the behavior of software on a more specific level, even stronger security can be achieved. Since a lot of properties and behavior of the software is lost in compilation, it is significantly more difficult to detect vulnerabilities in machine code. By evaluating the source code, before the compilation, the theory and implementation of the programming language can also be considered, and more vulnerabilities can be uncovered.\n\"So why do developers keep making the same mistakes? Instead of relying on programmers' memories, we should strive to produce tools that codify what is known about common security vulnerabilities and integrate it directly into the development process.\"\n\n— D. Evans and D. Larochelle, 2002\nBy using LBS, the security of software can be increased in several areas, depending on the techniques used. Common programming errors such as allowing buffer overflows and illegal information flows to occur, can be detected and disallowed in the software used by the consumer. It is also desirable to provide some proof to the consumer about the security properties of the software, making the consumer able to trust the software without having to receive the source code and self checking it for errors.\n\nA compiler, taking source code as input, performs several language specific operations on the code in order to translate it into machine readable code. Lexical analysis, preprocessing, parsing, semantic analysis, code generation, and code optimization are all commonly used operations in compilers. By analyzing the source code and using the theory and implementation of the language, the compiler will attempt to correctly translate the high-level code into low-level code, preserving the behavior of the program.\n\nDuring compilation of programs written in a type-safe language, such as Java, the source code must type-check successfully before compilation. If the type-check fails, the compilation will not be performed, and the source code needs to be modified. This means that, given a correct compiler, any code compiled from a successfully type-checked source program should be clear of invalid assignment errors. This is information which can be of value to the code consumer, as it provides some degree of guarantee that the program will not crash due to some specific error.\n\nA goal of LBS is to ensure the presence of certain properties in the source code corresponding to the safety policy of the software. Information gathered during the compilation can be used to create a certificate that can be provided to the consumer as a proof of safety in the given program. Such a proof must imply that the consumer can trust the compiler used by the supplier and that the certificate, the information about the source code, can be verified.\n\nThe figure illustrates how certification and verification of low-level code could be established by the use of a certifying compile. The software supplier gains the advantage of not having to reveal the source code, and the consumer is left with the task of verifying the certificate, which is an easy task compared to evaluation and compilation of the source code itself. Verifying the certificate only requires a limited trusted code base containing the compiler and the verifier.\n\nThe main applications of program analysis are program optimization (running time, space requirements, power consumption etc.) and program correctness (bugs, security vulnerabilities etc.). Program analysis can be applied to compilation (static analysis), run-time (dynamic analysis), or both. In language-based security, program analysis can provide several useful features, such as: type checking (static and dynamic), monitoring, taint checking and control-flow analysis.\n\nInformation flow analysis can be described as a set of tools used to analyze the information flow control in a program, in order to preserve confidentiality and integrity where regular access control mechanisms come short.\n\"By decoupling the right to access information from the right to disseminate it, the flow model goes beyond the access matrix model in its ability to specify secure information flow. A practical system needs both access and flow control to satisfy all security requirements.\"\n\n— D. Denning, 1976\nAccess control enforces checks on \"access\" to information, but is not concerned about what happens after that. An example: A system has two users, Alice and Bob. Alice has a file \"secret.txt\", which is only allowed to be read and edited by her, and she prefers to keep this information to herself. In the system, there also exists a file \"public.txt\", which is free to read and edit for all users in the system. Now suppose that Alice has accidentally downloaded a malicious program. This program can access the system as Alice, bypassing the access control check on \"secret.txt\". The malicious program then copies the content of \"secret.txt\" and places it in \"public.txt\", allowing Bob and all other users to read it. This constitutes a violation of the intended confidentiality policy of the system.\n\nNoninterference is a property of programs that does not leak or reveal information of variables with a \"higher\" security classification, depending on the input of variables with a \"lower\" security classification. A program which satisfies noninterference should produce the same \"output\" whenever the corresponding same \"input\" on the \"lower\" variables are used. This must hold for every possible value on the input. This implies that even if \"higher\" variables in the program has different values from one execution to another, this should not be visible on the \"lower\" variables.\n\nAn attacker could try to execute a program which does not satisfy noninterference repeatedly and systematically to try to map its behavior. Several iterations could lead to the disclosure of \"higher\" variables, and let the attacker learn sensitive information about for example the systems state.\n\nWhether a program satisfies noninterference or not can be evaluated during compilation assuming the presence of security type systems.\n\nA security type system is a kind of type system that can be used by software developers in order to check the security properties of their code. In a language with security types, the types of variables and expressions relate to the security policy of the application, and programmers may be able to specify the application security policy via type declarations. Types can be used to reason about various kinds of security policies, including authorization policies (as access control or capabilities) and information flow security. Security type systems can be formally related to the underlying security policy, and a security type system is sound if all programs that type-check satisfy the policy in a semantic sense. For example, a security type system for information flow might enforce noninterference, meaning that type checking reveals whether there is any violation of confidentiality or integrity in the program.\n\nVulnerabilities in low-level code are bugs or flaws that will lead the program into a state where further behavior of the program is undefined by the source programming language. The behavior of the low-level program will depend on compiler, runtime system or operating system details. This allows for an attacker to drive the program towards an undefined state, and exploit the behavior of the system.\n\nCommon exploits of insecure low-level code lets an attacker perform unauthorized reads or writes to memory addresses. The memory addresses can be either random or chosen by the attacker.\n\nAn approach to achieve secure low-level code is to use safe high-level languages. A safe language is considered to be completely defined by its programmers' manual. Any bug that could lead to implementation-dependent behavior in a safe language will either be detected at compile time or lead to a well-defined error behavior at run-runtime. In Java, if accessing an array out of bounds, an exception will be thrown. Examples of other safe languages are C#, Haskell and Scala.\n\nDuring compilation of an unsafe language run-time checks is added to the low-level code to detect source-level undefined behavior. An example is the use of canaries, which can terminate a program when discovering bounds violations.\nA downside of using run-time checks such as in bounds-checking is that they impose considerable performance overhead.\n\nMemory protection, such as using non-executable stack and/or heap, can also be seen as additional run-time checks. This is used by many modern operating systems.\n\nThe general idea is to identify sensitive code from application data by analyzing the source code. Once this is done the different data is separated and placed in different modules. When assuming that each module has total control over the sensitive information it contains, it is possible to specify when and how should leave the module. \nAn example is a cryptographic module that can prevent keys from ever leaving the module unencrypted.\n\nCertifying compilation is the idea of producing a certificate during compilation of source code, using the information from the high-level programming language semantics. This certificate should be enclosed with the compiled code in order to provide a form of proof to the consumer that the source code was compiled according to a certain set of rules. The certificate can be produced in different ways, e.g. through Proof-carrying code (PCC) or Typed assembly language (TAL).\n\nThe main aspects of PCC can be summarized in the following steps:\n\nAn example of a certifying compiler is the Touchstone compiler, that provides a PCC formal proof of type- and memory safety for programs implemented in Java.\n\nTAL is applicable to programming languages that make use of a type system. After compilation, the object code will carry a type annotation that can be checked by an ordinary type checker. The annotation produced here is in many ways similar to the annotations provided by PCC, with some limitations. However, TAL can handle any security policy that may be expressed by the restrictions of the type system, which can include memory safety and control flow, among others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29388631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29388631", "title": "Manufactured controversy", "text": "Manufactured controversy\n\nA manufactured controversy (often shortened to portmanteau manufactroversy) is a contrived disagreement, typically motivated by profit or ideology, designed to create public confusion concerning an issue about which there is no substantial academic dispute. This concept has also been referred to as manufactured uncertainty.\n\nManufacturing controversy has been a tactic used by ideological and corporate groups in order to \"neutralize the influence of academic scientists\" in public policy debates. Cherry picking of favorable data and sympathetic experts, aggrandizement of uncertainties within theoretical models, and false balance in media reporting contribute to the generation of manufactured controversies. Those manufacturing uncertainty may label academic research as \"junk science\" and use a variety of tactics designed to stall and increase the expense of the distribution of sound scientific information. Delay tactics are also used to slow the implementation of regulations and public warnings in response to previously undiscovered health risks (e.g., the increased risk of Reye's syndrome in children who take aspirin). Chief among these stalling tactics is generating scientific uncertainty, \"no matter how powerful or conclusive the evidence\", in order to prevent regulation.\n\nAnother tactic used to manufacture controversy is to cast the scientific community as intolerant of dissent and conspiratorially aligned with industries or sociopolitical movements that quash challenges to conventional wisdom. This form of manufactured controversy has been utilized by environmentalist advocacy groups, religious challengers of the theory of evolution, and opponents of global warming legislation.\n\nIn the United States, the generation of manufactured uncertainty about scientific data has affected political and legal proceedings in many different areas. The Data Quality Act and the Supreme Court's \"Daubert\" standard have been cited as tools used by those manufacturing controversy to obfuscate scientific consensus.\nConcerns have been raised regarding the conflicts of interest inherent in many types of industry regulation. For example, many industries, such as the pharmaceutical industry, are a major source of funding for the research necessary to achieve government regulatory approval for their product. In developing regulations, agencies such as the Food and Drug Administration and the Environmental Protection Agency rely heavily on unpublished studies from industry sources that have not been peer reviewed. This can allow a given industry control over the extent of available research, and the pace at which it is reviewable, when challenging scientific research that may threaten their business interests.\n\nExamples of controversies that have been labeled manufactured controversies:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56080156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56080156", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education (Soviet Union)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education (Soviet Union)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education (Minvuz; ) was a government ministry in the Soviet Union.\n\nThe predecessor of the Ministry of Higher Education USSR, the Committee for Higher School Affairs under the Council of People's Commissars USSR, was established by decree of the Central Executive Committee and the Council of People's Commissars, for the purpose of uniting and directing the administration of higher education in the USSR. The committee was also entrusted with the academic and methodological supervision of secondary special educational institutions.\n\nThe Presidium Supreme Soviet USSR, issued a ukase on 10 April 1946, \"On the Reorganization of the Committee for Higher School Affairs Into the Union-Republic Ministry of Higher Education USSR\". Despite the designation of union-republic, however, there are no equivalent Ministries of Higher Education in the RSFSR and the 15 union republics; in the various republics, higher educational affairs are handled by a main administration of higher educational institutions under the Ministry of Education of the republic.\n\nIn 1988 it was reorganized into the State Committee for Higher and Specialized Secondary Education.\n\n\"Source\":\n"}
{"id": "6890164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6890164", "title": "NHS.net", "text": "NHS.net\n\nNHS.net is a Microsoft Outlook Web App email, diary and directory system for National Health Service (NHS) employees in England and Scotland. The system is not for patients of the NHS. Retired NHS staff do not have access.\n\nFaxes used to be able to be sent, but this was phased out at the end of March 2015\n\nNHS.net e-mail initially offered 64Mb of storage. In 2006 it was improved and storage space was unlimited. Storage space has since been reduced to 400MB or 1GB depending on account service level. In 2013 the storage was doubled for all users in response to feedback from them.\n\nThe NHSmail system uses a customised version of Microsoft Exchange (2013).\n\nThe web interface uses Outlook Web Access. The login URL for the webmail service is https://www.nhs.net.\n\nNHSmail may be accessed from the internet by Microsoft Outlook on Windows or Microsoft Entourage on Mac OS X. Auto-configuration is available if the user's e-mail address is provided.\n\nA zip file containing Microsoft Outlook 2002 manual setup details can be downloaded from Tools->Outlook setup\n\nMobile devices which support Exchange email and calendar can use NHSmail email and calendar functions, either with native capability or by installing third party software. Whilst no mobile phones are officially supported by NHSmail the following devices are able to connect:\n\n\nStandards-compliant IMAP was available only from within the NHS internal network until around August 2018 when it was reintroduced into the Internet. \n\nYour email account my require IMAP / SMTP to be enabled for you to use IMAP / SMTP protocols, your local email support person can enable this for you. \n\nThe server is imap.nhs.net. The internal SMTP server is send.nhs.net.\n\nStandards-compliant connectivity over the internet was previously provided via the IMAP server imapmail1.nhs.net and the SMTP server smtp1.nhs.net. Standards-compliant internet access was removed in September 2009, breaking linux accessibility from the internet. A Windows-only tunnelling application can restore internet access to IMAP. This application is Whale Communications (a Microsoft subsidiary) Intelligent Application Gateway and is publicly accessible at https://client.nhs.net. The application is not available for 64-bit platforms.\n\nNHSmail has been approved for securely exchanging patient information by non-IT groups such as the British Medical Association (BMA), the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) and the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP).\n\nEmails that may contain personally identifiable information, sensitive information, or medical information have been assessed by the UK Government's Communications-Electronics Security Group (CESG) as requiring protection to Business Impact Level 4 (B-IL 4). This was assessed in reference to CESGs guidance on Technical Risk Assessment for the UK Cabinet Office published as HMG IA Standard No 1 (IA1 - Technical Risk Assessment), and defined by the potential distress or embarrassment a breach of the system could cause NHS patients, as given in the Impact Level table on Page 54 of the Standard.\n\nThe current NHSmail services have (with a waiver allowing access from uncontrolled end points over the internet) been assessed as providing a level of security consistent with B-IL 3. The B-IL 3 rating will be maintained with the introduction of NHSmail2, however this rating is not consistent with CESG's requirements for protecting personal information of this sensitivity.\n\nThe service can be used to email a range of other Government email services such as the Home Office, secure local government services, police, MoD etc. Access to e-mail accounts can be provided voluntarily through a delegate option in Microsoft Outlook. Access without the mailbox owner's permission can be granted after local sign off from an HR director or CEO and the Programme Head for NHSmail.\n\nMail sent through NHS.net may have a 15-line tag essay appended to the end of the message.\n\nIn 2013 the owning organisation (then NHS Connecting for Health) announced that they wished to replace the existing NHSmail service as the contract was due to come to an end. In January 2014 the Health and Social Care Information Centre (HSCIC) confirmed that a business case for replacing the service had been approved by The Department of Health and Treasury. The current service will run until the new one is procured, with transition due to take place during 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "28685598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28685598", "title": "NHS Alliance", "text": "NHS Alliance\n\nNew NHS Alliance is an independent leadership body representing progressive providers of care outside hospital. Neither professional body nor trade union, it is a fresh, open-minded and patient-centred organisation, bringing together a community of more than 10,000 passionate individuals and organisations across primary care who believe innovation, connections and integration are key to the sustainability of a health service that remains free to all at the point of need.\n\nThe New NHS Alliance is focussing on health creation, championing the '3Cs' of control, contact, and communication.\n\nIt represents all providers of primary care including general practice; community eye, hearing and foot care; community pharmacy; dentistry and physiotherapy; and out-of-hours and emergency services. NHS Alliance also represents determinants of health outcomes like housing organisations or those with an interest in maintaining good health such as local authorities and health and wellbeing boards.\n\nAn early exponent of clinical commissioning groups, NHS Alliance now works closely with providers and communities to identify and share the solutions needed to sustain the NHS. It also focuses on providing practical support to help drive the innovation it endorses.\n\nNHS Alliance works with a number of strategic partners with whom it co-produces and delivers important think and action papers, reports, programmes and summits.\n\nTwo recent publications, Breaking Boundaries and Beyond: A Manifesto for Primary Care (March 2013) and Think Big, Act Now: Creating a Community of Care (October 2014) were early articulations of NHS England's Five Year Forward View, describing the requirement to dissolve silos and tensions within the system and work towards more lateral organisations, what it calls 'Communities of Care', equivalent to NHS England's Multispecialty Community Providers.\n\nOther networks include people powered improvement, general practice, new providers, urgent care and housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "435710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435710", "title": "New Forum", "text": "New Forum\n\nNew Forum () was a political movement in East Germany formed in the months leading up to the collapse of the East German state. It was founded in September 1989 and was the first independent (non-National Front) political movement to be recognised by the Socialist Unity Party of Germany-led state on 8 November 1989. In February 1990 it formed Alliance 90 (Bündnis 90) with Democracy Now (Demokratie Jetzt) (DJ) and the Initiative for Peace and Human Rights (Initiative für Frieden und Menschenrechte) (IFM).\n\nThe New Forum was the first countrywide political movement in the GDR outside the Protestant church. Members of the Peace Movement, including Bärbel Bohley, Ingrid Köppe, Rolf Henrich, Jens Reich and Reinhard Meinel signed the \"Aufbruch 89\" [Initiative 89] founding proclamation on 9/10 September 1989 in Grünheide, which had been the last home of the dissident Robert Havemann. New Forum demanded a dialogue about democratic reforms, with the aim, together with the largest possible participation from the population, of 'reshaping' society.\n\n19 September 1989 – Members apply for registration\n\n21 September 1989 – Registration denied by the Interior Ministry: the New Forum is 'anti-state' and 'illegal'. Demonstrations follow. The increased pressure forces the authorities to allow New Forum to exist, and finally recognise it as a political organisation. \n\nBy the end of 1989, 200,000 people have signed the proclamation, and there are approx. 10,000 full members. New Forum demands free and democratic elections. Local New Forum groups are active mostly in the cities. Discussions about the development of grass-roots democracy led by the end of 1989 to a dispute over whether New Forum should become a party or remain a movement. \n\n27–28 January 1990 – About one quarter of the members (mostly form the southern regions of the GDR) split from New Forum and form the German Forum Party (DFP). New Forum retains its grass-roots democratic structure.\n\nFebruary 1990 – New Forum joins with other opposition groups (Initiative Frieden und Menschenrechte (The Initiative for Peace and Human Rights] and Demokratie Jetzt [Democracy Now]) to form the political party Bündnis 90.\n\nMay 1993 – Bündnis 90 and the West German Green party join to form Bündnis 90/Die Grünen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11902568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11902568", "title": "Nottingham Psychogeographical Unit", "text": "Nottingham Psychogeographical Unit\n\nThe Nottingham Psychogeographical Unit was founded in Nottingham, England, in 1994, by Onesto Lusso, Minky Harry, and Dade Fasic. It produced videos, writings and mental maps based on psychogeography. It moved to London in 1998.\n\nIn 2002, the unit was quoted in a \"Guardian\" article that \"there are already too many buildings\" and that all new developments should stop immediately. Recent new buildings should be torn down according to popular demand from local residents, they were quoted as saying, and \"citizens should be given total administrative power over development.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "55569194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55569194", "title": "Orange Shirt Day", "text": "Orange Shirt Day\n\nOrange Shirt Day is an event that started in 2013. It was designed to educate people and promote awareness about the Indian residential school system and the impact this system had on Indigenous communities for more than a century in Canada. It is held annually on September 30 in Canadian communities with students and staff being encouraged to wear an orange shirt to school that day.\n\nOrange Shirt Day began in 2013 as a result of residential school survivor Phyllis Jack Webstad discussing her experience when she arrived at a residential school. Webstad shared her story at a legacy of the St. Joseph Mission (SJM) residential school commemoration event held in Williams Lake, British Columbia, Canada, in the spring of 2013. On her first day at residential school Phyllis had her new orange shirt taken away from her. Phyllis' experience is used today to teach students about residential schools and their assimilation practices.\n\nThe date of September 30 was chosen for the annual event because it is the time of year in which Indigenous children were historically taken from their homes to residential schools. The event is similar to \"Pink Shirt Day\" which is an annual anti-bullying day which many school groups participate in.\n\nIn addition to simply wearing an orange shirt on September 30, this annual event encourages Canadians to learn about the history of residential schools. Many communities have held memorial walks, film screenings, and public lectures to raise awareness about Indigenous history. Additionally, school boards across Canada have begun to use this event to teach children about residential schools.\n\nIn 2017 Jane Philpott, Canada's Minister of Indigenous Services, and Carolyn Bennett, Indigenous Relations and Northern Affairs Minister, encouraged people across Canada to participate in this commemorative and educational event.\n\nIn 2018, the department of Canadian Heritage and Multiculturalism announced it was considering making a statutory holiday to honour the legacy of residential schools, and September 30 was one of the dates being considered.\n\nOne criticism of the annual event has been the high cost of the official shirts created by the Orange Shirt Day organization. Additionally, in 2017, because of the popularity of the event, there were challenges meeting the demand for shirts. As a work-around, many local communities have created their own designs of T-shirts to wear on the day of the event. Designer Carey Newman created a limited edition T-shirt for Orange Shirt Day in 2017 that sold-out in less than 48 hours. Newman's father attended residential school and his design was in honour of that legacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "399474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399474", "title": "Path–goal theory", "text": "Path–goal theory\n\nThe path–goal theory, also known as the path–goal theory of leader effectiveness or the path–goal model, is a leadership theory developed by Robert House, an Ohio State University graduate, in 1971 and revised in 1996. The theory states that a leader's behavior is contingent to the satisfaction, motivation and performance of his or her subordinates. The revised version also argues that the leader engages in behaviors that complement subordinate's abilities and compensate for deficiencies. According to Robert House and John Antonakis, the task-oriented elements of the path–goal model can be classified as a form of instrumental leadership.\n\nThe first theory was inspired by the work of Martin G. Evans (1970), in which the leadership behaviors and the follower perceptions of the degree to which following a particular behavior (path) will lead to a particular outcome (goal). The path–goal theory was also influenced by the expectancy theory of motivation developed by Victor Vroom in 1964. Vroom built his work on the work of Georgopoulos et al. (1957): A path-goal approach to productivity. Journal of Applied Psychology. Volume 41, No. 6, pages 345–353.\n\nAccording to the first of all theory, the manager's job is viewed as guiding workers to choose the best paths to reach their goals, as well as the organizational goals. The theory argues that leaders will have to engage in different types of leadership behavior depending on the nature and the demands of a particular situation. It is the leader's job to assist followers in attaining goals and to provide the direction and support needed to ensure that their goals are compatible with the organization's goals.\n\nA leader's behavior is acceptable to subordinates when viewed as a source of satisfaction, and motivational when need satisfaction is contingent on performance, and the leader facilitates, coaches, and rewards effective performance. The original path-goal theory identifies \"achievement-oriented\", \"directive\", \"participative\", and \"supportive\" leader behaviors:\n\n\nPath–goal theory assumes that leaders are flexible and that they can change their style, as situations require. The theory proposes two contingency variables, such as environment and follower characteristics, that moderate the leader behavior-outcome relationship. Environment is outside the control of the follower-task structure, authority system, and work group. \"Environmental factors\" determine the type of leader behavior required if the follower outcomes are to be maximized. \"Follower characteristics\" are the locus of control, experience, and perceived ability. Personal characteristics of subordinates determine how the environment and leader are interpreted. Effective leaders clarify the path to help their followers achieve goals and make the journey easier by reducing roadblocks and pitfalls. Research demonstrates that employee performance and satisfaction are positively influenced when the leader compensates for the shortcomings in either the employee or the work setting. According to Northouse, the theory is useful because it reminds leaders that their central purpose as a leader is to help subordinates define and reach their goals in an efficient manner.\n\nHouse (1971) refers to Rizzo (1970), stating that a leader initiating structure increases the path instrumentality for subordinates by decreasing role ambiguity. Also, he says that a leader who is initiating structure and consideration will have different effects depending on whether the task is satisfying or unsatisfying to the subordinate and whether the task-role demands are clear or ambiguous. This means that the more satisfying the task, the less positive the relationship is between consideration and subordinate satisfaction and performance – meaning people tend to act and enjoy it without considering whether they should not. Also, it means that when a coach is clear in setting goals and expectations, the goals are more likely to be achieved than if the goals and expectations are unclear. This is good for coaches, it means that when they can present a goal that is most satisfying to athletes, it is more likely for the athletes to have affective desire for achieving the goal.\n\nFor a college coach, practicing good ethics in this regard means creating goals that are within reach for a team, and working together with members of a team when creating these goals. Larson and LaFasto in their 1989 book \"TeamWork\" place a clear & elevating goal at the forefront of the necessary components for a successful team. \"The image of a desired state of affairs that inspires action\" is how Garfield defines a clear goal, according to the authors (p. 27). They say that when the goal is \"unfocused and \"politicized\", it becomes a reason for ineffective team functioning. \"A sense of mission\" is a clear characteristic of peak performers', says Garfield, according to the authors. Larson and LaFasto make no mistake in emphasizing the importance of clarity. \"Elevating\" to the authors means \"personally challenging\" (p. 31). A player asks the personal question of how worthwhile the goal itself is, and what type of difference it makes. The elevating factor of goal setting brings about a sense of urgency, causes a team to lose track of time (relates to the idea of \"flow\" in the field of positive psychology), and causes the rate of communication to increase, for example, players calling one another in the evening, outside the sport context, to talk about today's practice or tomorrow's game.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "153390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=153390", "title": "Phillips curve", "text": "Phillips curve\n\nThe Phillips curve is a single-equation econometric model, named after William\nPhillips, describing a historical inverse relationship between rates of unemployment and corresponding rates of rises in wages that result within an economy. Stated simply, decreased unemployment, (i.e., increased levels of employment) in an economy will correlate with higher rates of wage rises. Phillips did not himself state there was any relationship between employment and inflation, this notion was a trivial deduction from his statistical findings. Samuelson and Solow made the connection explicit and subsequently Milton Friedman from 1967 put the theoretical structure in place. In so doing, Friedman was to successfully predict the imminent collapse of Phillip's a-theoretic correlation.\n\nWhile there is a short run tradeoff between unemployment and inflation, it has not been observed in the long run. In 1968, Milton Friedman asserted that the Phillips curve was only applicable in the short-run and that in the long-run, inflationary policies would not decrease unemployment. Friedman then correctly predicted that in the 1973–75 recession, both inflation and unemployment would increase. The long-run Phillips curve is now seen as a vertical line at the natural rate of unemployment, where the rate of inflation has no effect on unemployment. In recent years the slope of the Phillips curve appears to have declined and there has been significant questioning of the usefulness of the Phillips curve in predicting inflation. Nonetheless, the Phillips curve remains the primary framework for understanding and forecasting inflation used in central banks.\n\nWilliam Phillips, a New Zealand born economist, wrote a paper in 1958 titled \"The Relation between Unemployment and the Rate of Change of Money Wage Rates in the United Kingdom, 1861-1957\", which was published in the quarterly journal \"Economica\". In the paper Phillips describes how he observed an inverse relationship between money wage changes and unemployment in the British economy over the period examined. Similar patterns were found in other countries and in 1960 Paul Samuelson and Robert Solow took Phillips' work and made explicit the link between inflation and unemployment: when inflation was high, unemployment was low, and vice versa.\n\nIn the 1920s, an American economist Irving Fisher noted this kind of Phillips curve relationship. However, Phillips' original curve described the behavior of money wages.\n\nIn the years following Phillips' 1958 paper, many economists in the advanced industrial countries believed that his results showed that there was a permanently stable relationship between inflation and unemployment. One implication of this for government policy was that governments could control unemployment and inflation with a Keynesian policy. They could tolerate a reasonably high rate of inflation as this would lead to lower unemployment – there would be a trade-off between inflation and unemployment. For example, monetary policy and/or fiscal policy could be used to stimulate the economy, raising gross domestic product and lowering the unemployment rate. Moving along the Phillips curve, this would lead to a higher inflation rate, the cost of enjoying lower unemployment rates. Economist James Forder argues that this view is historically false and that neither economists nor governments took that view and that the 'Phillips curve myth' was an invention of the 1970s.\n\nSince 1974, seven Nobel Prizes have been given to economists for, among other things, work critical of some variations of the Phillips curve. Some of this criticism is based on the United States' experience during the 1970s, which had periods of high unemployment and high inflation at the same time. The authors receiving those prizes include Thomas Sargent, Christopher Sims, Edmund Phelps, Edward Prescott, Robert A. Mundell, Robert E. Lucas, Milton Friedman, and F.A. Hayek.\n\nIn the 1970s, many countries experienced high levels of both inflation and unemployment also known as stagflation. Theories based on the Phillips curve suggested that this could not happen, and the curve came under a concerted attack from a group of economists headed by Milton Friedman. Friedman argued that the Phillips curve relationship was only a short-run phenomenon. In this he followed eight years after Samuelson and Solow [1960] who wrote \"All of our discussion has been phrased in short-run terms, dealing with what might happen in the next few years. It would be wrong, though, to think that our Figure 2 menu that related obtainable price and unemployment behavior will maintain its same shape in the longer run. What we do in a policy way during the next few years might cause it to shift in a definite way.\" As Samuelson and Solow had argued 8 years earlier, he argued that in the long run, workers and employers will take inflation into account, resulting in employment contracts that increase pay at rates near anticipated inflation. Unemployment would then begin to rise back to its previous level, but now with higher inflation rates. This result implies that over the longer-run there is no trade-off between inflation and unemployment. This implication is significant for practical reasons because it implies that central banks should not set unemployment targets below the natural rate.\n\nMore recent research suggests that there is a moderate trade-off between low-levels of inflation and unemployment. Work by George Akerlof, William Dickens, and George Perry, implies that if inflation is reduced from two to zero percent, unemployment will be permanently increased by 1.5 percent. This is because workers generally have a higher tolerance for real wage cuts than nominal ones. For example, a worker will more likely accept a wage increase of two percent when inflation is three percent, than a wage cut of one percent when the inflation rate is zero.\n\nMost economists no longer use the Phillips curve in its original form because it was shown to be too simplistic. This can be seen in a cursory analysis of US inflation and unemployment data from 1953–92. There is no single curve that will fit the data, but there are three rough aggregations—1955–71, 1974–84, and 1985–92—each of which shows a general, downwards slope, but at three very different levels with the shifts occurring abruptly. The data for 1953–54 and 1972–73 do not group easily, and a more formal analysis posits up to five groups/curves over the period.\n\nBut still today, modified forms of the Phillips curve that take inflationary expectations into account remain influential. The theory goes under several names, with some variation in its details, but all modern versions distinguish between short-run and long-run effects on unemployment. Modern Phillips curve models include both a short-run Phillips Curve and a long-run Phillips Curve. This is because in the short run, there is generally an inverse relationship between inflation and the unemployment rate; as illustrated in the downward sloping short-run Phillips curve. In the long run, that relationship breaks down and the economy eventually returns to the natural rate of unemployment regardless of the inflation rate.\n\nThe \"short-run Phillips curve\" is also called the \"expectations-augmented Phillips curve\", since it shifts up when inflationary expectations rise, Edmund Phelps and Milton Friedman argued. In the long run, this implies that monetary policy cannot affect unemployment, which adjusts back to its \"natural rate\", also called the \"NAIRU\" or \"long-run Phillips curve\". However, this long-run \"neutrality\" of monetary policy does allow for short run fluctuations and the ability of the monetary authority to temporarily decrease unemployment by increasing permanent inflation, and vice versa. The popular textbook of Blanchard gives a textbook presentation of the expectations-augmented Phillips curve.\n\nAn equation like the expectations-augmented Phillips curve also appears in many recent New Keynesian dynamic stochastic general equilibrium models. In these macroeconomic models with sticky prices, there is a positive relation between the rate of inflation and the level of demand, and therefore a negative relation between the rate of inflation and the rate of unemployment. This relationship is often called the \"New Keynesian Phillips curve\". Like the expectations-augmented Phillips curve, the New Keynesian Phillips curve implies that increased inflation can lower unemployment temporarily, but cannot lower it permanently. Two influential papers that incorporate a New Keynesian Phillips curve are Clarida, Galí, and Gertler (1999), and Blanchard and Galí (2007).\n\nThere are at least two different mathematical derivations of the Phillips curve. First, there is the traditional or Keynesian version. Then, there is the new Classical version associated with Robert E. Lucas, Jr.\n\nThe original Phillips curve literature was not based on the unaided application of economic theory. Instead, it was based on empirical generalizations. After that, economists tried to develop theories that fit the data.\n\nThe traditional Phillips curve story starts with a wage Phillips Curve, of the sort described by Phillips himself. This describes the rate of growth of money wages (gW). Here and below, the operator g is the equivalent of \"the percentage rate of growth of\" the variable that follows.\nThe \"money wage rate\" (W) is shorthand for total money wage costs per production employee, including benefits and payroll taxes. The focus is on only production workers' money wages, because (as discussed below) these costs are crucial to pricing decisions by the firms.\n\nThis equation tells us that the growth of money wages rises with the trend rate of growth of money wages (indicated by the superscript \"T\") and falls with the unemployment rate (U). The function f() is assumed to be monotonically increasing with U so that the dampening of money-wage increases by unemployment is shown by the negative sign in the equation above.\n\nThere are several possible stories behind this equation. A major one is that money wages are set by \"bilateral negotiations\" under partial bilateral monopoly: as the unemployment rate rises, \"all else constant\" worker bargaining power falls, so that workers are less able to increase their wages in the face of employer resistance.\n\nDuring the 1970s, this story had to be modified, because (as the late Abba Lerner had suggested in the 1940s) workers try to keep up with inflation. Since the 1970s, the equation has been changed to introduce the role of inflationary expectations (or the expected inflation rate, gP). This produces the expectations-augmented wage Phillips curve:\n\nThe introduction of inflationary expectations into the equation implies that actual inflation can \"feed back\" into inflationary expectations and thus cause further inflation. The late economist James Tobin dubbed the last term \"inflationary inertia,\" because in the current period, inflation exists which represents an inflationary impulse left over from the past.\n\nIt also involved much more than expectations, including the price-wage spiral. In this spiral, employers try to protect profits by raising their prices and employees try to keep up with inflation to protect their real wages. This process can feed on itself, becoming a self-fulfilling prophecy.\n\nThe parameter λ (which is presumed constant during any time period) represents the degree to which employees can gain money wage increases to keep up with expected inflation, preventing a fall in expected real wages. It is usually assumed that this parameter equals unity in the long run.\n\nIn addition, the function f() was modified to introduce the idea of the non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment (NAIRU) or what's sometimes called the \"natural\" rate of unemployment or the\ninflation-threshold unemployment rate:\n\nHere, U* is the NAIRU. As discussed below, if U < U*, inflation tends to accelerate. Similarly, if U > U*, inflation tends to slow. It is assumed that f(0) = 0, so that when U = U*, the f term drops out of the equation.\n\nIn equation [1], the roles of gW and gP seem to be redundant, playing much the same role. However, assuming that λ is equal to unity, it can be seen that they are not. If the trend rate of growth of money wages equals zero, then the case where U equals U* implies that gW equals expected inflation. That is, expected real wages are constant.\n\nIn any reasonable economy, however, having constant expected real wages could only be consistent with actual real wages that are constant over the long haul. This does not fit with economic experience in the U.S. or any other major industrial country. Even though real wages have not risen much in recent years, there have been important increases over the decades.\n\nAn alternative is to assume that the trend rate of growth of money wages equals the trend rate of growth of average labor productivity (Z). That is:\n\nUnder assumption [2], when U equals U* and λ equals unity, expected real wages would increase with labor productivity. This would be consistent with an economy in which actual real wages increase with labor productivity. Deviations of real-wage trends from those of labor productivity might be explained by reference to other variables in the model.\n\nNext, there is price behavior. The standard assumption is that markets are \"imperfectly competitive\", where most businesses have some power to set prices. So the model assumes that the average business sets a unit price (P) as a mark-up (M) over the unit labor cost in production measured at a standard rate of capacity utilization (say, at 90 percent use of plant and equipment) and then adds in the unit materials cost.\n\nThe standardization involves later ignoring deviations from the trend in labor productivity. For example, assume that the growth of labor productivity is the same as that in the trend and that current productivity equals its trend value:\n\nThe markup reflects both the firm's degree of market power and the extent to which overhead costs have to be paid. Put another way, all else equal, M rises with the firm's power to set prices or with a rise of overhead costs relative to total costs.\n\nSo pricing follows this equation:\n\nUMC is unit raw materials cost (total raw materials costs divided by total output). So the equation can be restated as:\n\nThis equation can again be stated as:\n\nNow, assume that both the average price/cost mark-up (M) and UMC are constant. On the other hand, labor productivity grows, as before. Thus, an equation determining the price inflation rate (gP) is:\n\nThen, combined with the wage Phillips curve [equation 1] and the assumption made above about the trend behavior of money wages [equation 2], this price-inflation equation gives us a simple expectations-augmented price Phillips curve:\n\nSome assume that we can simply add in gUMC, the rate of growth of UMC, in order to represent the role of supply shocks (of the sort that plagued the U.S. during the 1970s). This produces a standard short-term Phillips curve:\n\nEconomist Robert J. Gordon has called this the \"Triangle Model\" because it explains short-run inflationary behavior by three factors: demand inflation (due to low unemployment), supply-shock inflation (gUMC), and inflationary expectations or inertial inflation.\n\nIn the \"long run\", it is assumed, inflationary expectations catch up with and equal actual inflation so that gP = gP. This represents the long-term equilibrium of expectations adjustment. Part of this adjustment may involve the adaptation of expectations to the experience with actual inflation. Another might involve guesses made by people in the economy based on other evidence. (The latter idea gave us the notion of so-called rational expectations.)\n\nExpectational equilibrium gives us the long-term Phillips curve. First, with λ less than unity:\n\nThis is nothing but a steeper version of the short-run Phillips curve above. Inflation rises as unemployment falls, while this connection is stronger. That is, a low unemployment rate (less than U*) will be associated with a higher inflation rate in the long run than in the short run. This occurs because the actual higher-inflation situation seen in the short run feeds back to raise inflationary expectations, which in turn raises the inflation rate further. Similarly, at high unemployment rates (greater than U*) lead to low inflation\nrates. These in turn encourage lower inflationary expectations, so that inflation itself drops again.\n\nThis logic goes further if λ is equal to unity, i.e., if workers are able to protect their wages \"completely\" from expected inflation, even in the short run. Now, the Triangle Model equation becomes:\n\nIf we further assume (as seems reasonable) that there are no long-term supply shocks, this can be simplified to become:\n\nAll of the assumptions imply that in the long run, there is only one possible unemployment rate, U* at any one time. This uniqueness explains why some call this unemployment rate \"natural.\"\n\nTo truly understand and criticize the uniqueness of U*, a more sophisticated and realistic model is needed. For example, we might introduce the idea that workers in different sectors push for money wage increases that are similar to those in other sectors. Or we might make the model even more realistic. One important place to look is at the determination of the mark-up, M.\n\nThe Phillips curve equation can be derived from the (short-run) Lucas aggregate supply function. The Lucas approach is very different from that the traditional view. Instead of starting with empirical data, he started with a classical economic model following very simple economic principles.\n\nStart with the aggregate supply function:\n\nwhere Y is log value of the actual output, Y is log value of the \"natural\" level of output, a is a positive constant, P is log value of the actual price level, and P is log value of the expected price level. Lucas assumes that Y has a unique value.\n\nNote that this equation indicates that when expectations of future inflation (or, more correctly, the future price level) are \"totally accurate\", the last term drops out, so that actual output equals the so-called \"natural\" level of real GDP. This means that in the Lucas aggregate supply curve, the \"only\" reason why actual real GDP should deviate from potential—and the actual unemployment rate should deviate from the \"natural\" rate—is because of \"incorrect expectations\" of what is going to happen with prices in the future. (The idea has been expressed first by Keynes, \"General Theory\", Chapter 20 section III paragraph 4).\n\nThis differs from other views of the Phillips curve, in which the failure to attain the \"natural\" level of output can be due to the imperfection or incompleteness of markets, the stickiness of prices, and the like. In the non-Lucas view, incorrect expectations can contribute to aggregate demand failure, but they are not the only cause. To the \"new Classical\" followers of Lucas, markets are presumed to be perfect and always attain equilibrium (given inflationary expectations).\n\nWe re-arrange the equation into:\n\nNext we add unexpected exogenous shocks to the world supply v:\n\nSubtracting last year's price levels P will give us inflation rates, because\n\nand\n\nwhere π and π are the inflation and expected inflation respectively.\n\nThere is also a negative relationship between output and unemployment (as expressed by Okun's law). Therefore, using\nwhere b is a positive constant, U is unemployment, and U is the natural rate of unemployment or NAIRU, we arrive at the final form of the short-run Phillips curve:\n\nThis equation, plotting inflation rate π against unemployment U gives the downward-sloping curve in the diagram that characterises the Phillips curve.\n\nThe New Keynesian Phillips curve was originally derived by Roberts in 1995, and since been used in most state-of-the-art New Keynesian DSGE models like the one of Clarida, Galí, and Gertler (2000).\n\nwhere formula_11. The current expectations of next period's inflation are incorporated as formula_12\n\nIn the 1970s, new theories, such as rational expectations and the NAIRU (non-accelerating inflation rate of unemployment) arose to explain how stagflation could occur. The latter theory, also known as the \"natural rate of unemployment\", distinguished between the \"short-term\" Phillips curve and the \"long-term\" one. The short-term Phillips Curve looked like a normal Phillips Curve, but shifted in the long run as expectations changed. In the long run, only a single rate of unemployment (the NAIRU or \"natural\" rate) was consistent with a stable inflation rate. The long-run Phillips Curve was thus vertical, so there was no trade-off between inflation and unemployment. Edmund Phelps won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2006 in part for this work. However, the expectations argument was in fact very widely understood (albeit not formally) before Phelps' work on it.\n\nIn the diagram, the long-run Phillips curve is the vertical red line. The NAIRU theory says that when unemployment is at the rate defined by this line, inflation will be stable. However, in the short-run policymakers will face an inflation-unemployment rate tradeoff marked by the \"Initial Short-Run Phillips Curve\" in the graph. Policymakers can therefore reduce the unemployment rate temporarily, moving from point A to point B through expansionary policy. However, according to the NAIRU, exploiting this short-run tradeoff will raise inflation expectations, shifting the short-run curve rightward to the \"new short-run Phillips curve\" and moving the point of equilibrium from B to C. Thus the reduction in unemployment below the \"Natural Rate\" will be temporary, and lead only to higher inflation in the long run.\n\nSince the short-run curve shifts outward due to the attempt to reduce unemployment, the expansionary policy ultimately worsens the exploitable tradeoff between unemployment and inflation. That is, it results in more inflation at each short-run unemployment rate. The name \"NAIRU\" arises because with actual unemployment below it, inflation accelerates, while with unemployment above it, inflation decelerates. With the actual rate equal to it, inflation is stable, neither accelerating nor decelerating. One practical use of this model was to provide an explanation for stagflation, which confounded the traditional Phillips curve.\n\nThe rational expectations theory said that expectations of inflation were equal to what actually happened, with some minor and temporary errors. This in turn suggested that the short-run period was so short that it was non-existent: any effort to reduce unemployment below the NAIRU, for example, would \"immediately\" cause inflationary expectations to rise and thus imply that the policy would fail. Unemployment would never deviate from the NAIRU except due to random and transitory mistakes in developing expectations about future inflation rates. In this perspective, any deviation of the actual unemployment rate from the NAIRU was an illusion.\n\nHowever, in the 1990s in the U.S., it became increasingly clear that the NAIRU did not have a unique equilibrium and could change in unpredictable ways. In the late 1990s, the actual unemployment rate fell below 4% of the labor force, much lower than almost all estimates of the NAIRU. But inflation stayed very moderate rather than accelerating. So, just as the Phillips curve had become a subject of debate, so did the NAIRU.\n\nFurthermore, the concept of rational expectations had become subject to much doubt when it became clear that the main assumption of models based on it was that there exists a single (unique) equilibrium in the economy that is set ahead of time, determined independently of demand conditions. The experience of the 1990s suggests that this assumption cannot be sustained.\n\nThe Phillips curve started as an empirical observation in search of a theoretical explanation. Specifically, the Phillips curve tried to determine whether the inflation-unemployment link was causal or simply correlational. There are several major explanations of the short-term Phillips curve regularity.\n\nTo Milton Friedman there is a short-term correlation between inflation shocks and employment. When an inflationary surprise occurs, workers are fooled into accepting lower pay because they do not see the fall in real wages right away. Firms hire them because they see the inflation as allowing higher profits for given nominal wages. This is a movement along the Phillips curve as with change A. Eventually, workers discover that real wages have fallen, so they push for higher money wages. This causes the Phillips curve to shift upward and to the right, as with B. Some research underlines that some implicit and serious assumptions are actually in the background of the Friedmanian Phillips curve. This information asymmetry and a special pattern of flexibility of prices and wages are both necessary if one wants to maintain the mechanism told by Friedman. However, as it is argued, these presumptions remain completely unrevealed and theoretically ungrounded by Friedman.\n\nEconomists such as Edmund Phelps reject this theory because it implies that workers suffer from money illusion. According to them, rational workers would only react to real wages, that is, inflation adjusted wages. However, one of the characteristics of a modern industrial economy is that workers do not encounter their employers in an atomized and perfect market. They operate in a complex combination of imperfect markets, monopolies, monopsonies, labor unions, and other institutions. In many cases, they may lack the bargaining power to \"act on\" their expectations, no matter how rational they are, or their perceptions, no matter how free of money illusion they are. It is not that high inflation \"causes\" low unemployment (as in Milton Friedman's theory) as much as \"vice versa\": Low unemployment raises worker bargaining power, allowing them to successfully push for higher nominal wages. To protect profits, employers raise prices.\n\nSimilarly, built-in inflation is not simply a matter of subjective \"inflationary expectations\" but also reflects the fact that high inflation can gather momentum and continue beyond the time when it was started, due to the objective price/wage spiral.\n\nHowever, other economists, like Jeffrey Herbener, argue that price is market-determined and competitive firms cannot simply raise prices. They reject the Phillips curve entirely, concluding that unemployment's influence is only a small portion of a much larger inflation picture that includes prices of raw materials, intermediate goods, cost of raising capital, worker productivity, land, and other factors.\n\nRobert J. Gordon of Northwestern University has analyzed the Phillips curve to produce what he calls the triangle model, in which the actual inflation rate is determined by the sum of\n\n\nThe last reflects inflationary expectations and the price/wage spiral. Supply shocks and changes in built-in inflation are the main factors shifting the short-run Phillips Curve and changing the trade-off. In this theory, it is not only inflationary expectations that can cause stagflation. For example, the steep climb of oil prices during the 1970s could have this result.\n\nChanges in built-in inflation follow the partial-adjustment logic behind most theories of the NAIRU:\n\n\nIn between these two lies the NAIRU, where the Phillips curve does not have any inherent tendency to shift, so that the inflation rate is stable. However, there seems to be a range in the middle between \"high\" and \"low\" where built-in inflation stays stable. The ends of this \"non-accelerating inflation range of unemployment rates\" change over time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8955271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8955271", "title": "Ranquil massacre", "text": "Ranquil massacre\n\nThe Ranquil massacre () was a massacre of forestry workers by the Chilean Army in the upper Bio-Bio River in 1934. The upper Bio-Bio region had recently been opened for Chilean and foreign settlers due to the occupation of the Araucania, and huge extensions of former Mapuche land were available. The workers rebelled against the lumber mill administrators, later the Chilean Army was called to restore order. 477 workers and Mapuches were killed as result. Around 500 prisoners were taken.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28178419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28178419", "title": "Smoking in the United States military", "text": "Smoking in the United States military\n\nSmoking in the United States military has been observed in previous wars, but smoking's close association with the United States military started in World War I when tobacco companies began to target military personnel through the distribution of cigarettes to servicemen and the eventual inclusion of cigarettes into rations. Although the military has attempted to implement tobacco control initiatives, the association between smoking and military personnel has persisted to the present day as smoking rates remain high, despite declines in civilian rates. Such high rates have led to questions about the effect of smoking from the apparent health risks to troop readiness and training costs.\n\nWith the entrance of the United States into World War I in 1918, cigarette use increased dramatically among United States military personnel as they were targeted by tobacco companies which touted cigarettes as a way for soldiers to psychologically escape from their current circumstances, boosting overall troop morale. Cigarettes became so integrated into life on the battlefield that these symbols of pleasure and comfort were also used as a form of currency. Although cigarettes had been regarded as a physical and moral hazard by early anti-tobacco movements around this time, by 1918, previously anti-cigarette organizations and the military began supporting efforts to distribute cigarettes to troops. \"The New York Times\" garnered support for these efforts by stating that cigarettes \"lighten[ed] the inevitable hardships of war\", and another popular periodical described cigarettes as the \"last and only solace of the wounded.\" With the rise of World War II, tobacco companies continued to foster this culture of wartime smoking by sending free cigarettes to troops and supporting the inclusion of cigarettes into the soldiers' rations. Advertisements also encouraged citizens back home to support the troops by sending cigarettes. In 1965, first during the U.S. Army’s Basic Training Course & later in Pre-Airborne Infantry Training, while being allowed a break from P.T., or during a long march, it was commonplace for a Drill Sergeant to say \"smoke ’em if you got ’em, do pushups if you don’t\". Non-smoking soldiers would quickly \"bum\" a cigarette from a friend & they too would soon be smokers. Despite mounting evidence in the 1950s of the adverse health effects of smoking and tobacco use, the military continued to include cigarettes in rations until 1975.\n\nWith the scientific data about the health risks of smoking and information about the effect of smoking on troop readiness, in 1975, the United States Department of Defense discontinued the inclusion of cigarettes in K-rations and C-rations. By 1978, the Department of Defense had implemented basic smoking regulations, including the designation of smoking and nonsmoking areas. In 1985, the Department of Defense conducted a study that revealed that smoking rates of military personnel (47%) were significantly higher than that of US civilians (30%) and concluded that smoking had a negative effect on troop readiness. The report also cited an estimated tobacco-related healthcare costs as high as $209.9 million, and recommended potential methods to curb smoking in the military, including the elimination of tobacco products from stores, raising tobacco prices to civilian levels, and the implementation of an educational program to discourage smoking. In 1986, the DoD Directive 1010.10 was issued by Secretary of Defense Caspar Weinberger, who announced, \"an intense anti-smoking campaign…at all levels of all Services.\" It established a policy on smoking and other health risk behaviors such as alcohol consumption. The policy banned the use of tobacco during basic training, increased the number of designated nonsmoking areas, and prohibited health care providers from smoking on duty. The goal of the policy was to reduce all tobacco use rates to below that of civilians, and to reduce personnel and active duty rates from 52% to 25% by 1990. In 1992, the DeCA Directive 40-13 policy prohibited commissaries and exchanges from participating with promotions by tobacco manufacturers directed specifically at military personnel, and required commissaries to stock cigarettes in the back. In 1993, the became the first smoke-free Navy ship. By 1994, the Department of Defense had implemented Directive 1010.15 which banned smoking in workplaces, designated outdoor smoking areas, and created the precursor of an education program that sought to distribute information to new personnel on the health effects of smoking and to encourage smokers to quit. Executive Order 13508 in 1997 banned smoking in all government-owned, rented, or leased interior spaces, but the Department of Defense approved a three-year phase-in period for their facilities and eventually implemented the ban on December 7, 2002. Despite these attempts, by 1988, the smoking rate had only decreased to 42% and far exceeded the rate of civilians. And although prevalence did decrease to 29.9% from 1980 to 1998, it has increased since then and appears to still be increasing.\n\nRealizing the opportunities of a worldwide military market due to the young demographics of military personnel and the smoking initiation associated with new recruits, the Tobacco Institute, which served as the tobacco industry's lobbying organization, and Philip Morris perceived these new tobacco control initiatives as a threat and conceived strategies to circumvent the government policies. Another incentive for the tobacco industry to protect its military market was the recognized phenomenon that consumer product preferences developed during years serving in the military would later translate into civilian market profits as service members left the military or retired. After the implementation of Directive 1010.10 in 1986, the Tobacco Institute and Philip Morris immediately began seeking the support of tobacco-friendly politicians against the policy, citing that the policy would have a negative impact on military recruitment, retention, and morale. Furthermore, letters sent to Secretary of Defense Weinberger from politicians invoked rhetoric about the infringement of \"personal rights\" and \"an individual's right to smoke.\" Such political lobbying helped to limit the implementation and the further extension of Directive 1010.10.\n\nAlthough the Department of Defense had discontinued the practice of free distribution of cigarettes during wartime, tobacco companies began campaigns during the Gulf War (1990-1991) to distribute free cigarettes to soldiers stationed in Saudi Arabia, but would eventually be rebuffed by the Department of Defense. Regardless, Philip Morris then began a campaign of sales through direct mail, and extended promotions to deployed troops that included the delivery of branded goods such as playing cards and cup cozies. Curiously enough, the military actually assisted the tobacco companies in delivering shipments to military stores in Saudi Arabia at government expense. Another controversy arose when it was discovered that RJ Reynolds had placed their company name on the front and a Camel advertisement on the back of donated magazines from Operation Desert News, a civilian project to bring magazines to the troops. In spite of the initial rejection by the Department of Defense due to the advertisement, constant pressure from RJ Reynolds and politicians allowed the magazines to be delivered with the advertisement at government expense, violating military policy that forbade tobacco-branded promotions directed at military personnel. In addition, Philip Morris focused on promoting the Marlboro brand with the goal of fostering corporate good will by initiating the \"Marlboro holiday voice card\" program. Held on 10 military bases, they invited family of deployed personnel to record a message for onto a chip inserted into a greeting card, and later allowed bases to extend the recording of such messages to the public. Despite being in violation of Department of Defense policy concerning tobacco-branded programs directed at military personnel, Philip Morris had received permission to carry out the program from the Defense Logistics Agency, the Morale, Welfare and Recreation headquarters of the services, and base commanders. Furthermore, after troops were withdrawn from the conflict in 1991, tobacco companies sponsored \"Welcome Home\" events for returning troops featuring extensive brand promotion. Although the Department of Defense had enacted policies to reduce tobacco use amongst personnel, the successful efforts of tobacco companies as well as the cultural factors of smoking in the military have produced a mixed message of tobacco promotion and reduction to military personnel.\n\nIn 2005, the smoking rate of military personnel was found to be 32.2%, compared to the civilian rate of 21%. The higher smoking rate suggests that certain aspects of military may foster smoking. These factors include peer influence, combat stress, boredom, and easy access to cheap tobacco products. Another factor that may lead to increased tobacco use is deployment. One study found that among nonsmokers, smoking initiation was observed in 1.3% of nondeployed personnel while 2.3% were observed in deployed personnel. Among past smokers, resumption of smoking occurred in 28.7% of non deployed personnel and 39.4% of deployed personnel, while smoking increased 44% among the former and 57% among the latter. US troops in Iraq and Afghanistan have been reported to smoke at twice the rate of other Americans. Even after leaving the service, many veterans continue to smoke as the prevalence of smoking among veterans has been reported to be 27% during 2003 to 2007, and military smoking is strongly associated with increased lifelong cigarette consumption. Such high levels of smoking have led to significant costs to the Department of Defense. The costs of smoking among US military health care system beneficiaries have been estimated to be more than $900 million per year in 1995, with $584 million in direct health care costs and $346 million in lost productivity among active duty personnel. Suicide, which accounts for 13% of fatalities in the military, has also been tied to smoking, as the risk of suicide among military men was found to increase significantly with the number of cigarettes smoked daily. Smoking also affects training costs as smokers are more likely to be discharged during training, and are associated with $18 million per year in excess training costs for the US Air Force, and over $130 million per year for all service branches.\n\nNote that the figures regarding smoking and suicide and manpower losses during training may represent more of a symptomatic relationship than a causative one. Many discharges during basic training result from a series of minor infractions, punished administratively as opposed to by courts-martial, which are seen as an indicator that the trainee cannot or will not adjust to military life, rather than any single incident or serious violation of regulations. With smoking now prohibited in basic training, being caught smoking, and perhaps even being caught in the possession of cigarettes, is such an offense which smokers are obviously at risk for while non smokers are not. Regarding suicide, the figures showing increased rates of smoking and resumption of smoking among those deployed indicates that smoking may be a reaction to and indicator or increased stress, and a person who is potentially suicidal would obviously be under a more than typical degree of stress, so increased smoking may be an indicator of that excessive stress rather than a cause for increased risk of suicide. Also, a higher rate of smoking among those discharged during training may also be indicative of individuals for whom training is more than normally stressful, and such persons would likely experience more difficulty in successfully completing training than one who is not unusually (compared to his/her peers)stressed by it.\n\nIn 2008 unauthorized smoking and improper storage of chemicals caused major damage to USS George Washington (CVN-73).\n\nThe Department of Defense hoped to lower rates of tobacco use to 12% by the end of 2010. To achieve their goal, Pentagon health experts have begun to urge the Defense Secretary Robert Gates to ban the use of tobacco by troops and end its sale on military property. The Navy implemented a ban on smoking in submarines by the end of 2010 – highlighting one of the last loopholes in the indoor smoking ban imposed in 1994.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41061546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41061546", "title": "St. Patrick's Society of Montreal", "text": "St. Patrick's Society of Montreal\n\nThe St. Patrick's Society of Montreal (French: Société Saint-Patrick de Montréal) is the oldest fraternal organization in Canada. In existence since March 17, 1834, it predates the Société Saint-Jean Baptiste by three months. The St. Patrick's Society continues to be a leader in Montreal's Irish community, organizing such annual events as the St. Patrick's Ball, the St. Patrick's Luncheon, and the St. Patrick's Society's annual Christmas concert. The Society's current President is Scott Phelan.\n\nThere is evidence of Irish immigrants in Quebec as far back as the 1760s. The first St. Patrick's Parade was organized by Michael O'Sullivan in 1824. By 1834, a group of notable businessmen gathered to form what is now known as the St. Patrick’s Society of Montreal, founded on March 17, 1834 at McCabe’s Hotel in Old Montreal. The first executive officers of the Society were President John Donnellan, Vice Presidents Hon. Michael O'Sullivan, Benjamin Holmes, and Thomas A. Begley, Treasurer John M. Tobin, Corresponding Secretary S. Sweeney, and Recording Secretary H. McGregor, who were supported by twelve committee members. Many involved were longstanding leaders of the community. In the March 20, 1824 edition of the Canadian Spectator mention is made of M. O'Sullivan Esq being in the chair at a Hibernian Society dinner. O'Sullivan is reported to have expressed how shameful it was that \"St. Patrick's Day had never before been met with a public celebration\". In the 1831 Montreal Almanack John Donnellan is listed as President of the Montreal Hibernian Benevolent Society.\n\nThe Society was not a political organization, but was largely charitable and national in purpose, and was principally social and educational. However, it was founded mainly by Irish Protestants in the spring of 1834 in order to oppose the 92 Resolutions sent by Lower-Canadian Louis-Joseph Papineau's Patriotes to the British Government. In that sense, loyalty to the Crown was central to the founding of St. Patrick's Society. The Society was at first non-sectarian. The first President was John Donnellan, a prominent Montreal citizen.\n\nThe founding of the Society was closely followed by the establishment of the St. Jean Baptiste Society in June 1834, the St. Andrew's Society in February 1835, the German Society of Montreal on April 21, 1835, the St. George’s Society on April 27, 1835 and later the St. David’s Society and the Caledonian Society. The beautiful spirit of friendliness and cooperation among the so-called Sister Anglophone Societies since their inception has been notable and has persisted throughout the years. The St. Patrick's Society, the St. Andrew's Society and the St. George's Society were opposed to the Patriotes bas-canadiens who founded the Société Saint-Jean-Baptiste, named \"Aide-toi et le Ciel t'aidera\" at its inception in 1834 by former 1st Mayor of Montréal, Jacques Viger. The national qualities and purposes of the various anglophone bodies were commented upon by the Honourable Peter McGill, the first English-speaking Mayor of Montreal, at a dinner given by St. Patrick’s Society on the evening of March 17, 1836.\n\nThe Society continued as non-sectarian until the year 1856, under the able presidency of such men as John Donnellan, Benjamin Holmes, Sir Francis Hincks, Bernard Devlin, W.F. Batley, Thomas Ryan and many others, at which time the non-Catholic members were encouraged to establish a society of their own. This separation was largely the work of Reverend Patrick Dowd. As a result, the Catholic members retained the old name of the Society, and the non-Catholic members assumed the name “Irish Protestant Benevolent Society”. Among those who vigorously opposed the separation was Sir William Hales Hingston, a prominent surgeon and later, the Mayor of Montreal, who tendered his resignation from the Society as a gesture against what he termed the uncalled for division. Hingston would likely have been happy to discover that the Society returned to its non-denominational origins in the latter part of the twentieth century.\n\nOne of the most illustrious members of the Society was the Honourable Thomas D’Arcy McGee, the poet, newspaper editor and Member of Parliament for Montreal West, whose great eloquence played a crucial role in the formation of the Dominion of Canada. Despite his fame and position, he was expelled from the Society in 1868 as a result of his strong condemnation of the Fenian movement, because the Society had by then been taken over by a majority of Fenian members or sympathizers. Shortly after his expulsion from the Society, McGee was assassinated in Ottawa on April 7, 1868. Perhaps somewhat hypocritically, the Society forwarded a letter of condolence to his family expressing their abhorrence of the crime and arranged for his burial in Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery on Mount Royal. His tomb has ever since been looked after by St. Patrick’s Society. At the 178th annual meeting, held June 19, 2012 at the Hyatt Regency Hotel, the members witnessed a highly informative and entertaining debate between David Wilson and J. Peter Shea, the Society's historian, about the merits of reinstating McGee's membership posthumously. After the debate, which lasted forty minutes, the members present voted overwhelmingly in favour of reinstatement after 144 years as a Society outcast.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Great War in August 1914, realizing that it was vitally important that the Irish community of Montreal play their part in the defence of Canada, members of the Society were largely instrumental in the formation of an Irish Canadian Regiment. Hence, in the fall of 1914, the 55th Regiment, Irish Canadian Rangers, under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Harry Trihey, K.C. and Major William O’Brien, a prominent Montreal stock-broker, came into being. Later, towards the end of January 1916, it was decided to form an Overseas Battalion, and the Canadian Infantry Battalion, Irish Canadian Rangers (later to be known as the 199th Battalion Duchess of Connaught's Own Irish Rangers, CEF), commenced recruiting. Practically all the officers, non-commissioned officers and men of the old 55th Regiment offered their services for overseas, and thanks to St. Patrick’s Society, the Battalion’s colours were formally presented on the Champ de Mars in June 1916.\n\nThe Society played a headership role with respect to scholarships, child welfare, Irish Home Rule and other kindred matters. It would be impossible to describe in this brief history all the events to which the Society lent its interest during its existence, such as the building of St. Patrick’s Church (now Basilica), the formal opening of Notre Dame des Neiges Cemetery, the Golden and Diamond Jubilee of St. Patrick’s Church, St. Patrick’s Orphanage, Father Dowd’s Home and St. Mary’s Hospital, to name but a few.\n\nIn 1977, just over one hundred years since the destruction of St. Patrick’s Hall by fire, St. Patrick’s Square, a 252-unit pre-retirement building and community located in Côte St. Luc, was officially opened by Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau. The project was launched with seed funds provided by the Society in cooperation with the Federal Government, and through the leadership of the renowned Montreal architect and President of the Society, Joseph Dunne. The Society’s office has been situated there ever since.\n\nThe Society was originally responsible for maintaining the annual St. Patrick’s Day Parade, which was held under its auspices from 1834 to 1916. The event was discontinued in 1917 owing to war conditions, but was renewed the following year under the direction of the Ancient Order of Hibernians until 1928, and since that date the parade has been under the direction of the United Irish Societies of Montreal.\n\nOf the six Irish mayors of Montreal in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries – William Workman, Francis Cassidy, K.C., Sir William Hingston, James McShane, Richard Wilson-Smith and the Honourable James J. Guerin – all were members of St. Patrick’s Society of Montreal, and three were Presidents of the Society: Workman, Cassidy and Guerin. Other Past Presidents of the Society include a pre-Confederation co-premier of the Province of Canada and later federal minister of finance (Sir Francis Hincks), a federal minister of Justice (Charles J. Doherty) as well as a number of other prominent politicians, judges, business leaders and others.\n\nAfter the various waves of nineteenth-century immigration from Ireland, by the turn of the twentieth century the membership of the Society essentially was composed of second-, third- and fourth-generation Irish-Canadians. By the mid-twentieth century, the Society’s main social celebrations and fundraising activities were its Annual Charity Ball and its Annual St. Patrick’s Day Luncheon, both of which had evolved from the original banquets and dinners of the early nineteenth century. A key feature of the Annual Charity Ball was and still is the presence of special invited guests, which include a special guest of honour and the presidents or other representatives of the Sister Societies, such as the St. Andrew’s Society, the St. David’s Society, the German Society, the Irish Protestant Benevolent Society and the United Irish Societies. The annual St. Patrick’s Day celebration is now a business-type luncheon, with a guest speaker (almost always with an Irish background) who has played a prominent role in politics, business, academia, the arts, law, journalism or otherwise.\n\nPerhaps, as a result of the worldwide exposure for Montreal and Canada generated by Expo 67 and the celebrations surrounding Canada’s centennial, there was a new ripple of Irish immigration to Canada and Montreal in the late 1970s and 1980s. The Society and the Montreal Irish community were the beneficiaries of the contributions of this new generation of arrivals, who have contributed greatly to the preservation and enjoyment of Irish culture and tradition in Montreal. The Society’s newsletter, Nuacht, was largely the product of the 1970s- and 1980s-era immigrants. This period also saw the renewal of interest in things Irish, such as Irish traditional music, the Irish language, Irish dance, Irish theatre, Irish sports and Irish cinema. The Society took a leading role in promoting and financially supporting these cultural endeavours. The culmination of this renaissance of interest in Irish culture in Montreal was the creation of the Canadian Irish Studies Foundation in 1995. Members of the Society, most notably Michael Kenneally, Brian Gallery, Peter O’Brien and others, played leading roles in the effort to raise funds to provide courses in Canadian Irish studies at Concordia University, which itself is the successor institution of Loyola College which had long been associated with the Irish in Montreal. St. Patrick’s Society contributed the original seed money to launch the successful capital campaign of the Canadian Irish Studies Foundation, which raised millions of dollars. In 2010, due to overwhelming interest in the courses being offered and the great success of the capital campaign, the School of Canadian Irish Studies – the first in Canada – was created at Concordia University with the financial support of the university and the Canadian Irish Studies Foundation.\n\nIn 2009, as part of the year-long celebration of the Society’s 175th anniversary, the Society, in cooperation with the Irish Protestant Benevolent Society and the Government of Quebec, funded and launched a very successful year-long exhibition about the contributions of the Irish to Quebec life entitled “Being Irish O’Quebec” at the McCord Museum of Canadian History in Montreal.\n\nThe Society has evolved greatly since 1834, yet remains true to its roots. In 2011, the Society organized and sponsored welcoming receptions and job networking events for young Irish immigrants to Montreal, who were not fleeing discrimination and famine like many of the original members of the Society but rather declining economic conditions in Ireland.\n\nIn 1983, the Society admitted for the first time a woman, Beverly Rozek, to full membership and, in 1998, the members of the Society elected its first woman President, Lynn Lonergan Doyle.\n\nTo enable the Society to fund and carry out its mission, the Society has an endowment and organizes numerous major annual fundraising events. Together with the traditional Annual Charity Ball and the Annual St. Patrick’s Day Luncheon, the Society also holds an annual Christmas concert and an annual golf tournament. The moneys raised at these events fund the operations of the Society, which is a registered federal charity, allows the Society to organize and sponsors a large number of cultural and educational activities that are open to all and to make significant donations to other Montreal charities and not-for-profit organizations that serve the less fortunate, homeless, children, families and elderly of the city, both Irish and non-Irish.\n\nThe Society's presidents have come from a wide array of professions including politicians, lawyers, jurists, doctors, and educators..\n\n1834-35\nJohn Donnelan\n\n1836-38\nBenjamin Holmes\n\n1839\nP.N. Rossiter\n\n1843\nBenjamin Holmes\n\n1844\nWilliam Workman\n\n1845-48\nSir Francis Hincks K.C.M.G., P.C.\n\n1852-53\nThomas Ryan\n\n1854-55\nW.P. Bartley\n\n1856-57\nDr. Henry Howard\n\n1858\nHon. Mr. Justice Marcus Doherty\n\n1859\nBernard Devlin, Q.C.\n\n1860\nEdward Murphy, Q.C.\n\n1861\nHon. Mr. Justice Marcus Doherty\n\n1862\nJames A. Sadlier\n\n1863-64\nThomas McKenna\n\n1865-67\nBernard Devlin, Q.C.\n\n1868\nJames E. Mullin\n\n1869\nF.B. McNamee\n\n1870\nBernard Devlin, Q.C.\n\n1871\nMichael Donovan\n\n1872\nJames Howley\n\n1873\nFrancis Cassidy, Q.C.\n\n1874-77\nBernard Devlin, Q.C.\n\n1878\nP.J. Coyle\n\n1879-82\nF.B. McNamee\n\n1883\nH.F. Bellew\n\n1884-88\nDenis Barry\n\n1889-90\nHon. Henry J. Cloran\n\n1891-92\nHon. Mr. Justice J.J. Curran\n\n1893-94\nHon. James McShane\n\n1895-97\nDr. James J. Guerin\n\n1898-99\nDr. E.J.C. Kennedy\n\n1900\nW.E. Doran\n\n1902-03\nThe Rt. Hon. Charles J. Doherty, K.C.\n\n1904\nDr. E.J. Devlin\n\n1905-06\nHon. Mr. Justice Frank J. Curran\n\n1907-08\nW.P. Kearney\n\n1909-10\nHenry J. Kavanaugh, K.C.\n\n1911\nHon. Mr. Justice J.C. Walsh\n\n1913-14\nDr. Walter G. Kennedy\n\n1915\nE. McG. Quirk\n\n1916\nG.H. Semple\n\n1917\nM.A. Phelan, K.C.\n\n1918\nHon. John T. Hackett, K.C.\n\n1919\nHon. Mr. Justice John D. Purcell\n\n1920\nWm. M. Weir\n\n1921-22\nDr. F. J. Hackett\n\n1923-24\nDr. E.J.C. Kennedy\n\n1925\nAndrew E. Murray\n\n1926-27\nDr. E. J. Mullally\n\n1928\nDr. F. J. Hackett\n\n1929-30\nCouncillor Leo J. McKenna\n\n1931\nHon. Mr. Justice Frederick T. Collins\n\n1932-33\nJ.P. Callaghan, K.C.\n\n1934\nAndrew E. Murray\n\n1935-36\nJudge John W. Long\n\n1937\nAlderman Owen Callary\n\n1938-39\nJames C. Laffoley\n\n1940-41\nDr. L.P. Nelligan\n\n1942-43\nJudge Emmett J. McManamy\n\n1944-45\nRichard E. Quinn\n\n1947-48\nJ. Austin Murphy, Q.C.\n\n1949\nGilbert Carroll\n\n1950-51\nEdmund J. Cooney\n\n1952-53\nFrederick O. Reynolds\n\n1954-55\nJames J. Shanahan\n1955-57\nWilliam P. Kierans\n\n1957-59\nW. Edgar Doyle\n\n1959-61\nDr. J. Rae Carson\n\n1961-63\nJames H. McMahon\n\n1963-65\nJohn H. Sullivan, K.C.L.J.\n\n1965-67\nKenneth J. McKenna\n\n1967-69\nDenis F. Kindellan\n\n1969-71\nJoseph Dunne\n\n1971-72\nCharles H. Wayland\n\n1972-73\nJohn H. Sullivan, K.C.L.J.\n\n1973-75\nFrederick D. McCaffrey\n\n1975-77\nWilliam A. Shannon\n\n1977-79\nRichard C. Cooper\n\n1979-81\nPatrick Wickham\n\n1981-83\nHon. Mr. Justice James T. Kennedy\n\n1983-85\nAndrew W. Fogarty\n\n1985-87\nWilliam H. Wilson\n\n1987-89\nEdward W. Tinmouth\n\n1989-91\nDonald W. McNaughton\n\n1991-93\nDr. Gus Ó Gormáin\n\n1993-96\nDr. Michael Kenneally\n\n1996-98\nBrian O’Neill\n\n1998-2000\nLynn Lonergan Doyle\n\n2000-02\nJ. Peter Shea\n\n2002-04\nDr. Patrick Dunn\n\n2004-06\nDr. John Little\n\n2006-08\nMary McDaid\n\n2008-10\nAlistair O’Hara\n\n2010-12\nPatrick M. Shea\n\n2012-14\nPaul Dunne\n\n2014-16\nJames Killin\n\n2016-18\nScott Phelan\n\n2018-\nChristie Brown\n"}
{"id": "53493969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53493969", "title": "The Irregular at Magic High School The Movie: The Girl Who Calls the Stars", "text": "The Irregular at Magic High School The Movie: The Girl Who Calls the Stars\n\nIn the story, the seasons have changed and it will soon be the second spring. Tatsuya and Miyuki have finished their first year at first magic high school and are on their spring break. The two go with their friends to a villa on the Ogasawara Island archipelago. After only a small moment of peace, they find a young girl named Kokoa. She has escaped an experimental lab at the Naval base and the group decides to save her and the others still beholden to the cruel CAD experiments.\n\nThe development of the movie was revealed in the 19th light novel volume released in March 2016. The film will feature a plot scripted by series creator Tsutomu Satō, and will premiere in Japan on June 17, 2017. All of the voice actors from the anime will reprise their roles.\n\nAt the Dengeki Game Festival 2017 event in Tokyo on Sunday March 12, more details were revealed about the film, including additional cast members, the theme song artist, and a fourth key visual. Also, the film's official website added the promotional video for the film. Risako Yoshida, who served as the unit director and a storyboarder on the anime television series, is directing the film at studio 8-Bit. Original light novel series illustrator Kana Ishida is returning to serve as the character designer and chief animation director. Original light novel author Tsutomu Satō is writing an original new story for the film, and he and WriteWorks are writing the script. Taku Iwasaki is returning to compose the music. On April 19, the official website revealed three new cast members and a new visual, and on April 29, the third teaser was shown, including the date of a special screening. On May 31, the official website began streaming a trailer for film. This included information about the original novel from Sato about Lina's past. It included the date of a special screening and the date fora meet and greet with the film's main personnel. On June 13, Aniplex showed the first two minutes of the film\n\nOn June 10, 2017, Aniplex of America announced they had acquired the film for an English-language release, and announced that it would screen the film beginning on July 28, 2017. In Australia and New Zealand, Madman Entertainment announced at SMASH! 2017 that they had licensed the film for screening, and premiered the film on November 2, 2017. The film was also screened in South East Asia by Odex.\n\nAniplex released Blu-ray & DVD versions of the film in Japan on January 24, 2018.\n\nThe film's theme song is \"Speed Star\" by Garnidelia.\n\nOn its opening weekend, the film debuted in 59 theaters across Japan and grossed a total of from 107,000 admissions, opening at #5 at the Japanese box office.\n\n"}
{"id": "23847401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23847401", "title": "Western Rising and disafforestation riots", "text": "Western Rising and disafforestation riots\n\nThe Western Rising was a series of riots which took place during 1626–1632 in Gillingham Forest on the Wiltshire-Dorset border, Braydon Forest in Wiltshire, and the Forest of Dean, Gloucestershire, in response to disafforestation of royal forests, sale of royal lands and enclosure of property by the new owners.\n\nThere were contemporaneous uprisings in Feckenham Forest and Leicester Forest. Riots also took place at Malvern Chase, where enclosure was largely successfully opposed.\n\nRiot and breaching enclosures were not the only form of opposition to disafforestation. In many cases, landowners and tenants felt the compensation they were offered was unfair, and they sought to challenge decisions through the legal system. In at least one case, a town council, the Corporation of Leicester, and borough residents took legal action because of the effect on the poorest forest dwellers, who were likely to become a burden on the town's poor relief.\n\nThe 1626–1632 riots were followed by further riots at many of the same locations during the English Civil War and the following Interregnum as disafforestation proceeded and continued to be contested.\n\nAs early as 1608–1612, King James I of England's minister Robert Cecil investigated the reform of Royal forests, aiming to increase the income due to the Crown. Cecil's investigations led to more intensive working of the Forest of Dean, and higher revenues from wood sold for iron smelting. Lionel Cranfield accelerated the policy in the 1620s with commissions to determine the scale of the Royal estates within forests and negotiate compensation for their sale and enclosure.\n\nCharles I of England's decision in 1629 to govern without Parliament meant greater urgency in finding further sources of income which did not require legislation. Sale of Royal lands, especially Royal forests, was an obvious means of raising short term funds. The forests were also increasingly seen as insufficiently productive.\n\nHowever, many people depended on forest lands for income. As forest law had for many years not been enforced except as a means to raise income, land had been encroached and many people were living there without permission. Timber and grazing rights were very important for commoners. The rights to common had been created through custom rather than legal entitlement: forest law itself was extremely harsh.\n\nThe participants of the disorders following enclosure tended to be artisans and waged or self-employed labourers. Many were therefore resident within the forest with small holdings, rather than being peasants primarily dependant on agricultural production. In the Forest of Dean, many were miners whose rights to dig for ore were threatened. Contemporaries within government suspected local men of standing, such as the landowning gentry, of being behind the riots, and looked for evidence that they were involved in their organisation.\n\nAlthough the term 'Western Rising' implies an organised effort across the different threatened Royal forests, there is only occasional evidence that the different communities communicated or tried to co-ordinate their activities. Nevertheless, many tactics were shared, including the use of traditional \"Lady Skimmington\" costume and parades to show community disapproval and organise action to break down enclosures. In arrest warrants, leaders were often identified as \"\"alias\" Skimmington\".\n\nThe first riots were in Gillingham Forest, Dorset. Commissions headed by Sir James Fullerton were sent in February and May 1625, to work out compensation for freeholders and copyholders in Gillingham and Mere. In order for the settlement to be made legally binding, the Attorney General then brought an action against the tenants in the Court of the Exchequer, which issued the final decree in May 1627, allowing for adjustments to the compensation were made by a commission which finalised arrangements in October. Much of the land was granted to Fullerton in 1625. The terms were renegotiated in 1628 to help him repay debts. Further arrangements were made to ensure these debts were paid from the forest lands in 1630, shortly before his death.\n\nRiots took place through 1626–1628. In December 1626, Star Chamber ordered the attachment (arrest) of fourteen men and twelve of their wives. Seven were brought to trial, and four of the men were fined. in 1628, soldiers destroyed some of the new enclosures, presumably incited to do so by the locals. Further trials at Star Chamber took place. Deer were killed and plants to be used in the new enclosures were burnt. Threats were made against the labourers employed by Fullerton to build the enclosures. Messengers from Star Chamber were assaulted and prisoners released.\n\nThe Privy Council took the Gillingham riots very seriously, saying that \"such like rude actions [must] not be tolerated in a well governed state\". An attempt to restore order was made in late 1628, when the Sheriff of Dorset was instructed to arrest 100 rioters. Faced with a much larger and well-armed crowd, he retreated.\n\nParticular efforts were made by the government to arrest Henry Hoskins, a yeoman, John Phillips, a tanner and John Williams, believing them to be serious ringleaders. However, Sharp concludes that \"although these men were important as leaders of riots in their home areas, the government's fears were grounded upon little more than unsubstantiated rumors ... these rumors have misled modern historians into ascribing Hoskins, Phillips and Williams larger roles in the Western Rising than they actually played\".\n\nMost of the rioters were artisans, including weavers and tailors. Many would have depended on forest reduce, such as tanners, glove makers and carpenters. They would have been unlikely to be entitled to compensation and so were among the most badly affected by disafforestation.\n\nAround 2,400 acres were sold by the Crown, with 750 acres being set aside to compensate tenants and cottagers. The poor of Mere received little, however.\n\nThe object of the Crown was not complete disafforestation in the Forest of Dean, as both timber and iron ore could be exploited for the Crown's profit without leasing the lands. During James I and Charles I's reigns, sales of wood for use in iron works were increased. Some land was enclosed in order for ore to be dug. Around 3,000 acres were however granted to \"courtiers and government officials\" with the intention that they exploit the lands for grazing, iron and coal mining and charcoal production. 17,000 acres was to be left to be worked by those claiming common land rights.\n\nRiots ensued. In March 1631, the enclosures were destroyed. An assembly of 500 men, \"with two drummers, two coulers and one fife in a warlike and outrageous manner did assemble themselves together armed with gunnes, pokes, halberds and other weapons\". They destroyed enclosures granted to Tristram Flower in the Snead, then onto lands granted in 1625 to Sir Edward Villiers, the half brother of Buckingham. Villier's widow Lady Barbara Villiers's agent Robert Bridges was shot at and threatened, iron ore pits filled in and enclosures broken. An effigy of Lady Villier's agent, the \"odious projector\" Sir Giles Mompesson was thrown into the pits and buried.\n\nIn April 1631, 3,000 rioters with banners and drums removed most of the remaining enclosures elsewhere in the forest and attacked houses of the improvers. By the end of the month, all of the 1628 enclosures had been removed. Over the next two years, the rioters attempted to destroy enclosures as they were put back in place.\n\nOn 26 July 1626 Sir John Bridgeman, John Essington (keeper of the king's woods in Wiltshire) and others were given a commission to survey the forest and compound (settle) with the local freeholders and copyholders. They reported the following year, but the complex land relationships meant that a further commission in 1629 was needed to ensure compensation would be granted to everyone who was entitled to it.\n\nin November 1627, 4,000 acres were granted for 41 years to Phillip Jacobsen, the Crown jeweller, and the London merchant Edward Sewster. They paid £21,000, plus £11,000 as an entry fine, and £10,000 for game and timber and an ironworks licence. A further annual rent of £450 was to be paid They were permitted to enclose the lands and lease them to new tenants.\n\nAs with Gillingham, the next step was to establish the precise settlement and rights through actions at the Court of Exchequer, which confirmed the settlement in 1628 and 1630.\n\nRiots broke out in May–June 1631 when enclosures made by Jacobsen's agent Simon Keble were destroyed. Groups of perhaps over 1,000 rioters also threatened to kill Keble and destroy his workmen's houses. At least one was destroyed, belonging to a servant who had reported some of the rioters to the authorities. When the sheriff and a court official attempted to suppress the riots on behalf of Star Chamber, the crowds shot at them.\n\nAs Feckenham, Leicester and Malvern were further afield, disafforestation riots in these places were not classed as part of the Western Rising by contemporaries, but took place at the same time for roughly the same reasons.\n\nConsiderable pressure on the wooded areas as the result of the use of timber to fuel salt pans in Droitwich, a practice that had been recorded as far back as the Domesday Book. Demand for salt increased as the population grew. Much of the forest that had therefore been cut was being farmed by the time the forest was abolished in 1629.\n\nSir Miles Fleetwood was charged with surveying the lands before the disafforestation. The response of the inhabitants was to refuse to accept their allocation of common land, on the grounds that they had only agreed to them by \"for fear and by terrible threats\" and that their allocations did not compensate them for the loss of common rights. Ultimately 155 of them complained to the Court of Exchequer.\n\nNear the end of 1627, William Ashton and William Turnor were let the forest in return for a fine of £4,000 and a nominal annual rent of £20. This was confirmed in June 1629, when the disforestation of the forest was decreed, so that the 2100 acres of woodland and waste in the forest parishes of Hanbury, Feckenham and Bradley could be partitioned between the crown, the manorial lords and the commoners.\n\nA further commission in November 1630 reduced the crown's allocation in Hanbury from 550 to 460 acres, but this was still not accepted locally. The new owners were ordered to enclose their lands by 1 March 1631, but on 28 March, a riot took place in which three miles of fencing were thrown down. 300 people rioted the following year and were met by the Sheriff, a deputy lieutenant and a justice of the peace and forty armed men. The rioters \"in a most daring and presumptuous manner presented themselves unto us with warlike weapons (vizt) pikes, forrest bills, pitchforks, swords and the like\". On this occasion, the authorities acted to suppress this \"flatt rebellion\", tried to arrest the rioters and injured a number.\n\nUltimately, the crown and manorial lords were successful in enclosing their lands. The crown allocation in Hanbury was rapidly sold off. The Lord of Hanbury and Feckenham manors, Sir Edward Leighton gained around 80 acres in Monkwood and 360 acres around Feckenham.\n\nSir Miles Fleetwood was commissioned to survey and disafforest Leicester in December 1626 and March 1627. Commoners were to receive compensation where they could show a valid claim; many would not be able to, if they had settled of their own accord. The Attorney General then ensured that the arrangements were confirmed by the court of Exchequer in February 1628. The King then let 1,598 acres to nearby landowners for \"fines\" of £7,760 and small annual rents.\n\nRiots occurred in response, destroying existing enclosures in spring 1627 and again in 1628 following the final division of the lands. Legal challenges were also made, against both the rioters and the enclosures. The enclosures were challenged by local inhabitants, the Corporation of Leicester and borough residents who submitted petitions to the King and Privy Council. The Privy Council found nothing unjust about the dealings of Fleetwood however, so challenges were made in the House of Lords in June 1628. the Lords however supported Fleetwood. An order was then made by the Lords praising Fleetwood for adding substantial income to the Crown but however to halt Star Chamber proceedings against the rioters. Buchanan Sharp concludes that \"it may be surmised that a quid pro quo had been worked out: if the forest's inhabitants stopped rioting and petitioning, the government would drop all legal proceedings\".\n\nThe Crown made considerable compensation to local manorial lords and tenants as well as other residents. Five lords claimed around 2,755 acres were in use by their manors; of these 1,030 went to the King, and the rest to the manorial lords. The landowners had in turn to compensate their tenants for their losses. 554 acres went to tenants according to the size of their holdings, at around 4–6 acres to the yardland. Around 1.5–2 acres went to each cottage in addition. The Crown also compensated freeholders in other townships at a similar rate and gave 40 acres to the borough of Leicester for the maintenance of their poor. However, compensation would not have been made to the many families who had established homes on assart land (i.e., those who were occupying part of the forest without permission). The June 1628 petition to the House of Lords claimed that the families in 100 ancient cottages would not be compensated and neither would many more living in newly built cottages.\n\nIn 1630 Charles I granted one-third part of the Forest or Chace of Malvern to Sir Robert Heath, then Attorney-General, and Sir Cornelius Vermuyden. In the meantime many rights or claims of right had arisen by grant or long usages in the lapse of several centuries. When the grantees began to enclose the Chace the commoners and other persons interested disputed their right to do so. Several riots and disturbances took place in consequence.\n\nNevertheless, a decree was issued in 1632 for the \"disafforestation of the Chace of Malvern, and for freeing the lands within the bounds, limits, and jurisdictions thereof, of and from the game of deer there and the forest laws\". By this decree (to obviate all disputes) one-third part only was to be severed and divided by commissioners, but the other two parts \"shall remain and continue unto and amongst the commoners, and be held by them according to their several rights and interests, discharged and freed from his Majesty's game of deer there, and of and from the forest laws, and the liberties and franchises of Forest and Chace, in such sort as by the said decree it doth and may appear\".\n\nFurther disputes with landowners resulted in clarifications that any land that was disafforested had to be in proportion to the quality of the land as a whole, so that the common was not the most meagre land.\n\nFurther unrest took place during the run up to the Civil War, with episodes continuing to break out until the 1660s.\n\nIn the Forest of Dean, 22,000 acres were disafforested, with 4,000 going to manorial lords and freeholders in compensation in 1639. 18,000 acres were to go to the Crown, and granted to Sir John Winter. Riots ensured in 1641. Winter's claim to the lands was voided by Parliament in March 1642, in part because he had failed to pay. His assets were sequestrated for supporting the Crown during the Civil War. The Protectorate tried to enclose a third of the forest in 1657, leaving two thirds to the Commoners. Although a relatively generous settlement, it caused resistance in April and May 1659, when fences of new enclosures were broken and cattle brought in to graze. Royalists including Edward Massey attempted to bring the discontented to the side of Charles II.\n\nAfter the restoration, Sir John Winter successfully reasserted his right to the Forest of Dean. However, in 1668 forest law was reestablished by Act of Parliament. in 1672, the King's ironworks were closed, to reduce pressure on the forest from mining.\n\n"}
{"id": "8891448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8891448", "title": "Who's Who in the CIA", "text": "Who's Who in the CIA\n\nWho's Who in CIA is a book written by the East German journalist Julius Mader (AKA Thomas Bergner) and published in East Berlin in 1968, under Stasi auspices and probably with KGB assistance. Mader was a writer employed by the East German Military publishing house and apparently had access to some information on CIA officers that was not publicly available. The book purported to identify about 3,000 active agents of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency. It was modeled after other \"Who's Who\" guides.\n\nBiographical information was compiled with the cooperation of Mohamed Abdelnabi, Ambalal Bhatt, Fernando Gamarra and Shozo Ohashi. The book also includes fold-out organizational charts (late 1960s) of the following: American Intelligence Services, Office of Intelligence Research (OIR), Military Intelligence Headquarters of the USA, National Security Agency (NSA), Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), System of several cover organizations used by the CIA.\n\nMader had neither a publisher's statement nor a license number. He listed himself as an editor with the address of \"Dr. Julius Mader, 1066 Berlin W 66, Mauerstr. 66 at.\" In the book, two detachable cards were involved. The reader could send him corrections and additions as well as more names of CIA agents and other intelligence officials.\n\nMany famous people are listed in this book, including Bill Moyers, Lyndon Johnson, Robert McNamara, and others. More than once a 'new' CIA name has surfaced in Western media that had been sitting in Mader's book all along. Six agents from the CIA backed Chile coup of 1973 are also named in the book. A copy of this book without the dust cover has been on display at the International Spy Museum in Washington, DC.\n\nFrom \"Who's Who in CIA\":\n\nThe rulers of the USA are, of course, extremely interested in keeping the mantle of secrecy over their intelligence network. The invisible government shall have neither names nor faces. For this reason the time appeared to have come to demask a first representative selection of leading officials and officers, collaborators and agents of the US intelligence services who are operating on five continents. The result is this book whereby CIA is used as an appropriate synonym for the whole of the US intelligence system.\n\nThe book was later reviewed by Art Kunkin of the \"Los Angeles Free Press\" in March 1969. The review included excerpts and one of the five organizational fold out charts and can be found here: Hood College, JFK Files\n\nAccording to Ladislav Bittman of the Czechoslovakian StB, \"Who's Who\" was only partly reliable, and was intended as disinformation:\n\nAbout half of the names listed in that book are real CIA operatives. The other half are people who were just American diplomats or various officials; and it was prepared with the expectation that naturally many, many Americans operating abroad, diplomats and so on, would be hurt because their names were exposed as CIA officials.\n\n\"Who's Who in CIA\" was publicized through the early 1990s in the publications \"Top Secret\" and \"Geheim.\"\n\nIn retaliation, the CIA assisted journalist John Barron in writing his book \"KGB: The Secret Work of Soviet Secret Agents\", the appendix of which named 1,600 alleged KGB and GRU officers posted abroad under diplomatic cover. Barron admitted to the \"New York Times\", that he received help from the CIA in writing the appendix.\n\nCIA Station Chief Richard Welch was assassinated in Greece in 1975 by the Marxist Revolutionary Organization 17 November (17N). Welch had previously been outed as a CIA operative in \"Who's Who In CIA.\" His assassination eventually led to the Intelligence Identities Protection Act.\n\n"}
{"id": "18340897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18340897", "title": "Women's Antifascist Front of Macedonia", "text": "Women's Antifascist Front of Macedonia\n\nThe Women's Antifascist Front of Macedonia (, transliterated \"Antifašistički front na ženite na Makedonija\" (literally \"Antifascist Front for the Women of Macedonia\") abbreviated AFŽ (АФЖ)) was a World War II-era feminist movement in Macedonia and the predecessor to several present-day feminist organisations in the Republic of Macedonia. It was formed by volunteers in 1942, along with other Women's Antifascist Fronts in Yugoslavia and was one of only four to also become an organised resistance movement.\n\nThe most prominent figure in the movement was Veselinka Malinska, a decorated National Liberation War of Macedonia veteran and ASNOM participant whose father partook in the Ilinden Uprising of 1903. The movement was closely affiliated to the Greek Civil War organisation, the National Liberation Front which had a substantial amount of female partisans.\n\nThe AFŽ's dominant goal was to improve schooling for females and increase their literacy rate, as a majority of illiterates at the time were women. The organisation, much like their allies, the National Liberation Front and the National Liberation Youth Association in Greek Macedonia, were labelled 'bandits' by the Greek government following World War II.\n\nFor more information on the AFŽ in Macedonia, one should look for the works of the Macedonian historian Vera Veskovikj-Vangeli.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4697181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4697181", "title": "Zooko's triangle", "text": "Zooko's triangle\n\nZooko's triangle is a trilemma of three properties that are generally considered desirable for names of participants in a network protocol:\n\nZooko Wilcox-O'Hearn conjectured that no single kind of name can achieve more than two. For example: DNSSec offers a decentralized, human-meaningful naming scheme, but is not secure against compromise by the root; .onion addresses and bitcoin addresses are secure and decentralized but not human-meaningful; and I2P uses name translation services which are secure (as they run locally) and provide human-meaningful names - but fail to provide unique entities when used globally in a decentralised network without authorities.\n\nSeveral systems which exhibit all three properties of Zooko's triangle have now been created, including:\nSeveral platforms implement refutations of Zooko's conjecture, including: Twister (which use the later Aaron Swartz system with a bitcoin-like system), Blockstack (which can run on any blockchain and currently uses Bitcoin), Namecoin (separate blockchain), and Monero OpenAlias.\n\n\n"}
