{"id": "52753037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52753037", "title": "1977 in Croatian television", "text": "1977 in Croatian television\n\nThis is a list of Croatian television related events from 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "19541545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19541545", "title": "1988 Oshakati bomb blast", "text": "1988 Oshakati bomb blast\n\nThe 1988 Oshakati bomb blast was a bombing in Oshakati, Ovamboland, South West Africa (now Oshana Region, Namibia) which killed 27 people and left 70 others injured on 19 February 1988. The target of the bombing was the Barclay's Bank in the town. The perpetrators were never identified or convicted. Both the South African police and South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO), the major independence movement in Namibia, were blamed. At the time of the blast, both SWAPO and the South African authorities blamed each other.\n\n19 February, the day of the blast, was a Wednesday at the end of the month, which is the traditional time when state employees were paid. At approximately noon, a car bomb exploded. Oshakati in the 1980s was a major hub for both the South African military as well as the bantustan Ovamboland government.\n\nIn the years since the bombing, the day has been marked by commemorations by many Namibians, including prominent religious leaders and politicians. They called for national reconciliation in honour of the victims.\n"}
{"id": "34639269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34639269", "title": "2+2 (TV channel)", "text": "2+2 (TV channel)\n\n2+2 (Ukrainian: два плюс два, \"dva plyus dva\") is a national Ukrainian-language TV channel, owned by the 1+1 Media Group. Its program content is mainly geared for a male audience, targeting a core audience is 25–44 years old.\n\nDue to the Crimean crisis 2014, 2+2 broadcasts in Sevastopol ended on 9 March 2014, at 2.30pm East European time.\n\n2+2 offers broadcasts of sporting events, particularly football and boxing matches, foreign and Russian TV series, movies of different genres (action/smash hit movies, sci-fi, adventures, comedies, detectives, horror movies, disaster movies, historical and criminal dramas, and thrillers), cartoons and humorous programs, sports and entertainment shows of in-house production and erotica.\n\nThe TV channel “2+2” was launched in July, 2006, as the channel “Kino”; in summer of 2010, it changed its name and positioning. For six years of its broadcasts, technical penetration of the channel in the cities with the population over 50 thousand people has increased from 18.5% to 89.3% and exceeded 83.7%, Ukraine-wide. The share of the channel’s viewers amounts to 2.7% in prime time (19:00-23:00) and 2.6% per whole day for the audience aged between 18 and 54 years in the cities with the population over 50 thousand people.\n\nIn 2009, 2+2 TV channel, then known under the logo of “Kino,” received the prize from the specialized magazine Mediasat as the Best Movie Channel.\n\nIn 2011, it received the Mediasat award as the Best Regional TV Channel.\n\nIn 2012, 2+2 was awarded by Mediaset as the Best Men’s Channel, and also received the rights to broadcast matches of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League of season 2012-2015. Since the autumn of 2012, live streams of Football Championship of Ukraine, UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League games are available for viewing on the channel’s site.\n\nSince 2014 \"2+2\" TV channel was criticised for broadcasting Russian serials. According to the results of monitoring made by \"Boycott Russian Films\" campaign activists during the period from 8th to 14 September there was demonstrated 8 hours of Russian content per day. According to monitoring made on 27 September the part of Russian content on the channel took 42%.\n\nThe channel 2+2 is the official broadcaster of the Ukrainian Premier League. Since 30 August 2010, there is summary football program \"ProFootball\" () every Sunday. Ihor Tsyganyk is the key football journalist of the channel. Invited experts are Andriy Nesmachnyi (former), Viktor Leonenko (former), Serhiy Kandaurov, Serhiy Nahornyak, Ihor Shukhovtsev, Oleh Venhlinskyi, Maksym Kalynychenko, Eduard Tsykhmeystruk, Oleksandr Ishchenko.\n\n"}
{"id": "34879522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34879522", "title": "61st Anti-aircraft Missiles Regiment (Romania)", "text": "61st Anti-aircraft Missiles Regiment (Romania)\n\nThe 61st Anti-aircraft Missiles Regiment \"Pelindava\" (\"Regimentul 61 Rachete Antiaeriene\") is an air defense regiment of the Romanian Land Forces. Its headquarters are located in Slobozia. The regiment was part of the 6th Anti-aircraft Missile Brigade, which was disbanded in 2006, due to a reorganization process of the Romanian Land Forces. Later on, it was part of the 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missiles Regiment subordinated to the 1st Infantry Division. This unit operated the S-75 \"Volhov\" and the modern MIM-23 Hawk surface-to-air missile systems. \n\nThe main units of the regiment were the 1st Anti-aircraft Missiles Battalion and the 2nd Anti-aircraft Missiles Battalion \"Pelendava\" . When Romania's divisions were reorganized and the 2nd Infantry Division was created from units previously belonging to the 1st and 2nd divisions, the \"Pelendava\" Battalion was raised to a regiment and kept with the 1st Division, while the 1st Anti-aircraft Missiles Battalion was transferred to the 2nd Division.\n\n"}
{"id": "4037909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4037909", "title": "A Fada Oriana", "text": "A Fada Oriana\n\nA Fada Oriana (), Portuguese for \"The Fairy Oriana\", is one of the most emblematic children's book of Portuguese literature, written in 1958 by Sophia de Mello Breyner Andresen.\n\nThe main character is a fairy who was given the responsibility of ensuring the well-being of a forest and its inhabitants, the animals and plants. After a while, Oriana befriends a nefarious fish, and while contemplating her image reflected in the river, Oriana is mesmerized by the fish. Deceived by the words of this fish, Oriana ends up neglecting and abandoning the forest, with serious consequences for its denizens. Deprived of her powers as punishment for this failure, Oriana begins a journey of self-consciousness to repair the evils caused by her omission.\n\nThe book is a subject on Portuguese Language teaching curricula. It has been adapted to children's theatre several times, and has inspired derived works of illustration\nand animation.\n"}
{"id": "1866986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1866986", "title": "Action of 1678", "text": "Action of 1678\n\nThe Action of 1678 took place in 1678 in the Strait of Gibraltar and was a French victory over a Dutch force.\n\n\"Courtesan\" 70 (flag)<br>\n\"Invincible\" 68 - Damaged<br>\n\"?\" 68<br>\n\"?\" 68<br>\n\"?\" 68<br>\n\"?\" 40\n\n11 ships of the line\n"}
{"id": "315644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315644", "title": "Akka (spirit)", "text": "Akka (spirit)\n\nAkka is a female spirit in Sami shamanism, and Finnish and Estonian mythology. Its worship was common and took the forms of sacrifice, prayer and various other rituals. Some Sámi believed it lived under their tents. As with other gods, its name appears within some geographical names, leaving a legacy of Sami presence.\n\n\nIn Finnish mythology, Akka is the wife of Ukko and is the goddess of fertility. As they make love, thunder rolls. She can be seen as the female side of nature, \"Maaemonen\" \"mother earth\", whom Ukko fertilizes.\n\nIn Estonian mythology, she is known as Maan-Emo.\n"}
{"id": "55788317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55788317", "title": "Antonio González Pacheco", "text": "Antonio González Pacheco\n\nAntonio González Pacheco, (born 10 October 1946 ), known also as 'Billy the Kid' was a Madrid police inspector during the Franco era who was charged with 13 counts of torture and sought for extradition by an Argentine judge in 2014. The request for extradition was refused by the Spanish High Court on the basis that the statute of limitations had run out on the accusation against him.\n\n"}
{"id": "12813503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12813503", "title": "Arbeiter-Zeitung (Vienna)", "text": "Arbeiter-Zeitung (Vienna)\n\nArbeiter Zeitung (meaning “Workers’ Newspaper” in English) was the daily of the Social Democrat Party and published in Austria. It existed between 1889 and 1991.\n\n\"Arbeiter Zeitung\" was started on 12 July 1889 by the Socialist Party and Victor Adler. The paper was banned in 1934 after the 13 February issue, but reappeared on 4 August 1945 as the main organ of the Austrian Social Democrat Party, continuing until 1989, providing general coverage of Austrian and international news. From 1985 through 1989 it was published under the title Neue AZ; from 1989 to 1991 it was published as AZ. From 1989 until 1991 it was published as an independent newspaper, and ceased publication in 1991.\n\nIn the 1920s the circulation of the daily reached 100,000 copies. The paper reduced its circulation by one quarter from 1960 to 1990.\n\nAmong its noted contributors and editors in the pre-war period was its cultural editor David Josef Bach. Ernst Fischer served as the editor of the paper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31989037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31989037", "title": "Asokwa Interchange", "text": "Asokwa Interchange\n\nThe Asokwa Interchange is an interchange under construction in Kumasi, Ghana. \n"}
{"id": "8308126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8308126", "title": "Banco Interatlântico", "text": "Banco Interatlântico\n\nBanco Interatlântico is a Cape Verdean commercial bank. Its headquarter is at Avenida Cidade de Lisboa in Praia. The bank was established in July 1999 as a subsidiary of the Portuguese Caixa Geral de Depósitos. The CGD Group now owns 70% of Banco Interatlântico.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1242009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242009", "title": "Basic command unit", "text": "Basic command unit\n\nA Basic Command Unit (BCU) is the largest unit into which territorial British Police forces are divided This may actually be called a BCU or may have another designation, such as \"Division\", \"Area\", \"Local Policing Unit\" (LPU), or \"Local Policing Team\" (LPT). There are 228 BCUs (or equivalent units) in England and Wales.\n\nMost forces are divided into at least three BCUs and some have many more. Most BCUs are further subdivided into smaller units. The BCU is usually commanded by a Chief Superintendent.\n\nThe Metropolitan Police use the term Borough Operational Command Unit (BOCU) for regional units (which are based on the 32 London boroughs). The term Operational Command Unit (OCU) is used for specialised units, for example the Aviation Security OCU.\n\nHowever, since March 2018 the Metropolitan Police now has 3 BCU's \"Basic Command Units\". \n1) Central North - the joining of Islington and Camden Boroughs.\n2) East Area - the joining of Barking and Dagenham, Havering and Redbridge Boroughs.\n3) Central East - the joining of Tower Hamlets and Hackney boroughs.\n\nWest Midlands Police is split into 10 Local Policing Units (LPUs). Each LPU is in turn organized into four \"Core Policing Teams\" (CPTs) that manage its different core functions: Investigation, Neighbourhood, Response and Community Action and Priority Team (CAPT).\n\nWarwickshire Police has abolished BCUs, the first British territorial police force to do so. The force is now divided directly into five Districts, each headed by a Chief Inspector. These were formerly grouped into two Areas (BCUs), North and South, each headed by a Chief Superintendent.\n"}
{"id": "1995855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1995855", "title": "Berbere", "text": "Berbere\n\nBerbere ( \"bärbäre\", \"bärbärä\") is a spice mixture whose constituent elements usually include chili peppers, garlic, ginger, basil, \"korarima\", rue, ajwain or radhuni, nigella, and fenugreek. It is a key ingredient in the cuisines of Ethiopia and Eritrea.\n\nBerbere sometimes encompasses herbs and spices that are less well known internationally. The latter include both cultivated plants and those that grow wild in Ethiopia, such as korarima (\"Aframomum corrorima\") and long pepper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15601259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15601259", "title": "Bertrange communal council", "text": "Bertrange communal council\n\nBertrange communal council () is the local council for the commune of Bertrange, in south-western Luxembourg.\n\nIt consists of eleven members, elected every six years by proportional representation. The last elections were held on 9 October 2005, and resulted in a victory for the Democratic Party (DP). In the \"collège échevinal\", the DP rules outright, under the leadership of mayor Paul Geimer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46287340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46287340", "title": "Bogobe jwa logala", "text": "Bogobe jwa logala\n\nBogobe jwa logala is sorghum porridge cooked in boiling milk. It is a breakfast dish. One can add sugar or not. However, if still hot sugar can make it runny.\n"}
{"id": "16132656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16132656", "title": "Cambodian Center for Study and Development in Agriculture", "text": "Cambodian Center for Study and Development in Agriculture\n\nCEDAC (Centre d'Etude et de Developpement Agricole Cambodgien/Cambodian Center for Study and Development in Agriculture) is an agricultural and rural development organization set up in August 1997 to work for the development of ecologically based family agriculture, and to promote a cooperative and mutual assistance movement in the rural areas of Cambodia. Initial support came from the French non-governmental organization (NGO), GRET (Groupe de Recherches et d'Echanges Technologiques).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55605578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55605578", "title": "Catalan Republic (1931)", "text": "Catalan Republic (1931)\n\nThe Catalan Republic (, ) was a state proclaimed in 1931 by Francesc Macià as the \"Catalan Republic within the Iberian Federation\". It existed between 14 and 17 April 1931.\n\nBy the Pact of San Sebastián (August 17, 1930), the Spanish republican parties agree to prepare a change of regime in case of victories in the following elections. In this project, there was a provision for the political autonomy of Catalonia, within the Republic. On 14 April 1931, after the municipal elections which gave in Catalonia the large majority to a party founded three weeks before of the elections by the union of the independentist Estat Català and the Catalan Republican Party, the Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC), its leader Francesc Macià, few hours before the proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic in Madrid, from the balcony of the Palace of the Generalitat (then the seat of the Provincial Deputation of Barcelona), proclaimed the \"Catalan Republic, expecting that the other peoples of Spain constitute themselves as republics, in order to establish the Iberian Confederation\". Macià was appointed as acting president.\n\nImmediately, Macià began exercising power and dismissed General Despujols, chief of the Spanish Army in Barcelona, appointing General López Ochoa, loyal to the new republican government in his place, while his companion of party, Lluís Companys, was designated civil governor of Barcelona. He also appointed the ministers of the Catalan government, dominated by the Republican Left of Catalonia, and included a member of the Radical Republican Party and another from the UGT trade union, but none from the conservative Regionalist League (on the streets many citizens said against the leader of the League \"Long live Macià and death to Cambó!\"). The government also had representatives from the Socialist Union of Catalonia and Acció Catalana, and Macià even offered a ministry to the anarchist CNT, but the anarcho-syndicalist organization finally refused to participate, claiming its traditional apoliticism.\n\nThe provisional government of the Catalan Republic was formed by:\n\nThree days later, the government of the new Spanish Republic, worried about this proclamation, sent three ministers (Fernando de los Ríos, Lluís Nicolau d'Olwer and Marcel·lí Domingo) to Barcelona in order to negotiate with Macià and the Catalan government. Macià reached an agreement with the ministers, in which the Catalan Republic was renamed Generalitat of Catalonia (Catalan: Generalitat de Catalunya), becoming an autonomous government within the Spanish Republic, that would be granted an Statute of Autonomy after the elections to Spanish Cortes. Francesc Macià would be the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia (as acting until November 1932, when it was elected by the Parliament of Catalonia) until his death in December 1933.\n\n"}
{"id": "49826721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49826721", "title": "Cma Sampo", "text": "Cma Sampo\n\nCma Sampo Spa is a join venture company specialised in the development of agricultural machinery. It was created in 2010 after an agreement between the Algerian brand Cma and the Finnish Group Sampo-rRsenlew based in Sidi Bel Abbès, owned by the company Construction Agricultural Equipment (CMA) and the Algerian firm for agricultural equipment manufacturing Pmat (62%) and Finnish partners (38%).\n\nThe factory is producing several machines.\n\n"}
{"id": "4424900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4424900", "title": "Comores Air Services", "text": "Comores Air Services\n\nComores Air Services was a small airline which served to transport people and cargo between the three islands of the Comoros, as well as the nearby island of Mayotte.\n\nAs of August 2006 the Comores Air Services fleet included:\n\n\nAll but 1(D6-CAM /851336) L-410 are on the List of air carriers banned in the EU (as of 14 November 2008).\n\n"}
{"id": "52740836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52740836", "title": "Constitution (Amendment No. 24) Act 1936", "text": "Constitution (Amendment No. 24) Act 1936\n\nThe Constitution (Amendment No. 24) Act, 1936 (Act no. 18 of 1936; previously Bill no. 20 of 1934) was an act of the Oireachtas (parliament) of the Irish Free State which abolished Seanad Éireann, the upper house of the Oireachtas, which thenceforth was unicameral, with Dáil Éireann as the sole house. The bill was introduced in 1934 by the Fianna Fáil government of Éamon de Valera, which was frustrated by the Seanad's repeated use of its power to delay (though not veto) legislation. In particular, Fianna Fáil favoured eliminating symbols of monarchy from the Free State, which the Seanad, with more Southern Unionist members, feared would antagonise the United Kingdom. \n\nThe Seanad opposed the bill, declining in June 1934 to give it a second reading. The Dáil resubmitted the bill in December 1935 and the Seanad passed a motion declining to pass it unless a replacement second chamber was created. In May 1936, the Dáil overrode the Seanad's refusal.\n\nThe act deleted 16 articles of the 1922 Constitution and made consequential amendments to numerous others. It also increased from the threshold for passing a resolution of impeachment (of judges or the Comptroller and Auditor General) from a simple majority to a four-sevenths supermajority, since only one house, rather than two, would thenceforth be voting on such a resolution. \n\nWhen a new Seanad was created by the 1937 Constitution it was in a weakened form with measures to ensure a likely government majority (such as allowing 11 senators to be nominated by the Taoiseach of the day). A 2013 attempt to abolish the Seanad was rejected by referendum. The 1936 act was formally repealed as spent by the Statute Law Revision Act 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "30750566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30750566", "title": "Cycling in Malta", "text": "Cycling in Malta\n\nThe popularity of cycling in Malta as a sport, a means of commuting, and as a way of exploring the island of Malta is on the increase. In recent years, the Maltese authorities, most notably the Malta Transport Authority, have worked hard to make this activity more accessible and safer . Thanks also to some pioneering enterprises in this area, cycling is becoming a viable alternative to private cars for travel in the island.\n\nCycling is firmly ingrained in Maltese cultural heritage . As you would expect in an island whose official religion is Roman Catholic and where an estimated 95 percent profess to belong to this religion, cycling also features prominently in religious celebrations.\n\nMost notably, the village feast of Zabbar, which is held annually on the first Sunday after the 8 September, features a motorcycle and bicycle pilgrimage each starting from Mosta and Rabat respectively. This is because the Zabbar church is dedicated to “Our Lady of Grace” (Madonna tal-Grazzja), who is also the patron of cyclists.\n\nThe island's small size – Malta's land area is just over – makes its easily accessible by bike.\n\nIndeed, an increasing number of areas in the capital, Valletta, and elsewhere are being pedestrianized, making cycling the ideal means of visiting them. Despite its size, however, Malta’s topography is quite hilly, and cycling may be quite challenging in some areas.\n\nIn 2006, the Malta Transport Authority introduced bicycle lanes to promote and encourage more people to use bicycles as a greener alternative to private car use. although cyclists do not normally use the lanes due to unsafe surfaces, mainly attributed to poor planning. Although initially motorists did not always respect these lanes, the situation has improved significantly. Cyclists are also allowed to use bus lanes. However, cycling is not allowed in tunnels. The few cycle lanes tend to end and start abruptly. They rarely follow regular commuting routes and do not seem to be maintained very regularly. Sliema local council allows slow cycling along its promenade that does not hinder pedestrians, but this does not extend into Bisazza Street, a main shopping precinct, at the end of the promenade. However, despite citing the support of sustainable and non-polluting modes of transport, there is no cohesive and specific national programme aimed at encouraging cycling.\n\nConditions for cyclists on the road are improving although cyclists should remain wary as to which routes to use and which to avoid. Cycling on main roads may at times be dangerous. Due to Malta's party scene and poor drunk driving record, early morning rides during weekends are particularly dangerous. Children on bikes and users of motorized bicycles are legally required to wear cycling helmets.\n\nRoad conditions themselves are improving although potholes and lack of proper surfacing, especially in smaller towns, remain an issue.\n\nThe Malta Transport Authority has installed a number of bicycle parking bays in various spots around the island, particularly, in tourist areas.\n\nWhile bicycle theft in Malta is not high, the usual precautions of locking the bike should be taken.\n\nWith no trains and no underground, buses are the main means of public transport in Malta. The Maltese Government has privatized the public bus system. It is currently not possible to transport bicycles on public buses. However, it is possible to schedule the transportation of bicycles to any locations in Malta.\n"}
{"id": "18353557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18353557", "title": "Days and Hours", "text": "Days and Hours\n\nDays and Hours (Bosnian version title: \"Kod amidže Idriza\") is a 2004 Bosnian film directed by Pjer Žalica. It was Bosnia and Herzegovina's submission to the 77th Academy Awards for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film but it was not nominated.\n\nIt was released 20 August 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "41003457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41003457", "title": "Economic history of World War I", "text": "Economic history of World War I\n\nThe economic history of World War I covers the methods used by the First World War (1914–1918), as well as related postwar issues such as war debts and reparations. It also covers the economic mobilization of labor, industry and agriculture. It deals with economic warfare such as the blockade of Germany, and with some issues closely related to the economy, such as military issues of transportation. For a broader perspective see Home front during World War I.\n\nAll of the powers in 1914 expected a short war; none had made any economic preparations for a long war, such as stockpiling food or critical raw materials. The longer the war went on, the more the advantages went to the Allies, with their larger, deeper, more versatile economies and better access to global supplies. As Broadberry and Harrison conclude, once stalemate set in late in 1914:\n\nThe Allies had much more potential wealth they could spend on the war. One estimate (using 1913 US dollars) is that the Allies spent $147 billion on the war and the Central Powers only $61 billion. Among the Allies, Britain and its Empire spent $47 billion and the U.S. $27 billion (America joined after the war started) while among the Central Powers, Germany spent $45 billion.\n\nTotal war demanded total mobilization of all the nation's resources for a common goal. Manpower had to be channeled into the front lines (all the powers except the United States and Britain had large trained reserves designed just for that). Behind the lines labor power had to be redirected away from less necessary activities that were luxuries during a total war. In particular, vast munitions industries had to be built up to provide shells, guns, warships, uniforms, airplanes, and a hundred other weapons both old and new. Agriculture had to provide food for both civilians and for soldiers (some of whom had been farmers and needed to be replaced by women, children and the elderly who now did the work without animal assistance) and for horses to move supplies. Transportation in general was a challenge, especially when Britain and Germany each tried to intercept merchant ships headed for the enemy. Finance was a special challenge. Germany financed the Central Powers. Britain financed the Allies until 1916, when it ran out of money and had to borrow from the United States. The U.S. took over the financing of the Allies in 1917 with loans that it insisted be repaid after the war. The victorious Allies looked to defeated Germany in 1919 to pay reparations that would cover some of their costs. Above all, it was essential to conduct the mobilization in such a way that the short term confidence of the people was maintained, the long-term power of the political establishment was upheld, and the long-term economic health of the nation was preserved.\n\nGross domestic product (GDP) increased for three Allies (Britain, Italy, and U.S.), but decreased in France and Russia, in neutral Netherlands, and in the three main Central Powers. The shrinkage in GDP in Austria, Russia, France, and the Ottoman Empire reached 30 to 40%. In Austria, for example, most pigs were slaughtered, so at war's end there was no meat.\n\nThe Western Front quickly stabilized, with almost no movement of more than a few hundred yards. The greatest single expenditure on both sides was for artillery shells, the chief weapon in the war. Since the front was highly stable, both sides built elaborate railway networks that brought supplies within a mile or two of the front lines, with horse-drawn wagons used for the final deliveries. In the ten-month battle at Verdun, the French and Germans fired some 10 million shells in all, weighing 1.4 million tons of steel.\n\nThe German counter-blockade with U-Boats was defeated by the convoy system and massive American ship building. Britain paid the war costs of most of its Allies until it ran out of money, then the US took over, funding those Allies and Britain as well.\n\nThe economy (in terms of GDP) grew about 7% from 1914 to 1918 despite the absence of so many men in the services; by contrast the German economy shrank 27%. The War saw a decline of civilian consumption, with a major reallocation to munitions. The government share of GDP soared from 8% in 1913 to 38% in 1918 (compared to 50% in 1943).\n\nDespite fears in 1916 that munitions production was lagging, the output was more than adequate. The annual output of artillery grew from 91 guns in 1914 to 8039 in 1918. Warplanes soared from 200 in 1914 to 3200 in 1918, while the production of machine guns went from 300 to 121,000.\n\nIn 1915, the Anglo-French Financial Commission agreed a $500 million loan from private American banks. By 1916, Britain was funding most of the Empire's war expenditures, all of Italy's and two thirds of the war costs of France and Russia, plus smaller nations as well. The gold reserves, overseas investments and private credit then ran out forcing Britain to borrow $4 billion from the U.S. Treasury in 1917–18. Shipments of American raw materials and food allowed Britain to feed itself and its army while maintaining her productivity. The financing was generally successful, as the City's strong financial position minimized the damaging effects of inflation, as opposed to much worse conditions in Germany. Overall consumer consumption declined 18% from 1914 to 1919.\n\nTrade unions were encouraged as membership grew from 4.1 million in 1914 to 6.5 million in 1918, peaking at 8.3 million in 1920 before relapsing to 5.4 million in 1923. Women were available and many entered munitions factories and took other home front jobs vacated by men.\n\nEnergy was a critical factor for the British war effort. Most of the energy supplies came from coal mines in Britain, where the issue was labour supply. Critical however was the flow of oil for ships, lorries and industrial use. There were no oil wells in Britain so everything was imported. The U.S. pumped two-thirds of the world's oil. In 1917, total British consumption was 827 million barrels, of which 85 percent was supplied by the United States, and 6 percent by Mexico. The great issue in 1917 was how many tankers would survive the German u-boats. Convoys and the construction of new tankers solved the German threat, while tight government controls guaranteed that all essential needs were covered. An Inter-Allied Petroleum Conference allocated American supplies to Britain, France and Italy.\n\nAn oil crisis occurred in Britain due to the 1917 German submarine campaign. Standard Oil of NJ, for example, lost 6 tankers (including the brand new John D. Archbold) between May and September. The only solution to the crisis lay with increased oil shipment from America. The Allies formed the Inter-Allied Petroleum Conference with USA, Britain, France, and Italy as the members. Standard and Royal Dutch/Shell ran it and made it work. The introduction of convoys as an antidote to the German U-boats and the joint management system by Standard Oil and Royal Dutch/Shell helped to solve the Allies' supply problems. The close working relationship that evolved was in marked contrast to the feud between the government and Standard Oil years earlier. In 1917 and 1918, there was increased domestic demand for oil partly due to the cold winter that created a shortage of coal. Inventories and imported oil from Mexico were used to close the gap. In January 1918, the U.S. Fuel Administrator ordered industrial plants east of Mississippi to close for a week to free up oil for Europe.\n\nFuel oil for the Royal Navy was the highest priority. In 1917, the Royal Navy consumed 12,500 tons a month, but had a supply of 30,000 tons a month from the Anglo-Persian Oil Company, using their oil wells in Persia.\n\nClydeside shipyards before 1914 had been the busiest in the world, turning out more than a third of the entire British output. They expanded by a third during the war, primarily to produce transports of the sort that German U-boats were busy sinking. Confident of postwar expansion, the companies borrowed heavily to expand their facilities. But after the war, employment tumbled as the yards proved too big, too expensive, and too inefficient; in any case world demand was down. The most skilled craftsmen were especially hard hit, because there were few alternative uses for their specialized skills.\n\nIreland was on the verge of civil war in 1914 after Parliament voted a home rule law that was intensely opposed by the Protestants, especially those in Ulster. When the war broke out the law was suspended and Protestants gave very strong support for the war in terms of military service and industrial output.\n\nOccurring during Ireland's Revolutionary period, the Irish Catholic experience of the war was complex and its memory of it divisive. At the outbreak of the war, most Irish people, regardless of political affiliation, supported the war in much the same way as their British counterparts, and both nationalist and unionist leaders initially backed the British war effort. Their followers, both Catholic and Protestant, served extensively in the British forces, many in three specially raised divisions. Over 200,000 Irishmen fought in the war, in several theatres with 30,000 deaths. In 1916, Catholic supporters of Irish independence from the United Kingdom took the opportunity of the ongoing war to proclaim an Irish Republic and to defend it in an armed rebellion against British rule in Dublin. The rebellion was poorly planned and quickly suppressed. The British executed most of the prisoners which caused Catholic opinion to surge in favour of independence. Britain's intention to impose conscription in Ireland in 1918 provoked widespread resistance and as a result remained unimplemented.\n\nThe Commonwealth nations and India all played major roles. The Asian and African colonies provided large numbers of civilian workers, as well as some soldiers. The Indian Army during World War I contributed a large number of divisions and independent brigades to the European, Mediterranean and the Middle East theatres of war. Over one million Indian troops served overseas, of whom 62,000 died and another 67,000 were wounded.\n\nCanada was prosperous during the war but ethnic conflict escalated almost out of control. In terms of long-run economic trends, the war hardly affected the direction or the speed of change. The trajectory of the main economic factors, the business and financial system, and the technology continued on their way. Women temporarily took war jobs, and at the end of the war there was a great deal of unrest among union members and farmers for a few years.\n\nBilly Hughes, prime minister from October 1915, expanded the government's role in the economy, while dealing with intense debates over the issue of conscription. Historian Gerhard Fisher argues that the Hughes government aggressively promoted economic, industrial, and social modernization. However, Fischer also says it was done by means of exclusion and repression. He says the war turned a peaceful nation into \"one that was violent, aggressive, angst- and conflict-ridden, torn apart by invisible front lines of sectarian division, ethnic conflict and socio-economic and political upheaval.\"\n\nIn 1914 the Australian economy was small but the population of five million was very nearly the most prosperous in the world per capita. The nation depended on the export of wool, mutton, wheat and minerals. London provided assurances that it would underwrite the war risk insurance for shipping in order to allow trade amongst the Commonwealth to continue in the face of the German u-boat threat. London imposed controls so that no exports would wind up in German hands. The British government protected prices by buying Australian products even though the shortage of shipping meant that there was no chance that they would ever receive them. On the whole Australian commerce expanded. In terms of value, Australian exports rose almost 45 per cent, while the number of Australians employed in the manufacturing industry increased over 11 per cent. Iron mining and steel manufacture grew enormously. Inflation became a factor as consumer prices went up, while the cost of exports was deliberately kept lower than market value in an effort to prevent further inflationary pressures worldwide. As a result, the cost of living for many average Australians was increased.\n\nThe trade union movement, already powerful grew rapidly, though the movement split on the political question of conscription. Despite the considerable rises in the costs of many basic items, the government sought to stabilize wages, much to the anger of unionists. the average weekly wage during the war was increased by between 8–12 per cent, it was not enough to keep up with inflation and as a result there was considerable discontent amongst workers, to the extent that industrial action followed. Not all of these disputes were due to economic factors, and indeed in some part they were the result of violent opposition to the issue of conscription, which many trade unionists were opposed to. Nevertheless, the result was very disruptive and it has been estimated that between 1914 and 1918 there were 1,945 industrial disputes, resulting in 8,533,061 working days lost and £4,785,607 in lost wages.\n\nThe cost of the war was £377 million, of which 70% was borrowed and the rest came from taxes. Overall, the war had a significantly negative impact on the Australia economy. Real aggregate Gross Domestic Product (GDP) declined by 9.5 percent over the period 1914 to 1920, while the mobilization of personnel resulted in a 6 percent decline in civilian employment. Meanwhile, although population growth continued during the war years, it was only half that of the prewar rate. Per capita incomes also declined sharply, failing by 16 percent.\n\nSouth Africa's main economic role was in the supply of two-thirds of the gold production in the British Empire (most of the remainder came from Australia). When the war began Bank of England officials worked with the government of South Africa to block any gold shipments to Germany, and force the mine owners to sell only to the Treasury, at prices set by the Treasury. This facilitated purchases of munitions and food in the U.S, and other neutrals. By 1919 London lost control to the mining companies (which were now backed by the South African government). They wanted the higher prices and sales to New York that a free market would provide.\n\nThe Germans invaded Belgium at the start of the war and Belgium remained occupied for the entire war. There was both large-scale spontaneous militant and passive resistance. Over a 1.4 million refugees fled to France or to neutral Netherlands. Over half the German regiments in Belgium were involved in major incidents. After the atrocities by the German army in the first few weeks of the war, German civil servants took control and were generally correct, albeit strict and severe. Belgium was heavily industrialized; while farms operated and small shops stayed open some large establishments shut down or drastically reduced their output. The faculty closed the universities; many publishers shut down their newspapers. Most Belgians \"turned the four war years into a long and extremely dull vacation,\" according to Kossmann. In 1916 Germany deported 120,000 men to work in Germany; this led to protests from neutral countries and they were returned. Germany then stripped some factories of useful machinery, and used the rest as scrap iron for its steel mills.\n\nAt the start of war, silver 5 franc coins were collected and melted down by the National Bank to augment its silver reserves. They were exchangeable for paper banknotes, and later zinc coins, although many demonetized silver coins were hoarded. With the German invasion, the National Bank's reserves were transferred to Antwerp and eventually to England where they were deposited at the Bank of England. Throughout the German occupation there was a shortage of official coins and banknotes in circulation, and so around 600 \"communes\", local governments and companies issued their own unofficial \"Necessity Money\" to enable the continued functioning of the local economies. The Belgian franc was fixed at an exchange rate of 1 franc to 1.25 German mark, which was also introduced as legal tender.\n\nNeutral countries led by the United States set up the Commission for Relief in Belgium, headed by American engineer Herbert Hoover. It shipped in large quantities of food and medical supplies, which it tried to reserve for civilians and keep out of the hands of the Germans. Many businesses collaborated with the Germans. The government set up judicial proceedings to punish the collaborators.\n\nRubber had long been the main export of the Belgian Congo and production levels held up during the war but its importance fell from 77% of exports (by value) to only 15%. New resources were opened, especially copper mining in Katanga Province. The Union Minière du Haut Katanga company dominated the copper industry, exporting its product along a direct rail line to the sea at Beira. The war caused a heavy demand for copper, and production soared from 997 tons in 1911 to 27,000 tons in 1917, then fell off to 19,000 tons in 1920. Smelters operate at Elisabethville. Before the war the copper was sold to Germany and, in order to prevent loss of capacity, the British purchased all the Congo's wartime output with the revenues going to the Belgian government in exile. Diamond and gold mining also expanded during the war. The Anglo-Dutch firm Lever Bros. greatly expanded the palm oil business during the war and there was an increased output of cocoa, rice and cotton. New rail and steamship lines opened to handle the expanded export traffic.\n\nThe German invasion captured 40% of France's heavy industry in 1914, especially in steel and coal. French GDP in 1918 was 24% smaller than in 1913; since a third went into the war effort, the civilian standard of living fell by half. But thousands of little factories opened up across France, hiring women, youth, elderly, disabled veterans, and behind the lines soldiers. Algerian and Vietnamese laborers were brought in. Plants produced 200,000 75mm shells a day. The US provided much food, steel, coal and machine tools, and $3.6 billion in loans to finance it all; the British loaned another $3 billion.\n\nConsiderable relief came with the influx of American food, money and raw materials in 1917. The economy was supported after 1917 by American government loans which were used to purchase foods and manufactured goods. The arrival of over a million American soldiers in 1918 brought heavy spending for food and construction materials. \n\nFrance's diverse regions suffered in different ways. While the occupied area in 1913 contained only 14% of France's industrial workers, it produced 58% of the steel, and 40% of the coal. War contracts made some firms prosperous but on the whole did not compensate for the loss of foreign markets. There was a permanent loss of population caused by battle deaths and emigration.\n\nThe economy of Algeria was severely disrupted. Internal lines of communication and transportation were disrupted, and shipments of the main export, cheap wine, had to be cut back. Crime soared as French forces were transferred to the Western Front, and there was rioting in the province of Batna. Shortages mounted, inflation soared, banks cut off credit, and the provincial government was ineffective.\n\nThe French government floated four war bond issues on the London market and raised 55 million pounds. These bonds were denominated in francs instead of pounds or gold, and were not guaranteed against exchange rate fluctuations. After the war the franc lost value and British bondholders tried, and failed, to get restitution.\n\nJ.P. Morgan & Co. of New York was the major American financier for the Allies, and worked closely with French bankers. However its dealings became strained because of growing misunderstandings between the Wall Street bankers and French bankers and diplomats.\n\nFrench colonies supplied workers for munitions factories and other jobs in France. A famous example was Ho Chi Minh who worked in Paris, and was highly active in organizing fellow Vietnamese, and even demanding a voice for them at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919. The French army enlisted hundreds of thousands of colonials. From Africa came 212,000 soldiers, of whom 160,000 fought on the Western front. \n\nThe rapid unplanned buildup of French military operations in Africa disrupted normal trade relations and all the colonies, especially disrupting food supplies for the cities and distorting the local labor markets. French administrators, focused on supporting the armies on the Western Front, disregarded or suppressed protest movements.\n\nThe Russian economy was far too backward to sustain a major war, and conditions deteriorated rapidly, despite financial aid from Britain. By late 1915 there was a severe shortage of artillery shells. The very large but poorly equipped Russian army fought tenaciously and desperately despite its poor organisation and lack of munitions. Casualties were enormous. By 1915, many soldiers were sent to the front unarmed, and told to pick up whatever weapons they could from the battlefield.\n\nThe onset of World War I exposed the poor administrative skills of the czarist government under Nicholas II. A show of national unity had accompanied Russia's entrance into the war, with defense of the Slavic Serbs the main battle cry. In the summer of 1914, the Duma and the zemstva expressed full support for the government's war effort. The initial conscription was well organized and peaceful, and the early phase of Russia's military buildup showed that the empire had learned lessons from the Russo-Japanese War. But military reversals and the government's incompetence soon soured much of the population. Enemy control of the Baltic Sea and the Black Sea severed Russia from most of its foreign supplies and markets. \n\nRussia had not prepared for a major war and Reacted very slowly as problems mounted in 1914-16. Inflation became a serious problem. Because of inadequate material support for military operations, the War Industry Committees were formed to ensure that necessary supplies reached the front. But army officers quarreled with civilian leaders, seized administrative control of front areas, and refused to cooperate with the committee. The central government distrusted the independent war support activities that were organized by zemstva and cities. The Duma quarreled with the war bureaucracy of the government, and center and center-left deputies eventually formed the Progressive Bloc to create a genuinely constitutional government. While the central government was hampered by court intrigue, the strain of the war began to cause popular unrest. Food shortages increasingly impacted urban areas, caused by military purchases, transportation bottlenecks, financial confusion, and administrative mismanagement. By 1915 high food prices and fuel shortages caused strikes in some cities. Food riots became more common and more violent, and ready the angry populace for withering political attacks on the czarist regime. Workers, who had won the right to representation in sections of the War Industries Committee, used those sections to mobilize political opposition. The countryside also was becoming restive. Soldiers were increasingly insubordinate, particularly the newly recruited peasants who faced the prospect of being used as cannon fodder in the inept conduct of the war.\n\nThe bad situation continued to deteriorate. Increasing conflict between the tsar and the Duma destroyed popular and elite support for the old regime. In early 1917, deteriorating rail transport caused acute food and fuel shortages, which resulted in escalating riots and strikes. Authorities summoned troops to quell the disorders in Petrograd (as St. Petersburg had been called since September 1914, to Russianize the Germanic name). In 1905 troops had fired on demonstrators and saved the monarchy, but in 1917 the troops turned their guns over to the angry crowds. Public support for the tsarist regime simply evaporated in 1917, ending three centuries of Romanov rule.\n\nItaly joined the Allies in 1915, but was poorly prepared for war. Loans from Britain paid for nearly all its war expenses. The Italian army of 875,000 men was poorly led and lacked heavy artillery and machine guns. The industrial base was too small to provide adequate amounts of modern equipment, and the old-fashioned rural base did not produce much of a food surplus.\n\nBefore the war the government had ignored labor issues, but now it had to intervene to mobilize war production. With the main working-class Socialist party reluctant to support the war effort, strikes were frequent and cooperation was minimal, especially in the Socialist strongholds of Piedmont and Lombardy. The government imposed high wage scales, as well as collective bargaining and insurance schemes. Many large firms expanded dramatically. The workforce at the Ansaldo munitions company grew from 6,000 to 110,000 as it manufactured 10,900 artillery pieces, 3,800 warplanes, 95 warships and 10 million artillery shells. At Fiat the workforce grew from 4,000 to 40,000. Inflation doubled the cost of living. Industrial wages kept pace but not wages for farm workers. Discontent was high in rural areas since so many men were taken for service, industrial jobs were unavailable, wages grew slowly and inflation was just as bad.\n\nIn terms of munitions production, the 15 months after April 1917 involved an amazing parade of mistakes, misguided enthusiasm, and confusion. Americans were willing enough, but they did not know their proper role. Wilson was unable to figure out what to do when, or even to decide who was in charge. Typical of the confusion was the coal shortage that hit in December 1917. Because coal was by far the most major source of energy and heat, a grave crisis ensued. There was in fact plenty of coal being mined, but 44,000 loaded freight and coal cars were tied up in horrendous traffic jams in the rail yards of the East Coast. Two hundred ships were waiting in New York harbor for cargo that was delayed by the mess. The solution included nationalizing the coal mines and the railroads for the duration, shutting down factories one day a week to save fuel, and enforcing a strict system of priorities. Only in March 1918 did Wilson finally take control of the crisis\n\nThe war saw many women gaining access to and taking on jobs traditionally assigned to men. Many worked on the assembly lines of factories, producing trucks and munitions. The morale of the women remained high, as millions join the Red Cross as volunteers to help soldiers and their families. With rare exceptions, the women did not protest the draft. For the first time, department stores employed African American women as elevator operators and cafeteria waitresses.\n\nSamuel Gompers, head of the AFL, and nearly all labor unions were strong supporters of the war effort. They minimized strikes as wages soared and full employment was reached. The AFL unions strongly encouraged their young men to enlist in the military, and fiercely opposed efforts to reduce recruiting and slow war production by the anti-war labor union called the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW) and also left-wing Socialists. President Wilson appointed Gompers to the powerful Council of National Defense, where he set up the War Committee on Labor. The AFL membership soared to 2.4 million in 1917. In 1919, the Union tried to make their gains permanent and called a series of major strikes in meat, steel and other industries. The strikes, all of which failed, forced unions back to their position around 1910.\n\nWhile Germany rapidly mobilized its soldiers, it had to improvise the mobilization of the civilian economy for the war effort. It was severely handicapped by the British blockade that cut off food supplies, machinery and raw materials.\n\nWalter Rathenau played the key role in convincing the War Ministry to set up the War Raw Materials Department (Kriegsrohstoffabteilung—\"KRA\"); he was in charge of it from August 1914 to March 1915 and established the basic policies and procedures. His senior staff were on loan from industry. KRA focused on raw materials threatened by the British blockade, as well as supplies from occupied Belgium and France. It set prices and regulated the distribution to vital war industries. It began the development of ersatz raw materials. KRA suffered many inefficiencies caused by the complexity and selfishness KRA encountered from commerce, industry, and the government. Some two dozen additional agencies were created dealing with specific products; the agencies could confiscate supplies and redirect them to the munitions factories. Cartels were created and small firms merged into larger ones for greater efficiency and ease of central control.\n\nThe military took an increasingly dominant role in setting economic priorities and in direct control of vital industries. It was usually inefficient, but it performed very well in aircraft. The army set prices and wages, gave out draft exemptions, guaranteed the supply of credit and raw materials, limited patent rights, and supervised management–labor relationships. The industry expanded very rapidly with high quality products and many innovations, and paid wages well above the norm for skilled workers.\n\nTotal spending by the national government reached 170 billion marks during the war, of which taxes covered only 8%, and the rest was borrowed from German banks and private citizens. Eight national war loans reached out to the entire population and raised 100 million marks. It proved almost impossible to borrow money from outside. The national debt rose from only 5 billion marks in 1914 to 156 billion in 1918. These bonds became worthless in 1923 because of hyperinflation.\n\nAs the war went on conditions deteriorated rapidly on the home front, with severe food shortages reported in all urban areas by 1915. Causes involved the transfer of many farmers and food workers into the military, an overburdened railroad system, shortages of coal, and the British blockade that cut off imports from abroad. The winter of 1916–1917 was known as the \"turnip winter\", because that vegetable, usually fed to livestock, was used by people as a substitute for potatoes and meat, which were increasingly scarce. Thousands of soup kitchens were opened to feed the hungry people, who grumbled that the farmers were keeping the food for themselves. Even the army had to cut the rations for soldiers. Morale of both civilians and soldiers continued to sink.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire Turkish nationalists took control before the war began. They drove out Greeks and Armenians who had been the backbone of the business community, replacing them with ethnic Turks who were given favorable contracts but who lacked the international connections, credit sources, and entrepreneurial skills needed for business. The Ottoman economy was based on subsistence agriculture; there was very little industry. Turkish wheat was in high demand, but transportation was rudimentary and not much of it reached Germany. The war cut off imports except from Germany. Prices quadrupled. The Germans provided loans and supplied the army with hardware, especially captured Belgian and Russian equipment. Other supplies were in short supply; the soldiers were often in rags. Medical services were very bad and illness and death rates were high. Most of the Ottoman soldiers deserted when they had the opportunity, so the force level shrank from a peak strength of 800,000 in 1916 to only 100,000 in 1918.\n\nThe Austro-Hungarian monarchical personal union of the two countries was a result of the Compromise of 1867. Kingdom of Hungary lost its former status after the Hungarian Revolution of 1848. However following the 1867 reforms, the Austrian and the Hungarian states became co-equal within the Empire. Austria-Hungary was geographically the second-largest country in Europe after the Russian Empire, at , and the third-most populous (after Russia and the German Empire). In comparison with Germany and Britain, the Austro-Hungarian economy lagged behind considerably, as sustained modernization had begun much later in Austria-Hungary. The Empire built up the fourth-largest machine building industry of the world, after the United States, Germany, and Britain. Austria-Hungary was also the world's third largest manufacturer and exporter of electric home appliances, electric industrial appliances and facilities for power plants, after the United States and the German Empire.\n\nThe Empire of Austria and the Kingdom of Hungary had always maintained separate parliaments: the Imperial Council (Austria) and the Diet of Hungary. Except for the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713, common laws never existed in the Empire of Austria and the Kingdom of Hungary.\n\nThere was no common citizenship: one was either an Austrian citizen or a Hungarian citizen, never both. Austria and Hungary were fiscally sovereign and independent entities.The Kingdom of Hungary could preserve its separated and independent budget.\n\nHowever, by the end of the 19th century, economic differences gradually began to even out as economic growth in the eastern parts of the Empire consistently surpassed that in the western. The strong agriculture and food industry of the Kingdom of Hungary with the centre of Budapest became predominant within the empire and made up a large proportion of the export to the rest of Europe. Meanwhile, western areas, concentrated mainly around Prague and Vienna, excelled in various manufacturing industries. This division of labour between the east and west, besides the existing economic and monetary union, led to an even more rapid economic growth throughout Austria-Hungary by the early 20th century. Austria could preserve its dominance within the empire in the sectors of the first industrial revolution, but Hungary had a better position in the industries of the second industrial revolution, in these modern industrial sectors the Austrian competition could not become overwhelming.\n\nThe empire's heavy industry had mostly focused on machine building, especially for the electric power industry, locomotive industry and automotive industry, while in light industry the precision mechanics industry was the most dominant.\n\nDuring the war the national governments of Vienna and Budapest set up a highly centralized war economy, resulting in a bureaucratic dictatorship. It drafted skilled workers and engineers without realizing the damage it did to the economy.\n\nThe Czech region had a more advanced economy, but was reluctant to support the war effort. Czechs rejected any customs union with Germany, because it threatened their language and culture. Czech bankers had an eye to early independence; they purchased many securities from the Czech lands, thus insuring their strong domestic position in what became Czechoslovakia in 1918.\n\nBulgaria, a poor rural nation of 4.5 million people, at first stayed neutral. In 1915 it joined the Central Powers. It mobilized a very large army of 800,000 men, using equipment supplied by Germany. Bulgaria was ill-prepared for a long war; absence of so many soldiers sharply reduced agricultural output. Much of its best food was smuggled out to feed lucrative black markets elsewhere. By 1918 the soldiers were not only short of basic equipment like boots but they were being fed mostly corn bread with a little meat. The peace treaty in 1919 stripped Bulgaria of its conquests, reduced its army to 20,000 men, and demanded reparations of £100 million.\n\nChile's international trade collapsed and state income was reduced to half of its previous value after the start of the World War I in 1914. The Haber process, first applied on an industrial scale in 1913 and later used as part of Germany's war effort due to its lack of access to Chilean saltpetre, ended Chile's monopoly on nitrate and led to an economic decline in Chile. In addition to this the opening of Panama Canal in 1914 caused a severe drop in traffic along Chilean ports due to shifts in the maritime trade routes. \n\nConditions on the Continent were bad for every belligerent. Britain sustained the lightest damage to its civilian economy, apart from its loss of men. The major damage was to its merchant marine and to its financial holdings. The United States and Canada prospered during the war. The reparations levied on Germany by the Treaty of Versailles were, in theory, supposed to restore the damage to the civilian economies, but little of the reparations money went for that. Most of Germany's reparations payments were funded by loans from American banks, and the recipients used them to pay off loans they had from the U.S. Treasury. Between 1919 and 1932, Germany paid out 19 billion goldmarks in reparations, and received 27 billion goldmarks in loans from New York bankers and others. These loans were eventually paid back by Germany after World War II.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21513149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21513149", "title": "Elżbieta Barszczewska", "text": "Elżbieta Barszczewska\n\nElżbieta Maria Barszczewska-Wyrzykowska (29 November 1913 – 14 October 1987) was a Polish stage and film actress.\n\nAfter graduating Państwowy Instytut Sztuki Teatralnej, she debuted in Polish Theatre in Warsaw in 1934. She also starred in several movie roles, including 13 major ones. In occupied Poland, she took part in the activities of the underground theater. After the war she resumed work with the Polish Theater and the National Theatre. She was a mother of Juliusz Wyrzykowski.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7488060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7488060", "title": "Eritrean Telecommunications Corporation", "text": "Eritrean Telecommunications Corporation\n\nThe Eritrean Telecommunication Services Corporation (formerly the Telecommunications Service of Eritrea), more commonly known as EriTel, is the sole operator of landline telephone communication infrastructure in Eritrea. It is also the sole operator of the mobile telephone service. However, it is but one of several internet service providers in the country.\n\nMobile service by EriTel started in March 2004 and service has grown considerably since inception. EriTel, as of 2013, has nearly 358,000 users. EriTel operates a GSM 900 network which covers almost all major urban areas including: Asmara, Embatkala, Ghinda, Massawa, Dekemhare, Mendefera, Keren, Adi Keyh, Barentu, Teseney, Agordat, Sawa, and Nakfa.\n\nThis branch of EriTel was founded jointly between the Government of Eritrea and Ubambo Investment Holdings Limited, a South African firm. Eritel doesn't provide its customers with SMS services to foreign locations.\n\nAs an internet operator, EriTel was among the first companies to get a license to operate. To provide its product the firm provides internet cafes, leased lines and dial-up connections. However, connections are typically overcrowded and congestion is an acknowledged problem. EriTel controls the national gateway, which it created in partnership with USAID.\n\nEriTel assumed this infrastructure from the Postal and Telecommunications Authority once they were split into separate entities. The infrastructure that is used was laid during the Italian colonial period. It consists primarily of aging copper wire, though in the major urban centers, including Asmara, Massawa, and Keren, upgrades have been made to the switching systems.\n"}
{"id": "14000689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14000689", "title": "FRET (magazine)", "text": "FRET (magazine)\n\nFRET was a free magazine which covered the pop music scene in the Netherlands. It was published in the Dutch language. It contained interviews, reviews, a gig guide and background information about Dutch bands and artists. The magazine was available at record stores and venues in the Netherlands. It was published between 1994 and 2012. Today, each issue can be read digitally via their website. The website is offline as of August 2015.\n\n\"FRET\" was published by the Dutch Rock & Pop Institute.\n"}
{"id": "9348133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9348133", "title": "Federal Customs Service of Russia", "text": "Federal Customs Service of Russia\n\nThe Federal Customs Service of Russia (, \"Federalnaya tamozhennaya sluzhba Rossiskoy Federatsii\"; abbreviated , \"FTS Rossii\") is a Russian government service regulating customs.\n\nSince May 12, 2006, it has been led by Andrey Belyaninov and under direct authority of the Government of Russia. Until 2006, the Federal Customs Service of Russia was under the responsibility of the Ministry for Economic Development.\n\nThe Customs Services in Russia were formed in 1865, as The Customs Department of the Ministry of Finance.\n\nIn 1917 the Soviet Customs Service was operated as The Main Directorate for Customs Control as part of the MKTP - The People's Commissariat for Trade and Industry.\n\nIn 1991, The Soviet Customs was replaced with The State Customs Committee (GTK) under the Ministry for Economic Development and in 2006 the GTK was renamed to current name.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34997384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34997384", "title": "Front for the Liberation of Djibouti", "text": "Front for the Liberation of Djibouti\n\nFront for the Liberation of Djibouti (FLD) was a nationalist and a struggle of Independence organisation, and later guerrilla group, in the Afars and Issas (present-day Djibouti). FLD was founded in 1960 by Mahamoud Harbi. Its founding president was Adan Abdulle. FLD began armed activities inside Djibouti in 1968. FLD mainly drew its support from the Issa clan. The military struggle was actively supported by the government of Somalia in the 60s and 70s. In the struggle of Independence the Front for the Liberation of Djibouti sabotaged the Addis Ababa - Djibouti Railway in the 1977 near Dewele.\nWhen the France give Djibouti it Independence. The Front for the Liberation of Djibouti Forces want in to the Djibouti Armed Forces\n"}
{"id": "3271899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3271899", "title": "Gambia Party for Democracy and Progress", "text": "Gambia Party for Democracy and Progress\n\nThe Gambia Party for Democracy and Progress (GPDP) is a small political party in the Gambia. It is led by Henry Gomez, a resident of Hamburg, Germany. The party initially launched Gomez as their presidential candidate for the 2006 elections, but after his candidature was refused by the IEC the party joined the UDP/NRP alliance. The GPDP was part of the opposition Coalition 2016 for the 2016 presidential election, where Adama Barrow was selected as the opposition candidate and subsequently won.\n"}
{"id": "23837198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23837198", "title": "Golden Horseshoes", "text": "Golden Horseshoes\n\nGolden Horseshoes (, translit. Safa'ih min dhahab, ) is a 1989 Tunisian drama film directed by Nouri Bouzid. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1989 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nYoussef Soltane, a 45-year-old Tunisian intellectual, is the product of a generation that lived the era of euphoria and great ideologies in the sixties, and their subsequent failure. He was incarcerated and tortured for his political opinions. Furthermore, his relationship with Zineb, a young, beautiful bourgeois, only brings him more trouble. During one long winter night, Youssef wanders in search of an emotional haven, prey to all the questions that flood his memory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28164163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28164163", "title": "Graveyard Seamounts", "text": "Graveyard Seamounts\n\nThe Graveyard Seamounts is the informal name for the Graveyard Knolls These are a series of 28 small seamounts (underwater volcanoes) and edifices located on the Chatham Rise, east of New Zealand. They cover about and stand out from the surrounding oceanic plateau that measures several hundred kilometers. They are named after various morose figures following the naming of the largest of the knolls as \"the Graveyard\" as it was a graveyard of fishing gear that became stuck on it. The most prominent among the group of knolls are Ghoul, Diabolical, Voodoo, Scroll, Hartless, Pyre, Gothic, Zombie, Mummy, Headstone, Morgue and Graveyard (ordered roughly by increasing size).\n\nWhile the official name for these features refers to knolls, researchers in different disciplines see these features in different terms. These features are often referred to as seamounts where a seamount is described as any geographic isolated topographic feature on the seafloor taller than , including ones whose summit regions may temporarily emerge above sea level, but not including features that are located on continental shelves or that are part of other major landmasses.\n\nThe seamounts are the site of volcanism from the late Cenozoic era. The knolls are high, stand deep at their base and at their summit. Many of the seamounts bear marks of tidal scour from water erosion, the result of millions of years of wear by a current moving at per second.\n\nThe Graveyard Knolls is a home to over 50 species of fish, dominated by the orange roughy (\"Hoplostethus atlanticus\"), black oreo (\"Allocyttus niger\"), and cardinalfish (Apogonidae). Orange roughy in particular aggregate on the Graveyard Knolls for spawning and their visits here have supported a commercial fishery since the mid-1990s. A number of the seamounts are also home to extensive deep water coral forests, made up of \"Solenosmilia variabilis\" and \"Madrepora oculata\", both species not known to be of wide extent near New Zealand until camera surveys of Graveyard Knolls in 2001 revealed their extent. These forests offer a home to a diverse invertebrate community that includes squat lobsters, seastars, brittlestars, polychaete worms, and crabs. In contrast, the knolls in the group that are affected by bottom trawling are mostly barren, with few coral and a completely different ecosystem.\n\nIn 2001, witnessing the damage of bottom trawling to seamount communities, 19 seamounts off the coast of New Zealand were closed off to bottom trawling, three of them from the Graveyard group. Timed surveys of the seamounts over the years are being used to examine how well a seamount coral community recovers from the effects of dredging over time.\n\n"}
{"id": "13373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13373", "title": "Haiti", "text": "Haiti\n\nHaiti (; ; ), officially the Republic of Haiti (; ) and formerly called Hayti, is a country located on the island of Hispaniola, east of Cuba in the Greater Antilles archipelago of the Caribbean Sea. It occupies the western three-eighths of the island, which it shares with the Dominican Republic. Haiti is in size and has an estimated /1e6 round 1 million people, making it the most populous country in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and the second-most populous country in the Caribbean as a whole.\n\nThe region was originally inhabited by the indigenous Taíno people. Spain landed on the island on 5 December 1492 during the first voyage of Christopher Columbus across the Atlantic. When Columbus initially landed in Haiti, he had thought he had found India or China. On Christmas Day 1492, Columbus' flagship the \"Santa Maria\" ran aground north of what is now Limonade. As a consequence, Columbus ordered his men to salvage what they could from the ship, and he created the first European settlement in the Americas, naming it La Navidad after the day the ship was destroyed.\n\nThe island was named \"La Española\" and claimed by Spain, which ruled until the early 17th century. Competing claims and settlements by the French led to the western portion of the island being ceded to France, which named it \"Saint-Domingue\". Sugarcane plantations, worked by slaves brought from Africa, were established by colonists.\n\nIn the midst of the French Revolution (1789–99), slaves and free people of color revolted in the Haitian Revolution (1791–1804), culminating in the abolition of slavery and the defeat of Napoleon Bonaparte's army at the Battle of Vertières. Afterward the sovereign state of Haiti was established on 1 January 1804—the first independent nation of Latin America and the Caribbean, the second republic in the Americas, and the only nation in the world established as a result of a successful slave revolt. The rebellion that began in 1791 was led by a former slave and the first black general of the French Army, Toussaint Louverture, whose military genius and political acumen transformed an entire society of slaves into an independent country. Upon his death in a prison in France, he was succeeded by his lieutenant, Jean-Jacques Dessalines, who declared Haiti's sovereignty and later became the first Emperor of Haiti, Jacques I. The Haitian Revolution lasted just over a dozen years; and apart from Alexandre Pétion, the first President of the Republic, all the first leaders of government were former slaves. The Citadelle Laferrière is the largest fortress in the Americas. Henri Christophe—former slave and first king of Haiti, Henri I—built it to withstand a possible foreign attack.\n\nIt is a founding member of the United Nations, Organization of American States (OAS), Association of Caribbean States, and the International Francophonie Organisation. In addition to CARICOM, it is a member of the International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organization, and the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States. It has the lowest Human Development Index in the Americas. Most recently, in February 2004, a \"coup d'état\" originating in the north of the country forced the resignation and exile of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. A provisional government took control with security provided by the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH).its flag represents a coat of arms.\n\nThe name Haiti (or \"Hayti\") comes from the indigenous Taíno language which was the native name given to the entire island of Hispaniola to mean, \"land of high mountains.\" The \"h\" is silent in French and the \"ï\" in \"Haïti\", is a diacritical mark used to show that the second vowel is pronounced separately, as in the word \"naïve\". In English, this rule for the pronunciation is often disregarded, thus the spelling \"Haiti\" is used. There are different anglicizations for its pronunciation such as HIGH-ti, high-EE-ti and haa-EE-ti, which are still in use, but \"HAY-ti\" is the most widespread and best-established.\n\nThe name was restored by Haitian revolutionary Jean-Jacques Dessalines as the official name of independent Saint-Domingue, as a tribute to the Amerindian predecessors.\n\nIn French, Haiti's nickname is the \"Pearl of the Antilles\" (\"La Perle des Antilles\") because of both its natural beauty, and the amount of wealth it accumulated for the Kingdom of France; during the 18th century the colony was the world's leading producer of sugar and coffee.\n\nAt the time of European conquest, the island of Hispaniola, of which Haiti occupies the western three-eighths, was one of many Caribbean islands inhabited by the Taíno Native Americans, speakers of an Arawakan language called Taino, which has been preserved in the Haitian Creole language. The Taíno name for the entire island was \"Haiti\". The people had migrated over centuries into the Caribbean islands from South America. Genetic studies show they were related to the Yanomami of the Amazon Basin. They also originated in Central and South America. After migrating to Caribbean islands, in the 15th century, the Taíno were pushed into the northeast Caribbean islands by the Caribs.\n\nIn the Taíno societies of the Caribbean islands, the largest unit of political organization was led by a \"cacique,\" or chief, as the Europeans understood them. The island of Haiti was divided among five Caciquats: the Magua in the north east, the Marien in the north west, the Xaragua in the south west, the Maguana in the center region of Cibao and the Higuey in the south east. The caciquedoms were tributary kingdoms, with payment consisting of harvests.\n\nTaíno cultural artifacts include cave paintings in several locations in the country. These have become national symbols of Haiti and tourist attractions. Modern-day Léogane started as a French colonial town in the southwest, is beside the former capital of the caciquedom of \"Xaragua.\"\n\nNavigator Christopher Columbus landed in Haiti on 5 December 1492, in an area that he named \"Môle-Saint-Nicolas,\" and claimed the island for the Crown of Castile. Nineteen days later, his ship the \"Santa María\" ran aground near the present site of Cap-Haïtien. Columbus left 39 men on the island, who founded the settlement of La Navidad.\n\nThe sailors carried endemic Eurasian infectious diseases. The natives lacked immunity to these new diseases and died in great numbers in epidemics. The first recorded smallpox epidemic in the Americas erupted on Hispaniola in 1507. The \"\" system forced natives to work in gold mines and plantations.\n\nThe Spanish passed the Laws of Burgos, 1512–13, which forbade the maltreatment of natives, endorsed their conversion to Catholicism, and gave legal framework to \".\" The natives were brought to these sites to work in specific plantations or industries.\n\nAs a gateway to the Caribbean, Hispaniola became a haven for pirates during the early colonial period. The western part of the island was settled by French buccaneers. Among them was Bertrand d'Ogeron, who succeeded in growing tobacco. He recruited many French colonial families from Martinique and Guadeloupe. European nations were competing for control in the New World, in the Caribbean as well as in North America. France and Spain settled their hostilities on the island, by way of the Treaty of Ryswick of 1697, and divided Hispaniola between them.\n\nFrance received the western third and subsequently named it Saint-Domingue, the French equivalent of \"Santo Domingo\", the Spanish colony of Hispaniola and the name of its patron saint, Saint Dominic.\n\nTo develop it into sugarcane plantations, the French imported thousands of slaves from Africa. Sugar was a lucrative commodity crop throughout the 18th century. By 1789, approximately 40,000 white colonists lived in Saint-Domingue. In contrast, by 1763 the white population of French Canada, a vast territory, had numbered 65,000. The whites were vastly outnumbered by the tens of thousands of black slaves they had imported to work on their plantations, which were primarily devoted to the production of sugarcane. In the north of the island, slaves were able to retain many ties to African cultures, religion and language; these ties were continually being renewed by newly imported Africans. Blacks outnumbered whites by about ten to one.\n\nThe French-enacted \"Code Noir\" (\"Black Code\"), prepared by Jean-Baptiste Colbert and ratified by Louis XIV, had established rules on slave treatment and permissible freedoms. Saint-Domingue has been described as one of the most brutally efficient slave colonies; one-third of newly imported Africans died within a few years. Many slaves died from diseases such as smallpox and typhoid fever. They had low birth rates, and there is evidence that some women aborted fetuses rather than give birth to children within the bonds of slavery.\n\nAs in its Louisiana colony, the French colonial government allowed some rights to free people of color: the mixed-race descendants of European male colonists and African female slaves (and later, mixed-race women). Over time, many were released from slavery. They established a separate social class. White French Creole fathers frequently sent their mixed-race sons to France for their education. Some men of color were admitted into the military. More of the free people of color lived in the south of the island, near Port-au-Prince, and many intermarried within their community. They frequently worked as artisans and tradesmen, and began to own some property. Some became slave holders. The free people of color petitioned the colonial government to expand their rights.\nSlaves that made it to Haiti from the trans-Atlantic journey and slaves born in Haiti were first documented in Haiti's archives and transferred to France's Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. , these records are in The National Archives of France. According to the 1788 Census, Haiti's population consisted of nearly 25,000 Europeans, 22,000 free coloreds and 700,000 African slaves.\n\nInspired by the French Revolution of 1789 and principles of the rights of man, free people of color and slaves in Saint-Domingue and the French West Indies pressed for freedom and more civil rights. Most important was the revolution of the slaves in Saint-Domingue, starting in the northern plains in 1791, where Africans greatly outnumbered the whites.\n\nIn 1792, the French government sent three commissioners with troops to re-establish control. To build an alliance with the \"gens de couleur\" and slaves, the French commissioners Sonthonax and Polverel abolished slavery in the colony. Six months later, the National Convention, led by Robespierre and the Jacobins, endorsed abolition and extended it to all the French colonies.\n\nPolitical leaders in the United States, which was a new republic itself, reacted with ambivalence, at times providing aid to enable planters to put down the revolt. Later in the revolution, the US provided support to native Haitian military forces, with the goal of reducing French influence in North America and the Caribbean.\n\nToussaint Louverture, a former slave and leader in the slave revolt, drove out the Spanish (from Santo Domingo) and the British invaders who threatened the colony. In the uncertain years of revolution, the United States played both sides off against each other, with its traders supplying both the French and the rebels. The struggle within Haiti between the free people of color led by André Rigaud and the Haitians of African ancestry led by Louverture devolved into the War of the Knives in 1799 and 1800. Many surviving free people of color left the island as refugees.\nAfter Louverture created a separatist constitution, Napoléon Bonaparte in 1802 sent an expedition of 20,000 soldiers and as many sailors under the command of his brother-in-law, General Charles Leclerc , to retake the island. The French achieved some victories, but within a few months, most of the French had died from yellow fever. More than 50,000 French troops died in an attempt to retake the colony, including 18 generals. The French captured Louverture, transporting him to France for trial. He was imprisoned at Fort de Joux, where he died in 1803 of exposure and possibly tuberculosis.\n\nThe slaves, along with free \"gens de couleur\" and allies, continued their fight for independence. Jean-Jacques Dessalines defeated French troops at the Battle of Vertières on 18 November 1803, leading the first ever nation to successfully gain independence through a slave revolt. In late 1803, France withdrew its remaining 7,000 troops from the island and Napoleon gave up his idea of re-establishing a North American empire. With the war going badly, he sold Louisiana (New France) to the United States, in the Louisiana Purchase.\n\nThe independence of Saint-Domingue was proclaimed by Dessalines on 1 January 1804. It has been estimated that between 24,000 and 100,000 Europeans, and between 100,000 and 350,000 Haitian ex-slaves, died in the revolution. Tropical disease was a major factor in the number of deaths. Many black and Caribbean people died fighting for white masters; and a large number of British and Spanish soldiers, deployed to neighbouring Saint-Domingue, died aiding the rebels.\n\nDessalines was proclaimed \"Emperor for Life\" by his troops. Dessalines at first offered protection to the white planters and others. Once in power, he ordered the massacre of most whites. Without regard to age or gender, those who did not swear allegiance to him were slain. In the continuing competition for power, he was assassinated by rivals on 17 October 1806.\n\nOnly three categories of white people were selected out as exceptions and spared: the Polish soldiers, the majority of whom deserted from the French army and fought alongside the Haitian rebels; the little group of German colonists invited to the north-west region; and a group of medical doctors and professionals. Reportedly, people with connections to officers in the Haitian army were also spared, as well as the women who agreed to marry non-white men.\n\nFearful of the influence of the slaves' revolution, U.S. President Thomas Jefferson refused to recognize the new republic, as did most European nations. The U.S. did not officially recognize Haiti for decades, until after the start of the American Civil War.\n\nThe revolution led to a wave of emigration. In 1809, nearly 10,000 refugees from Saint-Domingue settled \"en masse\" in New Orleans. They doubled the city's population. In addition, the newly arrived slaves added to the city's African population.\n\nSaint-Domingue was divided between the Kingdom of Haiti in the north, directed by Henri Christophe, who declared himself Henri I, and a republic in the south, directed by Alexandre Pétion, an \"homme de couleur\". Henri Christophe established a semi-feudal corvée system, with a rigid education and economic code.\n\nPresident Pétion gave military and financial assistance to the revolutionary leader Simón Bolívar, which were critical in enabling him to liberate the Viceroyalty of New Granada. He was instrumental in aiding countries in South America achieve independence from Spain.\n\nBeginning in 1821, President Jean-Pierre Boyer, also an \"homme de couleur\" and successor to Pétion, reunified the island and extended control over the entire western portion of the island. In addition, after Santo Domingo declared its independence from Spain on 30 November 1821, Boyer sent forces in to take control. Boyer ruled the entire island and ended slavery in Santo Domingo. After Santo Domingo achieved independence from Haiti, it established a separate national identity.\n\nStruggling to revive the agricultural economy to produce commodity crops, Boyer passed the Code Rural, which denied peasant laborers the right to leave the land, enter the towns, or start farms or shops of their own. Following the Revolution, many peasants wanted to have their own farms rather than work on plantations.\n\nThe American Colonization Society (ACS) encouraged free blacks in the United States to emigrate to Haiti. Starting in September 1824, more than 6,000 African Americans migrated to Haiti, with transportation paid by the ACS. Many found the conditions too harsh and returned to the United States.\n\nIn July 1825, King Charles X of France, during a period of restoration of the monarchy, sent a fleet to reconquer the island. Under pressure, President Boyer agreed to a treaty by which France formally recognized the independence of the nation in exchange for a payment of 150 million francs. By an order of 17 April 1826, the King of France renounced his rights of sovereignty over Santo Domingo, and recognized the independence of Haiti.\n\nThough the amount of the reparations was reduced to 90 million in 1838. The Haitian president would have had little choice as the country, unknowingly to him, would have been blockaded by French ships if the exchange did not go the French way. In order to repay the full debt, Haiti also borrowed from American and German banks at extremely high interest rates; Haiti did not finish repaying the debt until 1947 and it is said that by 1900, 80 percent of the country's gross domestic product was being spent on debt repayment.\n\nAfter losing the support of Haiti's elite, Boyer was ousted in 1843. A long succession of coups followed his departure to exile.\n\nThe enforced payment to France reduced Haiti's economy for years. Western nations did not give Haiti formal diplomatic recognition. Both of these problems kept the Haitian economy and society isolated. Expatriates bankrolled and armed opposing groups.\n\nCharles Rivière-Hérard replaced Boyer as president of Haiti. Nationalist forces led by Juan Pablo Duarte seized control of Santo Domingo on 27 February 1844. Unprofessional and undisciplined Haitian forces in the east, unprepared for a significant uprising, capitulated to the rebels. In March Rivière-Hérard attempted to reimpose his authority, but the Dominicans put up stiff opposition and inflicted heavy losses on the Haitians. Soon after Rivière-Hérard crossed the border, domestic turmoil exploded again. Rivière-Hérard was removed from office by the mulatto hierarchy and replaced with the aged black general Philippe Guerrier, who assumed the presidency on 3 May 1844.\n\nPhilippe Guerrier died in April 1845, and was succeeded by General Jean-Louis Pierrot. Pierrot's most pressing duty as the new president was to check the incursions of the Dominicans, who were harassing the Haitian troops along the borders. Dominican gunboats were also making depredations on Haiti's coasts. President Pierrot decided to open a campaign against the Dominicans, whom he considered merely as insurgents. The Haitian offensive of 1845 was stopped on the frontier.\n\nOn 1 January 1846 Pierrot announced a fresh campaign to put down the Dominicans, but his officers and men greeted this fresh summons with contempt. Thus, a month later – February 1846 – when Pierrot ordered his troops to march against the Dominican Republic, the Haitian army mutinied, and its soldiers proclaimed his overthrow as president of the republic. The war against the Dominicans had become very unpopular in Haiti. It was beyond the power of the new president, General Jean-Baptiste Riché, to stage another invasion.\n\nOn 27 February 1846, President Riché died after only a few days of power and was replaced by an obscure officer, General Faustin Soulouque. During the first two years of Soulouque's administration the conspiracies and opposition he faced in retaining power were so manifold that the Dominicans were given a further breathing space in which to continue the re-organization of their country. But, when in 1848 France finally recognized the Dominican Republic as a free and independent state and provisionally signed a treaty of peace, friendship, commerce and navigation, Haiti immediately protested, claiming the treaty was an attack upon their own security. Soulouque decided to invade the east before the French Government could ratify the treaty.\n\nOn 21 March 1849, Haitian soldiers attacked the Dominican garrison at Las Matas. The demoralized defenders offered almost no resistance before abandoning their weapons. Soulouque pressed on, capturing San Juan. This left only the town of Azua as the remaining Dominican stronghold between the Haitian army and the capital. On 6 April, Azua fell to 18,000 Haitians and a 5,000-man Dominican counterattack failed. The way to Santo Domingo was clear. But the news of discontent existing at Port-au-Prince, which reached Soulouque, arrested his further progress and caused him to return with the army to his capital.\n\nEmboldened by the sudden retreat of the Haitian army, the Dominicans had resumed their depredations. Their flotilla went as far as Dame-Marie, which they plundered and set on fire. Soulouque, now self-proclaimed as Emperor Faustin I, decided to start a new campaign against them. In 1855, he invaded the territory of the Dominican Republic. But owing to insufficient preparation, the army was soon in want of victuals and ammunition. In spite of the bravery of the soldiers, the Emperor had once more to give up the idea of restoring unity of government in the island. After this campaign, Great Britain and France interfered and obtained an armistice on behalf of the Dominicans.\n\nThe sufferings endured by the soldiers during the campaign of 1855, the losses and sacrifices inflicted on the country without compensation or practical result provoked great discontent. In 1858, a revolution began, led by General Fabre Geffrard, Duke of Tabara. In December of that year, Geffrard defeated the Imperial Army and seized control of most of the country. As a result, the Emperor abdicated his throne on 15 January 1859. Refused aid by the French Legation, Faustin was taken into exile aboard a British warship on 22 January 1859. General Geffrard succeeded him as President.\n\nIn 1892, the German government supported suppression of the reform movement of Anténor Firmin, and in 1897, the Germans used gunboat diplomacy to intimidate and then humiliate the Haitian government during the Luders Affair.\n\nIn the first decades of the 20th century, Haiti experienced great political instability and was heavily in debt to France, Germany and the United States. Fearing possible foreign intervention, President Woodrow Wilson sent U.S. Marines into Haiti in December 1914, just after the outbreak of World War I. They removed $500,000 from the Haitian National Bank, but rather than seize it to help pay the debt, it was removed for safe-keeping in New York, thus giving the United States control of the bank and preventing other powers from doing so. This gave a stable financial base on which to build the economy, and so enable the debt to be repaid.\n\nIn an expression of the Theodore Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine, the United States occupied the island in July 1915 after the local assassination of Haiti's president, Vilbrun Guillaume Sam . The Haitian president had been dragged from the French legation and killed in the street by local insurgents after he had ordered 167 political prisoners killed. The , under Rear Admiral Caperton, arrived in Port-au-Prince in an attempt to restore order and protect U.S. interests. This began a nearly 20-year occupation by U.S. forces. Within days, the Marines had taken control of the capital city and its banks and customs house, which controlled all the finances of the island nation. The Marines declared martial law and severely censored the press. Within weeks, a new pro-U.S. Haitian president, Philippe Sudré Dartiguenave, was installed and a new constitution written that was favorable to the interests of the United States. The new constitution included a clause that allowed, for the first time, foreign ownership of land in Haiti, which was bitterly opposed by the Haitian legislature and citizenry.\n\nThe occupation greatly improved some of Haiti's infrastructure and centralized power in Port-au-Prince. Infrastructure improvements were particularly impressive: 1700 km of roads were made usable, 189 bridges were built, many irrigation canals were rehabilitated, hospitals, schools, and public buildings were constructed, and drinking water was brought to the main cities. Port-au-Prince became the first Caribbean city to have a phone service with automatic dialing. Agricultural education was organized, with a central school of agriculture and 69 farms in the country. The roads were built using the Hatian's own corvee system that allowed the government/occupying forces to take people from their homes and farms, at gunpoint if necessary, to build roads, bridges, etc.\n\nThe U.S. Marines were instilled with a special brand of paternalism towards Haitians. Mary Renda writes that \"paternalism was an assertion of authority, superiority, and control expressed in the metaphor of a father's relationship with his children.\" During Senate hearings in 1921, the commandant of the Marine Corps reported that, in the 20 months of active unrest, 2,250 Haitians had been killed. However, in a report to the Secretary of the Navy, he reported the death toll as being 3,250. Haitian historians have claimed the true number was much higher. One went so far as to say, \"the total number of battle victims and casualties of repression and consequences of the war might have reached, by the end of the pacification period, four or five times that – somewhere in the neighborhood of 15,000 persons.\" This is not supported by most historians outside Haiti.\n\nThis chapter in the two nations' histories reflects the interventionist foreign policy of the United States toward its backwards neighbors in Central America and the Caribbean that is often characterized as \"gunboat diplomacy\", or one of many \"Banana Wars\" that plagued the region in the early 20th century. U.S. Marines were stationed in the country until 1934, a period of 19 years, and were finally ordered from the island by Franklin D. Roosevelt as a demonstration of his \"Good Neighbor Policy\". However, the United States controlled the economy of the island and heavily influenced elections in Haiti up through the 1980s.\n\nSisal was introduced to Haiti, and sugarcane and cotton became significant exports, boosting prosperity. Haitian traditionalists, based in rural areas, were highly resistant to U.S.-backed changes, while the urban elites welcomed the growing economy, but wanted more political control. Together they helped secure an end to the occupation in 1934. The debts were still outstanding, though less due to increased prosperity, and the U.S. financial advisor-general receiver handled the budget until 1941.\n\nRecognition of the distinctive traditionalism of the Haitian people had an influence on United States writers, including Eugene O'Neill, James Weldon Johnson, Langston Hughes, Zora Neale Hurston and Orson Welles.\n\nAfter US forces left in 1934, Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo used anti-Haitian sentiment as a nationalist tool, absent US protection. In an event that became known as the Parsley Massacre, he ordered his army to kill Haitians living on the Dominican side of the border. Few bullets were used. Instead, 20,000–30,000 Haitians were bludgeoned and bayonetted, then herded into the sea, where sharks finished what Trujillo had begun. Congressman Hamilton Fish, ranking member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, called the Parsley Massacre \"the most outrageous atrocity that has ever been perpetrated on the American continent.\" Though he was one-quarter Haitian himself, Trujillo continued policies against the neighboring population for some time.\n\nIn 1941, during the Second World War, Haiti declared war on Japan (8 December), Germany (12 December), Italy (12 December), Bulgaria (24 December), Hungary (24 December) and Romania (24 December). Out of these six Axis countries, only Romania reciprocated, declaring war on Haiti on the same day (24 December 1941).\n\nOn 27 September 1945, Haiti became a founding member of the United Nations (successor to the League of Nations, in which Haiti was also a founding member). In the 1950s, U.S. and European tourists started to visit Haiti.\n\nThe waterfront area of Port-au-Prince was redeveloped to allow cruise ship passengers to walk from the docks to cultural attractions.\nAmong these attractions were the Moorish-styled \"Iron Market\", where fine Haitian art and mahogany were sold. In the evenings entrepreneurs provided dancing, casino gambling and Voodoo shows. Truman Capote and Noël Coward visited the Hotel Oloffson, a 19th-century Gothic gingerbread mansion set in a tropical garden, which was even portrayed in Graham Greene's 1966 novel \"The Comedians\".\n\nAfter a period of disorder, in September 1957 Dr. François Duvalier was elected President of Haiti. Known as \"Papa Doc\" and initially popular, Duvalier was President until his death in 1971. He advanced black interests in the public sector, where over time, people of color had predominated as the educated urban elite. He stayed in power by enlisting an organization known as \"Tontons Macoutes\" (\"Bogeymen\"), which maintained order by terrorizing the populace and political opponents. 40,000 to 60,000 Haitians are estimated to have been killed during the reign of the Duvalier father and son.\n\nHaiti's brief tourism boom was wiped out by the rule of Papa Doc Duvalier and his unstable government. When his son Jean-Claude \"Baby Doc\" Duvalier succeeded him as \"President for Life\", tourism returned in the 1970s. \"Vive la différence\" has long been Haiti's national tourism slogan and its proximity to the United States made Haiti a hot attraction until the Duvalier regime was ousted in 1986.\n\nPapa Doc's son led the country from 1971 until his ouster in 1986, when protests led him to seek exile in France. Army leader General Henri Namphy headed a new National Governing Council. General elections in November were aborted after dozens of inhabitants were shot in the capital by soldiers and Tontons Macoutes. Fraudulent elections followed. The elected President, Leslie Manigat, was overthrown some months later in the June 1988 Haitian coup d'état. The September 1988 Haitian coup d'état, which followed the St. Jean Bosco massacre, revealed the increasing prominence of former Tontons Macoutes. General Prosper Avril led a military regime until March 1990.\n\nIn December 1990, a former Catholic priest, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, was elected President in the Haitian general election. In September of the following year, Aristide was overthrown by the military in the 1991 Haitian coup d'état.\n\nIn September 1994, a U.S. team negotiated the departure of Haiti's military leaders and the peaceful entry of U.S. forces under Operation Uphold Democracy. This enabled the restoration of the democratically elected Jean-Bertrand Aristide as president. In October 1994, Aristide returned to Haiti to complete his term in office. Aristide vacated the presidency in February 1996. In the 1995 election, René Préval was elected as president for a five-year term, winning 88% of the popular vote.\n\nIn November 1994, Hurricane Gordon brushed Haiti, dumping heavy rain and creating flash flooding that triggered mudslides. Gordon killed an estimated 1,122 people, although some estimates go as high as 2,200.\n\nThe November 2000 election returned Aristide to the presidency with 92% of the vote. The election had been boycotted by the opposition, then organized into the Convergence Démocratique, over a dispute in the May legislative elections. In subsequent years, there was increasing violence and human rights abuses. Aristide spent years negotiating with the Convergence Démocratique on new elections, but the Convergence's inability to develop a sufficient electoral base made elections unattractive.\n\nIn 2004, a revolt began in northern Haiti. The rebellion eventually reached the capital, and Aristide was forced into exile, after which the United Nations stationed peacekeepers in Haiti. Some, including Aristide and his bodyguard, Franz Gabriel, stated that he was the victim of a \"new coup d'état or modern kidnapping\" by U.S. forces. Mrs. Aristide stated that the kidnappers wore U.S. Special Forces uniforms, but changed into civilian clothes upon boarding the aircraft that was used to remove Aristide from Haiti. The United Nations Stabilisation Mission (MINUSTAH) was established after the 2004 coup d'état and remains in the country to the present day. Boniface Alexandre assumed interim authority. René Préval was elected President in February 2006, following elections marked by uncertainties and popular demonstrations.\n\nIn 2004, Tropical Storm Jeanne skimmed the north coast of Haiti, leaving 3,006 people dead in flooding and mudslides, mostly in the city of Gonaïves. In 2008, Haiti was again struck by tropical storms; Tropical Storm Fay, Hurricane Gustav, Hurricane Hanna and Hurricane Ike all produced heavy winds and rain. There were 331 dead and about 800,000 in need of humanitarian aid. The state of affairs produced by these storms was intensified by already high food and fuel prices that had caused a food crisis and political unrest in April 2008.\n\nOn 12 January 2010, at 4:53pm local time, Haiti was struck by a magnitude-7.0 earthquake. This was the country's most severe earthquake in over 200 years. The 2010 Haiti earthquake was reported to have left between 220,000 and 300,000 people dead and up to 1.6 million homeless.\n\nGeneral elections had been planned for January 2010 but were postponed due to the earthquake. The elections were held on 28 November 2010 for the senate, the parliament and the first round of the presidential elections. The run-off between Michel Martelly and Mirlande Manigat took place on 20 March 2011, and preliminary results, released on 4 April, named Michel Martelly the winner. On 7 February 2016, Michel Martelly stepped down as president without a successor, but only after a deal was reached for a provisional government and leaving Prime Minister Evans Paul in power \"until an interim president is chosen by both chambers of Parliament.\"\n\nIn 2013, Haiti called for European nations to pay reparations for slavery and establish an official commission for the settlement of past wrongdoings. The \"Economist\" wrote, \"Any assistance to the region should be carefully targeted; and should surely stem from today's needs, not the wrongs of the past.\" The topic, however, has more than a passing reference to a country that, as Lord Anthony Gifford wrote, \"was forced to pay compensation to the government of France.\"\n\nOn 4 October 2016, Hurricane Matthew made landfall near Les Anglais, making it the worst hurricane to strike the nation since Hurricane Cleo in 1964. The storm brought deadly winds and rain that left Haiti with a large amount of damage to be repaired. With all of the resources in the country destroyed, Haiti received aid from the United Nations of around US$120 million. The death total was approximately 3,000. Thousands of people were displaced due to infrastructure damage. Also, the cholera outbreak has been growing since the storm hit Haiti. With additional flooding after the storm, cholera continued to spread beyond the control of officials. The storm also caused damage to hospitals and roads, which created a larger problem in helping victims and moving resources. The devastation and damage that Hurricane Matthew caused were sudden and left Haiti in a state of emergency.\n\nHaiti is on the western part of Hispaniola, the second largest island in the Greater Antilles. Haiti is the third largest country in the Caribbean behind Cuba and the Dominican Republic (the latter shares a border with Haiti). Haiti at its closest point is about away from Cuba and comprises the \"horseshoe\"-shape peninsula and because of this, it has a disproportionately long coastline and is \"second\" in length () behind Cuba in the Greater Antilles.\n\nHaiti is the most mountainous nation in the Caribbean and its terrain consists mainly of them interspersed with small coastal plains and river valleys. The climate is tropical, with some variation depending on altitude. The highest point is Pic la Selle, at .\n\nThe northern region consists of the \"Massif du Nord\" (Northern Massif) and the \"Plaine du Nord\" (Northern Plain). The \"Massif du Nord\" is an extension of the \"Cordillera Central\" in the Dominican Republic. It begins at Haiti's eastern border, north of the Guayamouc River, and extends to the northwest through the northern peninsula. The lowlands of the \"Plaine du Nord\" lie along the northern border with the Dominican Republic, between the \"Massif du Nord\" and the North Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe central region consists of two plains and two sets of mountain ranges. The \"Plateau Central\" (Central Plateau) extends along both sides of the Guayamouc River, south of the \"Massif du Nord\". It runs from the southeast to the northwest. To the southwest of the \"Plateau Central\" are the \"Montagnes Noires\", whose most northwestern part merges with the \"Massif du Nord\". Its westernmost point is known as Cap Carcasse.\n\nThe southern region consists of the Plaine du Cul-de-Sac (the southeast) and the mountainous southern peninsula (also known as the Tiburon Peninsula). The Plaine du Cul-de-Sac is a natural depression that harbors the country's saline lakes, such as Trou Caïman and Haiti's largest lake, Étang Saumatre. The Chaîne de la Selle mountain range – an extension of the southern mountain chain of the Dominican Republic (the Sierra de Baoruco) – extends from the Massif de la Selle in the east to the Massif de la Hotte in the west. This mountain range harbors Pic la Selle, the highest point in Haiti at .\n\nHaiti's most important valley in terms of crops is the Plaine de l'Artibonite, which is oriented south of the Montagnes Noires. This region supports the country's (also Hispaniola's) longest river, the Riviere l'Artibonite, which begins in the western region of the Dominican Republic and continues most of its length through central Haiti and onward where it empties into the Golfe de la Gonâve. The eastern and central region of the island is a large elevated plateau.\n\nHaiti also includes various offshore islands. The island of Tortuga (Île de la Tortue) is located off the coast of northern Haiti. The arrondissement of La Gonâve is located on the island of the same name, in the Golfe de la Gonâve. Gonâve Island is moderately populated by rural villagers. Île à Vache (Cow Island), a lush island with many beautiful sights, is located off the tip of southwestern Haiti. Also part of Haiti are the Cayemites and Île d' Anacaona. La Navasse located west of Jérémie on the south west peninsula of Haiti, is subject to an ongoing territorial dispute with the United States.\n\nHaiti's climate is tropical with some variation depending on altitude. Port-au-Prince ranges in January from an average minimum of to an average maximum of ; in July, from . The rainfall pattern is varied, with rain heavier in some of the lowlands and the northern and eastern slopes of the mountains. Haiti's dry season occurs from November to January.\n\nPort-au-Prince receives an average annual rainfall of . There are two rainy seasons, April–June and October–November. Haiti is subject to periodic droughts and floods, made more severe by deforestation. Hurricanes are also a menace. In summary, Haiti is generally a hot and humid tropical climate.\n\nThere are blind thrust faults associated with the Enriquillo-Plantain Garden fault system over which Haiti lies. After the earthquake of 2010, there was no evidence of surface rupture and geologists' findings were based on seismological, geological and ground deformation data.\n\nThe northern boundary of the fault is where the Caribbean tectonic plate shifts eastwards by about per year in relation to the North American plate. The strike-slip fault system in the region has two branches in Haiti, the Septentrional-Oriente fault in the north and the Enriquillo-Plantain Garden fault in the south.\n\nA 2007 earthquake hazard study, noted that the Enriquillo-Plantain Garden fault zone could be at the end of its seismic cycle and concluded that a worst-case forecast would involve a 7.2 M earthquake, similar in size to the 1692 Jamaica earthquake. A study team presented a hazard assessment of the Enriquillo-Plantain Garden fault system to the 18th Caribbean Geologic Conference in March 2008, noting the large strain. The team recommended \"high priority\" historical geologic rupture studies, as the fault was fully locked and had recorded few earthquakes in the preceding 40 years. An article published in Haiti's \"Le Matin\" newspaper in September 2008 cited comments by geologist Patrick Charles to the effect that there was a high risk of major seismic activity in Port-au-Prince; and duly the magnitude 7.0 2010 Haiti earthquake happened on this fault zone on 12 January 2010.\n\nHaiti also has rare elements such as gold, which can be found at The Mont Organisé gold mine.\n\nThe soil erosion released from the upper catchments and deforestation have caused periodic and severe flooding in Haiti, as experienced, for example, on 17 September 2004. Earlier in May that year, floods had killed over 3,000 people on Haiti's southern border with the Dominican Republic.\n\nHaiti's forests covered 60 percent of the country as recently as fifty years ago, but today, according to more in-depth environmental analysis, the country yields approximately 30 percent tree cover, a stark difference from the often cited 2 percent which has been widely circulated in discourse concerning Haiti.\n\nScientists at the Columbia University's Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN) and the United Nations Environment Programme are working on the Haiti Regenerative Initiative an initiative aiming to reduce poverty and natural disaster vulnerability in Haiti through ecosystem restoration and sustainable resource management.\n\nThe government of Haiti is a semi-presidential republic, a multiparty system wherein the President of Haiti is head of state elected directly by popular elections. The Prime Minister acts as head of government and is appointed by the President, chosen from the majority party in the National Assembly. Executive power is exercised by the President and Prime Minister who together constitute the government. In 2013, the annual budget was US$1 billion.\n\nLegislative power is vested in both the government and the two chambers of the National Assembly of Haiti. The government is organized unitarily, thus the central government \"delegates\" powers to the departments without a constitutional need for consent. The current structure of Haiti's political system was set forth in the Constitution of Haiti on 29 March 1987.\n\nHaitian politics have been contentious: since independence, Haiti has suffered 32 coups. Haiti is the only country in the Western Hemisphere to undergo a successful slave revolution, but a long history of oppression by dictators—including François Duvalier and his son Jean-Claude Duvalier—has markedly affected the nation. France, the United States and other Western countries have repeatedly intervened in Haitian politics since the country's founding, sometimes at the request of one party or another. Along with international financial institutions, they have imposed large quantities of debt. Haiti has so much foreign debt that payments have rivaled the available government budget for social sector spending. There have been criticisms of financial institutions for enforcing trade policies on Haiti, which are considered by some to be detrimental to local industry.\n\nAccording to a 2006 report by the Corruption Perceptions Index, there is a strong correlation between corruption and poverty in Haiti. The nation ranked first of \"all\" countries surveyed for of levels of perceived domestic corruption. The International Red Cross reports that seven out of ten Haitians live on less than US$2 a day.\n\nThis statistic was somewhat disputed in a 2006 article about poverty in the slums of Haiti (written for the Red Cross), wherein ICRC officer Didier Revol wrote, \"Such statistical estimations should be looked upon very skeptically because of the fact that the average Haitian and Haitian family has to and does spend a lot more than that daily. The disconnect likely lies in the fact that these are estimates based on surveys conducted by asking individuals what their incomes are; in the Haitian culture it is very unlikely that one will receive a truthful and accurate answer to such a personal question. For various reasons individuals will not tell the truth on such a private matter. For some it is because 'it's none of your business', for others, they will simply exaggerate their poor situation in hopes that some type of financial aide will be gained or rendered to them\".\n\nThe commune of Cité Soleil in Port-au-Prince has been called \"the most dangerous place on Earth\" by the United Nations. It is one of the largest slums in the Northern Hemisphere. Many of its residents are supporters of former Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who, according to the BBC, \"accused the US of forcing him out – an accusation the US rejected as 'absurd'\".\n\nJean-Bertrand Aristide was initially denied access to Haiti by Haitian immigration authorities, despite issuing appeals for entrance to his supporters and international observers. The world's most prominent governments did not overtly oppose such appeals, nor did they support them; an unnamed analyst \"close to the Haitian government\" quoted in several media sources including \"The New York Times\" is reported to have said: \"Aristide could have 15 passports and he's still not going to come back to Haiti [...] France and the United States are standing in the way.\" However, Aristide finally returned to Haiti on 18 March 2011, days before the 2011 presidential election.\n\nThe first round of the 2010 general election was held in December. Mirlande Manigat and Jude Celestin qualified for the second round of the presidential election, but its results were contested. Some people said that the first round was a fraud and that Michel Martelly should replace Jude Celestin, René Préval's chosen successor. There was some violence between the contending parties. On 4 April 2011, the Provisional Electoral Council announced preliminary results indicating that Martelly had won the presidential election.\n\nAfter the U.S. funded $33 million to legislative and presidential elections in August and October 2015, a special verification panel – implemented by interim President Joceleme Privert – declared the results \"tainted by significant fraud\". Jovenel Moïse, the supposed winner of the 25 October 2015 election, had been hand-picked by former President Michel Martelly. The month-long examination in May 2016 was created after the elections were condemned as fraudulent to restore credibility to the process. The commission recommended completely redoing the vote after auditing a random sample of about 13,000 ballots.\n\nIn February 2012, Haiti signaled it would seek to upgrade its observer status to full associate member status of the African Union (AU). The AU was reported to be planning to upgrade Haiti's status from observer to associate at its June 2013 summit but the application had still not been ratified by May 2016.\nIn 2010, the Haitian National Police force numbered 7,000. The legal system for torts is based on a version of the Napoleonic Code.\n\nThe Institute for the Protection of National Heritage has preserved 33 historical monuments and the historic center of Cap-Haïtien.\n\nHaiti's Ministry of Defense is the main body of their armed forces. The former Haitian Armed Forces were demobilized in 1995, however, efforts to reconstitute it are currently underway. The current defense force for Haiti is the Haitian National Police, which has a highly trained SWAT team, and works alongside the Haitian Coast Guard.\n\nHaiti has consistently ranked among the most corrupt countries in the world on the Corruption Perceptions Index. It is estimated that President \"Baby Doc\" Duvalier, his wife Michelle, and their agents stole US $504 million from the country's treasury between 1971 and 1986. Similarly, after the Haitian Army folded in 1995, the Haitian National Police (HNP) gained sole power of authority on the Haitian citizens. Many Haitians as well as observers of the Haitian society believe that this monopolized power could have given way to a corrupt police force.\n\nSimilarly, some media outlets alleged that millions were stolen by former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide. In March 2004, at the time of Aristide's kidnapping, a BBC article wrote that the Bush administration State Department stated that Aristide had been involved in drug trafficking. The BBC also described pyramid schemes, in which Haitians lost hundreds of millions in 2002, as the \"only real economic initiative\" of the Aristide years.\n\nConversely, according to the 2013 United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) report, murder rates in Haiti (10.2 per 100,000) are far \"below\" the regional average (26 per 100,000); less than that of Jamaica (39.3 per 100,000) and nearly that of the Dominican Republic (22.1 per 100,000), making it among the safer countries in the region. In large part, this is due to the country's ability to fulfil a pledge by increasing its national police yearly by 50%, a four-year initiative that was started in 2012. In addition to the yearly recruits, the Haitian National Police (HNP) has been using innovative technologies to crack down on crime. A notable bust in recent years led to the dismantlement of the largest kidnapping ring in the country with the use of an advanced software program developed by a West Point-trained Haitian official that proved to be so effective that it has led to its foreign advisers to make inquiries.\n\nIn 2010, the New York City Police Department (NYPD) sent a team of veteran officers to Haiti to assist in the rebuilding of its police force with special training in investigative techniques, strategies to improve the anti-kidnapping personnel and community outreach to build stronger relationships with the public especially among the youth. It has also helped the HNP set up a police unit in the center of Delmas, a neighborhood of Port-au-Prince.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, 150 HNP officers received specialized training funded by the US government, which also contributed to the infrastructure and communications support by upgrading radio capacity and constructing new police stations from the most violent-prone neighborhoods of Cité Soleil and Grande Ravine in Port-au-Prince to the new northern industrial park at Caracol.\n\nPort-au-Prince penitentiary is home to half of Haiti's prisoners. The prison has a capacity of 1,200 detainees but the penitentiary was obliged to keep 4,359 detainees, a 454% occupancy level. This leads to severe consequences for the inmates.\n\nOne cell could hold up to 60 inmates which was originally designed for only 18, therefore creating tight and uncomfortable living conditions. The inmates are forced to create makeshift hammocks from the wall and ceilings. The men are on a 22/ 23 hour lock up in the cells so the risk of diseases is very high. Unable to receive sufficient funds from the government as Haiti endures severe natural disasters which takes up their attention and resources, such as the 2010 earthquake, has caused deadly cases of malnutrition, combined with the tight living conditions, increases the risk of infectious diseases such as tuberculosis which has led to 21 deaths in January 2017 alone at the Port-au-Prince penitentiary.\n\nHaitian law states that once arrested, one must go before a judge within 48 hours; however, this is very rare. In an interview with Unreported World, the prison governor stated that around 529 detainees were never sentenced, there are 3,830 detainees who are in prolonged detained trial detention. Therefore, 80% are not convicted.\n\nUnless families are able to provide the necessary funds for inmates to appear before a judge there is a very slim chance the inmate would have a trial, on average, within 10 years. Brian Concannon, the director of the non-profit Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti, claims that without a substantial bribe to persuade judges, prosecutors and lawyers to undergo their case, there is no prospect for a getting a trial for years.\n\nFamilies may send food to the penitentiary; however, most inmates depend on the meals served twice a day. Unfortunately, majority of the meals consist on rational supplies of rice, oats or cornmeal. This has led to deadly cases of malnutrition-related ailments such as beriberi and anaemia. Prisoners too weak are crammed in the penitentiary infirmary.\n\nIn the confined living spaces for 22/ 23 hours a day, inmates are not provided with latrines and a forced to defecate into plastic bags and leave them outside their cells. These conditions are considered in-humane by the Inter-American Court of Human Rights in 2008.\n\nAdministratively, Haiti is divided into ten departments. The departments are listed below, with the departmental capital cities in parentheses.\n\nThe departments are further divided into 42 arrondissements, 145 communes and 571 communal sections. These serve as, respectively, second- and third-level administrative divisions.\n\nHaiti's purchasing power parity GDP fell 8% in 2010 (from US$12.15 billion to US$11.18 billion) and the GDP per capita remained unchanged at PPP US$1,200. Despite having a viable tourist industry, Haiti is one of the world's poorest countries and the poorest in the Americas region, with poverty, corruption, poor infrastructure, lack of health care and lack of education cited as the main causes. Trade declined dramatically after the 2010 earthquake and subsequent outbreak of cholera. Haiti ranked 145 of 182 countries in the 2010 United Nations Human Development Index, with 57.3% of the population being deprived in at least three of the HDI's poverty measures.\n\nFollowing the disputed 2000 election and accusations about President Aristide's rule, US aid to the Haitian government was cut off between 2001 and 2004. After Aristide's departure in 2004, aid was restored and the Brazilian army led a United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti peacekeeping operation. After almost four years of recession, the economy grew by 1.5% in 2005. In September 2009, Haiti met the conditions set out by the IMF and World Bank's Heavily Indebted Poor Countries program to qualify for cancellation of its external debt.\n\nMore than 90 percent of the government's budget comes from an agreement with Petrocaribe, a Venezuela-led oil alliance.\n\nHaiti received more than US$4 billion in aid from 1990 to 2003, including US$1.5 billion from the United States.\n\nThe largest donor is the US, followed by Canada and the European Union. In January 2010, following the earthquake, US President Barack Obama promised US$1.15 billion in assistance. European Union nations pledged more than €400 million (US$616 million).\n\nNeighboring Dominican Republic has also provided extensive humanitarian aid to Haiti, including the funding and construction of a public university, human capital, free healthcare services in the border region, and logistical support after the 2010 earthquake.\n\nAccording to the UN Office of the Special Envoy for Haiti, , of humanitarian funding committed or disbursed by bilateral and multilateral donors in 2010 and 2011, only 1% has been pledged to the Haitian government.\n\nAccording to the 2013 CIA \"World Factbook\", the 2010 Haiti earthquake inflicted an estimated US$7.8 billion in damage and caused the country's GDP to contract.\n\nThe United Nations states that in total US$13.34 billion has been earmarked for the crisis through 2020, though two years after the 2010 quake, less than half of that amount had actually been released, according to UN documents. , the US government has allocated US$4 billion, US$3 billion has already been spent, and the rest is dedicated to longer-term projects.\nFormer US President Bill Clinton's foundation contributed US$250,000 to a recycling initiative for a sister-program of \"Ranmase Lajan\" or \"Picking Up Money\" by use of reverse vending machines.\n\nAccording to the 2015 CIA World Factbook, Haiti's main import partners are: Dominican Republic 35%, US 26.8%, Netherlands Antilles 8.7%, China 7% (est. 2013). Haiti's main export partner is the US 83.5% (est. 2013).\n\nHaiti had a trade deficit of US$3 billion in 2011, or 41% of GDP.\n\nIn 1925, the city of Jacmel was the first area in the Caribbean to have electricity and was subsequently dubbed the \"City of Light\".\n\nToday, Haiti relies heavily on an oil alliance with Petrocaribe for much of its energy requirements. In recent years, hydroelectric, solar and wind energy have been explored as possible sustainable energy sources.\n\nOn October 31, 2018, Evenson Calixte, the General Director of energy regulation (ANARSE) announced the 24 hour electricity project. To meet this objective, 236 Megawatt needs to installed in Port-au-Prince alone, with an additional 75 Megawatt needed in all other regions in the country. Presently only 27,5% of the population has access to electricity; moreover, the national energy agency l'Électricité d'Haïti (Ed'H) is only able to meet 62% of overall electricity demand said Fritz Caillot, the Minister of Public Works, Transportation and Communication (Travaux publics, transport et communication (TPTC)).\n\n\"The World Factbook\" reports a shortage of skilled labor, widespread unemployment and underemployment, saying \"more than two-thirds of the labor force do not have formal jobs.\" It is also often stated that three-quarters of the population lives on US$2 or less per day.\n\n\"The World Factbook\" also states that \"remittances are the primary source of foreign exchange, equaling one-fifth (20%) of GDP and representing more than five times the earnings from exports in 2012\". This implies that remittances are the life-blood of the Haitian economy.\n\nThe World Bank estimates that over 80% of college graduates from Haiti were living abroad in 2004.\n\nHaiti's economy was severely impacted by the 2010 Haiti earthquake which occurred on 12 January 2010, killing over 300,000 and displacing 1.5 million residents.\n\nIn rural areas, people often live in wooden huts with corrugated iron roofs. Outhouses are located in back of the huts. In Port-au-Prince, colorful shantytowns surround the central city and go up the mountainsides.\n\nThe middle and upper classes live in suburbs, or in the central part of the bigger cities in apartments, where there is urban planning. Many of the houses they live in are like miniature fortresses, located behind walls embedded with metal spikes, barbed wire, broken glass, and sometimes all three. The gates to these houses are barred at night, the house is locked; guard dogs patrol the yard. These houses are often self-sufficient as well. The houses have backup generators, because the electrical grid in Haiti is unreliable. Some even have rooftop reservoirs for water, as the water supply is also unreliable.\n\nHaiti is the world's leading producer of vetiver, a root plant used to make luxury perfumes, essential oils and fragrances, providing for half the world's supply. Half of all Haitians work in the agricultural sector. Haiti relies upon imports for half its food needs and 80% of its rice.\n\nHaiti exports crops such as mangoes, cacao, coffee, papayas, mahogany nuts, spinach, and watercress. Agricultural products comprise 6% of all exports. In addition, local agricultural products include corn, beans, cassava, sweet potato, peanuts, pistachios, bananas, millet, pigeon peas, sugarcane, rice, sorghum, and wood.\n\nThe Haitian gourde (HTG) is the national currency. The \"Haitian dollar\" equates to 5 gourdes (\"goud\"), which is a fixed exchange rate that exists in concept \"only,\" but are commonly used as informal prices.\n\nThe vast majority of the business sector and individuals in Haiti will also accept US dollars, though at the outdoor markets gourdes may be preferred. Locals may refer to the USD as \"dollar américain\" (\"dola ameriken\") or \"dollar US\" (pronounced \"oo-es\").\n\nIn 2014, the country received 1,250,000 tourists (mostly from cruise ships), and the industry generated US$200 million in 2014. In December 2014, the US State Department issued a travel warning about the country, noting that while thousands of American citizens safely visit Haiti each year, a few foreign tourists had been victims of burglary, predominantly in the Port-au-Prince area. Port-au-Prince used to be known for its docks where boats and shoppers would come and go with goods, but this is also where the 2010 earthquake struck the hardest and now the poverty struck city and people are still attempting to recover.\n\nSeveral hotels were opened in 2014, including an upscale Best Western Premier, a five-star Royal Oasis hotel by Occidental Hotel and Resorts in Pétion-Ville, a four-star Marriott Hotel in the Turgeau area of Port-au-Prince and other new hotel developments in Port-au-Prince, Les Cayes, Cap-Haïtien and Jacmel. Other tourist destinations include Île-à-Vache, Camp-Perrin, Pic Macaya.\n\nThe Haitian Carnival has been one of the most popular carnivals in the Caribbean. In 2010, the government decided to stage the event in a different city outside Port-au-Prince every year in an attempt to decentralize the country. The National Carnival usually held in one of the country's largest cities (i.e., Port-au-Prince, Cap-Haïtien or Les Cayes) follows the also very popular Jacmel Carnival, which takes place a week earlier in February or March.\n\nOn 21 October 2012, Haitian President Michel Martelly, US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Bill Clinton, Richard Branson, Ben Stiller and Sean Penn inaugurated the Caracol industrial park, the largest in the Caribbean. Costing US$300 million, the project, which includes a 10-megawatt power plant, a water-treatment plant and worker housing, is intended to transform the northern part of the country by creating 65,000 jobs.\n\nThe park is part of a \"master plan\" for Haiti's North and North-East departments, including the expansion of the Cap-Haitien International Airport to accommodate large international flights, the construction of an international Seaport in Fort-Liberté and the opening of the $50 million Roi Henri Christophe Campus of a new university in Limonade (near Cap-Haitien) on 12 January 2012.\n\nSouth Korean clothing manufacturer Sae-A Trading Co. Ltd, one of the park's main tenants, has created 5,000 permanent jobs out of the 20,000 projected and has built 8,600 houses in the surrounding area for its workers. The industrial park ultimately has the potential to create as many as 65,000 jobs once fully developed.\n\nHaiti has two main highways that run from one end of the country to the other. The northern highway, Route Nationale No. 1 (National Highway One), originates in Port-au-Prince, winding through the coastal towns of Montrouis and Gonaïves, before reaching its terminus at the northern port Cap-Haïtien. The southern highway, Route Nationale No. 2, links Port-au-Prince with Les Cayes via Léogâne and Petit-Goâve.\n\nAccording to the Washington Post, \"Officials from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers said Saturday [23 January 2010] that they assessed the damage from the [12 January] quake in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, and found that many of the roads aren't any worse than they were before because they've always been in poor condition.\"\n\nThe port at Port-au-Prince, Port international de Port-au-Prince, has more registered shipping than any of the other dozen ports in the country. The port's facilities include cranes, large berths, and warehouses, but these facilities are not in good condition. The port is underused, possibly due to the substantially high port fees. The port of Saint-Marc is currently the preferred port of entry for consumer goods coming into Haiti. Reasons for this may include its location away from volatile and congested Port-au-Prince, as well as its central location relative to numerous Haitian cities.\n\nDuring the 2010 earthquake, the Port-au-Prince port suffered widespread damage, impeding aid to the victims. The main pier caved in and fell into the water. One of the main cranes also collapsed in the water. Port access roads were severely damaged as well.\n\nIn the past, Haiti used rail transport, however the rail infrastructure was poorly maintained when in use and cost of rehabilitation is beyond the means of the Haitian economy.\n\nToussaint Louverture International Airport, located North/North East of Port-au-Prince proper in the commune of Tabarre, is the primary transportation hub regarding entry and exit into the country. It has Haiti's main jetway, and along with Cap-Haïtien International Airport located near the northern city of Cap-Haïtien, handles the vast majority of the country's international flights. Cities such as Jacmel, Jérémie, Les Cayes, and Port-de-Paix have smaller, less accessible airports that are serviced by regional airlines and private aircraft. Such companies include: Caribintair (defunct), Sunrise Airways and Tortug' Air (defunct).\n\nIn 2013, plans for the development of an international airport on Île-à-Vache were introduced by the Prime Minister.\n\nTap tap buses are colorfully painted buses or pick-up trucks that serve as share taxis. The \"tap tap\" name comes from the sound of passengers tapping on the metal bus body to indicate they want off. These vehicles for hire are often privately owned and extensively decorated. They follow fixed routes, do not leave until filled with passengers, and riders can usually disembark at any point. The decorations are a typically Haitian form of art.\n\nIn August 2013, the first coach bus prototype was made in Haiti.\n\nIn Haiti, communications include the radio, television, fixed and mobile telephones, and the Internet. Haiti ranked last among North American countries in the World Economic Forum's Network Readiness Index (NRI) an indicator for determining the development level of a country's information and communication technologies. Haiti ranked number 143 out of 148 overall in the 2014 NRI ranking, down from 141 in 2013.\n\nHaiti faces key challenges in the water supply and sanitation\nsector:\nNotably, access to public services is very low, their quality is inadequate and public institutions remain very weak despite foreign aid and the government's declared intent to strengthen the sector's institutions. Foreign and Haitian NGOs play an important role in the sector, especially in rural and urban slum areas.\n\nHaiti's population was about /1e6 round 0 million according to UN estimates, with half of the population younger than age 20. In 1950 the first formal census gave a total population of 3.1 million. Haiti averages approximately 350 people per square kilometer (~900 per sq mi.), with its population concentrated most heavily in urban areas, coastal plains, and valleys.\n\nMost modern Haitians are descendants of former black African slaves, including Mulattoes who are mixed-race. The remainder are of European or Arab descent, the descendants of settlers (colonial remnants and contemporary immigration during World War I and World War II). Haitians of East Asian descent or East Indian origin number approximately 400+.\n\nMillions of Haitians live abroad in the United States, Dominican Republic, Cuba, Canada (primarily Montreal), Bahamas, France, French Antilles, the Turks and Caicos, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Venezuela, Brazil, Suriname and French Guiana. There are an estimated 881,500 in the United States, 800,000 in the Dominican Republic, 300,000 in Cuba, 100,000 in Canada, 80,000 in France, and up to 80,000 in the Bahamas. There are also smaller Haitian communities in many other countries, including Chile, Switzerland, Japan and Australia.\n\nIn 2017, the life expectancy at birth was 64 years.\n\nThe gene pool of Haiti is about 95.5% Sub-Saharan African, 4.3% European, with the rest showing some traces of East Asian genes; according to a 2010 autosomal genealogical DNA testing.\n\nA 2012 genetic study on Haitian and Jamaican Y-chromosomal ancestry has revealed that both populations \"exhibit a predominantly Sub-Saharan paternal component, with haplogroups A1b-V152, A3-M32, B2-M182, E1a-M33, E1b1a-M2, E2b-M98, and R1b2-V88\" comprising (77.2%) of the Haitian and (66.7%) of Jamaican paternal gene pools. Y Chromosomes indicative of European ancestry \"(i.e., haplogroups G2a*-P15, I-M258, R1b1b-M269, and T-M184) were detected at commensurate levels in Haiti (20.3%) and Jamaica (18.9%)\".\nThis corresponds to approximately 1 in every 5 Paternal ancestors, hailing from Europe.\nWhile, Y-haplogroups indicative of Chinese O-M175 (3.8%) and Indian H-M69 (0.6%) and L-M20 (0.6%) ancestry were found at significant levels in Jamaica, Levantine Y-haplogroups were found in Haiti.\n\nAccording to a 2008 study examining the frequency of the Duffy antigen receptor for Chemokines (DARC) Single Nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), (75%) of Haitian women sampled exhibited the CC genotype (absent among women of European ancestry) at levels comparable to US African-Americans (73%), but more than Jamaican females (63%).\n\nDue to the racial caste system instituted in colonial Haiti, Haitian mulattoes became the nation's social elite and racially privileged. Numerous leaders throughout Haiti's history have been mulattoes. Comprising 5% of the nation's population, mulattoes have retained their preeminence, evident in the political, economic, social and cultural hierarchy in Haiti. During this time, the slaves and the affranchis were given limited opportunities toward education, income, and occupations, but even after gaining independence, the social structure remains a legacy today as the disparity between the upper and lower classes have not been reformed significantly since the colonial days. As a result, the elite class today consists of a small group of influential people who are generally light in color and continue to establish themselves in high, prestigious positions. Alexandre Pétion, born to a Haitian mother and a wealthy French father, was the first President of the Republic of Haiti.\n\nThe 2017 CIA Factbook reported that around 54.7% of Haitians profess to being Catholics while Protestants made up about 28.5% of the population (Baptist 15.4%, Pentecostal 7.9%, Seventh-day Adventist 3%, Methodist 1.5%, other 0.7%). Other sources put the Protestant population higher than this, suggesting that it might have formed one-third of the population in 2001. Like other countries in Latin America, Haiti has witnessed a general Protestant expansion, which is largely Evangelical and Pentecostal in nature. Haitian Cardinal Chibly Langlois is president of the National Bishops Conference of the Catholic Church.\n\nVodou, a religion with African roots similar to those of Cuba and Brazil, originated during colonial times in which slaves were obliged to disguise their loa or spirits as Roman Catholic saints, an element of a process called syncretism and is still practiced by some Haitians today. Due to the religious syncretism between Catholicism and Vodou, it is difficult to estimate the number of Vodouists in Haiti.\n\nMinority religions in Haiti include Islam, Bahá'í Faith, Judaism, and Buddhism.\n\nThe two official languages of Haiti are French and Haitian Creole. French is the principal written and administratively authorized language (as well as the main language of the press) and is spoken by 42% of Haitians. It is spoken by all educated Haitians, is the medium of instruction in most schools, and is used in the business sector. It is also used in ceremonial events such as weddings, graduations and church Masses. Haiti is one of two independent nations in the Americas (along with Canada) to designate French as an official language; the other French-speaking areas are all overseas \"départements\", or \"collectivités,\" of France.\n\nHaitian Creole, which has recently undergone a standardization, is spoken by virtually the entire population of Haiti. Haitian Creole is one of the French-based creole languages. Its vocabulary is 90% derived from French, but its grammar resembles that of some West African languages. It also has influences from Taino, Spanish, and Portuguese. Haitian Creole is related to the other French creoles, but most closely to the Antillean Creole and Louisiana Creole variants.\nEmigrants from Haiti have constituted a segment of American and Canadian society since before the independence of Haiti from France in 1804.\n\nMany influential early American settlers and black freemen, including Jean Baptiste Point du Sable and W. E. B. Du Bois, were of Haitian origin.\n\nJean Baptiste Point du Sable, an immigrant from Saint-Domingue (now the Republic of Haiti), founded the first nonindigenous settlement in what is now Chicago, Illinois, the third largest city in the United States. The state of Illinois and city of Chicago declared du Sable the founder of Chicago on 26 October 1968.\n\nHaiti has a rich and unique cultural identity, consisting of a large blend of traditional customs of French and African, mixed with sizeable contributions from the Spanish and indigenous Taíno cultures. The country's customs essentially are a blend of cultural beliefs that derived from the various ethnic groups that inhabited the island of Hispaniola. Haiti's culture is greatly reflected in its paintings, music, and literature. Galleries and museums in the United States and France have exhibited the works of the better-known artists to have come out of Haiti.\n\nHaitian art is distinctive, particularly through its paintings and sculptures, known for its various artistic expressions. Brilliant colors, naïve perspectives, and sly humor characterize Haitian art. Frequent subjects in Haitian art include big, delectable foods, lush landscapes, market activities, jungle animals, rituals, dances, and gods. Artists frequently paint in fables. People are disguised as animals and animals are transformed into people.\n\nAs a result of a deep history and strong African ties, symbols take on great meaning within Haitian society. For example, a rooster often represents Aristide and the red and blue colors of the Haitian flag often represent his Lavalas party. Many artists cluster in 'schools' of painting, such as the Cap-Haïtien school, which features depictions of daily life in the city, the Jacmel School, which reflects the steep mountains and bays of that coastal town, or the Saint-Soleil School, which is characterized by abstracted human forms and is heavily influenced by Vodou symbolism.\n\nHaitian music combines a wide range of influences drawn from the many people who have settled on this Caribbean island. It reflects French, African rhythms, Spanish elements and others who have inhabited the island of Hispaniola and minor native Taino influences. Styles of music unique to the nation of Haiti include music derived from Vodou ceremonial traditions, Rara parading music, Twoubadou \"ballads\", mini-jazz rock bands, Rasin movement, Hip hop kreyòl, méringue, and compas. Youth attend parties at nightclubs called \"discos\", (pronounced \"deece-ko\"), and attend \"Bal\". This term is the French word for ball, as in a formal dance.\n\n\"Compas (konpa)\" (also known as \"compas direct\" in French, or \"konpa dirèk\" in creole) is a complex, ever-changing music that arose from African rhythms and European ballroom dancing, mixed with Haiti's bourgeois culture. It is a refined music, with méringue as its basic rhythm. Haiti had no recorded music until 1937 when Jazz Guignard was recorded non-commercially.\n\nHaiti has always been a literary nation that has produced poetry, novels, and plays of international recognition. The French colonial experience established the French language as the venue of culture and prestige, and since then it has dominated the literary circles and the literary production. However, since the 18th century there has been a sustained effort to write in Haitian Creole. The recognition of Creole as an official language has led to an expansion of novels, poems, and plays in Creole. In 1975, Franketienne was the first to break with the French tradition in fiction with the publication of \"Dezafi,\" the first novel written entirely in Haitian Creole. The work offers a poetic picture of Haitian life.\n\nHaiti is famous for its creole cuisine (which related to Cajun cuisine), and its soup joumou.\nHaiti is also known globally for its rum Barbancourt which is internationally renowned, and the most popular alcoholic beverage in Haiti.\n\nMonuments include the Sans-Souci Palace and the Citadelle Laferrière, inscribed as a World Heritage site in 1982. Situated in the Northern Massif du Nord, in one of Haiti's National Parks, the structures date from the early 19th century. The buildings were among the first built after Haiti's independence from France.\n\nThe Citadelle Laferrière, is the largest fortress in the Americas, is located in northern Haiti. It was built between 1805 and 1820 and is today referred to by some Haitians as the eighth wonder of the world.\n\nJacmel, a colonial city that was tentatively accepted as a World Heritage site, was extensively damaged by the 2010 Haiti earthquake.\n\nThe anchor of Christopher Columbus' largest ship, the \"Santa María\" now rests in the Musée du Panthéon National Haïtien (MUPANAH), in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.\n\nHaiti is known for its folklore traditions. The country has tales that are part of the Haitian Vodou tradition.\n\nThe most festive time of the year in Haiti is during Carnival (referred to as \"Kanaval\" in Haitian Creole or Mardi Gras) in February. There is music, parade floats, and dancing and singing in the streets. Carnival week is traditionally a time of all-night parties.\n\nRara is a festival celebrated before Easter. The festival has generated a style of Carnival music.\n\nFootball is the most popular sport in Haiti with hundreds of small football clubs competing at the local level. Basketball is growing in popularity. Stade Sylvio Cator is the multi-purpose stadium in Port-au-Prince, where it is currently used mostly for association football matches that fits a capacity of 10,000 people. In 1974, the Haiti national football team were only the second Caribbean team to make the World Cup (after Cuba's entry in 1938). They lost in the opening qualifying stages against three of the pre-tournament favorites; Italy, Poland, and Argentina. The national team won the 2007 Caribbean Nations Cup.\n\nHaiti has participated in the Olympic Games since the year 1900 and won a number of medals. Haitian footballer Joe Gaetjens played for the United States national team in the 1950 FIFA World Cup, scoring the winning goal in the 1–0 upset of England.\n\nThe educational system of Haiti is based on the French system. Higher education, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, is provided by universities and other public and private institutions.\n\nMore than 80% of primary schools are privately managed by nongovernmental organizations, churches, communities, and for-profit operators, with minimal government oversight. According to the 2013 Millennium Development Goals (MDG) Report, Haiti has steadily boosted net enrollment rate in primary education from 47% in 1993 to 88% in 2011, achieving equal participation of boys and girls in education. Charity organizations, including Food for the Poor and Haitian Health Foundation, are building schools for children and providing necessary school supplies.\nAccording to CIA 2015 World Factbook, Haiti's literacy rate is now 60.7% (est. 2015).\n\nThe January 2010 earthquake, was a major setback for education reform in Haiti as it diverted limited resources to survival.\n\nMany reformers have advocated the creation of a free, public and universal education system for all primary school-age students in Haiti. The Inter-American Development Bank estimates that the government will need at least US$3 billion to create an adequately funded system.\n\nUpon successful graduation of secondary school, students may continue into higher education. The higher education schools in Haiti include the University of Haiti. There are also medical schools and law schools offered at both the University of Haiti and abroad. Presently, Brown University is cooperating with L'Hôpital Saint-Damien in Haiti to coordinate a pediatric health care curriculum.\n\nIn the past, children's vaccination rates have been low , 60% of the children in Haiti under the age of 10 were vaccinated, compared to rates of childhood vaccination in other countries in the 93–95% range. Recently there have been mass vaccination campaigns claiming to vaccinate as many as 91% of a target population against specific diseases (measles and rubella in this case). Most people have no transportation or access to Haitian hospitals.\n\nThe World Health Organization cites diarrheal diseases, HIV/AIDS, meningitis, and respiratory infections as common causes of death in Haiti. Ninety percent of Haiti's children suffer from waterborne diseases and intestinal parasites. HIV infection is found in 1.71% of Haiti's population (est. 2015). The incidence of tuberculosis (TB) in Haiti is more than ten times as high as in the rest of Latin America. Approximately 30,000 Haitians fall ill with malaria each year.\n\nMost people living in Haiti are at high risk for major infectious diseases. Food or water-borne diseases include bacterial and protozoal diarrhea, typhoid fever and hepatitis A and E; common vector-borne diseases are dengue fever and malaria; water-contact diseases include leptospirosis. Roughly 75% of Haitian households lack running water. Unsafe water, along with inadequate housing and unsanitary living conditions, contributes to the high incidence of infectious diseases. There is a chronic shortage of health care personnel and hospitals lack resources, a situation that became readily apparent after the January 2010 earthquake. The infant mortality rate in Haiti in 2013 was 55 deaths per 1,000 live births, compared to a rate of 6 per 1,000 in other countries.\n\nAfter the 2010 earthquake, Partners In Health founded the Hôpital Universitaire de Mirebalais, the largest solar-powered hospital in the world.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18368654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18368654", "title": "Hong Kong people in the United Kingdom", "text": "Hong Kong people in the United Kingdom\n\nHong Kong people in the United Kingdom are people from Hong Kong who are residing in the United Kingdom or British citizens of Hong Kong origin or descent.\n\nThe United Kingdom has historically been a popular destination for Hong Kong immigrants due to the colonial relationship between the two countries. The UK's popularity among immigrants was also helped by the fact that the English language enjoys official status in both countries. While many Hong Kong-born residents of the UK are ethnically Chinese, others include the children of colonial parentage (British and/or other European heritage, and people with ancestries from other parts of the former British colonial empire) born in Hong Kong prior to the transfer of sovereignty to China in 1997.\n\nThe 2001 Census recorded 96,445 Hong Kong-born people residing in the United Kingdom. Office for National Statistics estimates suggest that the Hong Kong-born resident population was 78,000 in 2009. These figures would have excluded people who were born elsewhere, yet raised in and emigrated to the UK from HK, and descendants of Hongkongers born within the UK.\n\nAccording to census data, the number of people born in Hong Kong living in Scotland in 2001 was 7,068. The figure for 1991 was 5,910.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32959774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32959774", "title": "Institute of National Studies of Tiaret", "text": "Institute of National Studies of Tiaret\n\nThe Institute of National Studies is an institute located in Tiaret, Algeria. Its library holds 25,000 volumes.\n"}
{"id": "33323571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33323571", "title": "Kraljeva hči", "text": "Kraljeva hči\n\nKraljeva hči is a novel by Slovenian author Igor Škamperle. It was first published in 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "54457413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54457413", "title": "Marshal of the Mongolian People's Republic", "text": "Marshal of the Mongolian People's Republic\n\nMarshal of the Mongolian People's Republic (Mongolian:Бүгд Найрамдах Монгол Ард Улсын маршал) was the highest rank in the Mongolian People's Army of the Mongolian People's Republic. \nThe position was established in 1936 after Khorloogiin Choibalsan and Gelegdorjiin Demid were appointed marshals in 1936.\n\n"}
{"id": "2384554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384554", "title": "Matilda FitzRoy, Abbess of Montvilliers", "text": "Matilda FitzRoy, Abbess of Montvilliers\n\nMaud, Abbess of Montivilliers was a natural daughter of Henry I of England by an unknown mistress. She is not to be confused with Isabel, another illegitimate daughter of Henry I by his mistress Isabel de Beaumont (c. 1102 – c. 1172), herself a sister of Robert de Beaumont, 2nd Earl of Leicester.\n\nMaud (or Mathilda) was a half-sister of the Empress Matilda, who agreed to work with her. She may have valued her company and advice. \n\nMatilda became the abbess of the Abbey Church of Notre-Dame, Montivilliers, and for that reason is best known as Maud of Montivilliers.\n"}
{"id": "41247029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41247029", "title": "Moldova in the Turkvision Song Contest", "text": "Moldova in the Turkvision Song Contest\n\nThe participation of Moldova in the Turkvision Song Contest was expected to begin in Istanbul, Turkey, at the Turkvision Song Contest 2016. The national broadcaster responsible for the selection process of Moldova's participants has yet to be known. Moldova had selected Polina Stefoglo with her song \"Yallah Yallah!\", as their debut entry. However, the 2016 contest was subsequently cancelled due to the December 2016 Istanbul bombings.\n\nTurkvision is an annual song contest which was created by TÜRKSOY in cooperation with the Turkish music channel TMB TV. Based on the similar format of the Eurovision Song Contest, Turkvision focuses primarily on participating Turkic countries and regions. The participating countries and regions have to take part in the Semi Final. A juror from each nation awards between 1 and 10 points for every entry, except their own. An amount of 12 to 15 nations qualify for the Grand Final where the jury determines the winner. TÜRKSOY has stated that televoting is going to be introduced in the future. Unlike the Eurovision Song Contest in which the winning country proceeds to host the following year's event, hosting of the Turkvision Song Contest takes place in the country or region that is also hosting the Turkish Capital of Culture.\n\nOn 25 November 2016, it was announced that Moldova would be making their Turkvision debut at the 2016 edition, and had internally selected Polina Stefoglo, while her song was revealed to be sung in Turkish. On 5 December 2016, Stefoglo's song was revealed to be called \"Yallah Yallah!\" However, it was later confirmed that both of the 2016 contests had been cancelled due to the December 2016 Istanbul bombings.\n\nFollowing the cancellation of the Turkvision Song Contest 2016, it was confirmed by the Ministry of Culture and Sports in Kazakhstan, that the 2017 edition would take place in Astana, Kazakhstan, and would coincide with other events taking place in the city as part of Expo 2017. The contest was originally going to be held at the Barys Arena, with the two semi-finals taking place on 8 and 9 September, and the final on 10 September 2017. However, on 27 March 2017, it was announced that the dates and venue had subsequently been changed, with the Saryarka Velodrome as the new venue, and the contest itself taking place on 29 and 31 August 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26065852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26065852", "title": "Nativity Church, Căușeni", "text": "Nativity Church, Căușeni\n\nThe Church of Assumption of Our Lady, Căuşeni () is a historical monument in Căuşeni, Moldova.\n\nThe church was painted in 1763 by Stanciul Radu şi Voicul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3114977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3114977", "title": "Palestine Liberation Army", "text": "Palestine Liberation Army\n\nThe Palestine Liberation Army (PLA, , Jaysh al-Tahrir al-Filastini) was ostensibly set up as the military wing of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) at the 1964 Arab League summit held in Alexandria, Egypt, with the mission of fighting Israel. However, it has never been under effective PLO control, but rather it has been controlled by its various host governments, usually Syria.\n\nImmediately after its creation at the 1964 Arab League summit in Alexandria, the PLO (then headed by Ahmad Shukeiri) was effectively under the control of the Arab states, especially Nasser's Egypt. The Palestinians would not gain independent control of the organization until Yasser Arafat's Fatah faction wrested it from Nasser-backed Palestinians in 1968–69, when the Arab states were discredited by losing the Six-Day War, and militant Palestinian organizations were rapidly gaining in importance.\n\nThe PLA was originally organized into three brigades, named after historic battles:\n\nThese brigades were staffed by Palestinian refugees under the control of the host countries, who would perform their military service in these units instead of in their host countries' regular armed forces. Formally, the PLA was under the command of the PLO's Military Department, but in practice, none of the governments involved relinquished control of the brigades.\n\nIn 1968, the Popular Liberation Forces (Arabic: \"quwwat at-tahrir ash-sha'biyya\"), better known as the \"Yarmouk Brigade\", were established within the framework of the PLA to perform commando actions against Israeli forces in the Gaza Strip, occupied by Israeli forces the year before. Generally the PLA refrained from this kind of underground action, having been built up as something of a conventional military parade showpiece.\n\nAt its largest, the PLA comprised eight brigades with a total of some 12,000 uniformed soldiers. They were equipped with small-arms, mortars, rocket launchers, wheeled BTR-152 armored personnel carriers and T-34/85 tanks. However, the PLA was never deployed in the form of a single fighting unit for the PLO, but instead battalion-size elements were utilized as an auxiliary force by its controller governments.\n\nAfter its foundation, the PLA came to be used as political cover by its host governments, especially Syria. In course of the Black September of 1970, hastily repainted Syrian Army tanks under the command of the PLA were sent into Jordan to aid the Palestinian guerrillas against the Jordanian Armed Forces, probably with the ultimate aim to overthrow the Jordanian monarchy. Although the initial invasion was successful, with PLA forces capturing Irbid and declaring it a \"liberated\" city, the Jordanian military eventually managed to stall the attack in course of heavy fighting. After international pressure, and threats of intervention from both Israel and the United States, the combined PLA-Syrian forces were forced to turn back; an embarrassment which would contribute greatly to the overthrow of the government of Salah Jadid by Hafez al-Assad. The failure of the invasion has also attributed to the fact that the Syrian Air Force under al-Assad had refused to enter the fighting in the first place.\n\nDuring the Lebanese Civil War, Syria likewise made extensive use of the PLA as a proxy force, including against the PLO (the PLA however proved unreliable when ordered to fight other Palestinians, and suffered from mass defections). The PLA was largely destroyed as a fighting force during the 1982 Israeli invasion of southern Lebanon that started the 1982 Lebanon War. Its fighters in Lebanon left for Tunis when the PLO evacuated Beirut that year, in a US-sponsored cease fire agreement. The Egyptian PLA was also deployed in Lebanon in 1976, after Palestinian leader Yassir Arafat had approached the Egyptian president Anwar Sadat, to mend relations damaged by Sadat's peacemaking attempts with Israel. Still, the Egyptian units never proved as important as the fully deployed Syrian PLA.\n\nMany PLA soldiers in Egypt and Jordan later became the core of the Palestinian Authority's (PNA) National Guard, after the signing of the 1993 Oslo Accords, when they were allowed to enter the Palestinian Territories to take up positions in the PNA security services. \n\nThe Syrian PLA remains active, closely coordinated with the Syrian-controlled as-Sa'iqa faction of the PLO, although the importance of both had diminished over the years. The PLA has been rebuilt and Palestinians in Syria are still drafted to perform their military service in its ranks. Though completely staffed by Palestinians, it remains outside of the PLO's control, and is in effect integrated into the Syrian Army. Nevertheless, it poses as an independent entity, and occasionally organizes pro-government rallies celebrating Syrian commitment to the Palestinian cause. With the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War, the PLA sided with the government and began to fight against the Syrian opposition. Led by Major General Muhammad Tariq al-Khadra, the PLA has taken part in campaigns in the Rif Dimashq, Daraa, and Quneitra Governorates. In early 2015, several PLA officers and fighters were reportedly executed for refusing to fight against rebels in Daraa. Around 228 PLA fighters have been killed in action by September 2017; one of the highest ranking fatalities being a brigadier general, Anwar al-Saqa.\n\nSimilar Organizations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45205293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45205293", "title": "Pseudomyxoma Survivor", "text": "Pseudomyxoma Survivor\n\nPseudomyxoma Survivor is a global charity (non-profit) which supports and advises patients suffering from pseudomyxoma peritonei. It is registered with the Charity Commission for England and Wales as charity number 1143642 and provides specialist health care information and financial support to people affected by pseudomyxoma peritonei.\n\nThe charity is listed by Macmillan Cancer Support as the primary support route for pseudomyxoma peritonei and is also recognised by the UK National Health Service and by Cancer Research UK as a useful source of information and support for their patients.\n\nThe charity is a member of the European Organisation for Rare Diseases, a non-governmental umbrella organisation which promotes research on rare diseases.\n\nThe patron of the charity is Sean Hepburn-Ferrer, the son of Audrey Hepburn who died of pseudomyxoma peritonei in 1993. Sean was recently successfully nominated by the charity as 'rare disease day ambassador' for 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "44498549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44498549", "title": "Pukhraj Bafna", "text": "Pukhraj Bafna\n\nPukhraj Bafna is an Indian pediatrician and adolescent health consultant, known for his contributions towards tribal child and adolescent health. The Government of India honored Bafna in 2011, with the fourth highest civilian award of Padma Shri.\n\nPukhraj Bafna was born on 14 November 1946 at Rajnandgaon, in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh. He graduated in medicine (MBBS) in 1969 from Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College, Jabalpur and continued his studies there to obtain the medical degrees of DCh (1972) and MD (1973) in pediatrics. He has also obtained a doctoral degree from Jain Vishva Bharati University, Ladnun.\n\nBafna is credited with a book, \"Status of Tribal Child Health in India\". He has also been writing health column for over 40 years (since 1973) in \"Sabera Sanket,\" a Hindi language newspaper. He has also attended several seminars and has chaired many conferences.\n\nPukhraj Bafna has conducted over 500 child health camps and has supported 149 orphaned children in Bastar whose parents lost their lives due to militancy in the area. He lives in Rajnandgaon, Chhattisgarh.\n\nPukhraj Bafna is a recipient of the National C. T. Thakkar Award of the Indian Medical Association in 1978 and the Becon International Award in 1986. He has also received the Mahaveer Mahatma Award from the Times of India group and the Academic Excellence Award from the Indian Academy of Pediatrics, both in 2004. Jain Vishva Bharati University Rajasthan and the Government of Kerala have honored Bafna with citations. In 2011, The Government of India included him in the list of Republic day honours for the award of Padma Shri.\n"}
{"id": "6746953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6746953", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Banmaw", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Banmaw\n\nThe (Roman Catholic) Diocese of Banmaw () is located in the Kachin State in northwestern Myanmar. It is a suffragan diocese of the archdiocese of Mandalay.\n\nThe diocese was created on August 26, 2006 by splitting off the southern part of the Diocese of Myitkyina. On November 26 the first bishop Raymond Sumlut Gam was ordained, and the St Patrick church was elevated to the cathedral of the diocese by Archbishop Salvatore Pennacchio, Apostolic Nuncio for Myanmar.\n\nThe diocese covers an area of 10,373 km². It is subdivided into 10 parishes. 26,070 of the 450,000 people in the area belong to the Catholic Church.\n\nThe diocese covers the districts of Banmaw, Mansi, Momauk and Shwegu, all in Kachin State. Neighboring dioceses are Myitkyina to the north west and to the east, the archdiocese of Mandalay and the diocese of Taunggyi to the south.\n\n"}
{"id": "52898454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52898454", "title": "Second Chance EP", "text": "Second Chance EP\n\nSecond Chance is the first solo project by Congolese singer Icha Kavons. It was released on November 30, 2013. It is also the first EP by Icha Kavons produced by William Chebeya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26466746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26466746", "title": "Sfatul Țării Palace", "text": "Sfatul Țării Palace\n\nThe Sfatul Țării Palace is a building in Chișinău, Moldova.\n\nThe building is located near Central Chișinău. It served as a meeting place for the Sfatul Țării, the assembly which proclaimed the independence of the Moldavian Democratic Republic in 1917 then union with Romania in 1918. The building was heavily damaged in the Second World War. It is currently home to the Academy of Music, Theatre and Fine Arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2906635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2906635", "title": "SonAir", "text": "SonAir\n\nSonAir Airline Services, S.A. (), commonly known as SonAir, is a venture of the Angolan national petroleum company Sonangol Group. It provides helicopter services to Angolan oil facilities, both onshore and offshore, as well as scheduled and charter services within Africa and to the United States.\n\nDomestically they also provide air transportation to several business groups - private and government, outside the oil business. The company is also the first to provide direct transportation of passengers and cargo between Angola and the United States. Until 2018, the airline provided thrice-weekly services between Luanda (LAD) and Houston (IAH) utilizing a Boeing 747-400 (10 First Class, 143 Business Class, some of which were marketed as a Premium Economy with a lesser amenity service, and 36 Economy Class seats) operated by Atlas Air.\n\nAs of May 2018 SonAir operated scheduled flights to the following destinations:\n\n\nAs of February 2015 the Sonair fleet includes:\n\nFixed wing\n\nHelicopters:\n\nThe fleet included the following aircraft (as of August 2016):\n\n"}
{"id": "28729640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28729640", "title": "Thabang Thabong", "text": "Thabang Thabong\n\nThabang Thabong was an educational children's television programme from South Africa broadcast weekday mornings on SABC2. The programme featured a mixture of human and puppet characters plus some animation. It is no longer aired by SABC.\n\nThe programme revolves around Tumi, a woman who lives in a house in Thabang Thabong with a four-year-old girl Tandi, and two meerkats Tiki and Toko. Tumi is the teacher, and also the parental figure of the program. The characters have adventures, sing songs, read books and do dances and exercises. If they have questions, they usually ask Blob, a clay animated blob, that makes shapes and objects to answer their questions because he can't speak. Once a week the flamboyant Thembi comes in with mail from fans. These letters are then read out and drawings sent in are shown.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33895574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33895574", "title": "Theater Oberhausen", "text": "Theater Oberhausen\n\nTheater Oberhausen is a theatre in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.\n"}
{"id": "36392975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36392975", "title": "USA-183", "text": "USA-183\n\nUSA-183, also known as GPS IIR-14(M), GPS IIRM-1 and GPS SVN-53, is an American navigation satellite which forms part of the Global Positioning System. It was the first of eight Block IIRM satellites to be launched, and the fourteenth of twenty one Block IIR satellites overall. It was built by Lockheed Martin, using the AS-4000 satellite bus.\n\nUSA-183 was launched at 03:37:00 UTC on 26 September 2005, atop a Delta II carrier rocket, flight number D313, flying in the 7925-9.5 configuration. The launch took place from Space Launch Complex 17A at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and placed USA-183 into a transfer orbit. The satellite raised itself into medium Earth orbit using a Star-37FM apogee motor.\n\nBy 25 November 2005, USA-183 was in an orbit with a perigee of , an apogee of , a period of 717.92 minutes, and 55 degrees of inclination to the equator. It is used to broadcast the PRN 17 signal, and operates in slot 4 of plane C of the GPS constellation. The satellite has a mass of , and a design life of 10 years. As of 2012 it remains in service.\n"}
{"id": "3029917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3029917", "title": "Äbädä", "text": "Äbädä\n\nÄbädä (; ; ) is an innocent forest spirit in Tatar mythology. It looks like an old woman. Äbädä also is represented in mythologies of Siberian peoples.\n\nÄbädä is a demon or spirit. He is a Turkic forest being, similar in nature to the İyes. He protects the birds, trees, and animals of the forest; he appears in the shape of a human with blue skin, two great horns, green hair, and a long green beard across his face, carrying a club or whip indicating his mastery of the forest.\nHe can shapeshift into many different forms. As a human, he looks like a peasant with glowing eyes, and his shoes are on backwards. Should one ever encounter an Äbädä, one must thwart him immediately by turning all one's clothes inside out and backwards, and placing one's shoes on the opposite feet.\n\n\n"}
