{"id": "23826387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23826387", "title": "1987 Daxing'anling Wildfire", "text": "1987 Daxing'anling Wildfire\n\nThe 1987 Daxing'anling Wildfire (大兴安岭特大森林火灾), also known as the May 6 Fire (5·6大火) was a major wildfire that began in the northeast Daxing'anling Prefecture Heilongjiang People's Republic of China on May 6, 1987. The burning lasted almost a month, when it was finally stopped on June 2, 1987. The fire covered about of which 6500 square kilometres was forestry. About 266 people were wounded and 211 died in the sea of fire with 50,000 left homeless. \n"}
{"id": "5139442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5139442", "title": "48th World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "48th World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 48th World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), was ConFiction, which was held in The Hague, Netherlands 23rd-27 August 1990 at the Netherlands Congress Centre. This convention was one of the two Worldcons held in continental Europe, the other being the 28th World Science Fiction Convention held in West Germany.\n\nThe guests of honour for the convention were Joe Haldeman, Wolfgang Jeschke and Harry Harrison, with Chelsea Quinn Yarbro as Toastmaster and Andrew I. Porter as Fan Guest of Honour. The organising committee was chaired by Kees van Toorn. The total membership of the convention was 3580, despite the preparations for the Gulf war which deterred many Americans from traveling.\n\nThis was the first Worldcon after the fall of the Berlin Wall, so was the first convention which many fans, writers and editors from Eastern European countries were able to attend. The convention was opened by the then Minister of Cultural Affairs of the Netherlands, and the Hugos were presented by the U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "187777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187777", "title": "572 BC", "text": "572 BC\n\nThe year 572 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 182 \"Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 572 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years. \n\n"}
{"id": "898536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=898536", "title": "602 BC", "text": "602 BC\n\nThe year 602 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 152 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 602 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\nMasedon (d. 499 BC)\nSeder Jr. (d. 588 BC)\n\n"}
{"id": "37708325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37708325", "title": "Al-Harith ibn Surayj", "text": "Al-Harith ibn Surayj\n\nAbu Hatim al-Harith ibn Surayj ibn Yazid ibn Sawa ibn Ward ibn Murra ibn Sufyan ibn Mujashi () was an Arab leader of a large-scale social rebellion against the Umayyad Caliphate in Khurasan and Transoxiana. Harith's rebellion began in 734 and represented the grievances of both the local Arab settlers as well as the native Iranian converts (\"mawali\"), who were not recognized as equal to the Arab Muslims, against the Umayyad regime. Harith based his revolt on religious grounds and won over a large part of both the Arab settlers and the native population, but failed twice to capture the provincial capital of Marw. The rebellion was finally suppressed by Asad ibn Abdallah al-Qasri in 736. Along with a few supporters, Harith escaped capture and allied himself with the heathen Turgesh. Harith accompanied the Turgesh \"khagan\" Suluk in his invasion deep into Arab territory, which was decisively beaten back in the Battle of Kharistan in 737. With Turgesh power collapsing thereafter, Harith remained in Transoxiana supported by the native princes. Asad's successor, Nasr ibn Sayyar, campaigned against Harith and his native supporters, but eventually, hoping to use him to bolster his position in the Arab intertribal rivalries, Nasr secured for Harith a pardon from the Caliph. Harith returned to Marw in 745. Soon however he raised a sizeable armed force and challenged Nasr's authority, until he was killed in a clash with his ally Juday' al-Kirmani in 746. His revolt weakened Arab power in Central Asia and facilitated the beginning of the Abbasid Revolution that would overthrow the Umayyads.\n\nHarith was from the Tamim tribe belonging to the north Arab (Mudari) tribal supergroup, and hailed from Basra, where his father, Surayj, lived. He is first mentioned in 729, when he distinguished himself for his bravery and self-sacrifice against the Turgesh, saving the Arab army from annihilation at Baykand near Bukhara. Harith is next mentioned in 733, when he led a protest in Lower Tokharistan against the commandeering of supplies from the province, already plagued by drought and famine, to feed the capital of Khurasan at Marw, by the governor Junayd ibn Abd al-Rahman al-Murri. Junayd had Harith flogged, but after Junayd died in early 734, the discontent erupted into an open rebellion, with Harith at its head.\nThe motives and nature of Harith's rebellion are debated. His public demands were phrased in religious terms, demanding the end of injustice through the \"application of the Book and the \"sunna\"\" by the government. Harith himself is said to have been a member of the obscure pietistic group known as \"Murji'a\", and to have led an ascetic life. In the words of the Arabist Meir J. Kister, he apparently had \"a feeling of mission\" and aimed to establish a \"just government resembling that of the Prophet and the first Caliphs\". His movement shared many ideological and symbolic elements with contemporary Shi'ite and Kharijite agitation directed against the Umayyad regime, including the use of black flags hearkening back to the banner of the Prophet and even the demand for theocratic rule by a member of the Prophet's family. Harith's movement was marked by an unusual idealism, however, and it is recorded that his adherents tried to persuade their opponents to join them through moral and religious invocations even during battles.\n\nHarith advocated various reforms, the most prominent being the full legal equality of the native non-Arab converts (\"mawali\") with the Arab Muslims, echoing a long-standing demand of the former, in conformity with the precepts of Islam. This had been attempted twice before, by the Caliph Umar II (r. 717–720) and by the governors Asad ibn Abdallah al-Qasri and Ashras ibn Abdallah al-Sulami, but both times the resulting rise in conversions and concomitant drop in revenue (as the numerous \"mawali\" would not have to pay the poll tax) put an end to this, leading to a first rebellion in 728 under Abu al-Sayda' Salih ibn Tarif. Many of the groups and individuals associated with this first uprising would also participate in Harith's movement. Harith was seen as a champion of the rights of the \"ʿajam\" (non-Arabs, especially Iranians), many of whom flocked to his banner, but he also had a large following from the disaffected among the Arabs themselves, especially his fellow Tamim and the Azd. Disaffection was widespread among the Khurasani Arabs due to the heavy casualties suffered against the Turgesh at the Battle of the Defile in 731, as well as the dissemination of anti-Umayyad propaganda by proto-Shi'ite groups. This was exacerbated by the resentment felt at the introduction of 20,000 Iraqi troops into the province in the aftermath of the Defile, and the parallel order of Caliph Hisham ibn Abd al-Malik (r. 723–743) to disperse the older Arab settlers from Marw to other settlements so as to improve their defence against the Turgesh.\n\nThus it was that when the news of Junayd's death reached the small town of Andkhuy in Guzgan, one of the remotest Arab outposts, the local Arab garrison followed Harith in rebellion. Junayd's successor, Asim ibn Abdallah al-Hilali, who had just arrived at Marw, tried to placate the rebels and sent emissaries to them, but Harith simply imprisoned them. As the revolt spread through the surrounding countryside, Harith, with a force of 4,000 men, marched on Balkh, the chief city of Tokharistan, held by Nasr ibn Sayyar with 10,000 troops. Although Nasr did not support Harith's movement, such was the level of disaffection among the Khurasanis that he and his men offered little opposition. Balkh was captured by Harith's men with ease, while Nasr and his troops withdrew from the scene and gave their support to neither Harith nor Asim. Soon after that, the Arab garrison at Marw al-Rudh also joined with Harith's forces. The autonomous native Hephthalite princes of Guzgan, Faryab and Talqan also seized the opportunity to join the revolt with their forces, hoping to re-establish their independence and perhaps reduce the Arab power in Khurasan to a dependent principality around Marw.\n\nHarith now turned his sights on Marw and set out for the capital, where he also had sympathizers. However, Asim managed to cement the loyalty of the wavering Khurasanis by threatening to abandon the city for Naysabur on the western fringes of Khurasan. There he would rely on the Qaysi tribesmen whose loyalty to the Umayyad regime was known, and ask for reinforcements from Syria. Coupled with the presence of the numerous natives in Harith's army, which lent it the appearance of a foreign army, the local Arab elites chose to rally behind Asim. As it neared Marw, Harith's army had swelled to some 60,000 men as the \"mawali\" flocked to his banner, according to the report of al-Tabari. Asim's force was considerably smaller, and less eager: he had to pay them extra money in order to induce them to fight. Nevertheless, he marched out of Marw and took up positions behind a canal at Zarq, destroying its bridges. As Harith's army approached and repaired the bridges, more than 2,000 Arabs from his ranks deserted to Asim, evidently mistrusting the intentions of the native troops of Harith's army. In the subsequent battle, Asim gained a major victory, as many of Harith's troops drowned in the canal. As a result of this failure, most of the \"mawali\" and native princes abandoned Harith, whose army was reduced to a loyal core of some 3,000 men. This forced Harith to accept a peace offer from Asim—who likewise could not count on the continued support of the Khurasani Arabs now that the danger from the natives had passed—and retired to Andkhuy. However, in the next year Harith renewed his revolt and marched again on Marw. Asim could not persuade the Khurasanis to fight for him, and was left with only some 1,000 Syrians and Jazirans from his personal guard. Harith's forces were not much larger either, being reduced to the garrison of Marw al-Rudh. In the ensuing battle at the village of al-Dandanqan near Marw, Asim again emerged victorious, forcing Harith to flee to Marw al-Rudh.\n\nDespite his victories, Asim's position was still perilous. He was essentially reduced to Marw and the western, Qaysi regions of Khurasan around Naysabur. In addition, as he explained in a letter to the Caliph, as a Syrian, he faced difficulty in persuading the Khurasanis and even the Iraqi troops to fight under him against one of their own. Asim further requested that Khurasan be placed under the governor of Iraq, Khalid ibn Abdallah al-Qasri, and that Syrian troops be dispatched into the province. In response, Khalid's brother Asad ibn Abdallah al-Qasri, who had already served before as governor of Khurasan, was sent to replace him. News of this, combined probably with pressure from the Khurasanis of Marw, led Asim to again conclude a truce with Harith. According to some accounts, he even agreed to join Harith in demanding from the Caliph the \"application of the Book and the \"sunna\"\", and revolt should the Caliph refuse. Shaban rejects this story altogether, but Blankinship regards it as reliable, although he too considers it a mere tactical ploy to gain time by Asim.\n\nAsad arrived in Khurasan with 20,000 Syrian troops, and immediately took the offensive against Harith. Asad's campaign was costly, but after his first successes the Khurasani Arabs began to flock to him. Asad's success was aided by his long-standing personal relations with the local Arab tribal leaders, as well as by the continuing tribal rivalries: as a Yamani opposed to the Mudari Harith, he could count on the support of his fellow tribesmen—thus most of the Rabi'ah, the traditional enemies of Harith's Tamim tribe, son defected to him. Asad divided his forces, sending the Kufan and Syrian troops under Abd al-Rahman ibn Na'yum towards Marw Rudh, where Harith's main army was located, while he himself with the Basrans and remaining Khurasanis marched on the fortresses of Amul and Zamm. The rebel forces at Amul surrendered and were pardoned, and the garrison of Balkh followed soon after. Harith himself abandoned Marw Rudh and retreated across the Oxus before Abd al-Rahman, finding refuge with the princes of Tokharistan. With their aid, he laid siege to the major crossing point over the Oxus at Tirmidh. In the face of Harith's forces, Asad's troops dared not cross the Oxus but retreated to Balkh. However, the Tirmidh garrison managed to defeat Harith, who was weakened after a quarrel with the king of Khuttal, and who now retired eastwards to the mountains of Badakhshan. Asad followed up this success by persuading the garrison of Zamm to surrender on promises of amnesty and double pay, and by an unsuccessful expedition to recover Samarqand, which had been lost in the aftermath of the Defile.\n\nIn the next year, 736, Asad's forces cleared the mountains of Upper Tokharistan from the remnants of Harith's supporters. The fortress of Tabushkhan, where many of Harith's followers and relatives had found refuge, was besieged by Juday' al-Kirmani. After they surrendered, most of the men were executed, while the rest were sold into slavery. Harith himself on the other hand continued to escape capture. In 737, Asad led his troops again north of the Oxus in a retaliatory campaign against Khuttal, whose ruler had allied himself with both Harith and the Turgesh. While the Arab troops were dispersed ravaging the countryside, the Turgesh \"khagan\" Suluk, responding to the pleas for help by the Khuttalan king, launched an attack that precipitated a headlong flight back by Asad's army across the Oxus. The Turgesh followed after them and attacked and captured the Arab baggage train on 1 October, before both sides settled for winter quarters. Harith now emerged from hiding and joined the \"khagan\".\n\nHarith now counselled the \"khagan\" to take advantage of the dispersal of the Arab army to its winter quarters, and resume his advance. Following Harith's advice, in early December the \"khagan\" led the Turgesh army, 30,000 strong and comprising contingents from virtually every native ruler of Transoxiana and Upper Tokharistan, south, bypassing Balkh, into Guzgan, hoping to raise the Hephthalite princes of Lower Tokharistan in revolt as well. In this he failed, as the king of Guzgan joined Asad, who was approaching with what forces he could muster. Asad's advance caught the \"khagan\" and Harith off guard: Asad came upon them near Kharistan when they were accompanied by only 4,000 men, the rest having scattered to plunder and forage. In the ensuing Battle of Kharistan, Asad routed the Turgesh. Harith, who fought with distinction, and the \"khagan\" barely escaped themselves and fled north over the Oxus. Asad's victory at Kharistan saved Arab rule in Central Asia. The Turgesh detachments south of the Oxus were largely destroyed piecemeal by Juday' al-Kirmani, ending the threat to Khurasan, and the loyalty of the native rulers of Tokharistan was cemented. The \"khagan\"′s prestige took a serious hit, which encouraged his domestic rivals, who were backed secretly by the Chinese. In early 738, the \"tarkhan\" Kursul assassinated Suluk, whereupon the Turgesh realm collapsed in civil war. Asad too died soon after, and was succeeded by Nasr ibn Sayyar in July 738.\n\nNothing is known of Harith's activities during the next two years, but he evidently remained in northern Transoxiana, based at al-Shash (Tashkent) and in close contact with the Turgesh. In 740 or 741, after having consolidated his authority in Khurasan and carried out tax reforms that eased the social unrest, Nasr ibn Sayyar advanced into the middle Jaxartes valley, making for Shash. His campaign was part of Nasr's efforts to re-establish Arab control over Transoxiana, but, according to H.A.R. Gibb and Kister, the main objective was the expulsion of Harith from Shash, who might still unite the Turgesh and the native princes against the Arabs. In the event, Nasr was prevented from crossing the Jaxartes by an army composed of Turgesh, troops from Shash and Harith's followers, and was forced to withdraw after a negotiated settlement, which among other terms stipulated the removal of Harith and his adherents to the remote town of Farab.\n\nNasr's campaigns and reforms consolidated Muslim rule over Khurasan and much of Transoxiana, but his success was fragile: the native princes resented their loss of autonomy and the increasing assimilation of their people by their Arab conquerors and sent embassies to the Chinese court for aid, while the rivalry between the Mudari and Yamani tribal groups, evident across the Muslim world, still divided the Arabs themselves. On the accession of the pro-Yemenite caliph Yazid III in 744, the Khurasani Yemenites supported Juday' al-Kirmani's candidature as governor, and when this did not come about, they rebelled. Consequently, Nasr felt it necessary to bring Harith and his adherents back, to both strengthen his own position—Harith and his followers had a long history of enmity towards al-Kirmani—and remove a potential source for another foreign invasion. Nasr secured a full pardon for Harith and his supporters from Yazid. Their confiscated property was returned, and the Caliph even promised to rule \"according to the Book and the \"sunna\"\".\n\nWhen Harith arrived at Marw in early July 745, however, the situation had changed: Yazid was dead, a full-blown civil war had erupted in Syria, and Nasr ibn Sayyar, although still occupying the position of governor, lacked authority. Although he recognized Marwan II (r. 744–750), most of his own followers did not accept Marwan as Caliph. Harith was quick to distance himself from Nasr: he refused the offer of a district governorship, and distributed the gifts he received among his supporters. Harith vocally denounced Marwan II, and was soon joined by 3,000 of his fellow Tamimis, while his secretary, Jahm ibn Safwan, drummed up further support. Within a short time, he had become a graver threat to Nasr than al-Kirmani. After attempts to negotiate an agreement proved fruitless, Nasr attacked Harith's forces in March 746, and scored a first victory over them, in which Jahm ibn Safwan fell. At this point, al-Kirmani joined forces with Harith, and together they forced Nasr to abandon Marw and withdraw to Naysabur. The two allies entered the capital of Khurasan, but within days fell out and began fighting each other. In these clashes, Harith was killed, leaving al-Kirmani the master of the city. The conflict between Nasr and al-Kirmani continued, but was soon overtaken by events: exploiting the conditions of civil war, the Abbasids under Abu Muslim launched their own anti-Umayyad revolt in Khurasan. Nasr ibn Sayyar tried to conclude an alliance with al-Kirmani, but failed when the latter was murdered by one of Harith's sons in revenge. Abu Muslim managed to exploit the situation to his advantage, and in early 748, his men entered Marw, the first step in a war that would lead to the fall of the Umayyad dynasty and its replacement with the Abbasids two years later.\n\n"}
{"id": "914902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914902", "title": "Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta", "text": "Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta\n\nThe Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta is a yearly hot air balloon festival that takes place in Albuquerque, New Mexico, during early October. The Balloon Fiesta is a nine-day event from October 6th to October 14th, and has over 500 hot air balloons each year. The event is the largest balloon festival in the world.\n\nThe Balloon Fiesta began in 1972 as the highlight of a 50th birthday celebration for 770 KOB Radio. Radio station manager Dick McKee asked Sid Cutter, owner of Cutter Flying Service and the first person to own a hot air balloon in New Mexico, if KOB could use his new hot-air balloon as part of the festivities. The two began discussing ballooning, along with conversation and help from Oscar Kratz, and McKee asked what the largest gathering of hot air balloons to date had been. 19 balloons in England, Cutter replied. Kratz asked \"Can we get 19 here?\" Cutter agreed to try. He got commitments from 21 pilots, but bad weather kept some of them from arriving in time. The first fiesta ended up as a gathering of 13 balloons on April 8, 1972, sponsored by KOB. The first event was located in the parking lot of the Coronado Center Shopping Mall with 20,000 spectators and with balloonists from Arizona, California, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada and Texas taking part. McKee, Cutter, and Kratz are the three men who had originally started the balloon races. The first fiesta incorporated a \"Roadrunner-Coyote Balloon Race\" (a \"hare-and-hounds\" race elsewhere in the world) with 1 balloon being the \"Roadrunner\" and the others being \"Coyote\" balloons (the \"Roadrunner\" balloon was actually emblazoned with likenesses of both Warner Bros. characters). The winner of the race - the \"Coyote\" that landed closest to the Roadrunner - was Don Piccard of the noted aerostation dynasty, flying a balloon of his company's design and construction (his wife also placed in the race). This race has continued as part of the Balloon Fiesta today.\n\nThe next year Albuquerque hosted the first World Hot-Air Balloon Championships in February and the fiesta became an international event. In 1975 Albuquerque was looking at hosting the World Championships again, but the event was scheduled for October. So the fiesta was moved to correspond with the championships. To maintain interest in Albuquerque’s bid to host the championships, a balloon rally was held in February of that year. Autumn being a far better flying time than February, the event has remained in early October to the present day.\n\nThe Balloon Fiesta grew each year for decades, and today is the largest balloon convention in the world. The number of registered balloons reached a peak of 1,019 in 2000, prompting the Balloon Fiesta Board to limit the number to 750 starting in 2001, citing a desire for \"quality over quantity\". The limit was changed to 600 in 2009 — citing recent growth in the city and a loss of landing zones. On any given day during the festival, up to 100,000 spectators may be on the launch field where they are provided the rare opportunity to observe inflation and take off procedures. Countless more people gather at landing sites all over the city to watch incoming balloons.\n\nThe Dawn Patrol began at the Balloon Fiesta in 1978, when two California balloonists developed position lighting systems that allowed them to fly at night. Dawn Patrol pilots take off before sunrise and fly until it is light enough to see landing sites. Fellow balloonists appreciate the Dawn Patrol because they can watch the balloons and get an early idea of wind speeds and directions at different altitudes.\n\nOne of the biggest events of the fiesta, where all participating balloons launch in two waves, filling the sky with hundreds of balloons at once. Launch directors, also known as “zebras” because of their black-and-white-striped outfits, serve as “traffic cops,” coordinating the launch so balloons leave the field in a safe and coordinated manner.\n\nMany local artists take advantage of the balloons as favorite subject matter for their paintings. Balloons often land in Albuquerque neighborhoods. Many residents watch the balloons from the comfort of their backyards.\n\nMany non-traditional, uniquely shaped balloons are launched at the same time. Some of the most famous shapes include a milk cow, a wagon coach, twin bees, and many others like soda pop cans and animals. This is the most popular part of the event as families can see how balloons can be all different in shapes and sizes.\n\nLarge numbers of balloons are illuminated at night by their propane burners. They stand static and do not take off during these events. The \"Glowdeo\" is a night glow for the special shapes balloons.\n\nVarious events like:\n\n\nThe convention has also become a major showcase of New Mexican culture and history and features numerous cultural exhibitions .The fiesta is one of Albuquerque's largest tourist attractions and constitutes a major source of income for the city and local businesses. In 2015, the fiesta logged 955,703 visitors. Typically, tourists and fiesta visitors take thousands of pictures of the balloons, so it is no surprise that for several years the fiesta was sponsored by Kodak and was given the title, the \"Kodak Albuquerque International Balloon Fiesta\", though that title was usually only used in print ads and on official memorabilia. In 2018 the fiesta was presented by Canon, a Japanese camera and imaging company.\n\nThe success of the Fiesta depends in part on the cool Albuquerque morning temperatures in October and the \"Albuquerque box\". The \"box\" is a set of predictable wind patterns that can be exploited to navigate the balloons. At low elevations the winds tend to be northerly (from the north), but at higher elevations they tend to be southerly. Balloonists use these winds to navigate in a vertical box: they ascend slightly from the launch park, move south, ascend further, move north, descend, and repeat the box or land back in the launch park or quite nearby. During events involving on-field targets, such as the \"Key Grab\" (where pilots attempt to grab prizes, including a set of keys to a new vehicle, from atop tall, flexible poles), it's not uncommon to see the same balloon make 5 or 6 passes at the targets, simply by working the \"Box\" to keep returning to the field.\n\nBalloon Fiesta Park, from which the balloons are launched, is located on the northern edge of the city. In 2005, the Anderson-Abruzzo Albuquerque International Balloon Museum was opened on the grounds. The museum is dedicated to the history, science, sport, and art of ballooning and other innovative forms of flight. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27881825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27881825", "title": "Atamalqualiztli", "text": "Atamalqualiztli\n\nAtamalqualiztli (The Eating of Water Tamales or the Festival of the Water Pancakes) was an Aztec festival held every eight years, either in the month of Quecholli (late October-early November) or in Tepeilhuitl (beginning of October). It involved a week-long period of fasting, in which people ate nothing except for a daily midday portion of unseasoned tamales soaked in water. The festival was celebrated in order to allow the food to rest from being treated and cooked, with the belief that in this way the food would be revitalised. It was believed that those who did not celebrate the festival would be struck with leprosy, and thus anyone who did not participate was disciplined. The morning after the festival was known as 'It is sprinkled with the acid of pepper', in honour of the end of the fast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2593857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2593857", "title": "Basilar skull fracture", "text": "Basilar skull fracture\n\nA basilar skull fracture is a break of a bone in the base of the skull. Symptoms may include bruising behind the ears, bruising around the eyes, or blood behind the ear drum. A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leak occurs in about 20% of cases and can result in fluid leaking from the nose or ear. Meningitis is a complication in about 14% of cases. Other complications include cranial nerve or blood vessel injury.\nThey typically require a significant degree of trauma to occur. The break is of at least one of the following bones: temporal bone, occipital bone, sphenoid bone, frontal bone, or ethmoid bone. They are divided into anterior fossa, middle fossa, and posterior fossa fractures. Facial fractures often also occur. Diagnosis is typically by CT scan.\nTreatment is generally based on the injury to structures inside the head. Surgery may be done for a CSF leak that does not stop or an injury to a blood vessel or nerve. Preventative antibiotics are of unclear use. It occurs in about 12% of people with a severe head injury.\n\n\nBasilar skull fractures include breaks in the posterior skull base or anterior skull base. The former involve the occipital bone, temporal bone, and portions of the sphenoid bone; the latter, superior portions of the sphenoid and ethmoid bones. The temporal bone fracture is encountered in 75% of all basilar skull fractures and may be longitudinal, transverse or mixed, depending on the course of the fracture line in relation to the longitudinal axis of the pyramid.\n\nBones may be broken around the foramen magnum, the hole in the base of the skull through which the brain stem exits and becomes the spinal cord, creating the risk that blood vessels and nerves exiting the hole may be damaged.\n\nDue to the proximity of the cranial nerves, injury to those nerves may occur. This can cause loss of function of the facial nerve or oculomotor nerve or hearing loss due to damage of cranial nerve VIII.\n\nEvidence does not support the use of preventative antibiotics regardless of the presence of a cerebrospinal fluid leak.\n\nNon-displaced fractures usually heal without intervention. Patients with basilar skull fractures are especially likely to get meningitis. Unfortunately, the efficacy of prophylactic antibiotics in these cases is uncertain.\n\nAcute injury to the internal carotid artery (carotid dissection, occlusion, pseudoaneurysm formation) may be asymptomatic or result in life-threatening bleeding. They are almost exclusively observed when the carotid canal is fractured, although only a minority of carotid canal fractures result in vascular injury. Involvement of the petrous segment of the carotid canal is associated with a relatively high incidence of carotid injury.\n\nBasilar skull fractures are a common cause of death in many motor racing accidents. Drivers who have died as a result of basilar skull fractures include Formula One drivers Roland Ratzenberger and Ayrton Senna; IndyCar drivers Bill Vukovich Sr., Tony Bettenhausen Sr., Floyd Roberts, and Scott Brayton; NASCAR drivers Dale Earnhardt Sr., Adam Petty, Tony Roper, Kenny Irwin Jr., Neil Bonnett, John Nemechek, J.D. McDuffie, and Richie Evans; CART drivers Jovy Marcelo, Greg Moore, and Gonzalo Rodriguez; and ARCA drivers Blaise Alexander and Slick Johnson.\n\nTo prevent this injury many motor sports sanctioning bodies mandate the use of head and neck restraints, such as the HANS device. The HANS device has demonstrated its life-saving abilities multiple times, including Jeff Gordon at the 2006 Pocono 500, Michael McDowell at the Texas Motor Speedway in 2008, Robert Kubica at the 2007 Canadian Grand Prix, and Elliott Sadler at the Pocono Red Cross 500 in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "3675430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3675430", "title": "Bella Union Saloon", "text": "Bella Union Saloon\n\nThe Bella Union was a saloon and theater in Deadwood, South Dakota, which opened on September 10, 1876. The proprietor was Tom Miller, an aggressive businessman who would buy several neighboring properties as well. \n\nBella Union Saloon was a relatively upscale establishment where town meetings came to be held.\n\nIn November 1878, Tom Miller went bankrupt and the Bella Union became a grocery store downstairs and a meeting hall named Mechanics' Hall upstairs.\n\nA fictionalized version of the saloon appeared in the HBO television series \"Deadwood\", where the owner was the character Cy Tolliver. In the 1953 musical, \"Calamity Jane\", the character Henry Miller (not Tom), is the proprietor of the town's saloon and theater.\n"}
{"id": "6948635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6948635", "title": "Birkenhead dock disaster", "text": "Birkenhead dock disaster\n\nThe Birkenhead dock disaster was a tragedy that happened when a temporary dam collapsed during construction of the Vittoria Dock in Birkenhead, Wirral Peninsula, England, on 6 March 1909. It left 14 workers (or \"navvies\") dead and three injured. The disaster led to a huge public outpouring of sympathy and grief in the local area. However, the Government refused to hold a public inquiry and the cause of the disaster was never definitively established. Very little evidence or documentation surrounding the event now exists.\n\nThe £206,000 contract to build a dock on the Vittoria Wharf area of Birkenhead was awarded by the Mersey Docks and Harbour Board in 1905 to John Scott of Darlington. Scott was the son of Sir Walter Scott (1826-1910), one of the greatest regional civil engineering contractors of his era, and had recently built an extension to the docks in Middlesbrough.\nThe Vittoria Dock - sited at the northern end of Vittoria Street - was to serve as an accessible, organised berthing facility for vessels, which were increasing in size.\nWork began in 1905 and was due to be finished by the end of 1909. However, by March 1909 it was nine months ahead of schedule. The whole project was merely a few hours from completion when the disaster occurred.\n\nJust after midnight on 6 March 1909, during a blinding snowstorm, disaster struck. A gang of navvies were working in a which formed the entrance channel to the new dock. They were clearing away rubble and timber, which was hauled up to the dockside by a crane which straddled the excavation. The waters of the neighbouring East Float were held back from the entrance channel by a temporary coffer dam, formed from pilings rammed with mud and cement, which had been built in 1907. There was only a small amount of work left to do, and the whole four-year dock project would be finished by the following evening.\n\nHigh-tide in the River Mersey had been about 11:15 pm and the East Float was full of water. At around 12:25 am the foundation of the coffer dam gave way without warning; the fifteen workers were overwhelmed by water and debris. A platform carrying the crane, engine and boiler collapsed into the excavation, and, it is believed, trapped the men underwater. Fourteen men were killed, but one survived by clinging on the dock wall until he was rescued. The engine-driver and a boy acting as a signaller were swept into the water but were rescued; the boy being trapped between baulks of timer later had his leg amputated. The disaster widowed seven women and left 13 children fatherless. It took a month for divers to recover all the bodies, and the victims were buried in three mass graves in Flaybrick Hill Cemetery, Birkenhead, now known as Flaybrick Memorial Gardens.\n\nAt the ensuing inquest, John Scott's chief engineer claimed that the disaster was probably caused when the base of the coffer dam shifted after pilings from the old dock wall were removed, and this event could not have been foreseen. However, this explanation was never independently tested or verified. One man—John Jones, the operator of the piledriving machine used to build the dam—bravely spoke out at the inquest, claiming there had been shoddy workmanship and rotten building materials had been used on the project. But his evidence was disregarded and the jury, heavily influenced by the coroner's summing-up, returned a verdict that no one was to blame. The Vittoria Dock opened for business four months after the disaster and is still in operation today.\n"}
{"id": "5674144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5674144", "title": "Burlington Northern &amp; Santa Fe Railway Co. v. White", "text": "Burlington Northern &amp; Santa Fe Railway Co. v. White\n\nBurlington Northern & Santa Fe (BNSF) Railway Co. v. White, 548 U.S. 53 (2006), is a US labor law case of the United States Supreme Court on sexual harassment and retaliatory discrimination. It was a landmark case for retaliation claims. It set a precedent for claims which could be considered \"retaliatory\" under the Civil Rights Act.\n\nIn June 1997, Sheila White was the only woman working in the Maintenance of Way department at BNSF’s Tennessee Yard. When she applied for the job at BNSF, her previous experience operating forklifts was noted by Marvin Brown, her interviewer at BNSF. White was hired as a “track laborer,” a job that involves removing and replacing track components, transporting track material, cutting brush, and clearing litter and cargo spillage from the right-of-way. Soon after White arrived on the job, she was assigned to operate the forklift. While she also performed some of the other track laborer tasks, operating the forklift was White’s primary responsibility.\n\nIn September 1997, White complained to BNSF officials that her immediate supervisor, Bill Joiner, had repeatedly told her that women should not be working in the Maintenance of Way department. Joiner, White said, had also made insulting and inappropriate remarks to her in front of her male colleagues. After an internal investigation, Burlington suspended Joiner for 10 days and ordered him to attend a sexual-harassment training session.\n\nOn September 26, Brown told White about Joiner’s discipline. At the same time, he told White that he was removing her from forklift duty and assigning her to perform only standard track laborer tasks. Brown explained that the reassignment reflected co-worker’s complaints that, in fairness, a “‘more senior man’” should have the “less arduous and cleaner job” of forklift operator. \n\nOn October 10, White filed a complaint with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). She claimed that the reassignment of her duties amounted to unlawful gender-based discrimination and retaliation for her having earlier complained about Joiner. In early December, White filed a second retaliation charge with the Commission, claiming that Brown had placed her under surveillance and was monitoring her daily activities. That charge was mailed to Brown on December 8.\n\nA few days later, White and her immediate supervisor, Percy Sharkey, disagreed about which truck should transport White from one location to another. Some aspects of this conversation are disputed, however later that day Sharkey told Brown that White had been insubordinate. Brown immediately suspended White without pay. White invoked internal grievance procedures. Those procedures led Burlington to conclude that White had not been insubordinate. Burlington reinstated White to her position and awarded her back pay for the 37 days she was suspended. White filed an additional retaliation charge with the EEOC based on the suspension.\n\nTitle VII’s anti-retaliation provision forbids employer actions that “discriminate against” an employee (or job applicant) because he has “opposed” a practice that Title VII forbids or has “made a charge, testified, assisted, or participated in” a Title VII “investigation, proceeding, or hearing.” (a).\n\nAfter exhausting administrative remedies, White filed suit in federal court, where a jury rejected her claims of sex discrimination but awarded her damages of $43,000 after finding that she had been retaliated against in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\n\nOn appeal, Burlington Northern argued that White had not suffered \"adverse employment action,\" and therefore could not bring the suit, because she had not been fired, demoted, denied a promotion, or denied wages. In November 2002, a panel of the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals initially agreed, where Judge James S. Gwin was joined by Judge Robert B. Krupansky, over the dissent of Judge Eric L. Clay. The case was reheard en banc, however, and, in April 2004, the full court found for White, holding that the suspension without pay - even if back pay was eventually awarded - was an \"adverse employment action,\" as was the change of responsibilities within the same job category. The judges differed as to the standard they should apply in assessing such claims.\n\nOne hour of oral arguments were heard on April 17, 2006, where Gregory G. Garre, the Deputy Solicitor General of the United States, appeared as a friend for the railroad.\n\nOn June 22, 2006, the Supreme Court delivered judgment unanimously in favor of Sheila White. It affirmed the decision of the Sixth Circuit, but for different reasons than those used by the lower court. Justice Stephen Breyer wrote for the majority.\n\nJustice Alito concurred in the judgment, but disagreed with the majority’s interpretation of the antiretaliation provision of Title VII, writing that \"[t]he practical consequences of the test that the majority adopts strongly suggest that this test is not what Congress intended.\"\n\nIt is claimed that this case radically changed the standard regarding what constitutes a “materially adverse action” regarding employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7398", "title": "Computer security", "text": "Computer security\n\nComputer security, cybersecurity or information technology security (IT security) is the protection of computer systems from theft or damage to their hardware, software or electronic data, as well as from disruption or misdirection of the services they provide.\n\nThe field is growing in importance due to increasing reliance on computer systems, the Internet and wireless networks such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi, and due to the growth of \"smart\" devices, including smartphones, televisions and the various tiny devices that constitute the Internet of things. Due to its complexity, both in terms of politics and technology, it is also one of the major challenges of the contemporary world.\n\nA vulnerability is a weakness in design, implementation, operation or internal control. Most of the vulnerabilities that have been discovered are documented in the Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) database.\n\nAn \"exploitable\" vulnerability is one for which at least one working attack or \"exploit\" exists. Vulnerabilities are often hunted or exploited with the aid of automated tools or manually using customized scripts.\n\nTo secure a computer system, it is important to understand the attacks that can be made against it, and these threats can typically be classified into one of these categories below:\n\nA backdoor in a computer system, a cryptosystem or an algorithm, is any secret method of bypassing normal authentication or security controls. They may exist for a number of reasons, including by original design or from poor configuration. They may have been added by an authorized party to allow some legitimate access, or by an attacker for malicious reasons; but regardless of the motives for their existence, they create a vulnerability.\n\nDenial of service attacks (DoS) are designed to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users. Attackers can deny service to individual victims, such as by deliberately entering a wrong password enough consecutive times to cause the victims account to be locked, or they may overload the capabilities of a machine or network and block all users at once. While a network attack from a single IP address can be blocked by adding a new firewall rule, many forms of Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks are possible, where the attack comes from a large number of points – and defending is much more difficult. Such attacks can originate from the zombie computers of a botnet, but a range of other techniques are possible including reflection and amplification attacks, where innocent systems are fooled into sending traffic to the victim.\n\nAn unauthorized user gaining physical access to a computer is most likely able to directly copy data from it. They may also compromise security by making operating system modifications, installing software worms, keyloggers, covert listening devices or using wireless mice. Even when the system is protected by standard security measures, these may be able to be by-passed by booting another operating system or tool from a CD-ROM or other bootable media. Disk encryption and Trusted Platform Module are designed to prevent these attacks.\n\nEavesdropping is the act of surreptitiously listening to a private conversation, typically between hosts on a network. For instance, programs such as Carnivore and NarusInSight have been used by the FBI and NSA to eavesdrop on the systems of internet service providers. Even machines that operate as a closed system (i.e., with no contact to the outside world) can be eavesdropped upon via monitoring the faint electro-magnetic transmissions generated by the hardware; TEMPEST is a specification by the NSA referring to these attacks.\n\nSurfacing in 2017, a new class of multi-vector, polymorphic cyber threats surfaced that combined several types of attacks and changed form to avoid cybersecurity controls as they spread. These threats have been classified as fifth generation cyberattacks.\n\nPhishing is the attempt to acquire sensitive information such as usernames, passwords, and credit card details directly from users. Phishing is typically carried out by email spoofing or instant messaging, and it often directs users to enter details at a fake website whose look and feel are almost identical to the legitimate one. Preying on a victim's trust, phishing can be classified as a form of social engineering.\n\nPrivilege escalation describes a situation where an attacker with some level of restricted access is able to, without authorization, elevate their privileges or access level. For example, a standard computer user may be able to fool the system into giving them access to restricted data; or even to \"become root\" and have full unrestricted access to a system.\n\nSocial engineering aims to convince a user to disclose secrets such as passwords, card numbers, etc. by, for example, impersonating a bank, a contractor, or a customer.\n\nA common scam involves fake CEO emails sent to accounting and finance departments. In early 2016, the FBI reported that the scam has cost US businesses more than $2bn in about two years.\n\nIn May 2016, the Milwaukee Bucks NBA team was the victim of this type of cyber scam with a perpetrator impersonating the team's president Peter Feigin, resulting in the handover of all the team's employees' 2015 W-2 tax forms.\n\nSpoofing is the act of masquerading as a valid entity through falsification of data (such as an IP address or username), in order to gain access to information or resources that one is otherwise unauthorized to obtain. There are several types of spoofing, including:\n\n\nTampering describes a malicious modification of products. So-called \"Evil Maid\" attacks and security services planting of surveillance capability into routers are examples.\n\nEmployee behavior can have a big impact on information security in organizations. Cultural concepts can help different segments of the organization work effectively or work against effectiveness towards information security within an organization. ″Exploring the Relationship between Organizational Culture and Information Security Culture″ provides the following definition of information security culture: ″ISC is the totality of patterns of behavior in an organization that contribute to the protection of information of all kinds.″\n\nAndersson and Reimers (2014) found that employees often do not see themselves as part of the organization Information Security \"effort\" and often take actions that ignore organizational Information Security best interests. Research shows Information security culture needs to be improved continuously. In ″Information Security Culture from Analysis to Change″, authors commented, ″It′s a never ending process, a cycle of evaluation and change or maintenance.″ To manage the information security culture, five steps should be taken: Pre-evaluation, strategic planning, operative planning, implementation, and post-evaluation.\n\nThe growth in the number of computer systems, and the increasing reliance upon them of individuals, businesses, industries and governments means that there are an increasing number of systems at risk.\n\nThe computer systems of financial regulators and financial institutions like the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, SWIFT, investment banks, and commercial banks are prominent hacking targets for cybercriminals interested in manipulating markets and making illicit gains. Web sites and apps that accept or store credit card numbers, brokerage accounts, and bank account information are also prominent hacking targets, because of the potential for immediate financial gain from transferring money, making purchases, or selling the information on the black market. In-store payment systems and ATMs have also been tampered with in order to gather customer account data and PINs.\n\nComputers control functions at many utilities, including coordination of telecommunications, the power grid, nuclear power plants, and valve opening and closing in water and gas networks. The Internet is a potential attack vector for such machines if connected, but the Stuxnet worm demonstrated that even equipment controlled by computers not connected to the Internet can be vulnerable. In 2014, the Computer Emergency Readiness Team, a division of the Department of Homeland Security, investigated 79 hacking incidents at energy companies. Vulnerabilities in smart meters (many of which use local radio or cellular communications) can cause problems with billing fraud.\n\nThe aviation industry is very reliant on a series of complex systems which could be attacked. A simple power outage at one airport can cause repercussions worldwide, much of the system relies on radio transmissions which could be disrupted, and controlling aircraft over oceans is especially dangerous because radar surveillance only extends 175 to 225 miles offshore. There is also potential for attack from within an aircraft.\n\nIn Europe, with the (Pan-European Network Service) and NewPENS, and in the US with the NextGen program, air navigation service providers are moving to create their own dedicated networks.\n\nThe consequences of a successful attack range from loss of confidentiality to loss of system integrity, air traffic control outages, loss of aircraft, and even loss of life.\n\nDesktop computers and laptops are commonly targeted to gather passwords or financial account information, or to construct a botnet to attack another target. Smartphones, tablet computers, smart watches, and other mobile devices such as quantified self devices like activity trackers have sensors such as cameras, microphones, GPS receivers, compasses, and accelerometers which could be exploited, and may collect personal information, including sensitive health information. Wifi, Bluetooth, and cell phone networks on any of these devices could be used as attack vectors, and sensors might be remotely activated after a successful breach.\n\nThe increasing number of home automation devices such as the Nest thermostat are also potential targets.\n\nLarge corporations are common targets. In many cases this is aimed at financial gain through identity theft and involves data breaches such as the loss of millions of clients' credit card details by Home Depot, Staples, Target Corporation, and the most recent breach of Equifax.\n\nSome cyberattacks are ordered by foreign governments, these governments engage in cyberwarfare with the intent to spread their propaganda, sabotage, or spy on their targets. Many people believe the Russian government played a major role in the US presidential election of 2016 by using Twitter and Facebook to affect the results of the election.\n\nMedical records have been targeted for use in general identify theft, health insurance fraud, and impersonating patients to obtain prescription drugs for recreational purposes or resale. Although cyber threats continue to increase, 62% of all organizations did not increase security training for their business in 2015.\n\nNot all attacks are financially motivated however; for example security firm HBGary Federal suffered a serious series of attacks in 2011 from hacktivist group Anonymous in retaliation for the firm's CEO claiming to have infiltrated their group, and in the Sony Pictures attack of 2014 the motive appears to have been to embarrass with data leaks, and cripple the company by wiping workstations and servers.\n\nVehicles are increasingly computerized, with engine timing, cruise control, anti-lock brakes, seat belt tensioners, door locks, airbags and advanced driver-assistance systems on many models. Additionally, connected cars may use WiFi and Bluetooth to communicate with onboard consumer devices and the cell phone network. Self-driving cars are expected to be even more complex.\n\nAll of these systems carry some security risk, and such issues have gained wide attention. Simple examples of risk include a malicious compact disc being used as an attack vector, and the car's onboard microphones being used for eavesdropping. However, if access is gained to a car's internal controller area network, the danger is much greater – and in a widely publicized 2015 test, hackers remotely carjacked a vehicle from 10 miles away and drove it into a ditch.\n\nManufacturers are reacting in a number of ways, with Tesla in 2016 pushing out some security fixes \"over the air\" into its cars' computer systems.\n\nIn the area of autonomous vehicles, in September 2016 the United States Department of Transportation announced some initial safety standards, and called for states to come up with uniform policies.\n\nGovernment and military computer systems are commonly attacked by activists and foreign powers. Local and regional government infrastructure such as traffic light controls, police and intelligence agency communications, personnel records, student records, and financial systems are also potential targets as they are now all largely computerized. Passports and government ID cards that control access to facilities which use RFID can be vulnerable to cloning.\n\nThe Internet of things (IoT) is the network of physical objects such as devices, vehicles, and buildings that are embedded with electronics, software, sensors, and network connectivity that enables them to collect and exchange data – and concerns have been raised that this is being developed without appropriate consideration of the security challenges involved.\n\nWhile the IoT creates opportunities for more direct integration of the physical world into computer-based systems,\nit also provides opportunities for misuse. In particular, as the Internet of Things spreads widely, cyber attacks are likely to become an increasingly physical (rather than simply virtual) threat. If a front door's lock is connected to the Internet, and can be locked/unlocked from a phone, then a criminal could enter the home at the press of a button from a stolen or hacked phone. People could stand to lose much more than their credit card numbers in a world controlled by IoT-enabled devices. Thieves have also used electronic means to circumvent non-Internet-connected hotel door locks.\n\nMedical devices have either been successfully attacked or had potentially deadly vulnerabilities demonstrated, including both in-hospital diagnostic equipment and implanted devices including pacemakers and insulin pumps. There are many reports of hospitals and hospital organizations getting hacked, including ransomware attacks, Windows XP exploits, viruses, and data breaches of sensitive data stored on hospital servers. On 28 December 2016 the US Food and Drug Administration released its recommendations for how medical device manufacturers should maintain the security of Internet-connected devices – but no structure for enforcement.\n\nIn distributed generation systems, the risk of cyber attacks is real, according to \"Daily Energy Insider\". An attack could cause a loss of power in a large area for a long period of time, and such an attack could have just as severe consequences as a natural disaster. The District of Columbia is considering creating a Distributed Energy Resources (DER) Authority within the city, with the goal being for customers to have more insight into their own energy use and giving the local electric utility, Pepco, the chance to better estimate energy demand. The D.C. proposal, however, would \"allow third-party vendors to create numerous points of energy distribution, which could potentially create more opportunities for cyberattackers to threaten the electric grid.\"\n\nSerious financial damage has been caused by security breaches, but because there is no standard model for estimating the cost of an incident, the only data available is that which is made public by the organizations involved. \"Several computer security consulting firms produce estimates of total worldwide losses attributable to virus and worm attacks and to hostile digital acts in general. The 2003 loss estimates by these firms range from $13 billion (worms and viruses only) to $226 billion (for all forms of covert attacks). The reliability of these estimates is often challenged; the underlying methodology is basically anecdotal.\" Security breaches continue to cost businesses billions of dollars but a survey revealed that 66% of security staffs do not believe senior leadership takes cyber precautions as a strategic priority.\n\nHowever, reasonable estimates of the financial cost of security breaches can actually help organizations make rational investment decisions. According to the classic Gordon-Loeb Model analyzing the optimal investment level in information security, one can conclude that the amount a firm spends to protect information should generally be only a small fraction of the expected loss (i.e., the expected value of the loss resulting from a cyber/information security breach).\n\nAs with physical security, the motivations for breaches of computer security vary between attackers. Some are thrill-seekers or vandals, some are activists, others are criminals looking for financial gain. State-sponsored attackers are now common and well resourced, but started with amateurs such as Markus Hess who hacked for the KGB, as recounted by Clifford Stoll, in \"The Cuckoo's Egg\".\n\nA standard part of threat modelling for any particular system is to identify what might motivate an attack on that system, and who might be motivated to breach it. The level and detail of precautions will vary depending on the system to be secured. A home personal computer, bank, and classified military network face very different threats, even when the underlying technologies in use are similar.\n\nIn computer security a countermeasure is an action, device, procedure, or technique that reduces a threat, a vulnerability, or an attack by eliminating or preventing it, by minimizing the harm it can cause, or by discovering and reporting it so that corrective action can be taken.\n\nSome common countermeasures are listed in the following sections:\n\nSecurity by design, or alternately secure by design, means that the software has been designed from the ground up to be secure. In this case, security is considered as a main feature.\n\nSome of the techniques in this approach include:\n\nThe Open Security Architecture organization defines IT security architecture as \"the design artifacts that describe how the security controls (security countermeasures) are positioned, and how they relate to the overall information technology architecture. These controls serve the purpose to maintain the system's quality attributes: confidentiality, integrity, availability, accountability and assurance services\".\n\nTechopedia defines security architecture as \"a unified security design that addresses the necessities and potential risks involved in a certain scenario or environment. It also specifies when and where to apply security controls. The design process is generally reproducible.\" The key attributes of security architecture are:\n\nA state of computer \"security\" is the conceptual ideal, attained by the use of the three processes: threat prevention, detection, and response. These processes are based on various policies and system components, which include the following:\n\n\nToday, computer security comprises mainly \"preventive\" measures, like firewalls or an exit procedure. A firewall can be defined as a way of filtering network data between a host or a network and another network, such as the Internet, and can be implemented as software running on the machine, hooking into the network stack (or, in the case of most UNIX-based operating systems such as Linux, built into the operating system kernel) to provide real-time filtering and blocking. Another implementation is a so-called \"physical firewall\", which consists of a separate machine filtering network traffic. Firewalls are common amongst machines that are permanently connected to the Internet.\n\nSome organizations are turning to big data platforms, such as Apache Hadoop, to extend data accessibility and machine learning to detect advanced persistent threats.\n\nHowever, relatively few organisations maintain computer systems with effective detection systems, and fewer still have organized response mechanisms in place. As a result, as Reuters points out: \"Companies for the first time report they are losing more through electronic theft of data than physical stealing of assets\". The primary obstacle to effective eradication of cyber crime could be traced to excessive reliance on firewalls and other automated \"detection\" systems. Yet it is basic evidence gathering by using packet capture appliances that puts criminals behind bars.\n\nVulnerability management is the cycle of identifying, and remediating or mitigating vulnerabilities, especially in software and firmware. Vulnerability management is integral to computer security and network security.\n\nVulnerabilities can be discovered with a vulnerability scanner, which analyzes a computer system in search of known vulnerabilities, such as open ports, insecure software configuration, and susceptibility to malware.\n\nBeyond vulnerability scanning, many organisations contract outside security auditors to run regular penetration tests against their systems to identify vulnerabilities. In some sectors this is a contractual requirement.\n\nWhile formal verification of the correctness of computer systems is possible, it is not yet common. Operating systems formally verified include seL4, and SYSGO's PikeOS – but these make up a very small percentage of the market.\n\nTwo factor authentication is a method for mitigating unauthorized access to a system or sensitive information. It requires \"something you know\"; a password or PIN, and \"something you have\"; a card, dongle, cellphone, or other piece of hardware. This increases security as an unauthorized person needs both of these to gain access.\n\nSocial engineering and direct computer access (physical) attacks can only be prevented by non-computer means, which can be difficult to enforce, relative to the sensitivity of the information. Training is often involved to help mitigate this risk, but even in a highly disciplined environments (e.g. military organizations), social engineering attacks can still be difficult to foresee and prevent.\n\nEnoculation, derived from inoculation theory, seeks to prevent social engineering and other fraudulent tricks or traps by instilling a resistance to persuasion attempts through exposure to similar or related attempts.\n\nIt is possible to reduce an attacker's chances by keeping systems up to date with security patches and updates, using a security scanner or/and hiring competent people responsible for security.(This statement is ambiguous. Even systems developed by \"competent\" people get penetrated) The effects of data loss/damage can be reduced by careful backing up and insurance.\n\nWhile hardware may be a source of insecurity, such as with microchip vulnerabilities maliciously introduced during the manufacturing process, hardware-based or assisted computer security also offers an alternative to software-only computer security. Using devices and methods such as dongles, trusted platform modules, intrusion-aware cases, drive locks, disabling USB ports, and mobile-enabled access may be considered more secure due to the physical access (or sophisticated backdoor access) required in order to be compromised. Each of these is covered in more detail below.\n\n\nOne use of the term \"computer security\" refers to technology that is used to implement secure operating systems. In the 1980s the United States Department of Defense (DoD) used the \"Orange Book\" standards, but the current international standard ISO/IEC 15408, \"Common Criteria\" defines a number of progressively more stringent Evaluation Assurance Levels. Many common operating systems meet the EAL4 standard of being \"Methodically Designed, Tested and Reviewed\", but the formal verification required for the highest levels means that they are uncommon. An example of an EAL6 (\"Semiformally Verified Design and Tested\") system is Integrity-178B, which is used in the Airbus A380\nand several military jets.\n\nIn software engineering, secure coding aims to guard against the accidental introduction of security vulnerabilities. It is also possible to create software designed from the ground up to be secure. Such systems are \"secure by design\". Beyond this, formal verification aims to prove the correctness of the algorithms underlying a system;\nimportant for cryptographic protocols for example.\n\nWithin computer systems, two of many security models capable of enforcing privilege separation are access control lists (ACLs) and capability-based security. Using ACLs to confine programs has been proven to be insecure in many situations, such as if the host computer can be tricked into indirectly allowing restricted file access, an issue known as the confused deputy problem. It has also been shown that the promise of ACLs of giving access to an object to only one person can never be guaranteed in practice. Both of these problems are resolved by capabilities. This does not mean practical flaws exist in all ACL-based systems, but only that the designers of certain utilities must take responsibility to ensure that they do not introduce flaws.\n\nCapabilities have been mostly restricted to research operating systems, while commercial OSs still use ACLs. Capabilities can, however, also be implemented at the language level, leading to a style of programming that is essentially a refinement of standard object-oriented design. An open source project in the area is the E language.\n\nThe end-user is widely recognized as the weakest link in the security chain and it is estimated that more than 90% of security incidents and breaches involve some kind of human error. Among the most commonly recorded forms of errors and misjudgment are poor password management, the inability to recognize misleading URLs and to identify fake websites and dangerous email attachments.\n\nAs the human component of cyber risk is particularly relevant in determining the global cyber risk an organization is facing, security awareness training, at all levels, does not only provides formal compliance with regulatory and industry mandates but is considered essential in reducing cyber risk and protecting individuals and companies from the great majority of cyber threats.\n\nThe focus on the end-user represents a profound cultural change for many security practitioners, who have traditionally approached cybersecurity exclusively from a technical perspective, and moves along the lines suggested by major security centers to develop a culture of cyber awareness within the organization, recognizing that a security aware user provides an important line of defense against cyber attacks.\n\nResponding forcefully to attempted security breaches (in the manner that one would for attempted physical security breaches) is often very difficult for a variety of reasons:\n\n\nIncident response is an organized approach to addressing and managing the aftermath of a computer security incident or compromise with the goal of preventing a breach or thwarting a cyberattack. An incident that is not identified and managed at the time of intrusion, typically escalates to a more impactful event such as a data breach or system failure. The intended outcome of a computer security incident response plan is to limit damage and reduce recovery time and costs. Responding to compromises quickly can mitigate exploited vulnerabilities, restore services and processes and minimize impact and losses.\n\nIncident response planning allows an organization to establish a series of best practices to stop an intrusion before it causes damage. Typical incident response plans contain a set of written instructions that outline the organization’s response to a cyberattack. Without a documented plan in place, an organization may not successfully detect an intrusion or compromise and stakeholders may not understand their roles, processes and procedures during an escalation, slowing the organizations response and resolution.\n\nThere are four key components of a computer security incident response plan: \n\n\nSome illustrative examples of different types of computer security breaches are given below.\n\nIn 1988, only 60,000 computers were connected to the Internet, and most were mainframes, minicomputers and professional workstations. On 2 November 1988, many started to slow down, because they were running a malicious code that demanded processor time and that spread itself to other computers – the first internet \"computer worm\". The software was traced back to 23-year-old Cornell University graduate student Robert Tappan Morris, Jr. who said 'he wanted to count how many machines were connected to the Internet'.\n\nIn 1994, over a hundred intrusions were made by unidentified crackers into the Rome Laboratory, the US Air Force's main command and research facility. Using trojan horses, hackers were able to obtain unrestricted access to Rome's networking systems and remove traces of their activities. The intruders were able to obtain classified files, such as air tasking order systems data and furthermore able to penetrate connected networks of National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Goddard Space Flight Center, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, some Defense contractors, and other private sector organizations, by posing as\na trusted Rome center user.\n\nIn early 2007, American apparel and home goods company TJX announced that it was the victim of an unauthorized computer systems intrusion and that the hackers had accessed a system that stored data on credit card, debit card, check, and merchandise return transactions.\n\nIn 2010 the computer worm known as Stuxnet reportedly ruined almost one-fifth of Iran's nuclear centrifuges. It did so by disrupting industrial programmable logic controllers (PLCs) in a targeted attack. This is generally believed to have been launched by Israel and the United States – although neither has publicly admitted this.\n\nIn early 2013, documents provided by Edward Snowden were published by \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" exposing the massive scale of NSA global surveillance. There were also indications that the NSA may have inserted a backdoor in a NIST standard for encryption. This standard was later withdrawn due to widespread criticism. The NSA additionally were revealed to have tapped the links between Google's data centres.\n\nIn 2013 and 2014, a Russian/Ukrainian hacking ring known as \"Rescator\" broke into Target Corporation computers in 2013, stealing roughly 40 million credit cards, and then Home Depot computers in 2014, stealing between 53 and 56 million credit card numbers. Warnings were delivered at both corporations, but ignored; physical security breaches using self checkout machines are believed to have played a large role. \"The malware utilized is absolutely unsophisticated and uninteresting,\" says Jim Walter, director of threat intelligence operations at security technology company McAfee – meaning that the heists could have easily been stopped by existing antivirus software had administrators responded to the warnings. The size of the thefts has resulted in major attention from state and Federal United States authorities and the investigation is ongoing.\n\nIn April 2015, the Office of Personnel Management discovered it had been hacked more than a year earlier in a data breach, resulting in the theft of approximately 21.5 million personnel records handled by the office. The Office of Personnel Management hack has been described by federal officials as among the largest breaches of government data in the history of the United States. Data targeted in the breach included personally identifiable information such as Social Security Numbers, names, dates and places of birth, addresses, and fingerprints of current and former government employees as well as anyone who had undergone a government background check. It is believed the hack was perpetrated by Chinese hackers.\n\nIn July 2015, a hacker group known as \"The Impact Team\" successfully breached the extramarital relationship website Ashley Madison, created by Avid Life Media. The group claimed that they had taken not only company data but user data as well. After the breach, The Impact Team dumped emails from the company's CEO, to prove their point, and threatened to dump customer data unless the website was taken down permanently.\" When Avid Life Media did not take the site offline the group released two more compressed files, one 9.7GB and the second 20GB. After the second data dump, Avid Life Media CEO Noel Biderman resigned; but the website remained functioning.\n\nInternational legal issues of cyber attacks are complicated in nature. There is no global base of common rules to judge, and eventually punish, cyber crimes and cyber criminals - and where security firms or agencies do locate the cybercriminal behind the creation of a particular piece of malware or form of cyber attack, often the local authorities cannot take action due to lack of laws under which to prosecute. Proving attribution for cyber crimes and cyber attacks is also a major problem for all law enforcement agencies. \"Computer viruses switch from one country to another, from one jurisdiction to another – moving around the world, using the fact that we don't have the capability to globally police operations like this. So the Internet is as if someone [had] given free plane tickets to all the online criminals of the world.\" The use of techniques such as dynamic DNS, fast flux and bullet proof servers add to the difficulty of investigation and enforcement.\n\nThe role of the government is to make regulations to force companies and organizations to protect their systems, infrastructure and information from any cyberattacks, but also to protect its own national infrastructure such as the national power-grid.\n\nGovernment's regulatory role in cyberspace is complicated. For some, cyberspace was seen virtual space that was to remain free of government intervention, as can be seen in many of today's libertarian blockchain and bitcoin discussions. \n\nMany government officials and experts think that the government should do more and that there is a crucial need for improved regulation, mainly due to the failure of the private sector to solve efficiently the cybersecurity problem. R. Clarke said during a panel discussion at the RSA Security Conference in San Francisco, he believes that the \"industry only responds when you threaten regulation. If the industry doesn't respond (to the threat), you have to follow through.\"\nOn the other hand, executives from the private sector agree that improvements are necessary, but think that the government intervention would affect their ability to innovate efficiently. Daniel R. McCarthy analyzed this public-private partnership in cybersecurity and reflected on the role of cybersecurity in the broader constitution of political order.\n\nMany different teams and organisations exist, including:\n\n\nOn 14 April 2016 the European Parliament and Council of the European Union adopted The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) (EU) 2016/679. GDPR, which became enforceable beginning 25 May 2018, provides for data protection and privacy for all individuals within the European Union (EU) and the European Economic Area (EEA). GDPR requires that business processes that handle personal data be built with data protection by design and by default. GDPR also requires that certain organizations appoint a Data Protection Officer (DPO).\n\nMost countries have their own computer emergency response team to protect network security.\n\nSince 2010, Canada has had a Cyber Security Strategy.This functions as a counterpart document to the National Strategy and Action Plan for Critical Infrastructure. The strategy has three main pillars: securing government systems, securing vital private cyber systems, and helping Canadians to be secure online. There is also a Cyber Incident Management Framework to provide a coordinated response in the event of a cyber incident.\n\nThe Canadian Cyber Incident Response Centre (CCIRC) is responsible for mitigating and responding to threats to Canada's critical infrastructure and cyber systems. It provides support to mitigate cyber threats, technical support to respond and recover from targeted cyber attacks, and provides online tools for members of Canada's critical infrastructure sectors. It posts regular cyber security bulletins and operates an online reporting tool where individuals and organizations can report a cyber incident. \n\nTo inform the general public on how to protect themselves online, Public Safety Canada has partnered with STOP.THINK.CONNECT, a coalition of non-profit, private sector, and government organizations, and launched the Cyber Security Cooperation Program. They also run the GetCyberSafe portal for Canadian citizens, and Cyber Security Awareness Month during October.\n\nPublic Safety Canada aims to begin an evaluation of Canada's Cyber Security Strategy in early 2015.\n\nChina's Central Leading Group for Internet Security and Informatization () was established on 27 February 2014. This Leading Small Group (LSG) of the Communist Party of China is headed by General Secretary Xi Jinping himself and is staffed with relevant Party and state decision-makers. The LSG was created to overcome the incoherent policies and overlapping responsibilities that characterized China's former cyberspace decision-making mechanisms. The LSG oversees policy-making in the economic, political, cultural, social and military fields as they relate to network security and IT strategy. This LSG also coordinates major policy initiatives in the international arena that promote norms and standards favored by the Chinese government and that emphasize the principle of national sovereignty in cyberspace.\n\nBerlin starts National Cyber Defense Initiative:\nOn 16 June 2011, the German Minister for Home Affairs, officially opened the new German NCAZ (National Center for Cyber Defense) Nationales Cyber-Abwehrzentrum located in Bonn. The NCAZ closely cooperates with BSI (Federal Office for Information Security) Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik, BKA (Federal Police Organisation) Bundeskriminalamt (Deutschland), BND (Federal Intelligence Service) Bundesnachrichtendienst, MAD (Military Intelligence Service) Amt für den Militärischen Abschirmdienst and other national organisations in Germany taking care of national security aspects. According to the Minister the primary task of the new organization founded on 23 February 2011, is to detect and prevent attacks against the national infrastructure and mentioned incidents like Stuxnet.\n\nSome provisions for cyber security have been incorporated into rules framed under the Information Technology Act 2000.\n\nThe National Cyber Security Policy 2013 is a policy framework by Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) which aims to protect the public and private infrastructure from cyber attacks, and safeguard \"information, such as personal information (of web users), financial and banking information and sovereign data\". CERT- In is the nodal agency which monitors the cyber threats in the country. The post of National Cyber Security Coordinator has also been created in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).\n\nThe Indian Companies Act 2013 has also introduced cyber law and cyber security obligations on the part of Indian directors.\nSome provisions for cyber security have been incorporated into rules framed under the Information Technology Act 2000 Update in 2013.\n\nFollowing cyber attacks in the first half of 2013, when the government, news media, television station, and bank websites were compromised, the national government committed to the training of 5,000 new cybersecurity experts by 2017. The South Korean government blamed its northern counterpart for these attacks, as well as incidents that occurred in 2009, 2011, and 2012, but Pyongyang denies the accusations.\n\nThe 1986 , the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act is the key legislation. It prohibits unauthorized access or damage of \"protected computers\" as defined in . Although various other measures have been proposed – none has succeeded.\n\nIn 2013, executive order \"Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity\" was signed, which prompted the creation of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework\n\nStandardized Government Testing Services \n\nThe General Services Administration (GSA) has standardized the \"penetration test\" service as a pre-vetted support service, to rapidly address potential vulnerabilities, and stop adversaries before they impact US federal, state and local governments. These services are commonly referred to as Highly Adaptive Cybersecurity Services (HACS) and are listed at the US GSA Advantage website.PSee more information here: enetration test#Standardized government penetration test services\n\nThe Department of Homeland Security has a dedicated division responsible for the response system, risk management program and requirements for cybersecurity in the United States called the National Cyber Security Division. The division is home to US-CERT operations and the National Cyber Alert System. The National Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center brings together government organizations responsible for protecting computer networks and networked infrastructure.\n\nThe third priority of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is to: \"Protect the United States against cyber-based attacks and high-technology crimes\", and they, along with the National White Collar Crime Center (NW3C), and the Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) are part of the multi-agency task force, The Internet Crime Complaint Center, also known as IC3.\n\nIn addition to its own specific duties, the FBI participates alongside non-profit organizations such as InfraGard.\n\nIn the criminal division of the United States Department of Justice operates a section called the Computer Crime and Intellectual Property Section. The CCIPS is in charge of investigating computer crime and intellectual property crime and is specialized in the search and seizure of digital evidence in computers and networks. In 2017, CCIPS published A Framework for a Vulnerability Disclosure Program for Online Systems to help organizations \"clearly describe authorized vulnerability disclosure and discovery conduct, thereby\nsubstantially reducing the likelihood that such described activities will result in a civil or criminal violation of law under the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act (18 U.S.C. § 1030).\" \n\nThe United States Cyber Command, also known as USCYBERCOM, is tasked with the defense of specified Department of Defense information networks and ensures \"the security, integrity, and governance of government and military IT infrastructure and assets\" It has no role in the protection of civilian networks.\n\nThe U.S. Federal Communications Commission's role in cybersecurity is to strengthen the protection of critical communications infrastructure, to assist in maintaining the reliability of networks during disasters, to aid in swift recovery after, and to ensure that first responders have access to effective communications services.\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration has issued guidance for medical devices, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration is concerned with automotive cybersecurity. After being criticized by the Government Accountability Office, and following successful attacks on airports and claimed attacks on airplanes, the Federal Aviation Administration has devoted funding to securing systems on board the planes of private manufacturers, and the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System. Concerns have also been raised about the future Next Generation Air Transportation System.\n\n\"Computer emergency response team\" is a name given to expert groups that handle computer security incidents.\nIn the US, two distinct organization exist, although they do work closely together.\n\nThere is growing concern that cyberspace will become the next theater of warfare. As Mark Clayton from the \"Christian Science Monitor\" described in an article titled \"The New Cyber Arms Race\":\n\nIn the future, wars will not just be fought by soldiers with guns or with planes that drop bombs. They will also be fought with the click of a mouse a half a world away that unleashes carefully weaponized computer programs that disrupt or destroy critical industries like utilities, transportation, communications, and energy. Such attacks could also disable military networks that control the movement of troops, the path of jet fighters, the command and control of warships.\nThis has led to new terms such as \"cyberwarfare\" and \"cyberterrorism\". The United States Cyber Command was created in 2009 and many other countries have similar forces.\n\nCybersecurity is a fast-growing field of IT concerned with reducing organizations' risk of hack or data breach. According to research from the Enterprise Strategy Group, 46% of organizations say that they have a \"problematic shortage\" of cybersecurity skills in 2016, up from 28% in 2015. Commercial, government and non-governmental organizations all employ cybersecurity professionals. The fastest increases in demand for cybersecurity workers are in industries managing increasing volumes of consumer data such as finance, health care, and retail. However, the use of the term \"cybersecurity\" is more prevalent in government job descriptions.\n\nTypical cyber security job titles and descriptions include:\nStudent programs are also available to people interested in beginning a career in cybersecurity. Meanwhile, a flexible and effective option for information security professionals of all experience levels to keep studying is online security training, including webcasts. A wide range of certified courses are also available.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a nationwide set of cyber security forums, known as the U.K Cyber Security Forum, were established supported by the Government's cyber security strategy in order to encourage start-ups and innovation and to address the skills gap identified by the U.K Government.\n\nThe following terms used with regards to computer security are explained below:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6128623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6128623", "title": "Devil Dance", "text": "Devil Dance\n\nDevil Dance is a Western description from the early 20th century for the Tibetan Buddhist ritual dances known as 'cham or Chhaam. Cham are often performed by monks in costume, and it is from these costumes that the description “devil dance” derives.\n\n'Cham are performed to purge, cleanse, combat evil, and bring good fortune, as well as to serve as a means of meditation for the participants.\n\nOne iteration of this dance is performed on the eve of Losar, the Tibetan new year to commemorate the assassination of the cruel Tibetan king, 'Langdarma' in the 9th century CE. It is a dance symbolising the victory of good over evil.\n"}
{"id": "294975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294975", "title": "Diethylstilbestrol", "text": "Diethylstilbestrol\n\nDiethylstilbestrol (DES), also known as stilbestrol or stilboestrol, is an estrogen medication which is mostly no longer used. In the past, it was widely used for a variety of indications including pregnancy support for women with a history of recurrent miscarriage, hormone therapy for menopausal symptoms and estrogen deficiency in women, treatment of prostate cancer in men and breast cancer in women, and other uses. While most commonly taken by mouth, DES was available for use by other routes as well, for instance vaginal, topical, and by injection.\nDES is an estrogen, or an agonist of the estrogen receptors, the biological target of estrogens like estradiol. It is a synthetic and nonsteroidal estrogen of the stilbestrol group, and differs from the natural estrogen estradiol in various ways. Compared to estradiol, DES has greatly improved bioavailability when taken by mouth, is more resistant to metabolism, and shows relatively increased effects in certain parts of the body like the liver and uterus. These differences result in DES having an increased risk of blood clots, cardiovascular issues, and certain other adverse effects.\nDES was discovered in 1938. From about 1940 to 1971, the medication was given to pregnant women in the incorrect belief it would reduce the risk of pregnancy complications and losses. In 1971, DES was shown to cause clear cell carcinoma, a rare vaginal tumor, in girls and women who had been exposed to this medication \"in utero\". The United States Food and Drug Administration subsequently withdrew approval of DES as a treatment for pregnant women. Follow-up studies have indicated that DES also has the potential to cause a variety of significant adverse medical complications during the lifetimes of those exposed.\n\nThe United States National Cancer Institute recommends women born to mothers who took DES undergo special medical exams on a regular basis to screen for complications as a result of the medication. Individuals who were exposed to DES during their mothers' pregnancies are commonly referred to as \"DES daughters\" and \"DES sons\". Since the discovery of the toxic effects of DES, it has largely been discontinued and is now mostly no longer marketed.\n\nDES has been used in the past for the following indications:\n\n\nInterest in the use of DES to treat prostate cancer in men continues today. However, some researchers have advocated for the use of bioidentical parenteral estrogens like polyestradiol phosphate in favor of oral synthetic estrogens like DES due to their much lower risk of cardiovascular toxicity. In addition to prostate cancer, some interest in the use of DES to treat breast cancer in women continues today as well. However, similarly to the case of prostate cancer, some researchers have argued for the use bioidentical estrogens like estradiol instead of DES for breast cancer.\n\nAt doses above 1 mg/day by mouth, DES is associated with high rates of side effects including nausea, vomiting, abdominal discomfort, headache, and bloating, with an incidence of 15 to 50%.\n\nIn studies of DES as a form of high-dose estrogen therapy for men with prostate cancer, it has been associated with considerable cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The risk is dose-dependent. A dosage of 5 mg/day DES has been associated with a 36% increase in non-cancer-related (mostly cardiovascular) deaths. In addition, there is an up to 15% incidence of venous thromboembolism. A 3 mg/day dosage of DES has been associated with an incidence of thromboembolism of 9.6 to 17%, with an incidence of cardiovascular complications of 33.3%. A lower dosage of 1 mg/day DES has been associated with a rate of death due to cardiovascular events of 14.8% (relative to 8.3% for orchiectomy alone).\n\nIn men treated with it for prostate cancer, DES has been found to produce high rates of gynecomastia (breast development) of 41 to 77%.\n\nDES has been linked to a variety of long-term adverse effects, such as increased risk of vaginal clear-cell adenocarcinoma, vaginal adenosis, T-shaped uterus, uterine fibroids, incompetent cervix, breast cancer, infertility, hypogonadism, intersex defects, depression, and others, in women who were treated with it during pregnancy and/or in their offspring.\n\nDES has been assessed in the past in clinical studies at extremely high dosages of as much as 1,500 mg/day.\n\nDES is an estrogen; specifically, it is a highly potent full agonist of both of the estrogen receptors (ERs). It has approximately 468% and 295% of the affinity of estradiol at the ERα and ERβ, respectively. However, EC values of 0.18 nM and 0.06 nM of DES for the ERα and ERβ, respectively, have been reported, suggesting, in spite of its binding affinity for the two receptors, several-fold preference for activation of the ERβ over the ERα.\n\nA dosage of 1 mg/day DES is approximately equivalent to a dosage of 50 µg/day ethinylestradiol in terms of systemic estrogenic potency. Similarly to ethinylestradiol, DES shows a marked and disproportionately strong effect on liver protein synthesis. Whereas its systemic estrogenic potency was about 3.8-fold of that of estropipate (piperazine estrone sulfate), which has similar potency to micronized estradiol, the hepatic estrogenic potency of DES was 28.4-fold that of estropipate (or about 7.5-fold stronger potency for a dosage with equivalent systemic estrogenic effect).\n\nDES has at least three mechanisms of action in the treatment of prostate cancer in men. It suppresses gonadal androgen production and hence circulating androgen levels due to its antigonadotropic effects; it stimulates hepatic sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG) production, thereby increasing circulating levels of SHBG and decreasing the free fraction of testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in the circulation; and it may have direct cytotoxic effects in the testes and prostate gland. DES has also been found to decrease DNA synthesis at high doses.\n\nDue to its estrogenic activity, DES has antigonadotropic effects. That is, it exerts negative feedback on the hypothalamic–pituitary–gonadal axis (HPG axis), suppresses the secretion of the gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and suppresses sex hormone production as well as gamete production or maturation in the gonads. DES suppresses testosterone levels in men into the castrate range (<50 ng/dL) within 1 to 2 weeks at doses of 3 mg/day and above. Conversely, a dosage of 1 mg/day DES is unable to fully suppress testosterone levels into the castrate range in men, which instead often stabilize at just above castrate levels (>50 ng/dL).\n\nIn addition to the ERs, an \"in vitro\" study found that DES also possesses activity, albeit relatively weak, at a variety of other steroid hormone receptors. Whereas the study found EC values of 0.18 nM and 0.06 nM of DES for the ERα and ERβ, respectively, the drug showed significant glucocorticoid activity at a concentration of 1 μM that surpassed that of 0.1 nM dexamethasone as well as significant antagonism of the androgen, progesterone, and mineralocorticoid receptors (75%, 85%, and 50% inhibition of positive control stimulation, respectively, at a concentration of 1 μM). It also showed approximately 25% inhibition of the activation of PPARγ and LXRα at a concentration of 10 μM. The researchers stated that, to the best of their knowledge, they were the first to report such actions of DES, and hypothesized that these actions could be involved in the clinical effects of DES, for instance, in prostate cancer (notably in which particularly high dosages of DES are employed). However, they also noted that the importance of the activities requires further study in animal models at pharmacologically relevant doses.\n\nDES has been identified as an antagonist of all three isotypes of the estrogen-related receptors (ERRs), the ERRα, ERRβ, and ERRγ.\n\nDES is well-absorbed with oral administration. With an oral dosage of 1 mg/day DES, plasma levels of DES at 20 hours following the last dose ranged between 0.9 to 1.9 ng/mL (3.4 to 7.1 nmol/L). The distribution half-life of DES is 80 minutes. It has no affinity for SHBG or corticosteroid-binding globulin, and hence is not bound to these proteins in the circulation. DES is metabolized mainly by glucuronidation and oxidation, with the latter including aromatic hydroxylation of the ethyl side chains and dehydrogenation into (\"Z\",\"Z\")-dienestrol. It is also known to produce paroxypropione as a metabolite. DES produces transient quinone-like reactive intermediates that cause cellular and genetic damage, which may explain the known carcinogenic effects of DES in humans. However, other research suggests that the toxic effects of DES may simply be due to overactivation of the ERs. The elimination half-life of DES is 24 hours.\n\nDES belongs to the stilbestrol (4,4'-dihydroxystilbene) group of compounds. It is a nonsteroidal open-ring analogue of the steroidal estrogen estradiol. DES was derived from the naturally occurring compound anethole, a weakly estrogenic constituent of anise and fennel. Anethole was demethylated to form anol and anol then spontaneously dimerized into dianol and hexestrol, with DES subsequently being synthesized via structural modification of hexestrol. It has been determined via X-ray crystallography that the molecular dimensions of DES are almost identical to those of estradiol, particularly in regards to the distance between the hydroxyl groups at either end of the molecules.\n\nDES was first synthesized in early 1938 by Leon Golberg, then a graduate student of Sir Robert Robinson at the Dyson Perrins Laboratory at the University of Oxford. Golberg's research was based on work by Wilfrid Lawson at the Courtauld Institute of Biochemistry, (led by Sir Edward Charles Dodds at Middlesex Hospital Medical School now part of University College London). A report of its synthesis was published in \"Nature\" on 5 February 1938.\n\nDES research was funded by the UK Medical Research Council (MRC), which had a policy against patenting drugs discovered using public funds. Because it was not patented, DES was produced by more than 200 pharmaceutical and chemical companies worldwide.\n\nDES (in tablets up to 5 mg) was approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on September 19, 1941 for four indications: gonorrheal vaginitis, atrophic vaginitis, menopausal symptoms, and postpartum lactation suppression to prevent breast engorgement. The gonorrheal vaginitis indication was dropped when the antibiotic penicillin became available. From its very inception, the drug was highly controversial.\n\nIn 1941, Charles Huggins and Clarence Hodges at the University of Chicago found DES to be the first effective drug for the treatment of metastatic prostate cancer.\n\nOrchiectomy or DES or both were the standard initial treatment for symptomatic advanced prostate cancer for over 40 years, until the GnRH agonist leuprorelin was found to have efficacy similar to DES without estrogenic effects and was approved in 1985.\n\nFrom the 1940s until the late 1980s, DES was FDA-approved as estrogen-replacement therapy for estrogen deficiency states such as ovarian dysgenesis, premature ovarian failure, and after oophorectomy.\n\nIn the 1940s, DES was used off-label to prevent adverse pregnancy outcomes in women with a history of miscarriage. On July 1, 1947, the FDA approved the use of DES for this indication. The first such approval was granted to Bristol-Myers Squibb, allowing use of 25 mg (and later 100 mg) tablets of DES during pregnancy. Approvals were granted to other pharmaceutical companies later in the same year. The recommended regimen started at 5 mg per day in the seventh and eighth weeks of pregnancy (from first day of last menstrual period), increased every other week by 5 mg per day through the 14th week, and then increased every week by 5 mg per day from 25 mg per day in the 15th week to 125 mg per day in the 35th week of pregnancy. \nDES was originally considered effective and safe for both the pregnant woman and the developing baby. It was aggressively marketed and routinely prescribed. Sales peaked in 1953.\n\nIn the early 1950s, a double-blind clinical trial at the University of Chicago assessed pregnancy outcomes in women who were assigned to either receive or not receive DES. \nThe study showed no benefit of taking DES during pregnancy; adverse pregnancy outcomes were not reduced in the women who were given DES. By the late 1960s, six of seven leading textbooks of obstetrics said DES was ineffective at preventing miscarriage.\n\nDespite an absence of evidence supporting the use of DES to prevent adverse pregnancy outcomes, DES continued to be given to pregnant women through the 1960s. In 1971, a report published in the \"New England Journal of Medicine\" showed a probable link between DES and vaginal clear cell adenocarcinoma in girls and young women who had been exposed to this drug \"in utero\". Later in the same year, the FDA sent an FDA Drug Bulletin to all U.S. physicians advising against the use of DES in pregnant women. The FDA also removed prevention of miscarriage as an indication for DES use and added pregnancy as a contraindication for DES use. On February 5, 1975, the FDA ordered 25 mg and 100 mg tablets of DES withdrawn, effective February 18, 1975. The number of persons exposed to DES during pregnancy or \"in utero\" during 1940–1971 is unknown, but may be as high as 2 million in the United States. DES was also used in other countries, most notably France, the Netherlands, and Great Britain.\n\nFrom the 1950s through the beginning of the 1970s, DES was prescribed to prepubescent girls to begin puberty and thus stop growth by closing growth plates in the bones. Despite its clear link to cancer, doctors continued to recommend the hormone for \"excess height\".\n\nIn 1960, DES was found to be more effective than androgens in the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women. DES was the hormonal treatment of choice for advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women until 1977, when the FDA approved tamoxifen, a selective estrogen receptor modulator with efficacy similar to DES but fewer side effects.\n\nSeveral sources from medical literature in the 1970s and 1980s indicate that DES was used for treatment of transgender individuals.\n\nIn 1973, in an attempt to restrict off-label use of DES as a postcoital contraceptive (which had become prevalent at many university health services following publication of an influential study in 1971 in \"JAMA\") to emergency situations such as rape, an \"FDA Drug Bulletin\" was sent to all U.S. physicians and pharmacists that said the FDA had approved, under restricted conditions, postcoital contraceptive use of DES.\n\nIn 1975, the FDA said it had not actually given (and never did give) approval to any manufacturer to market DES as a postcoital contraceptive, but would approve that indication for emergency situations such as rape or incest if a manufacturer provided patient labeling and special packaging as set out in a FDA final rule published in 1975. To discourage off-label use of DES as a postcoital contraceptive, the FDA in 1975 removed DES 25 mg tablets from the market and ordered the labeling of lower doses (5 mg and lower) of DES still approved for other indications changed to state: \"This drug product should not be used as a postcoital contraceptive\" in block capital letters on the first line of the physician prescribing information package insert and in a prominent and conspicuous location of the container and carton label. In the 1980s, off-label use of the Yuzpe regimen of certain regular combined oral contraceptive pills superseded off-label use of DES as a postcoital contraceptive.\n\nIn 1978, the FDA removed postpartum lactation suppression to prevent breast engorgement from their approved indications for DES and other estrogens. In the 1990s, the only approved indications for DES were treatment of advanced prostate cancer and treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women. The last remaining U.S. manufacturer of DES, Eli Lilly, stopped making and marketing it in 1997.\n\nIn the 1970s, the negative publicity surrounding the discovery of DES's long-term effects resulted in a huge wave of lawsuits in the United States against its manufacturers. These culminated in a landmark 1980 decision of the Supreme Court of California, \"Sindell v. Abbott Laboratories\", in which the court imposed a rebuttable presumption of market share liability upon all DES manufacturers, proportional to their share of the market at the time the drug was consumed by the mother of a particular plaintiff.\n\nA lawsuit was filed in Boston Federal Court by 53 DES daughters who say their breast cancers were the result of DES being prescribed to their mothers while pregnant with them. Their cases survived a Daubert hearing. In 2013, the Fecho sisters who initiated the breast cancer/DES link litigation agreed to an undisclosed settlement amount on the second day of trial. The remaining litigants have received various settlements.\n\nAlan Turing, the ground breaking cryptographer, founder of computing science and programmable computers, who also proposed the actual theoretical model of biological morphogenesis, was forced onto the medication to induce chemical castration as a punitive \"treatment\" for homosexual behaviour, shortly before he died in ambiguous circumstances.\n\nDES has been very successful in treating female canine incontinence stemming from poor sphincter control. It is still available from compounding pharmacies, and at the low (1 mg) dose, does not have the carcinogenic properties that were so problematic in humans. It is generally administered once a day for seven to ten days and then once every week as needed.\n\nThe greatest usage of DES was in the livestock industry, used to improve feed conversion in beef and poultry. During the 1960s, DES was used as a growth hormone in the beef and poultry industries. It was later found to cause cancer by 1971, but was not phased out until 1979. When DES was discovered to be harmful to humans, it was moved to veterinary use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2989256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2989256", "title": "Digital film festivals", "text": "Digital film festivals\n\nDigital film festivals emerged in the mid to late 1990s, to showcase artists and filmmakers utilizing the nascent tools of desktop digital filmmaking.\n\nDigital films and animation are now commonly found in mainstream film festivals, but these events laid the groundwork for pioneering works in the area as useful nexus points for digital artists and debates on digital distribution and creation.\n\nThe earliest digital film festivals included the MiniDV Festival (now called The Digital Video Festival) in Los Angeles, Low Res (later to split into the DFilm and RESFest events), onedotzero, and Exploding Cinema (the International Film Festival Rotterdam digital cinema sidebar). Other digital film festivals include .Mov (Japan), Darklight (Ireland), Bifilm (Germany), MP4Fest at Silver Lake Film Festival (Los Angeles, CA), 0110 (India), Clone (Norway), as well as onedotzero's international network of events across 60 cities worldwide, among others.\n\nThese festivals stretch the traditional boundaries of 'film festivals' by including hybrid works from internet art, web animation, computer and video gaming, streaming video, music video, etc.\n\nIn 2008, the Paso Digital Film Festival set new standards and for the past 6 years has moved between #1 and #3 on all the\nmajor search engines when you enter \"digital film festivals\". The Event was held in November 2008, and was attended by the likes of Clint Eastwood and 20 people from Eastwood's film company Malpaso including his Academy Award-winning editor Joel Cox, also attending was Sir Nigel Sinclair, Cass Warner the granddaughter of Jack Warner, musicians Johnny Rivers, Ramblin' Jack Elliott, Kyle Eastwood (Clint's son), TV actors Gary Conway and Max Gail, Kevin Bacon and his band The Bacon Brothers, and many others. The festival included a day of 3-D with some of the early pioneers in 3-D from LA attend and show independent 3D movies. Elements of the festival was streamed live online from the website.\n\nIn 2013, the Digital Media Festival in Silicon Valley set another standard with a full shift from the world of \"film\" to the new age of \"Digital Media\" and staged in the Digital Capitol of the world Silicon Valley, California. Attended by some great filmmakers from San Francisco and Los Angeles, including Cass Warner, from the great Warner Brothers family, Len Dell'Amico long time music video producer working with the greats and known as \"the Grateful Dead's Video Guy\", author and photographer Chris Felver, author and Stanford U. professor Fred Turner, actor Max Gail and others... \n\n"}
{"id": "19008606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19008606", "title": "Djurgårdsteatern", "text": "Djurgårdsteatern\n\nDjurgårsdteatern (Swedish for \"Djurgården Theatre\"), was an historical Swedish theatre, active at Djurgården in Stockholm between 1801 and 1929 (from 1863 in a new building).\n\nIt was the only theatre in Stockholm outside the royal theatres during the monopol of the royal theatres between 1799 and 1842, and it also played an important part in abolishing this royal monopol. Until 1842, it was a \"summer theatre\", but later, it became an all-year theatre and an important one, called the \"theatre of the people\". It was described as a wood building with the same exterior of a barn, and was painted yellow.\n\nIn 1795, Abraham de Broen (1759–1804), actor at the Royal Dramatic Theatre, asked for the permission to build and run a theatre, and a theatre-privilege were given to himself, his wife and their children for as long as they wished to use it. In 1798, a new theatre monopoly was stated, which banned all theatres except the royal ones inside the city border of Stockholm.\n\nWhen the Djurgårdsteatern was opened in 1801, however, it was located on Djurgården, at the time an island outside the city itself, and furthermore, it was not what was counted as a \"real theatre\"; it was what was called a \"summer theatre\", active only in summers, and often called \"The Summer stage\". Thereby, it did not threaten the royal monopoly.\n\nThe staff at the theatre was described as \"former footmen and maids\", and it was often used as a stage for travelling theatre troupes passing through Stockholm, but many of the actors from the Royal Dramatic theatre and the Royal Swedish Opera made guest performances, making their débuts and started their careers here. The actors at Djurgårsteatern also toured on the country side. It was described as a smaller, more informal and less high pitched theatre. After the death of Abraham de Broen, it was managed by his widow Maria Elisabeth Grundt and his son, actor Isaac de Broen.\n\nIn the 1830s, Djurgårdsteatern entered a new age when it was the place of the abolishment of the royal theatre privilege in Stockholm. After the great theatre strike on the Royal Dramatic theatre by the actor couple Ulrik Torsslow and Sara Torsslow in 1834, the Torsslow couple left the royal theatre along with many other stars, who started to perform the Djurgårdsteatern in summer and in \"Kirsteinska huset\", a concert house, in winter. The director of the Djurgården theatre, Isaac de Broen's brother-in-law Karl Wildner, married to Debora Aurora de Broen, then transferred the old theatre privilege of the de Broen-family on Torsslow and Pierre Deland, who worked on abolishing the old theatre regulation. In the 1841-1842 season, Torsslow stated, that he would start to play on Djurgårsteatern in the winters as well, no matter if he was stopped or not, and as the government did not wish to stop him, the old regulation was formally abolished in 1842. This quickly led to the establishment of several new theatres, such as \"Mindre teatern\" (or \"Nya teatern\") in 1842, \"Södra teatern\" (1852) and \"Ladugårdslandsteatern\" (1856).\n\nIn 1863, Djurgårdsteatern burnt down, and the de Broen's privilege was abolished, but it was rebuilt again in 1866-67 and continued with its activity until it burnt down again in 1929.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28013942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28013942", "title": "East-East", "text": "East-East\n\nEast-East is a multiplex architectural event jointly held by the Lithuanian and Japanese architects and students of architecture.\n\nThe concept of the Lithuania-Japan architectural event was conceived and its implementation coordinated by Dainius Kamaitis, a Lithuanian diplomat and former ambassador to Japan. He paved the way for the bilateral exchange in the field of architecture by approaching both sides with a proposal to establish links which had not existed before. The idea was successfully implemented in Kaunas in cooperation with the Kaunas City Municipality and the Kaunas Section of the Architects Association of Lithuania in 2002. As the event enjoyed a considerable acclaim on both sides, following new initiatives by D.Kamaitis, subsequent architectural forums were implemented in Vilnius, Tokyo and Kaunas, in 2009, 2011 and 2013, accordingly. All the events received full support from the Architects Association of Lithuania and Japan Institute of Architects.\n\nThe name East-East is derived from the concept that Lithuania is located in the east of Europe, while Japan lies in the east of Asia. It implies mutual understanding, close cooperation and harmony.\n\nThe initial target of establishing the links between the Lithuanian and Japanese architects has been achieved already. The long-term objectives are to strengthen the ties and make the joint events into a tradition, in order to foster continuous interaction not only between architects, but between students of architecture as well. The students' exchange is recognized by both sides as bearing particular importance to developing the future relations.\n\nEast-East spans almost a week and is built on three pillars:\n\nThe first event was held between July 30 and August 1, 2002, in Kaunas, at Mykolas Žilinskas Art Gallery. The Japanese delegation was led by the 1993 Pritzker Prize (often referred to as the Nobel Prize of architecture) winner Fumihiko Maki and included seven leading Japanese architects Taro Ashihara, Chiaki Arai, Tetsuo Furuichi, George Kunihiro, Koh Kitayama, Hidetoshi Ohno and Kengo Kuma.\n\nThe keynote presentation by Fumihiko Maki who was awarded with the honorary membership of the Architects Association of Lithuania, aroused considerable public interest. On behalf of the host side, Linas Tuleikis, Chairman of the Kaunas Section of the Architects Association of Lithuania, gave a lecture on the contemporary Lithuanian architecture.\n\nJoint exhibition of works by the Lithuanian and Japanese architects kicked off at the very outset of the event. It was honoured by the very presence of Valdas Adamkus, President of Lithuania. Besides the works of the Japanese architects present at the event, those of Nobuaki Furuya, Kazuo Iwamura, Atsushi Kitagawara, Hiroshi Naito, Tadasu Ohe and Ken Yokogawa were exhibited as well. On the Lithuanian side of the exhibition, the works of Vilius Adomavičius, Audrius Ambrasas, Artūras Asauskas, Gintaras Čaikauskas, Darius Čiuta, Gediminas Jurevičius, Algimantas Kančas, Audrys Karalius, Šarūnas Kiaunė, Kęstutis Kisielius, Sigitas Kuncevičius, Saulius Mikštas, Gintautas Natkevičius, Rolandas Palekas, Saulius Pamerneckis, Kęstutis Pempė, Ramūnas Raslavičius were presented.\n\nA public seminar was held on July 30–31. It was divided into the following five sessions:\n\nA broad and interesting discussion on the above topics evolved. The Japanese architects presented their ideas featuring their own practical applications, while their Lithuanian counterparts Tomas Grunskis, Jūratė Tutlytė, Vytautas Petrušonis and Jonas Audėjaitis were more concerned with theoretical generalization.\n\nThe workshop was held between July 27 and August 1 at Kaunas Art Institute of Vilnius Academy of Arts, dealing with the acute issue which Kaunas is facing in relation to adjacent rivers. During the Soviet period of the Lithuanian history, rapidly developing industry in Kaunas city left a significant trace in its urban fabric. After the restoration of independence, most of the bigger industrial plants built on the bank of Nemunas river were closed. As a result, and also due to the transport reorganization scheme implemented during the Soviet period, despite its unique location on the confluence of two rivers, the city has virtually lost any contact with them.\n\nThe workshop groups were given the task to find effective points and propose a unique architectural concept which would facilitate the return of picturesque but desolated riverside areas back to the city.\n\nA group of 17 Japanese and 19 Lithuanian students were split into 6 mixed teams. Design named \"Tunnels\" (by Io Kato, Shunsuke Tomida, Hiroaki Kishimoto, Tomas Kučinskas, Aurėja Leskauskaitė, Eivaras Rastauskas) was selected as the winning entry. \"Parasite\" was awarded with the second prize, and the third award went to \"Magic Box\".\n\nThe students represented the following higher institutions:\n\nThe second event took place in Vilnius and was held at Vilnius City Municipality and Contemporary Art Centre between June 30 and July 4, 2009. The renowned architect Riken Yamamoto led the Japanese delegation which included Taro Ashihara, George Kunihiro, Ken Yokogawa, Nobuaki Furuya, Takaharu Tezuka, Taira Nishizawa, Manabu Chiba and Hiroshi Sambuichi. At the opening of the event, Riken Yamamoto delivered the keynote lecture at Vilnius City Municipality.\n\nFive Japanese architects Takaharu Tezuka, Taira Nishizawa, Manabu Chiba, Hiroshi Sambuichi and Shuhei Endo (the latter was not present at the event himself) exhibited their works under the title \"New Wave of Japanese Architecture 2009\" at Vilnius City Municipality.\n\nOn July 1, a public seminar was held at Contemporary Art Centre, featuring lectures by two speakers from each side, followed by a discussion. Taro Ashihara and Tomas Grunskis presented their views on public space as the focus of life in a city, and the philosophy of the traditional house was introduced by Ken Yokogawa and Gintaras Čaikauskas.\n\nDiscussion on architecture was continued on July 3 at the international conference \"Architecture: a Part of Culture (?)\" held at Vilnius Town Hall. George Kunihiro and Nobuaki Furuya were among the lecturers.\n\nFour mixed groups comprising 10 students each from Japan and Lithuania generated ideas aimed at the recovery of a problematic area. The point at issue – Park of Architecture, an area of about 58 hectares in one of the most beautiful locations in close proximity to Vilnius Old Town. Since the 19th century, noxious and polluting industries were developed there, which resulted in the loss of interface between the area and its natural environment, architectural integrity and broken functional and social links with the city. The workshop was therefore tasked with proposing \"hot spots\" which would help in resurrecting the Park of Architecture and give new life to this socially degraded part of Vilnius city.\n\nOn July 4, during the presentation of works at Cultural Platform KultFlux located next to Mindaugas Bridge, the design named \"Valley\" (by Hiroshi Yamada, Hiroyuki Nogami, Ježi Stankevič, Marius Ščerbinskas and Rasa Chmieliauskaitė, consultant architects George Kunihiro and Gintaras Čaikauskas) was selected as the winner. The idea of a valley was proposed as a public space, part of which would have to be flooded with water. Thus the once industrial plants surrounded with water would be turned into buildings for public use: swimming pool, theater, cinema etc. Elevated horizontal surfaces would be erected between the buildings in order to link the former plants with the land, serving as public spaces for communication and leisure.\n\nThe students represented the following higher institutions:\n\nThe third event was held in Tokyo at Japan Institute of Architects, Ginza TS Building and Gyoko-dori Underground Gallery between May 31 and June 4, 2011. The Lithuanian delegation included ten leading architects Gražina Janulytė-Bernotienė, Gintaras Balčytis, Linas Tuleikis, Algimantas Kančas, Gintaras Čaikauskas, Linas Naujokaitis, Rolandas Palekas, Marius Šaliamoras, Donaldas Trainauskas, Gintautas Vieversys and 10 students of architecture.\n\nJapanese and Lithuanian architects exhibited their designs at Gyoko-dori Underground Gallery between June 1 and 29. It was a part of an exhibition UIA2011 TOKYO 111 Days Before which kicked off as a pre-event to the 24th World Congress of Architecture in Tokyo (UIA2011).\n\nThe Lithuanian part of the exhibition included works by architectural firms, project teams and individual architects. Firms represented:\n\nKančo studija, Ambraso architektų biuras, G.Natkevičius ir partneriai, E.Miliūno studija, R.Paleko Arch-studija, Architektūros estetikos studija, Vilius ir partneriai, Vilniaus architektūros studija, Laimos ir Ginto projektai, G.Janulytės-Bernotienės studija, 4PLIUS, Architektūros linija, Gečia, Dviejų grupė, Urbanistika.\n\nProject teams and individual architects included:\n\nTadas Balčiūnas, Vytautas Biekša, Marius Kanevičius; Jūras Balkevičius, (late) Vytautas Čekanauskas, Lina Masliukienė, Marius Šaliamoras, Algirdas Umbrasas; Kęstutis Pempė, Gytis Ramunis; Darius Čiuta, Gintaras Auželis; Alvydas Šeibokas, Gabrielis Malžinskas; Andrius Skiezgelas, Aleksandras Kavaliauskas, Martynas Nagelė; Kęstutis Lupeikis.\n\nJapanese participants displayed their own individual designs:\n\nFumihiko Maki, Riken Yamamoto, Chiaki Arai, Kazuo Iwamura, Tetsuo Furuichi, Ken Yokogawa, Hidetoshi Ohno, Taro Ashihara, Koh Kitajama, George Kunihiro, Kengo Kuma, Nobuaki Furuya, Tadasu Ohe, Manabu Chiba, Shuhei Endo, Makoto Yokomizo, Takaharu Tezuka+Yui Tezuka, Atelier Bow-Wow, Hiroshi Sambuichi, Takenori Naka, Masakatsu Matsuyama, Kumiko Inui, Yoshiaki Tanaka, Yukihide Mizuno, Shinichiro Akasaka, Osamu Fujita, Makoto Maeda, Ryuichi Ashizawa, Shogo Aratani, Yasutaka Yoshimura, Kazuhide Doi, Koichi Furumori, Tsukasa Kinjo, Yukiko Nadamoto, Hiroshi Nakamura, TNA Makoto Takei+Chie Nabeshima, Keisuke Maeda, Yuuoh Mino, Koji Kimi, Koji Nakawatase.\n\nOn June 4, a public seminar under the title 'Billows Over the Architecture and Cities in the 21st century' was held at Japan Institute of Architects. It provided a platform to exchange ideas for a better future of architecture, emerging from the need to address the issues of climate change, population decrease in industrialized countries, economic conflict between the old developed countries and rising economies and safety of nuclear power. These changes are on par with the industrial revolution in the 19th century, and will be followed by the paradigm shift in the fundamentals of knowledge, economy and society.\n\nThe seminar featured lectures by three speakers from each side. Gintaras Čaikauskas, Linas Naujokaitis and Linas Tuleikis presented the Lithuanian views, while Hidetoshi Ohno, Nobuaki Furuya and Manabu Chiba discussed the topic from the Japanese perspective.\n\nThe workshop was held between May 31 and June 3 at Ginza TS Building. 10 Lithuanian and 11 Japanese students were split into four mixed groups and tasked with creating an attractive Ginza District in central Tokyo by means of new urban interventions.\n\nFor that purpose, each group made research and design proposals on one of the four themes: conservation and contemporary interpretation of historical buildings, vertical circulation between small-sized commercial buildings, facade/skin design of a humongous redeveloped building, and open space utilization of public/private properties. The completed designs were presented at the seminar on June 4.\n\nThe students represented the following higher institutions:\n\n\nThe students participants list:\n\nJapanese students\nShogo Nagata, Eri Ohara, Kenta Sasaki, Hinako Hagino, Rei Yamaguchi, Masamitsu Tanikawa, Takeaki Yokoi, Masaru Iijima, Takahiro Idenoshita, Mayumi Suzumoto, Rei Koizumi.\nLithuanian students\nMykolas Svirskis, Antanas Šarkauskas, Ieva Bartkevičiūtė, Matas Šiupšinskas, Ieva Cicėnaitė, Vytenis Raugala, Rasa Marozaitė, Aistė Tarutytė, Mantas Gipas, Andrius Vilčinskas.\n\nFor the first time, the fourth East-East forum was incorporated in the framework of another event and was held on September 23–27, 2013 in Kaunas at Žalgiris Arena as part of Kaunas Architecture Festival (KAFe), an international event of contemporary architecture spanning two months.\n\nNotably, East-East 4 received support from the Asia-Europe Foundation (ASEF) and its partners under the second edition of Creative Encounters – Cultural Partnerships between Asia and Europe. Creative Encounters is a programme developed by ASEF in partnership with Arts Network Asia (ANA), an Asia-wide network of artists and arts organisations, and in cooperation with Trans Europe Halles (TEH), the European Network of Creative Arts Spaces.\n\nThe Japanese delegation included architects Manabu Chiba, Nobuaki Furuya, Kazuko Akamatsu, Masahiro Harada, Koichi Yasuda, Toshikatsu Ienari, Akiko Miya and Takeshi Hosaka.\n\nAt the closing of the event, Ryue Nishizawa, laureate of the Pritzker Prize (2010), delivered a keynote lecture on behalf of Sejima and Nishizawa and Associates (SANAA).\n\nOn September 24, Japanese and Lithuanian architects unveiled their works at a joint exhibition which lasted until October 16. Besides the works of the Japanese architects who were present at the event, SANAA, Sou Fujimoto and Kazuhiro Kojima displayed their designs as well.\n\nThe Lithuanian architects represented at the exhibition were: Šarūno Kiaunės projektavimo studija, R.Paleko Arch-studija, a.s.a. Sigito Kuncevičiaus projektavimo firma, Andrė Baldi, Aketuri architektai, L&G projektai, G.Natkevičius ir partneriai, E.Miliūno studija, Kančo studija, G.Janulytės-Bernotienės studija, Baltas fonas, Gintaras Kuginys, Darius Čaplinskas, Andrius Ciplijauskas, Gediminas Bulavas, Eventus Pro, Projektavimo ir restauravimo institutas, Darius Čiuta, 4PLIUS.\n\nFor the first time, the usual public seminar was substituted by two sets of lectures by the Japanese architects. On September 24, Toshikatsu Ienari, Akiko Miya and Koichi Yasuda presented their views on architecture, while Nobuaki Furuya and Manabu Chiba lectured on September 27.\n\nThe workshop was held between September 24 and 26. 11 Lithuanian and 7 Japanese students formed four mixed groups to challenge the task \"The City Centre and Its Relationship With Rivers\".\n\nThe idea of re-designing the waterfront area of Kaunas city was revisited after 11 years since East-East 1. Kaunas has exceptional features, as it had been built on the confluence of two large rivers. However, this authentic geographic context remains almost unused in the urban life. Therefore, finding ways to bring the waterfront to the center of everyday life was the core architectural task for the workshop.\n\nOn September 27, the presentation and exhibition of completed designs was held. The jury made of Japanese and Lithuanian architects selected the winning proposal \"Floating Towers\" (by Ayako Motai, Medeina Kurtinaitytė, Simon Tsing Shan Mok, Antanas Šarkauskas and Vytautas Lelys).\n\nThe students represented the following higher institutions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30234829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30234829", "title": "Els Enfarinats", "text": "Els Enfarinats\n\nThe annual festival of Els Enfarinats () takes place in the town of Ibi in Alicante, Spain on December 28, as part of celebrations related to the Day of the Innocents. Els enfarinats comes from the Valencian word for \"breading\", and roughly translate to \"the breaded ones\" or \"the floured ones\". In the day-long festival, participants known as the Els Enfarinats dress in mock military dress and stage a mock \"coup d'état\". Meanwhile, the Casats i Fadrins, accompanied by a band of street musicians called the Rondalla, known by the name of Sonet, Xirimita and Tabal, tour the city.\nAt 8am, the Els Enfarinats take the city under the slogan \"New Justice\", and at 9am the Race for Mayor will take place in which it will be decided who is to be Mayor of the Els Enfarinats. Then, the act of \"L'Aixavegó\" is carried out in the \"Plaça de l'Església\" (Church Square), where the Els Enfarinats reside. Here, it is decided that those who do not pay the fine will go to jail. At midday, a collection called the Arreplegada dels Enfarinats takes place through the streets of the old quarter and of the city centre of Ibi, terminating in the Sant Joaquim Sanctuary. They exercise their authority under a blaze of fireworks, flour bombs and eggs. At five o'clock in the afternoon the authority of Els Enfarinats comes to an end giving way to the celebration of the traditional \"Dansà\".\n\nThe tradition is over 200 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "12739226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12739226", "title": "Fall of Assur", "text": "Fall of Assur\n\nThe Fall of Assur occurred when the first city and old capital of the Neo-Assyrian Empire fell to Median forces. The sack of the city that followed utterly destroyed the city; it would never recover from the destruction.\n\nEver since the end of Ashurbanipal's reign (and some speculate years before) the Neo-Assyrian Empire was in exposed and critical position; revolts in Babylon and in the Levant coupled with Median invasions proved too much for an empire torn with civil war. In 616 BC, the Babylonians established their \"de facto\" independence.\n\nIn 615 BC, the Medes conquered Arrapha. The next year, they began a terrible siege of Assur. Much of what was left of the Assyrian army was in Nineveh, unable to assist. Finally, after a bloody hand-to-hand combat (many skulls and skeletons were later found), it appears that the city was taken in 614 BC.\n"}
{"id": "2364505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2364505", "title": "Fantasia International Film Festival", "text": "Fantasia International Film Festival\n\nFantasia International Film Festival (also known as Fantasia-fest, FanTasia, Fant-Asia) is a genre film festival that has been based mainly in Montreal since its founding in 1996. Regularly held in July of each year, it is valued by both hardcore genre film fans, and distributors, who take advantage of the eclectic line up to select foreign and domestic films for release across North America. By virtue of the reputation developed over the last 15 years, this festival has been described as perhaps the \"most outstanding and largest genre film festival in North America\".\n\nThe history of the Fantasia Festival has roots in the Asian Film scene in Montreal. Beginning in 1996 where it screened Asian films from Hong Kong and Anime from Japan, the festival later expanded its international repertoire and screened genre films from all across the world. Since this time many world and international premieres have featured at Fantasia fest, including \"Shaun of the Dead\", \"Perfect Blue\", \"Millennium Actress\", \"Midnight Meat Train\", \"Dread\", \"The Sorcerer’s Apprentice\" and \"Uzumaki\".\nAmong the many North American premieres have included \"Ringu\", \"Inglourious Basterds\", \"Thirst\", \"We Are What We Are\", \"Visitor Q\" and \"Night Watch\".\n\n\"The Creeping Garden\" was one of the featured films in the 2014 Festival.\n\nFantasia 2012 featured the screenings of the films \"Toad Road\", \"Doomsday Book\", the horror anthology film \"V/H/S\", \"Hidden in the Woods (original version)\", \"Seediq Bale\", and Quentin Dupieux's \"Wrong\".\n\nFantasia 2011 opened the 2011 edition of the festival with the Canadian Premiere of \"Red State\". The festival also featured the presentation to John Landis of a lifetime Achievement award. The Canadian premiere of the director's new film, \"Burke and Hare\" also took place. Also notable was the world premiere of the Swedish horror film \"Marianne\", which some had hailed as one of the great discoveries in genre cinema of 2011. The world premiere of \"Final Destination 5\" was part of Fantasia 15.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47410026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47410026", "title": "HackBB", "text": "HackBB\n\nHackBB was a Tor hidden service Internet forum specializing in buying stolen credit cards, skimming ATMs, and hacking computers, servers and accounts. The site was often a destination for hacked and stolen data dumps. At some point the site was hosted by Tor hosting company Freedom Hosting.\n\nThe site was founded by 'OptimusCrime' in the earlier days of Tor. In June 2012, user 'Boneless' was promoted to an administrator role, who went on to handle site escrow. However, in March 2013 Boneless's account was used to destroy the site's database, and again in May by some accounts he secretly created. The site initially recovered from this, but shut down sometime afterwards due to the loss of faith in the site's administration and the raid on its host Freedom Hosting in August 2013.\n"}
{"id": "762156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762156", "title": "John Petrucci", "text": "John Petrucci\n\nJohn Peter Petrucci (born July 12, 1967) is an American guitarist, composer and producer. He is best known as a founding member of the progressive metal band Dream Theater. With his former bandmate Mike Portnoy, he produced all Dream Theater albums from 1999's \"\" to 2009's \"Black Clouds & Silver Linings\". He has been the sole producer of the band's albums released since Portnoy's departure in 2010. Petrucci was named as the third player on the G3 tour seven times, more than any other invited guitarist. Joel McIver's 2009 book \"The 100 Greatest Metal Guitarists\" ranks Petrucci second, after Dave Mustaine. He was also named as one of the \"Top 10 Greatest Guitar Shredders of All Time\" by \"GuitarOne\" magazine. In 2012, Petrucci was ranked the 17th greatest guitarist of all time by a \"Guitar World\" magazine reader's poll.\n\nJohn Peter Petrucci was born on July 12, 1967, in Kings Park, New York, to an Italian-American family. He picked up the guitar at the age of eight because his older sister was allowed to go to bed later in order to practice the piano. However, he decided to quit the guitar when his attempts to stay up late were unsuccessful. He picked up the guitar again at the age of 12. Petrucci has said he committed to practicing guitar 6 hours a day when he discovered it was his passion. His early influences were bands like Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath, AC/DC, and later developed an interest in progressive rock and heavy metal, exemplified by Rush, Yes, Iron Maiden, Dixie Dregs and Metallica.\n\nEventually, his childhood friend and future Dream Theater keyboardist Kevin Moore invited Petrucci to join his cover band. Petrucci attended Berklee College of Music in Boston with childhood friend John Myung (bass), where they met future bandmate Mike Portnoy (drums). While in Berklee they often covered two of their biggest influences, Iron Maiden and Rush. These three, in addition to Kevin Moore, formed the band Majesty. Because there was already another band with the same name, the group later became Dream Theater.\n\nWhile Petrucci is most commonly associated with Dream Theater, he is also in the project band Liquid Tension Experiment, and has appeared as a guest on records by other artists, such as the \"Age of Impact\" album by the Explorer's Club.\n\nPetrucci has released a guitar instructional video, \"Rock Discipline\", which covers warm-up exercises, exercises to avoid injury while playing, alternate picking, sweep picking, chords and other techniques for developing one's guitar playing. Petrucci also has a book named \"Guitar World presents John Petrucci's Wild Stringdom\", which was compiled from columns he wrote for Guitar World magazine under that title.\n\nIn 2001, Joe Satriani and Steve Vai invited Petrucci to tour with them on the popular G3 guitar tour, which exposed him to a massive number of new fans and inspired a solo album. The album, \"Suspended Animation\", was released on March 1, 2005, and was available for order from his web site. Petrucci also appeared on the 2005 and 2006 G3 tours, and in 2007, went on G3 tour again, this time with Paul Gilbert and Joe Satriani. In a recent video with Larry DiMarzio, Petrucci announced that he is working on a follow up to his 2004 album, \"Suspended Animation\" and a new Dream Theater album.\n\nPetrucci also wrote and recorded two instrumental soundtrack songs for a Sega Saturn game titled \"Digital Pinball: Necronomicon\". Each track is roughly two minutes long, and are named simply \"Prologue\" and \"Epilogue\". In a spoof rock band, Nightmare Cinema (which was the Dream Theater members changing instruments for encores), he used the \"alternate stage name\" Johnny James.\n\nIn 2012, Petrucci was invited once again to join Joe Satriani on the G3 tour, along with Steve Morse. He was accompanied by bassist Dave LaRue and drummer and Dream Theater bandmate Mike Mangini.\n\nDream Theater bandmate Jordan Rudess revealed in an interview that Petrucci is a practicing Catholic. He currently lives in St. James, New York, with his wife Rena Sands, a guitarist in the all-female heavy metal band Meanstreak, and they have three children—twins Samantha and Renato, and Kiara. He is the uncle of Jake Bowen, a guitarist in the progressive metal band Periphery. He is also an avid fan of bodybuilding and dedicates much of his off time to weight training. He is a voting member of NARAS.\n\nIn 2018, Petrucci joined Joe Satriani on the G3 tour. They were accompanied by Uli Jon Roth on the European leg of the tour, and Phil Collen in North America.\n\nPetrucci is respected for his variety of guitar styles and skills. One of the most notable of these is his high-speed alternate picking which, as he himself claims, requires a \"strong sense of synchronization between the two [playing] hands.\" John is notable for frequent use of the seven-string electric guitar, which he says he uses as a writing tool, taking advantage of the extended range for heavier riffing and to play extended range runs as part of a solo. Moreover, Petrucci often combines his metal shredding technique with a slower, emotive soloing style. His influences as a guitarist include Jimmy Page, Brian May, Eddie Van Halen, Steve Morse, Al Di Meola, Steve Howe, Allan Holdsworth, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Randy Rhoads, Joe Satriani, Steve Vai, Alex Lifeson, Yngwie Malmsteen and David Gilmour.\n\nPetrucci is the only band member in Dream Theater to have contributed lyrics to every album, and his lyrics have been used for at least three songs on each. These include, among others, \"Metropolis, Pt. 1: The Miracle and the Sleeper\", \"The Spirit Carries On\", \"The Great Debate\", \"In the Presence of Enemies\", and \"Through Her Eyes\". Petrucci uses real-life experiences for lyrical inspiration, as can be heard in the songs \"The Count of Tuscany\", \"A Nightmare to Remember\" and \"Endless Sacrifice\".\n\nPetrucci has acted as a backing vocalist live since the \"Awake\" Tour. He is a baritone, producing a sound darker than that of James LaBrie's tenor voice. He has also written vocal melodies for Dream Theater. Petrucci's role as a vocalist expanded following the departure of Mike Portnoy, who had been Dream Theater's primary backing vocalist and occasionally even shared lead vocals with LaBrie. In live performances, Petrucci now replicates some vocal parts originally sung by Portnoy, with others being recorded samples.\n\nPetrucci is a long-time user of Musicman guitars and Mesa Boogie amplifiers. His pedalboard setup has changed a little over the years, usually changing to different modulation or overdrive pedals, while maintaining a similar setup and sound throughout - the key to his tone still remaining the Mesa Boogie distortion.\n\nA handful of brands have released John Petrucci signature guitar gear: \nIn the beginning of 2016 two new releases were announced: the Dunlop John Petrucci signature Cry-Baby wah, and the Mesa/Boogie JP-2C John Petrucci guitar head amp, which is available in three different versions: regular, rackmount or Limited-edition.\n\nGuitars:\n\nMUSIC MAN JOHN PETRUCCI SIGNATURE GUITARS\n\n\nIBANEZ SIGNATURE\n\nACOUSTIC GUITAR\nAmps and Effects:\n\n\nPedals Board:\n\n\nCabinets:\n\nPickups:\n\nStrings:\n\nPicks:\n\nCables and Connectors:\nMogami and Neutrik\n\nGuitar Straps:\n\nIn Ear Monitors:\n\nOther pedals that have been spotted on his board include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15874", "title": "July 8", "text": "July 8\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1639662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1639662", "title": "Kingdom of Italy (Napoleonic)", "text": "Kingdom of Italy (Napoleonic)\n\nThe Kingdom of Italy (; ) was a French client state founded in Northern Italy by Napoleon I, fully influenced by revolutionary France, that ended with his defeat and fall. Formally in personal union with the French Empire, with Napoleon I reigning as its king throughout its existence, direct governance was conducted by Napoleon's step-son, Eugène de Beauharnais, who served as Viceroy for his step-father.\n\nThe Kingdom of Italy was born on March 17, 1805, when the Italian Republic, whose president was Napoleon Bonaparte, became the \"Kingdom of Italy\", with the same man (now styled Napoleon I) as King of Italy, and the 24-year-old Eugène de Beauharnais his viceroy. Napoleon I was crowned at the Duomo di Milano, Milan on May 26, with the Iron Crown of Lombardy. His title was \"Emperor of the French and King of Italy\" (), showing the importance of this Italian Kingdom for him.\n\nEven though the republican Constitution was never formally abolished, a series of \"Constitutional Statutes\" completely altered it. The first one was proclaimed two days after the birth of the kingdom, on March 19, when the Consulta declared Napoleon as king and established that one of his natural or adopted sons would succeed him once the Napoleonic Wars were over, and once separated the two thrones were to remain separate. The second one, dating from March 29, and regulated the regency, the Great Officials of the kingdom, and the oaths.\n\nThe most important was the third, proclaimed on June 5, being the real constitution of the kingdom: Napoleon was the head of State, and had the full powers of government; in his absence, he was represented by the Viceroy, Eugène de Beauharnais. The Consulta, Legislative Council, and Speakers, were all merged in a Council of State, whose opinions became only optional and not binding for the king.\n\nThe Legislative Body, the old parliament, remained in theory, but it never summoned after 1805; the Napoleonic Code was introduced.\n\nThe fourth Statute, decided on February 16, 1806, indicated Beauharnais as the heir to the throne.\n\nThe fifth and the sixth Statutes, on March 21, 1808, separated the Consulta from the Council of State, and renamed it the Senate, with the duty of informing the king about the wishes of the most important subjects.\n\nThe seventh Statute, on September 21, created a new nobility of dukes, counts and barons; the eighth and the ninth, on March 15, 1810, established the annuity for the members of the royal family. In 1812, a Court of Accounts was added.\n\nThe government had seven ministers:\n\nOriginally, the Kingdom consisted of the territories of the Italian Republic: former Duchy of Milan, Duchy of Mantua, Duchy of Modena, the western part of the Republic of Venice, part of the Papal States in Romagna, and the province of Novara.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Third Coalition and the consequent Treaty of Pressburg, on May 1, 1806, the Kingdom was given by Austria the eastern and remaining part of the Venetian territories, including Istria and Dalmatia down to Kotor (then called Cattaro), even if it had to give Massa and Carrara to Elisa Bonaparte's Principality of Lucca and Piombino. The Duchy of Guastalla was annexed on May 24.\n\nWith the Convention of Fontainebleau with Austria of October 10, 1807, Italy ceded Monfalcone to Austria and gained Gradisca, putting the new border on the Isonzo River.\n\nThe conquered Republic of Ragusa was annexed in spring 1808 by General Auguste de Marmont. On April 2, 1808, following the dissolution of the Papal States, the Kingdom annexed the present-day Marches. At its maximum extent, the Kingdom had 6,700,000 inhabitants and was composed by 2,155 communes.\n\nThe final arrangement arrived after the new defeat of Austria: Emperor Napoleon and King Maximilian I Joseph of Bavaria signed the Treaty of Paris on February 28, 1810, deciding an exchange of territories involving Italy too.\n\nOn rewards in Germany, Bavaria ceded southern Tirol to the Kingdom of Italy, which in its turn ceded Istria and Dalmatia (with Ragusa) to France, incorporating the Adriatic territories into newly created the French Illyrian Provinces. Small changes to the borders between Italy and France in Garfagnana and Friuli came in act on August 5, 1811.\n\nIn practice, the Kingdom was a dependency of the French Empire.\n\nThe Kingdom served as a theater in Napoleon's operations against Austria during the wars of the various coalitions. Trading with the United Kingdom was forbidden.\n\nThe kingdom was given a new national currency, replacing the local coins circulating in the country: the Italian lira, of the same size, weight, and metal of the French franc. Mintage being decided by Napoleon with an imperial decree on March 21, 1806, the production of the new coins began in 1807. The monetary unit was the silver lira, which was 5 grams heavy. There were multiples of £2 (10 grams of silver) and £5 (25 grams of silver), and precious coins of £20 (6.45 grams of gold) and £40 (12.9 grams of gold). The lira was basically divided in 100 cents, and there were coins of 1 cent (2.1 grams of copper), 3 cents (6.3 grams of copper), and 10 cents (2 grams of poor silver), but following the tradition, there was a division in 20 soldi, with coins of 1 soldo (10.5 grams of copper, in practice 5 cents), 5 soldi (1.25 grams of silver), 10 soldi (2.5 grams of silver), and 15 soldi (3.75 grams of silver).\n\nThe army of the kingdom, inserted into the \"Grande Armée\", took part in all of Napoleon's campaigns.\nIn the course of its existence from 1805 to 1814 the \"Kingdom of Italy\" provided Napoleon I with roughly around 200,000 soldiers.\n\nIn 1805 Italian troops served on garrison duty along the English Channel, during 1806-1807 they took part in the sieges of Kolberg and Danzig and fought in Dalmatia. From 1808 to 1813 whole Italian divisions served in Spain, especially distinguishing themselves under Suchet at Tarragona and Saguntum.\n\nIn 1809, Eugène's \"Army of Italy\" formed the right wing of Napoleon I's invasion of the Austrian Empire, winning a considerable victory at Raab and having a respectable share in the victory at Wagram.\n\nIn 1812, Eugène de Beauharnais marched 27,000 troops of the \"Kingdom of Italy\" into Russia. The Italian contingent distinguished themselves at Borodino and Maloyaroslavets, receiving the recognition: \nOnly 1,000-2,000 Italians survived the Russian campaign, but they returned with most of their banners secured. In 1813, Eugène de Beauharnais held out as long as possible against the onslaught of the Austrians \"(Battle of the Mincio)\" and was later forced to sign an armistice in February 1814.\n\nInfantry:\n\nCavalry:\n\nThe administrative system of the Kingdom was firstly drawn by a law on June 8, 1805. The state was divided, following the French system, in 14 \"départements\", the twelve ones inherited from the republican era plus Adda (Sondrio) and Adige (Verona). The chief of the department, the prefect, was the State's representative in each province, improved the administrative decisions of the central government, controlled the local authorities, led of the police and, differently from the republican era, had all the executive powers in its territory. The local legislative body was the General Council, composed by the representatives of the communes.\n\nThe departments were divided in districts, equivalent to the French \"arrondissements\". The chief of the district was the vice-prefect, which had similar powers to the prefect, but over a smaller area. The local legislative body was the District Council, composed by eleven members. The districts were divided, as in France, in \"cantons\", seats of Tax collectors and Justices of the peace.\n\nThe cantons were divided in \"communes\". The communes had a City Council (\"Consiglio Comunale\") of fifteen, thirty or forty members, chosen by the king or the prefect depending by the commune size. The Council elected two, four or six Elders for the ordinary administration, helped by a City Secretary. The chief of biggest communes was the royal \"Podestà\", when in smaller communes there was a prefectoral Mayor. All the city offices were held only by owners and traders, and the leadership of the owners was assured.\n\nDuring the kingdom's life, the administrative system of the State changed for domestic and international reasons. Following the defeat of Austria and the Treaty of Pressburg, Napoleon annexed to Italy the territory of former Republic of Venice, as announced on March 30, 1806, and ratified on May 1. Seven new departments were created, six in the Venetian mainland, and one in Istria (Capodistria), whereas Dalmatia received special institutions led by the General Provider Mr. Dandolo, and maintained its own laws. On July 14, 1807, the government passed a decree that reduced the number of the communes. Following the dissolution of the Papal States, the kingdom was extended along the Adriatic coast, and on April 20, 1808, three new departments were established. The final territorial change came in action on June 10, 1810, when, as announced by Napoleon on previous May 28, Italy lost Istria and the never fully incorporated Dalmatia, gaining as reward all the southern Tirol up to the city of Bolzano, creating the 24th and last department: Haut Adige.\n\nThe language used officially in the Kingdom of Italy was Italian. The French language was used for ceremonies and in all relationships with France.\n\nEducation was made universal for all children, which was also conducted in Italian. By decree of the governor Vincenzo Dandolo, this was so even in Istria and Dalmatia, where local populations were more heterogeneous.\n\nDuring its last maximum extension (from 1809 to 1814), the Kingdom lost Istria/Dalmatia but got added Bolzano/Alto Adige and consisted of 24 departments.\n\n\nWhen Napoleon abdicated to both the thrones of France and Italy on April 11, 1814, Eugène de Beauharnais was lined up the Mincio River with his army against the German invasion, and he attempted to be crowned king. The Senate of the Kingdom was summoned on April 17, but the senators showed themselves undecided in that chaotic situation. When a second session of the assembly took place on April 20, the Milan insurrection foiled the Viceroy's plan. In the riots, finance minister Count Giuseppe Prina was massacred by the crowd, and the Great Electors disbanded the Senate and called the Austrian forces to protect the city, while a \"Provisional Regency Government\" under the presidency of Carlo Verri was appointed.\n\nEugène surrendered on April 23, and was exiled to Bavaria by the Austrians, who occupied Milan on April 28. On April 26, the Empire appointed Annibale Sommariva as \"Imperial Commissioner\" of Lombardy, while many taxes were abolished or reduced by the Provisional Regency. Finally, on May 25, the Supreme Imperial Commissioner Count Heinrich von Bellegarde took all the powers in Lombardy, and former monarchies in Modena, Romagna and Piedmont were gradually re-established; on May 30, the Treaty of Paris was signed, and the remains of the kingdom were annexed by the Austrian Empire, as announced by Count Bellegarde on June 12.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39639793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39639793", "title": "Lex Publilia (471 BC)", "text": "Lex Publilia (471 BC)\n\nThe lex Publilia, also known as the Publilian Rogation, was a law traditionally passed in 471 BC, transferring the election of the tribunes of the plebs to the \"comitia tributa\", thereby freeing their election from the direct influence of the Senate and patrician magistrates.\n\nIn 473 BC, the tribune Gnaeus Genucius ordered the arrest and trial of Gnaeus Manlius Vulso and Lucius Furius Medullinus, the consuls of the previous year, for having used their power to obstruct agrarian reforms. Genucius was already hated by the patricians; Titus Genucius, probably his brother, having brought to trial Titus Menenius Lanatus, who as consul in 477 had failed to intervene to prevent the disaster at the Cremera, and Spurius Servilius Priscus Structus, who during his consulship in 476 had nearly lost his entire army due to his recklessness. Before their trial, Manlius and Furius appeared in public in mourning dress, bewailing their fates, which they claimed had already been ordained by the tyranny of the plebeian tribunes, which rendered anyone elected to high office little more than sacrificial animals. Their appeal to their supporters succeeded, for on the day of the trial Genucius was found murdered in his house.\n\nThe new consuls, Lucius Aemilius Mamercus and Vopiscus Julius Iulus, were ordered to levy troops as a distraction from the murder, and the other tribunes were too fearful to intervene. When a former centurion named Volero Publilius refused to be enlisted as a common soldier, the consuls had him arrested and ordered him to be scourged by the lictors. Breaking free, Publilius appealed to the crowd for protection, and suddenly the tables were turned against the consuls, who fled for their lives and took refuge in the Curia Hostilia. Faced with the prospect of imminent revolt, the Senate refrained from taking any further action against the plebeians, and Publilius was elected tribune for the following year.\n\nAs tribune of the plebs in BC 472, Publilius proposed a law transferring the election of the plebeian tribunes from the \"comitia curiata\" (or possibly the \"comitia centuriata\") to the \"comitia tributa\". The significance of this measure was that it would prevent the patricians from influencing the election through the votes of their \"clientes\". The proposal was debated throughout the year, but never passed.\n\nThe following year, Publilius brought the law forward for the second time. The debate was marked by a confrontation between the consul Appius Claudius Sabinus and Gaius Laetorius, one of the other plebeian tribunes, in which Laetorius tried to have Claudius removed before a vote could be held, and the consul ordered the tribune's arrest. Bloodshed was averted when the other consul, Titus Quinctius Capitolinus Barbatus, convinced a group of senators to hurry Claudius from the Forum, while he himself calmed the crowd. In the Senate, Quinctius urged the senators to defer to the will of the people rather than risk tearing the state apart. Despite his colleague's angry words, the opinion of Quinctius prevailed, and no further action was taken to obstruct the passage of the tribune's law.\n\nSome scholars doubt that the patricians would have permitted the election of the plebeian tribunes to pass into the hands of the \"comitia tributa\" as early as traditionally reported. Instead, they argue that this was probably accomplished by the \"lex Publilia\" of 339 BC, which included three major provisions: opening the censorship to the plebeians; making \"plebiscita\" binding on the entire community, rather than just the plebeians; and reducing the power of the \"comitia curiata\" to obstruct laws before they were sent to the \"comitia centuriata\". In this case, the \"lex Publilia\" of 471 BC would be merely an anticipation of the later law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41671134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41671134", "title": "List of Joan Baez concerts", "text": "List of Joan Baez concerts\n\nThis is a partial list of concerts and concert tours held by Joan Baez, the American folk singer.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11090697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11090697", "title": "List of assassinations", "text": "List of assassinations\n\nThis is a list of assassinations, sorted by location.\n\nFor the purposes of this article, an assassination is defined as the deliberate, premeditated murder of a prominent figure, often for religious or political reasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "26682629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26682629", "title": "List of assassinations of the Second JVP Insurrection", "text": "List of assassinations of the Second JVP Insurrection\n\nThe following is a list of notable assassinations of the Second JVP Insurrection blamed on the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna and government security forces.\n\n"}
{"id": "59695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59695", "title": "MCI Inc.", "text": "MCI Inc.\n\nMCI, Inc. (d/b/a Verizon Business) was an American telecommunication corporation, currently a subsidiary of Verizon Communications, with its main office in Ashburn, Virginia. The corporation was formed originally as a result of the merger of WorldCom and MCI Communications corporations, and used the name MCI WorldCom, succeeded by WorldCom, before changing its name to the present version on April 12, 2003, as part of the corporation's ending of its bankruptcy status. The company traded on NASDAQ as WCOM (pre-bankruptcy) and MCIP (post-bankruptcy). The corporation was purchased by Verizon Communications with the deal finalizing on January 6, 2006, and is now identified as that company's Verizon Enterprise Solutions division with the local residential divisions being integrated slowly into local Verizon subsidiaries.\n\nFor a time, WorldCom was the United States's second largest long distance telephone company (after AT&T). WorldCom grew largely by acquiring other telecommunications companies, most notably MCI Communications in 1998. In 1996, it acquired UUNET, a Tier 1 ISP that forms a major part of the Internet backbone. It was originally headquartered in Clinton, Mississippi before relocating to Ashburn, Virginia.\n\nThe company began as Long Distance Discount Service, Inc. (LDDS) during 1983, based in Jackson, Mississippi. In 1985, LDDS selected Bernard Ebbers to be its CEO. The company became traded publicly as a corporation in 1989 as a result of a merger with Advantage Companies Inc. The company name was changed to LDDS WorldCom in 1995, and relocated to Clinton, Mississippi.\n\nThe company grew rapidly in the 1990s. Among the companies that were bought or merged with WorldCom were Advanced Communications Corp. (1992), Metromedia Communication Corp. (1993), Resurgens Communications Group (1993), IDB Communications Group, Inc (1994), Williams Technology Group, Inc. (1995), and MFS Communications Company (1996), and MCI in 1998. The acquisition of MFS included UUNET Technologies, Inc., which had been acquired by MFS shortly before the merger with WorldCom. In February 1998, WorldCom purchased—by a complex transaction—online pioneer company CompuServe from its parent company H&R Block. WorldCom then retained the CompuServe Network Services Division, sold its online service to America Online, and received AOL's network division, ANS. The acquisition of Digex (DIGX) during June 2001 was also complex; WorldCom acquired Digex's corporate parent, Intermedia Communications, and then sold all of Intermedia's non-Digex assets to Allegiance Telecom.\n\nOn November 4, 1997, WorldCom and MCI Communications announced their US$37 billion merger to form MCI WorldCom, making it the largest corporate merger in U.S. history. On September 15, 1998, the new company, MCI WorldCom, opened for business, after MCI divested itself of its successful \"internetMCI\" business to gain approval from the U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nOn October 5, 1999, Sprint Corporation and MCI WorldCom announced a $129 billion merger agreement between the two companies. Had the deal been completed, it would have been the largest corporate merger in history. The merged company would have surpassed AT&T as the largest communications company in the United States. However, the deal floundered due to opposition from the U.S. Department of Justice and the European Union on concerns that it would create a monopoly. On July 13, 2000, the boards of directors of both companies terminated the merger. Later that year, MCI WorldCom renamed itself \"WorldCom\".\n\nCEO Bernard Ebbers became very wealthy from the increasing price of his holdings in WorldCom common stock. However, in the year 2000 the telecommunications industry was in decline. WorldCom’s aggressive growth strategy suffered a serious setback when, in July 2000, it was forced by the U.S. Justice Department to abandon its proposed merger with Sprint. By that time, WorldCom’s stock price was decreasing, and banks were placing increasing demands on Ebbers to cover margin calls on his WorldCom stock that were used to finance his other businesses (lumber and yachting, among others). In 2001, Ebbers persuaded WorldCom’s board of directors to provide him corporate loans and guarantees in excess of $400 million to cover his margin calls. The board hoped that the loans would avert the need for Ebbers to sell substantial amounts of his WorldCom stock, as his doing so would result in a further decrease of the stock's price. However, this strategy failed. In April 2002, Ebbers resigned as CEO and was replaced by John Sidgmore, former CEO of UUNET Technologies Inc.\n\nBeginning modestly during mid-1999 and continuing at an accelerated pace through May 2002, the company—directed by Ebbers (as CEO), Scott Sullivan (CFO), David Myers (Controller), and Buford \"Buddy\" Yates (Director of General Accounting)—used fraudulent accounting methods to disguise its decreasing earnings to maintain the price of WorldCom’s stock.\n\nThe fraud was accomplished primarily in two ways:\n\n\nIn 2002, a small team of internal auditors at WorldCom worked together, often at night and secretly, to investigate and reveal $3.8 billion worth of fraud. Soon thereafter, the company’s audit committee and board of directors were notified of the fraud and acted swiftly: Sullivan was dismissed, Myers resigned, Arthur Andersen withdrew its audit opinion for 2001, and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) began an investigation into these matters on June 26, 2002 (see accounting scandal).\n\nBy the end of 2003, it was estimated that the company's total assets had been inflated by about $11 billion. This made the WorldCom scandal the largest accounting fraud in American history until the exposure of Bernard Madoff's $64 billion Ponzi scheme in 2008.\n\nOn July 21, 2002, WorldCom filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the largest such filing in United States history at the time (since overtaken by the bankruptcies of both Lehman Brothers and Washington Mutual in a span of eleven days during September 2008). The WorldCom bankruptcy proceedings were held before U.S. Federal Bankruptcy Judge Arthur J. Gonzalez, who simultaneously heard the Enron bankruptcy proceedings, which were the second largest bankruptcy case resulting from one of the largest corporate fraud scandals. None of the criminal proceedings against WorldCom and its officers and agents were originated by referral from Gonzalez or the Department of Justice lawyers. By the bankruptcy reorganization agreement, the company paid $750 million to the SEC in cash and stock in the new MCI, which was intended to be paid to wronged investors.\n\nEffective December 16, 2002, Michael Capellas became chairman and chief executive officer. On April 14, 2003, WorldCom changed its name to MCI, and relocated its corporate headquarters from Clinton, Mississippi, to Dulles, Virginia.\n\nDuring May 2003, the company was given a no-bid contract by the United States Department of Defense to build a cellular telephone network in Iraq. The deal has been criticized by competitors and others, who cite the company's lack of experience with that technology.\n\nThe SEC and WorldCom concluded a deal in which WorldCom agreed to pay a civil penalty of $2.25 billion. The deal was approved by federal judge Jed Rakoff during July 2003. In a sweeping consent decree, the SEC and Rakoff essentially took control of WorldCom. Rakoff appointed former SEC chairman Richard C. Breeden to oversee WorldCom's compliance with the SEC agreement. Breeden actively involved himself with the management of the company, and prepared a report for Rakoff, titled Restoring Trust, in which he proposed extensive corporate governance reforms, as part of an effort to \"cast the new MCI into what he hoped would become a model of how shareholders should be protected and how companies should be run\".\n\nThe company emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy during 2004 with about $5.7 billion in debt and $6 billion in cash. About half of the cash was intended to pay various claims and settlements. Previous bondholders ended up being paid 35.7 cents on the dollar, in bonds and stock in the new MCI company. The previous stockholders' stock was cancelled, making it totally worthless.\n\nIt had yet to pay many of its creditors, who had waited for two years for a portion of the money owed. Many of the small creditors included former employees, primarily those who were dismissed during June 2002 and whose severance and benefits were withheld when WorldCom filed for bankruptcy.\n\nOn August 7, 2002, the \"exWorldCom 5100\" group was formed. It was composed of former WorldCom employees with a common goal of seeking full payment of severance pay and benefits based on the WorldCom Severance Plan. The \"5100\" stands for the number of WorldCom employees dismissed on June 28, 2002 before WorldCom filed for bankruptcy.\n\nOn February 14, 2005, Verizon Communications agreed to acquire MCI for $7.6 billion.\n\nOn March 15, 2005, Bernard Ebbers was found guilty of all charges and convicted of fraud, conspiracy and filing false documents with regulators — all related to the $11 billion accounting scandal. Other former WorldCom officials charged with criminal penalties in relation to the company's financial misstatements include former CFO Scott Sullivan (entered a guilty plea on March 2, 2004, to one count each of securities fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud, and filing false statements), former controller David Myers (pleaded guilty to securities fraud, conspiracy to commit securities fraud, and filing false statements on September 27, 2002), former accounting director Buford Yates (pleaded guilty to conspiracy and fraud charges on October 7, 2002), and former accounting managers Betty Vinson and Troy Normand (both pleading guilty to conspiracy and securities fraud on October 10, 2002).\n\nOn July 13, 2005, Bernard Ebbers received a sentence that would keep him imprisoned for 25 years. At time of sentencing, Ebbers was 63 years old. On September 26, 2006, Ebbers surrendered himself to the Federal Bureau of Prisons prison at Oakdale, Louisiana, the Oakdale Federal Correctional Institution, to begin serving his sentence.\n\nIn December 2005, Microsoft Corporation announced that MCI will join it by providing Windows Live Messenger customers \"Voice Over Internet Protocol\" (VoIP) service to make telephone calls. This was MCI's last new product—- called \"MCI Web Calling\". After the merger, this product was renamed \"Verizon Web Calling\".\n\nIn March 2007, 16 of WorldCom's 17 former underwriters reached settlements with the investors. Citigroup settled for $2.65 billion on May 10, 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39891678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39891678", "title": "Make Something Unreal", "text": "Make Something Unreal\n\nMake Something Unreal, also known as $1,000,000 Make Something Unreal Contest or Make Something Unreal Live, is a video game development competition organised by Epic Games which began in 2004 with subsequent competitions in 2008, 2012, and 2013. The contest aims to reward developers who create mods using the Unreal game engine.\n\nThe competition has partnered with companies such as Nvidia and Intel and provided competition winners with Unreal Engine licenses, cash prizes, and PC hardware. Notable contestants include Tripwire Interactive's \"\" and \"Antichamber\".\n\nThe first competition was held in 2004 and partnered with Nvidia who described it as \"a way to reward a growing community of gamers that are helping to spark the evolution of 3D entertainment\". The grand prize was US$50,000 and an Unreal Engine 3 license.\n\nOver one thousand entrants submitted mods for \"Unreal Tournament 2003\" and \"Unreal Tournament 2004\", with the grand prize being awarded to World War II shooter \"\", developed by Tripwire Interactive, who earned nearly US$80,000 in cash and computer hardware prizes over the course of the contest. Mark Rein, vice president of Epic Games, stated that \"The ultimate beneficiaries were... the game industry as a whole which uncovered some incredibly talented people who will continue to make contributions to the industry for many years to come.\"\n\nIn 2008 Epic Games announced the continuation of the \"Make Something Unreal\" contest in partnership with Intel. This competition would again be an opportunity for aspiring video game developers to submit mods using Unreal Engine 3, this time for Unreal Tournament 3. Phase One winners were announced in September 2008, with some cash and hardware prizes awarded, including high performance PCs. Of the first phase contestants, Mark Rein said Epic Games had \"been blown away by the quality and variety of the mods submitted\".\n\nPhase Two winners were announced in February 2009, with a total of US$70,000 cash awarded across all winners. The Phase 2 winning mods were showcased at the 2009 Game Developers Conference in San Francisco. In August 2009 Phase 3 winners were announced, with prizes amounting to around US$100,000 in cash and hardware.\n\nThe overall winners of \"Make Something Unreal\" 2008 were announced in February 2010, with horror shooter \"The Haunted\" taking the first place prize of US$50,000 and an Unreal Engine 3 license due to \"a winning formula of intense survival horror gameplay, rich multiplayer modes, and nightmarish themed graphics.\" \"The Ball\" placed second, \"\" third, \"Prometheus\" fourth, and \"Hazard: The Journey of Life\" (later known as Antichamber) placed fifth, receiving US$40,000, $30,000, $20,000, and $10,000 respectively.\n\nIn November 2011, it was announced that Epic Games would be hosting another \"Make Something Unreal\" contest in conjunction with \"Train2Game\", a distance learning resource for game development. This competition required teams to develop a game for the iOS platform using the Unreal Development Kit – the free version of Unreal Engine 3. The competition began with a two-day game jam in which ten teams had to create a game based on the theme of Guy Fawkes. The top three teams, and a fourth comprising the most talented developers from other teams, were chosen to take part in the main event at Gadget Show Live in April 2012.\n\nThe chosen teams were required to spend the six months prior to Gadget Show Live developing games, based on roleplay gamebooks Fighting Fantasy, until a final two-day event at the live show, where they received guidance from developers such as Cliff Bleszinski, Jon Hare, and Peter Molyneux. Large screens were displayed to the public viewing the event with the aim of giving them an insight in to game development.\n\nDevelopment team \"Commander Kiwi\" won the 2012 contest with their fantasy RPG game \"Warlock of Firetop Mountain: Lost Chapters\", winning them a full commercial license for Unreal Engine 3. All four of the finalists' games were released on the iOS App Store following Gadget Show Live.\n\n\"Make Something Unreal Live\" continued in 2013, with a new competition being announced in October 2012. The competition was open to students who were tasked with making pitches for a PC game using the Unreal Development Kit based on the theme 'mendelian genetics'. Finalists for the competition were chosen in November, with 12 teams progressing to the next round where they were required to present works in progress, made using Unreal Engine 3, to a judging panel, who would then choose four teams to compete at Gadget Show Live 2013.\n\nA panel of judges, including senior personnel from Epic Games, chose four teams to progress to the final, stating that they were \"hugely impressed by the quality of all 12 shortlisted entries to this year’s competition.\" At Gadget Show Live 2013 a similar format to 2012 was followed, with judges including Peter Molyneux and BioWare producer Mike Gamble. Dead Shark Triplepunch's first-person ball game \"Epigenesis\" won first place at the competition, winning the team a commercial license for Unreal Engine 3 and Unreal Engine 4, with second place awarding Kairo Games' Polymorph with an Unreal Engine 3 license. Judges described the winning game as a \"potential eSport.\"\n\nMSUL 2013 was also supported by Staffordshire University, Epic's educational partner for the program, and UKIE, the games industry trade association.\n"}
{"id": "6391487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6391487", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1974", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1974\n\nMelodifestivalen 1974 was the selection for the 15th song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 14th time that this system of picking a song had been used. 10 songwriters were selected by SR for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV1 but was not broadcast on radio. ABBA went on to win that year's Eurovision Song Contest in Brighton, Sweden's first Eurovision win.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "451461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451461", "title": "Mobilization", "text": "Mobilization\n\nMobilization, in military terminology, is the act of assembling and readying troops and supplies for war. The word \"mobilization\" was first used, in a military context, to describe the preparation of the Imperial Russian Army during the 1850s and 1860s. Mobilization theories and techniques have continuously changed since then. The opposite of mobilization is demobilization.\n\nMobilization became an issue with the introduction of conscription, and the introduction of the railways in the 19th century. Mobilization institutionalized the mass levy of forces that was first introduced during the French Revolution, and that had changed the character of war. A number of technological and societal changes promoted the move towards a more organized way of assembling armies. These included the telegraph to provide rapid communication, the railways to provide rapid movement and concentration of troops, and conscription to provide a trained reserve of soldiers in case of war.\n\nThe Roman Empire was able to mobilize at various times sizeable forces, which including poorly trained militia totaled between 6% (81–83 BCE) to, in emergency and for short periods, as much as 10% (210s BCE) of total Roman population (which included as many as 75% of males aged 17–45).\n\nThe Confederate States of America is estimated to have mobilized about 11% of its free population in American Civil War (1861–1865). The Kingdom of Prussia mobilized about 6–7% of its total population in the years 1760 and 1813. The Swedish Empire mobilized 7.7% in 1709.\n\nArmies in the seventeenth century possessed an average of 20,000 men. A military force of this size requires around 20 tons of food per day, shelter, as well as all the necessary munitions, transportation (typically horses or mules), tools, and representative garments. Without efficient transportation, mobilizing these average-sized forces was extremely costly, time-consuming, and potentially life-threatening. Soldiers could traverse the terrain to get to war fronts, but they had to carry their supplies. Many armies decided to forage for food; however, foraging restricted movement because it is based on the presumption that the land the army moves over possesses significant agricultural production.\n\nHowever, due to new policies (like conscription), greater populations, and greater national wealth, the nineteenth-century army was composed of an average of 100,000 men. For example, in 1812 Bonaparte led an army of 600,000 to Moscow while feeding off plentiful agricultural products introduced by the turn of the century, such as potatoes. Despite the advantages of mass armies, mobilizing forces of this magnitude took much more time than it had in the past.\n\nThe Second Italian War of Independence illustrated all of the problems in modern army mobilization. Prussia began to realize the future of mobilizing mass armies when Napoleon III transported 130,000 soldiers to Italy by military railways. French caravans that carried the supplies for the French and Piedmontese armies were incredibly slow, and the arms inside these caravans were sloppily organized. These armies were in luck, however, in that their Austrian adversaries experienced similar problems with sluggish supply caravans (one of which apparently covered less than three miles per day).\n\nNot only did Prussia take note of the problems in transporting supplies to armies, but it also took note of the lack of communication between troops, officers, and generals. Austria’s army was primarily composed of Slavs, but it contained many other ethnicities as well. Austrian military instruction during peacetime utilized nine different languages, accustoming Austrian soldiers to taking orders only in their native language. Conversely, in an effort to augment the efficacy of the new “precision rifle” developed by the monarchy, officers were forced to only speak German when giving orders to their men. Even one Austrian officer commented at Solferino that his troops could not even comprehend the command, “Halt.” This demonstrates the \"communicative\" problems that arose quickly with the advent of the mass army.\n\nIntricate plans for mobilization contributed greatly to the beginning of World War I, since in 1914, under the laws and customs of warfare then observed (not to mention the desire to avoid compromising national security), general mobilization of one nation's military forces was invariably considered an act of war by that country's likely enemies.\n\nIn 1914, the United Kingdom was the only European Great Power without conscription. The other Great Powers (Austria-Hungary, Italy, France, Germany and Russia) all relied on compulsory military service to supply each of their armies with the millions of men they believed they would need to win a major war. France enacted the “Three Year Law” (1913) to extend the service of conscripted soldiers to match the size of the German army, as the French population of 40 million was smaller than the German population of 65 million people. The Anglo-German naval arms race began, sparked by the German enactment of the Second Naval Law. Each of the Great Powers could only afford to keep a fraction of these men in uniform in peacetime, the rest were reservists with limited opportunities to train. Maneuvering formations of millions of men with limited military training required intricate plans with no room for error, confusion, or discretion after mobilization began. These plans were prepared under the assumption of worst-case scenarios.\n\nFor example, German military leaders did not plan to mobilize for war with Russia whilst assuming that France would not come to her ally's aid, or vice versa. The Schlieffen Plan therefore dictated not only mobilization against both powers, but also the order of attack—France would be attacked first regardless of the diplomatic circumstances. To bypass the fortified Franco-German frontier, the German forces were to be ordered to march through Belgium. Whether or not Russia had committed the first provocation, the German plan agreed to by Emperor William II called for the attack on Russia to take place only after France was defeated.\nSimilarly, the Russian Stavka's war planning assumed that war against either Austria-Hungary or Germany would mean war against the other power. Although the plan allowed flexibility as to whether the main effort would be made against Germany or Austria-Hungary, in either case units would be mobilized on the frontiers of both Powers. On July 28, 1914, Tsar Nicholas II of Russia (William's cousin) ordered partial mobilization against Austria-Hungary only. While war with Austria-Hungary seemed inevitable, Nicholas engaged in a personal dialogue with the German Emperor in an attempt to avoid war with Germany. However, Nicholas was advised that attempts to improvise a partial mobilization would lead to chaos and probable defeat if, as pessimists on the Russian side expected, no amount of diplomacy could convince the Germans to refrain from attacking Russia whilst she was engaged with Germany's ally. On July 29, 1914, the Tsar ordered full mobilization, then changed his mind after receiving a telegram from Kaiser Wilhelm. Partial mobilization was ordered instead.\n\nThe next day, the Tsar's foreign minister, Sergey Sazonov once more persuaded Nicholas of the need for general mobilization, and the order was issued that day, July 30. In response, Germany declared war on Russia.\n\nGermany mobilized under von Moltke the Younger's revised version of the Schlieffen Plan, which assumed a two-front war with Russia and France. Like Russia, Germany decided to follow its two-front plans despite the one-front war. Germany declared war on France on August 3, 1914, one day after issuing an ultimatum to Belgium demanding the right of German troops to pass through as part of the planned pincer action of the military. Finally, Britain declared war on Germany for violating Belgian neutrality.\n\nThus the entangling alliances of the Triple Alliance and the Triple Entente directed the intricate plans for mobilization. This brought all of the Great Powers of Europe into the Great War without actually utilizing the provisions of either alliance.\n\nThe mobilization was like a holiday for many of the inexperienced soldiers; for example, some Germans wore flowers in the muzzles of their rifles as they marched. Trains brought soldiers to the front lines of battle. The Germans timetabled the movements of 11,000 trains as they brought troops across the Rhine River. The French mobilized around 7,000 trains for movement. Horses were also mobilized for war. The British had 165,000 horses prepared for cavalry, the Austrians 600,000, the Germans 715,000, and the Russians over a million.\n\nBritain's Dominions including Australia, Canada, New Zealand and South Africa were compelled to go to war when Britain did. However, it was largely left up to the individual Dominions to recruit and equip forces for the war effort. Canadian, Australian and New Zealand mobilizations all involved the creation of new field forces for overseas service rather than using the existing regimental structures as a framework. In the case of Canada, the Militia Minister, Sir Sam Hughes, created the Canadian Expeditionary Force from whole cloth by sending telegrams to 226 separate reserve unit commanders asking for volunteers to muster at Valcartier in Quebec. The field force served separately from the Militia (Canada's peace time army); in 1920 the Otter Commission was compelled to sort out which units would perpetuate the units that served in the trenches—the CEF or the prewar Militia. A unique solution of perpetuations was instituted, and mobilization during the Second World War did not repeat Sir Sam Hughes' model, which has been described by historians as being more closely akin to ancient Scottish clans assembling for battle than a modern, industrialized nation preparing for war.\n\n\"Colonials\" served under British command though, perhaps owing to the limited autonomy granted to the Dominions regarding their respective mobilizations, the Dominions eventually compelled the British government to overrule the objections of some British commanders and let the Dominion forces serve together instead of being distributed amongst various British divisions. The \"colonials\" would go on to be acknowledged by both the British and German high commands as being elite British units. In May 1918, when command of the Australian Corps passed from William Birdwood to John Monash, it became the first British Empire formation commanded totally free of British officers.\n\nOn May 23, 1915, Italy entered World War I on the Allied side. Despite being the weakest of the big four Allied powers, the Italians soon managed to populate its army from 560 to 693 infantry battalions in 1916; the army had grown in size from 1 million to 1.5 million soldiers. On August 17, 1916, Romania entered the war on the Allied side, mobilizing an army of 23 divisions. Romania was quickly defeated however by Germany, Austria-Hungary, and Bulgaria. Bulgaria went so far as to ultimately mobilize 1.2 million men, more than a quarter of its population of 4.3 million people, a greater share of its population than any other country during the war.\n\nThe production of supplies gradually increased throughout the war. In Russia, the expansion of industry allowed a 2,000 percent increase in the production of artillery shells - by November 1915, over 1,512,000 artillery shells were being produced per month. In France, a massive mobilization by the female population to work in factories allowed the rate of shell production to reach 100,000 shells a day by 1915.\n\nBoth sides also began drawing on larger numbers of soldiers. The British Secretary of State for War, Lord Kitchener, appealed for hundreds of thousands of soldiers, which was met with an enthusiastic response. 30 new British divisions were created. The response by volunteers allowed the British to put off the introduction of conscription until 1916. New Zealand followed suit, with Canada also eventually introducing conscription with the Military Service Act in 1917.\n\nOn April 6, 1917, the United States entered the war on the Allied side. At the entrance, the U.S. only could mobilize its army of 107,641 soldiers, ranked only seventeenth in size worldwide at the time. The United States Navy quickly mobilized, adding 5 dreadnoughts to the Allied navy. However, conscription quickly ensued. By March 1918, 318,000 U.S. soldiers had been mobilized to France. Eventually, by October 1918, a force of 2 million U.S. soldiers joined in the war effort.\n\nPoland partly mobilized its troops on August 24, 1939, and fully mobilized on August 30, 1939, following the increased confrontations with Germany since March 1939. On September 1, 1939 Germany invaded Poland, which prompted both France and Britain to declare war on Germany. However, they were slow to mobilize, and by the time Poland had been overrun by the Axis powers, only minor operations had been carried out by the French at the Saar River.\n\nCanada actually carried out a partial mobilization on August 25, 1939, in anticipation of the growing diplomatic crisis. On September 1, 1939, the Canadian Active Service Force (a corps-sized force of two divisions) was mobilized even though war was not declared by Canada until September 10, 1939. Only one division went overseas in December 1939, and the government hoped to follow a \"limited liability\" war policy. When France was invaded in May 1940, the Canadian government realized that would not be possible and mobilized three additional divisions, beginning their overseas employment in August 1940 with the dispatch of the 2nd Canadian Division (some units of which were deployed to Iceland and Newfoundland for garrison duty before moving to the UK). Canada also enacted the National Resources Mobilization Act in 1940, which among other things compelled men to serve in the military, though conscripts mobilized under the NRMA did not serve overseas until 1944. Conscripts did, however, serve in the Aleutian Islands Campaign in 1943 though the anticipated Japanese defense never materialized due to the evacuation of the enemy garrison before the landings. Service in the Aleutians was not considered \"overseas\" as technically the islands were part of North America.\n\nThe United Kingdom mobilized 22% of its total population for direct military service, more than any other nation of WWII era.\n\nFull scale mobilizations were not enacted by the United States and the Soviet Union or their respective allies, during the Cold War, as the era was characterized as \"war by proxy\". While many leading nations participated in military actions, some of significant size, national mobilization in the historical sense never occurred. Examples of this would be US involvement in Vietnam, though their enemies may be said to have mobilized, as well as the Falklands War between the UK and Argentina.\n\nEconomic mobilization is the preparation of resources for usage in a national emergency by carrying out changes in the organization of the national economy.\n\nIt is reorganizing the functioning of the national economy to use resources most effectively in support of the total war effort. Typically, the available resources and productive capabilities of each nation determined the degree and intensity of economic mobilization. Thus, effectively mobilizing economic resources to support the war effort is a complex process, requiring superior coordination and productive capability on a national scale. Importantly, some scholars have argued that such large scale mobilization of society and its resources for the purposes of warfare have the effect of aiding in state building. Herbst argues that the demands of reacting to an external aggressor provides a strong enough impetus to force structural changes and also forge a common national identity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45420", "title": "Napoleonic Wars", "text": "Napoleonic Wars\n\nThe Napoleonic Wars (1803–1815) were a series of major conflicts pitting the French Empire and its allies, led by Napoleon I, against a fluctuating array of European powers formed into various coalitions, financed and usually led by the United Kingdom. The wars stemmed from the unresolved disputes associated with the French Revolution and its resultant conflict. The wars are often categorised into five conflicts, each termed after the coalition that fought Napoleon: the Third Coalition (1805), the Fourth (1806–07), Fifth (1809), Sixth (1813), and the Seventh and final (1815). \n\nNapoleon, upon ascending to First Consul of France in 1799, had inherited a chaotic republic; he subsequently created a state with stable finances, a strong bureaucracy, and a well-trained army. In 1805, Austria and Russia waged war against France. In response, Napoleon defeated the allied Russo-Austrian army at Austerlitz in December 1805, which is considered his greatest victory. At sea, the British severely defeated the joint Franco-Spanish navy in the Battle of Trafalgar on October 1805. \nThis victory secured British control of the seas and prevented the invasion of Britain itself. Prussian concerns about increasing French power led to a resumption of war in October 1806. Napoleon quickly defeated the Prussians, and defeated Russia in June 1807, bringing an uneasy peace to the continent. The peace failed, though, as war broke out in 1809, and a new coalition was soon defeated. \n\nHoping to isolate Britain economically, Napoleon invaded Iberia, declaring his brother Joseph king of Spain in 1808. The Spanish and Portuguese revolted with British support, and, after six years of fighting, expelled the French from Iberia in 1814. Concurrently, Russia, unwilling to bear economic consequences of reduced trade, routinely violated the Continental System, enticing Napoleon to launch a massive invasion of Russia in 1812. The resulting campaign ended with the dissolution and withdrawal of the French \"Grande Armée\". Encouraged by the defeat, Prussia, Austria, and Russia began a new campaign against France, decisively defeating Napoleon at Leipzig in October 1813 after several inconclusive engagements. The Allies then invaded France, capturing Paris at the end of March 1814 and forcing Napoleon to abdicate in early April. He was exiled to the island of Elba, and the Bourbons were restored to power. However, Napoleon escaped in February 1815, and reassumed control of France. The Allies responded with the Seventh Coalition, defeating Napoleon permanently at Waterloo in June 1815 and exiling him to St Helena, a British territory midway between Africa and Brazil, where he died six years later.\n\nThe Congress of Vienna redrew the borders of Europe, and brought a lasting peace to the continent. The wars had profound consequences on global history, including the spread of nationalism and liberalism, the rise of the British Empire as the world's foremost power, the appearance of independence movements in Latin America and subsequent collapse of the Spanish Empire, the fundamental reorganisation of German and Italian territories into larger states, and the establishment of radically new methods of conducting warfare.\n\nNapoleon seized power in 1799, creating a \"de facto\" military dictatorship. There are a number of opinions on the date to use as the formal beginning of the Napoleonic Wars; 18 May 1803 is often used, when Britain and France ended the only short period of peace between 1792 and 1814. The Napoleonic Wars began with the War of the Third Coalition, which was the first of the Coalition Wars against the First French Republic after Napoleon's accession as leader of France.\n\nBritain ended the Treaty of Amiens and declared war on France in May 1803. Among the reasons were Napoleon's changes to the international system in Western Europe, especially in Switzerland, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. Kagan argues that Britain was irritated in particular by Napoleon's assertion of control over Switzerland. Furthermore, Britons felt insulted when Napoleon stated that their country deserved no voice in European affairs, even though King George III was an elector of the Holy Roman Empire. For its part, Russia decided that the intervention in Switzerland indicated that Napoleon was not looking toward a peaceful resolution of his differences with the other European powers.\n\nThe British quickly enforced a naval blockade of France to starve it of resources. Napoleon responded with economic embargoes against Britain, and sought to eliminate Britain's Continental allies to break the coalitions arrayed against him. The so-called \"Continental System\" formed a league of armed neutrality to disrupt the blockade and enforce free trade with France. The British responded by capturing the Danish fleet, breaking up the league, and later secured dominance over the seas, allowing it to freely continue its strategy. Napoleon won the War of the Third Coalition at Austerlitz, forcing the Austrian Empire out of the war and formally dissolving the Holy Roman Empire. Within months, Prussia declared war, triggering a War of the Fourth Coalition. This war ended disastrously for Prussia, defeated and occupied within 19 days of the beginning of the campaign. Napoleon subsequently defeated the Russian Empire at Friedland, creating powerful client states in Eastern Europe and ending the fourth coalition.\n\nConcurrently, the refusal of Portugal to commit to the Continental System, and Spain's failure to maintain it, led to the Peninsular War and the outbreak of the War of the Fifth Coalition. The French occupied Spain and formed a Spanish client kingdom, ending the alliance between the two. Heavy British involvement in the Iberian Peninsula soon followed, while a British effort to capture Antwerp failed. Napoleon oversaw the situation in Iberia, defeating the Spanish, and expelling the British from the Peninsula. Austria, keen to recover territory lost during the War of the Third Coalition, invaded France's client states in Eastern Europe. Napoleon defeated the fifth coalition at Wagram.\n\nAttempts to disrupt the British blockade led to the United States declaring war on Britain, while grievances over control of Poland, and Russia's withdrawal from the Continental System, led to Napoleon invading Russia in June 1812. The invasion was an unmitigated disaster for Napoleon; scorched earth tactics, desertion, French strategic failures and the onset of the Russian winter compelled Napoleon to retreat with massive losses. Napoleon suffered further setbacks; French power in the Iberian Peninsula was broken at Battle of Vitoria the following summer, and a new coalition began the War of the Sixth Coalition.\n\nThe coalition defeated Napoleon at Leipzig, precipitating his fall from power and eventual abdication on 6 April 1814. The victors exiled Napoleon to Elba and restored the Bourbon monarchy. Napoleon escaped from Elba in 1815, gathering enough support to overthrow the monarchy of Louis XVIII, triggering a seventh, and final, coalition against him. Napoleon was decisively defeated at Waterloo, and he abdicated again on 22 June. On 15 July, he surrendered to the British at Rochefort, and was exiled to Saint Helena, where he died in 1821. The Treaty of Paris, signed on 20 November 1815, formally ended the war.\n\nThe Bourbon monarchy was restored once more, and the victors began the Congress of Vienna, to restore peace to the continent. As a direct result of the war, the Kingdom of Prussia rose to become a great power on the continent, while Great Britain, with its unequalled Royal Navy and growing Empire became the world's dominant superpower, beginning the \"Pax Britannica\". The Holy Roman Empire was dissolved, and the philosophy of nationalism, that emerged early in the war, greatly contributed to the later unification of the German states, and those of the Italian peninsula. The war in Iberia greatly weakened Spanish power, and the Spanish Empire began to unravel; Spain would lose nearly all of its American possessions by 1833. The Portuguese Empire began a rapid decline, with Brazil declaring independence in 1822.\n\nThe wars revolutionised European warfare; the application of mass conscription and total war led to campaigns of unprecedented scale, as whole nations committed all their economic and industrial resources to a collective war effort. Tactically, the French Army redefined the role of artillery, while Napoleon emphasised mobility to offset numerical disadvantages, and aerial surveillance was used for the first time in warfare. While not a new tactic, the highly successful Spanish guerrillas demonstrated the capability of a people driven by fervent nationalism, liberalism and religious fundamentalism against an occupying force. Due to the longevity of the wars, and the extent of Napoleon's conquests, the ideals of the French Revolution had a massive impact on European social culture; many subsequent revolutions, such as that of Russia, looked to the French as their source of inspiration, while its core founding tenets greatly expanded the arena of Human rights and shaped modern political philosophies in use today.\n\nThe outbreak of the French Revolution had been received with great alarm by the rulers of Europe's continental powers, which had been further exacerbated by the execution of Louis XVI of France, and the overthrow of the French monarchy. In 1793, the Austrian Empire, the Kingdom of Sardinia, the Kingdom of Naples, Prussia, the Spanish Empire, and the Kingdom of Great Britain formed the First Coalition to curtail the growing unrest in France. Measures such as mass conscription, military reforms, and total war allowed France to defeat the coalition, despite the concurrent civil war in France. Napoleon, then a general in the French army, forced the Austrians to sign the Treaty of Campo Formio, leaving only Great Britain opposed to the fledgling French Republic.\n\nA Second Coalition formed in 1798 by Great Britain, Austria, Naples, the Ottoman Empire, the Papal States, Portugal, Russia, and Sweden. The French Republic, under the Directory, suffered from heavy levels of corruption and internal strife. The new republic also lacked funds, and no longer enjoyed the services of Lazare Carnot, the minister of war who had guided France to its victories during the early stages of the Revolution. Bonaparte, commander of the Armée d'Italie in the latter stages of the First Coalition, had launched a campaign in Egypt, intending to disrupt the British economic powerhouse of India. Pressed from all sides, the Republic suffered a string of successive defeats against revitalised enemies, supported by Britain's financial help.\nBonaparte returned to France from Egypt on 23 August 1799, his campaign there having failed. He seized control of the French government on 9 November, in a bloodless coup d'état, replacing the Directory with the Consulate and transforming the republic into a \"de facto\" dictatorship. He further reorganised the French military forces, establishing a large reserve army positioned to support campaigns on the Rhine or in Italy. Russia had already been knocked out of the war, and, under Napoleon's leadership, the French decisively defeated the Austrians in June 1800, crippling Austrian capabilities in Italy. Austria was definitively defeated that December, by Moreau's forces in Bavaria. The Austrian defeat was sealed by the Treaty of Lunéville early the following year, further compelling the British to sign the Treaty of Amiens with France, establishing a tenuous peace.\n\nNo consensus exists as to when the French Revolutionary Wars ended and the Napoleonic Wars began. Possible dates include 9 November 1799, when Bonaparte seized power on 18 Brumaire, the date according to the Republican Calendar then in use; 18 May 1803, when Britain and France ended the one short period of peace between 1792 and 1814; or 2 December 1804, when Bonaparte crowned himself Emperor.\n\nBritish historians occasionally refer to the nearly continuous period of warfare from 1792 to 1815 as the Great French War, or as the final phase of the Anglo-French Second Hundred Years' War, spanning the period 1689 to 1815. Historian Mike Rapport (2013) suggested to use the term \"French Wars\" to unambiguously describe the entire period from 1792 to 1815.\n\nIn France, the Napoleonic Wars are generally integrated with the French Revolutionary Wars: \"\".\n\nGerman historiography may count the War of the Second Coalition (1798/9–1801/2), during which Napoleon seized power, as the \"Erster Napoleonischer Krieg\" (\"First Napoleonic War\").\n\nIn Dutch historiography, it is common to refer to the seven major wars between 1792 and 1815 as the Coalition Wars (\"coalitieoorlogen\"), referring to the first two as the French Revolution Wars (\"Franse Revolutieoorlogen\").\n\nNapoleon was, and remains, famous for his battlefield victories, and historians have spent enormous attention in analysing them. In 2008, Donald Sutherland wrote:\n\nThe ideal Napoleonic battle was to manipulate the enemy into an unfavourable position through manoeuvre and deception, force him to commit his main forces and reserve to the main battle and then undertake an enveloping attack with uncommitted or reserve troops on the flank or rear. Such a surprise attack would either produce a devastating effect on morale, or force him to weaken his main battle line. Either way, the enemy's own impulsiveness began the process by which even a smaller French army could defeat the enemy's forces one by one.\n\nAfter 1807, Napoleon's creation of a highly mobile, well-armed artillery force gave artillery usage increased tactical importance. Napoleon, rather than relying on infantry to wear away the enemy's defences, could now use massed artillery as a spearhead to pound a break in the enemy's line. Once that was achieved he sent in infantry and cavalry.\n\nBritain was irritated by several French actions following the Treaty of Amiens. Bonaparte had annexed Piedmont and Elba, made himself President of the Italian Republic, a state in northern Italy that France had set up, and failed to evacuate Holland. France continued to interfere with British trade despite peace having been made and complained about Britain harbouring certain individuals and not cracking down on the anti-French press. In fighting, Napoleon focused on penetration, gaining a central position, and surrounding small groups of enemy forces. To Napoleon, penetration meant \"You engage, and then you wait and see.\" Central Positioning aimed to divide enemy forces into weaker smaller groups.\n\nMalta had been captured by Britain during the war and was subject to a complex arrangement in the 10th article of the Treaty of Amiens where it was to be restored to the Knights of St. John with a Neapolitan garrison and placed under the guarantee of third powers. The weakening of the Knights of St. John by the confiscation of their assets in France and Spain along with delays in obtaining guarantees prevented the British from evacuating it after three months as stipulated in the treaty.\nThe Helvetic Republic had been set up by France when it invaded Switzerland in 1798. France had withdrawn its troops, but violent strife broke out against the government, which many Swiss saw as overly centralised. Bonaparte reoccupied the country in October 1802 and imposed a compromise settlement. This caused widespread outrage in Britain, which protested that this was a violation of the Treaty of Lunéville. Although continental powers were unprepared to act, the British decided to send an agent to help the Swiss obtain supplies, and also ordered their military not to return Cape Colony to Holland as they had committed to do in the Treaty of Amiens.\n\nSwiss resistance collapsed before anything could be accomplished, and after a month Britain countermanded the orders not to restore Cape Colony. At the same time Russia finally joined the guarantee with regards to Malta. Concerned that there would be hostilities when Bonaparte found out that Cape Colony had been retained, the British began to procrastinate on the evacuation of Malta. In January 1803 a government paper in France published a report from a commercial agent which noted the ease with which Egypt could be conquered. The British seized on this to demand satisfaction and security before evacuating Malta, which was a convenient stepping stone to Egypt. France disclaimed any desire to seize Egypt and asked what sort of satisfaction was required but the British were unable to give a response. There was still no thought of going to war; Prime Minister Addington publicly affirmed that Britain was in a state of peace.\n\nIn early March 1803 the Addington ministry received word that Cape Colony had been re-occupied by the British army in accordance with the orders which had subsequently been countermanded. On 8 March they ordered military preparations to guard against possible French retaliation, and justified them by falsely claiming that it was only in response to French preparations and that they were conducting serious negotiations with France. In a few days it was known that Cape Colony had been surrendered in accordance with the counter-orders, but it was too late. Bonaparte berated the British ambassador in front of 200 spectators over the military preparations.\n\nThe Addington ministry realised they would face an inquiry over their false reasons for the military preparations, and during April unsuccessfully attempted to secure the support of William Pitt the Younger to shield them from damage. In the same month the ministry issued an ultimatum to France demanding the retention of Malta for at least ten years, the permanent acquisition of the island of Lampedusa from the Kingdom of Sicily, and the evacuation of Holland. They also offered to recognise French gains in Italy if they evacuated Switzerland and compensated the King of Sardinia for his territorial losses. France offered to place Malta in the hands of Russia to satisfy British concerns, pull out of Holland when Malta was evacuated, and form a convention to give satisfaction to Britain on other issues. The British falsely denied that Russia had made an offer and their ambassador left Paris. Desperate to avoid war, Bonaparte sent a secret offer where he agreed to let Britain retain Malta if France could occupy the Otranto peninsula in Naples. All efforts were futile and Britain declared war on 18 May 1803.\n\nBritain ended the uneasy truce created by the Treaty of Amiens when it declared war on France in May 1803. The British were increasingly angered by Napoleon's reordering of the international system in Western Europe, especially in Switzerland, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. Kagan argues that Britain was especially alarmed by Napoleon's assertion of control over Switzerland. Britons felt insulted when Napoleon said it deserved no voice in European affairs (even though King George was an elector of the Holy Roman Empire), and sought to restrict the London newspapers that were vilifying him.\n\nBritain had a sense of loss of control, as well as loss of markets, and was worried by Napoleon's possible threat to its overseas colonies. McLynn argues that Britain went to war in 1803 out of a \"mixture of economic motives and national neuroses – an irrational anxiety about Napoleon's motives and intentions.\" McLynn concludes that it proved to be the right choice for Britain, because in the long run Napoleon's intentions were hostile to the British national interest. Napoleon was not ready for war and so this was the best time for Britain to stop them. Britain seized upon the Malta issue, refusing to follow the terms of the Treaty of Amiens and evacuate the island.\n\nThe deeper British grievance was their perception that Napoleon was taking personal control of Europe, making the international system unstable, and forcing Britain to the sidelines. Numerous scholars have argued that Napoleon's aggressive posture made him enemies and cost him potential allies. As late as 1808, the continental powers affirmed most of his gains and titles, but the continuing conflict with Britain led him to start the Peninsular War and the invasion of Russia, which many scholars see as a dramatic miscalculation.\n\nThere was one serious attempt to negotiate peace with France during the war, made by Charles James Fox in 1806. The British wanted to retain their overseas conquests and have Hanover restored to George III in exchange for accepting French conquests on the continent. The French were willing to cede Malta, Cape Colony, Tobago, and French Indian posts to Britain but wanted to obtain Sicily in exchange for the restoration of Hanover, a condition the British refused.\n\nUnlike its many coalition partners, Britain remained at war throughout the period of the Napoleonic Wars. Protected by naval supremacy (in the words of Admiral Jervis to the House of Lords \"I do not say, my Lords, that the French will not come. I say only they will not come by sea\"), Britain maintained low-intensity land warfare on a global scale for over a decade. The British government paid out large sums of money to other European states, so that they could pay armies in the field against France. These payments are colloquially known as the Golden Cavalry of St George. The British Army provided long-term support to the Spanish rebellion in the Peninsular War of 1808–1814, assisted by Spanish guerrilla ('little war') tactics. Anglo-Portuguese forces under Arthur Wellesley supported the Spanish, which campaigned successfully against the French armies, eventually driving them from Spain and allowing Britain to invade southern France. By 1815, the British Army played the central role in the final defeat of Napoleon at Waterloo.\n\nBeyond minor naval actions against British imperial interests, the Napoleonic Wars were much less global in scope than preceding conflicts such as the Seven Years' War, which historians term a \"world war\".\n\nIn response to the naval blockade of the French coasts enacted by the British government on 16 May 1806, Napoleon issued the Berlin Decree on 21 November 1806, which brought into effect the Continental System. This policy aimed to eliminate the threat from Britain by closing French-controlled territory to its trade. Britain maintained a standing army of 220,000 at the height of the Napoleonic Wars, of whom less than half were available for campaigning. The rest were necessary for garrisoning Ireland and the colonies, and providing security for Britain. France's strength peaked at around 2,500,000 full-time and part-time soldiers including several hundred thousand National Guardsmen whom Napoleon could draft into the military if necessary. Both nations enlisted large numbers of sedentary militia who were unsuited for campaigning, and were mostly employed to release regular forces for active duty. The Royal Navy disrupted France's extra-continental trade by seizing and threatening French shipping and colonial possessions, but could do nothing about France's trade with the major continental economies and posed little threat to French territory in Europe. France's population and agricultural capacity far outstripped that of Britain. Britain had the greatest industrial capacity in Europe, and its mastery of the seas allowed it to build up considerable economic strength through trade. This ensured that France could never consolidate its control over Europe in peace. Many in the French government believed that cutting Britain off from the Continent would end its economic influence over Europe and isolate it.\n\nA key element in British success was its ability to mobilise the nation's industrial and financial resources and apply them to defeating France. With a population of 16 million against France's 30 million, the French numerical advantage was offset by British subsidies that paid for many of the Austrian and Russian soldiers, peaking at about 450,000 men in 1813. Under the Anglo-Russian agreement of 1803, Britain paid a subsidy of £1.5 million for every 100,000 Russian soldiers in the field.\n\nBritish national output remained strong, and the well-organised business sector channeled products into what the military needed. Britain used its economic power to expand the Royal Navy, doubling the number of frigates, adding 50% more large ships of the line, and increasing the number of sailors from 15,000 to 133,000 in eight years after the war began in 1793. France saw its navy shrink by more than half. The smuggling of finished products into the continent undermined French efforts to weaken the British economy by cutting off markets. Subsidies to Russia and Austria kept them in the war. The British budget in 1814 reached £66 million, including £10 million for the Royal Navy, £40 million for the army, £10 million for the allies, and £38 million as interest on the national debt, which soared to £679 million, more than double the GDP. This debt was supported by hundreds of thousands of investors and taxpayers, despite the higher taxes on land and a new income tax. The cost of the war came to £831 million. In contrast, the French financial system was inadequate and Napoleon's forces had to rely in part on requisitions from conquered lands.\n\nBritain gathered together allies to form the Third Coalition against France. In response, Napoleon seriously considered an invasion of Great Britain, and massed 180,000 troops at Boulogne. Before he could invade, he needed to achieve naval superiority—or at least to pull the British fleet away from the English Channel. A complex plan to distract the British by threatening their possessions in the West Indies failed when a Franco-Spanish fleet under Admiral Villeneuve turned back after an indecisive action off Cape Finisterre on 22 July 1805. The Royal Navy blockaded Villeneuve in Cádiz until he left for Naples on 19 October; the British squadron caught and overwhelmingly defeated the combined enemy fleet in the Battle of Trafalgar on 21 October (the British commander, Lord Nelson, died in the battle). Napoleon never again had the opportunity to challenge the British at sea, nor to threaten an invasion. He again turned his attention to enemies on the Continent.\n\nIn April 1805, Britain and Russia signed a treaty with the aim of removing the French from the Batavian Republic (roughly present-day Netherlands) and the Swiss Confederation. Austria joined the alliance after the annexation of Genoa and the proclamation of Napoleon as King of Italy on 17 March 1805. Sweden, which had already agreed to lease Swedish Pomerania as a military base for British troops against France, entered the coalition on 9 August.\n\nThe Austrians began the war by invading Bavaria with an army of about 70,000 under Karl Mack von Leiberich, and the French army marched out from Boulogne in late July 1805 to confront them. At Ulm (25 September – 20 October) Napoleon surrounded Mack's army, forcing its surrender without significant losses. With the main Austrian army north of the Alps defeated (another army under Archduke Charles manoeuvred inconclusively against André Masséna's French army in Italy), Napoleon occupied Vienna. Far from his supply lines, he faced a larger Austro-Russian army under the command of Mikhail Kutuzov, with the Emperor Alexander I of Russia personally present. On 2 December, Napoleon crushed the Austro-Russian force in Moravia at Austerlitz (usually considered his greatest victory). He inflicted 25,000 casualties on a numerically superior enemy army while sustaining fewer than 7,000 in his own force.\n\nAustria signed the Treaty of Pressburg (26 December 1805) and left the coalition. The treaty required the Austrians to give up Venetia to the French-dominated Kingdom of Italy and the Tyrol to Bavaria. With the withdrawal of Austria from the war, stalemate ensued. Napoleon's army had a record of continuous unbroken victories on land, but the full force of the Russian army had not yet come into play. Napoleon had now consolidated his hold on France, had taken control of Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and most of Western Germany and northern Italy. His admirers say that Napoleon wanted to stop now, but was forced to continue in order to gain greater security from the countries that refused to accept his conquests. Esdaille rejects that explanation and instead says that it was a good time to stop expansion, for the major powers were ready to accept Napoleon as he was:\n\nWithin months of the collapse of the Third Coalition, the Fourth Coalition (1806–07) against France was formed by Britain, Prussia, Russia, Saxony, and Sweden. In July 1806, Napoleon formed the Confederation of the Rhine out of the many tiny German states which constituted the Rhineland and most other western parts of Germany. He amalgamated many of the smaller states into larger electorates, duchies, and kingdoms to make the governance of non-Prussian Germany smoother. Napoleon elevated the rulers of the two largest Confederation states, Saxony and Bavaria, to the status of kings.\n\nIn August 1806, the Prussian king, Frederick William III, decided to go to war independently of any other great power. The army of Russia, a Prussian ally, in particular was too far away to assist. On 8 October 1806, Napoleon unleashed all the French forces east of the Rhine into Prussia. Napoleon defeated a Prussian army at Jena (14 October 1806), and Davout defeated another at Auerstädt on the same day. 160,000 French soldiers (increasing in number as the campaign went on) attacked Prussia, moving with such speed that they destroyed the entire Prussian army as an effective military force. Out of 250,000 troops the Prussians sustained 25,000 casualties, lost a further 150,000 as prisoners, 4,000 artillery pieces, and over 100,000 muskets. At Jena, Napoleon had fought only a detachment of the Prussian force. The battle at Auerstädt involved a single French corps defeating the bulk of the Prussian army. Napoleon entered Berlin on 27 October 1806. He visited the tomb of Frederick the Great and instructed his marshals to remove their hats there, saying, \"If he were alive we wouldn't be here today\". Napoleon had taken only 19 days from beginning his attack on Prussia to knock it out of the war with the capture of Berlin and the destruction of its principal armies at Jena and Auerstädt. Saxony left Prussia, and together with small states from north Germany, allied with France.\n\nIn the next stage of the war, the French drove Russian forces out of Poland and employed many Polish and German soldiers in several sieges in Silesia and Pomerania, with the assistance of Dutch and Italian soldiers in the latter case. Napoleon then turned north to confront the remainder of the Russian army and to try to capture the temporary Prussian capital at Königsberg. A tactical draw at Eylau (7–8 February 1807), followed by capitulation at Danzig (24 May 1807) and the Battle of Heilsberg (10 June 1807), forced the Russians to withdraw further north. Napoleon decisively beat the Russian army at Friedland (14 June 1807), following which Alexander had to make peace with Napoleon at Tilsit (7 July 1807). In Germany and Poland, new Napoleonic client states, such as the Kingdom of Westphalia, Duchy of Warsaw, and Republic of Danzig, were established.\n\nBy September, Marshal Guillaume Brune completed the occupation of Swedish Pomerania, allowing the Swedish army to withdraw with all its munitions of war.\n\nBritain's first response to Napoleon's Continental System was to launch a major naval attack against Denmark. Although ostensibly neutral, Denmark was under heavy French and Russian pressure to pledge its fleet to Napoleon. London could not take the chance of ignoring the Danish threat. In August 1807, the Royal Navy besieged and bombarded Copenhagen, leading to the \ncapture of the Dano-Norwegian fleet, and assuring use of the sea lanes in the North and Baltic seas for the British merchant fleet. Denmark joined the war on the side of France, but without a fleet it had little to offer, beginning an engagement in a naval guerrilla war in which small gunboats attacking larger British ships in Danish and Norwegian waters. Denmark also committed themselves to participate in a war against Sweden together with France and Russia.\n\nAt Tilsit, Napoleon and Alexander had agreed that Russia should force Sweden to join the Continental System, which led to a Russian invasion of Finland in February 1808, followed by a Danish declaration of war in March. Napoleon also sent an auxiliary corps, consisting of troops from France, Spain and the Netherlands, led by Marshal Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte, to Denmark to participate in the invasion of Sweden. But British naval superiority prevented the armies from crossing the Øresund strait, and the war came mainly to be fought along the Swedish-Norwegian border. At the Congress of Erfurt (September–October 1808), France and Russia further agreed on the division of Sweden into two parts separated by the Gulf of Bothnia, where the eastern part became the Russian Grand Duchy of Finland. British voluntary attempts to assist Sweden with humanitarian aid remained limited and did not prevent Sweden from adopting a more Napoleon-friendly policy.\n\nThe war between Denmark and Britain effectively ended with a British victory at the battle of Lyngør in 1812, involving the destruction of the last large Dano-Norwegian ship—the frigate \"Najaden\".\n\nIn 1807 Napoleon created a powerful outpost of his empire in Central Europe. Poland had recently been partitioned by its three large neighbours, but Napoleon created the Grand Duchy of Warsaw, which depended on France from the very beginning. The duchy consisted of lands seized by Austria and Prussia; its Grand Duke was Napoleon's ally the king of Saxony, but Napoleon appointed the intendants who ran the country. The population of 4.3 million was released from occupation and by 1814 sent about 200,000 men to Napoleon's armies. That included about 90,000 who marched with him to Moscow; few marched back. The Russians strongly opposed any move towards an independent Poland and one reason Napoleon invaded Russia in 1812 was to punish them. The Grand Duchy was dissolved in 1815 and Poland did not become a state until 1918. Napoleon's impact on Poland was huge, including the Napoleonic legal code, the abolition of serfdom, and the introduction of modern middle class bureaucracies.\n\nThe Fifth Coalition (1809) of Britain and Austria against France formed as Britain engaged in the Peninsular War in Spain and Portugal. The sea became a major theatre of war against Napoleon's allies. During the time of the Fifth Coalition, the Royal Navy won a succession of victories in the French colonies. On land the major battles included Battle of Raszyn, Battle of Aspern-Essling, and Battle of Wagram.\n\nOn land, the Fifth Coalition attempted few extensive military endeavours. One, the Walcheren Expedition of 1809, involved a dual effort by the British Army and the Royal Navy to relieve Austrian forces under intense French pressure. It ended in disaster after the Army commander, John Pitt, 2nd Earl of Chatham, failed to capture the objective, the naval base of French-controlled Antwerp. For the most part of the years of the Fifth Coalition, British military operations on land (apart from the Iberian Peninsula) remained restricted to hit-and-run operations executed by the Royal Navy, which dominated the sea after having beaten down almost all substantial naval opposition from France and its allies and blockading what remained of France's naval forces in heavily fortified French-controlled ports. These rapid-attack operations were aimed mostly at destroying blockaded French naval and mercantile shipping and the disruption of French supplies, communications, and military units stationed near the coasts. Often, when British allies attempted military actions within several dozen miles or so of the sea, the Royal Navy would arrive, land troops and supplies, and aid the coalition's land forces in a concerted operation. Royal Navy ships even provided artillery support against French units when fighting strayed near enough to the coastline. The ability and quality of the land forces governed these operations. For example, when operating with inexperienced guerrilla forces in Spain, the Royal Navy sometimes failed to achieve its objectives because of the lack of manpower that the Navy's guerrilla allies had promised to supply.\nEconomic warfare continued: the French Continental System against the British naval blockade of French-controlled territory. Due to military shortages and lack of organisation in French territory, many breaches of the Continental System occurred as French-dominated states tolerated or even encouraged trade with British smugglers. In terms of economic damage to Great Britain, the blockade was largely ineffective. As Napoleon realised that extensive trade was going through Spain and Russia, he invaded those two countries. He tied down his forces in Spain, and lost very badly in Russia in 1812.\n\nBoth sides entered further conflicts in attempts to enforce their blockade; the British fought the United States in the War of 1812 (1812–15), and the French engaged in the Peninsular War (1808–14) to prevent smuggling into Spain. The Iberian conflict began when Portugal continued trade with Britain despite French restrictions. When Spain failed to maintain the Continental System, the uneasy Spanish alliance with France ended in all but name. French troops gradually encroached on Spanish territory until they occupied Madrid, and installed a client monarchy. This provoked an explosion of popular rebellions across Spain. Heavy British involvement soon followed.\nAustria, previously an ally of France, took the opportunity to attempt to restore its imperial territories in Germany as held prior to Austerlitz. Austria achieved some initial victories against the thinly spread army of Marshal Berthier. Napoleon had left Berthier with only 170,000 men to defend France's entire eastern frontier (in the 1790s, 800,000 men had carried out the same task, but holding a much shorter front).\n\nAfter defeats in Spain suffered by France, Napoleon took charge and enjoyed success, retaking Madrid, defeating the Spanish and forcing a withdrawal of the heavily out-numbered British army from the Iberian Peninsula (Battle of Corunna, 16 January 1809). But when he left, the guerrilla war against his forces in the countryside continued to tie down great numbers of troops. Austria's attack prevented Napoleon from successfully wrapping up operations against British forces by necessitating his departure for Austria, and he never returned to the Peninsular theatre. The British then sent in a fresh army under Sir Arthur Wellesley (later the Duke of Wellington) whom the French could not stop.\n\nThe Peninsular war proved a major disaster for France. Napoleon did well when he was in direct charge, but severe losses followed his departure, as he severely underestimated how much manpower would be needed. The effort in Spain was a drain on money, manpower and prestige. Historian David Gates called it the \"Spanish ulcer.\" France lost the Peninsular War, and Napoleon realised it had been a disaster for his cause, writing later, \"That unfortunate war destroyed me ... All the circumstances of my disasters are bound up in that fatal knot.\"\n\nThe Peninsular campaigns witnessed 60 major battles and 30 major sieges, more than any other of the Napoleonic conflicts, and lasted over six years, far longer than any of the others. France and her allies lost at least 91,000 killed in action and 237,000 wounded in the peninsula.\n\nIn the east, the Austrians drove into the Duchy of Warsaw but suffered defeat at the Battle of Raszyn on 19 April 1809. The Polish army captured West Galicia following its earlier success. Napoleon assumed personal command and bolstered the army for a counter-attack on Austria. After a few small battles, the well-run campaign forced the Austrians to withdraw from Bavaria, and Napoleon advanced into Austria. His hurried attempt to cross the Danube resulted in the major Battle of Aspern-Essling (22 May 1809) — Napoleon's first significant tactical defeat. But the Austrian commander, Archduke Charles, failed to follow up on his indecisive victory, allowing Napoleon to prepare and seize Vienna in early July. He defeated the Austrians at Wagram, on 5–6 July. (It was during the middle of that battle that Marshal Bernadotte was stripped of his command after retreating contrary to Napoleon's orders. Shortly thereafter, Bernadotte took up the offer from Sweden to fill the vacant position of Crown Prince there. Later he actively participated in wars against his former Emperor.)\n\nThe War of the Fifth Coalition ended with the Treaty of Schönbrunn (14 October 1809). In the east, only the Tyrolese rebels led by Andreas Hofer continued to fight the French-Bavarian army until finally defeated in November 1809. In the west the Peninsular War continued. The British and Portuguese remained restricted to the area around Lisbon (behind their impregnable lines of Torres Vedras) but besieged Cadiz.\n\nIn 1810, the French Empire reached its greatest extent. Napoleon married Marie-Louise, an Austrian Archduchess, with the aim of ensuring a more stable alliance with Austria and of providing the Emperor with an heir (something his first wife, Josephine, had failed to do). As well as the French Empire, Napoleon controlled the Swiss Confederation, the Confederation of the Rhine, the Duchy of Warsaw and the Kingdom of Italy. Territories allied with the French included:\nand Napoleon's former enemies, Sweden, Prussia and Austria.\n\nThe Napoleonic Wars were the direct cause of wars in the Americas and elsewhere.\n\nThe War of 1812 coincided with the War of the Sixth Coalition. Historians in the United States and Canada see it as a war in its own right, while Europeans often see it as a minor theatre of the Napoleonic Wars. The United States declared war on Britain because of British interference with American merchant ships and forced enlistment into the British Royal Navy. France had interfered as well, and the US considered declaring war on France. The war ended in a military stalemate, and there were no boundary changes at the Treaty of Ghent, which took effect in early 1815 when Napoleon was on Elba.\n\nThe abdication of kings Carlos IV and Fernando VII of Spain and the installation of Napoleon's brother as King José provoked civil wars and revolutions leading to the independence of most of Spain's mainland American colonies. In Spanish America many local elites formed juntas and set up mechanisms to rule in the name of Ferdinand VII, whom they considered the legitimate Spanish monarch. The outbreak of the Spanish American wars of independence in most of the empire was a result of Napoleon's destabilizing actions in Spain and led to the rise of strongmen in the wake of these wars.\n\nIn contrast, the Portuguese royal family escaped to Brazil and established the court there, resulting in political stability for Portuguese America. With the defeat of Napoleon and the return of the Braganza monarchy to Portugal, the heir remained in Brazil and declared Brazilian independence, achieving it peacefully with the territory intact.\n\nThe Haitian Revolution began in 1791, just before the French Revolutionary Wars, and continued until 1804. France's defeat resulted in the independence of Saint-Domingue and led Napoleon to sell the territory making up the Louisiana Purchase to the United States.\n\nThe Treaty of Tilsit in 1807 resulted in the Anglo-Russian War (1807–12). Emperor Alexander I declared war on Britain after the British attack on Denmark in September 1807. British men-of-war supported the Swedish fleet during the Finnish War and won victories over the Russians in the Gulf of Finland in July 1808 and August 1809. The success of the Russian army on land, however, forced Sweden to sign peace treaties with Russia in 1809 and with France in 1810, and to join the blockade against Britain. But Franco-Russian relations became progressively worse after 1810, and the Russian war with Britain effectively ended. In April 1812, Britain, Russia and Sweden signed secret agreements directed against Napoleon.\n\nThe central issue for both Napoleon and Tsar Alexander I was control over Poland. Each wanted a semi-independent Poland he could control. As Esdaile notes, \"Implicit in the idea of a Russian Poland was, of course, a war against Napoleon.\" Schroeder says Poland was \"the root cause\" of Napoleon's war with Russia but Russia's refusal to support the Continental System was also a factor.\n\nIn 1812, at the height of his power, Napoleon invaded Russia with a pan-European \"Grande Armée\", consisting of 650,000 men (270,000 Frenchmen and many soldiers of allies or subject areas). The French forces crossed the Niemen River on 24 June 1812. Russia proclaimed a Patriotic War, and Napoleon proclaimed a Second Polish war. The Poles supplied almost 100,000 men for the invasion force, but against their expectations, Napoleon avoided any concessions to Poland, having in mind further negotiations with Russia.\n\nThe \"Grande Armée\" marched through Russia, winning some relatively minor engagements and the major Battle of Smolensk on 16–18 August. In the same days, part of the French Army led by Marshal Nicolas Oudinot was stopped in the Battle of Polotsk by the right wing of the Russian Army, under command of General Peter Wittgenstein. This prevented the French march on the Russian capital, Saint Petersburg; the fate of the invasion was decided in Moscow, where Napoleon led his forces in person.\n\nRussia used scorched-earth tactics, and harried the \"Grande Armée\" with light Cossack cavalry. The \"Grande Armée\" did not adjust its operational methods in response. This led to most of the losses of the main column of the \"Grande Armée\", which in one case amounted to 95,000 men, including deserters, in a week.\n\nThe main Russian army retreated for almost three months. This constant retreat led to the unpopularity of Field Marshal Michael Andreas Barclay de Tolly and a veteran, Prince Mikhail Kutuzov, was made the new Commander-in-Chief by Tsar Alexander I. Finally, the two armies engaged in the Battle of Borodino on 7 September, in the vicinity of Moscow. The battle was the largest and bloodiest single-day action of the Napoleonic Wars, involving more than 250,000 men and resulting in at least 70,000 casualties. It was indecisive; the French captured the main positions on the battlefield, but failed to destroy the Russian army. Logistical difficulties meant that French casualties could not be replaced, unlike Russian ones.\n\nNapoleon entered Moscow on 14 September, after the Russian Army had retreated yet again. By then, the Russians had largely evacuated the city and released criminals from the prisons to inconvenience the French; the governor, Count Fyodor Rostopchin, ordered the city to be burnt. Alexander I refused to capitulate, and the peace talks attempted by Napoleon failed. In October, with no sign of clear victory in sight, Napoleon began the disastrous Great Retreat from Moscow.\n\nAt the Battle of Maloyaroslavets the French tried to reach Kaluga, where they could find food and forage supplies. The replenished Russian Army blocked the road, and Napoleon was forced to retreat the same way he had come to Moscow, through the heavily ravaged areas along the Smolensk road. In the following weeks, the \"Grande Armée\" was dealt a catastrophic blow by the onset of the Russian Winter, the lack of supplies and constant guerrilla warfare by Russian peasants and irregular troops.\n\nWhen the remnants of the Napoleon's army crossed the Berezina River in November, only 27,000 fit soldiers survived, with 380,000 men dead or missing and 100,000 captured. Napoleon then left his men and returned to Paris to prepare the defence against the advancing Russians. The campaign effectively ended on 14 December 1812, when the last enemy troops left Russia. The Russians had lost around 210,000 men, but with their shorter supply lines, they soon replenished their armies.\n\nSeeing an opportunity in Napoleon's historic defeat, Prussia, Sweden, Austria, and several German states re-entered the war. Napoleon vowed that he would create a new army as large as the one he had sent into Russia, and quickly built up his forces in the east from 30,000 to 130,000 and eventually to 400,000. Napoleon inflicted 40,000 casualties on the Allies at Lützen (2 May 1813) and Bautzen (20–21 May 1813). Both battles involved forces of over 250,000, making them some of the largest conflicts of the wars so far. Metternich in November 1813 offered Napoleon the Frankfurt proposals. They would allow Napoleon to remain Emperor but France would be reduced to its \"natural frontiers\" and lose control of most of Italy and Germany and the Netherlands. Napoleon still expected to win the wars, and rejected the terms. By 1814, as the Allies were closing in on Paris, Napoleon did agree to the Frankfurt proposals, but it was too late and he rejected the new harsher terms proposed by the Allies.\nIn the Peninsular War, Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, renewed the Anglo-Portuguese advance into Spain just after New Year in 1812, besieging and capturing the fortified towns of Ciudad Rodrigo, Badajoz, and in the Battle of Salamanca (which was a damaging defeat of the French). As the French regrouped, the Anglo–Portuguese entered Madrid and advanced towards Burgos, before retreating all the way to Portugal when renewed French concentrations threatened to trap them. As a consequence of the Salamanca campaign, the French were forced to end their long siege of Cadiz and to permanently evacuate the provinces of Andalusia and Asturias.\n\nIn a strategic move, Wellesley planned to move his supply base from Lisbon to Santander. The Anglo–Portuguese forces swept northwards in late May and seized Burgos. On 21 June, at Vitoria, the combined Anglo-Portuguese and Spanish armies won against Joseph Bonaparte, finally breaking French power in Spain. The French had to retreat out of the Iberian peninsula, over the Pyrenees.\n\nThe belligerents declared an armistice from 4 June 1813 (continuing until 13 August) during which time both sides attempted to recover from the loss of approximately a quarter of a million men in the preceding two months. During this time coalition negotiations finally brought Austria out in open opposition to France. Two principal Austrian armies took the field, adding 300,000 men to the coalition armies in Germany. The Allies now had around 800,000 front-line soldiers in the German theatre, with a strategic reserve of 350,000 formed to support the front-line operations.\n\nNapoleon succeeded in bringing the imperial forces in the region to around 650,000—although only 250,000 came under his direct command, with another 120,000 under Nicolas Charles Oudinot and 30,000 under Davout. The remainder of imperial forces came mostly from the Confederation of the Rhine, especially Saxony and Bavaria. In addition, to the south, Murat's Kingdom of Naples and Eugène de Beauharnais's Kingdom of Italy had 100,000 armed men. In Spain, another 150,000 to 200,000 French troops steadily retreated before Anglo–Portuguese forces numbering around 100,000. Thus around 900,000 Frenchmen in all theatres faced around 1,800,000 coalition soldiers (including the strategic reserve under formation in Germany). The gross figures may mislead slightly, as most of the German troops fighting on the side of the French fought at best unreliably and stood on the verge of defecting to the Allies. One can reasonably say that Napoleon could count on no more than 450,000 men in Germany—which left him outnumbered about four to one.\n\nFollowing the end of the armistice, Napoleon seemed to have regained the initiative at Dresden (August 1813), where he once again defeated a numerically superior coalition army and inflicted enormous casualties, while sustaining relatively few. The failures of his marshals and a slow resumption of the offensive on his part cost him any advantage that this victory might have secured. At the Battle of Leipzig in Saxony (16–19 October 1813), also called the \"Battle of the Nations\", 191,000 French fought more than 300,000 Allies, and the defeated French had to retreat into France. After the French withdrawal from Germany, Napoleon's remaining ally, Denmark-Norway, became isolated and fell to the coalition.\nNapoleon then fought a series of battles in France, including the Battle of Arcis-sur-Aube, but the overwhelming numbers of the Allies steadily forced him back. The Allies entered Paris on 30 March 1814. During this time Napoleon fought his Six Days' Campaign, in which he won multiple battles against the enemy forces advancing towards Paris. During this entire campaign he never managed to field more than 70,000 men against more than half a million coalition soldiers. At the Treaty of Chaumont (9 March 1814), the Allies agreed to preserve the coalition until Napoleon's total defeat.\n\nNapoleon determined to fight on, even now, incapable of fathoming his fall from power. During the campaign he had issued a decree for 900,000 fresh conscripts, but only a fraction of these materialised, and Napoleon's schemes for victory eventually gave way to the reality of his hopeless situation. Napoleon abdicated on 6 April. Occasional military actions continued in Italy, Spain, and Holland in early 1814.\n\nThe victors exiled Napoleon to the island of Elba, and restored the French Bourbon monarchy in the person of Louis XVIII. They signed the Treaty of Fontainebleau (11 April 1814) and initiated the Congress of Vienna to redraw the map of Europe.\n\nThe Seventh Coalition (1815) pitted Britain, Russia, Prussia, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, the Netherlands and several German states against France. The period known as the Hundred Days began after Napoleon escaped from Elba and landed at Cannes (1 March 1815). Travelling to Paris, picking up support as he went, he eventually overthrew the restored Louis XVIII. The Allies rapidly gathered their armies to meet him again. Napoleon raised 280,000 men, whom he distributed among several armies. To add to the 90,000-strong standing army, he recalled well over a quarter of a million veterans from past campaigns and issued a decree for the eventual draft of around 2.5 million new men into the French army, which was never achieved. This faced an initial coalition force of about 700,000—although coalition campaign plans provided for one million front-line soldiers, supported by around 200,000 garrison, logistics and other auxiliary personnel.\n\nNapoleon took about 124,000 men of the Army of the North on a pre-emptive strike against the Allies in Belgium. He intended to attack the coalition armies before they combined, in hope of driving the British into the sea and the Prussians out of the war. His march to the frontier achieved the surprise he had planned, catching the Anglo-Dutch Army in a dispersed arrangement. The Prussians had been more wary, concentrating of their army in and around Ligny. The Prussians forced the Armée du Nord to fight all the day of the 15th to reach Ligny in a delaying action by the Prussian 1st Corps. He forced Prussia to fight at Ligny on 16 June 1815, and the defeated Prussians retreated in disorder. On the same day, the left wing of the Armée du Nord, under the command of Marshal Michel Ney, succeeded in stopping any of Wellington's forces going to aid Blücher's Prussians by fighting a blocking action at Quatre Bras. Ney failed to clear the cross-roads and Wellington reinforced the position. But with the Prussian retreat, Wellington too had to retreat. He fell back to a previously reconnoitred position on an escarpment at Mont St Jean, a few miles south of the village of Waterloo.\n\nNapoleon took the reserve of the Army of the North, and reunited his forces with those of Ney to pursue Wellington's army, after he ordered Marshal Grouchy to take the right wing of the Army of the North and stop the Prussians re-grouping. In the first of a series of miscalculations, both Grouchy and Napoleon failed to realise that the Prussian forces were already reorganised and were assembling at the village of Wavre. The French army did nothing to stop a rather leisurely retreat that took place throughout the night and into the early morning by the Prussians. As the 4th, 1st, and 2nd Prussian Corps marched through the town towards Waterloo the 3rd Prussian Corps took up blocking positions across the river, and although Grouchy engaged and defeated the Prussian rearguard under the command of Lt-Gen von Thielmann in the Battle of Wavre (18–19 June) it was 12 hours too late. In the end, 17,000 Prussians had kept 33,000 badly needed French reinforcements off the field.\n\nNapoleon delayed the start of fighting at the Battle of Waterloo on the morning of 18 June for several hours while he waited for the ground to dry after the previous night's rain. By late afternoon, the French army had not succeeded in driving Wellington's forces from the escarpment on which they stood. When the Prussians arrived and attacked the French right flank in ever-increasing numbers, Napoleon's strategy of keeping the coalition armies divided had failed and a combined coalition general advance drove his army from the field in confusion.\n\nGrouchy organised a successful and well-ordered retreat towards Paris, where Marshal Davout had 117,000 men ready to turn back the 116,000 men of Blücher and Wellington. Davout was defeated at the Battle of Issy and negotiations for surrender had begun.\n\nOn arriving at Paris three days after Waterloo, Napoleon still clung to the hope of a concerted national resistance; but the temper of the legislative chambers, and of the public generally, did not favour his view. Lacking support Napoleon abdicated again on 22 June 1815, and on 15 July he surrendered to the British squadron at Rochefort. The Allies exiled him to the remote South Atlantic island of Saint Helena, where he died on 5 May 1821.\n\nIn Italy, Joachim Murat, whom the Allies had allowed to remain King of Naples after Napoleon's initial defeat, once again allied with his brother-in-law, triggering the Neapolitan War (March to May 1815). Hoping to find support among Italian nationalists fearing the increasing influence of the Habsburgs in Italy, Murat issued the Rimini Proclamation inciting them to war. The proclamation failed and the Austrians soon crushed Murat at the Battle of Tolentino (2 May to 3 May 1815), forcing him to flee. The Bourbons returned to the throne of Naples on 20 May 1815. Murat tried to regain his throne, but after that failed, he was executed by firing squad on 13 October 1815.\n\nThe Napoleonic Wars brought radical changes to Europe, but the reactionary forces returned to power and tried to reverse some of them by restoring the Bourbon house on the French throne. Napoleon had succeeded in bringing most of Western Europe under one rule. In most European countries, subjugation in the French Empire brought with it many liberal features of the French Revolution including democracy, due process in courts, abolition of serfdom, reduction of the power of the Catholic Church, and a demand for constitutional limits on monarchs. The increasing voice of the middle classes with rising commerce and industry meant that restored European monarchs found it difficult to restore pre-revolutionary absolutism and had to retain many of the reforms enacted during Napoleon's rule. Institutional legacies remain to this day in the form of civil law, with clearly defined codes of law—an enduring legacy of the Napoleonic Code.\n\nFrance's constant warfare with the combined forces of the other major powers of Europe for over two decades finally took its toll. By the end of the Napoleonic Wars, France no longer held the role of the dominant power in Continental Europe, as it had since the times of Louis XIV, as the Congress of Vienna produced a \"balance of power\" by resizing the main powers so they could balance each other and remain at peace. In this regard, Prussia was restored in its former borders, and also received large chunks of Poland and Saxony. Greatly enlarged, Prussia became a permanent Great Power. In order to drag Prussia's attention towards the west and France, the Congress also gave the Rhineland and Westphalia to Prussia. These industrial regions transformed agrarian Prussia into an industrial leader in the nineteenth century. Britain emerged as the most important economic power, and its Royal Navy held unquestioned naval superiority across the globe well into the 20th century.\n\nAfter the Napoleonic period, nationalism, a relatively new movement, became increasingly significant. This shaped much of the course of future European history. Its growth spelled the beginning of some states and the end of others, as the map of Europe changed dramatically in the hundred years following the Napoleonic Era. Rule by fiefdoms and aristocracy was widely replaced by national ideologies based on shared origins and culture. Bonaparte's reign over Europe sowed the seeds for the founding of the nation-states of Germany and Italy by starting the process of consolidating city-states, kingdoms and principalities. At the end of the war Denmark was forced to cede Norway to Sweden, but because Norway had signed its own constitution on 17 May 1814, Sweden was forced to fight for the right to own Norway. The resulting union between Sweden and Norway gave Norway more independence than under Denmark and ended with Norway becoming an independent country in 1905. The United Kingdom of the Netherlands created as a buffer state against France dissolved rapidly with the independence of Belgium in 1830.\n\nThe Napoleonic wars also played a key role in the independence of the Latin American colonies from Spain and Portugal. The conflict weakened the authority and military power of Spain, especially after the Battle of Trafalgar. There were many uprisings in Spanish America, leading to the wars of independence. In Portuguese America, Brazil experienced greater autonomy as it now served as seat of the Portuguese Empire and ascended politically to the status of Kingdom. These events also contributed to the Portuguese Liberal Revolution in 1820 and the Independence of Brazil in 1822.\n\nThe century of relative transatlantic peace, after the Congress of Vienna, enabled the “greatest intercontinental migration in human history” beginning with \"a big spurt of immigration after the release of the dam erected by the Napoleonic Wars.\" Immigration inflows relative to the US population rose to record levels (peaking at 1.6% in 1850-51) as 30 million Europeans relocated to the United States between 1815 and 1914.\n\nAnother concept emerged from the Congress of Vienna – that of a unified Europe. After his defeat, Napoleon deplored the fact that his dream of a free and peaceful \"European association\" remained unaccomplished. Such a European association would share the same principles of government, system of measurement, currency and Civil Code. One-and-a-half centuries later, and after two world wars several of these ideals re-emerged in the form of the European Union.\n\nUntil the time of Napoleon, European states employed relatively small armies, made up of both national soldiers and mercenaries. These regulars were highly drilled professional soldiers. Ancien Régime armies could only deploy small field armies due to rudimentary staffs and comprehensive yet cumbersome logistics. Both issues combined to limit field forces to approximately 30,000 men under a single commander.\n\nMilitary innovators in the mid-18th century began to recognise the potential of an entire nation at war: a \"nation in arms\".\n\nThe scale of warfare dramatically enlarged during the Revolutionary and subsequent Napoleonic Wars. During Europe's major pre-revolutionary war, the Seven Years' War of 1756–1763, few armies ever numbered more than 200,000 with field forces often numbering less than 30,000. The French innovations of separate corps (allowing a single commander to efficiently command more than the traditional command span of 30,000 men) and living off the land (which allowed field armies to deploy more men without requiring an equal increase in supply arrangements such as depots and supply trains) allowed the French republic to field much larger armies than their opponents. Napoleon ensured during the time of the French republic that separate French field armies operated as a single army under his control, often allowing him to substantially outnumber his opponents. This forced his continental opponents to increase the size of their armies as well, moving away from the traditional small, well drilled Ancien Régime armies of the 18th century to mass conscript armies.\n\nThe Battle of Marengo, which largely ended the War of the Second Coalition, was fought with fewer than 60,000 men on both sides. The Battle of Austerlitz which ended the War of the Third Coalition involved fewer than 160,000 men. The Battle of Friedland which led to peace with Russia in 1807 involved about 150,000 men.\n\nAfter these defeats, the continental powers developed various forms of mass conscription to allow them to face France on even terms, and the size of field armies increased rapidly. The battle of Wagram of 1809 involved 300,000 men, and 500,000 fought at Leipzig in 1813, of whom 150,000 were killed or wounded.\n\nAbout a million French soldiers became casualties (wounded, invalided or killed), a higher proportion than in the First World War. The European total may have reached 5,000,000 military deaths, including disease.\n\nFrance had the second-largest population in Europe by the end of the 18th century (27 million, as compared to Britain's 12 million and Russia's 35 to 40 million). It was well poised to take advantage of the \"levée en masse\". Before Napoleon's efforts, Lazare Carnot played a large part in the reorganisation of the French army from 1793 to 1794—a time which saw previous French misfortunes reversed, with Republican armies advancing on all fronts.\nThe French army peaked in size in the 1790s with 1.5 million Frenchmen enlisted although battlefield strength was much less. Haphazard bookkeeping, rudimentary medical support and lax recruitment standards ensured that many soldiers either never existed, fell ill or were unable to withstand the physical demands of soldiering.\n\nAbout 2.8 million Frenchmen fought on land and about 150,000 at sea, bringing the total for France to almost 3 million combatants during almost 25 years of warfare.\nBritain had 750,000 men under arms between 1792 and 1815 as its army expanded from 40,000 men in 1793 to a peak of 250,000 men in 1813. Over 250,000 sailors served in the Royal Navy. In September 1812, Russia had 900,000 enlisted men in its land forces, and between 1799 and 1815 2.1 million men served in its army. Another 200,000 served in the Russian Navy. Out of the 900,000 men, the field armies deployed against France numbered less than 250,000.\n\nThere are no consistent statistics for other major combatants. Austria's forces peaked at about 576,000 (during the War of the Sixth Coalition) and had little or no naval component yet never fielded more than 250,000 men in field armies. After Britain, Austria proved the most persistent enemy of France; more than a million Austrians served during the long wars. Its large army was overall quite homogeneous and solid and in 1813 operated in Germany (140,000 men), Italy and the Balkans (90,000 men at its peak, about 50,000 men during most of the campaigning on these fronts). Austria's manpower was becoming quite limited towards the end of the wars, leading its generals to favour cautious and conservative strategies, to limit their losses.\nPrussia never had more than 320,000 men under arms at any time. In 1813–1815, the core of its army (about 100,000 men) was characterised by competence and determination, but the bulk of its forces consisted of second- and third-line troops, as well as militiamen of variable strength. Many of these troops performed reasonably well and often displayed considerable bravery but lacked the professionalism of their regular counterparts and were not as well equipped. Others were largely unfit for operations, except sieges. During the 1813 campaign, 130,000 men were used in the military operations, with 100,000 effectively participating in the main German campaign, and about 30,000 being used to besiege isolated French garrisons.\n\nSpain's armies also peaked at around 200,000 men, not including more than 50,000 guerrillas scattered over Spain. In addition the Maratha Confederation, the Ottoman Empire, Italy, Naples and the Duchy of Warsaw each had more than 100,000 men under arms. Even small nations now had armies rivalling the size of the Great Powers' forces of past wars but most of these were poor quality forces only suitable for garrison duties. The size of their combat forces remained modest yet they could still provide a welcome addition to the major powers. The percentage of French troops in the Grande Armee which Napoleon led into Russia was about 50% while the French allies also provided a significant contribution to the French forces in Spain. As these small nations joined the coalition forces in 1813–1814, they provided a useful addition to the coalition while depriving Napoleon of much needed manpower.\n\nThe initial stages of the Industrial Revolution had much to do with larger military forces—it became easy to mass-produce weapons and thus to equip larger forces. Britain was the largest single manufacturer of armaments in this period. It supplied most of the weapons used by the coalition powers throughout the conflicts. France produced the second-largest total of armaments, equipping its own huge forces as well as those of the Confederation of the Rhine and other allies.\n\nNapoleon showed innovative tendencies in his use of mobility to offset numerical disadvantages, as demonstrated in the rout of the Austro-Russian forces in 1805 in the Battle of Austerlitz. The French Army redefined the role of artillery, forming independent, mobile units, as opposed to the previous tradition of attaching artillery pieces in support of troops.\n\nThe semaphore system had allowed the French War-Minister, Carnot, to communicate with French forces on the frontiers throughout the 1790s. The French continued to use this system throughout the Napoleonic wars. Aerial surveillance was used for the first time when the French used a hot-air balloon to survey coalition positions before the Battle of Fleurus, on 26 June 1794.\n\nHistorians have explored how the Napoleonic wars became total wars. Most historians argue that the escalation in size and scope came from two sources. First was the ideological clash between revolutionary/egalitarian and conservative/hierarchical belief systems. Second was the emerging nationalism in France, Germany, Spain, and elsewhere that made these \"people's wars\" instead of contests between monarchs. Bell has argued that even more important than ideology and nationalism were the intellectual transformations in the culture of war that came about through the Enlightenment. One factor, he says, is that war was no longer a routine event but a transforming experience for societies—a total experience. Secondly the military emerged in its own right as a separate sphere of society distinct from the ordinary civilian world. The French Revolution made every civilian a part of the war machine, either as a soldier through universal conscription, or as a vital cog in the home front machinery supporting and supplying the army. Out of that, says Bell, came \"militarism,\" the belief that the military role was morally superior to the civilian role in times of great national crisis. The fighting army represented the essence of the nation's soul. As Napoleon proclaimed, \"It is the soldier who founds a Republic and it is the soldier who maintains it.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39227650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39227650", "title": "Operation Cybersnare", "text": "Operation Cybersnare\n\nOperation Cybersnare was a United States Secret Service operation in 1995 targeted at computer hackers.\n\nIn January 1995, the Secret Service set up an undercover bulletin board system in Bergen County, New Jersey. This was the first undercover Internet sting of its kind. With the help of an undercover informant, they advertised the bulletin board across the Internet. The topics for discussion were cellular telephone cloning and computer hacking.\n\nIn September, twelve raids across the country resulted in the arrest of six hackers. From the press release, those arrested were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7963847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963847", "title": "PhishTank", "text": "PhishTank\n\nPhishTank is an anti-phishing site.\n\nPhishTank was launched in October 2006 by entrepreneur David Ulevitch as an offshoot of OpenDNS. The company offers a community-based phish verification system where users submit suspected phishes and other users \"vote\" if it is a phish or not.\n\nPhishTank is used by Opera, , Yahoo! Mail, Mcafee, APWG, CMU, ST Benard, Mozilla, Kaspersky, Firetrust, Officer Blue, FINRA, Message Level, SURBL, Sanesecurity for ClamAV, Career Builder, Site Truth, Avira, C-SIRT, and by PhishTank SiteChecker.\n\nPhishTank data is provided \"gratis\" for download or for access via an API call, including for commercial use, under a restrictive license.\n\nIn 2018, it was announced that PhishTank will be rebuilding the website, with new features and functionality. This work will begin in 2019.\n\n"}
{"id": "34503954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34503954", "title": "Public holidays in Laos", "text": "Public holidays in Laos\n\nPublic holidays in Laos are days when workers get the day off work.\n\n"}
{"id": "35697983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35697983", "title": "Ronaldinho Gaucho's Team", "text": "Ronaldinho Gaucho's Team\n\nRonaldinho Gaucho's Team is an Italian animated television series based on the Brazilian soccer star Ronaldinho Gaúcho. The pilot episode was first broadcast on October 15, 2011, on the DeA Kids channel.\n\n\"Ronaldinho Gaucho's Team\" is the first animated series for TV produced by the Italian studio GIG Italy Entertainment, with the co-production of MSP - Mauricio de Sousa Produções, which publishes in Brazil the \"Ronaldinho Gaucho\" comic strip based on the fictionalised version of Ronaldinho as a child. The stories are based on the animated adventures of the character in comics, with 52 episodes of 11 minutes each.\n\n"}
{"id": "25618046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25618046", "title": "Ruhaniyat – The All India Sufi &amp; Mystic Music Festival", "text": "Ruhaniyat – The All India Sufi &amp; Mystic Music Festival\n\nRuhaniyat – The All India Sufi & Mystic Music Festival is a music festival held in across India. It is organised by Mumbai-based cultural organisation Banyan Tree Events between November and March every year. This Sufi festival is one of the biggest of its kind, and is held in Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Pune and Hyderabad. Musicians from various parts of India — sufi qawwals, mystic musicians, Kabir panthis, and Bauls — perform at the festival.\n\nThe Ruhaniyat festival started in 2001, the brainchild of Mahesh Babu and Nandini Mahesh, the Directors of Banyan Tree Events, to promote sufi and mystic music has evolved into a prestigious event.\n\nRuhaniyat means \"Soulfulness\". The festival features the best of maestros in classical, folk and sufi music, discovered from the interiors of remote Indian villages, Turkey, Egypt, Syria etc.\n\nParvathy Baul, Warsi Brothers, Ateeq Hussain Khan, Jari Sufi compositions of Azan Fakir of Manipur, Hafiza Begum Chaudhury, Kabirpanthis Prahlad Tippania from Devas in Madhya Pradesh, Jagar music by Rakesh Bhatt, Vithal Rao etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "2640039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2640039", "title": "Shelter from the Storm: A Concert for the Gulf Coast", "text": "Shelter from the Storm: A Concert for the Gulf Coast\n\nShelter from the Storm: A Concert for the Gulf Coast was a one-hour, commercial-free benefit concert television special that aired simulcast worldwide on September 9, 2005 at 8 p.m. ET/CT live (with a 30-second tape delay) from New York City and Los Angeles and tape delayed in the Mountain Time Zone and Pacific Time Zones. The special raised money for the relief efforts from the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. It was broadcast in over 100 different countries. All proceeds went to the American Red Cross or The Salvation Army.\n\nThe concert was a cooperative and collaborative global effort between ABC, CBS, NBC, FOX, UPN, and The WB. Several cable stations have also cleared space for the concert. It featured appearances and musical performances by celebrities from the world of film, television and music. Approximately $30 million was raised for the American Red Cross and The Salvation Army.\n\nThe event was produced by Joel Gallen and followed very closely in the footprints of \"\", which raised money for the relief efforts from the aftermath of the September 11 attacks (both telethons had the Los Angeles segments at CBS Television City). It featured performances by popular musicians along with commentary by various actors and other celebrities. Celebrities also answered phone calls to help collect donations.\n\n\nSpoken appearances were made by Bruce Willis, Julia Roberts, Don Cheadle, Jennifer Aniston, Jack Black, Cameron Diaz, Ellen DeGeneres, Morgan Freeman, Jack Nicholson, Chris Rock, Ray Romano, and Sela Ward.\n\nPhones were answered by Ben Affleck, Jason Alexander, Jennifer Aniston, Sean Astin, Angela Bassett, Jack Black, Adrien Brody, Don Cheadle, Michael Chiklis, Ellen DeGeneres, Benicio del Toro, Danny DeVito, Cameron Diaz, Jennifer Garner, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Randy Jackson, Allison Janney, Christine Lahti, Reba McEntire, Mandy Moore, Jack Nicholson, Jeremy Piven, Emily Procter, Dennis Quaid, Julia Roberts, The Rock, Ray Romano, Doug Savant, Jimmy Smits, Mary Steenburgen, Nia Vardalos, Sela Ward, Bruce Willis, Alfre Woodard, and James Woods.\n\nThe program was released on DVD by 20th Century Fox on December 6, 2005.\n\nThis program is not to be confused with A Concert for Hurricane Relief, which NBC aired by itself the previous Friday night, September 2. It was on that show that Kanye West commented on President George W. Bush's handling of the disaster.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19285660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19285660", "title": "Sinking of the Chian-der 3", "text": "Sinking of the Chian-der 3\n\nThe sinking of the \"Chian-der 3\" was an incident occurred on 28 May 1986, when the Taiwanese-flagged trawler \"Chian-der 3\" was detected, tracked, fired upon, set on fire and eventually sunk by the Coast Guard Mantilla class patrol vessel \"Prefecto Derbes\" (GC-28) of the Prefectura Naval Argentina, at a location outside the United Kingdom's Total Exclusion Zone, which covers a circle of from the centre of the Falklands Islands. Two Taiwanese fishermen were killed; four others were injured.\n\nThe overlapping of the Exclusive Economic Zone of the Argentine mainland and the Falklands and the British exclusion zone for Argentine ships is used by fishing fleets in order to fish without permission, said the Argentine government.\n\nAccording to an Argentine statement the trawler \"Chi-Fu 6\" was detected fishing in the Argentine zone at 11:45, but she took refuge in the British zone. At 18:25 the trawler \"Chian-der 3\" was spotted again within the Argentine zone of . Despite requests to stop and warning shots being fired by \"Prefecto Derbes\", the trawler escaped and was chased. At 21:05 the Argentine commander stated that he saw that the trawler stopped and emitting smoke from the engine room. He ordered the rescue of the trawler's crew. According to official sources, the trawler was hit by non-explosive rounds. As a result of the incident, one Taiwanese fisherman was killed and four others wounded. Another member of the crew became missing.\n\nThe Taiwan fishermen's union called it a \"barbaric act\" and the British government condemned it as \"unjustifiable and excessive\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29980398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29980398", "title": "SoCal Olympians", "text": "SoCal Olympians\n\nThe SoCal Olympians and Paralympians, is the largest and the oldest organization of the United States Olympic team in the United States, with a current membership of approximately 800 athletes.\nSince 1912, this chapter has continually supplied the largest percentage of athletes that comprise the United States at the Olympics.\n\nThe organization dates back to 1919, and was formerly titled the Southern California Olympian chapter.\nThe membership area includes areas in Southern California from Fresno, California, to the Southern California border with Mexico, a distance of over 300 miles.\n\nThe current chapter was founded on March 19, 1949, with its first president, Fred Kelly of Orange, California. Since that time the SoCal Olympians and Paralympians has sought to perpetuate Southern California's outstanding Olympic heritage which dates back to 1904.\n\nThe SoCal Olympians & Paralympians help fund the dreams of future USA Olympians, Paralympians, coordinate member appearances at youth, community and corporate events, offer fellowship to members of past and current Olympic teams, and support the creation of an active, visible worldwide Olympian organization.\n\nMore than 800 USA Olympians and Paralympians from past and present United States Olympic Teams who live and work in Southern California draw upon their athletic experiences to inspire and pass on the Olympic ideals of the Olympic Charter to its communities and to enrich the lives of the youth of Southern California.\n\nThe organization stages a Welcome Home Dinner for Olympians after each summer Olympic Games, and provides sports motivational speakers to local community groups. They participate in celebrity Golf tournaments and provide grants to Olympic and Paralympic hopefuls through their 501C3 charity, the Koroibos Foundation.\n\nThe SoCal Olympicians support the international Olympic Day by hosting sports clinics during the month of June.\n\nThe current president is Tamara Christopherson, who represented Team USA in the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18743677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18743677", "title": "Tahir Jalil Habbush al-Tikriti", "text": "Tahir Jalil Habbush al-Tikriti\n\nTahir Jalil Habbush al Takriti (; born 1950) is a former Iraqi intelligence official who served under the regime of Saddam Hussein; in 2001, he was Iraq's head of intelligence and as such, informed MI6 in January 2003 (shortly before the start of the Iraq War) that Iraq had no WMD. He was the Jack of Diamonds in the most-wanted Iraqi playing cards and is still a fugitive with up to $1 million reward for information leading to his capture.\n\nAccording to the London Sunday \"Telegraph\", Mohamed Atta is mentioned in a letter allegedly discovered in Iraq handwritten by Tahir Jalil Habbush al Takriti, former chief of the Iraqi Intelligence Service. Habbush's July 1, 2001, memo is labeled \"Intelligence Items\" and is addressed: \"To the President of the Ba'ath Revolution Party and President of the Republic, may God protect you.\"\nIt continues:\n\nThe memo is believed to be a forgery. According to Newsweek, \"U.S. officials and a leading Iraqi document expert [say] the document is most likely a forgery, part of a thriving new trade in dubious Iraqi documents that has cropped up in the wake of the collapse of Saddam's regime.\" In \"The Way of the World\", author Ron Suskind alleges that the Bush administration itself ordered the forgery. Habbush then supposedly signed the letter, having already been resettled in Jordan with $5 million from the US.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48576570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48576570", "title": "Taking Tea With Stalin", "text": "Taking Tea With Stalin\n\nTaking Tea With Stalin is a drama written by playwright Ronald Harwood.\n\nHarwood presented the fascination of European intellectuals with Soviet Union. George Bernard Shaw with Nancy Astor and Waldorf Astor visit Stalin in Moscow.\n\nDrama was filmed by Polish Television in 2001 under the title \"Herbatka u Stalina\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3875272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3875272", "title": "Tubachristmas", "text": "Tubachristmas\n\nTubaChristmas is a music concert held in cities worldwide that celebrates those who play, teach, and compose music for instruments in the tuba family, including the tuba, sousaphone, baritone, and euphonium, though some participants bring rarer members of the family such as the helicon, ophicleide, serpent and double bell euphonium.\n\nThe first TubaChristmas was organized by Harvey G. Phillips to honor his tuba teacher William Bell, who was born on Christmas Day 1902, and was held December 22, 1974, in the ice skating rink at New York City's Rockefeller Center; Paul Lavalle conducted. Over 300 musicians played that day, beginning a holiday tradition. The arrangements of the Christmas carols were written by Alec Wilder, who coincidentally died on Christmas Eve 1980.\n\nIt was not easy to convince Rockefeller Center to let hundreds of tubas play on the ice rink. Phillips had to provide the unlisted telephone numbers of some of his friends: Leopold Stokowski, Leonard Bernstein, Andre Kostelanetz, and Morton Gould. He was given free rein after his references were checked.\n\nTubaChristmas concerts vary in size from a quartet (two euphoniums and two tubas), to several hundred at their largest events. Any musician can play in a TubaChristmas concert as long as he or she plays an instrument in the tuba family (conical bore). There is a nominal participant registration fee.\n\nThe TubaChristmas version of \"Jingle Bells\", arranged by Norlan Bewley, incorporates the trio section of the \"National Emblem\" march by Edwin Eugene Bagley before returning to the \"Jingle Bells\" melody.\n\nTubaChristmas coordinators in New York City include Michael Salzman, one of Harvey Phillips' former students at Indiana University. Salzman is the tuba and euphonium professor at Hofstra University.\n\n"}
{"id": "30836347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30836347", "title": "Vancouver Pop Festival", "text": "Vancouver Pop Festival\n\nThe Vancouver Pop Festival was a Canadian rock festival held at the Paradise Valley Resort in Squamish, British Columbia. The dates of the festival were August 22, 23 and 24, 1969. It was produced by Candi Promotions.\n\nNeither the Grateful Dead nor Strawberry Alarm Clock played. A band named Crow was the surprise hit for those who liked hard rock. Bikers provided an uncomfortable, \"avoid taking hallucinogens\" vibe.\n\nDue to problems with paid attendance, only some of the acts listed below performed. It has been claimed that the Grateful Dead did not perform but Jerry Garcia biographer Blair Jackson disputed this, and speculated the Dead took the gig to move on from their poor performance at the Woodstock festival a week earlier. The groups playing at the festival included (in alphabetical order): \n\n"}
{"id": "28423980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28423980", "title": "VerCiência", "text": "VerCiência\n\nVerCiência is an International Exhibition of Science on TV.\n\nAnnual festival devoted to science communication on television created in Brazil in 1994 by Sergio Moraes Castanheira Brandao and .\n\nIt is a non-competitive, non-commercial and non-profitable event, with free admission to the general public in all sessions.\n\nThe main objective of the VerCiência Project is to encourage and promote the dissemination of knowledge and scientific culture through television. It has the support of the Ministry of Science Technology and Innovation of Brazil as part of the Brazilian National Week of Science and Technology. The main sponsor of VerCiência is Petrobras.\n\nThe annual VerCiência exhibitions take place simultaneously in several Brazilian cities, such as Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo and Brasília, usually in the third week of October (coinciding with the National Week of Science and Technology) and consist in the exhibition of a selection of science TV programmes produced in Brazil and other countries.\n\nAmong main traditional international participants of the Ver Ciência exhibitions are the BBC (UK) and WGBH (US), with programmes such as \"Horizon\" and \"Nova\", good examples of how science and technology can be conveyed in an interesting and informative manner to the general public.\n\n"}
{"id": "35028053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35028053", "title": "Ward Memorial Hall", "text": "Ward Memorial Hall\n\nWard Memorial Hall is an 1880s theater building within the Northwestern Branch, National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers Historic District, located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It is part of the Milwaukee Soldiers Home complex, designated Building No. 41, on the present day Clement J. Zablocki VA Medical Center grounds.\n\nThe 900 seat theater was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1984, as part an effort to renovate and preserve it.\n\nWard Memorial Hall was built in 1881-82 during a period of expansion for the Northwestern Branch of the National Home for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers facilities, originally the National Asylum for Disabled Volunteer Soldiers (1867−1873). On its completion theatrical entertainment moved from the chapel in the 1869 Main Building.\nProminent Milwaukee architect Henry C. Koch designed Ward Memorial Hall in the High Victorian Gothic Revival and Romanesque Revival styles, with a theater/meeting room, commissary store, restaurant, and railroad passenger station. This unusual combination of building uses was to serve the growing recreational needs of the Milwaukee Soldiers Home. It has a wide veranda wrapping around three sides.\n\nIt is one of the oldest theaters in Wisconsin. \"Renaissance style\" frescoes were designed by J. H. Harding and created under his supervision on the theater's ceiling. They was covered over by a barrel vaulted ceiling when the theater was expanded, but still remain. In 1888 a large stained glass window depicting General U. S. Grant depicted astride his horse was donated by the Grand Army of the Republic, installed on second floor of the east façade, reconfiguring two preexisting windows.\n\nGradually functions such as the train depot, post office, and store were moved to different structures and the theater facilities were expanded. In 1898 the theater space was entirely reconfigured to have a sloped floor, balcony, and boxes flanking the proscenium stage, and more fire exits.\n\nIt was the Milwaukee Soldiers Home's venue for professional entertainments, including lectures, concerts, minstrel and theater companies, and regional vaudeville circuit productions. It has featured performers such as Will Rogers, Sophie Tucker, Ethel Merman, Nat King Cole, Liberace, George Jessel, Bob Hope, and Burns and Allen. After World War II, the theater gradually fell into disuse by resident veterans.\n\nFrom 1981 through 1992 the Milwaukee Players, a local theater company, used the theater for rehearsals and offices. A movement led by the Soldiers Home Foundation, Inc., the American Legion, and other groups began to raise funds to renovate the theater in the early 1980s. Milwaukee native and famous performer Wladziu \"Walter\" Liberace (1919-1987) offered limited help. When young in the 1920s he had performed at the theater, when visiting veterans with his mother.\n\nAmbitious fundraising efforts by the Soldiers Home Foundation floundered and currently Ward Memorial Hall sits vacant. The building is deteriorating, mainly due to water infiltration and lack of climate control.\n\nThe Milwaukee Soldiers Home's vacant buildings, including Ward Memorial Hall, are on the National Trust for Historic Preservation List of 11 Most Endangered Historic Places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9376895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9376895", "title": "World Invitational Hula Festival", "text": "World Invitational Hula Festival\n\nThe World Invitational Hula Festival is a three-day event that perpetuates Hawaiian culture as a celebration of the artistic rendering of the Hawaiian hula dance. The festival is in its 20th year of production and is the largest and farthest reaching event of its kind.\n\nThousands of participants from 16 countries have honed their hula skills throughout the years and participated in hundreds of events to secure travel to Hawaii each November. Hula artists from American Samoa, Canada, Germany, Guam, the Netherlands, Iran, Japan (14+ cities), Korea, Marianas, Mexico, Namibia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Philippines, Sweden, the continental U.S. (12+ cities), Western Samoa, and Hawaii participate in this on-going celebration of Hawaiian culture, art, music, dance, language, history and all natural things in the Hawaiian environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "33247894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33247894", "title": "Yanis Varoufakis", "text": "Yanis Varoufakis\n\nIoannis Georgiou \"Yanis\" Varoufakis (, ; born 24 March 1961) is a Greek economist, academic and politician, who served as the Greek Minister of Finance from January to July 2015, when he resigned. Varoufakis was a Syriza member of the Hellenic Parliament (MP) for Athens B from January to September 2015.\n\nVaroufakis was born in Athens in 1961 and attended Moraitis School before moving to the United Kingdom, where he studied mathematics at the University of Essex before attaining a postgraduate degree in mathematical statistics at University of Birmingham and a PhD in economics at Essex. He began a career in academic economics, teaching at the universities of Essex, East Anglia and Cambridge between 1982 and 1988. Following Margaret Thatcher's third election victory in 1987, Varoufakis left the UK and moved to Australia, where he taught at the University of Sydney until 2000. He returned to Greece that year to teach at the University of Athens, where he led a doctoral program and was promoted to full professor in 2005. Following this, Varoufakis had periods of advising George Papandreou and working as the economist-in-residence for Valve Corporation before moving to the United States to teach at the University of Texas at Austin. Varoufakis has published a number of texts on economics and game theory, such as \"The Global Minotaur\".\n\nIn January 2015, Varoufakis was appointed Greek Minister of Finance, and led negotiations with Greece's creditors during the Greek government-debt crisis. However, he failed to reach an agreement with the European troika, leading to the 2015 Greek bailout referendum. While the referendum rejected the troika bailout terms, the day following the referendum Varoufakis resigned as Minister of Finance and was replaced by Euclid Tsakalotos. On 24 August, Varoufakis voted against the third bailout package, and in the ensuing September snap election, did not stand for re-election. Varoufakis has since appeared in numerous debates, lectures, and interviews. In February 2016, he launched the Democracy in Europe Movement 2025 (DiEM25), and subsequently backed a Remain vote in the UK's European Union membership referendum 2016.\n\nIn late October 2018, Varoufakis announced the upcoming launch of Progressive International with U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders.\n\nVaroufakis was born in Palaio Faliro, Athens, on 24 March 1961, to Georgios and Eleni Varoufakis.\n\nVaroufakis's father, Georgios Varoufakis, was a Greek Egyptian who emigrated from Cairo to Greece in the 1940s, arriving in the midst of the Greek Civil War. One day, he was \"roughed up\" by the police and asked to sign a denunciation of communism. In response, he said: \"Look I am not a Buddhist, but I would never sign a denunciation of Buddhism\". He therefore ended up spending several years imprisoned on the island of Makronisos, which was used for the political re-education of people who fought on the communist side in the war. After being released in 1950, he completed his university studies and found employment as the personal assistant to the owner of Halyvourgiki, Greece's biggest steel producer. He is now, at the age of 90, Chairman of Halyvourgiki's Board of Directors.\n\nVaroufakis's mother, a student at the University of Athens School of Chemistry at the time she met Georgios, abandoned her conservative background after meeting her husband who was, at the time, allied to United Democratic Left (EDA). In the mid-1970s Eleni Varoufaki became an activist for the Women's Union of Greece, which promoted gender equality and had been set up by members of PASOK. By the early-1980s, the couple had converged politically to the same political centre-left views and engaged with the socialist PASOK. Eleni was elected Deputy Mayor of Palaio Faliro a few years before she died in 2008.\n\nVaroufakis was six years old when the military coup d'état of April 1967 took place. Varoufakis later said that the military junta showed him a \"sense of what it means to be both unfree and, at once, convinced that the possibilities for progress and improvement are endless\". The junta collapsed when Varoufakis was in junior high school. Attending the private Moraitis School, Varoufakis decided early to spell his first name with one 'n', rather than the standard two, for \"aesthetic\" reasons. When his teacher gave him a low mark for that, he became angry and has continued spelling his first name with one 'n' ever since.\n\nVaroufakis finished his secondary education around 1976, when his parents deemed it too dangerous for him to continue his education in Greece. Therefore, he moved to the United Kingdom in 1978 where he entered the University of Essex. His \"initial urge was to study physics\" but he decided that \"the lingua franca of political discourse was economics\". He therefore enrolled in the economics course at Essex, but it has also been suggested that he decided to enroll in economics after meeting Andreas Papandreou. After only a few weeks of lectures, Varoufakis switched his degree to mathematics. Whilst at the University of Essex he joined a variety of political organisations including ComSoc (the University Communist Society) and the Troops Out Movement, which campaigned for a British withdrawal from Northern Ireland. He also became involved with the African National Congress, Palestine Liberation Organization, and other organisations such as those in solidarity with Chile. Varoufakis was also elected as secretary of the Black Students Alliance, a choice that caused some controversy, given that he is not black, to which he responded by telling them, according to his PhD supervisor Monojit Chatterjee, \"that black was a political term and, as a Greek, on the grounds of ethnicity he had as much reason to be there as anyone else.\" Varoufakis also took part in student debates, where one of his rivals was John Bercow, who later became the Speaker of the House of Commons.\n\nHe moved to the University of Birmingham in October 1981, obtaining an MSc in mathematical statistics in October 1982. He completed his PhD in economics, writing a thesis on Optimization and Strikes, back at the University of Essex, where his PhD supervisor was Monojit Chatterjee. He completed his PhD in 1987.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1988, Varoufakis taught economics and econometrics at the University of Essex and the University of East Anglia, and also taught at the University of Cambridge. He did not wish to return to Greece for fear of conscription, and so accepted an offer to lecture at the University of Sydney, where he remained until 2000. From 1989 to 2000, he taught as senior lecturer in economics at the Department of Economics of the University of Sydney, with short stints at the University of Glasgow and the Université catholique de Louvain. Varoufakis, during his time in Sydney, had his own slot on a local television show where he was critical of John Howard's conservative government. He also acquired Australian citizenship.\n\nIn 2000, a combination of \"nostalgia and abhorrence of the conservative turn of the land Down Under\", led Varoufakis to return to Greece where he was unanimously elected an associate professor of economic theory at the University of Athens. In 2002, Varoufakis established \"The University of Athens Doctoral Program in Economics\" (UADPhilEcon), which he directed until 2008. In 2005 he was promoted to full professor of economic theory.\n\nFrom January 2004 to December 2006, Varoufakis served as economic advisor to George Papandreou, of whose government he was to become an ardent critic a few years later.\n\nBeginning in March 2012, Varoufakis became economist-in-residence at Valve Corporation. He researched the virtual economy on the Steam digital delivery platform, specifically looking at exchange rates and trade deficits. In June 2012, he began a blog about his research at Valve. In February 2013 his function at Valve was to work on a game for predicting trends in gaming. From January 2013 he taught at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas at Austin as a visiting professor. In November 2013, he was appointed guest professor at Stockholm University, Department of Computer and Systems Sciences, to work within game and decision theory at the eGovLab. In 2013, he was appointed the Athens desk editor of the online magazine \"WDW Review\", in which he contributed until January 2015. On 22 January 2015, the International University College of Turin awarded to Varoufakis an honorary professorship in comparative law economics and finance for his extraordinary theoretical contribution to the understanding of the global economic crisis. Veroufakis is a regular contributor to Project Syndicate since 2015.\n\nVaroufakis was elected to the Greek parliament, gathering the largest number of votes (more than 142 thousand) of any Greek MP, representing Syriza, and took office in the new government of Alexis Tsipras two days later, on 27 January 2015. He was appointed Finance Minister by Tsipras shortly after the election victory. The party promised to renegotiate Greece's debt and significantly curtail the austerity measures which had led to the longest recession in post-war global history.\n\nThe new government had to negotiate an extension on its loan agreement, due to expire on the 28th February 2015. Had it expired without renewal, the European Central Bank would have pulled its liquidity provisions from Greece's commercial banks, ensuring that they closed their doors to the public. Varoufakis led this negotiation at the Eurogroup and with the International Monetary Fund. On 20 February, at the Eurogroup, an agreement to extend the Greek loan \"facility\" for four months, until 30 June 2015, was struck and Varoufakis hailed it as crucial – because it represented a fresh start by specifying that the terms of the loan would be renegotiated and its conditions would be re-drawn on the basis of a new list of reforms to be provided by the Greek government. That list was submitted by Varoufakis on 23 February and was approved by the Eurogroup on 24 February. On those grounds, Varoufakis signed the official document by which the loan agreement's expiry date was to be extended from 28 February to 30 June 2015 – a four-month period during which a new agreement was to be negotiated.\n\nVaroufakis' view on Greece's public debt, and the 2010 crisis which began as a result of the Greek governments' inability to fund it, was that EU bailouts were attempts to take on the largest loan in history on condition of austerity measures that would shrink the incomes from which old, un-serviceable loans and new bailout debts would have to be repaid. Varoufakis argued that the \"bailout\" loans of 2010 and 2012, before restructuring the debt properly and putting in place a developmental program (including reforming the oligarchy, creating a development bank and dealing with the banks' non-performing loans) would lead to deeper bankruptcy, a great depression and a harder default in the future. His explanation of why the troika of Greece's lenders (the IMF, the ECB, and the European Commission) insisted on these bailout loans was that they represented a transfer of losses from the private banks to Greece's and Europe's taxpayers. In his view, the 20 February 2015 Eurogroup agreement that he negotiated, \"was an excellent opportunity to move forward.\"\n\nHowever, the troika of lenders were not happy to let the new Greek government change the previous terms of the agreement, nor to agree to a debt restructuring. Varoufakis claims that, soon after the extension was granted at the end of February, the troika reneged on its alleged promise to consider a new fiscal and reform program for Greece, demanding of the Greek government that it implement the old one (which the Syriza government was elected to re-write). In March 2015, the \"Wall Street Journal\" pointed to several tensions between Greece and the other Eurozone countries, saying that some countries feel they have taken the \"tough medicine\" and the €195 billion owed is not insignificant. Further, they stated other governments have philosophical differences with Varoufakis and his Anglosphere and Keynesian leanings. Peter Ludlow said Varoufakis and his colleagues \"turned instinctively... to the U.K. and the U.S. even before they called on the European Left.\"\n\nIn a discussion with Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz on invitation of U.S. economic think tank Institute for New Economic Thinking, Varoufakis stated on 9 April 2015 that \"the Greek state does not have the capacity to develop public assets.\" Therefore, he announced that his government was \"restarting the privatization process.\" However, unlike the former governments they would insist on establishing public–private partnerships with the state retaining a minority stake to generate state revenues. They would also require a minimum investment on behalf of the bidder, and \"decent working conditions\" for workers. Varoufakis also said that although the government needed to avoid a primary budget deficit, the bailout program's target of a surplus of 4.5 percent of GDP was outlandish and should be reduced to no more than 1.5 percent.\n\nAfter many weeks of negotiations during which the Greek government, often against Varoufakis' advice, made many concessions to the troika of Greece's lenders, no agreement was in sight. One reason was that the members of the troika did not have a unified position. For example, the IMF insisted that the Greek government's demand for a public debt restructure should be granted, while powerful finance ministers in the Eurogroup (Germany's, for instance) refused this. Another alleged reason was that, with elections approaching in Spain, Ireland, and Portugal, various politicians within the EU did not want to see Greece's radical new government emerge as successful. Moreover, the differences in economic ideology will have contributed to the lack of progress towards a mutually-agreeable solution.\n\nOn 25 June 2015, Varoufakis was presented with an ultimatum in the Eurogroup. It included a fiscal proposal, a reform agenda, and a funding formula that Varoufakis, his government, and several other ministers of finance sitting in the Eurogroup, considered to be non-viable. The next day, the Greek Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, called for a referendum on the Eurogroup's proposal on 5 July.\n\nOn 5 July 2015, the bailout referendum took place. Varoufakis had campaigned vigorously in favour of the 'No' vote, against the united support for the 'Yes' of Greece's media. To make his position clear, he declared on television that he would resign as finance minister if Greeks voted 'Yes'. The outcome of the vote was a resounding 61.5 percent vote in favour of 'No'. Varoufakis went on television, soon after the result was announced, and declared that the government was determined to honour this new mandate for a different agreement with its creditors. However, a few hours later, Varoufakis resigned. In his resignation statement the following morning he claimed that \"other European participants\" had expressed a wish for his absence. Later he explained that he decided to resign during a meeting with the prime minister, on the night of the referendum, during which he discovered that the prime minister, instead of being energised by the \"No\" vote, declared to Varoufakis his decision to acquiesce to the troika's terms. Unwilling to sign such a \"surrender\" document, Varoufakis chose to resign.\n\nHis explanation, published later by Harry Lambert, \"New Statesman\", 13 July 2015, was this: \"I'm not going to betray my own view, that I honed back in 2010, that this country must stop extending and pretending, we must stop taking on new loans pretending that we've solved the problem, when we haven't; when we have made our debt even less sustainable on condition of further austerity that even further shrinks the economy; and shifts the burden further onto the have nots, creating a humanitarian crisis. It's something I'm not going to accept, I'm not going to be party to.\"\n\nIn a 16 July teleconference with private investors that was later made public, Varoufakis described a five-month clandestine project he ran as finance minister involving hacking into Greece's independent tax service's computers. The project's goal was to develop a parallel payment system that could be implemented as a contingency plan if the Greek system failed, and was dubbed \"Plan B\". In it, individuals' private identification numbers were accessed and copied to a computer controlled by a \"childhood friend\" of Varoufakis.\n\nOn Friday 14 August, the government (without Varoufakis) pushed successfully through parliament the third Greek bailout agreement. The bailout bill received 222 votes to 64 (as the conservative opposition voted in favour). Up to 40 Syriza members including Varoufakis voted against the bailout. Just prior to that vote, Varoufakis rose in parliament to offer the Prime Minister of Greece his resignation from his parliamentary seat, saying that this was the only way he knew how to combine his strong opposition to the new bailout with loyalty to the party and the prime minister. On 20 August, the prime minister himself resigned and called a snap election due to the loss of support from rebelling Syriza MPs. Varoufakis had already declared that he was not interested in standing again for Syriza. At the same time, Syriza announced that any MP who voted against the bailout package would not be standing for the party. Varoufakis did not go on to represent Popular Unity, unlike many of his ex-Syriza colleagues, as he considered the party too isolationist. Varoufakis choose not to stand in the election, saying he would focus on creating European network that would 'restor[e] democracy' in Europe. A month later, the national election was held and despite a low voter turnout, Tsipras and his Syriza Party won just over 35 percent of the vote. Combining with the Independent Greeks Party, a majority was achieved and Tsipras was returned to power.\n\nThe Adam Smith Institute, a leading free-market think tank in the United Kingdom, \"enthusiastically\" supported Varoufakis's debt-swap plan and asked the then British Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne to support it. Varoufakis had proposed debt swap measures, including bonds pegged to economic growth, which would replace the existing bonds of the European bailout programme.\n\nBloomberg said that Varoufakis was a \"brilliant economist\", but he had difficult interactions with other politicians and the media. Galbraith, referring to Varoufakis's expertise in game theory, has said that he knows as much about this subject \"as anyone on the planet\", and that \"[he] will be thinking more than a few steps ahead\" in any interactions with the troika. Two weeks later Varoufakis wrote an op-ed in the \"New York Times\" saying that using game theory would be \"pure folly\" and that he wanted to \"shun any temptation to treat this pivotal moment as an experiment in strategizing and, instead, to present honestly the facts concerning Greece's social economy...\"\n\nIn September 2015, Varoufakis appeared on the British topical debate show, \"Question Time\", and was praised for his performance by Mark Lawson in \"The Guardian\", who wrote: \"...several of the sentences he spoke in a second language were more impressive than most that his fellow panellists managed in their native tongue.\" He appeared on the show again in October 2016.\n\nVaroufakis attended an event in London hosted by \"The Guardian\" on 23 October 2015, where he spoke about the UK's upcoming European Union membership referendum. He said that the UK should remain in the EU, but also campaign to democratise it: \"My message is simple yet rich: those of us who disdain the democratic deficit in Brussels, those of us who detest the authoritarianism of a technocracy which is incompetent and contemptuous of democracy, those of us who are most critical of Europe have a moral duty to stay in Europe, fight for it, and democratise it.\" He would return to the UK, in May 2016, in the final stages of the campaigning to again urge a remain vote.\nOn 9 February 2016, Varoufakis launched the Democracy in Europe Movement 2025 (DiEM25) at the Volksbühne in Berlin.\n\nOn 2 April 2016, in reaction to tension between German Chancellor Angela Merkel and the IMF, Varoufakis said there was underway \"an attrition war between a reasonably numerate villain (the IMF) and a chronic procrastinator (Berlin)\" as to Greek debt relief.\n\nIn April 2016, Varoufakis publicly supported the idea of a basic income.\n\nIn March 2018 Varoufakis announced the launch of his own political party MeRA 25, with a stated aim of freeing Greece from \"debt bondage\". He stated that he hoped the party would be based on an alliance of \"people of the left and liberalism, greens and feminists\". The party, whose name stands for \"European Realistic Disobedience Front\", is affiliated to DiEM 25.\n\nIn September 2018, Varoufakis penned an op-ed piece in the Guardian about the need for an international progressive movement, with a similar piece by fellow progressive U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders. At the end of October, Varoufakis announced, in Rome, the official launch of Progressives International - described as a \"common blueprint for an International New Deal, a progressive New Bretton Woods\" - on November 30th in Sanders' home state of Vermont. Earlier in the year, in an on-stage book festival interview in Edinburgh, Varoufakis pressed Jeremy Corbyn, head of the British Labor Party and a likely ally, to \"be a bit more ambitious\" and become involved in the international progressive movement.\n\nOn the 25th of November 2018 Varoufakis was selected to head the list of Democracy in Europe (the German section of DiEM25) for the 2019 European elections. \n\nVaroufakis is married to installation artist Danae Stratou and has a daughter who is growing up in Sydney, from his first marriage to academic Margarite Anagnostopoulou (Poulos).\n\nVaroufakis is the author of several books on the European debt crisis, the financial imbalance in the world and game theory. He is also a recognised speaker and often appears as an analyst for national news media.\nA film is planned based on his book \"Adults in the Room\" directed by Costa-Gavras.\n\nIn November 2010, he and Stuart Holland, a former British Labour Party MP and economics professor at the University of Coimbra (Portugal), published \"A Modest Proposal,\" a set of economic policies aimed at overcoming the euro crisis.\n\nIn 2013, Version 4.0 of \"A Modest Proposal\" appeared with the American economist James K. Galbraith as a third co-author. This version was published in late 2013 in French with a supporting foreword by Michel Rocard, former Prime Minister of France. , Truman Factor features select articles by Varoufakis in English and in Spanish.\n\nFirst published in 2011, \"The Global Minotaur\" constructs a historical narrative and metaphor which Varoufakis uses to describe the world economy from the mid-1970s to the 2008 crash and beyond. He argues that the global economy since the 1970s can be viewed as being built around the financing of the twin deficits of the United States – its trade deficit and government deficit. Varoufakis argues that the United States powered the global economy by consuming the exports of the rest of the world, and then the surpluses flowed back to the United States by going to institutions on Wall Street or being used to buy U.S Treasury debt. He suggests the recycling back to the U.S happened naturally due to the status of the dollar as the global reserve currency, and because of the profitability of U.S corporations and returns on Wall Street. However, when the U.S economy and banking system faltered in 2008, the United States' ability to consume vast quantities of imports decreased, and investing in Wall Street became a much less inviting prospect, so the system seized up. This explains why the 2008 recession was felt so heavily around the world. The metaphor of the Minotaur is used as Varoufakis characterizes the flows back to the U.S as a \"tribute\" to a great power.\n\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, Varoufakis travelled extensively with his partner, artist Danae Stratou, along seven dividing lines around the world (in Palestine, Ethiopia-Eritrea, Kosovo, Belfast, Cyprus, Kashmir and the US–Mexico border). Stratou produced the installation \"CUT: 7 dividing lines,\" while Varoufakis wrote texts that then became a political-economic account of these divisions, entitled \"The Globalizing Wall.\" In 2010 Stratou and Varoufakis founded the project \"Vital Space.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46385894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46385894", "title": "Yellow Jack (play)", "text": "Yellow Jack (play)\n\nYellow Jack is a 1934 docudrama play produced by Guthrie McClintic and a 1938 Hollywood movie by the same name. Both were co-written by Sidney Howard and Paul de Kruif (the former a Pulitzer- and Oscar-winning playwright and screenwriter; the latter a well-known microbiologist and author). The play is the work of Sidney Howard and is based on a chapter in Paul de Kruif’s 1927 book \"Microbe Hunters\".\n\nJames Stewart in his first dramatic role stars as Pvt. John O'Hara, a role reprised by Robert Montgomery in the 1938 film. Stewart later stated this role convinced him to continue his acting career during a time he recalled that \"From 1932 through 1934...I'd only worked three months. Every play I got into folded.\" The experience led him to stay with acting and he first entered movies later that year in \"The Murder Man\". Caricaturist Al Hirschfeld while covering the play for the \"New York Herald Tribune\" drew his first of 13 drawings (and only one from a play) he made over the course of Stewart's career.\n\nThe play opened at the opulent Martin Beck Theatre on March 6, 1934, and ran for 79 performances. The Martin Beck was renamed in 2003 for Al Hirschfeld, who drew the caricature for \"Yellow Jack\". Prior to its debut, Herman Bernstein's \"Jewish Daily Bulletin\" covered the play, thereby giving it approval for not containing anti-semitic elements.\n\nDue to the high cost of repertory production, in 1947 New York's American Repertory Theatre revived \"Yellow Jack\" for a four-week run at the International Theatre.\n\nAfter the Spanish–American War, in which more U. S. soldiers were killed by yellow fever (known as Yellow Jack) than in battle, the War Department sent a medical commission to Cuba to find, if possible, the cause and cure of this deadly tropical disease. The commission was headed by Dr. Walter Reed. With him was Dr. James Carroll. In Cuba they found Dr. Jesse Lazear, European-trained microbiologist, and Cuban Dr. Aristides Agramonte.\n\nLimited in its experiments by the fact that animals are immune to Yellow Jack and embroiled in government interference, Reed decides that the only way to test the theory is to expose his own men to the disease. Needing human volunteers, Private John O'Hara is willing to allow Dr, Reed to experiment on him.\n\nDebuting on 6 Mar, 1934, the play ran through May for a modest 79 performances. It generally received positive reviews, but the subject had limited popular appeal.\n\n\n\n"}
