{"id": "1251240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251240", "title": "Aesthetics of music", "text": "Aesthetics of music\n\nIn the pre-modern tradition, the aesthetics of music or musical aesthetics explored the mathematical and cosmological dimensions of rhythmic and harmonic organization. In the eighteenth century, focus shifted to the experience of hearing music, and thus to questions about its beauty and human enjoyment (\"plaisir\" and \"jouissance\") of music. The origin of this philosophic shift is sometimes attributed to Baumgarten in the 18th century, followed by Kant. Through their writing, the ancient term \"aesthetics\", meaning sensory perception, received its present-day connotation. In recent decades philosophers have tended to emphasize issues besides beauty and enjoyment. For example, music's capacity to express emotion has been a central issue.\nAesthetics is a sub-discipline of philosophy. In the 20th century, important contributions to the aesthetics of music were made by Peter Kivy, Jerrold Levinson, Roger Scruton, and Stephen Davies. However, many musicians, music critics, and other non-philosophers have contributed to the aesthetics of music. In the 19th century, a significant debate arose between Eduard Hanslick, a music critic and musicologist, and composer Richard Wagner regarding whether instrumental music could communicate emotions to the listener. Wagner and his disciples argued that instrumental music could communicate emotions and images; composers who held this belief wrote instrumental tone poems, which attempted to tell a story or depict a landscape using instrumental music. Hanslick and his partisans asserted that instrumental music is simply patterns of sound that do not communicate any emotions or images. Harry Partch and some other musicologists, such as Kyle Gann, have studied and tried to popularize microtonal music and the usage of alternate musical scales. Many modern composers like La Monte Young, Rhys Chatham and Glenn Branca paid much attention to a system of tuning called just intonation.\n\nSince ancient times, it has been thought that music has the ability to affect our emotions, intellect, and psychology; it can assuage our loneliness or incite our passions. The Ancient Greek philosopher Plato suggests in \"The Republic\" that music has a direct effect on the soul. Therefore, he proposes that in the ideal regime, music would be closely regulated by the state (Book VII).\n\nThere has been a strong tendency in the aesthetics of music to emphasize the paramount importance of compositional structure; however, other issues concerning the aesthetics of music include lyricism, harmony, hypnotism, emotiveness, temporal dynamics, resonance, playfulness, and color (see also musical development).\n\nIn the 18th century, music was considered so far outside the realm of aesthetic theory (then conceived of in visual terms) that music was barely mentioned in William Hogarth's treatise \"The Analysis of Beauty\". He considered dance beautiful (closing the treatise with a discussion of the minuet), but treated music important only insofar as it could provide the proper accompaniment for the dancers.\n\nHowever, by the end of the century, people began to distinguish the topic of music and its own beauty from music as part of a mixed media, as in opera and dance. Immanuel Kant, whose \"Critique of Judgment\" is generally considered the most important and influential work on aesthetics in the 18th century, argued that instrumental music is beautiful but ultimately trivial. Compared to the other fine arts, it does not engage the understanding sufficiently, and it lacks moral purpose. To display the combination of genius and taste that combines ideas and beauty, Kant thought that music must be combined with words, as in song and opera.\n\nIn the 19th century, the era of romanticism in music, some composers and critics argued that music should and could express ideas, images, emotions, or even a whole literary plot. Challenging Kant's reservations about instrumental music, in 1813 E. T. A. Hoffman argued that music was fundamentally the art of instrumental composition. Five years later, Arthur Schopenhauer's \"The World as Will and Representation\" argued that instrumental music is the greatest art, because it is uniquely capable of representing the metaphysical organization of reality.\n\nAlthough the Romantic movement accepted the thesis that instrumental music has representational capacities, most did not support Schopenhauer's linking of music and metaphysics. The mainstream consensus endorsed music's capacity to represent particular emotions and situations. In 1832, composer Robert Schumann stated that his piano work Papillons was \"intended as a musical representation\" of the final scene of a novel by Jean Paul, \"Flegeljahre\". The thesis that the value of music is related to its representational function was vigorously countered by the formalism of Eduard Hanslick, setting off the \"War of the Romantics.\"\n\nThis fight divided the aesthetics into two competing groups: On one side are formalists (e.g., Hanslick), who emphasize that the rewards of music are found in appreciation of musical form or design, while on the other side are the anti-formalists, such as Richard Wagner, who regarded musical form as a means to other artistic ends.\n\nA group of modernist writers in the early 20th century (including the poet Ezra Pound) believed that music was essentially pure because it didn't represent anything, or make reference to anything beyond itself. In a sense, they wanted to bring poetry closer to Hanslick's ideas about the autonomous, self-sufficient character of music. (Bucknell 2002) Dissenters from this view notably included Albert Schweitzer, who argued against the alleged 'purity' of music in a classic work on Bach. Far from being a new debate, this disagreement between modernists and their critics was a direct continuation of the 19th-century debate about the autonomy of music.\n\nAmong 20th-century composers, Igor Stravinsky is the most prominent composer to defend the modernist idea of musical autonomy. When a composer creates music, Stravinsky claims, the only relevant thing \"is his apprehension of the contour of the form, for the form is everything. He can say nothing whatever about meanings\" (Stravinsky 1962, p. 115). Although listeners often look for meanings in music, Stravinsky warned that these are distractions from the musical experience.\n\nThe most distinctive development in the aesthetics of music in the 20th century was that attention was directed at the distinction between 'higher' and 'lower' music, now understood to align with the distinction between art music and popular music, respectively. Theodor Adorno suggested that culture industries churn out a debased mass of unsophisticated, sentimental products that have replaced more 'difficult' and critical art forms that might lead people to actually question social life. False needs are cultivated in people by the culture industries. These needs can be both created and satisfied by the capitalist system, and can replace people's 'true' needs: freedom, full expression of human potential and creativity, and genuine creative happiness. Thus, those trapped in the false notions of beauty according to a capitalist mode of thinking can only hear beauty in dishonest terms (citation necessary). \n\nBeginning with Peter Kivy's work in the 1970s, analytic philosophy has contributed extensively to the aesthetics of music. Analytic philosophy pays very little attention to the topic of musical beauty. Instead, Kivy inspired extensive debate about the nature of emotional expressiveness in music. He also contributed to the debate over the nature of authentic performances of older music arguing that much of the debate was incoherent because it failed to distinguish among four distinct standards of authentic performance of music (1995).\n\nSimon Frith (2004, p. 17-9) argues that, \"'bad music' is a necessary concept for musical pleasure, for musical aesthetics.\" He distinguishes two common kinds of bad music: the Worst Records Ever Made type, which include \"Tracks which are clearly incompetent musically; made by singers who can't sing, players who can't play, producers who can't produce,\" and \"Tracks involving genre confusion. The most common examples are actors or TV stars recording in the latest style.\" Another type of \"bad music\" is \"rock critical lists,\" such as \"Tracks that feature sound gimmicks that have outlived their charm or novelty\" and \"Tracks that depend on false sentiment [...], that feature an excess of feeling molded into a radio-friendly pop song.\"\n\nFrith gives three common qualities attributed to bad music: inauthentic, [in] bad taste (see also: kitsch), and stupid. He argues that \"The marking off of some tracks and genres and artists as 'bad' is a necessary part of popular music pleasure; it is a way we establish our place in various music worlds. And 'bad' is a key word here because it suggests that aesthetic and ethical judgements are tied together here: not to like a record is not just a matter of taste; it is also a matter of argument, and argument that matters\" (p. 28). Frith's analysis of popular music is based in sociology.\n\nTheodor Adorno was a prominent philosopher who wrote on the aesthetics of popular music. A Marxist, Adorno was extremely hostile to popular music. His theory was largely formulated in response to the growing popularity of American music in Europe between World War I and World War II. As a result, Adorno often uses \"jazz\" as his example of what he believed was wrong with popular music; however, for Adorno this term included everyone from Louis Armstrong to Bing Crosby. He attacked popular music claiming that it is simplistic and repetitive, and encourages a fascist mindset (1973, p. 126).\n\nHowever good or bad it sounds to its audience, he believed that music is genuinely good only if it challenges society through its role as an inaccessible Other. This function is advanced by musical structure, rather than lyrics. In his opinion, although many popular musicians seem to superficially oppose the political status quo, the use of familiar song forms and the artist's involvement in capitalism results in music that ultimately encourages the audience to accept things as they are - only radically experimental music can encourage audiences to become critical of prevailing society. However, the mass media cannot handle the confrontational nature of good music, and offers instead a steady diet of recycled, simplified and politically ineffective music.\n\nBesides Adorno, Theodore Gracyk provides the most extensive philosophical analysis of popular music. He argues that conceptual categories and distinctions developed in response to art music are systematically misleading when applied to popular music (1996). At the same time, the social and political dimensions of popular music do not deprive it of aesthetic value (2007).\n\nIn 2007 musicologist and journalist Craig Schuftan published \"The Culture Club\", a book drawing links between modernism art movements and popular music of today and that of past decades and even centuries. His story involves drawing lines between art, or high culture, and pop, or low culture. A more scholarly study of the same topic, \"Between Montmartre and the Mudd Club: Popular Music and the Avant-Garde\", was published five years earlier by philosopher Bernard Gendron.\n\nIn Germany, the musicologist Ralf von Appen (2007) has published a book on the aesthetics of popular music that focuses on everyday judgments of popular records. He analyzes the structures and aesthetic categories behind judgments found on amazon.com concerning records by musicians such as Bob Dylan, Eminem, Queens of the Stone Age etc. In a second step, von Appen interprets these findings on the basis of current theoretical positions in the field of philosophical aesthetics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23201911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23201911", "title": "Anioł Dowgird", "text": "Anioł Dowgird\n\nAnioł Dowgird (1776–1835) was a philosopher of Polish Enlightenment.\n\nDowgird studied in Jesuit and Piarist schools, then joined the Piarist Order and took holy orders. Subsequently, he taught at Piarist schools and for a time was a professor of logic and ethics at Wilno University.\n\nDowgird derived his views from John Locke's empiricism, the Scottish School of Common Sense, and Immanuel Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\". But, unlike Kant, he ascribed to time and space a real existence independent of man.\n\n\nHe also wrote several sermons and left a manuscript treatise on Kant's philosophy.\n\n"}
{"id": "43441237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43441237", "title": "Anti-racism", "text": "Anti-racism\n\nAnti-racism includes beliefs, actions, movements, and policies adopted or developed to oppose racism.\n\nAccording to the Anti-racism Digital Library \"Anti-racism can be defined as some form of focused and sustained action, which includes inter-cultural, inter-faith, multi-lingual and inter-abled (i.e. differently abled) communities with the intent to change a system or an institutional policy, practice, or procedure which has racist effects.\"\n\nThe European colonization of the Americas by Christopher Columbus did not occur until 1492. However, two Papal bulls announced several decades before that event were designed to help ward off increasing Muslim invasions into Europe, which they believed would have an effect on the New World.\n\nWhen Islam presented a serious military threat to Italy and Central Europe during the mid-15th century around the time of the fall of Constantinople in 1453, Pope Nicholas V tried to unite Christendom against them but failed. He then granted Portugal the right to subdue and even enslave Muslims whether white or any other race, pagans and other non-Christians in the papal bull \"Dum Diversas\" (1452). While this bull preceded the Atlantic slave trade by several decades, slavery and the slave trade were part of African societies and tribes which supplied the Arab world with slaves long before the arrival of the Europeans.\n\nIncreasingly, the Italian merchants from the wealthiest states in Italy, especially Genoa and Venice joined in the lucrative trade and some members sported exotic lackeys and few domestic or workshop slaves whereas before slavery was forbidden in Christendom and only formerly in Muslim Spain and Sicily and their buffer border marches were seen and legally allowed. Racial views of Superiority started developing and became more acute about these slaves, social views imported from the Court of Granada where they were highly stratified and classified.\n\nThe following year saw the Fall of Constantinople to Muslim conquerors of the ever-growing Turkish Ottoman Empire which left the pope as the undoubted contested leader of Christendom when the Eastern Orthodox Church leadership became under submission. Several decades later, European explorers and missionaries spread Christianity to the Americas, Asia, Africa and Oceania. Pope Alexander VI had awarded colonial rights over most of the newly discovered lands by the Iberian Kingdoms of Castile and Portugal. Under their \"patronato\" system, however, Royal authorities, not the Vatican, controlled as in Europe all clerical appointments in the new colonies. Thus, the 1455 Papal bull \"Romanus Pontifex\" granted the Portuguese all lands behind Cape Bojador \"allowing to reduce pagans and other enemies of Christ to perpetual servitude.\" Later, the 1481 Papal bull \"Aeterni regis\" granted all lands south of the Canary Islands to the Portuguese Empire, while in May 1493, the Aragonese-born Pope Alexander VIdecreed in the Bull \"Inter caetera\" that all lands west of a meridian only 100 leagues west of the Cape Verde Islands should belong to the Spanish Empire while new lands discovered east of that line would belong to Portugal. These arrangements were later confirmed in the 1494 Treaty of Tordesillas.\n\nThe European origins of racism spread to the Americas alongside the Europeans, but establishment views were questioned when applied to indigenous peoples. After the discovery of the New World many of the clergy sent to the New World, educated in the new Humane values of the Renaissance blooming but still new in Europe and not ratified by the Vatican, began to criticize Spain and their own Church's treatment and views of indigenous peoples and slaves.\n\nIn December 1511, Antonio de Montesinos, a Dominican friar, was the first man to openly rebuke the Spanish authorities and administrators of Hispaniola for their \"cruelty and tyranny\" in dealing with the American natives and those forced to labor as slaves. King Ferdinand enacted the \"Laws of Burgos\" and \"Valladolid\" in response. However enforcement was lax, and the New Laws of 1542 have to be made to take a stronger line. Because some people like Fray Bartolomé de las Casas questioned not only the Crown but the Papacy at the Valladolid Controversy whether the Indians were truly men who deserved baptism, Pope Paul III in the papal bull \"Veritas Ipsa\" or \"Sublimis Deus\" (1537) confirmed that the Indians and other races were deserving men, \"so long as they became baptized\". Afterward, their Christian conversion effort gained momentum along social rights, while leaving the same status recognition unanswered for Africans of Black Race, and legal social racism prevailed towards the Indians or Asians. However, by then the last schism of the Reformation had taken place in Europe in those few decades along political lines, and the different views on the Value of human lives of different races were not corrected in the lands of Northern Europe, which would join the Colonial race at the end of the century and over the next, as the Portuguese and Spanish Empires waned. It would take another century, with the influence of the French Empire at its height, and its consequent Enlightenment developed at the highest circles of its Court, to return these previously inconclusive issues to the forefront of the political discourse championed by many intellectual men since Rousseau. These issues gradually permeated to the lower social levels, where they were a reality lived by men and women of different races from the European racial majority.\n\nPrior to the American Revolution, a small group of Quakers including John Woolman and Anthony Benezet successfully persuaded their fellow members of the Religious Society of Friends to free their slaves, divest from the slave trade, and create unified Quaker policies against slavery. This afforded their tiny religious denomination some moral authority to help begin the Abolitionist movement on both sides of the Atlantic. Woolman died of smallpox in England in 1775, shortly after crossing the Atlantic to bring his anti-slavery message to the Quakers of the British Isles.\n\nDuring and after the American Revolution, Quaker ministrations and preachings against slavery began to spread beyond their movement. In 1783, 300 Quakers, chiefly from the London area, presented the British Parliament with their signatures on the first petition against the slave trade. In 1785, Englishman Thomas Clarkson, enrolled at Cambridge, and in the course of writing an essay in Latin (\"Anne liceat invitos in servitutem dare\" (Is it lawful to enslave the unconsenting?), read the works of Benezet, and began a lifelong effort to outlaw the slave trade in England. In 1787, sympathizers formed the Committee for the Abolition of the Slave Trade, a small non-denominational group that could lobby more successfully by incorporating Anglicans, who, unlike the Quakers, could lawfully sit in Parliament. The twelve founding members included nine Quakers, and three pioneering Anglicans: Granville Sharp, Thomas Clarkson, and William Wilberforce – all evangelical Christians.\n\nLater successes in opposing racism were won by the abolitionist movement, both in England and the United States. Though many Abolitionists did not regard blacks or mulattos as equal to whites, they did in general believe in freedom and often even equality of treatment for all people. A few, like John Brown, went further. Brown was willing to die on behalf of, as he said, \"millions in this slave country whose rights are disregarded by wicked, cruel, and unjust enactments ...\" Many black Abolitionists, such as Frederick Douglass, explicitly argued for the humanity of blacks and mulattoes, and for the equality of all people.\n\nPrior to and during the American Civil War, racial egalitarianism in the North became much stronger and more generally disseminated. The success of black troops in the Union Army had a dramatic impact on Northern sentiment. The Emancipation Proclamation was a notable example of this shift in political attitudes, although it notably did not completely extinguish legal slavery in several states. After the war, the Reconstruction government passed the Fourteenth Amendment and Fifteenth Amendments to the Constitution to guarantee the rights of blacks and mulattoes. Many ex-slaves had access to education for the first time. Blacks and mulattoes were also allowed to vote, which meant that African-Americans were elected to Congress in numbers not equaled until the Voting Rights Act and the Warren Court helped re-enfranchise black Americans.\n\nDue to resistance in the South, however, and a general collapse of idealism in the North, Reconstruction ended, and gave way to the nadir of American race relations. The period from about 1890 to 1920 saw the re-establishment of Jim Crow laws. President Woodrow Wilson, who regarded Reconstruction as a disaster, segregated the federal government. The Ku Klux Klan grew to its greatest peak of popularity and strength. D. W. Griffith's \"The Birth of a Nation\" was a movie sensation.\n\nIn 1911 the First Universal Races Congress met in London, at which distinguished speakers from many countries for four days discussed race problems and ways to improve interracial relations.\n\nFriedrich Tiedemann was one of the first people scientifically to contest racism. In 1836, using craniometric and brain measurements (taken by him from Europeans and black people from different parts of the world), he refuted the belief of many contemporary naturalists and anatomists that black people have smaller brains and are thus intellectually inferior to white people, saying it was scientifically unfounded and based merely on the prejudiced opinions of travelers and explorers. The evolutionary biologist Charles Darwin wrote in 1871 that ‘[i]t may be doubted whether any character can be named which is distinctive of a race and is constant’ and that ‘[a]lthough the existing races of man differ in many respects, as in colour, hair, shape of skull, proportions of the body, &c., yet if their whole structure be taken into consideration they are found to resemble each other closely in a multitude of points.’\n\nAt the start of the 20th century, the work of anthropologists trying to end the paradigms of cultural evolutionism and social Darwinism within social sciences—anthropologists like Franz Boas, Marcel Mauss, Bronisław Malinowski, Pierre Clastres and Claude Lévi-Strauss—began the initiative to the end of racism in human sciences and establish cultural relativism as the new dominant paradigm.\n\nJapan first proposed articles dedicated to the elimination of racial discrimination to be added to the rules of the League of Nations. This was the first proposal concerning the international elimination of racial discrimination in the world.\n\nAlthough the proposal received a majority (11 out of 16) of votes, the chairman, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson, overturned it saying that important issues should be unanimously approved. Billy Hughes and Joseph Cook vigorously opposed it as it undermined the White Australia policy.\n\nOpposition to racism revived in the 1920s and 1930s. At that time, anthropologists such as Franz Boas, Ruth Benedict, Margaret Mead, and Ashley Montagu argued for the equality of humans across races and cultures. Eleanor Roosevelt was a very visible advocate for minority rights during this period. Anti-capitalist organizations like the Industrial Workers of the World, which gained popularity during 1905–1926, were explicitly egalitarian.\n\nBeginning with the Harlem Renaissance and continuing into the 1960s, many African-American writers argued forcefully against racism.\n\nDuring the Civil Rights Movement, Jim Crow laws were repealed in the South and blacks finally re-won the right to vote in Southern states. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was an influential force, and his \"I Have a Dream\" speech is an exemplary condensation of his egalitarian ideology.\n\nEgalitarianism has been a catalyst for feminism, anti-war, and anti-imperialist movements. Henry David Thoreau's opposition to the Mexican–American War, for example, was based in part on his fear that the U.S. was using the war as an excuse to expand American slavery into new territories. Thoreau's response was chronicled in his famous essay \"Civil Disobedience\", which in turn helped ignite Gandhi's successful campaign against the British in India. Gandhi's example in turn inspired the American civil rights movement.\n\nAs James Loewen notes in \"Lies My Teacher Told Me\": \"Throughout the world, from Africa to Northern Ireland, movements of oppressed people continue to use tactics and words borrowed from our abolitionist and civil rights movements.\" In East Germany, revolutionary Iran, Tiananmen Square, and South Africa, images, words, and tactics developed by human rights supporters have been used regularly and repeatedly.\n\nMany of these uses have been controversial. In Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe has used anti-racist rhetoric to promote a land distribution scheme whereby privately held land is confiscated from white Rhodesians and distributed to blacks, which has resulted in widespread starvation (see Land reform in Zimbabwe).\n\nThe phrase \"Anti-racist is a code word for anti-white\", coined by high-profile white nationalist Robert Whitaker, is commonly associated with the topic of white genocide, a white nationalist conspiracy theory that mass immigration, integration, miscegenation, low fertility rates and abortion are being promoted in predominantly white countries to deliberately turn them minority-white and hence cause white people to become extinct through forced assimilation. The phrase has been spotted on billboards near Birmingham, Alabama and in Harrison, Arkansas.\n\n\nInternational\n\nEurope\n\nNorth America\n\nOther\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52791986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52791986", "title": "Bacterial phylodynamics", "text": "Bacterial phylodynamics\n\nBacterial phylodynamics is the study of immunology, epidemiology, and phylogenetics of bacterial pathogens to better understand the evolutionary role of these pathogens. Phylodynamic analysis includes analyzing genetic diversity, natural selection, and population dynamics of infectious disease pathogen phylogenies during pandemics and studying intra-host evolution of viruses. Phylodynamics combines the study of phylogenetic analysis, ecological, and evolutionary processes to better understand of the mechanisms that drive spatiotemportal incidence and phylogenetic patterns of bacterial pathogens. Bacterial phylodynamics uses genome-wide single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in order to better understand the evolutionary mechanism of bacterial pathogens. Many phylodynamic studies have been performed on viruses, specifically RNA viruses (see Viral phylodynamics) which have high mutation rates. The field of bacterial phylodynamics has increased substantially due to the advancement of next-generation sequencing and the amount of data available.\n\nStudies can be designed to observe intra-host or inter-host interactions. Bacterial phylodynamic studies usually focus on inter-host interactions with samples from many different hosts in a specific geographical location or several different geographical locations. The most important part of a study design is how to organize the sampling strategy. For example, the number of sampled time points, the sampling interval, and the number of sequences per time point are crucial to phylodynamic analysis. Sampling bias causes problems when looking at a diverse taxological samples. For example, sampling from a limited geographical location may impact effective population size.\n\nSequencing of the genome or genomic regions and what sequencing technique to use is an important experimental setting to phylodynamic analysis. Whole genome sequencing is often performed on bacterial genomes, although depending on the design of the study, many different methods can be utilized for phylodynamic analysis. Bacterial genomes are much larger and have a slower evolutionary rate then RNA viruses, limiting studies on the bacterial phylodynamics. The advancement of sequencing technology has made bacterial phylodynamics possible but proper preparation of the whole bacterial genomes is mandatory.\n\nWhen a new dataset with samples for phylodynamic analysis are obtained, the sequences in the new data set are aligned. A BLAST search is frequently executed to find similar strains of the pathogen of interest. Sequences collected from BLAST for an alignment will need the proper information to be added to a data set, such as sample collection date and geographical location of the sample. Multiple sequence alignment algorithms (e.g., MUSCLE, MAFFT, and CLUSAL W) will align the data set with all selected sequences. After the running a multiple sequence alignment algorithm, manual editing the alignment is highly recommended. Multiple sequence alignment algorithms can leave a large amount of indels in the sequence alignment when the indels do not exist. Manually editing the indels in the data set will allow a more accurate phylogenetic tree.\n\nIn order to have an accurate phylodynamic analysis, quality control methods must be performed. This includes checking the samples in the data set for possible contamination, measuring phylogenetic signal of the sequences, and checking the sequences for possible signs of recombinant strains. Contamination of samples in the data set can be excluded with by various laboratory methods and by proper DNA/RNA extraction methods. There are several way to check for phylogenetic signal in an alignment, such as likelihood mapping, transition/transversions versus divergence plots, and the Xia test for saturation. If phylogenetic signal of an alignment is too low then a longer alignment or an alignment of another gene in the organism may be necessary to perform phylogenetic analysis. Typically substitution saturation is only in issue in data sets with viral sequences. Most algorithms used for phylogenetic analysis do not take into recombination into account, which can alter the molecular clock and coalescent estimates of a multiple sequence alignment. Strains that show signs of recombination should either be excluded from the data set or analyzed on their own.\n\nThe best fitting nucleotide or amino acid substitution model for a multiple sequence alignment is the first step in phylodynamic analysis. This can be accomplished with several different algorithms (e.g., IQTREE, MEGA).\n\nThere are several different methods to infer phylogenies. These include methods include tree building algorithms such as UPGMA, neighbor joining, maximum parsimony, maximum likelihood, and Bayesian analysis.\n\nTesting the reliability of the tree after inferring its phylogeny, is a crucial step in the phylodynamic pipeline. Methods to test the reliability of a tree include bootstrapping, maximum likelihood estimation, and posterior probabilities in Bayesian analysis.\n\nSeveral methods are used to assess phylodynamic reliability of a data set. These methods include estimating the data set's molecular clock, demographic history, population structure, gene flow, and selection analysis. Phylodynamic results of a data set can also influence better study designs in future experiments.\n\nCholera is a diarrheal disease that is caused by the bacterium \"Vibrio cholerae.\" \"V. cholerae\" has been a popular bacterium for phylodynamic analysis after the 2010 cholera outbreak in Haiti. The cholera outbreak happened right after the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, which caused critical infrastructure damage, leading to the conclusion that the outbreak was most likely due to the \"V. cholerae\" bacterium being introduced naturally to the waters in Haiti from the earthquake. Soon after the earthquake, the UN sent MINUSTAH troops from Nepal to Haiti. Rumors started circulating about terrible conditions of the MINUSTAH camp, as well as people claiming that the MINUSTAH troops were deposing of their waste in the Artibonite River, which is the major water source in the surrounding area. Soon after the MINUSTAH troops arrival, the first cholera case was reported near the location of the MINUSTAH camp. Phylodynamic analysis was used to look into the source of the Haiti cholera outbreak. Whole genome sequencing of \"V. cholerae\" revealed that there was one single point source of the cholera outbreak in Haiti and it was similar to O1 strains circulating in South Asia. Before the MINUSTAH troops from Nepal were sent to Haiti, a cholera outbreak had just occurred in Nepal. In the original research to trace the origin of the outbreak, the Nepal strains were not available. Phylodynamic analyses were performed on the Haitian strain and the Nepalese strain when it became available and affirmed that the Haitian cholera strain was the most similar to the Nepalese cholera strain. This outbreak strain of cholera in Haiti showed signs of an altered or hybrid strain of \"V. cholerae\" associated with high virulence. Typically high quality single-nucleotide polymorphisms (hqSNP) from whole genome \"V. cholerae\" sequences are used for phylodynamic analysis. Using phylodynamic analysis to study cholera helps prediction and understanding of \"V. cholerae\" evolution during bacterial epidemics.\n\n"}
{"id": "14619041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14619041", "title": "Camiola", "text": "Camiola\n\nCamiola Turinga was from Messina and was known as a virtuous woman. She was the daughter of Lawrence of Thuringia. She lived in the beginning of the fourteenth century, during the time of the reign of Frederick III of Sicily. When her husband and parents died she inherited much wealth and was known for handling this large fortune in a moral fashion.\n\nBoccaccio, as a medieval historian and early Renaissance archaeologist, describes the events that happened that lead up to her becoming a widow when she was still a young lady. He says in his \"De mulieribus claris\" in the next to the last biography that when king Frederick III of Sicily died, his eldest son Peter took over. Right after that time Godfrey of Squillace, commander for king Robert of Sicily, attacked the town of Lipari. The townspeople were overwhelmed and practically wiped out. Peter then gathered together an army of mercenaries and volunteer auxiliary troops. He put them into the command of a Count John of Chiaamonte. John's mission was to bring much needed supplies for the starving people of Lipari.\n\nWhen Godfrey learned that John's army outnumbered his own, he abandoned his camp and left all his supplies there. John then came upon these supplies and took back to the people of Lipari. Then with overconfidence John challenged Godfrey to battle. Godfrey accepted the challenge. He prepared and reinforced his troops overnight and was fully prepared in the morning. John, being overconfident, did not expect Godfrey to attack, assuming instead that he Godfrey would retreat.\n\nGodfrey's men attacked the Sicilians with much vigor. The Sicilians under John's command were stunned with the onslaught. Hand-to-hand combat took place on the Sicilian ships. The Sicilians ultimately lost confidence, since they were not fully prepared for such an attack. They then took whatever ships were still seaworthy and hightailed it. Many of the Sicilian ships were sunk and victory was within grasp for Godfrey. Even though some of John's ships were able to get away, John himself along with some princes and missionaries, were captured. The town of Lipari surrendered and sued for peace.\n\nThe prisoners were then taken to Naples and jailed. Among the prisoners was Roland of Sicily, an illegitimate son of Frederick III of Sicily. Ransom was paid for all the prisoners, and they were all released, except for one - Roland. King Peter hated his brother and all the others under John's command because of their incompetence and how they handled the attack of Godfrey.\n\nNow enters Camiola. She remembers him when they both were children. Rolan was in prison with no hope of getting out. She saw that Peter and his other brothers were willing to let him rot in jail and wished to do something about this. It turned out that there was no legal way of getting him out - except marrying him! She sent secretly to Roland a proposition on this matter. Roland jumped at the opportunity: anything to be able to get out of jail. In fact, that is all he really wanted and would say and promise anything just to get out. Camiola then legally drew up all the necessary documents and arranged for his release. She had to pay two thousand ounces of silver for his release, which was half her wealth. She handed over the agreed amount to gain his release.\n\nRoland was returned to Messina a free man. Immediately he acted like there was no arrangement of a marriage and had no appreciation for his release. Camiola was totally taken off guard because of his attitude and confronted him. She first diplomatically tried an arrangement for the marriage to take place, however Roland would have nothing to do with it. Ultimately he was brought up in front of an ecclesiastical judge. She proved to the judge that she had a \nlegal and binding signed contract for marriage in return for Roland's release out of prison. She showed to the judge that Roland agreed to this and in return was to marry her for his release out of an otherwise hopeless situation of being imprisoned for the rest of his life.\n\nUpon the judge making the decision that Rolan was wrong in not fulfilling his obligation, he admitted to his mistake however still did not want to marry her. His brothers and friends then got involved and convinced Roland that it was the right thing to do. Roland then decided he would marry her and\ncame to her with this proposal with his friends. She however at this point gave a lengthy speech. From that time forward, she could not be swayed by either the plebs or reprimands from her high moral standards which she had already shown. Roland, however, was scorned by everyone from then on, including his immediate family.\n\n\nThe English playwright Philip Massinger based one of his best characters of \"The Maid of Honour\" on Boccaccio's heroine Camiola.\n"}
{"id": "7072431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7072431", "title": "Charles Malik", "text": "Charles Malik\n\nCharles Habib Malik (sometimes spelled \"Charles Habib Malek\"; 1906 - 28 December 1987; ) was a Lebanese academic, diplomat, and philosopher. He served as the Lebanese representative to the United Nations, the President of the Commission on Human Rights and the United Nations General Assembly, a member of the Lebanese Cabinet, a national minister of Education and the Arts, and of Foreign Affairs and Emigration, and theologian. He was responsible for the drafting and adoption of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights.\n\nBorn in Btourram, Lebanon, Malik was the son of Dr. Habib Malik and Zarifa Karam. Malik was the great-nephew of the renowned author Farah Antun. Malik was educated at the American Mission School for Boys, now Tripoli Evangelical School for Girls and Boys in Tripoli and the American University of Beirut, where he graduated with a degree in mathematics and physics. He moved on to Cairo in 1929, where he developed an interest in philosophy, which he proceeded to study at Harvard (under Alfred North Whitehead) and in Freiburg, Germany under Martin Heidegger in 1932. His stay in Germany, however, was short-lived. He found the policies of the Nazis unfavorable, and left soon after they came to power in 1933. In 1937, he received his Ph.D. in philosophy (based on metaphysics in the philosophies of Whitehead and Heidegger) from Harvard University. He taught there as well as at other universities in the United States. After returning to Lebanon, Malik founded the Philosophy Department at the American University of Beirut, as well as a cultural studies program (the 'civilization sequence program', now 'Civilization Studies Program'). He remained in this capacity until 1945 when he was appointed to be the Lebanese Ambassador to the United States and the United Nations.\n\nMalik represented Lebanon at the San Francisco conference at which the United Nations was founded. He served as a rapporteur for the Commission on Human Rights in 1947 and 1948, when he became President of the Economic and Social Council. The same year, he helped to draft the Universal Declaration of Human Rights with Chair and President of the Human Rights Commission, U.S. Delegate to the U.N. General Assembly, Eleanor Roosevelt. He succeeded Mrs. Roosevelt as the Human Rights Commission's Chair. He remained as ambassador to the US and UN until 1955. He was an outspoken participant in debates in the United Nations General Assembly and often criticized the Soviet Union. After a three-year absence, he returned in 1958 to preside over the thirteenth session of the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nMeanwhile, Malik had been appointed to the Lebanese Cabinet. He was Minister of National Education and Fine Arts in 1956 and 1957, and Minister of Foreign Affairs from 1956 to 1958. While a Minister, he was elected to the National Assembly in 1957, and served there for three years.\n\nFollowing the outbreak of the Lebanese Civil War, which raged from 1975 to 1990, Malik helped to found the Front for Freedom and Man in Lebanon, which he named as such, to defend the Christian cause. It was later renamed the Lebanese Front. A Greek Orthodox Christian, he was the only non-Maronite among the Front's top leaders, who included Phalangist Party founder Pierre Gemayel and former President and National Liberal Party leader Camille Chamoun. Malik was widely regarded as the brains of the Front, in which the other politicians were the brawn.\n\nMalik was also noted as a theologian who successfully reached across confessional lines, appealing to his fellow Eastern Orthodox Christians, Roman Catholics, and Evangelicals alike. The author of numerous commentaries on the Bible and on the writings of the early Church Fathers, Malik was one of the few Orthodox theologians of his time to be widely known in Evangelical circles, and the evangelical leader Bill Bright spoke well of him and quoted him. Partly owing to Malik's ecumenical appeal, as well as to his academic credentials, he served as President of the World Council on Christian Education from 1967 to 1971, and as Vice-President of the United Bible Societies from 1966 to 1972.\n\nMalik also famously worked alongside fellow Lebanese diplomat and philosopher Karim Azkoul.<ref name=\"Malik/Azkoul\"></ref> He is related to founder of post colonial studies, Edward Said through marriage.\n\nMalik returned to his academic career in 1960. He traveled extensively, lectured on human rights and other subjects, and held professorships at a number of American universities including Harvard, the American University in Washington, DC, Dartmouth College (New Hampshire), University of Notre Dame (Indiana). In 1981, he was also a Pascal Lecturer at the University of Waterloo in Canada. His last official post was with The Catholic University of America (Washington, DC), where he served as a Jacques Maritain Distinguished Professor of Moral and Political Philosophy from 1981 to 1983. He also returned to his old chair in Philosophy at the American University of Beirut (1962 to 1976) and was appointed Dean of Graduate Studies. Malik has been awarded a world record of 50 honorary degrees; the originals are in his archives in Notre Dame University, Lebanon.\n\nMalik died of complications due to kidney failure, secondary to atheroembolic disease sustained after a cardiac catheterization, performed at the Mayo Clinic two years earlier, in Beirut on 28 December 1987. His son, Habib Malik, is a prominent academic (with expertise in the history of ideas, and associate professor in the humanities division at the Lebanese American University) and also a human rights activist. He was also survived by his brother, the late Father Ramzi Habib Malik, a prominent Catholic priest who worked tirelessly for the cause of Christian reconciliation with the Jewish people as well as for the belief that the Jewish People are the elder brothers of the Christians.\nMalik's personal papers are housed in Notre Dame University, Lebanon, where 200 of his personal papers and books are stored, and in the Library of Congress, Washington D.C., where his heritage occupies 44 meters of shelves in the special collection area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "262625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262625", "title": "Chinua Achebe", "text": "Chinua Achebe\n\nChinua Achebe (; born Albert Chinụalụmọgụ Achebe, 16 November 1930 – 21 March 2013) was a Nigerian novelist, poet, professor, and critic. His first novel \"Things Fall Apart\" (1958), often considered his best, is the most widely read book in modern African literature. He won the Man Booker International Prize in 2007.\n\nRaised by his parents in the Igbo town of Ogidi in southeastern Nigeria, Achebe excelled at school and won a scholarship to study medicine, but changed his studies to English literature at University College (now the University of Ibadan). He became fascinated with world religions and traditional African cultures, and began writing stories as a university student. After graduation, he worked for the Nigerian Broadcasting Service (NBS) and soon moved to the metropolis of Lagos. He gained worldwide attention for his novel \"Things Fall Apart\" in the late 1950s; his later novels include \"No Longer at Ease\" (1960), \"Arrow of God\" (1964), \"A Man of the People\" (1966), and \"Anthills of the Savannah\" (1987). Achebe wrote his novels in English and defended the use of English, a \"language of colonisers\", in African literature. In 1975, his lecture \"An Image of Africa: Racism in Conrad's \"Heart of Darkness\"\" featured a famous criticism of Joseph Conrad as \"a thoroughgoing racist\"; it was later published in \"The Massachusetts Review\" amid some controversy.\n\nWhen the region of Biafra broke away from Nigeria in 1967, Achebe became a supporter of Biafran independence and acted as ambassador for the people of the new nation. The civil war that took place over the territory, commonly known as the Biafran War, ravaged the populace, and as starvation and violence took its toll, he appealed to the people of Europe and the Americas for aid. When the Nigerian government retook the region in 1970, he involved himself in political parties but soon resigned due to frustration over the corruption and elitism he witnessed. He lived in the United States for several years in the 1970s, and returned to the U.S. in 1990, after a car accident left him partially disabled.\n\nA titled Igbo chieftain himself, Achebe's novels focus on the traditions of Igbo society, the effect of Christian influences, and the clash of Western and traditional African values during and after the colonial era. His style relies heavily on the Igbo oral tradition, and combines straightforward narration with representations of folk stories, proverbs, and oratory. He also published a number of short stories, children's books, and essay collections.\n\nUpon his return to the United States in 1990, he began an eighteen-year tenure at Bard College as the Charles P. Stevenson Professor of Languages and Literature. From 2009 until his death, he served as David and Marianna Fisher University Professor and Professor of Africana Studies at Brown University.\n\nChinua Achebe was born on 16 November 1930. Achebe's parents, Isaiah Okafo Achebe and Janet Anaenechi Iloegbunam, were converts to the Protestant Church Mission Society (CMS) in Nigeria. The elder Achebe stopped practicing the religion of his ancestors, but he respected its traditions. Achebe's unabbreviated name, Chinualumogu (\"May God fight on my behalf\"), was a prayer for divine protection and stability. His first novel is \"Things Fall Apart\" (1958), \"Anthills of Savannah\"(1987), and his last \"There Was a Country\" originally published in (2012). The Achebe family had five other surviving children, named in a similar fusion of traditional words relating to their new religion: Frank Okwuofu, John Chukwuemeka Ifeanyichukwu, Zinobia Uzoma, Augustine Ndubisi, and Grace Nwanneka.\n\nAchebe was born Albert Chinualumogu Achebe in the Igbo village of Ogidi on 16 November 1930. Isaiah Okafo Achebe and Janet Anaenechi Iloegbunam Achebe stood at a crossroads of traditional culture and Christian influence; this made a significant impact on the children, especially Chinualumogu. After the youngest daughter was born, the family moved to Isaiah Achebe's ancestral town of Ogidi, in what is now the state of Anambra.\n\nStorytelling was a mainstay of the Igbo tradition and an integral part of the community. Achebe's mother and sister Zinobia Uzoma told him many stories as a child, which he repeatedly requested. His education was furthered by the collages his father hung on the walls of their home, as well as almanacs and numerous books – including a prose adaptation of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" (c. 1590) and an Igbo version of \"The Pilgrim's Progress\" (1678). Chinua also eagerly anticipated traditional village events, like the frequent masquerade ceremonies, which he recreated later in his novels and stories.\n\nIn 1936, Achebe entered St Philips' Central School. Despite his protests, he spent a week in the religious class for young children, but was quickly moved to a higher class when the school's chaplain took note of his intelligence. One teacher described him as the student with the best handwriting in class, and the best reading skills. He also attended Sunday school every week and the special evangelical services held monthly, often carrying his father's bag. A controversy erupted at one such session, when apostates from the new church challenged the catechist about the tenets of Christianity. Achebe later included a scene from this incident in \"Things Fall Apart\".\n\nAt the age of 12, Achebe moved away from his family to the village of Nekede, four kilometres from Owerri. He enrolled as a student at the Central School, where his older brother John taught. In Nekede, Achebe gained an appreciation for Mbari, a traditional art form that seeks to invoke the gods' protection through symbolic sacrifices in the form of sculpture and collage. (He would later suggest the name for the Mbari Writers and Artists Club that was founded in Ibadan by Ulli Beier and others in 1961.) When the time came to change to secondary school, in 1944, Achebe sat entrance examinations for and was accepted at both the prestigious Dennis Memorial Grammar School in Onitsha and the even more prestigious Government College in Umuahia.\n\nModeled on the British public school, and funded by the colonial administration, Government College was established in 1929 to educate Nigeria's future elite. It had rigorous academic standards and was vigorously elitist, accepting boys purely on the basis of ability. The language of the school was English, not only to develop proficiency but also to provide a common tongue for pupils from different Nigerian language groups. Achebe described this later as being ordered to \"put away their different mother tongues and communicate in the language of their colonisers\". The rule was strictly enforced and Achebe recalls that his first punishment was for asking another boy to pass the soap in Igbo.\n\nOnce there, Achebe was double-promoted in his first year, completing the first two years' studies in one, and spending only four years in secondary school, instead of the standard five. Achebe was unsuited to the school's sports regimen and belonged instead to a group of six exceedingly studious pupils. So intense were their study habits that the headmaster banned the reading of textbooks from five to six o'clock in the afternoon (though other activities and other books were allowed).\n\nAchebe started to explore the school's \"wonderful library\". There he discovered Booker T. Washington's \"Up from Slavery\" (1901), the autobiography of an American former slave; Achebe \"found it sad, but it showed him another dimension of reality\". He also read classic novels, such as \"Gulliver's Travels\" (1726), \"David Copperfield\" (1850), and \"Treasure Island\" (1883), together with tales of colonial derring-do such as H. Rider Haggard's \"Allan Quatermain\" (1887) and John Buchan's \"Prester John\" (1910). Achebe later recalled that, as a reader, he \"took sides with the white characters against the savages\" and even developed a dislike for Africans. \"The white man was good and reasonable and intelligent and courageous. The savages arrayed against him were sinister and stupid or, at the most, cunning. I hated their guts.\"\n\nIn 1948, in preparation for independence, Nigeria's first university opened. Known as University College (now the University of Ibadan), it was an associate college of the University of London. Achebe obtained such high marks in the entrance examination that he was admitted as a Major Scholar in the university's first intake and given a bursary to study medicine. It was during his studies at Ibadan that Achebe began to become critical of European literature about Africa. After reading Joyce Cary's 1939 work \"Mister Johnson\" about a cheerful Nigerian man who (among other things) works for an abusive British storeowner, he was so disturbed by the book's portrayal of its Nigerian characters as either savages or buffoons that he decided to become a writer. Achebe recognised his dislike for the African protagonist as a sign of the author's cultural ignorance. One of his classmates announced to the professor that the only enjoyable moment in the book is when Johnson is shot.\n\nHe abandoned the study of medicine and changed to English, history, and theology. Because he switched his field, however, he lost his scholarship and had to pay tuition fees. He received a government bursary, and his family also donated money – his older brother Augustine gave up money for a trip home from his job as a civil servant so Chinua could continue his studies. From its inception, the university had a strong Arts faculty; it includes many famous writers amongst its alumni. These include Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka, poet and playwright John Pepper Clark, and poet Christopher Okigbo. Elechi Amadi is also another famous writer who studied at the university in the 1950s, although he was in the faculty of sciences.\n\nIn 1950 Achebe wrote a piece for the \"University Herald\" entitled \"Polar Undergraduate\", his debut as an author. It used irony and humour to celebrate the intellectual vigour of his classmates. He followed this with other essays and letters about philosophy and freedom in academia, some of which were published in another campus magazine, \"The Bug\". He served as the \"Herald\"'s editor during the 1951–52 school year.\n\nWhile at the university, Achebe wrote his first short story, \"In a Village Church\", which combines details of life in rural Nigeria with Christian institutions and icons, a style which appears in many of his later works. Other short stories he wrote during his time at Ibadan (including \"The Old Order in Conflict with the New\" and \"Dead Men's Path\") examine conflicts between tradition and modernity, with an eye toward dialogue and understanding on both sides. When a professor named Geoffrey Parrinder arrived at the university to teach comparative religion, Achebe began to explore the fields of Christian history and African traditional religions.\n\nAfter the final examinations at Ibadan in 1953, Achebe was awarded a second-class degree. Rattled by not receiving the highest level, he was uncertain how to proceed after graduation. He returned to his hometown of Ogidi to sort through his options.\n\nWhile he meditated on his possible career paths, Achebe was visited by a friend from the university, who convinced him to apply for an English teaching position at the Merchants of Light school at Oba. It was a ramshackle institution with a crumbling infrastructure and a meagre library; the school was built on what the residents called \"bad bush\" – a section of land thought to be tainted by unfriendly spirits. Later, in \"Things Fall Apart\", Achebe describes a similar area called the \"evil forest\", where the Christian missionaries are given a place to build their church.\n\nAs a teacher he urged his students to read extensively and be original in their work. The students did not have access to the newspapers he had read as a student, so Achebe made his own available in the classroom. He taught in Oba for four months, but when an opportunity arose in 1954 to work for the Nigerian Broadcasting Service (NBS), he left the school and moved to Lagos.\n\nThe NBS, a radio network started in 1933 by the colonial government, assigned Achebe to the Talks Department, preparing scripts for oral delivery. This helped him master the subtle nuances between written and spoken language, a skill that helped him later to write realistic dialogue.\n\nThe city of Lagos also made a significant impression on him. A huge conurbation, the city teemed with recent migrants from the rural villages. Achebe revelled in the social and political activity around him and later drew upon his experiences when describing the city in his 1960 novel \"No Longer at Ease\".\n\nWhile in Lagos, Achebe started work on a novel. This was challenging, since very little African fiction had been written in English, although Amos Tutuola's \"Palm-Wine Drinkard\" (1952) and Cyprian Ekwensi's \"People of the City\" (1954) were notable exceptions. While appreciating Ekwensi's work, Achebe worked hard to develop his own style, even as he pioneered the creation of the Nigerian novel itself. A visit to Nigeria by Queen Elizabeth II in 1956 brought issues of colonialism and politics to the surface, and was a significant moment for Achebe.\n\nAlso in 1956 he was selected at the Staff School run by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). His first trip outside Nigeria was an opportunity to advance his technical production skills, and to solicit feedback on his novel (which was later split into two books). In London, he met a novelist named Gilbert Phelps, to whom he offered the manuscript. Phelps responded with great enthusiasm, asking Achebe if he could show it to his editor and publishers. Achebe declined, insisting that it needed more work.\n\nBack in Nigeria, Achebe set to work revising and editing his novel (now titled \"Things Fall Apart\", after a line in the poem \"The Second Coming\" by W. B. Yeats). He cut away the second and third sections of the book, leaving only the story of a yam farmer named Okonkwo who lives during the colonization of Nigeria. He added sections, improved various chapters, and restructured the prose. By 1957, he had sculpted it to his liking, and took advantage of an advertisement offering a typing service. He sent his only copy of his handwritten manuscript (along with the ₤22 fee) to the London company. After he waited several months without receiving any communication from the typing service, Achebe began to worry. His boss at the NBS, Angela Beattie, was going to London for her annual leave; he asked her to visit the company. She did, and angrily demanded to know why the manuscript was lying ignored in the corner of the office. The company quickly sent a typed copy to Achebe. Beattie's intervention was crucial for his ability to continue as a writer. Had the novel been lost, he later said, \"I would have been so discouraged that I would probably have given up altogether.\"\n\nIn 1958, Achebe sent his novel to the agent recommended by Gilbert Phelps in London. It was sent to several publishing houses; some rejected it immediately, claiming that fiction from African writers had no market potential. Finally it reached the office of Heinemann, where executives hesitated until an educational adviser, Donald MacRae, just back in England after a trip through West Africa, read the book and forced the company's hand with his succinct report: \"This is the best novel I have read since the war\".\n\nHeinemann published 2,000 hardcover copies of \"Things Fall Apart\" on 17 June 1958. According to Alan Hill, employed by the publisher at the time, the company did not \"touch a word of it\" in preparation for release. The book was received well by the British press, and received positive reviews from critic Walter Allen and novelist Angus Wilson. Three days after publication, \"The Times Literary Supplement\" wrote that the book \"genuinely succeeds in presenting tribal life from the inside\". \"The Observer\" called it \"an excellent novel\", and the literary magazine \"Time and Tide\" said that \"Mr. Achebe's style is a model for aspirants\".\n\nInitial reception in Nigeria was mixed. When Hill tried to promote the book in West Africa, he was met with scepticism and ridicule. The faculty at the University of Ibadan was amused at the thought of a worthwhile novel being written by an alumnus. Others were more supportive; one review in the magazine \"Black Orpheus\" said: \"The book as a whole creates for the reader such a vivid picture of Igbo life that the plot and characters are little more than symbols representing a way of life lost irrevocably within living memory.\"\n\nIn the book Okonkwo struggles with the legacy of his father – a shiftless debtor fond of playing the flute – as well as the complications and contradictions that arise when white missionaries arrive in his village of Umuofia. Exploring the terrain of cultural conflict, particularly the encounter between Igbo tradition and Christian doctrine, Achebe returns to the themes of his earlier stories, which grew from his own background.\n\n\"Things Fall Apart\" went on to become one of the most important books in African literature. Selling over 20 million copies around the world, it was translated into 57 languages, making Achebe the most translated African writer of all time.\n\nThe book, in recognition of its universality, appears in the Bokklubben World Library collection \"proposed by one hundred writers from fifty-four different countries, compiled and organized in 2002 by the Norwegian Book Club. This list endeavors to reflect world literature, with books from all countries, cultures, and time periods.\" The book is also included in the Encyclopedia Britannica's list of \"12 Novels Considered the 'Greatest Book Ever Written'\".\n\nNigerian Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka has described the work as \"the first novel in English which spoke from the interior of the African character, rather than portraying the African as an exotic, as the white man would see him.\"\n\nIn the same year \"Things Fall Apart\" was published, Achebe was promoted at the NBS and put in charge of the network's eastern region coverage. He moved to Enugu and began to work on his administrative duties. There he met a woman named Christiana Chinwe (Christie) Okoli, who had grown up in the area and joined the NBS staff when he arrived. They first conversed when she brought to his attention a pay discrepancy; a friend of hers found that, although they had been hired simultaneously, Christie had been rated lower and offered a lower wage. Sent to the hospital for an appendectomy soon after, she was pleasantly surprised when Achebe visited her with gifts and magazines.\n\nAchebe and Okoli grew closer in the following years, and on 10 September 1961 they were married in the Chapel of Resurrection on the campus of the University of Ibadan. Christie Achebe has described their marriage as one of trust and mutual understanding; some tension arose early in their union, due to conflicts about attention and communication. However, as their relationship matured, husband and wife made efforts to adapt to one another.\n\nTheir first child, a daughter named Chinelo, was born on 11 July 1962. They had a son, Ikechukwu, on 3 December 1964, and another boy named Chidi, on 24 May 1967. When the children began attending school in Lagos, their parents became worried about the world view – especially with regard to race – expressed at the school, especially through the mostly white teachers and books that presented a prejudiced view of African life. In 1966, Achebe published his first children's book, \"Chike and the River\", to address some of these concerns. After the Biafran War, the Achebes had another daughter on 7 March 1970, named Nwando. When asked about his family Achebe stated: \"There are few things more important than my family.\"\n\nIn 1960, while they were still dating, Achebe dedicated to Christie Okoli his second novel, \"No Longer at Ease\", about a civil servant who is embroiled in the corruption of Lagos. The protagonist is Obi, grandson of \"Things Fall Apart\"'s main character, Okonkwo. Drawing on his time in the city, Achebe writes about Obi's experiences in Lagos to reflect the challenges facing a new generation on the threshold of Nigerian independence. Obi is trapped between the expectations of his family, its clan, his home village, and larger society. He is crushed by these forces (like his grandfather before him) and finds himself imprisoned for bribery. Having shown his acumen for portraying traditional Igbo culture, Achebe demonstrated in his second novel an ability to depict modern Nigerian life.\n\nLater that year, Achebe was awarded a Rockefeller Fellowship for six months of travel, which he called \"the first important perk of my writing career\"; Achebe set out for a tour of East Africa. One month after Nigeria achieved its independence, he travelled to Kenya, where he was required to complete an immigration form by checking a box indicating his ethnicity: European, Asiatic, Arab, or Other. Shocked and dismayed at being forced into an \"Other\" identity, he found the situation \"almost funny\" and took an extra form as a souvenir. Continuing to Tanganyika and Zanzibar (now united in Tanzania), he was frustrated by the paternalistic attitude he observed among non-African hotel clerks and social elites.\n\nAchebe also found in his travels that Swahili was gaining prominence as a major African language. Radio programs were broadcast in Swahili, and its use was widespread in the countries he visited. Nevertheless, he also found an \"apathy\" among the people toward literature written in Swahili. He met the poet Sheikh Shaaban Robert, who complained of the difficulty he had faced in trying to publish his Swahili-language work.\n\nIn Northern Rhodesia (now called Zambia), Achebe found himself sitting in a whites-only section of a bus to Victoria Falls. Interrogated by the ticket taker as to why he was sitting in the front, he replied, \"if you must know I come from Nigeria, and there we sit where we like in the bus.\" Upon reaching the waterfall, he was cheered by the black travellers from the bus, but he was saddened by their being unable to resist the policy of segregation at the time.\n\nTwo years later, Achebe again left Nigeria, this time as part of a Fellowship for Creative Artists awarded by UNESCO. He travelled to the United States and Brazil. He met with a number of writers from the US, including novelists Ralph Ellison and Arthur Miller. In Brazil, he met with several other authors, with whom he discussed the complications of writing in Portuguese. Achebe worried that the vibrant literature of the nation would be lost if left untranslated into a more widely spoken language.\n\nOnce he returned to Nigeria, Achebe was promoted at the NBS to the position of Director of External Broadcasting. One of his first duties was to help create the Voice of Nigeria network. The station broadcast its first transmission on New Year's Day 1962, and worked to maintain an objective perspective during the turbulent era immediately following independence. This objectivity was put to the test when Nigerian Prime Minister Abubakar Tafawa Balewa declared a state of emergency in the Western Region, responding to a series of conflicts between officials of varying parties. Achebe became saddened by the evidence of corruption and silencing of political opposition.\n\nIn 1962 he attended an executive conference of African writers in English at the Makerere University College in Kampala, Uganda. He met with important literary figures from around the continent and the world, including Ghanaian poet Kofi Awoonor, Nigerian playwright and poet Wole Soyinka, and US poet-author Langston Hughes. Among the topics of discussion was an attempt to determine whether the term African literature ought to include work from the diaspora, or solely that writing composed by people living within the continent itself. Achebe indicated that it was not \"a very significant question\", and that scholars would do well to wait until a body of work were large enough to judge. Writing about the conference in several journals, Achebe hailed it as a milestone for the literature of Africa, and highlighted the importance of community among isolated voices on the continent and beyond.\n\nWhile at Makerere, Achebe was asked to read a novel written by a student (James Ngugi, later known as Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o) called \"Weep Not, Child\". Impressed, he sent it to Alan Hill at Heinemann, which published it two years later to coincide with its paperback line of books from African writers. Hill indicated this was to remedy a situation where British publishers \"regarded West Africa only as a place where you sold books.\" Achebe was chosen to be General Editor of the African Writers Series, which became a significant force in bringing postcolonial literature from Africa to the rest of the world, and he continued in that role until 1972.\n\nAs these works became more widely available, reviews and essays about African literature – especially from Europe – began to flourish. Bristling against the commentary flooding his home country, Achebe published an essay entitled \"Where Angels Fear to Tread\" in the December 1962 issue of \"Nigeria Magazine\". In it, he distinguished between the hostile critic (entirely negative), the amazed critic (entirely positive), and the conscious critic (who seeks a balance). He lashed out at those who critiqued African writers from the outside, saying: \"no man can understand another whose language he does not speak (and 'language' here does not mean simply words, but a man's entire world view).\" In September 1964 he attended the Commonwealth Literature conference at the University of Leeds, presenting his essay \"The Novelist as Teacher\".\n\nAchebe's third book, \"Arrow of God\", was published in 1964. Like its predecessors, it explores the intersections of Igbo tradition and European Christianity. Set in the village of Umuaro at the start of the twentieth century, the novel tells the story of Ezeulu, a Chief Priest of Ulu. Shocked by the power of British intervention in the area, he orders his son to learn the foreigners' secret. Ezeulu is consumed by the resulting tragedy.\n\nThe idea for the novel came in 1959, when Achebe heard the story of a Chief Priest being imprisoned by a District Officer. He drew further inspiration a year later when he viewed a collection of Igbo objects excavated from the area by archaeologist Thurstan Shaw; Achebe was startled by the cultural sophistication of the artifacts. When an acquaintance showed him a series of papers from colonial officers (not unlike the fictional \"Pacification of the Primitive Tribes of the Lower Niger\" referenced at the end of \"Things Fall Apart\"), Achebe combined these strands of history and began work on \"Arrow of God\" in earnest. Like Achebe's previous works, \"Arrow\" was roundly praised by critics. A revised edition was published in 1974 to correct what Achebe called \"certain structural weaknesses\".\n\nIn a letter written to Achebe, the US writer John Updike expressed his surprised admiration for the sudden downfall of \"Arrow of God\"s protagonist. He praised the author's courage to write \"an ending few Western novelists would have contrived\". Achebe responded by suggesting that the individualistic hero was rare in African literature, given its roots in communal living and the degree to which characters are \"subject to non-human forces in the universe\".\n\n\"A Man of the People\" was published in 1966. A bleak satire set in an unnamed African state which has just attained independence, the novel follows a teacher named Odili Samalu from the village of Anata who opposes a corrupt Minister of Culture named Nanga for his Parliament seat. Upon reading an advance copy of the novel, Achebe's friend John Pepper Clark declared: \"Chinua, I \"know\" you are a prophet. Everything in this book has happened except a military coup!\"\n\nSoon afterward, Nigerian Major Chukwuma Kaduna Nzeogwu seized control of the northern region of the country as part of a larger coup attempt. Commanders in other areas failed, and the plot was answered by a military crackdown. A massacre of three thousand people from the eastern region living in the north occurred soon afterwards, and stories of other attacks on Igbo Nigerians began to filter into Lagos.\n\nThe ending of his novel had brought Achebe to the attention of military personnel, who suspected him of having foreknowledge of the coup. When he received word of the pursuit, he sent his wife (who was pregnant) and children on a squalid boat through a series of unseen creeks to the Igbo stronghold of Port Harcourt. They arrived safely, but Christie suffered a miscarriage at the journey's end. Chinua rejoined them soon afterwards in Ogidi. These cities were safe from military incursion because they were in the southeast, part of the region which would later secede.\n\nOnce the family had resettled in Enugu, Achebe and his friend Christopher Okigbo started a publishing house called Citadel Press, to improve the quality and increase the quantity of literature available to younger readers. One of its first submissions was a story called \"How the Dog was Domesticated\", which Achebe revised and rewrote, turning it into a complex allegory for the country's political tumult. Its final title was \"How the Leopard Got His Claws\". Years later a Nigerian intelligence officer told Achebe, \"of all the things that came out of Biafra, that book was the most important.\"\n\nIn May 1967, the southeastern region of Nigeria broke away to form the Republic of Biafra; in July the Nigerian military attacked to suppress what it considered an unlawful rebellion. Achebe's colleague, Christopher Okigbo, who had become a close friend of the family (especially of Achebe's son, young Ikechukwu), volunteered to join the secessionist army while simultaneously working at the press. Achebe's house was bombed one afternoon; Christie had taken the children to visit her sick mother, so the only victims were his books and papers. The Achebe family narrowly escaped disaster several times during the war. Five days later, Christopher Okigbo was killed on the war's front line. Achebe was shaken considerably by the loss; in 1971 he wrote \"Dirge for Okigbo\", originally in the Igbo language but later translated to English.\n\nAs the war intensified, the Achebe family was forced to leave Enugu for the Biafran capital of Aba. As the turmoil closed in, he continued to write, but most of his creative work during the war took the form of poetry. The shorter format was a consequence of living in a war zone. \"I can write poetry,\" he said, \"something short, intense more in keeping with my mood  ... All this is creating in the context of our struggle.\" Many of these poems were collected in his 1971 book \"Beware, Soul Brother\". One of his most famous, \"Refugee Mother and Child\", spoke to the suffering and loss that surrounded him. Dedicated to the promise of Biafra, he accepted a request to serve as foreign ambassador, refusing an invitation from the Program of African Studies at Northwestern University in the US. Achebe traveled to many cities in Europe, including London, where he continued his work with the African Writers Series project at Heinemann.\n\nDuring the war, relations between writers in Nigeria and Biafra were strained. Achebe and John Pepper Clark had a tense confrontation in London over their respective support for opposing sides of the conflict. Achebe demanded that the publisher withdraw the dedication of \"A Man of the People\" he had given to Clark. Years later, their friendship healed and the dedication was restored. Meanwhile, their contemporary Wole Soyinka was imprisoned for meeting with Biafran officials, and spent two years in jail. Speaking in 1968, Achebe said: \"I find the Nigerian situation untenable. If I had been a Nigerian, I think I would have been in the same situation as Wole Soyinka is – in prison.\"\n\nThe Nigerian government, under the leadership of General Yakubu Gowon, was backed by the British government; the two nations enjoyed a vigorous trade partnership. Addressing the causes of the war in 1968, Achebe lashed out at the Nigerian political and military forces that had forced Biafra to secede. He framed the conflict in terms of the country's colonial past. The writer in Nigeria, he said, \"found that the independence his country was supposed to have won was totally without content  ... The old white master was still in power. He had got himself a bunch of black stooges to do his dirty work for a commission.\"\n\nConditions in Biafra worsened as the war continued. In September 1968, the city of Aba fell to the Nigerian military and Achebe once again moved his family, this time to Umuahia, where the Biafran government had also relocated. He was chosen to chair the newly formed National Guidance Committee, charged with the task of drafting principles and ideas for the post-war era. In 1969, the group completed a document entitled \"The Principles of the Biafran Revolution\", later released as \"The Ahiara Declaration\".\n\nIn October of the same year, Achebe joined writers Cyprian Ekwensi and Gabriel Okara for a tour of the United States to raise awareness about the dire situation in Biafra. They visited thirty college campuses and conducted countless interviews. While in the southern US, Achebe learned for the first time of the Igbo Landing, a true story of a group of Igbo captives who drowned themselves in 1803 – rather than endure the brutality of slavery – after surviving through the Middle Passage. Although the group was well received by students and faculty, Achebe was \"shocked\" by the harsh racist attitude toward Africa he saw in the US. At the end of the tour, he said that \"world policy is absolutely ruthless and unfeeling\".\n\nThe beginning of 1970 saw the end of the state of Biafra. On 12 January, the military surrendered to Nigeria, and Achebe returned with his family to Ogidi, where their home had been destroyed. He took a job at the University of Nigeria in Nsukka and immersed himself once again in academia. He was unable to accept invitations to other countries, however, because the Nigerian government revoked his passport due to his support for Biafra.\n\nAfter the war, Achebe helped start two magazines: the literary journal \"Okike\", a forum for African art, fiction, and poetry; and \"Nsukkascope\", an internal publication of the University (motto: \"Devastating, Fearless, Brutal and True\"). Achebe and the \"Okike\" committee later established another cultural magazine, \"Uwa Ndi Igbo\", to showcase the indigenous stories and oral traditions of the Igbo community. In February 1972 he released \"Girls at War\", a collection of short stories ranging in time from his undergraduate days to the recent bloodshed. It was the 100th book in Heinemann's African Writers Series.\n\nThe University of Massachusetts Amherst offered Achebe a professorship later that year, and the family moved to the United States. Their youngest daughter was displeased with her nursery school, and the family soon learned that her frustration involved language. Achebe helped her face the \"alien experience\" (as he called it) by telling her stories during the car trips to and from school.\n\nAs he presented his lessons to a wide variety of students (he taught only one class, to a large audience), he began to study the perceptions of Africa in Western scholarship: \"Africa is not like anywhere else they know  ... there are no real people in the Dark Continent, only \"forces\" operating; and people don't speak any language you can understand, they just grunt, too busy jumping up and down in a frenzy\".\n\nAchebe expanded this criticism when he presented a Chancellor's Lecture at Amherst on 18 February 1975, \"An Image of Africa: Racism in Conrad's \"Heart of Darkness\"\". Decrying Joseph Conrad as \"a bloody racist\", Achebe asserted that Conrad's famous novel dehumanises Africans, rendering Africa as \"a metaphysical battlefield devoid of all recognisable humanity, into which the wandering European enters at his peril.\"\n\nAchebe also discussed a quotation from Albert Schweitzer, a 1952 Nobel Peace Prize laureate: \"That extraordinary missionary, Albert Schweitzer, who sacrificed brilliant careers in music and theology in Europe for a life of service to Africans in much the same area as Conrad writes about, epitomizes the ambivalence. In a comment which has often been quoted Schweitzer says: 'The African is indeed my brother but my junior brother.' And so he proceeded to build a hospital appropriate to the needs of junior brothers with standards of hygiene reminiscent of medical practice in the days before the germ theory of disease came into being.\" Some were surprised that Achebe would challenge a man honoured in the West for his \"reverence for life\".\n\nThe lecture caused a storm of controversy, even at the reception immediately following his talk. Many English professors in attendance were upset by his remarks; one elderly professor reportedly approached him, said: \"How dare you!\", and stormed away. Another suggested that Achebe had \"no sense of humour\", but several days later Achebe was approached by a third professor, who told him: \"I now realize that I had never really read \"Heart of Darkness\" although I have taught it for years.\" Although the lecture angered many of his colleagues, he was nevertheless presented later in 1975 with an honorary doctorate from the University of Stirling and the Lotus Prize for Afro-Asian Writers.\n\nThe first comprehensive rebuttal of Achebe's critique was published in 1983 by British critic Cedric Watts. His essay \"A Bloody Racist: About Achebe's View of Conrad\" defends \"Heart of Darkness\" as an anti-imperialist novel, suggesting that \"part of its greatness lies in the power of its criticisms of racial prejudice.\" Palestinian–American theorist Edward Said agreed in his book \"Culture and Imperialism\" that Conrad criticised imperialism, but added: \"As a creature of his time, Conrad could not grant the natives their freedom, despite his severe critique of the imperialism that enslaved them\". Building on Watts and Said, Nidesh Lawtoo argued that \"underneath the first layer of straightforward opposition ... we find an underlying mimetic continuity between Conrad's colonial image of Africa [in \"Heart of Darkness\"] and Achebe's postcolonial representation\" in \"Things Fall Apart\".\n\nAchebe's criticism has become a mainstream perspective on Conrad's work. The essay was included in the 1988 Norton critical edition of Conrad's novel. Editor Robert Kimbrough called it one of \"the three most important events in \"Heart of Darkness\" criticism since the second edition of his book  ...\" Critic Nicolas Tredell divides Conrad criticism \"into two epochal phases: before and after Achebe.\" Asked frequently about his essay, Achebe once explained that he never meant for the work to be abandoned: \"It's not in my nature to talk about banning books. I am saying, read it – with the kind of understanding and with the knowledge I talk about. And read it beside African works.\" Interviewed on National Public Radio with Robert Siegel, in October 2009, Achebe remains consistent, although tempering this criticism in a discussion entitled \"'Heart of Darkness' is inappropriate\": \"Conrad was a seductive writer. He could pull his reader into the fray. And if it were not for what he said about me and my people, I would probably be thinking only of that seduction.\"\n\nWhen he returned to the University of Nigeria in 1976, he hoped to accomplish three goals: finish the novel he had been writing, renew the native publication of \"Okike\", and further his study of Igbo culture. He also showed that he would not restrict his criticism to European targets. In an August 1976 interview, he lashed out at the archetypal Nigerian intellectual, who is divorced from the intellect \"but for two things: status and stomach. And if there's any danger that he might suffer official displeasure or lose his job, he would prefer to turn a blind eye to what is happening around him.\" In October 1979, Achebe was awarded the first-ever Nigerian National Merit Award.\n\nIn 1980 he met James Baldwin at a conference held by the African Literature Association in Gainesville, Florida, USA. The writers – with similar political perspectives, beliefs about language, and faith in the liberating potential of literature – were eager to meet one another. Baldwin said: \"It's very important that we should meet each other, finally, if I must say so, after something like 400 years.\"\n\nIn 1982, Achebe retired from the University of Nigeria. He devoted more time to editing \"Okike\" and became active with the left-leaning People's Redemption Party (PRP). In 1983, he became the party's deputy national vice-president. He published a book called \"The Trouble with Nigeria\" to coincide with the upcoming elections. On the first page, Achebe says bluntly: \"the Nigerian problem is the unwillingness or inability of its leaders to rise to the responsibility and to the challenge of personal example which are the hallmarks of true leadership.\"\n\nThe elections that followed were marked by violence and charges of fraud. Asked whether he thought Nigerian politics had changed since \"A Man of the People\", Achebe replied: \"I think, if anything, the Nigerian politician has deteriorated.\" After the elections, he engaged in a heated argument – which almost became a fistfight – with Bakin Zuwo, the newly elected governor of Kano State. He left the PRP and afterwards kept his distance from political parties, expressing his sadness at the dishonesty and weakness of the people involved.\n\nHe spent most of the 1980s delivering speeches, attending conferences, and working on his sixth novel. He also continued winning awards and collecting honorary degrees. In 1986 he was elected president-general of the Ogidi Town Union; he reluctantly accepted and began a three-year term. In the same year, he stepped down as editor of \"Okike\".\n\nIn 1987 Achebe released his fifth novel, \"Anthills of the Savannah\", about a military coup in the fictional West African nation of Kangan. A finalist for the Booker Prize, the novel was hailed in the \"Financial Times\": \"in a powerful fusion of myth, legend and modern styles, Achebe has written a book which is wise, exciting and essential, a powerful antidote to the cynical commentators from 'overseas' who see nothing ever new out of Africa.\" An opinion piece in the magazine \"West Africa\" said the book deserved to win the Booker Prize, and that Achebe was \"a writer who has long deserved the recognition that has already been accorded him by his sales figures.\" The prize went instead to Penelope Lively's novel \"Moon Tiger\".\n\nOn 22 March 1990, Achebe was riding in a car to Lagos when an axle collapsed and the car flipped. His son Ikechukwu and the driver suffered minor injuries, but the weight of the vehicle fell on Achebe and his spine was severely damaged. He was flown to the Paddocks Hospital in Buckinghamshire, England, and treated for his injuries. In July doctors announced that although he was recuperating well, he was paralyzed from the waist down and would require the use of a wheelchair for the rest of his life.\n\nSoon afterwards, Achebe became the Charles P. Stevenson Professor of Languages and Literature at Bard College in Annandale-on-Hudson, New York; he held the position for more than fifteen years. In 1999, Achebe was awarded the St. Louis Literary Award from the Saint Louis University Library Associates. In the autumn of 2009 he joined the Brown University faculty as the David and Marianna Fisher University Professor of Africana Studies.\n\nIn October 2005, the London \"Financial Times\" reported that Achebe was planning to write a novella for the \"Canongate Myth Series\", a series of short novels in which ancient myths from myriad cultures are reimagined and rewritten by contemporary authors.\n\nIn June 2007, Achebe was awarded the Man Booker International Prize. The judging panel included US critic Elaine Showalter, who said he \"illuminated the path for writers around the world seeking new words and forms for new realities and societies\"; and South African writer Nadine Gordimer, who said Achebe has achieved \"what one of his characters brilliantly defines as the writer's purpose: 'a new-found utterance' for the capture of life's complexity\". In 2010, Achebe was awarded The Dorothy and Lillian Gish Prize for $300,000, one of the richest prizes for the arts.\n\nIn October 2012, Achebe's publishers, Penguin Books, released \"There Was a Country: A Personal History of Biafra\". Publication immediately caused a stir and re-opened the discussion about the Nigerian Civil War. It would prove to be the last publication during his lifetime.\n\nFondly called the \"father of African literature\", Achebe died after a short illness on 21 March 2013 in Boston, United States. An unidentified source close to the family said that he was ill for a while and had been hospitalised in the city. Penguin publishing director Simon Winder said: \"... we are all desolate to hear of his death.\" \"The New York Times\" described him in his obituary as \"one of Africa's most widely read novelists and one of the continent's towering men of letters\". The BBC wrote that he was \"revered throughout the world for his depiction of life in Africa\". He was laid to rest in his hometown in Ogidi, Anambra State.\n\nThe style of Achebe's fiction draws heavily on the oral tradition of the Igbo people. He weaves folk tales into the fabric of his stories, illuminating community values in both the content and the form of the storytelling. The tale about the Earth and Sky in \"Things Fall Apart\", for example, emphasises the interdependency of the masculine and the feminine. Although Nwoye enjoys hearing his mother tell the tale, Okonkwo's dislike for it is evidence of his imbalance. Later, Nwoye avoids beatings from his father by pretending to dislike such \"women's stories\".\n\nAnother hallmark of Achebe's style is the use of proverbs, which often illustrate the values of the rural Igbo tradition. He sprinkles them throughout the narratives, repeating points made in conversation. Critic Anjali Gera notes that the use of proverbs in \"Arrow of God\" \"serves to create through an echo effect the judgement of a community upon an individual violation.\" The use of such repetition in Achebe's urban novels, \"No Longer at Ease\" and \"A Man of the People\", is less pronounced.\n\nFor Achebe, however, proverbs and folk stories are not the sum total of the oral Igbo tradition. In combining philosophical thought and public performance into the use of oratory (\"Okwu Oka\" – \"speech artistry\" – in the Igbo phrase), his characters exhibit what he called \"a matter of individual excellence  ... part of Igbo culture.\" In \"Things Fall Apart\", Okonkwo's friend Obierika voices the most impassioned oratory, crystallising the events and their significance for the village. Nwaka in \"Arrow of God\" also exhibits a mastery of oratory, albeit for malicious ends.\n\nAchebe frequently includes folk songs and descriptions of dancing in his work. Obi, the protagonist of \"No Longer at Ease\", is at one point met by women singing a \"Song of the Heart\", which Achebe gives in both Igbo and English: \"Is everyone here? / (Hele ee he ee he)\" In \"Things Fall Apart\", ceremonial dancing and the singing of folk songs reflect the realities of Igbo tradition. The elderly Uchendu, attempting to shake Okonkwo out of his self-pity, refers to a song sung after the death of a woman: \"For whom is it well, for whom is it well? There is no one for whom it is well.\" This song contrasts with the \"gay and rollicking tunes of evangelism\" sung later by the white missionaries.\n\nAchebe's short stories are not as widely studied as his novels, and Achebe himself did not consider them a major part of his work. In the preface for \"Girls at War and Other Stories\", he writes: \"A dozen pieces in twenty years must be accounted a pretty lean harvest by any reckoning.\" Like his novels, the short stories are heavily influenced by the oral tradition. And like the folktales they follow, the stories often have morals emphasising the importance of cultural traditions.\n\nAs the decolonisation process unfolded in the 1950s, a debate about choice of language erupted and pursued authors around the world; Achebe was no exception. Indeed, because of his subject matter and insistence on a non-colonial narrative, he found his novels and decisions interrogated with extreme scrutiny – particularly with regard to his use of English. One school of thought, championed by Kenyan writer Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o, urged the use of indigenous African languages. English and other European languages, he said in 1986, were \"part of the neo-colonial structures that repress progressive ideas\".\n\nAchebe chose to write in English. In his essay \"The African Writer and the English Language\", he discusses how the process of colonialism – for all its ills – provided colonised people from varying linguistic backgrounds \"a language with which to talk to one another\". As his purpose is to communicate with readers across Nigeria, he uses \"the one central language enjoying nationwide currency\". Using English also allowed his books to be read in the colonial ruling nations.\n\nStill, Achebe recognises the shortcomings of what Audre Lorde called \"the master's tools\". In another essay he notes:\n\nIn another essay, he refers to James Baldwin's struggle to use the English language to accurately represent his experience, and his realisation that he needed to take control of the language and expand it. The Nigerian poet and novelist Gabriel Okara likens the process of language-expansion to the evolution of jazz music in the United States.\n\nAchebe's novels laid a formidable groundwork for this process. By altering syntax, usage, and idiom, he transforms the language into a distinctly African style. In some spots this takes the form of repetition of an Igbo idea in standard English parlance; elsewhere it appears as narrative asides integrated into descriptive sentences.\n\nAchebe's novels approach a variety of themes. In his early writing, a depiction of the Igbo culture itself is paramount. Critic Nahem Yousaf highlights the importance of these depictions: \"Around the tragic stories of Okonkwo and Ezeulu, Achebe sets about textualising Igbo cultural identity\". The portrayal of indigenous life is not simply a matter of literary background, he adds: \"Achebe seeks to produce the effect of a precolonial reality as an Igbo-centric response to a Eurocentrically constructed imperial 'reality' \". Certain elements of Achebe's depiction of Igbo life in \"Things Fall Apart\" match those in Olaudah Equiano's autobiographical \"Narrative\". Responding to charges that Equiano was not actually born in Africa, Achebe wrote in 1975: \"Equiano was an Igbo, I believe, from the village of Iseke in the Orlu division of Nigeria\".\n\nA prevalent theme in Achebe's novels is the intersection of African tradition (particularly Igbo varieties) and modernity, especially as embodied by European colonialism. The village of Umuofia in \"Things Fall Apart\", for example, is violently shaken with internal divisions when the white Christian missionaries arrive. Nigerian English professor Ernest N. Emenyonu describes the colonial experience in the novel as \"the systematic emasculation of the entire culture\". Achebe later embodied this tension between African tradition and Western influence in the figure of Sam Okoli, the president of Kangan in \"Anthills of the Savannah\". Distanced from the myths and tales of the community by his Westernised education, he does not have the capacity for reconnection shown by the character Beatrice.\n\nThe colonial impact on the Igbo in Achebe's novels is often effected by individuals from Europe, but institutions and urban offices frequently serve a similar purpose. The character of Obi in \"No Longer at Ease\" succumbs to colonial-era corruption in the city; the temptations of his position overwhelm his identity and fortitude. The courts and the position of District Commissioner in \"Things Fall Apart\" likewise clash with the traditions of the Igbo, and remove their ability to participate in structures of decision-making.\n\nThe standard Achebean ending results in the destruction of an individual and, by synecdoche, the downfall of the community. Odili's descent into the luxury of corruption and hedonism in \"A Man of the People\", for example, is symbolic of the post-colonial crisis in Nigeria and elsewhere. Even with the emphasis on colonialism, however, Achebe's tragic endings embody the traditional confluence of fate, individual and society, as represented by Sophocles and Shakespeare.\n\nStill, Achebe seeks to portray neither moral absolutes nor a fatalistic inevitability. In 1972, he said: \"I never will take the stand that the Old must win or that the New must win. The point is that no single truth satisfied me—and this is well founded in the Igbo world view. No single man can be correct all the time, no single idea can be totally correct.\" His perspective is reflected in the words of Ikem, a character in \"Anthills of the Savannah\": \"whatever you are is never enough; you must find a way to accept something, however small, from the other to make you whole and to save you from the mortal sin of righteousness and extremism.\" And in a 1996 interview, Achebe said: \"Belief in either radicalism or orthodoxy is too simplified a way of viewing things  ... Evil is never all evil; goodness on the other hand is often tainted with selfishness.\"\n\nThe gender roles of men and women, as well as societies' conceptions of the associated concepts, are frequent themes in Achebe's writing. He has been criticised as a sexist author, in response to what many call the uncritical depiction of traditionally patriarchal Igbo society, where the most masculine men take numerous wives, and women are beaten regularly. Paradoxically, Igbo society immensely values individual achievement but also sees the ownership over or acquisition of women as a signifier of success. As seen in \"Things Fall Apart\", Igbo society condemns violence but Okonkwo's ability to control 'his' women is inextricably connected to his dignity. Thus, women are automatically disenfranschised in terms of achieving high status related to personal achievement. Others suggest that Achebe is merely representing the limited gendered vision of the characters, and they note that in his later works, he tries to demonstrate the inherent dangers of excluding women from society. It is also suggested that Achebe purposefully created exaggerated gender binaries in order to render Igbo history recognizable to international readers. Still others suggest that reading Achebe through a womanist lens enables an understanding of Igbo conceptions of gender complementarity. Womanism is \"an afrocentric concept forged out of global feminism to analyze the condition of Black African women\" that acknowledges the patriarchal oppression of women, but also highlights the resistance and dignity of African women. As the representation of Igbo society and kinship structures in novels such as \"Things Fall Apart\" differs considerably from the work of African feminist anthropology, the representation should not be taken literally; rather, the reader should consider the roles of both women and men as intentionally stark and in opposition. In any case, a careful reading of Achebe paradoxically recognizes the hyperbolic representation of gender politics in Igbo society, while acknowledging the necessary nuance that gives Achebe's women some agency and prominence.\n\nIn \"Things Fall Apart\", Okonkwo's furious manhood overpowers everything \"feminine\" in his life, including his own conscience. For example, when he feels bad after being forced to kill his adopted son, he asks himself: \"When did you become a shivering old woman?\" It is also argued that one's chi, or personal god, is the 'mother within'. This understanding further demonstrates how Okonkwo's hypermasculinity corrupts his conscience, as his contempt for his own mother and other women prevents him from being in harmony with his chi. He views all things feminine as distasteful, in part because they remind him of his father's laziness and cowardice. His father was considered an \"agbala\"—a word that refers to a man without title, but is also synonymous with 'woman'. Thus, Okonkwo not only regrets his father's lack of success, but attributes it to a lack of masculinity. Okonkwo's feminization of all things lacking success or power is a common theme throughout the novel. His obsession with maleness is fuelled by an intense fear of femaleness, which he expresses through physical and verbal abuse of his wives, his violence towards his community, his constant worry that his son Nwoye is not manly enough, and his wish that his daughter Ezinma had been born a boy. The women in the novel, meanwhile, are obedient, quiet, and absent from positions of authority – despite the fact that Igbo women were traditionally involved in village leadership. Nevertheless, the need for feminine balance is highlighted by Ani, the earth goddess, and the extended discussion of \"Nneka\" (\"Mother is supreme\") in chapter fourteen. Ekwefi's perseverance and love for Ezinma, despite her many miscarriages, is seen as a tribute to Igbo womanhood, which is typically defined by motherhood. Okonkwo's defeat is seen by some as a vindication of the need for a balancing feminine ethos. Some have also argued that all of Okonkwo's failures are tied to his contempt and fear of women and his inability to form quality personal relationships with the women in his life—his wives, his children, and his own mother. Achebe has expressed frustration at frequently being misunderstood on this point, saying that \"I want to sort of scream that \"Things Fall Apart\" is on the side of women  ... And that Okonkwo is paying the penalty for his treatment of women; that all his problems, all the things he did wrong, can be seen as offenses against the feminine.\" Indeed, it is argued that Okonkwo's violent and vehement anti-women position is the exception, not the norm, within his community of Umuofia and the wider Igbo society. Still, post-colonial African writing is intensely male-centred, a phenomenon that is not alleviated by the frequent trope of the African woman as the \"embodiment of the male writer's vision for the new Africa\". It is argued that even when women and their lives are more centrally depicted in literature, the male writer continues to be the visionary while the woman is the \"sign\" of changes to come.\n\nAchebe's first central female character in a novel is Beatrice Nwanyibuife in \"Anthills of the Savannah\". As an independent woman in the city, Beatrice strives for the balance that Okonkwo lacked so severely. She refutes the notion that she needs a man, and slowly learns about Idemili, a goddess balancing the aggression of male power. Although the final stages of the novel show her functioning in a nurturing mother-type role, Beatrice remains firm in her conviction that women should not be limited to such capacities.\n\nAchebe has been called \"the father of modern African writing\" and Africa's greatest storyteller, and many books and essays have been written about his work over the past fifty years. In 1992 he became the first living writer to be represented in the Everyman's Library collection published by Alfred A. Knopf. His 60th birthday was celebrated at the University of Nigeria by \"an international Who's Who in African Literature\". One observer noted: \"Nothing like it had ever happened before in African literature anywhere on the continent.\"\n\nAchebe provided a \"blueprint\" for African writers of succeeding generations. In 1982, he was awarded an honorary degree from the University of Kent. At the ceremony, professor Robert Gibson said that the Nigerian writer \"is now revered as Master by the younger generation of African writers and it is to him they regularly turn for counsel and inspiration.\" Even outside of Africa, his impact resonates strongly in literary circles. Novelist Margaret Atwood called him \"a magical writer – one of the greatest of the twentieth century\". Poet Maya Angelou lauded \"Things Fall Apart\" as a book wherein \"all readers meet their brothers, sisters, parents and friends and themselves along Nigerian roads\". Nelson Mandela, recalling his time as a political prisoner, once referred to Achebe as a writer \"in whose company the prison walls fell down\", and that his work \"Things Fall Apart\" inspired him to continue the struggle to end apartheid. Nobel laureate Toni Morrison has noted that Achebe's work inspired her to become a writer and \"sparked her love affair with African literature\".\n\nAchebe was the recipient of over 30 honorary degrees from universities in England, Scotland, Canada, South Africa, Nigeria and the United States, including Dartmouth College, Harvard, and Brown University. He was awarded the Commonwealth Poetry Prize, an Honorary Fellowship of the American Academy of Arts and Letters (1982), a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (2002), the Nigerian National Order of Merit (Nigeria's highest honour for academic work), the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade, the Man Booker International Prize 2007 and the 2010 Dorothy and Lillian Gish Prize. He was appointed Goodwill Ambassador to the United Nations Population Fund in 1999.\n\nHe twice refused the Nigerian honour \"Commander of the Federal Republic\", in 2004 and 2011, saying:\n\nI have watched particularly the chaos in my own state of Anambra where a small clique of renegades, openly boasting its connections in high places, seems determined to turn my homeland into a bankrupt and lawless fiefdom. I am appalled by the brazenness of this clique and the silence, if not connivance, of the Presidency.\n\nDespite his scholarly achievements and the global importance of his work, Achebe never received a Nobel Prize, which some observers viewed as unjust. When Wole Soyinka was awarded the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature, Achebe joined the rest of Nigeria in celebrating the first African ever to win the prize. He lauded Soyinka's \"stupendous display of energy and vitality\", and said he was \"most eminently deserving of any prize\". In 1988 Achebe was asked by a reporter for \"Quality Weekly\" how he felt about never winning a Nobel Prize; he replied: \"My position is that the Nobel Prize is important. But it is a European prize. It's not an African prize  ... Literature is not a heavyweight championship. Nigerians may think, you know, this man has been knocked out. It's nothing to do with that.\"\n\nOn 16 November 2017, Google showed a Doodle in Nigeria and the U.S. for Chinua Achebe's 87th birthday.\n\nNovels\n\nShort stories\n\nPoetry\n\nEssays, criticism, non-fiction and political commentary\nChildren's books\n\n"}
{"id": "412839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=412839", "title": "Classical pantheism", "text": "Classical pantheism\n\nClassical Pantheism, as defined by Charles Hartshorne in 1953, is the theological deterministic philosophies of pantheists such as Baruch Spinoza and the Stoics. Hartshorne sought to distinguish panentheism, which rejects determinism, from deterministic pantheism.\n\nThe term has also been used to mean Pantheism in the classical Greek and Roman era, or archetypal pantheism as variously defined by different authors.\n\nThis usage of the term Classical Pantheism was first presented by Charles Hartshorne in 1953, and by others discussing his presentation. In making his case for panentheism, Hartshorne sought to distinguish panentheism, which rejects determinism, from deterministic pantheism.\n\nThe term \"pantheism\" is derived from Greek words pan (πᾶν, \"all\") and theos (θεός, \"God\"), together meaning \"All-God\" or \"All is God.\" It is often associated with monism, the view that reality is a single thing.\n\nThe \"Encyclopedia of Religion\" refers to this form of Pantheism as an \"extreme monism,\" stating that in Classical Pantheism, \"God decides or determines everything, including our supposed decisions.\"\nOther examples of deterministic-inclined pantheisms include the views of Ralph Waldo Emerson, Ernst Haeckel, and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel.\n\nThe following quotations illustrate Hartshorne's concept of Classical Pantheism:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1069961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069961", "title": "Conimbricenses", "text": "Conimbricenses\n\nThe Conimbricenses were the Jesuits of the University of Coimbra in Coimbra, Portugal.\n\nThe Conimbricenses were Jesuits who took over the intellectual leadership of the Roman Catholic world from the Dominicans at the end of the 16th century. Notable Conimbricenses include Luis de Molina (1535–1600) and Francisco Suárez (1548–1617).\n\nThe Coimbra Commentaries, also known as the Conimbricenses, are a group of 11 books on Aristotle (only 8 can be called commentaries). The names of 200 Jesuits, including those of professors and students, appeared repeatedly on the college registries. From the late 16th to the early 17th centuries, the university produced voluminous commentaries on Aristotle's philosophical writings. The commentaries were, in fact, dictated to the students by the professors and so were not intended for publication. After they were published anyway, to interpret and disown incorrect and unauthorized editions, Claudio Acquaviva, the General of the Society of Jesus, assigned Pedro da Fonseca, the provincial of the Portuguese province, the task of supervising the revision of the commentaries for authorized publication. Fonseca was called \"the Aristotle of Portugal\" by Charles George Herbermann in his \"Catholic Encyclopedia.\"\n\nThe treatises appeared in the following order:\n\n\nA foreword prefixed the last treatise and disowned any connection with the work published at Frankfurt in 1604 and claiming to be the \"Commentarii Conimbricenses\". It reads in part, \"Before we could finish the task entrusted to us of editing our Logic, to which we were bound by many promises, certain German publishers fraudulently brought out a work professing to be from us, abounding in errors and inaccuracies which were really their own. They also substituted for our commentaries certain glosses gotten furtively. It is true these writings thirty years previously were the work of one of our professors not indeed intended for publication. They were the fruit of his zeal and he never dreamed they would appear in print\".\n\nThe last treatise was prepared for printing by Father Sebastian Couto. The eight parts formed five quarto volumes in wide circulation and appeared in many editions. The best known were those of Lyon, Lisbon and Cologne. The Commentaries are in Latin and are supplemented by reliable explanations of the text and an exhaustive discussion of the Aristotelian system.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "157212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157212", "title": "Consciousness Explained", "text": "Consciousness Explained\n\nConsciousness Explained is a 1991 book by the American philosopher Daniel Dennett, in which the author offers an account of how consciousness arises from interaction of physical and cognitive processes in the brain.\n\nDennett puts forward a \"multiple drafts\" model of consciousness, suggesting that there is no single central place (a \"Cartesian theater\") where conscious experience occurs; instead there are \"various events of content-fixation occurring in various places at various times in the brain\". The brain consists of a \"bundle of semi-independent agencies\"; when \"content-fixation\" takes place in one of these, its effects may propagate so that it leads to the utterance of one of the sentences that make up the story in which the central character is one's \"self\". Dennett's view of consciousness is that it is the apparently serial account for the brain's underlying \"parallelism\".\n\nOne of Dennett's more controversial claims is that qualia do not (and cannot) exist as qualia are described to be. Dennett's main argument is that the various properties attributed to qualia by philosophers—qualia are supposed to be incorrigible, ineffable, private, directly accessible and so on—are incompatible, so the notion of qualia is incoherent. The non-existence of qualia would mean that there is no hard problem of consciousness, and \"philosophical zombies\", which are supposed to act like a human in every way while somehow lacking qualia, cannot exist. So, as Dennett wryly notes, he is committed to the belief that we are all p-zombies (if you define the term p-zombie as functionally identical to a human being without any additional non-material aspects)—adding that his remark is very much open to misinterpretation.\n\nDennett claims that our brains hold only a few salient details about the world, and that this is the only reason we are able to function at all. Thus, we do not store elaborate pictures in short-term memory, as this is not necessary and would consume valuable computing power. Rather, we log what has changed and assume the rest has stayed the same, with the result that we miss some details, as demonstrated in various experiments and illusions, some of which Dennett outlines. Research subsequent to Dennett's book indicates that some of his postulations were more conservative than expected. A year after \"Consciousness Explained\" was published, Dennett noted \"I wish in retrospect that I'd been more daring, since the effects are stronger than I claimed\". Since then, examples continue to accumulate of the illusory nature of our visual world.\n\nA key philosophical method is heterophenomenology, in which the verbal or written reports of subjects are treated as akin to a theorist's fiction—the subject's report is not questioned, but it is not assumed to be an incorrigible report about that subject's inner state. This approach allows the reports of the subject to be a datum in psychological research, thus circumventing the limits of classical behaviorism.\n\nDennett says that only a theory that explained conscious events in terms of unconscious events could explain consciousness at all: \"To explain is to explain \"away\"\".\n\nCritics of Dennett's approach, such as David Chalmers and Thomas Nagel, argue that Dennett's argument misses the point of the inquiry by merely redefining consciousness as an external property and ignoring the subjective aspect completely. This has led detractors to nickname the book \"Consciousness Ignored\" and \"Consciousness Explained Away\". Dennett and his eliminative materialist supporters, however, respond that the aforementioned \"subjective aspect\" of conscious minds is nonexistent, an unscientific remnant of commonsense \"folk psychology\", and that his alleged redefinition is the only coherent description of consciousness.\n\nHowever, John Searle argues that Dennett, who insists that discussing subjectivity is nonsense because it is unscientific and science presupposes objectivity, is making a category error. Searle argues that the goal of science is to establish and validate statements which are epistemically objective (i.e., whose truth can be discovered and evaluated by any interested party), but are not necessarily ontologically objective. Searle calls any value judgment epistemically subjective. Thus, \"McKinley is prettier than Everest\" is epistemically subjective, whereas \"McKinley is higher than Everest\" is epistemically objective. In other words, the latter statement is evaluable (in fact, falsifiable) by an understood (\"background\") criterion for mountain height, like \"the summit is so many meters above sea level\". No such criteria exist for prettiness. Searle says that, in Dennett's view, there is no consciousness in addition to the computational features, because that is all that consciousness amounts to for him: mere effects of a von Neumann(esque) virtual machine implemented in a parallel architecture and therefore implies that conscious states are illusory. In contrast, Searle asserts that, \"where consciousness is concerned, the existence of the appearance is the reality.\"\n\nSearle said further: To put it as clearly as I can: in his book, \"Consciousness Explained\", Dennett denies the existence of consciousness. He continues to use the word, but he means something different by it. For him, it refers only to third-person phenomena, not to the first-person conscious feelings and experiences we all have. For Dennett there is no difference between us humans and complex zombies who lack any inner feelings, because we are all just complex zombies. ...I regard his view as self-refuting because it denies the existence of the data which a theory of consciousness is supposed to explain...Here is the paradox of this exchange: I am a conscious reviewer consciously answering the objections of an author who gives every indication of being consciously and puzzlingly angry. I do this for a readership that I assume is conscious. How then can I take seriously his claim that consciousness does not really exist?\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48228967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48228967", "title": "Dario Salas Sommer", "text": "Dario Salas Sommer\n\nDarío Salas Sommer (; born 4 March 1935 in Santiago, Chile) is a Chilean philosopher, scientist and humanist. He is known especially for his exploration of moral aspects of human life and personal development, described in his notable books ‘Morals of the XXI Century’ and ‘Cosmic Currency, the Greatest Wealth’\n\nDr. Dario Salas Sommer was born in Santiago, Chile, on March 4, 1935. He is the grandson of the distinguished Chilean educator Darío Salas Díaz. In 1970, he founded the Institute for Hermetic Philosophy headquartered in Santiago, Chile, and represented in Argentina, Spain, the United States and Russia. Dr. Salas Sommer has given more than 2,000 lectures, delivered speeches at notable conferences, and been interviewed on TV and in magazines around the world.\n\nDario Salas Sommer has been committed to the progress of humanity and to the internal development of the human being for more than four decades. He has discovered a scientifically-based morality called \"moral physics,\" which is based on a series of maxims, in which the underlying assumption is that morals are laws of nature.\n\nThe existence of objective morality has been debated since the times of Aristotle and Plato. Dr. Dario Salas Sommer puts forth the concept that ‘moral laws’ exist for both individuals and nations. Who follows the moral rules will prosper and who violates them will be punished. In his book ‘Moral of the 21st Century’ he proves that acting in accordance with the principles of morality is not only fair, but also beneficial. This book, originally written in Spanish, has already been translated into English, Arabic, German, Russian and Chinese.\n\n‘\"Personally, I have had the privilege to scientifically prove how certain moral aberrations immediately create a decline in vital energy, which I explain and support in my book\"’, stated Dario Salas Sommer. This ideas reflecting ‘moral universalism’ can be found among other contemporary philosophers, among them Noam Chomsky and Jurgen Habermas. Dario Salas Sommer, however, gives a deeper view on human morality in connection with person, nature and consciousness. In his books the practical methods of personal development are given, which is why Sommer’s approach has been called by the author ‘operative philosophy’, or ‘practical philosophy’. Through daily actions, one can harmoniously unify spirituality, love, money, happiness and wisdom as a result.\n\nDario Salas Sommer is the founder of Fundacion Bolivariana Latinoamericana, a non-profit foundation created to support and develop educational and cultural projects for youth. The foundation supports scientific and academic cooperation between universities of Latin America and Eurasia, in ecology, social science and human development.\n\nDr. Dario Salas Sommer continuously participates, online and in person, in global cultural and scientific events. In 2007, he gave a speech at the Global Warming and Climate Change Summit (Calentamiento Global y Cambio Climático: La Hora de Actuar ha Llegado) in Santiago, Chile, dedicated to the environmental crisis affecting our planet and attended by the President of Chile Michelle Bachelet. During this notable event, he met with US Vice President Al Gore. “\"All of our problems, including Global Warming, have their origin in this fragmented vision of reality that makes us feel as if we owned Nature, instead of being a part of it”, the researcher points, “The truth is, an event as important as global warming cannot take place without making any connection to the emotions, actions and thoughts of the human species.\"”\n\nIn Summer 2015, Dr. Dario Salas Sommer drew public attention to the importance of moral values in world politics. During the summit of the BRICS countries in Ufa, Russia, he addressed the leaders of the world fastest-growing nations, strongly urging them to remember the fundamental importance of moral principles in global politics and finance. Dario Salas Sommer has a strong.recognition in Russia where he is a well-known figure (he is awarded with the Member of the Order of Friendship) The book 'Morals for 21st Century', focused on ethics and morality, is studied by the students in the universities of BRICS countries. Dario Salas Sommer has a strong recognition across the world, and his works received positive comments from state leaders of China and India.\n\nDuring the international conference on climate change in Paris (COP21, December 2015) the Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-Moon noted the importance of the philosopher's ideas regarding the world leaders' moral responsibility. In September 2016, the book 'Morals for the 21st Century' has been introduced at the United Nations General Assembly and received by world leaders as a symbol of reviving moral values in global affairs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7515615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515615", "title": "Day-year principle", "text": "Day-year principle\n\nThe day-year principle, year-day principle or year-for-a-day principle is a method of interpretation of Bible prophecy in which the word \"day\" in prophecy is considered to be symbolic of a \"year\" of actual time. It is used principally by the historicist school of prophetic interpretation. It is held by the Seventh-day Adventist Church, Jehovah's Witnesses, some Pentecostals and the Christadelphians. The day-year principle is also used by the Bahá'í Faith, as well as in astrological prediction techniques, otherwise known as \"primary directions\".\n\nProponents of the principle, such as the Seventh-day Adventists, claim that it has three primary precedents in Scripture:\nWhile not listed as primary precedent by the proponents, a direct reference to the day for a year concept is established in Genesis.\n\nJon Paulien has defended the principle from a systematic theology perspective, not strictly just from the Bible.\n\nThis view was recognized by the Jews as seen in Daniel 9:24–27, and as seen in Jesus' use of the day-year principle in Luke 13:31–33, and in the early church. \nThe day-year principle was first used in Christian exposition in 380 AD by Ticonius, who interpreted the three and a half days of Revelation 11:9 as three and a half years, writing 'three days and a half; that is, three years and six months' ('dies tres et dimidium; id est annos tres et menses sex'). In the 5th century Faustus of Riez gave the same interpretation of Revelation 11:9, writing 'three and a half days which correspond to three years and six months' ('Tres et dimidius dies tribus annis et sex mensibus respondent), and in c. 550 Primasius also gave the same interpretation, writing 'it is possible to understand the three days and a half as three years and six months' ('Tres dies et dimidium possumus intelligere tres annos et sex menses'). The same interpretation of Revelation 11:9 was given by the later Christian expositors Bede (730 AD), as well as Anspert, Arethas, Haymo, and Berengaudus (all of the ninth century). Primasius appears to have been the first to appeal directly to previous Biblical passages in order to substantiate the principle, referring to Numbers 14:34 in support of his interpretation of the three and a half days of Revelation 11:9. Haymo and Bruno Astensis \"justify it by the parallel case of Ezekiel lying on his side 390 days, to signify 390 years ; — i. e. a day for a year. — \". \nProtestant Reformers were well established on the day/year principle and it was also accepted by many Christian groups, ministers, and theologians.\n\nOthers who expounded the Historicist interpretation are John Wycliffe, John Knox, William Tyndale, Martin Luther, John Calvin, Ulrich Zwingli, Philip Melanchthon, Isaac Newton, Jan Hus, John Foxe, John Wesley, Jonathan Edwards, George Whitefield, Charles Finney, C. H. Spurgeon, Matthew Henry, Adam Clarke, Albert Barnes, and Bishop Thomas Newton as exponents of this school.\n\nDaniel 9 contains the Prophecy of Seventy Weeks.\n\nHistoricist interpreters have usually understood the \"time, times and half a time\" (i.e. 1+2+0.5=3.5), \"1,260 days\" and \"42 months\" mentioned in Daniel and Revelation to be references to represent a period of 1260 years (based on the 360 day Jewish year multiplied by 3.5).\n\nThese time periods occur eight times in scripture:\n\n\nHistoricists usually believe the \"1,260 days\" spanned the Middle Ages and concluded within the early modern or modern era. Although many dates have been proposed for the start and finish of the \"1,260 days\", certain time spans have proven to be more popular than others. The majority of historicists throughout history have identified the \"1,260 days\" as being fulfilled by one or more of the following time spans and identify the Papal Office as the Antichrist and culmination of the Great Apostasy:\n\n\nThe Millerites, like the earlier Bible students of the Reformation and post-Reformation eras, and the Seventh-day Adventists,\n\nRobert Fleming writing in 1701 (\"The Rise and Fall of Rome Papal\") stated that the 1260-year period should commence with Pope Paul I becoming a temporal pope in AD 758 which would expire in 2018 by counting Julian years, or the year 2000 if counting prophetic (360 day) years.\n\nBritish Theologian Adam Clarke writing in 1825 stated that the 1260-year period should commence with 755 AD, the actual year Pepin the Short invaded Lombard territory, resulting in the Pope's elevation from a subject of the Byzantine Empire to an independent head of state. The Donation of Pepin, which first occurred in 754 and again in 756 gave to the Pope temporal power over the Papal States. However, his introductory comments on Daniel 7 added 756 as an alternative commencement date. In April of that year, Pepin, accompanied by Pope Stephen II entered northern Italy from France, forcing the Lombard King Aistulf to lift his siege of Rome, and return to Pavia. Following Aistulf's capitulation, Pepin remained in Italy until finalizing his Donations. Based on this, 19th century commentators anticipate the end of the Papacy in 2016:\n\nOf the five areas of the Bible which mention this timeline, only Revelation 11:9-12 adds a brief 3½ more years to the end of this 1260-year period. If added to 2016, this would bring us to autumn of 2019 or spring of 2020 for the commencement of the Eternal Kingdom. However, far more attention is paid by historicists to 2016 as the final end of the Papacy and the commencement of the Millennial rule than there is to 2019. This may be due in part, to uncertainty as to who or what the two witnesses of the Book of Revelation represent. But for those 17th to 19th century historicists adhering to the day year principle who also predicted a literal restoration of the unconverted Jews in their original homeland, the fall of the Papacy immediately precedes the rapid conversion of the Jews. The two events are closely linked, with the former enabling the latter.\n\nThe year 756 AD is also thought to occur 666 years from John's writing of the Book of Revelation. The verse in Daniel 8:25 which reads \"...but he shall be broken without hand\" is usually understood to mean that the destruction of the \"little horn\" or Papacy with not be caused by any human action. Volcanic activity is described as the means by which Rome will be overthrown. The following excerpt is from the 5th edition (1808) of the Rev. David Simpson's book \"A Plea for Religion and the Sacred Writings\":\n\nThough the end of the 1260 years will be marked by dramatic events, it will not instantly remove all the governments of the world. The Messianic Kingdom will be established in place of the former Roman Empire, and continue to expand until it has enveloped the remaining countries. The following is an excerpt from \"the Covenanter\", a Reformed Presbyterian publication (1857):\n\nWhile Daniel 2:35 makes reference to the various world powers (represented as various metals) being “broken to pieces together”, the previous verse (v.34) portrays the Eternal Kingdom coming as “a stone cut from a mountain without hands” and striking a statue (symbolizing the successive world empires) on its feet first. Most adherents of the day-year principle, interpret these feet “that were of iron and clay,” as denoting the nations descended from and occupying areas of the former Roman Empire. The dominions of all the empires and nations are expected to be crushed simultaneously, but the end of “life” or existence of the Roman derived countries will precede that of the other nations of the world.\n\nThe length of time for this worldwide expansion to complete is indicated in Daniel 7:12, which adds \"“As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time.”\" Henry Folbigg (1869) elaborated on this verse:\n\nPrior to Adam Clarke (Methodist), Jonathan Edwards, an Evangelical Reformed (Congregational) theologian commented on the views of his more well-known predecessors and contemporaries, and wrote that Sir Isaac Newton, Robert Fleming (Presbyterian), Moses Lowman (Presbyterian), Phillip Doddridge (Congregational), and Bishop Thomas Newton (Anglican), were in agreement that the 1,260 timeline should be calculated from the year 756 AD.\n\nF.A. Cox (Congregationalist) confirmed that this was the view of Sir Isaac Newton and others, including himself:\n\nThomas Williams also acknowledged that this was the predominant view among the leading Protestant theologians of his time:\n\nThe timeline was also printed in other denominational publications including Lutheran, Reformed, Baptist, Unitarian (Socinian), and in countries with sizeable Protestant populations such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Netherlands and the United States.\n\nCatholicon, a monthly Catholic publication, implied (1816) that this timeline was more accurate than the other predictions of the time:\nIn 1870 the newly formed Kingdom of Italy annexed the remaining Papal States, depriving the Pope of his temporal rule. Unaware that Papal rule would be restored, (albeit on a greatly diminished scale) in 1929 as head of the Vatican City state, the historicist view that the Papacy is the Antichrist rapidly declined in popularity as one of the defining characteristics of the Antichrist (i.e. that he would also be a political temporal power at the time of the return of Jesus) was no longer met.\n\nIn spite of its one time predominance, the 2016 prediction was largely forgotten and no major Protestant denomination currently subscribes to this timeline.\n\nThe distinctly Seventh-day Adventist doctrine of the divine investigative judgment beginning in 1844, based on the 2300 day prophecy of , relies on the day-year principle. The 2300 days are understood to represent 2300 years stretching from 457 BC, the calculated starting date of the 70 weeks prophecy based on the 3rd decree found in Ezra, to 1844.\n\nThe prophecy of 2300 days in Verse 14 plays an important role in Seventh-day Adventist eschatology. The Seventh-day Adventist Church traces its origins to the William Miller, who predicted that the second coming of Jesus would occur in 1844 by assuming that the \"cleansing of the Sanctuary\" of Daniel 8:14 meant the destruction of the earth, and applying the day-year principle.\n\nThe prophetic time always uses the day-year principle, thus \"2300 days\" was understood to be 2300 years. Starting at the same time as the Prophecy of Seventy Weeks found in Chapter 9, on the grounds that the \"70 weeks\" were \"decreed\" (actually \"cut off\") for the Jewish people from the 2300-day prophecy. This beginning year is calculated to be 457 BC (see details here), then the end of the 2300 years would have been in 1844.\n\nAlthough the Millerites originally thought that 1844 represented the end of the world, those who later became Seventh-day Adventist reached the conclusion that 1844 marked the beginning of a divine pre-advent judgment called \"the cleansing of the sanctuary\". It is intimately related to the history of the Seventh-day Adventist Church and was described by the church's prophet and pioneer Ellen G. White as one of the pillars of Adventist belief.\n\nBaha'is also recognize the Day-Year Principle and use it in understanding prophecy from the Bible. In the book, \"Some Answered Questions\", `Abdu'l-Bahá outlines a similar calculation for the 2300-year prophecy as given in the Christian section above. By applying the day-year principle, he demonstrates that the fulfillment of the vision of Daniel occurred in the year 1844, the year of the Báb's declaration in Persia i.e. the starting date of the Baha'i Faith. This is the same year that the Millerites predicted for the return of Christ, and Baha'is believe that William Miller's methodologies were indeed sound.\n\nThe prophecy states \"For two thousand three hundred days; then the sanctuary shall be cleansed.\" (Daniel 8:14)\nBaha'is understand the \"cleansing of the sanctuary\" to be the restoration of religion to a state in which it is guided by authorities appointed by its Founder rather than by people who have appointed themselves as the authority. (The leaders of Sunni Islam were self-appointed; the first 12 leaders of Shia Islam had been appointed through a chain of succession going back to Muhammad, but that chain ended after 260 years—see next section below.)\nThus Baha'is believe that divinely-guided religion was re-established in 1844 with the revelation of the Báb, continued through the revelation of the Baha'i founder (Baha'u'llah) and continues today through their Universal House of Justice, elected according to the method described by Baha'u'llah.\n\nAlthough Christians have generally expected their Messiah to appear somewhere in Judeo-Christian lands, Baha'is have noted that Daniel himself was in Persia at the time the prophecy was made. He was in Shushan (modern day Susa or Shūsh, Iran), when he received his prophetic vision (Daniel 8:2). The Bab appeared 2300 years later in Shiraz, about 300 miles away from where Daniel's vision occurred.\n\nThe year 1260 was significant in Shia Islam, independently of any Biblical reference. The Shia branch of Islam followed a series of 12 Imams, whose authority they traced back to Muhammad. The last of these disappeared in the Islamic year 260 AH. According to a reference in the Qur'an, authority was to be re-established after 1,000 years. For this reason, there was widespread anticipation among Shi'ites that the 12th Imam would return in Islamic year 1260 AH. This is also the year 1844 AD in the Christian calendar. Thus both the Millerites and the Shi'ites were expecting their Promised One to appear in the same year, although for entirely independent reasons.\n\nTherefore, Baha'is understand the 1260-day prophecies in both Daniel and in the Book of Revelation as referring to the year 1260 of the Islamic calendar which corresponds to the year 1844 AD, the year the Báb pronounced himself to be a Messenger of God and the year that the Baha'i Faith began.\n\nBaha'is have also applied the Day-Year principle to Rev. 9:15 which states, \"And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.\"\n\nThe slaying of \"the third part of men\" was interpreted by some Christian scholars to refer to the fall of the Eastern Orthodox part of Christianity, centered on Constantinople in the year 1453 AD. (The other two-thirds being the Western Christian world, centered on Rome, and the southern part of the Christian world in North Africa, which was already under the dominion of Islam long before 1453.) Using the day-year principle, the formula gives 1+30+360 days = 391 days = 391 years after 1453. Adding 391 years to 1453 brings the prediction again to 1844, the same year as the 2300 day prophecy of Daniel 8.\n\nTheoretically, this prophecy could be taken one step further, since there are accurate records of the dates of the start and end of battle for Constantinople. If \"the hour\" is taken to be 1/24th of a day, then, by the day-year principle, it would equate to 1/24 of a year i.e. 15 days. Since the battle of Constantinople lasted for several weeks, it is not possible to pin down the exact starting day of this 391-1/24-year prophecy, but if the formula is followed to this degree, it suggests the prophecy's fulfillment should have occurred sometime in May or June 1844.\n\nIn addition, Baha'is have applied the Day-Year principle to the two prophecies at the end of the last chapter of Daniel concerning the 1290 days (Dan 12:11) and the 1335 days (Dan 12:12). The 1290 days is understood as a reference to the 1290 years from the open declaration of Muhammad to the open declaration of Baha'u'llah. The 1335 days is understood to be a reference to the firm establishment of Islam in 628 AD to the firm establishment of the Baha'i Faith (the election of its Universal House of Justice) in 1963 AD.\n\n\n\nSupportive:\n\nUndetermined:\n"}
{"id": "51873283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51873283", "title": "Deific-decree", "text": "Deific-decree\n\nThe deific decree delusion is a defense in a criminal case in which a person committed a crime in the belief that God ordered them to do it. It is an example of a command hallucination. The perpetrator is legally insane because they are incapable of distinguishing right from wrong.\n"}
{"id": "1685298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1685298", "title": "Erie doctrine", "text": "Erie doctrine\n\nThe \"Erie\" doctrine is a fundamental legal doctrine of civil procedure in the United States which mandates that a federal court sitting in diversity jurisdiction (or in general, when hearing state law claims in contexts like supplemental jurisdiction or adversarial proceedings in bankruptcy) must apply state substantive law to resolve claims under state law.\n\nThe doctrine follows from the Supreme Court landmark decision in \"Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins\" (1938). The case overturned \"Swift v. Tyson\", which allowed federal judges sitting in a state to ignore the common law local decisions of state courts in the same state, in cases based on diversity jurisdiction.\n\nThere are two main objectives of the \"Erie\" decision: (1) to discourage forum shopping among litigants, and (2) to avoid inequitable administration of the laws. Broadly speaking, the second objective is sometimes referred to as \"vertical uniformity\" and is rooted in the idea that in a given state, the outcome of the litigation should not be grossly different just because a litigant filed a claim in a state court rather than a federal court or vice versa.\n\nThe \"Erie\" doctrine today applies regardless of how the federal court may hear a state claim. Whether the federal court encounters a state law issue in diversity jurisdiction, supplemental jurisdiction, or bankruptcy jurisdiction, the federal court must honor state common law when deciding state law issues.\n\nIn effect, when the U.S. Constitution does not control and Congress has not legislated (or cannot legislate) on a topic, then the laws of the states necessarily govern and state judge-made rules are equally binding on the federal courts as state statutes.\n\nThe federal court must determine if either 1) state law is clear as to the case in controversy, or 2) if not, then has the state's highest court ruled specifically on a similar case. If so, the state law or court ruling must be followed. But if not, then the federal court must determine how the state's highest court would potentially rule on a matter: for example, it may look to state appellate courts to see how they ruled, and if the state chose not to hear further appeals, the federal court could determine that the high court agreed with the appellate courts. The determination is called an Erie guess, though the term \"guess\" is a misnomer as the federal court must make a reasoned determination in its ruling.\n\nAlternatively though, the court may elect to certify the question to the state's highest court for a ruling on state law in the matter. Some states, however, do not allow Federal District Courts to certify questions, only the Supreme Court or Federal Circuit Courts of Appeals.\n\nThe \"Erie\" case involved a fundamental question of federalism and the jurisdiction of federal courts in the United States. In 1789, the Congress passed a law still in effect today called the Rules of Decision Act (), which states that the laws of a state furnish the rules of decision for a federal court sitting in that state. Thus, a federal court in Texas, hearing a case based on diversity (as opposed to a federal question), has to follow the laws of the applicable state in resolving a case before it.\n\nThe Supreme Court's decision in \"Swift v. Tyson\" had defined the laws of the state as meaning only laws passed by legislatures of that state (though Justice Joseph Story writing for the court suggested that federal courts should pay special attention to how the \"local tribunals\" of a state would resolve a dispute). Thus, on issues of \"general common law,\" a federal court was free to ignore decisions by a state's highest court.\n\nThe decision in \"Swift\" resulted in inconsistent judicial rulings in the same state on the same legal issue depending on whether a plaintiff brought a case in state or federal court. In one case, for example, \"Black and White Taxicab Co. v. Brown and Yellow Taxicab Co.\" 276 U.S. 518 (1928), the Brown and Yellow Cab Company, a Kentucky corporation, sought to create a business association with the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, where Brown and Yellow would have a monopoly on soliciting passengers of the railroad, effectively eliminating the competition, the Black and White Cab Co. Such an agreement was illegal under Kentucky common law, as interpreted by Kentucky's highest court. Brown and Yellow dissolved itself, reincorporated in Tennessee, and executed the agreement there, where such an agreement was legal, bringing suit against Black and White in a Kentucky federal court to prevent them from soliciting passengers. The federal court upheld the agreement, citing \"Swift\", and arguing that under general federal common law, the agreement was valid. If Brown and Yellow had brought suit in a Kentucky state court, the agreement would not have been upheld.\n\nThe decision in \"Erie\" involved a railroad accident. The plaintiff, Tompkins, was walking alongside Erie's railroad tracks in Pennsylvania when a train passed. An open door struck him and knocked him under the train, severing his arm. In most states, Tompkins could sue for negligence of the railroad and recover monetary damages for his loss. In Pennsylvania, however, Tompkins would have been considered a trespasser. He was not to recover for an ordinary negligence claim in the state court of Pennsylvania, because under the law of that state, a claimant had to show \"wanton\" negligence on part of the Defendant to recover.\n\nThus, Tompkins brought his case in federal court to avoid the unfavorable state law. He subsequently won. However, on appeal the Supreme Court held, in an opinion drafted by Justice Brandeis, that such decisions and inconsistent rulings based on a general federal common law were unconstitutional, and that decisions by a state supreme court were \"laws\" that federal courts were bound to follow under the \"Rule of Decision Act\". Brandeis noted that the Court felt that \"Swift\" allowed federal courts to make unconstitutional modifications of the substantive law of a state. He noted that it violated the right to equal protection under the law, although he did not mean it in the sense of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court overturned \"Swift\" on its own initiative, since the parties in \"Erie\" did not ask the Court to do so.\n\nSeveral later cases have added to the vague \"Erie\" decision (Brandeis cited no provision of the Constitution that \"Swift\" violated, although theoretically it might have violated the Tenth Amendment's reservation of powers to the state). Speaking generally, there are two approaches in determining whether a federal court will apply a state law: (1) the \"Hanna\" & Rules Enabling Act approach, per when there is a Federal Rule of Civil Procedure and statute that conflicts with a state law; and (2) the \"Byrd\"-\"Erie\" approach when there is not a conflict between a state and federal practice.\n\nThis approach suggests that unless there is a major countervailing federal policy that trumps the state practice, if ignoring the state law would lead to forum shopping by plaintiffs and unequal administration of the laws (like in \"Yellow Cab\" above), the court should apply the state law. In \"Byrd v. Blue Ridge Rural Electrical Cooperative, Inc.\", the Court decided that the federal policy allocating responsibilities between judge and jury, as embodied in the 7th Amendment of the US Constitution, outweighed the state rule requiring a judge to decide whether an employer was immune from suit. The main goal of the \"Erie\" decision was to prevent \"forum-shopping,\" a practice where plaintiffs choose a legal forum simply because of the probability of a more favorable ruling. The main problem with the decision is that sometimes there is simply no state law or practice on which a federal court may defer. Federal judges are left to guess how a state court would rule on a given legal question, and a state court is in no way bound by a federal decision interpreting their own state law.\n\nJustice Frankfurter in \"Guaranty Trust Co. v. York\", summarizes the main point of Erie differently... \n\nIn essence, the intent of that decision was to ensure that, in all cases where a federal court is exercising jurisdiction solely because of the diversity of citizenship of the parties, the outcome of the litigation in the federal court should be substantially the same, so far as legal rules determine the outcome of a litigation, as it would be if tried in a State court... \n\nThis suggests that Erie's main goal was to achieve equal protection under the law. One way that equal protection is intentionally disregarded would be through \"forum shopping,\" but the reduction of inequality was the main target of the doctrine.\n\nUnder the approach in \"Hanna v. Plumer\", the federal court of a state hearing a case based on diversity jurisdiction should apply state law in the event of conflict between state and federal law if the state law deals with substantive rights of state citizens. The Supreme Court has defined substantive rights as, \"rights conferred by the law to be protected and enforced by the adjective law of judicial procedure.\" An example of a substantive right would be a state law on fraud, which may vary widely in composition depending on the jurisdiction. If the state law is merely procedural, or relating merely to the form and mode of judicial operations, then the federal court does not have to apply the conflicting state law. However, the substance-procedure distinction is a generality as the Court rejected any test based upon \"litmus paper criterion.\" Thus, a choice between state and federal law must be made with reference to the underlying policy of the \"Erie\" decision. The Court announced a modification of the \"outcome-determinative\" test in \"York\", whereby the test must be applied in light of the twin aims of \"Erie,\" which are the discouragement of forum-shopping and avoidance of inequitable administration of the laws. Under this rule, state procedural law would not supplant federal procedural law if the differences in the outcome are nonsubstantial or trivial, fail to raise Equal Protection concerns, and are unlikely to influence the choice of forum.\n\nA recent Supreme Court case that addressed the \"Erie\" problem is \"Gasperini v. Center for Humanities\", . \"Gasperini\" is a post-\"Hanna\" decision addressing a conflict between state and federal law for review of jury verdicts. The plaintiff, a well-known artist and photographer from New York, sued a New York museum in federal court in New York, for damages arising from the loss of some photographs and slides he had loaned the museum. A jury found in his favor and awarded damages. The defendant appealed, and the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reduced the damages award on appeal. Gasperini appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nThe New York state provision, a \"tort reform\" measure, allowed reviewing appellate courts to overturn a jury verdict if it \"deviates materially from what would be reasonable compensation.\" Pursuant to this law, the Second Circuit applied the state's appellate standard of review. However, the Supreme Court stated that federal courts, bound by the reexamination clause of the Seventh Amendment, could overturn a jury's finding of fact only if it \"shocked the conscience.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court could have resolved the case by reading the Seventh Amendment broadly, and treating it as controlling in federal court. However, instead, the Court opted for what can be described as a compromise, holding that the federal court should apply the state's lower standard of review, but in a way that would not run afoul of the Seventh Amendment: instead of the federal appeals court reviewing the jury finding, the trial judge would assume the role.\n\n\"Gasperini\", and another recent \"Erie\"-area case, \"Semtek International Inc. v. Lockheed Martin Corp.\", have shown \"Erie\" has gone in a newer and even more complicated direction than the previous controlling cases, and that instead of selecting either federal or state law for a case, the federal court may be required to somehow blend federal and state law, depending on the issue. This is quite frustrating for those who wish to have a black-letter rule that will point them to the answer. However, the possibility of blending in \"Erie\" does not open up an infinitude of possibilities. In both \"Gasperini\" and \"Semtek\", the common thread is that the blending is done in a way that is calculated to advance the aims of \"Erie\" (and \"York\"): non-discrimination between litigants, and discouragement of forum shopping.\n"}
{"id": "18117167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18117167", "title": "Eschatological verification", "text": "Eschatological verification\n\nEschatological verification describes a process whereby a proposition can be verified after death. A proposition such as \"there is an afterlife\" is verifiable if true but not falsifiable if false (if it's false, the individual will not know it's false, because they have no state of being). The term is most commonly used in relation to God and the afterlife, although there may be other propositions - such as moral propositions - which may also be verified after death. \n\nJohn Hick has expressed the premise as an allegory of a quest to a Celestial City. In this parable, a theist and an atheist are both walking down the same road. The theist believes there is a destination, the atheist believes there is not. If they reach the destination, the theist will have been proven right; however, if there is no destination on an endless road, this can never be verified. This is an attempt to explain how a theist expects some form of life or existence after death and an atheist does not. They both have separate belief systems and live life accordingly, but logically one is right and the other is not. If the theist is right, he will be proven so when he arrives in the afterlife. However, if the atheist is right, they will simply both be dead and nothing will be verified.\n\nThis acts as a response to Verificationism. Under Hick's analogy claims about the afterlife are verifiable \"in principle\" because the truth becomes clear after death. To some extent it is therefore wrong to claim that religious language cannot be verified because it can (when you're dead).\n\n"}
{"id": "5131592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5131592", "title": "Guided meditation", "text": "Guided meditation\n\nGuided meditation is a process by which one or more participants meditate in response to the guidance provided by a trained practitioner or teacher, either in person or via a written text, sound recording, video, or audiovisual media comprising music or verbal instruction, or a combination of both.\n\nThe term \"guided meditation\" is most commonly used in clinical practice, scholarly research, and scientific investigation to signify an aggregate of integrated techniques. The most common and frequently used combination or synthesis comprises meditation music and receptive music therapy, guided imagery, relaxation, some form of meditative practice and mindfulness, and journaling. Hypnosis or hypnotherapeutic procedures may be included as part of an intervention. Psychotherapist Michael D. Yapko has shown the remarkable similarity between hypnotic procedures and guided meditation procedures.\n\nInvestigators, clinicians, and research authors frequently analyze and discuss the effects and efficacy of this intervention as a whole, with the result that it is often difficult to attribute positive or negative outcomes to any of the specific techniques that contribute to guided meditation. Furthermore, the term \"guided meditation\" is frequently used interchangeably with the terms \"guided imagery\" and sometimes with \"creative visualization\" in popular psychology and self-help literature, and to a lesser extent in scholarly and scientific publications. Consequently, understanding the nature, scope, application, and limitations of guided meditation requires it to be considered in context and relationship to the multiple techniques that are integral to its practice, allowing for variations in terminology.\n\nGuided meditation as an aggregate or synthesis of techniques including meditation music and receptive music therapy, guided imagery, relaxation, meditative praxis, and self-reflective diary-keeping or journaling has been shown to be effective in precipitating therapeutic, rehabilitative, and educational benefits when employed as an adjunct to primary clinical and instructional strategies, including as a means to lower levels of stress, minimize the frequency, duration, and intensity of asthmatic episodes, control and manage pain, develop coping skills, improve ability to carry out demanding tasks in exacting situations, decrease the incidence of insomnia, abate feelings of anger, reduce occurrences of negative or irrational thinking, assuage anxiety, raise levels of optimism, enhance physical and mental aptitude, and increase general feeling of well-being and self-reported quality of life.\n"}
{"id": "26040863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26040863", "title": "Integral theory (Ken Wilber)", "text": "Integral theory (Ken Wilber)\n\nIntegral theory is Ken Wilber's attempt to place a wide diversity of theories and thinkers into one single framework. It is portrayed as a \"theory of everything\" (\"the living Totality of matter, body, mind, soul, and spirit\"), trying \"to draw together an already existing number of separate paradigms into an interrelated network of approaches that are mutually enriching.\"\n\nWilber's integral theory has been applied by some in a limited range of domains. \"The Integral Institute\" publishes the \"Journal of Integral Theory and Practice\", and SUNY Press has published nine books in the \"SUNY series in Integral Theory.\" Wilber's ideas have mainly attracted attention in specific subcultures, and have been widely ignored in academia.\n\nThe concept is also referred to as integral approach, integral consciousness, integral culture, integral paradigm, integral philosophy, integral society, integral spirituality, and integral worldview.\n\nKen Wilber's \"Integral Theory\" started as early as the 1970s, with the publication of \"The Spectrum of Consciousness\", that attempted to synthesize eastern religious traditions with western structural stage theory, models of psychology development that describe human development as following a set course of stages of development.\n\nWilber's ideas have grown more and more inclusive over the years, incorporating ontology, epistemology, and methodology. Wilber, drawing on both Aurobindo's and Gebser's theories, as well as on the writings of many other authors, created a theory which he calls AQAL, \"All Quadrants All Levels\".\n\nThe adjective \"integral\" was first used in a spiritual context by Sri Aurobindo (1872–1950) from 1914 onward to describe his own spiritual teachings, which he referred to as \"Purna\" (Skt: \"Full\") Yoga. It appeared in \"The Synthesis of Yoga\", a book that was first published in serial form in the journal \"Arya\" and was revised several times since.\n\nSri Aurobindo's work has been described as Integral Vedanta, and psychology, as well as Integral Psychology (the term coined by Indra Sen) and the psychotherapy that emerges from it. His writings influenced others who used the term \"integral\" in more philosophical or psychological contexts.\n\nIn the teachings of Sri Aurobindo, integral yoga refers to the process of the union of all the parts of one's being with the Divine, and the transmutation of all of their jarring elements into a harmonious state of higher divine consciousness and existence.\n\nAs described by Sri Aurobindo and his co-worker The Mother (1878–1973), this spiritual teaching involves an integral divine transformation of the entire being, rather than the liberation of only a single faculty such as the intellect or the emotions or the body. According to Sri Aurobindo,\n(T)he Divine is in his essence infinite and his manifestation too is multitudinously infinite. If that is so, it is not likely that our true integral perfection in being and in nature can come by one kind of realisation alone; it must combine many different strands of divine experience. It cannot be reached by the exclusive pursuit of a single line of identity till that is raised to its absolute; it must harmonise many aspects of the Infinite. An integral consciousness with a multiform dynamic experience is essential for the complete transformation of our nature. — Sri Aurobindo, \"The Synthesis of Yoga\", p. 114\n\nAurobindo's ideas were further explored by Indra Sen (1903–1994) in the 1940s and 1950s, a psychologist, and devotee of Sri Aurobindo and The Mother. He was the first to coin the term \"Integral psychology\" to describe the psychological observations he found in Sri Aurobindo's writings (which he contrasted with those of Western Psychology), and developed themes of \"Integral Culture\" and \"Integral Man\".\n\nThese ideas were further developed by Haridas Chaudhuri (1913–1975), a Bengali philosopher and academic who founded in 1968 the California Institute of Integral Studies.\n\nThe word \"integral\" was independently suggested by Jean Gebser (1905–1973), a Swiss phenomenologist and interdisciplinary scholar, in 1939 to describe his own intuition regarding the next stage of human consciousness. Gebser was the author of \"The Ever-Present Origin\", which describes human history as a series of mutations in consciousness. He only afterwards discovered the similarity between his own ideas and those of Sri Aurobindo and Teilhard de Chardin. In his book \"The Ever-Present Origin\", Gebser distinguished between five structures of consciousness: archaic, magic, mythical, mental, and integral. Gebser wrote that he was unaware of Sri Aurobindo's prior usage of the term \"integral\", which coincides to some extent with his own.\n\nThe German indologist Georg Feuerstein first wrote about Integralism in \"Wholeness or Transcendence? Ancient Lessons for the Emerging Global Civilization\" (1992). Feuerstein used this term to refer to a particular outlook on spirituality which he saw present in the Indian tantric traditions. Feuerstein outlined three major approaches to life in Indian spirituality: \"nivritti-marga\" (path of cessation), \"pravritti-marga\" (path of activity) and \"purna-marga\" (path of wholeness). The path of cessation is the traditional path of renunciation and asceticism practiced by sanyasins with the goal of liberation from this world, while the path of activity is the pursuit of worldly goods and happiness. Feuerstein ties this integral approach to nondual Indian philosophy and the tantric tradition. According to Feuerstein the integral or wholeness approach: \"implies a total cognitive shift by which the phenomenal world is rendered transparent through superior wisdom. No longer are things seen as being strictly separated from one another, as if they were insular realities in themselves, but everything is seen together, understood together, and lived together. Whatever distinctions there may be, these are variations or manifestations of and within the selfsame Being.\" An integral worldview also leads to body and sex positivism and anti-asceticism. Even negative experiences such as pain and disgust are seen as integral to our life and world and thus are not rejected by the integral approach, but used skillfully.\n\nAfter completing SES, Ken Wilber started to collaborate with Don Beck, whose \"Spiral Dynamics\" shows strong correlates with Wilber's model.\n\nIn Spiral Dynamics, Don Beck and Chris Cowan use the term \"integral\" for a developmental stage which sequentially follows the pluralistic stage. The essential characteristic of this stage is that it continues the inclusive nature of the pluralistic mentality, yet extends this inclusiveness to those outside of the pluralistic mentality. In doing so, it accepts the ideas of development and hierarchy, which the pluralistic mentality finds difficult. Other ideas of Beck and Cowan include the \"first tier\" and \"second tier\", which refer to major periods of human development.\n\nKen Wilber's AQAL, pronounced \"ah-qwul\", is the basic framework of Integral Theory. It suggests that all human knowledge and experience can be placed in a four-quadrant grid, along the axes of \"interior-exterior\" and \"individual-collective\". According to Wilber, it is one of the most comprehensive approaches to reality, a metatheory that attempts to explain how academic disciplines and every form of knowledge and experience fit together coherently.\n\nAQAL is based on four fundamental concepts and a rest-category: four quadrants, several levels and lines of development, several states of consciousness, and \"types\", topics which don't fit into these four concepts. \"Levels\" are the stages of development, from pre-personal through personal to transpersonal. \"Lines\" are lines of development, the several domains of development, which may process uneven, with several stages of development in place at the various domains. \"States\" are states of consciousness; according to Wilber persons may have a terminal experience of a higher developmental stage. \"Types\" is a rest-category, for phenomena which don't fit in the other four concepts. In order for an account of the Kosmos to be complete, Wilber believes that it must include each of these five categories. For Wilber, only such an account can be accurately called \"integral\". In the essay, \"Excerpt C: The Ways We Are in This Together\", Wilber describes AQAL as \"one suggested architecture of the Kosmos\".\n\nThe model is topped with formless awareness, \"the simple feeling of being,\" which is equated with a range of \"ultimates\" from a variety of eastern traditions. This formless awareness transcends the phenomenal world, which is ultimately only an appearance of some transcendental reality. According to Wilber, the AQAL categories—quadrants, lines, levels, states, and types—describe the relative truth of the two truths doctrine of Buddhism.\n\nHolons are the individual building blocks of Wilber's model. Wilber borrowed the concept of \"holons\" from Arthur Koestler's description of the great chain of being, a mediaeval description of levels of being. \"Holon\" means that every entity and concept is both an entity on its own, and a hierarchical part of a larger whole. For example, a cell in an organism is both a whole as a cell, and at the same time a part of another whole, the organism. Likewise a letter is a self-existing entity and simultaneously an integral part of a word, which then is part of a sentence, which is part of a paragraph, which is part of a page; and so on. Everything from quarks to matter to energy to ideas can be looked at in this way. The relation between individuals and society is not the same as between cells and organisms though, because individual holons can be members but not parts of social holons.\n\nIn his book \"Sex, Ecology, Spirituality: The Spirit of Evolution\", Wilber outlines twenty fundamental properties, called \"tenets\", that characterize all holons. For example, they must be able to maintain their \"wholeness\" and also their \"part-ness;\" a holon that cannot maintain its wholeness will cease to exist and will break up into its constituent parts.\n\nHolons form natural \"holarchies\", like Russian dolls, where a whole is a part of another whole, in turn part of another whole, and so on.\n\nEach holon can be seen from within (subjective, interior perspective) and from the outside (objective, exterior perspective), and from an individual or a collective perspective.\n\nEach of the four approaches has a valid perspective to offer. The subjective emotional pain of a person who suffers a tragedy is one perspective; the social statistics about such tragedies are different perspectives on the same matter. According to Wilber all are needed for real appreciation of a matter.\n\nWilber uses this grid to categorize the perspectives of various theories and scholars, for example:\n\nAccording to Wilber, all four perspectives offer complementary, rather than contradictory, perspectives. It is possible for all to be correct, and all are necessary for a complete account of human existence. According to Wilber, each by itself offers only a partial view of reality.\n\nAccording to Wilber modern western society has a pathological focus on the exterior or objective perspective. Such perspectives value that which can be externally measured and tested in a laboratory, but tend to deny or marginalize the left sides (subjectivity, individual experience, feelings, values) as \"unproven\" or having \"no meaning\". Wilber identifies this as a fundamental cause of society's malaise, and names the situation resulting from such perspectives, \"flatland\".\n\nWilber discerns various structural stages of development, following several structural stage theories of developmental psychology. According to Wilber, these stages can be grouped in pre-personal (subconscious motivations), personal (conscious mental processes), and transpersonal (integrative and mystical structures) stages.\n\nAll of these mental structures are considered to be complementary and legitimate, rather than mutual exclusive. Wilber's equates the levels in psychological and cultural development, with the hierarchical nature of matter itself.\n\nAccording to Wilber, various domains or lines of development, or intelligences can be discerned. They include cognitive, ethical, aesthetic, spiritual, kinesthetic, affective, musical, spatial, logical-mathematical, karmic, etc. For example, one can be highly developed cognitively (cerebrally smart) without being highly developed morally (as in the case of Nazi doctors).\n\nStates are temporary states of consciousness, such as waking, dreaming and sleeping, bodily sensations, and drug-induced and meditation-induced states. Some states are interpreted as temporary intimations of higher stages of development. Wilber's formulation is: \"States are free but structures are earned.\" A person has to \"build\" or earn structure; it cannot be peak-experienced for free. What can be peak-experienced, however, are higher states of freedom from the stage a person is habituated to, so these deeper or higher states can be experienced at any level.\n\nThese are models and theories that don't fit into Wilber’s other categorizations. Masculine/feminine, the nine Enneagram categories, and Jung's archetypes and typologies, among innumerable others, are all valid types in Wilber's schema. Wilber makes types part of his model in order to point out that these distinctions are different from the already mentioned distinctions: quadrants, lines, levels and states.\n\nBonnitta Roy has introduced a \"Process Model\" of integral theory, combining Western process philosophy, Dzogchen ideas, and Wilberian theory. She distinguishes between Wilber's concept of \"perspective\" and the Dzogchen concept of \"view\", arguing that Wilber's view is situated within a framework or \"structural enfoldment\" which constrains it, in contrast to the Dzogchen intention of being mindful of view.\n\nWendelin Küpers, a German scholar specializing in phenomenological research, has proposed that an \"integral pheno-practice\" based on aspects of the work of Maurice Merleau-Ponty can provide the basis of an \"adequate phenomenology\" useful in integral research. His proposed approach claims to offer a more inclusive and coherent approach than classical phenomenology, including procedures and techniques called \"epoché\", \"bracketing\", \"reduction\", and \"free variation.\"\n\nSean Esbjörn-Hargens has proposed a new approach to climate change called Integral Pluralism, which builds on Wilber's recent work but emphasizes elements such as Ontological Pluralism that are understated or absent in Wilber's own writings.\n\nSome individuals affiliated with Ken Wilber have claimed that there exists a loosely defined \"Integral movement\". Others, however, have disagreed. Whatever its status as a \"movement\", there are a variety of religious organizations, think tanks, conferences, workshops, and publications in the US and internationally that use the term \"integral\".\n\nAccording to John Bothwell and David Geier, among the top thinkers in the integral movement are Stanislav Grof, Fred Kofman, George Leonard, Michael Murphy, Jenny Wade, Roger Walsh, Ken Wilber, and Michael E. Zimmerman. Australian academic Alex Burns mentions among integral theorists Jean Gebser, Clare W. Graves, Jane Loevinger and Ken Wilber. In 2007, Steve McIntosh pointed to Henri Bergson and Teilhard de Chardin as pre-figuring Wilber as integral thinkers. While in the same year, the editors of \"What Is Enlightenment?\" listed as contemporary Integralists Don Beck, Allan Combs, Robert Godwin, Sally Goerner, George Leonard, Michael Murphy, William Irwin Thompson, and Wilber.\n\nGary Hampson suggested that there are six intertwined genealogical branches of Integral, based on those who first used the term: those aligned with Aurobindo, Gebser, Wilber, Gangadean, László and Steiner (noting that the Steiner branch is via the conduit of Gidley).\n\nMichael E. Zimmerman and Sean Esbjörn-Hargens have applied Wilber's integral theory in their environmental studies and ecological research, calling it \"integral ecology\".\n\n\"Integral leadership\" is presented as a style of leadership that attempts to integrate major styles of leadership. Don Beck, Lawrence Chickering, Jack Crittenden, David Sprecher, and Ken Wilber have applied the AQAL-model to issues in political philosophy and applications in government, calling it \"integral politics\". Sen has called the Yoga psychology of Sri Aurobindo \"Integral psychology.\" For Wilber, \"integral psychology\" is psychology that is inclusive or holistic rather than exclusivist or reductive, and values and integrates multiple explanations and methodologies. Marilyn Hamilton used the term \"integral city\", describing the city as a living human system, using an integral lens. Integral Life Practice (ILP) applies Ken Wilber's Integral model through nine modules of personal practice. Examples of \"integral practice\" not associated with Ken Wilber, and derived from alternate approaches, are Integral Transformative Practice (ITP), Holistic Integration, and Integral Lifework.\n\nIntegral Theory is widely ignored, at mainstream academic institutions, and has been sharply contested by critics. The independent scholar Frank Visser says that there is a problematic relation between Wilber and academia for several reasons, including a \"self-referential discourse\" wherein Wilber tends to describe his work as being at the forefront of science. Visser has compiled a bibliography of online criticism of Wilber's Integral Theory and produced an overview of their objections. Another Wilber critic, the independent scholar Andrew P. Smith, observes that most of Wilber's work has not been published by university presses, a fact that discourages some academics from taking his ideas seriously. Wilber's failure to respond to critics of Integral Theory is also said to contribute to the field's chilly reception in some quarters.\n\nForman and Esbjörn-Hargens have countered criticisms regarding the academic standing of integral studies in part by claiming that the divide between Integral Theory and academia is exaggerated by critics who themselves lack academic credentials or standing. They also said that participants at the first Integral Theory Conference in 2008 had largely mainstream academic credentials and pointed to existing programs in alternative universities like John F. Kennedy University or Fielding Graduate University as an indication of the field's emergence.\n\nThe AQAL system has been critiqued for not taking into account the lack of change in the biological structure of the brain at the human level (complex neocortex), this role being taken instead by human-made artifacts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26656603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26656603", "title": "John Siddique", "text": "John Siddique\n\nJohn Siddique (born 1964) is best known as a British spiritual teacher, poet, and author. \nHe is the founder of Authentic Living, through which he aims to encourage people from all walks of life awaken to what he calls their 'true naturalness'.\n\nIn the field of literature, Siddique is the Honorary Fellow in Creative Writing at Leicester University. He is the former Canterbury Laureate, and British Council Poet in Residence at California State University, Los Angeles. He has served as a Royal Literary Fund Fellow at York St. John University.\n\nThe young Siddique immersed himself in the world of books through his local library. Before becoming a writer he drifted through various jobs such as being a roadie, a pipe-welder, and landscape gardener. He first began writing in 1991 after reading James Joyce's Ulysses and discovering the poetry of e.e. cummings, Walt Whitman, and D.H. Lawrence. He has stated in interviews that he regards his true countries of birth to be \"literature and language\".\n\nIn late 2014 Siddique became very ill and underwent a near-death experience, he says that as he died, he felt an infinite love that was beyond intimacy, and that he distinctly heard a voice telling him to 'leave his old work and go and talk with people.' It was this that led him to become a spiritual teacher.\n\nPoetry\n\"Full Blood\" (Salt, 2011)\n\"Recital – An Almanac\" (Salt, 2009)\n\"Blackpool - A Poet’s View\" (Blackpool Council, 2009)\n\"Poems from a Northern Soul\" (Crocus, 2007)\n\"Transparency\" (editor) (Crocus, 2006) \n\"The Prize\" (Rialto, 2005)\n\"The Devil's Lunchbox\" (Crocus, 1996)\n\nShort stories\n\"Four Fathers\" (co-author) (Route, 2007) \n\nFor children\n\"Don’t Wear It On Your Head\" (Salt, 2010)\n\nSelected anthologies\n\"New Writing 15\" (Granta)\n\"The Fire People\" (Payback/Canongate)\n\"The HarperCollins Book of English Poetry\" (Harper Collins)\n\"Masala\" (MacMillan)\n\"Out of Bounds\" (Bloodaxe)\n\"RED\" (Peepal Tree)\n\"Life Lines – Poets for Oxfam\" CD\n\"I Am The Seed That Grew The Tree\" (Nosy Crow/National Trust)\n\nPrizes, awards and honours\nHawthornden Fellowship \nRoyal Literary Fund Fellow – York St. John University 2013-15\nHonorary Creative Writing Fellow at Leicester University \nArts Council of England Writer’s Awards 2005, 2006, 2007, 2011\nShortlisted for CPLE Poetry Award 2007\nNomination for Best First Collection - Forward Prize 2005\nNomination for Best Poem - Forward Prize 2004\n\nResidencies\nCanterbury Poet Laureate 2016 \nRoyal Literary Fund Fellow - York St. John 2013/15 & 2014/15\nManchester Literature Festival 2010\nLos Angeles for The British Council 2009\nBlackpool - Poet in Residence 2008\nManchester Art Gallery 2008\nFundacion Valparaiso 2006 \nThe Rainer Charity, Wigan 2005 \nCommonword/BBC Manchester - Poet in Residence 2005\nIlkley Literature Festival - Poet in Residence 2004\nHMYOI Wetherby - Writer in Residence 2000 – 03\nLedbury Poetry Festival - Writer in Residence for Young People 2000 – 03\nThe LOWRY - Poet in residence 2000 – 01\nPrestwich NHS Trust - Poet in Residence 2000\n\n"}
{"id": "2807538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2807538", "title": "Joseph Frédéric Bérard", "text": "Joseph Frédéric Bérard\n\nJoseph Frédéric Bérard (4 November 1789 – 16 April 1828), French physician and philosopher, was born at Montpellier.\n\nEducated at the medical school in Montpellier, he afterwards went to Paris, where he was employed in connection with the \"Dictionnaire des sciences medicales\". He returned in 1816, and published a work, \"Doctrine medicale de l'école de Montpellier\" (1819), which is indispensable to a proper understanding of the principles of the Vitalistic school, more specifically \"Doctrine medicale de l'école de Montpellier\".\n\nIn 1823 he was called to a chair of medicine at Paris, which he held for three years; he was then nominated professor of hygiene at Montpellier. His health gave way under his labours, and he died in 1828. His most important book is his \"Doctrines des rapports du physique et du moral\" (Paris, 1823).\n\nHe held that consciousness or internal perception reveals to us the existence of an immaterial, thinking, feeling and willing subject, the self or soul. Alongside of this there is the vital force, the nutritive Tower, which uses the physical frame as its organ. The soul and the principle of life are in constant reciprocal action, and the first owes to the second, not the formation of its faculties, but the conditions under which they are evolved. He showed himself unable to understand the points of view of those whom he criticized, and yet his own theories, midway between vitalism and animism, are entirely destitute of originality.\n\nTo the \"Esprit des doctrines medicales de Montpellier\", published posthumously (Paris, 1830), the editor, H. Petiot, prefixed an account of his life and works; see also Damiron, \"Phil. en France an XIX' siècle\" (Paris, 1834); C. J. Tissot, \"Anthropologie générale\" (1843).\n\n"}
{"id": "38422593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38422593", "title": "Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics", "text": "Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics\n\nKant and the Problem of Metaphysics () is a 1929 book about Immanuel Kant by the German philosopher Martin Heidegger. It is often referred by Heidegger to simply as the \"Kantbuch\" (\"Kantbook\"). This book published as volume 3 of the \"Gesamtausgabe\".\n\nThe book is dedicated to the memory of Max Scheler.\n\nDuring the 1920s Heidegger read Immanuel Kant extensively. The Kantian influence is pervasive throughout Heidegger's most celebrated and influential book, \"Being and Time\" (1927). The Kantbook can be seen as a supplement for the unfinished second part of \"Being and Time\". Additionally, during the winter semester of 1927/28 Heidegger delivered a lecture course dealing explicitly with Kant's philosophy entitled \"Phenomenological Interpretation of Kant's Critique of Pure Reason\" (volume 25 of the Gesamtausgabe). However, the main source for the Kantbook was Heidegger's encounter with Ernst Cassirer in Davos, in 1929. It is here Heidegger begins to develop his unique interpretation of Kant which places unprecedented emphasis on the schematism of the categories. Heidegger began writing \"Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics\" immediately after Davos.\n\nCassirer, like most Kant scholars, rejected Heidegger's interpretation of Kant. According to Michael J. Inwood, Heidegger implicitly abandoned some of the views he expounded in \"Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics\" in his subsequent work on Kant.\n\n\nTaft notes Churchill's translation \"occasionally falls into awkward and misleading renderings of the original that make it hard to use today.\" The primary reason for this is that Churchill's translation is one of earliest translations of any of Heidegger's works into English, thus predating most of the now established conventions in Heidegger scholarship in the English speaking world.\n"}
{"id": "46591626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46591626", "title": "Kocc Barma Fall", "text": "Kocc Barma Fall\n\nKocc Barma Fall, born Birima Maxuréja Demba Xolé Faal (1586-1655) was a Senegalese philosopher. He is considered to be the greatest Senegalese thinker and philosopher and one of the prominent figures of African philosophy. David Murphy states that \"Kocc Barma's words and acts have passed into Senegalese folklore to such an extent that proverbs are often introduced by the phrase 'Kocc Barma said', whether this is true or not\". His fertile imagination, his quick wit and his metaphorical sayings are part of the universe of Wolof culture. During his lifetime he was particularly concerned about the injustice of Damels, whom he viewed as tyrannical.\n"}
{"id": "2103986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2103986", "title": "Logical extreme", "text": "Logical extreme\n\nA logical extreme is a useful, though often fallacious, rhetorical device for the disputation of propositions. Quite simply, a logical extreme is the relevant statement of an extreme or even preposterous position that is nonetheless consistent with the proposition in question. Thus, in so far as the logically extreme position is both relevant and untenable, it has succeeded in calling the proposition into question, at least in its stated form.\n\n"}
{"id": "629224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=629224", "title": "Louis Gabriel Ambroise de Bonald", "text": "Louis Gabriel Ambroise de Bonald\n\nLouis Gabriel Ambroise, Vicomte de Bonald (2 October 1754 – 23 November 1840), was a French counter-revolutionary philosopher and politician. Mainly, he is remembered for developing a set of social theories that exercised a powerful influence in shaping the ontological framework from which French sociology would emerge.\n\nBonald came from an ancient noble family of Provence. He was educated at the Oratorian college at Juilly, and after serving with the Artillery, he held a post in the local administration of his native province. Elected to the States General of 1789 as a deputy for Aveyron, he strongly opposed the new legislation on the civil status of the clergy and emigrated in 1791. There he joined the army of the Prince of Condé, soon settling in Heidelberg. There he wrote his first important work, the highly conservative \"Theorie du Pouvoir Politique et Religieux dans la Societe Civile Demontree par le Raisonnement et l'Histoire\" (3 vols., 1796; new ed., Paris, 1854, 2 vols.), which the Directory condemned.\n\nUpon returning to France, he found himself an object of suspicion and at first lived in retirement. In 1806, he, along with Chateaubriand and Joseph Fiévée, edited the \"Mercure de France\". Two years later, he was appointed counsellor of the Imperial University, which he had often attacked previously. After the Bourbon Restoration he was a member of the council of public instruction. From 1815 to 1822, de Bonald served as a deputy in the Chamber of Deputies. His speeches were extremely conservative and he advocated literary censorship. In 1825, he argued strongly in favor of the Anti-Sacrilege Act, including its prescription of the death penalty under certain conditions.\n\nIn 1822, de Bonald was made Minister of State, and presided over the censorship commission. In the following year, he was made a peer, a dignity which he had lost by refusing to take the required oath in 1803. In 1816, he was appointed to the French Academy. In 1830, he retired from public life and spent the remainder of his days on his estate at Le Monna.\n\nDe Bonald had four sons, two of whom, Victor and Louis, led lives of some note.\n\nBonald was one of the leading writers of the theocratic or traditionalist school, which included de Maistre, Lamennais, Ballanche and baron Ferdinand d'Eckstein. His writings are mainly on social and political philosophy, and are based ultimately on one great principle, the divine origin of language. In his own words, \"L'homme pense sa parole avant de parler sa pensée\" (man thinks his speech before saying his thought); the first language contained the essence of all truth. From this he deduces the existence of God, the divine origin and consequent supreme authority of the Holy Scriptures, and the infallibility of the Catholic Church.\n\nWhile this thought lies at the root of all his speculations, there is a formula of constant application. All relations may be stated as the triad of cause, means and effect, which he sees repeated throughout nature. Thus, in the universe, he finds the first cause as mover, movement as the means, and bodies as the result; in the state, power as the cause, ministers as the means, and subjects as the effects; in the family, the same relation is exemplified by father, mother and children. These three terms bear specific relations to one another; the first is to the second as the second to the third. Thus, in the great triad of the religious world—God, the Mediator, and Man—God is to the God-Man as the God-Man is to Man. On this basis, he constructed a system of political absolutism.\n\nBonald published one of the most violent anti-Semitic texts of the post-French Revolutionary period, \"Sur les juifs\". In it, the Philosophes are condemned for fashioning the intellectual tools used to justify Jewish emancipation during the Revolution. Bonald accuses the Jews of not becoming \"authentic\" French citizens and disrupting traditional society. Michele Battini writes:According to Bonald [...] the Constituent Assembly had committed \"the enormous mistake of knowingly putting laws in conflict with religion and customs,\" but, sooner or later, the government would have to change its mind, as would \"the friends of the blacks\" who regretted \"the haste with which they called for freedom for a people who had always been alien.\" [...] The Jews, by their \"nature,\" are a nation destined to remain alien to other peoples. This \"foreignness\" appears—this seems the sense of the reference to the \"noirs\" —to be an objective fact, permanent and \"physical,\" and for this reason analogous to the racial difference with the blacks.Bonald calls for the reversal of Jewish emancipation and endorses new discriminatory measures:such as the imposition of identifying marks on the clothes of the enemy who had become \"invisible\" because of emancipation. The identification mark (\"la marque distinctive\") would be fully justified by the need to identify those responsible for behavior hostile to the \"bien public\". The return to the past almost sounds like a premonition of Hitler’s decrees. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "47376162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47376162", "title": "Marc Crépon", "text": "Marc Crépon\n\nMarc Crépon (born 30 March 1962) is a French philosopher and academic who writes on the subject of languages and communities in the French and German philosophies and contemporary political and moral philosophy. He has also translated works by philosophers such as Nietzsche, Franz Rosenzweig and Leibniz.\n\nHe is chair of Philosophy at the Ecole Normale Superieure and director of research at the Archives Husserl, National Center for Scientific Research.\n\nHe was born in Decize, Nievre in 1962. After high school, Crépon completed a preparatory course at Lycee Condorcet in Paris. He then attended the Ecole Normale Superieure and passed the agrégation in 1986, a French civil service exam for positions in public education.\n\nThe topic of his dissertation (written in French) was \"The problem of human diversity: survey on the characterization of the people and the constitution of geographies of spirit from Leibniz to Hegel\" (1995).\nCrépon's first academic position was teaching philosophy at Nanterre University. Shortly after this, he moved to Moldova for a period and credits living and working in the USSR with developing many of his attitudes and pedagogical methods. At this time, he also developed an interest in the relationship between political and linguistic communities, which he would go on to research in greater detail.\n\nHe has traveled and lectured at American universities, including University of California, Irvine and Rice University. Crépon also taught classes while in residence at Northwestern University in Chicago in 2006 and in 2008.\n\nMarc Crépon was the co-founder (along with Bernard Stiegler) of the association \"Ars Industrialis\".\n\nMarc Crépon has written 16 books in French, the most notable of which are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "31322407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31322407", "title": "Moritz Wilhelm Drobisch", "text": "Moritz Wilhelm Drobisch\n\nMoritz Wilhelm Drobisch (16 August 1802 – 30 September 1896) was a German mathematician, logician, psychologist and philosopher. His brother was the composer Karl Ludwig Drobisch (1803–1854).\n\nDrobisch studied mathematics and philosophy at the University of Leipzig, where he subsequently became a professor. He wrote his \"habilitation\" in 1824. From 1826 to 1868 he served as \"ordinarius\" (full professor) in mathematics, and from 1842 on as \"ordinarius\" in philosophy. He was rector of the university of Leipzig in 1840–41 and served as dean of the philosophical faculty several times. Drobisch made contributions to philosophical and mathematical logic, set theory, quantitative linguistics and empirical psychology. Drobisch was strongly influenced by Johann Friedrich Herbart.\n\nIn 1834, Drobisch joined the Count Jablonowski Society of the Sciences in Leipzig. In 1846 he was a co-founder of the Saxony's Royal Society of the Sciences, whose successor organisation has named a medal in his honour. In 1868, Drobisch resigned from the mathematics department to devote himself to philosophy. He was made an honorary citizen of Leipzig in 1876. In his later years, Drobisch suffered from advancing blindness, making scholarly work impossible from the mid-1880s on. Wilhelm Wundt, a pioneer of German empirical psychology, held Drobisch's funeral oration and acknowledged his influence. Drobisch was one of the forerunners of the Neo-Kantian revival of the 1860s. Friedrich Albert Lange criticized him and Herbart in his \"Foundations of Mathematical Psychology\" (1865).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2443157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2443157", "title": "Nikolai Bugaev", "text": "Nikolai Bugaev\n\nNikolai Vasilievich Bugaev (; September 14, 1837 – June 11, 1903) was a prominent Russian mathematician, the father of Andrei Bely.\n\nBugaev was born in Georgia, Russian Empire into a somewhat unstable family (his father was an army doctor), and at the age of ten young Nikolai was sent to Moscow to find his own means of obtaining an education. He succeeded, graduating in 1859 from Moscow University, where he majored in mathematics and physics. He went on to study engineering, but in 1863 wrote a Master's thesis on the convergence of infinite series. This document was sufficiently impressive to win him a place studying under Karl Weierstrass and Ernst Kummer in Berlin. He also spent some time in Paris studying under Joseph Liouville. He earned his doctoral degree in 1866 and returned to Moscow, where he taught for the remainder of his career. Some of his most influential papers offered proofs of previously unproven assertions of Liouville, but his most original work centered around the development of formal analogies between arithmetic and analytic operations.\n\nBugaev was the active member of the Moscow Mathematical Society and the president of it (1891-1903). He also wrote influential philosophical essays in which he trumpeted the virtues of mathematical analysis and decried the influence of geometry and probability. Many feel he is largely responsible for the pronounced predilection towards \"hard analysis\" which is characteristic of so much of the best Russian mathematics. Through Bugaev's star student, Dmitri Egorov, many famous Russian mathematicians, such as Andrei Kolmogorov and Nikolai Luzin, directly \"descend\" from Bugaev—and thus from the Prince of Mathematicians, Carl Friedrich Gauss.\n\nNikolai Bugaev was also a talented chess player; some of his games are available at orangutan-people site.\n\nBugaev was a memorable \"character\" whose life was touched by scandal. He was not, it is said, much admired for his looks, but his wife was brilliant, beautiful, and rich, and the Bugaevs were socially prominent. Their mathematically, musically, and artistically talented son, \"Boris Nikolaevich Bugaev\" (14 October 1880 O.S.-8 January 1934), went on to adopt the pseudonym Andrei Bely, under which name he helped found the Symbolist movement. Professor Korobkin, the main character of Bely's innovative novel \"Moscow\", was inspired by Nikolay Bugayev. In view of his father's prejudices, Boris Bugaev was fascinated by probability and particularly by the notion of entropy, which is mentioned in several of his novels and poems.\n\n"}
{"id": "53642847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53642847", "title": "Peter A. French", "text": "Peter A. French\n\nPeter A. French (born March 19, 1942) is an American philosopher and writer. He is Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Arizona State University where he taught from 2000 until 2016. He previously was a professor at Northern Arizona University, University of Minnesota, Dalhousie University, Trinity University, and the University of South Florida.\n\nFrench was born in 1942 in Newburgh, New York. His father was a Lutheran minister, his mother died of cancer when he was five years old. He was raised in New York and New England and earned a BA (with majors in philosophy and religious studies) from Gettysburg College (1963), an MA in philosophy from the University of Southern California (1964) and a Ph.D. in philosophy from the University of Miami (1971). He did post-doctoral work at Oxford University.\n\nFrench has been a professor of philosophy at Northern Arizona University, the University of Minnesota, and a visiting professor at Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia. He has held the Exxon Distinguished Research Professorship in the Center for the Study of Values at the University of Delaware, the Lennox Distinguished Professorship and Chair of Philosophy at Trinity University, and the Cole Chair in Ethics, Director of the Ethics Center, and Chair of the Department of Philosophy at the University of South Florida. He is now Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Arizona State University where he served as the Lincoln Professor of Ethics and Professor of Philosophy, and was the founding Director of the Lincoln Center for Applied Ethics from 2000 to 2013.\n\nFrench is the author of twenty-one books on a wide range of topics in ethics, metaethics and applied ethics. A number of his papers are translated into Chinese, Japanese, German, Italian, French, Serbian, and Spanish. He was the editor of the \"Journal of Social Philosophy\" for 16 years (1988-2005) and general editor of the seven volume \"Issues in Contemporary Ethics\" series in the 1970s. According to Zachary Goldberg, professor at Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, French’s contributions to a wide spectrum of philosophical discussions made him an influential figure in the areas of moral responsibility and the agency of individuals and collectives.\n\nFrench is best known for his work on collective and corporate responsibility, especially his theory that corporations should be treated as members of the moral community and held morally responsible for their actions. According to Professor Jeffrey Moriarty in the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" French is “a seminal thinker on corporate moral agency.” He is responsible for developing the argument that firms have internal decision-making structures through which they act intentionally. In \"The Corporation as a Moral Person\" French coined the term Corporate Internal Decision Structures (CID Structures) and defined a CID Structure as an organization of personnel for the exercise of a corporation’s power with respect to its ventures and interests. According to French a CID Structure produces decision-making, ratification, and action processes thereby forming a corporation into a functioning intentional morally responsible entity. He identified two sorts of rules crucial to CID Structures: organizational rules and policy/procedure rules. Organizational rules define levels of authority. Policies and procedures are recognition rules for identifying a decision or an act as having been made or performed for corporate reasons. French expanded, defended, and modified this theory in publications in subsequent years. According to Michael Kerlin in the \"Journal of Business Ethics\" French’s work on corporate ethics is “of intellectual sophistication with real world applications.”\n\nWhen the United States Supreme Court issued its ruling in \"Citizens United v. FEC\", some philosophers and legal theorists wrote to French claiming his work had laid the groundwork for the treatment of corporations as persons and asked if he was willing to change his position on corporations and write an opinion piece for the \"New York Times\". French declined and responded in a paper published in the festschrift honoring him that the Court’s majority opinion does not represent his position on corporate moral personhood. French noted that Justice Antonin Scalia wrote in his concurring opinion that corporate speech is “the speech of many individual Americans who have associated in a common cause, giving the leadership of the corporation the right to speak on their behalf.” French argued that corporations do not speak for their employees, stockholders, or others affiliated with them. There is no necessary connection between what corporate speech expresses and the beliefs, desires, interests, plans, and goals of such individuals. Corporations speak qua corporate entities and the political speech of individuals is already protected.\n\nFrench distinguished two distinct types of collectivities in his discussions of collective responsibility: aggregates and conglomerates. According to Marian Smiley, French defines an aggregate collectivity as merely a group of people to whom collective responsibility cannot be ascribed. A conglomerate collectivity for French is an organization of individuals whose identity is not exhausted by the conjunction of the identities of the persons in the organization. Conglomerate collectivities can be held collectively responsible. On French's account, responsibility may be distributable or non-distributable over the membership of a collectivity depending on the type.\n\nFrench also coined the term “the responsibility barter game” to describe the common way people negotiate with each other to try to lessen or avoid personal responsibility for bad outcomes. According to Jane E. Jadlos writing in \"The Journal of Religion\" for French “responsibility is not a truth of some sort about the world, but a set of practices used to describe and understand individual and social behavior.” French has also written on moral assessment, evil, loss of innocence, blame, shame, vengeance, moral originality, and moral belief/behavior discordance. and he is a founding and senior editor of \"Midwest Studies in Philosophy\", an annual book series since 1976 in analytic philosophy.\n\nThe first chapter of French’s \"War and Moral Dissonance\" is a memoir of his experiences teaching ethics to Navy and Marine chaplains during Iraq War. Colonel James L. Cook of the United States Air Force Academy in a review of that book says that French discusses ad bellum and in bello ethical lapses in the war, but delves into the metaphysical issues others ignore and examines the war's aftermath. French's treatment is philosophically rigorous, but also poetically touching…[it] combines philosophical acumen with profound empathy even for a single victim of war.”\n\nIn 2006 Gettysburg College awarded French a Doctor of Humane Letters (L.H.D.) degree for his work in philosophy and ethics. The citation read at the college’s 171st Commencement by then Gettysburg College President Katherine Will included the following: “Your book exploring the My Lai Massacre attracted national attention for its exploration of the question of whether army units or individual members of those units are responsible for military atrocities and is widely credited as a founding work of the field of applied ethics.” In 2008 the American Philosophical Association dedicated an issue of its \"Newsletter on Philosophy and Law\" to French because of his “influence in applied ethics and having helped establish the field of applied ethics as a substantive area of research in the philosophy discipline.” In 2014 the American Philosophical Association dedicated a Symposium Session on the Work of Peter French at its Central Division Meetings in Chicago.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24665268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24665268", "title": "Piotr Lenartowicz", "text": "Piotr Lenartowicz\n\nPiotr Lenartowicz (25 August 1934 – 10 October 2012) was a Polish philosopher, vitalist, professor of philosophy at the Jesuit University of Philosophy and Education Ignatianum, jesuit.\n\nLenartowicz was born in Warsaw, Poland, the son of Wiesław Lenartowicz and Krystyna Schneider. He completed his medical studies at School of Medicine in Warsaw in 1958. In 1961 he obtained a doctorate in neurophysiology at the School of Medicine in Warsaw. Studied philosophy (Lic. in philosophy (Jesuit Faculty of Philosophy, Cracow, 1965) and theology Lic. in theology (Jesuit Faculty of Theology, Warsaw, 1970). He studied philosophy in Rome, at the Philosophical Faculty of Pontifical Gregorian University, and received a doctorate in developmental biology in 1975. He received another degree (doctor habilitowany) at the Philosophical Faculty of Pontifical Academy of Theology, Cracow, working on theory of biological phenomena, in 1986. In 1999 he became a full professor. Lenartowicz participated in seminars in Castel Gandolfo invited by Pope John Paul II. He was a member of the Jesuit University of Philosophy and Education Ignatianum and at one time was vice president of that institution.\n\nHis main interests revolve around philosophy of biology including integration of biological phenomena, theory of the genetic program, aristotelian theory of biological substance, cognitive aspects of biological dynamisms, problems of biological observation, experimentation and concept formation, and reconstruction of fossil hominids.\n\nLenartowicz wrote about the principles of irreducible complexity before the hypothesis gained ground after the publication of Michael Behe's Darwin's Black Box. In his dissertation Phenotype-Genotype Dichotomy published in 1975, he described irreducibility of certain biological phenomena.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28271176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28271176", "title": "Plant rights", "text": "Plant rights\n\nPlant rights are rights to which plants may be entitled. Such issues are often raised in connection with discussions about human rights, animal rights, biocentrism, or sentiocentrism.\n\nSamuel Butler's \"Erewhon\" contains a chapter, \"The Views of an Erewhonian Philosopher Concerning the Rights of Vegetables\".\n\nOn the question of whether animal rights can be extended to plants, animal rights philosopher Tom Regan argues that animals acquire rights due to being aware, what he calls \"subjects-of-a-life\". He argues that this does not apply to plants, and that even if plants did have rights, abstaining from eating meat would still be moral due to the use of plants to rear animals.\n\nAccording to philosopher Michael Marder, the idea that plants should have rights derives from \"plant subjectivity\", which is distinct from human personhood. Philosopher Paul Taylor holds that all life has inherent worth and argues for respect for plants, but does not assign them rights. Christopher D. Stone, the son of investigative journalist I. F. Stone, proposed in a 1972 paper titled \"Should Trees Have Standing?\" that if corporations are assigned rights, so should natural objects such as trees.\n\nWhilst not appealing directly to \"rights\", Matthew Hall has argued that plants should be included within the realm of human moral consideration. His \"Plants as Persons: A Philosophical Botany\" discusses the moral background of plants in western philosophy and contrasts this with other traditions, including indigenous cultures, which recognise plants as persons—active, intelligent beings that are appropriate recipients of respect and care. Hall backs up his call for the ethical consideration of plants with arguments based on plant neurobiology, which says that plants are autonomous, perceptive organisms capable of complex, adaptive behaviours, including the recognition of self/non-self.\n\nIn the study of plant physiology, plants are understood to have mechanisms by which they recognize environmental changes. This definition of plant perception differs from the notion that plants are capable of feeling emotions, an idea also called plant perception. The latter concept, along with plant intelligence, can be traced to 1848, when Gustav Theodor Fechner, a German experimental psychologist, suggested that plants are capable of emotions, and that one could promote healthy growth with talk, attention, and affection. \n\nThe Swiss Federal Ethics Committee on Non-Human Biotechnology analyzed scientific data on plants, and concluded in 2009 that plants are entitled to a certain amount of \"dignity\", but \"dignity of plants is not an absolute value.\"\n\nThe single-issue Party for Plants entered candidates in the 2010 parliamentary election in the Netherlands. It focuses on topics such as climate, biodiversity and sustainability in general. Such concerns have been criticized as evidence that modern culture is \"causing us to lose the ability to think critically and distinguish serious from frivolous ethical concerns\". \n\nIn his dissent to the 1972 \"Sierra Club v. Morton\" decision by the United States Supreme Court, Justice William O. Douglas wrote about whether plants might have legal standing:\nThe Swiss Constitution contains a provision requiring \"account to be taken of the dignity of creation when handling animals, plants and other organisms\", and the Swiss government has conducted ethical studies pertaining to how the dignity of plants is to be protected. \n\nIn 2012, a river in New Zealand, including the plants and other organisms contained within its boundaries, was legally declared a person with standing (via guardians) to bring legal actions to protect its interests.\n\nWhen challenged by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals to become vegetarian, Timothy McVeigh argued that \"plants are alive too, they react to stimuli (including pain); have circulation systems, etc\". \n\nThe Animal Liberation Front argues that there is no evidence that plants can experience pain, and that to the extent they respond to stimuli, it is like a device such as a thermostat responding to sensors.\n"}
{"id": "28737250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28737250", "title": "Preference", "text": "Preference\n\nA preference is a technical term in psychology, economics and philosophy usually used in relation to choosing between alternatives; someone has a preference for A over B if they would choose A rather than B.\n\nPreference can also be used in insolvency terms.\n\nIn psychology, preferences refer to an individual’s attitude towards a set of objects, typically reflected in an explicit decision-making process (Lichtenstein & Slovic, 2006). The term is also used to mean evaluative judgment in the sense of liking or disliking an object (e.g., Scherer, 2005) which is the most typical definition employed in psychology. However, it does not mean that a preference is necessarily stable over time. Preference can be notably modified by decision-making processes, such as choices (Brehm, 1956; Sharot, De Martino, & Dolan, 2009), even unconsciously (see Coppin, Delplanque, Cayeux, Porcherot, & Sander, 2010). Consequently, preference can be affected by a person's surroundings and upbringing in terms of geographical location, cultural background, religious beliefs, and education. These factors are found to affect preference as repeated exposure to a certain idea or concept correlates with a positive preference.\n\nIn economics and other social sciences, \"preference\" refers to the set of assumptions related to ordering some alternatives, based on the degree of happiness, satisfaction, gratification, enjoyment, or utility they provide, a process which results in an optimal \"choice\" (whether real or imagined). Although economists are usually not interested in choices or preferences in themselves, they are interested in the theory of choice because it serves as a background for empirical demand analysis.\n\nBrand preference is strongly linked to brand choice that can influence the consumer decision making and activate brand purchase. \"Brand preferences can be defined as the subjective, conscious and behavioral tendencies which influence consumer's predisposition toward a brand.\" Understanding the brand preferences of consumers will dictate the most suitable and successful Marketing Strategies.\n\n\"Preference\" may also refer to non-choices, such as genetic and biological explanations for one's preference. Sexual orientation, for example, is no longer considered a sexual preference by most individuals, but is debatable based on philosophical and/or scientific ideas.\n\nIn Insolvency, the term can be used to describe when a company pays a specific creditor or group of creditors. From doing this, that creditor(s) is made better off, than other creditors. After paying the 'preferred creditor', the company seeks to go into a formal insolvency like an administration or liquidation. There must be a desire to make the creditor better off, for them to be a preference. \nIf the preference is proven, legal action can occur. It is a wrongful act of trading. Disqualification is a risk. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5523586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5523586", "title": "Progenitor cell", "text": "Progenitor cell\n\nA progenitor cell is a biological cell that, like a stem cell, has a tendency to differentiate into a specific type of cell, but is already more specific than a stem cell and is pushed to differentiate into its \"target\" cell. The most important difference between stem cells and progenitor cells is that stem cells can replicate indefinitely, whereas progenitor cells can divide only a limited number of times. Controversy about the exact definition remains and the concept is still evolving.\n\nThe terms \"progenitor cell\" and \"stem cell\" are sometimes equated.\n\nMost progenitors are described as oligopotent. In this point of view, they may be compared to adult stem cells. But progenitors are said to be in a further stage of cell differentiation. They are in the “center” between stem cells and fully differentiated cells. The kind of potency they have depends on the type of their \"parent\" stem cell and also on their niche. Some progenitor cells were found during research, and were isolated. After their marker was found, it was proven that these progenitor cells could move through the body and migrate towards the tissue where they are needed. Many properties are shared by adult stem cells and progenitor cells.\n\nProgenitor cells are found in adult organisms and they act as a repair system for the body. They replenish special cells, but also maintain the blood, skin and intestinal tissues. They can also be found in developing embryonic pancreatic tissue.\n\nThe majority of progenitor cells lie dormant or possess little activity in the tissue in which they reside. They exhibit slow growth and their main role is to replace cells lost by normal attrition. In case of tissue injury, damaged or dead cells, progenitor cells can be activated. Growth factors or cytokines are two substances that trigger the progenitors to mobilize toward the damaged tissue. At the same time, they start to differentiate into the target cells. Not all progenitors are mobile and are situated near the tissue of their target differentiation. When the cytokines, growth factors and other cell division enhancing stimulators take on the progenitors, a higher rate of cell division is introduced. It leads to the recovery of the tissue.\n\nThe characterization or the defining principle of progenitor cells, in order to separate them from others, is based on the different cell markers rather than their morphological appearance.\n\n\nBefore embryonic day 40 (E40), progenitor cells generate other progenitor cells; after that period, progenitor cells produce only dissimilar mesenchymal stem cell daughters. The cells from a single progenitor cell form a proliferative unit that creates one cortical column; these columns contain a variety of neurons with different shapes.\n\n"}
{"id": "54602226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54602226", "title": "Q-principle", "text": "Q-principle\n\nIn the Neo-Gricean approach to semantics and pragmatics championed by Yale linguist Laurence Horn, the Q-Principle (\"Q\" for \"Quantity\") is a reformulation of Paul Grice's maxim of Quantity (\"see\" Gricean maxims) combined with the first two sub-maxims of Manner. The Q-principle states: \"Say as much as you can (given R).\" As such it interacts with the R-Principle, which states: \"Say no more than you must (given Q).\" \n\nThe Q-Principle leads to the implication that if the speaker did not make a stronger statement (or say more), then its denial is (implied to be) true. For instance, the inference from \"He entered a house\" to \"He did not enter his own house\" is Q-based inference, i.e. deriving from the Q-Principle. \n"}
{"id": "4651980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4651980", "title": "Rabia of Basra", "text": "Rabia of Basra\n\nRābiʿa al-ʿAdawiyya al-Qaysiyya () (714/717/718 — 801 CE) was a Muslim saint and Sufi mystic. She is known in some parts of the world as, Hazrat Bibi Rabia Basri, Rabia Al Basri or simply Rabia Basri.\n\nSaid to have been born between 714 and 718 CE (95 and 98 Hijri) in Basra, Iraq of the Qays tribe. much of Rābiʻas early life has been recounted by Farid ud-Din Attar, a later Sufi saint and poet. \n\nShe herself left no written works about her life. She was the fourth daughter of her family and therefore named Rābiʻa, meaning \"fourth\". \nAccording to Fariduddin Attar, when Rābiʻa was born, her parents were so poor that there was no oil in house to light a lamp, nor even a cloth to wrap her with. Her mother asked her husband to borrow some oil from a neighbor, but he had resolved in his life never to ask for anything from anyone except God. He pretended to go to the neighbor's door and returned home empty-handed. At night Muhammad appeared to him in a dream and told him,\"Your newly born daughter is a favorite of the Lord, and shall lead many Muslims to the right path. You should approach the Amir of Basra and present him with a letter in which should be written this message: 'You offer Durood to the Holy Prophet one hundred times every night and four hundred times every Thursday night. However, since you failed to observe the rule last Thursday, as a penalty you must pay the bearer four hundred dinars'\".\n\nHowever, after the death of her father, famine overtook Basra. She parted from her sisters. Rabia went into the desert to pray and became an ascetic, living a life of semi-seclusion. She is often cited as being the queen of saintly women, and was known for her complete devotion in the form of \"Pure unconditional love of God.\" As an exemplar among others devoted to God, she provided a model of mutual love between God and His creation; her example is one in which the loving devotee on earth becomes one with the Beloved.\n\nShe prayed:\"O Lord, if I worship You because of Fear of Hell,then burn me in Hell;\n\nIf I worship You because I desire Paradise,then exclude me from Paradise;\n\nBut if I worship You for Yourself alone,then deny me not your Eternal Beauty.\n\nRābiʻa died in her 80s in Basra in 185 AH/801 CE, where her tomb was shown outside the city.\n\nOften noted as having been the single most famous and influential renunciant women of Islamic history, Rābiʻa was renowned for her extreme virtue and piety. A devoted ascetic, when asked why she performed a thousand ritual prostrations both during the day and at night, she answered:\"I desire no reward for it; I do it so that the Messenger of God, may God bless him and give him peace, will delight in it on the day of Resurrection and say to the prophets, 'Take note of what a woman of my community has accomplished'\".\n\nShe was intense in her self-denial and devotion to God. She never claimed to have obtained unity with Him; instead, she dedicated her life to getting closer to God. As an explanation of her refusal to lift her head toward the heavens [to God] as an act of modesty, she used to say: \"Were the world the possession of a single man, it would not make him rich ... [B]ecause it is passing away.\"\n\nShe was the one who first set forth the doctrine of Divine Love known as \"Ishq-e-Haqeeqi\" and is widely considered to be the most important of the early renunciant, one mode of piety that would eventually become labeled as Sufism.\n\nMuch of the poetry that is attributed to her is of unknown origin. After a life of hardship, she spontaneously achieved a state of self-realization. She was able to perform divine miracles because of her intimacy with God through this introspection. When asked by Shaikh Hasan al-Basri how she discovered the secret, she responded by stating:\"You know of the how, but I know of the how-less.\"\n\nOne of the many myths that surround her life is that she was freed from slavery because her master saw her praying while surrounded by light, realized that she was a saint and feared for his life if he continued to keep her as a slave.\n\nSeveral aspects of the Sufi religion suggest that Sufi ideologies and practices have stood as counters to dominant society and its perception of women and the relationships between men and women. The stories detailing the life and practices of Rabi'a al-Adawiyya show a countercultural understanding of the role of gender in society. Her role as a spiritual and intellectual superiority is depicted in several narratives. In a Sufi narrative, Sufi leader Hasan al-Basri explained, \"I passed one whole night and day with Rabi'a ... it never passed through my mind that I was a man nor did it occur to her that she was a woman...when I looked at her I saw myself as bankrupt [i.e. as spiritually worth nothing] and Rabi'a as truly sincere [rich in spiritual virtue].\" However, she made a decision to stay celibate in order to leave her womanhood behind and devote herself completely to God.\n\nOne day, she was seen running through the streets of Basra carrying a pot of fire in one hand and a bucket of water in the other. When asked what she was doing, she said,\"I want to put out the fires of Hell, and burn down the rewards of Paradise. They block the way to Allah. I do not want to worship from fear of punishment or for the promise of reward, but simply for the love of Allah.\"\n\nThe life of Rabia has been the subject of several motion pictures by Turkish cinema. One of these films, \"Rabia\", released in 1973, was directed by Osman F. Seden, and Fatma Girik played the leading role of Rabia.\n\n\"Rabia, İlk Kadın Evliya\" (Rabia, The First Woman Saint), another Turkish film on Rabia, also of 1973 was directed by Süreyya Duru and starred by Hülya Koçyiğit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "366322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366322", "title": "Random act of kindness", "text": "Random act of kindness\n\nA random act of kindness is a nonpremeditated, inconsistent action designed to offer kindness towards the outside world. The phrase \"practice random kindness and senseless acts of beauty\" was written by Anne Herbert on a placemat in Sausalito, California in 1982. It was based on the phrase \"random acts of violence and senseless acts of cruelty\". Herbert's book \"Random Kindness and Senseless Acts of Beauty\" was published in February 1993 speaking about true stories of acts of kindness. \n\nThe phrase is commonly expressed as the suggestion to \"Practice random acts of kindness.\" There are groups around the world who sharing acts of spontaneous kindness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1665460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1665460", "title": "Rudolf Lingens", "text": "Rudolf Lingens\n\nRudolph Lingens is a fictional character often used by contemporary analytic philosophers as a placeholder name in a hypothetical scenario which illustrates some feature of the indexicality of natural language. He was created by the logician Gottlob Frege in the course of one of the earliest systematic discussions of indexicals. A number of philosophers picking up on Frege's discussion of indexicals, notably John Perry, David Lewis, and Robert Stalnaker, have adopted Lingens to make their own points about indexicals.\n\nLingens first appeared in Frege's influential essay 'Thought' ('Der Gedanke', published in \"Beiträge zur Philosophie des deutschen Idealismus I\" (1918–19), pp. 58–77). Mr. Lingens appears in the company of Leo Peter. Both are concerned with Dr. Gustav Lauben's having been wounded, and are later joined by Herbert Garner who is possessed of the knowledge that Gustav Lauben was born on 13 September 1875. Frege's discussion is concerned with how proper names and indexicals like 'I' function and how they are connected with the sense (or mode of presentation) that, on his account, each speaker who uses them associates with them.\n\nRudolph Lingens makes a number of appearances in the subsequent literature on Frege and on indexicals. Notably he occurs in an influential 1977 paper by John Perry ('Frege on Demonstratives'), in which Perry asks us to imagine Lingens as an amnesiac in Main Library at Stanford who comes to read a complete biography of himself. By reading the biography, Lingens comes to have a rich body of factual information about Rudolph Lingens, but he still fails to realize that (as we would put it) \"he himself\" is Lingens. Here we resort to natural language indexicals—\"he himself\"—to try to express what knowledge it is Lingens lacks; and our resort to such indexicals for expressing this knowledge seems to be ineliminable. Much of the philosophical literature on indexicality is concerned with trying to explicate the apparently \"essentially indexical\" character of the information Lingens lacks in Perry's imagined scenario.\n\nAttitudes that essentially require indexical reference to oneself to express—such as the belief Lingens would express by saying \"'I\" am Rudolph Lingens'—are often called \"de se\" attitudes.\n\nLingens reappears in David Lewis's 1979 paper on the topic ('Attitudes \"de dicto\" and \"de se\"') and also in a 1981 paper by Robert Stalnaker ('Indexical Belief'). Both philosophers are picking up on Perry's discussion. \n\nIn this paper, Stalnaker suggests that Lingens is the cousin of Bernard J. Ortcutt, a character originally created by W. V. O. Quine to illustrate the distinction between \"de dicto\" and \"de re\" attitude ascriptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "5007964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007964", "title": "Sacred Space (website)", "text": "Sacred Space (website)\n\nSacred Space is a prayer website which has achieved considerable fame since its foundation in 1999. It was created by two members of the Jesuit order, Alan McGuckian and Peter Scally, and was managed by the Jesuit Communication Centre, Dublin, Ireland, until June 2008. The site is updated daily, guiding users through a ten-minute session of prayer centered on a passage of scripture.\n\nThe notion of a website about prayer came to the two Jesuits when they were working in communications. McGuckian and Scally noticed that increasing numbers of office workers sit at a computer for hours every day, often doing repetitive work. They reasoned that people work better if they break that routine every now and again; and prayer is one way of breaking the routine. People as far away as the Arctic Circle and Australia log onto the site.\n\nSpeaking in \"The Tablet\", Jan 18, 2003, Scally stated, \"A person at the computer has a sense of privacy and intimacy; comfortable, upright, and attentive, subconsciously screening out all distractions, he concentrates on the screen -gazes in fact on that screen. What better description of the attitude of attentive listening to God?\"\n\nThe appeal of the Internet for prayer is perhaps understandable, not only because it provides the user with the privacy needed for personal prayer, but also because the multi media approach to prayer, now offered by many websites makes prayer more stimulating than a mental exercise.\n\n\"Sacred Space\" attracts over five million visits annually. Most of this traffic has been engendered by word of mouth. The website has been produced in almost thirty languages over the site's lifetime. This level of interest led an Australian publishing house, Michelle Anderson Publishing, to approach the Jesuit Communication Centre about bringing out a hard-copy version of the daily prayers. Ave Maria Press, Veritas and Jesuit Communications in Manila, also bring out annual volumes of \"Sacred Space - The Prayer Book\" of which a Kindle edition is also available from Amazon. Advent and Lent editions have proven popular and have helped thousands of people to bring the simple yet helpful structure to their prayer.\n\nAccording to Piaras Jackson, an Irish Jesuit priest who has been involved with the site for a number of years, only five percent of users are from Ireland. Of the English language section, most visitors are from the United States, Australia, Canada, and New Zealand. Piaras attributes the popularity of \"Sacred Space\" to the facts that it is immediately available 24/7, current with daily scripture readings; and allows anonymity, requiring no log-in. Last year alone its pages were viewed almost 30 million times from over 200 countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30314862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30314862", "title": "Semantic dictionary encoding", "text": "Semantic dictionary encoding\n\nSemantic dictionary encoding (SDE) preserves the full semantic context of source programs while adding further information that can be used for accelerating the speed of code generation. SDE forms a code-generating loader. It is a form of bytecode combined with a JIT compiler. It is code generation at load time.\n\nIn an elementary form, the dictionary entries represent nodes in a directed acyclic graph (DAG), that describes the actions of the program, as an abstract syntax tree (AST) in tabular form.\n\nIt uses an intermediate representation (IR), that is based on the encoded abstract syntax tree and symbol table of a program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53841431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53841431", "title": "Sergio Cotta", "text": "Sergio Cotta\n\nSergio Cotta (6 October 1920 – 3 May 2007) was an Italian philosopher and university professor. He was considered a specialist on the political thought of the Enlightenment. Sergio Cotta, along with André Masson and Robert Shackleton, was considered the most important interpreter of Montesquieu in the 20th century.\n\nCotta was educated in Florence, attending the La Querce Barnabiti Institute and the University of Florence. During the Second World War he was a resistance fighter against German occupation. He was the commander of a partisans Brigade of the VII Divisione Autonoma Monferrato and was decorated with the Italian bronze medal. His academic career took him to a variety of institutions, but he was primarily based at the Sapienza University of Rome from 1966 to 1990.\n\nSergio Cotta was born to Alberto Cotta, who was a scholar of forestry sciences, and Mary Nicolis di Robilant, of the aristocratic Robilant family. A direct descendant of the mathematician Leonhard Euler, he studied in Florence at the La Querce Barnabiti Institute and then enrolled at the Faculty of Political Science at the University of Florence where he graduated in 1945.\n\nOn the 8th September 1943, in Friuli, he was called to arms with the rank of Lieutenant, after the signing of the Italian armistice. With the German army losing, he sailed along the Adriatic to reach unoccupied Italy. After catching malaria, and several other trials, he reached Piedmont, where he was posted to the partisan brigade, the 7th Autonomous Division \"Monferrato\", as its commander. He was among the first to enter Turin on the days of liberation. For his participation in the Italian resistance movement, on the 24th September 1951, he was awarded the Bronze Medal of Military Valor and the 31st March 1952, the War Cross.\n\nIn 1945 he married Brozolo Elisabetta Radicati of Brozolo. The couple went on to have three children: Irene, Maurizio, and Gabriella.\n\nHe started his career at the University of Turin as assistant to Norberto Bobbio. He was promoted to ordinary professor, going on to teach at the University of Perugia, University of Trieste, University of Trento, University of Florence and finally in Rome. He was one of the promoters of the Faculty of Law of the D'Annunzio University in Teramo, where he taught philosophy of law. He held a position at the Sapienza University of Rome of Rome from 1966 to 1990, becoming the Chair of philosophy of law and, for some years, was also the director of the homonymous Institute Giorgio Del Vecchio. Retiring in 1995, he became a professor emeritus.\n\nHe was a corresponding member of the Turin Academy of Sciences (from 1965) and the 1995 national member of the Accademia dei Lincei. He was a corresponding member of the Institut de France and the Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques, and a member of the Buenos Aires Academy of Sciences. He was twice president of the Sorbonne International Center of Applied Political Philosophy ().\n\nHe held the position of President of the Union of Italian Catholic Jurists and of the International Union of Catholic Jurists. It was among the members of the Promoter Committee of the 1974 Referendum of the Divorce Act.\n\nHis pupils included Francesco D'Agostino, Bruno Montanari, Gaetano Carcaterra, Bruno Romano, Domenico Fisichella and the singer Antonello Vaidyanathan.\n\nAfter studying the political thought of the Enlightenment, Cotta's interests focused on the philosophy of law, which he was able to blend with elements of the phenomenological tradition. From the 1950s he published many articles and monographs on the political vision of Montesquieu, Gaetano Filangieri, St. Thomas Aquinas and St. Augustine, devoting himself to theoretical reflections on law and politics. He was the director of the \"International Magazine of Philosophy of Law\". His works have been translated into French, Greek, English, Portuguese and Spanish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7186473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7186473", "title": "Shadrach Woods", "text": "Shadrach Woods\n\nShadrach Woods (June 30, 1923 – July 31, 1973) was an American architect, urban planner and theorist.\n\nSchooled in engineering at New York University and in literature and philosophy at Trinity College, Dublin, Woods joined the Paris office of Le Corbusier in 1948. Assigned to the project for the \"Unité d'Habitation\", then under construction in Marseille, France, Woods met the Azerbaijan-born Greek architect George Candilis, with whom he would later form a lasting partnership.\n\nWith Candilis and the engineer Vladimir Bodiansky, Woods designed and built housing throughout North Africa during his tenure as head of the Casablanca office of ATBAT-Afrique (\"Atelier des Bâtisseurs\"). Ideas developed during the course of this work led to a winning proposal for \"Opération Million\", a public housing competition in France, in 1954. Commissioned by the welfare state to design thousands of suburban housing units, Woods and Candilis joined with the Yugoslavian architect Alexis Josic to create in 1956 the firm Candilis-Josic-Woods.\n\nAmong the firm's major built projects were the extension of the village of Bagnols-sur-Cèze and the development of the quarter of Le Mirail in Toulouse in France and, with Manfred Schieldhelm, the Free University in Berlin. Simultaneously, Candilis and Woods participated in the proceedings of Team X, a group of architects that emerged from the meetings of CIAM in the postwar years. Woods is perhaps best known as a thinker and writer. He published numerous essays on urban themes, including explanations of his concepts of \"stem\" and \"web\", and participated in the 1968 Milan Triennale at the invitation of the Italian architect and fellow Team X member Giancarlo de Carlo.\n\nAfter the breakup of the firm in 1969, Woods returned to New York City. He taught at Harvard and Yale universities and lectured widely. Until his untimely death in 1973, he continued to work as an architect and urban planner on such projects as the Lower Manhattan Expressway and the renovation of the SoHo neighborhood. His book \"The Man in the Street: A Polemic on Urbanism\" was published posthumously by Penguin in 1975. Woods' architectural drawings and papers are now held by the Drawings and Archives Department of Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "380183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380183", "title": "Student Pugwash USA", "text": "Student Pugwash USA\n\nStudent Pugwash USA engages students to promote the socially responsible use of science and technology in the 21st century. The organization uses a chapter-based model on U.S. college campuses, in addition to other student-focused events run by the national Board of Directors. The student members discuss the ethical, social and global implications of advances in these fields and explore the pursuit of socially responsible careers involving science and technology. SPUSA is the U.S. affiliate of International Student/Young Pugwash and the US student affiliate of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, recipients of the 1995 Nobel Peace Prize.\n\nAs an educational nonprofit organization, SPUSA does not adopt advocacy positions on policy or political issues or candidates. The organization posits that, in order to create effective social change, students must first understand the issues at stake, then contemplate their ethical and moral responsibility to themselves and to society as a whole. Its stated purpose is not to advance a particular ethical viewpoint regarding scientific and technological issues, but rather to encourage students to consider ethics when thinking about the role of science and technology in society.\n\nSPUSA was founded in 1979 by UC San Diego student Jeffrey Leifer, with the fundamental belief that young people play a vital role in determining the socially responsible application of science and technology. In 1955 Albert Einstein, Bertrand Russell, and other eminent scientists issued a manifesto urging scientists to \"think in a new way\" about their moral responsibilities in the nuclear age. In 1957, the first Pugwash Conference was held in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, bringing together some of the greatest scientific minds to address nuclear weapons issues and the social responsibility of scientists. SPUSA strives to convene the next generation of scientists around today's parallel issues.\n\nSPUSA is the US student affiliate of the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs, recipients of the 1995 Nobel Peace Prize, and the U.S.A. affiliate of the International Student/Young Pugwash.\n\nA long-standing icon of the organization has been Albert Einstein, for his commitment to advancing both science and its peaceful use. Another icon is Professor Joseph Rotblat, who was the co-founder of Pugwash and the only scientist to leave the Manhattan Project, refusing to work further on the atomic bomb after the Nazis were defeated. In response to Rotblat's call for an ethical Hippocratic Oath for scientists, Student Pugwash created a student pledge, calling young scientists to make a personal commitment to use science and technology in a socially responsible way. In 1999, Student Pugwash initiated the Joseph Rotblat Lecture on Science and Social Responsibility in honor of Rotblat's pioneering life dedicated to the responsible use of science.\n\nFollowing a decrease in revenue related to the late 2000s recession, the organization returned to its student-run founding with former student board members Sharlissa Moore and Kyle Gracey leading the rebuilding.\n\nThe mission of Student Pugwash USA is \"to promote social responsibility in science and technology.\" It seeks to achieve this by:\n\nActivities have included regional, national and international conferences, speaker events at campuses through a national chapter network, and compilation of issue briefs on scientific and technical issues of social importance. Student Pugwash also maintains a student email list, a web log covering the ethical intersection of science and technology policy, and a database of socially responsible employers.\n\nA science and technology election guide for the 2004 U.S. presidential election was profiled in the journal \"Science\". This project was continued with the launch of \"From Electrons to Elections\", a science and technology policy guide to the 2008 and 2012 elections. From Electrons to Elections is a non-partisan resource designed to educate young voters on science, technology, and health issues and provide them with the platforms of the leading political candidates on these subjects.\n\nTo encourage commitment to socially responsible applications of science and technology, Student Pugwash USA offers the following pledge for individuals to sign:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57173980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57173980", "title": "Susan L. Feagin", "text": "Susan L. Feagin\n\nSusan L. Feagin (born 11 July 1948) is a philosopher of art, working in the analytic tradition. She is currently Vice President of the American Society for Aesthetics and Visiting Research Professor (Retired) in the Department of Philosophy at Temple University. She is known primarily for her work on the role of emotions in art.\n\nFeagin received a BA degree in Philosophy from Florida State University. She then completed both an MA and a PhD in Philosophy at the University of Wisconsin.\n\nBefore coming to Temple she held teaching and research positions at the University of Wisconsin and University of Missouri-Kansas City. From 2003 to 2013 she was the Editor of the Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism. In 2016 she gave the Richard Wollheim Lecture at the Annual Meeting of the British Society of Aesthetics at the University of Oxford.\n\n"}
{"id": "2192895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2192895", "title": "The Relativity of Wrong", "text": "The Relativity of Wrong\n\nThe Relativity of Wrong is a collection of seventeen essays on science, written by Isaac Asimov. The book explores and contrasts the viewpoint that \"all theories are proven wrong in time\", arguing that there exist degrees of wrongness.\n\nThe book was the twentieth of a series of books collecting essays from \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\". Like most of the essays Asimov wrote for \"F&SF\", each one in \"The Relativity of Wrong\" begins with an autobiographical anecdote which serves to set the mood. Several of the essays form a sequence explaining the discovery and uses of isotopes.\n\nIn the title essay, Asimov argues that there exist degrees of wrongness, and being wrong in one way is not necessarily as bad as being wrong in another way. For example, if a child spells the word \"sugar\" as \"pqzzf\", the child is clearly incorrect. Yet, Asimov says, a child who spells the word \"shuger\" (or in some other phonetic way) is \"less wrong\" than one who writes a random sequence of letters. Furthermore, a child who writes \"sucrose\" or \"CHO\" completely disregards the \"correct\" spelling but shows a degree of knowledge about the real thing under study. Asimov proposes that a better test question would ask the student to spell \"sugar\" in as many ways as possible, justifying each.\n\nLikewise, believing that the Earth is a sphere is less wrong than believing that the Earth is flat, but wrong nonetheless, since it is really an oblate spheroid or a reasonable approximation thereof. As the state of knowledge advanced, the statement of the Earth's shape became more refined, and each successive advance required a more careful and subtle investigation. Equating the wrongness of the theory that the Earth is flat with the wrongness of the theory that the Earth is a perfect sphere is \"wronger than wrong\".\n\nAsimov wrote \"The Relativity of Wrong\" in response to an \"English Literature major\" who criticized him for believing in scientific progress. This unnamed individual is portrayed by Asimov as having taken the postmodern viewpoint that all scientific explanations of the world are equally in error. Irritated, the rationalist Asimov put forth his views in his monthly \"F&SF\" column, and the result became the title essay of this collection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13489772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13489772", "title": "The Scientist as Rebel", "text": "The Scientist as Rebel\n\nThe Scientist as Rebel is a 2006 book by the renowned prize-winning theoretical physicist Freeman Dyson. A few of the twenty-nine chapters in this book deals with the interactions of religion and science. \n"}
{"id": "3284275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3284275", "title": "The Spiral Dance", "text": "The Spiral Dance\n\nThe Spiral Dance: a Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Great Goddess is a best-selling book about Neopagan belief and practice written by Starhawk. It was first published in 1979, with a second edition in 1989 and a third edition in 1999. Since its publication, it has become a classic book on Wicca and modern witchcraft, spiritual feminism and the Goddess movement, and ecofeminism. The book has been translated into other languages, including German and Danish.\n\n\"The Spiral Dance\" is Starhawk's first and most famous book. After a failed attempt to become a fiction writer in New York City, she returned to California, and became active in the Neopagan community in the San Francisco Bay Area. She decided to try her hand at nonfiction and wrote a book on Goddess religion, which she finished in 1977 but was unable to publish at first. Her luck changed when feminist religious scholar Carol P. Christ included an article on Witchcraft and the Goddess movement in the anthology \"Womanspirit Rising\" (1979). Christ put Starhawk in touch with an editor at Harper & Row, who eventually published the book. In 1979, partly to commemorate the publication of the book, Starhawk and her friends staged a public celebration of the Neopagan holiday of Samhain (Halloween) incorporating an actual spiral dance. This group became the Reclaiming Collective; the annual Spiral Dance ritual now draws hundreds of participants.\n\nThe book was revised for 10th- and 20th-anniversary editions in 1989 and 1999, respectively. The original text of the book was left largely untouched. The revisions consist for the most part of introductions and notes reflecting on the origins of the book and the rituals it describes, and changes to the author's beliefs and practices since writing the book.\n\nAlthough commonly read as a book on Wicca, \"The Spiral Dance\" is distinguished by its visionary mysticism and ecstatic experience, and by its emphasis on women and the Goddess (although it also brings in the God, similar to most forms of Wicca). Starhawk trained with Victor Anderson, founder of the Feri Tradition of witchcraft, and with Zsuzsanna Budapest, a feminist separatist involved in Dianic Wicca.\n\nIn \"The Spiral Dance\", Starhawk stated that up to nine million people, mostly women, were killed during the Witch Hunts in early modern Europe. The number was based on an article by Mary Daly, who based it on the writings of the 19th century feminist Matilda Joslyn Gage, and has no basis in research. (Most estimates based on research range from 60,000–100,000.) In the book's 10th anniversary edition, she states: \"Actually, estimates range between a low of one hundred thousand and this figure [nine million], which is probably high. The truth, clearly, is that nobody knows exactly how many people died in the persecutions.\"\n"}
{"id": "838801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=838801", "title": "Thomism", "text": "Thomism\n\nThomism is the philosophical school that arose as a legacy of the work and thought of Thomas Aquinas (1225–1274), philosopher, theologian, and Doctor of the Church. In philosophy, Aquinas' disputed questions and commentaries on Aristotle are perhaps his most well-known works. In theology, his \"Summa Theologica\" is one of the most influential documents in medieval theology and continues to be the central point of reference for the philosophy and theology of the Catholic Church. In the 1914 encyclical \"Doctoris Angelici\" Pope Pius X cautioned that the teachings of the Church cannot be understood without the basic philosophical underpinnings of Aquinas' major theses: \n\nThe Second Vatican Council described Aquinas' system as the \"Perennial Philosophy\".\n\nThomas Aquinas believed that truth is to be accepted no matter where it is found. His doctrines draw from Greek, Roman, Jewish, philosophers. Specifically, he was a realist (i.e., he, unlike the skeptics, believed that the world can be known as it is). He largely followed Aristotelian terminology and metaphysics, and wrote comprehensive commentaries on Aristotle, often affirming Aristotle's views with independent arguments. Aquinas respectfully referred to Aristotle simply as \"the Philosopher\". He also adhered to some neoplatonic principles, for example that \"it is absolutely true that there is first something which is essentially being and essentially good, which we call God, ... [and that] everything can be called good and a being, inasmuch as it \"participates\" in it by way of a certain assimilation...\"\n\nWith the decree \"Postquam sanctissimus\" of 27 July 1914, Pope Pius X declared that 24 theses formulated by \"teachers from various institutions ... clearly contain the principles and more important thoughts\" of Aquinas. Principal contributors to the Church's official statement of the \"24 Theses\" of Thomism include Dominican philosopher and theologian Edouard Hugon of the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" and Jesuit philosopher theologian Guido Mattiussi of the Pontifical Gregorian University.\n\nAquinas says that the fundamental axioms of ontology are the principle of non-contradiction and the principle of causality. Therefore, any being that does not contradict these two laws could theoretically exist, even if said being were incorporeal.\n\nAquinas noted three forms of descriptive language when predicating: univocal, analogical, and equivocal.\n\nFurther, the usage of \"definition\" that Aquinas gives is the genus of the being, plus a difference that sets it apart from the genus itself. For instance, the Aristotelian definition of \"man\" is \"rational animal\"; its genus being animal, and what sets apart man from other animals is his rationality.\n\nIn Thomist philosophy, the definition of a being is \"that which is,\" which is composed of two parts: \"which\" refers to its \"quiddity\" (literally \"whatness\"), and \"is\" refers to its \"esse\" (the Latin infinitive verb \"to be\"). \"Quiddity\" is synonymous with essence, form and nature; whereas \"esse\"\" refers to the principle of the being's existence. In other words, a being is \"an essence that exists.\"\n\nBeing is divided in two ways: that which is \"in itself\" (substances), and that which is \"in another\" (accidents). Substances are things which exist \"per se\" or in their own right. Accidents are qualities that apply to other things, such as shape or color: \"[A]ccidents must include in their definition a subject which is outside their genus.\" Because they only exist in other things, Aquinas holds that metaphysics is primarily the study of substances, as they are the primary mode of being.\n\n\"The Catholic Encyclopedia\" pinpoints Aquinas' definition of \"quiddity\" as \"that which is expressed by its definition.\" The \"quiddity\" or form of a thing is what makes the object what it is: \"[T]hrough the form, which is the actuality of matter, matter becomes something actual and something individual,\" and also, \"the form causes matter to be.\" Thus, it consists of two parts: \"prime matter\" (matter without form), and substantial form, which is what causes a substance to have its characteristics. For instance, an animal can be said to be a being whose matter is its body, and whose soul is its substantial form. Together, these consist of its \"quiddity\"/essence.\n\nAll real things have the transcendental properties of being: oneness, truth, goodness (that is, all things have a final cause and therefore a purpose), etc.\n\nAristotle categorized causality into four subsets in the \"Metaphysics\", which is an integral part of Thomism:\n\nUnlike many ancient Greeks, who thought that an infinite regress of causality is possible (and thus held that the universe is uncaused), Aquinas argues that an infinite chain never accomplishes its objective and is thus impossible. Hence, a first cause is necessary for the existence of anything to be possible. Further, the First Cause must continuously be in action (similar to how there must always be a first chain in a chain link), otherwise the series collapses:\n\nThus, both Aristotle and Aquinas conclude that there must be an uncaused Primary Mover, because an infinite regress is impossible.\n\nHowever, the First Cause does not necessarily have to be temporally the first. Thus, the question of whether or not the universe can be imagined as eternal was fiercely debated in the Middle Ages. The University of Paris's condemnation of 1270 denounced the belief that the world is eternal. Aquinas' intellectual rival, Bonaventure, held that the temporality of the universe is demonstrable by reason. Aquinas' position was that the temporality of the world is an article of faith, and not demonstrable by reason; though one could reasonably conclude either that the universe is temporal or eternal.\n\nAs per the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" of Aristotle, Aquinas defines \"the good\" as what all things strive for. E.g., a cutting knife is said to be good if it is effective at its function, cutting. As all things have a function/final cause, all real things are good. Consequently, evil is nothing but \"privatio boni\", or \"lack of good\", as Augustine of Hippo defined it.\n\nCommentating on the aforementioned, Aquinas says that \"there is no problem from the fact that some men desire evil. For they desire evil only under the aspect of good, that is, insofar as they think it good. Hence their intention primarily aims at the good and only incidentally touches on the evil.\"\n\nAs God is the ultimate end of all things, God is by essence goodness itself. Furthermore, since love is \"to wish the good of another,\" true love in Thomism is to lead another to God. Hence why John the Evangelist says, \"Whoever is without love does not know God, for God is love.\"\n\nThomas Aquinas holds that the existence of God can be demonstrated by reason, a view that is taught by the Catholic Church. The \"quinque viae\" (Latin: five ways) found in the \"Summa Theologica\" (I, Q.2, art.3) are five possible ways of demonstrating the existence of God, which today are categorized as:\nDespite this, Aquinas also thought that sacred mysteries such as the Trinity could only be obtained through revelation; though these truths cannot contradict reason:\n\nAquinas responds to the problem of evil by saying that God allows evil to exist that good may come of it, (for goodness done out of free will is superior than goodness done from biological imperative) but does not personally cause evil Himself.\n\nSee also \"Reality: A Synthesis of Thomistic Thought\": Chapter 7: The Proofs Of God's Existence by Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange.\n\nAquinas articulated and defended, both as a philosopher and a theologian, the orthodox Christian view of God. God is the sole being whose existence is the same as His essence: \"what subsists in God is His existence.\" (Hence why God names himself \"I Am that I Am\" in Exodus 3:14.) Consequently, God cannot be a body (that is, He cannot be composed of matter), He cannot have any accidents, and He must be simple (that is, not separated into parts; the Trinity is one substance in three persons). Further, He is goodness itself, perfect, infinite, omnipotent, omniscient, happiness itself, knowledge itself, love itself, omnipresent, immutable, and eternal. Summing up these properties, Aquinas offers the term \"actus purus\" (Latin: \"pure actuality\").\n\nAquinas held that not only does God have knowledge of everything, but that God has \"the most perfect knowledge,\" and that it is also true to say that God \"is\" His understanding.\n\nAquinas also understands God as the transcendent cause of the universe, the \"first Cause of all things, exceeding all things caused by Him,\" the source of all creaturely being and the cause of every other cause. Consequently, God's causality is not like the causality of any other causes (all other causes are \"secondary causes\"), because He is the transcendent source of all being, causing and sustaining every other existing thing at every instant. Consequently, God's causality is never in competition with the causality of creatures; rather, God even causes some things through the causality of creatures.\n\nAquinas was an advocate of the \"analogical way\", which says that because God is infinite, people can only speak of God by analogy, for some of the aspects of the divine nature are hidden (\"Deus absconditus\") and others revealed (\"Deus revelatus\") to finite human minds. Thomist philosophy holds that we can know \"about\" God through his creation (general revelation), but only in an analogous manner. For instance, we can speak of God's goodness only by understanding that goodness as applied to humans is similar to, but not identical with, the goodness of God. Further, he argues that sacred scripture employs figurative language: \"Now it is natural to man to attain to intellectual truths through sensible objects, because all our knowledge originates from sense. Hence in Holy Writ, spiritual truths are fittingly taught under the \"likeness\" of material things.\"\n\nIn order to demonstrate God's creative power, Aquinas says: \"If a being participates, to a certain degree, in an 'accident,' this accidental property must have been communicated to it by a cause which possesses it essentially. Thus iron becomes incandescent by the action of fire. Now, God is His own power which subsists by itself. The being which subsists by itself is necessarily one.\"\n\nIn addition to agreeing with the Aristotelian definition of man as \"the rational animal,\" Aquinas also held various other beliefs about the substance of man. For instance, as the essence (nature) of all men are the same, and the definition of being is \"an essence that exists,\" humans that are real therefore only differ by their specific qualities. More generally speaking, all beings of the same genus have the same essence, and so long as they exist, only differ by accidents and substantial form.\n\nThomists define the soul as the substantial form of living beings. Thus, plants have \"vegetative souls,\" animals have \"sensitive souls,\" while human beings alone have \"intellectual\" – rational and immortal – souls.\n\nThe appetite of man has two parts, rational and irrational. The rational part is called the will, and the irrational part is called passion.\n\nAquinas affirms Aristotle's definition of happiness as \"an operation according to perfect virtue\", and that \"happiness is called man's supreme good, because it is the attainment or enjoyment of the supreme good.\" Regarding what the virtues are, Aquinas ascertained the cardinal virtues to be prudence, temperance, justice, and fortitude. The cardinal virtues are natural and revealed in nature, and they are binding on everyone. There are, however, three theological virtues: faith, hope, and charity (which is used interchangeably with love in the sense of \"agape\"). These are supernatural and are distinct from other virtues in their object, namely, God.\n\nIn accordance with Roman Catholic theology, Aquinas argues that humans can neither wish nor do good without divine grace. However, \"doing good\" here refers to doing good per se: man \"can\" do, moved by God even then but \"only\" in the sense in which even his nature depends on God's moving, things that happen to be good in some respect, and are not sinful, though if he has not grace, it will be without merit, and he will not succeed in it all the time. Therefore, happiness is attained through the perseverance of virtue given by the Grace of God, which is not fully attained on earth; only at the beatific vision. Notably, man cannot attain true happiness without God.\n\nRegarding emotion (used synonymously with the word \"passion\" in this context), which, following John Damascene, Aquinas defines as \"a movement of the sensitive appetite when we imagine good or evil,\" Thomism repudiates both the Epicurean view that happiness consists in pleasure (sensual experiences that invoke positive emotion), and the Stoic view that emotions are vices by nature. Aquinas takes a moderate view of emotion, quoting Augustine: \"They are evil if our love is evil; good if our love is good.\" While most emotions are morally neutral, some are inherently virtuous (e.g. pity) and some are inherently vicious (e.g. envy).\n\nThomist ethics hold that it is necessary to observe both circumstances and intention to determine an action's moral value, and therefore Aquinas cannot be said to be strictly either a deontologicalist or a consequentialist. Rather, he would say that an action is morally good if it fulfills God's antecedent will.\n\nOf note is the principle of double effect, formulated in the \"Summa\", II-II, Q.64, art.7, which is a justification of homicide in self-defense. Previously experiencing difficulties in the world of Christian philosophy, the doctrine of Just War was expounded by Aquinas with this principle. He says:\n\nThomism recognizes four different species of law, which he defines as \"an ordinance of reason for the common good, made by him who has care of the community, and promulgated\":\n\nThe development of natural law is one of the most influential parts of Thomist philosophy. Aquinas says that \"[the law of nature] is nothing other than the light of the intellect planted in us by God, by which we know what should be done and what should be avoided. God gave this light and this law in creation... For no one is ignorant that what he would not like to be done to himself he should not do to others, and similar norms.\" This reflects Paul the Apostle's argument in Romans 2:15, that the \"work of the law [is] written in [the Gentiles'] hearts, their conscience bearing witness to them.\"\n\nAquinas argues that the Mosaic covenant was divine, though rightfully only given to the Jews before Christ; whereas the New Covenant replaces the Old Covenant and is meant for all humans.\n\nAquinas argues that there is no contradiction between God's providence and human free will:\n\nAquinas argues that God offers man both a prevenient grace to enable him to perform supernaturally good works, and cooperative grace within the same. The relation of prevenient grace to voluntariness has been the subject of further debate; the position known here as \"Thomist\" was originated by Domingo Báñez and says that God gives an additional grace (the \"efficient grace\") to the predestined which makes them accept, while Luis de Molina held that God distributes grace according to a middle knowledge, and man can accept it without a different grace. Molinism is a school that is part of Thomism in the general sense (it originated in commentaries to Aquinas), yet it must be born in mind that, here, Thomism and Molinism oppose each other. (The question has been declared undecided by the Holy See.)\n\nAquinas adhered to the correspondence theory of truth, which says that something is true \"when it conforms to the external reality.\" Therefore, any being that exists can be said to be true insofar that it participates in the world.\n\nAristotle's \"De anima\" (\"On the Soul\") divides the mind into three parts: sensation, imagination and intellection. When one perceives an object, his mind composites a sense-image. When he remembers the object he previously sensed, he is imagining its form (the image of the imagination is often translated as \"phantasm\"). When he extracts information from this phantasm, he is using his intellect. Consequently, all human knowledge concerning universals (such as species and properties) are derived from the phantasm (\"the received is in the receiver according to the mode of the receiver\"), which itself is a recollection of an experience. Concerning the question of \"Whether the intellect can actually understand through the intelligible species of which it is possessed, without turning to the phantasms?\" in the \"Summa Theologica\", Aquinas quotes Aristotle in the \"sed contra\": \"the soul understands nothing without a phantasm.\" Hence the peripatetic axiom. (Another theorem to be drawn from this is that error is a result of drawing false conclusions based on our sensations.)\n\nAquinas' epistemological theory would later be classified as empiricism, for holding that sensations are a necessary step in acquiring knowledge, and that deductions cannot be made from pure reason.\n\nAquinas shifted Scholasticism away from neoplatonism and towards Aristotle. The ensuing school of thought, through its influence on Catholicism and the ethics of the Catholic school, is one of the most influential philosophies of all time, also significant due to the number of people living by its teachings.\nBefore Aquinas' death, Stephen Tempier, Bishop of Paris, forbade certain positions associated with Aquinas (especially his denial of both universal \"hylomorphism\" and a plurality of substantial forms in a single substance) to be taught in the Faculty of Arts at Paris. Through the influence of traditional Augustinian theologians, some theses of Aquinas were condemned in 1277 by the ecclesiastical authorities of Paris and Oxford (the most important theological schools in the Middle Ages). The Franciscan Order opposed the ideas of the Dominican Aquinas, while the Dominicans institutionally took up the defense of his work (1286), and thereafter adopted it as an official philosophy of the order to be taught in their \"studia\". Early opponents of Aquinas include William de la Mare, Henry of Ghent, Giles of Rome, and Jon Duns Scotus.\n\nEarly and noteworthy defenders of Aquinas were his former teacher Albertus Magnus, the ill-fated Richard Knapwell, William Macclesfeld, Giles of Lessines, John of Quidort, Bernard of Auvergne, and Thomas of Sutton. The canonization of Aquinas in 1323 led to a revocation of the condemnation of 1277. Later, Aquinas and his school would find a formidable opponent in the \"via moderna\", particularly in William of Ockham and his adherents.\n\nThomism remained a doctrine held principally by Dominican theologians, such as Giovanni Capreolo (1380–1444) or Tommaso de Vio (1468–1534). Eventually, in the 16th century, Thomism found a stronghold on the Iberian Peninsula, through for example the Dominicans Francisco de Vitoria (particularly noteworthy for his work in natural law theory), Domingo de Soto (notable for his work on economic theory), John of St. Thomas, and Domingo Báñez; the Carmelites of Salamanca (i.e., the Salmanticenses); and even, in a way, the newly formed Jesuits, particularly Francisco Suárez, and Luis de Molina.\n\nThe modern period brought considerable difficulty for Thomism. By the 19th century, Aquinas's theological doctrine was often presented in seminaries through his Jesuit manualist interpreters, who adopted his theology in an eclectic way, while his philosophy was often neglected altogether in favor of modern philosophers. Many think the manualist approach had more in common with Duns Scotus than it did with Aquinas—thus is more properly labeled Neo-Scholasticism. And in all this, the Dominican Order, was having demographic difficulties. Pope Leo XIII attempted a Thomistic revival, particularly with his 1879 encyclical \"Aeterni Patris\" and his establishment of the Leonine Commission, established to produce critical editions of Aquinas' \"opera omnia\". This encyclical served as the impetus for the rise of Neothomism, which brought an emphasis on the ethical parts of Thomism, as well as a large part of its views on life, humans, and theology, are found in the various schools of Neothomism. Neothomism held sway as the dominant philosophy of the Roman Catholic Church until the Second Vatican Council, which seemed to confirm the significance of Ressourcement theology. Thomism remains a school of philosophy today, and influential in Catholicism, though \"The Church has no philosophy of her own nor does she canonize any one particular philosophy in preference to others.\"\n\nIn recent years, the cognitive neuroscientist Walter Freeman proposes that Thomism is the philosophical system explaining cognition that is most compatible with neurodynamics, in a 2008 article in the journal \"Mind and Matter\" entitled \"Nonlinear Brain Dynamics and Intention According to Aquinas.\"\n\nAquinas' doctrines, because of their close relationship with those of Jewish philosophy, found great favor among Jews. Judah Romano (born 1286) translated Aquinas' ideas from Latin into Hebrew under the title \"Ma'amar ha-Mamschalim\", together with other small treatises extracted from the \"Contra Gentiles\" (\"Neged ha-Umot\").\n\nEli Habillo (1470) translated, without the Hebrew title, the \"Quæstiones Disputatæ,\" \"Quæstio de Anima,\" his \"De Animæ Facultatibus,\" under the title \"Ma'amar be-KoḦot ha-Nefesh,\" (edited by Jellinek); his \"De Universalibus\" as \"Be-Inyan ha-Kolel\"; \"Shaalot Ma'amar beNimẓa we-biMehut.\"\n\nAbraham Nehemiah ben Joseph (1490) translated Aquinas's \"Commentarii in Metaphysicam.\" According to Moses Almosnino, Isaac Abravanel desired to translate the \"Quæstio de Spiritualibus Creaturis.\" Abravanel indeed seems to have been well acquainted with the philosophy of Aquinas, whom he mentions in his work \"Mif'alot Elohim\" (vi. 3). The physician Jacob Zahalon (d. 1693) translated some extracts from the \"Summa contra Gentiles\".\n\nAquinas did not disdain to draw upon Jewish philosophical sources. His main work, the \"Summa Theologica\", shows a profound knowledge not only of the writings of Avicebron (Ibn Gabirol), whose name he mentions, but also of most Jewish philosophical works then existing.\n\nAquinas pronounces himself energetically against the hypothesis of the eternity of the world, in agreement with both Christian and Jewish theology. But as this theory is attributed to Aristotle, he seeks to demonstrate that the latter did not express himself categorically on this subject. \"The argument,\" said he, \"which Aristotle presents to support this thesis is not properly called a demonstration, but is only a reply to the theories of those ancients who supposed that this world had a beginning and who gave only impossible proofs. There are three reasons for believing that Aristotle himself attached only a relative value to this reasoning...\" In this, Aquinas paraphrases Maimonides' \"Guide for the Perplexed\", where those reasons are given.\n\nThomism began to decline in popularity in the modern period, which was inaugurated by René Descartes' works \"Discourse on the Method\" in 1637 and \"Meditations on First Philosophy\" in 1641. The Cartesian doctrines of mind–body dualism and the fallibility of the senses implicitly contradicted Aristotle and Aquinas:\n\nIn describing Thomism as a philosophy of common sense, G. K. Chesterton wrote:\nJ. A. Weisheipl emphasizes that within the Dominican Order the history of Thomism has been continuous since the time of Aquinas:\nAn idea of the longstanding historic continuity of Dominican Thomism may be derived from the list of people associated with the Pontifical University of St. Thomas Aquinas.\n\nOutside the Dominican Order Thomism has had varying fortunes leading some to periodize it historically or thematically. Weisheipl distinguishes \"wide\" Thomism, which includes those who claim to follow the spirit and basic insights of Aquinas and manifest an evident dependence on his texts, from \"eclectic\" Thomism which includes those with a willingness to allow the influence of other philosophical and theological systems in order to relativize the principles and conclusions of traditional Thomism. John Haldane gives an historic division of Thomism including 1) the period of Aquinas and his first followers from the 13th to 15th centuries, a second Thomism from the 16th to 18th centuries, and a Neo-Thomism from the 19th to 20th centuries. One might justifiably articulate other historical divisions on the basis of shifts in perspective on Aquinas' work including the period immediately following Aquinas' canonization in 1325, the period following the Council of Trent, and the period after the Second Vatican Council. Romanus Cessario thinks it better not to identify intervals of time or periods within the larger history of Thomism because Thomists have addressed such a broad variety of issues and in too many geographical areas to permit such divisions.\n\nThe first period of Thomism stretches from Aquinas' teaching activity beginning in 1256 at Paris to Cologne, Orvieto, Viterbo, Rome, and Naples until his canonization in 1325. In this period his doctrines \"were both attacked and defended\" as for example after his death (1274) the condemnations of 1277, 1284 and 1286 were counteracted by the General Chapters of the Dominican Order and other disciples who came to Aquinas' defense.\n\nResponding to prevailing philosophical rationalism during the Enlightenment Salvatore Roselli, professor of theology at the College of St. Thomas, the future Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in Rome, published a six volume \"Summa philosophica\" (1777) giving an Aristotelian interpretation of Aquinas validating the senses as a source of knowledge. While teaching at the College Roselli is considered to have laid the foundation for Neothomism in the nineteenth century. According to historian J.A. Weisheipl in the late 18th and early 19th centuries \"everyone who had anything to do with the revival of Thomism in Italy, Spain and France was directly influenced by Roselli’s monumental work.\n\nThe Thomist revival that began in the mid-19th century, sometimes called \"neo-scholasticism\" or \"neo-Thomism,\" can be traced to figures such as \"Angelicum\" professor Tommaso Maria Zigliara, Jesuits Josef Kleutgen, and Giovanni Maria Cornoldi, and secular priest Gaetano Sanseverino. This movement received impetus from Pope Leo XIII's encyclical \"Aeterni Patris\" of 1879. Generally the revival accepts the interpretative tradition of Aquinas' great commentators such as Capréolus, Cajetan, and John of St. Thomas. Its focus, however, is less exegetical and more concerned with carrying out the program of deploying a rigorously worked out system of Thomistic metaphysics in a wholesale critique of modern philosophy. Other seminal figures in the early part of the century include Martin Grabmann (1875-1949) and Amato Masnovo (1880-1955). The movement's core philosophical commitments are summarized in \"Twenty-Four Thomistic Theses\" approved by Pope Pius X. In the first half of the twentieth century \"Angelicum\" professors Edouard Hugon, Réginald Garrigou-Lagrange among others, carried on Leo's call for a Thomist revival. Their approach is reflected in many of the manuals and textbooks widely in use in Roman Catholic colleges and seminaries before Vatican II.\n\nWhile the Second Vatican Council took place from 1962-1965 Cornelio Fabro was already able to write in 1949 that the century of revival with its urgency to provide a synthetic systematization and defense of Aquinas' thought was coming to an end. Fabro looked forward to a more constructive period in which the original context of Aquinas' thought would be explored.\n\nA summary of some recent and current schools and interpretations of Thomism can be found, among other places, in \"La Metafisica di san Tommaso d'Aquino e i suoi interpreti\" (2002), by Battista Mondin, \"Being and Some 20th Century Thomists\" (2003), by John F. X. Knasas as well as in the writing of Edward Feser.\n\nNeo-Scholastic Thomism identifies with the philosophical and theological tradition stretching back to the time of St. Thomas. In the nineteenth century authors such as Tommaso Maria Zigliara focused not only on exegesis of the historical Aquinas but also on the articulation of a rigorous system of orthodox Thomism to be used as an instrument of critique of contemporary thought. Due to its suspicion of attempts to harmonize Aquinas with non-Thomistic categories and assumptions, Neo-Scholastic Thomism has sometimes been called \"strict observance Thomism.\" A discussion of recent and current Neo-Scholastic Thomism can be found in \"La Metafisica di san Tommaso d'Aquino e i suoi interpreti\" (2002) by Battista Mondin, which includes such figures as Martin Grabmann, Reginald Garrigou-Lagrange, Sofia Vanni Rovighi (1908–1990), Cornelio Fabro (1911–1995), Carlo Giacon (1900–1984), Tomáš Týn (1950–1990), Abelardo Lobato (1925–2012), Leo Elders (b. 1926) and Giovanni Ventimiglia (b. 1964) among others. Fabro in particular emphasizes Aquinas' originality, especially with respect to the \"actus essendi\" or act of existence of finite beings by participating in being itself. Other scholars such as those involved with the \"Progetto Tommaso\" seek to establish an objective and universal reading of Aquinas' texts.\n\nCracow Circle Thomism (named after Cracow) has been called \"the most significant expression of Catholic thought between the two World Wars.\" The Circle was founded by a group of philosophers and theologians that in distinction to more traditional Neo-Scholastic Thomism embraced modern formal logic as an analytical tool for traditional Thomist philosophy and theology. Inspired by the logical clarity of Aquinas, members of the Circle held both philosophy and theology to contain \"propositions with truth-values…a structured body of propositions connected in meaning and subject matter, and linked by logical relations of compatibility and incompatibility, entailment etc.\" \"The Cracow Circle set about investigating and where possible improving this logical structure with the most advanced logical tools available at the time, namely those of modern mathematical logic, then called 'logistic'.\" Perhaps the most famous exponent of the Cracow Circle is Józef Maria Bocheński, author of \"A History of Formal Logic\" (1961), and one of the preeminent twentieth-century historians of logic. Bocheński completed a doctorate in theology at the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in 1934 where he taught logic until 1940. Other members included Jan Salamucha and Jan F. Drewnowski.\n\nÉtienne Gilson (1884–1978), the key proponent of existential Thomism, tended to emphasize the importance of historical exegesis but also to deemphasize Aquinas's continuity with the Aristotelian tradition, and like Cornelio Fabro of the Neo-scholastic school, to highlight the originality of Aquinas's doctrine of being as existence. He was also critical of the Neo-Scholastics' focus on the tradition of the commentators, and given what he regarded as their insufficient emphasis on being or existence accused them of \"essentialism\" (to allude to the other half of Aquinas's distinction between being and essence). Gilson's reading of Aquinas as putting forward a distinctively \"Christian philosophy\" tended, at least in the view of his critics, to blur Aquinas's distinction between philosophy and theology. Jacques Maritain (1882–1973) introduced into Thomistic metaphysics the notion that philosophical reflection begins with an \"intuition of being,\" and in ethics and social philosophy sought to harmonize Thomism with personalism and pluralistic democracy. Though \"existential Thomism\" was sometimes presented as a counterpoint to modern existentialism, the main reason for the label is the emphasis this approach puts on Aquinas's doctrine of existence. Contemporary proponents include Joseph Owens and John F. X. Knasas. \n\nAccording to River Forest Thomism (named after River Forest, Illinois), the natural sciences are epistemologically prior to metaphysics, preferably called metascience. This approach emphasizes the Aristotelian foundations of Aquinas's philosophy, and in particular the idea that the construction of a sound metaphysics must be preceded by a sound understanding of natural science, as interpreted in light of an Aristotelian philosophy of nature. Accordingly, it is keen to show that modern physical science can and should be given such an interpretation. Charles De Koninck (1906–1965), Raymond Jude Nogar (1915–1966), James A. Weisheipl (1923–1984), William A. Wallace, and Benedict Ashley, are among its representatives. It is sometimes called \"Laval Thomism\" after the University of Laval in Quebec, where De Koninck was a professor. The alternative label \"River Forest Thomism\" derives from a suburb of Chicago, the location of the Albertus Magnus Lyceum for Natural Science, whose members have been associated with this approach. It is also sometimes called \"Aristotelian Thomism\" (to highlight its contrast with Gilson's brand of existential Thomism) though since Neo-Scholastic Thomism also emphasizes Aquinas's continuity with Aristotle, this label seems a bit too proprietary. (There are writers, like the contemporary Thomist Ralph McInerny who have exhibited both Neo-Scholastic and Laval/River Forest influences, and the approaches are not necessarily incompatible.)\n\nUnlike the first three schools mentioned above, transcendental Thomism, associated with Joseph Maréchal (1878–1944), Karl Rahner (1904–84), and Bernard Lonergan (1904–84), does not oppose modern philosophy wholesale, but seeks to reconcile Thomism with a Cartesian subject-centered approach to knowledge in general, and Kantian transcendental philosophy in particular. It seems fair to say that most Thomists otherwise tolerant of diverse approaches to Aquinas's thought tend to regard transcendental Thomism as having conceded too much to modern philosophy genuinely to count as a variety of Thomism, strictly speaking, and this school of thought has in any event been far more influential among theologians than among philosophers.\n\nLublin Thomism, which derives its name from the Catholic University of Lublin in Poland where it is centered, is also sometimes called \"phenomenological Thomism.\" Like transcendental Thomism, it seeks to combine Thomism with certain elements of modern philosophy. In particular, it seeks to make use of the phenomenological method of philosophical analysis associated with Edmund Husserl and the ethical personalism of writers like Max Scheler in articulating the Thomist conception of the human person. Its best-known proponent is Karol Wojtyla (1920–2005), who went on to become Pope John Paul II.\n\nHowever, unlike transcendental Thomism, the metaphysics of Lublin Thomism places priority on existence (as opposed to essence), making it an existential Thomism that demonstrates consonance with the Thomism of Étienne Gilson. It should be noted that the phenomenological concerns of the Lublin school are not metaphysical in nature as this would constitute idealism. Rather, they are considerations which are brought into relation with central positions of the school, such as when dealing with modern science, its epistemological value, and its relation to metaphysics.\n\nAnalytical Thomism described by John Haldane, its key proponent, as \"a broad philosophical approach that brings into mutual relationship the styles and preoccupations of recent English-speaking philosophy and the concepts and concerns shared by Aquinas and his followers\" (from the article on \"analytical Thomism\" in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\", edited by Ted Honderich). By \"recent English-speaking philosophy\" Haldane means the analytical tradition founded by thinkers like Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, G. E. Moore, and Ludwig Wittgenstein, which tends to dominate academic philosophy in the English-speaking world. Elizabeth Anscombe (1919–2001) and her husband Peter Geach are sometimes considered the first \"analytical Thomists,\" though (like most writers to whom this label has been applied) they did not describe themselves in these terms, and as Haldane's somewhat vague expression \"mutual relationship\" indicates, there does not seem to be any set of doctrines held in common by all analytical Thomists. What they do have in common seems to be that they are philosophers trained in the analytic tradition who happen to be interested in Aquinas in some way; and the character of their \"analytical Thomism\" is determined by whether it tends to stress the \"analytical\" side of analytical Thomism, or the \"Thomism\" side, or, alternatively, attempts to emphasize both sides equally.\n\n"}
{"id": "52684566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52684566", "title": "Togdan Rinpoche", "text": "Togdan Rinpoche\n\nTogdan Rinpoche (born in 1938) was enthroned as the leader of Drikung Kagyu lineage of Tibetan Buddhism for Ladakh in 1943 and serves today as the Head Lama for all Tibetan Buddhist Lineages in Ladakh. Rinpoche is one of the most senior Lamas for the Drikung Kagyu and Nyingma lineages of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nIn addition to being an accomplished spiritual leader, Rinpoche played an active role in politics from the 1960s when he was elected as the first leader of the \"Ladakh Action Committee,\" until 2003 when he resigned from his post as the \"Minister of State for Ladakh Affairs and Planning\"\".\"\n\nRinpoche has appeared in several documentary films including \"Yogis of Tibet\" and \"The Tibetan Book of the Dead: A Way of Life\". Rinpoche can also be seen in a rare archive footage from 1965 in a Long Life Prayer for Dudjom Rinpoche, Rinpoche's root teacher.\n\nRinpoche is a lineage holder for the teaching cycle of Jamgon Kongtrul the Great, \"Treasury of Precious Treasures\" and sponsored one of the most important transmission of this cycle that takes up to 6 months to transmit in Tso Pema by his root teacher Dudjom Rinpoche in 1965. Rinpoche has since then completed several transmissions of this highly regarded teaching cycle.\n\nIn accord with the Terma tradition of the Tibetan Buddhism and particularly the Nyingma order, Rinpoche is a \"Terton\" and have revealed the \"Padma Gyalpo's Heart Essence Sadhana\", which have been recently translated into English and Chinese. The teaching cycle was authenticated by Dudjom Rinpoche during the time he was the supreme leader of the Nyingma order.\n\n"}
{"id": "34540062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34540062", "title": "Tongan Guanzhi", "text": "Tongan Guanzhi\n\nTongan Guanzhi (; ) was a Zen Buddhist monk during the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period in 10th century China. Traditionally, he is considered to be the student of Tongan Daopi. However, the basis for this belief comes from a text by Huihong called the \"Chanlin sengbao zhuan\" (Chronicle of the Sangha Treasure in the Groves of Chan), which was completed in 1119, many years after Tongan's death.\n\nTongan Guanzhi's name first appears in the \"Transmission of the Lamp\", which was compiled around 1004. However, in that work, he is not listed as a student of Tongan Daopi. In fact, it states Daopi has no students at all. The \"Transmission of the Lamp\" instead claims that Tongan Guanzhi is the disciple of Tongan Wei, in turn a student of Jufeng Puman, with Jufeng being an apparently obscure student of the famous Dongshan Liangjie.\n\nBoth Tongan Wei and Jufeng Puman are listed for the first time in the \"Transmission of the Lamp\", and neither with much information. However, Dayang Jingxuan, who in Huihong's version of the lineage is a descendant of Tonagan Daopi, is recorded in the \"Transmission of the Lamp\" as being descended through Jufeng Puman and Tongan Wei. Dayang was close with Wang Shu, one of the compilers of \"Transmission of the Lamp\", and as such it is unlikely that an error would have been made therein about his lineage.\n\nThis suggests that Tongan Guanzhi is more likely to have been a student of Tongan Wei and not Tongan Daopi.\n"}
{"id": "20949723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20949723", "title": "Topical logic", "text": "Topical logic\n\nTopical logic is the logic of topical argument, a branch of rhetoric developed in the Late Antique period from earlier works, such as Aristotle's \"Topics\" and Cicero's \"Topica\". It consists of heuristics for developing arguments, which are in the first place plausible rather than rigorous, from commonplaces (\"topoi\" or \"loci\"). In other words, therefore, it consists of standardized ways of thinking up debating techniques from existing, thought-through positions. The actual practice of topical argument was much developed by Roman lawyers. Cicero took the theory of Aristotle to be an aspect of rhetoric. As such it belongs to \"inventio\" in the classic fivefold division of rhetoric.\n\nThe standard classical work on topical logic was the \"De Topicis Differentiae\" (On Topical Differentiae) by Boethius. \"Differentiae\" refer to case analysis, being the differentiations used to distinguish the cases into which a question is divided. Besides Aristotle and Cicero, Boethius built on Themistius. In terminology, the Greek \"axioma\" and \"topos\" in Boethius became the Latin \"maxima propositio\" (maxim, universal truth) and \"locus\". \n\nIn the Middle Ages topical logic became a theory of inference, for which the name \"axiomatic topics\" has been suggested. Abelard wanted to complete a theory of entailment by invoking the \"loci\" in Boethius to fill in conditionals, a flawed if bold development. Peter of Spain, in his \"De locis\", developed the ideas of Boethius.\n\nThe \"De inventione dialectica\" of Rodolphus Agricola (1479) made large claims for this method, as an aspect of dialectic (traditionally contrasted with rhetoric) subordinated to \"inventio\". The precise relationship of \"dialectic\" and \"rhetoric\" remained vexed well into the sixteenth century, hinging on the role assigned to \"loci\". It was expounded in different fashions by Philipp Melanchthon and Petrus Ramus. The debate fed into the later development of Ramism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "980134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=980134", "title": "Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff", "text": "Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff\n\nEnno Friedrich Wichard Ulrich von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff (22 December 1848 – 25 September 1931) was a German classical philologist. Wilamowitz, as he is known in scholarly circles, was a renowned authority on Ancient Greece and its literature.\n\nWilamowitz-Moellendorff was born in Markowitz (Markowice), a small village near Hohensalza (Inowrocław), in the then Province of Posen (now part of the Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship), to a Germanized family of distant Polish ancestry. His father, a Prussian Junker, was Arnold Wilamowitz, of Szlachta origin and using the Ogończyk coat of arms, while his mother was Ulrika, née Calbo. The couple settled in a small manor confiscated from a local noble in 1836. The Prussian part of their name, von Moellendorf, was acquired in 1813, when Prussian field marshal Wichard Joachim Heinrich von Möllendorf adopted Ulrich's ancestors. Wilamowitz, a third child, grew up in East Prussia.\n\nIn 1867 Wilamowitz passed his \"Abitur\" at the renowned boarding school at Schulpforta.\n\nUntil 1869 Wilamowitz studied Classical Philology at the University of Bonn. His teachers, Otto Jahn and Hermann Usener, had a formative influence on him. Willamowitz's relationship with Usener was strained. He developed a lifelong rivalry with his fellow student Friedrich Nietzsche and a close friendship with his contemporary Hermann Diels. Together with Diels, he moved to Berlin in 1869, where he graduated as a Doctor of Philosophy cum laude in 1870. After voluntary service in the Franco-Prussian War, he embarked on a study tour to Italy and Greece.\n\nEven before he gained a professorial title, Wilamowitz was a member of a scholarly dispute about Nietzsche's \"Birth of Tragedy\" that attracted much attention. In 1872–73, he published two unusually aggressive polemics (German: \"Zukunftsphilologie\", i.e. \"Philology of the future\"), which strongly attacked Nietzsche (then Professor at the University of Basel) and Professor Erwin Rohde (University of Kiel). Richard Wagner, whose views on art had influenced Nietzsche and Rohde, reacted by publishing an open letter and Rohde wrote a damning response. The issue at stake was the deprecation of Euripides, on whom Nietzsche blamed the destruction of Greek tragedy. Wilamowitz saw the methods of his adversaries as an attack on the basic tenets of scientific thought, unmasking them as enemies of the scientific method. His polemic was considered as Classical philology's reply to Nietzsche's challenge.\n\nAt the age of 80 when Wilamowitz wrote his memoirs, he saw the conflict with Nietzsche less passionately, but did not retract the essential points of his critique. He stated that he had not fully realised at the time that Nietzsche was not interested in scientific understanding but rather in Wagner's musical drama, but also that he was nevertheless right to take his position against Nietzsche's \"rape of historical facts and all historical method\".\n\nIn 1875, he gained a professorial title for his study \"Analecta Euripidea\". In the same year he gave his first public academic lecture in Berlin. In 1876, he was employed as \"Ordinarius\" (full professor) for Classical Philology at Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universität at Greifswald. During this period, he also married Marie Mommsen, the eldest daughter of Theodor Mommsen, and published \"Homeric Studies\" (\"Homerische Studien\").\n\nIn 1883, he took a further professorial position at Georg-August-Universität in Göttingen. Here, he continued to teach Classical Philology but also gave replacement lectures in Ancient History. His influence ensured the employment of his Greifswald colleague, Julius Wellhausen, in Göttingen. In 1891, he became vice-chancellor of the university, and he was appointed a member of Göttingen's Royal Academy of Sciences one year later. When Wilamowitz left Göttingen, he was succeeded by Georg Kaibel, a close associate from his student days and his successor at Greifswald.\n\nIn 1897, with the support of his friend Diels, Wilamowitz was offered a position at the Royal Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität at Berlin, as successor to Ernst Curtius. He stayed until his retirement in 1921. In 1915, he was appointed chancellor of the university for one year. Together with Diels, he founded the Berlin Institute for Ancient Studies (\"Institut für Altertumskunde\") in 1897. His public lectures on subjects of Classical antiquity, which took place twice a week, attracted large audiences.\n\nIn 1891, Wilamowitz was elected a corresponding member of the Prussian Academy of Sciences and he was a full member from 1899. In 1902 he took the academy's presidency. As a member of the Göttingen academy, he strongly encouraged the publication of the \"Thesaurus Linguae Latinae\". From 1897 he also worked as a member to the academy's Commission for Patristics. In 1894 he was elected full member of the German Archaeological Institute. He also was editor of the series \"Philologische Untersuchungen\" from 1880 to 1925.\n\nFurther, Wilamowitz taught as a guest lecturer in Oxford (1908) and Uppsala (1912), was a corresponding member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters (1909) and the Scientific Society of Lund (1921).\n\nDuring his presidency of the Prussian Academy, Wilamowitz oversaw the continuation of August Böckh's and Adolf Kirchhoff's publication series, the \"Inscriptiones Graecae\". Wilamowitz had a formative influence on the further development of that project, which he directed until his death.\n\nWilamowitz was an initiator of the memorandum \"Erklärung der Hochschullehrer des Deutschen Reiches\" (\"Declaration by the University Teachers of the German Reich\"), in which 3,016 signatories supported German participation in the First World War. Shortly after, he also signed the \"Manifesto of the Ninety-Three\", from which he distanced himself later. In 1914, his son, Tycho von Wilamowitz-Moellendorff, who was also active as a classical philologist, fell in the battle of Ivangorod. The memorandum appeared a few days later.\n\nIn 1878 he married Maria Mommsen, the eldest daughter of the famous ancient historian, Theodor Mommsen, whom he actively assisted in the completion of his \"Roman History\".\n\nWilamowitz spent his last years in seclusion, suffering from severe kidney problems. He died in Berlin on 25 September 1931, having been in a coma for a short time. He is buried in his native village, along with his wife, Maria (1855–1936), and their only son, Tycho. He also had a daughter, Dorothea Freifrau Hiller von Gaertringen, wife of archaeologist Friedrich Hiller von Gaertringen, who died on 24 March 1972.\n\nWilamowitz is one of the central figures of 19th and 20th century Classical philology. As a great authority of the literature and history of Ancient Greece, Wilamowitz took a stance against traditional methodology and textual criticism. As a representative of Postclassicism, he concentrated less on literary history but rather aimed to extract biographical information on the respective authors from the preserved texts. Thus, he employed historical perspectives to serve philology. Apart from his seminal general works (\"Greek Literature from Antiquity\", \"Hellenistic Poetry\"), he published numerous detailed studies of Euripides, Homer, Aeschylus, Pindar and Aristotle. As a scientific organiser, he was also responsible for the publication of important standard-setting source material publications, such as \"Inscriptiones Graecae\".\n\nHe also passionately supported the preservation of Classical education in the German school system.\n\nNotable pupils of his include Felix Jacoby, Karl Mittelhaus, Wolfgang Schadewaldt, Eduard Fraenkel, Werner Jaeger, Johannes Geffcken, Paul Maas, Eduard Schwartz, Gilbert Murray, Paul Friedländer, Friedrich Solmsen and Johannes Sykutris.\n\nIn recent decades, the American scholar William M. Calder III has been publishing a series of important documents about and by Wilamowitz, including much of his correspondence with Diels, Eduard Norden, Mommsen, Paul Wendland, and others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "353869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353869", "title": "Why I Am Not a Christian", "text": "Why I Am Not a Christian\n\nWhy I Am Not a Christian is an essay by the British philosopher Bertrand Russell. Originally a talk given 6 March 1927 at Battersea Town Hall, under the auspices of the South London Branch of the National Secular Society, it was published that year as a pamphlet and has been republished several times in English and in translation.\n\nRussell begins by defining what he means by the term Christian and sets out to explain why he does not \"believe in God and in immortality\" and why he does not \"think that Christ was the best and wisest of men\", the two things he identifies as \"essential to anybody calling himself a Christian\". He considers a number of logical arguments for the existence of God and goes into specifics about Christian theology. He argues \"ad absurdum\" against the \"argument from design\", and favors Darwin's theories.\n\nRussell also expresses doubt over the historical existence of Jesus and questions the morality of religion, which is, in his view, predominantly based on fear.\n\nThe first German edition was published in 1932 by \"Kreis der Freunde monistischen Schrifttums\", a monist association in Dresden inspired by Ernst Haeckel. In 1957 Paul Edwards preferred Russell over the then more trendy Ludwig Wittgenstein and published the essay and further texts referring to the background of \"The Bertrand Russell Case\". Russell had been denied a professorship in New York for his political and secular views and his tolerance for the gay till graduation version of homosexuality. Some countries banned the book, including South Africa. The enhanced version has been republished in various editions since the 1960s. The New York Public Library listed it among the most influential books of the 20th century.\n\nThe title has inspired other books in a snowclone fashion. William E. Connolly's \"Why I Am Not a Secularist\" (2000) deals directly with various aspects of Russell's argument. He sees Russell's approach as an attempt to exchange a previous center of gravity in public life, based on a Jewish-Christian heritage, with another that is secular-minded. Connolly doubts this exchange of one one-fits-all authoritative approach to public ethics and public reason for a new one that all \"reasonable\" citizens should abide by. He asks instead for new forms of public engagement that allow for more and more varied perspectives to interact (and restrain) each other. He counts on various important philosophers, from Nietzsche, Freud, and Judith Butler to Michael J. Shapiro and Michel Foucault to have provided such views. Connolly argues that Russell-style secularism, although admirable in its values, may undercut its own goals of freedom and diversity as a result of a narrow and intolerant understanding of the public sphere and reason.\n\n\n"}
