{"id": "33693469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33693469", "title": "'t", "text": "'t\n\nIn the Dutch language, the word <nowiki>'t</nowiki> () is a contraction of the article \"het\", meaning \"the\". 't can be found as a \"tussenvoegsel\", a word that is positioned between a person's first and last name. Careful writers should use a right (closing) quotation mark () in front of the \"t\" – and not confuse it with a left quotation mark ().\n\n"}
{"id": "35072196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35072196", "title": "Albanian iso-polyphony", "text": "Albanian iso-polyphony\n\nAlbanian iso-polyphony is a traditional part of Albanian folk music and, as such, is included in UNESCO's intangible cultural heritage list.\n\nAll four regions of Albania—Lalëria (Myzeqe), Toskëria, Çamëria, and Labëria—have polyphonic song as part of their culture. A related form of polyphonic singing is found in northern Albania, in the area of Peshkopi; Kaçanik in Kosovo; Polog, Tetovo, Kičevo and Gostivar in Macedonia; and Malësia in northern Albania and southern Montenegro.\n\nLabëria is particular well-known for multipart singing; songs can have two, three, or four parts. Two-part songs are sung only by women. Three-part songs can be sung by men and women. Four part songs are a Labërian specialty. Research has shown that four-part songs developed after three-part ones, and that they are the most complex form of polyphonic singing.\n\nThe Gjirokastër National Folklore Festival, Albania, (), has been held every five years in the month of October since 1968, and it typically includes many polyphonic songs.\n\nPleqërishte is a genre of Albanian folk iso-polyphony sung by men in Labëria and is principally identified with the city of Gjirokastër and its environs. The genre is characterized by a slow tempo, low pitch and small range.\n\n\"Pleqërishte\" means both \"of old men\" and \"of the old time\" in reference to the mode of singing and the lyrical themes of part of their songs respectively. In relation to these subjects \"pleqërishte\" songs are also called \"lashtërishte\" (\"of the ancient time\"), a term used exclusively in Gjirokastër. These specific topics have largely fallen into public disuse over the years but remain thematically notable.\n\nSongs of the genre adhere to a slow tempo and low pitch with little vocal variation as opposed to genres such as \"djemurishte\" (\"of young men\") in particular. \nAs all fourth-part genres they feature a third soloist (\"hedhës\"). While in other four-part genres the \"hedhës\" mainly assumes the role of secondary drone a minor third above the keynote, in \"pleqërishte\" the \"hedhës\" relieves the first soloist (\"marrës\") and allows him to take a breathing break. Each rendition begins with the singing of the first lines by the \"marrës\" and the introduction of the second soloist (\"kthyes\") and finally the \"hedhës\". After the \"hedhës\", the \"marrës\"'s lyrics are repeated by the drone group in various forms and manners.\n\n\"Pleqërishte\" songs are exemplified in the repertory of the folk group \"Pleqtë e Gjirokastrës\" sometimes regarded as the \"last representative\" of the genre. One of the best-known songs of the genre and most notable renditions of the group is \"Doli shkurti, hyri marsi\", which details a battle between Çerçiz Topulli and Ottoman troops in 1908 in the village of Mashkullorë near Gjirokastër.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7319132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7319132", "title": "Albert Eichhorn", "text": "Albert Eichhorn\n\nKarl Albert August Ludwig Eichhorn (1 October 1856, Garlstorf – 3 August 1926, Braunschweig) was a German Protestant theologian. He was the author of \"Das Abendmahl im Neuen Testament\" and one of the founders of the history of religions school, an approach that sought to understand all religions, including Christianity and Judaism, as socio-cultural phenomena that developed in comparable ways. His pioneering work on the role of the contemporary needs, beliefs, and culture that shaped the New Testament reports of the Last Supper argued that this early Christian sacramental meal reflected the influence of Near Eastern gnostic ideas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51851097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51851097", "title": "Almost Black", "text": "Almost Black\n\nAlmost Black: The True Story of How I Got Into Medical School By Pretending to Be Black is a 2016 non-fiction book written by Vijay Jojo Chokal-Ingam, the brother of comedian Mindy Kaling.\n\nThe true story of how writer Vijay Jojo Chokal-Ingam, an Indian American, posed as an African American in order to use affirmative action to get into medical school.\n"}
{"id": "4129210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4129210", "title": "Amri, Sindh", "text": "Amri, Sindh\n\nAmri is an ancient settlement in Dadu district Sindh province of Pakistan that goes back to 3600 BC. The site is located south of Mohenjo Daro on Hyderabad-Dadu Road more than 100 kilometres north of Hyderabad, Pakistan.\nThis site had multi-level structures, although it was never a big city. Amri culture is named after the site.\n\nSituated near the foothills of Kirthar Mountains, this was an important earlier urban center in Lower Sindh. Amri is close to Balochistan where development of earlier farming communities from 6000 BC to 4000 BC ultimately led to urbanization.\n\nThe ancient mounds of 8 hectares on the west bank of Indus River have been extensively excavated. The earliest phase was a fortified town that flourished from 3600 to 3300 BC, and belonged to the Pre-Harappan stage of the Indus Valley Civilization. Amri is dated after Rehman Dheri.\n\nThe pottery discovered here had its own characteristics and is known as \"Amri Ware\". Sohr Damb (Nal) is a related site in Balochistan to the west of Amri. Their pottery is sometimes collectively described as 'Amri-Nal ware'.\n\nLike other Pre Harappa towns, no writings were found at this site. Evidence indicates widespread fire at the town around 2500BC.\n\nIn period II (ca. 2750-2450 BC), more and more elements of Indus Valley culture appear.\n\nPeriod III (ca. 2450-1900 BC) belongs almost entirely to Indus Valley culture.\n\nPeriod IV (ca. 1900-1300 BC) is marked by the mingling of cultural traditions. Elements of the Jhukar culture appear, and co-exist with the last phase of the Indus Valley culture. Later, the elements of Jhangar culture appear.\n\nPeriod V is Muslim and dated much later.\n\nBased on the evidence from this site, Indus culture was probably not developed directly from Amri culture. Also, at least at this location, rather than suddenly being replaced by the Amri culture, there was a co-existence of both cultures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1181942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1181942", "title": "Arguments for and against drug prohibition", "text": "Arguments for and against drug prohibition\n\nArguments about the prohibition of drugs, and over drug policy reform, are subjects of considerable controversy. The following is a presentation of major drugs policy arguments, including those for drug law enforcement on one side of the debate, and arguments for drug law reform on the other. Arguments for and against drug prohibition discuss which system is more effective to protects human rights, prevent drug abuse and violence, and which system is more ethical.\n\nSupporters of prohibition claim that drug laws have a successful track record suppressing illicit drug use since they were introduced 100 years ago. The licit drug alcohol has current (last 12 months) user rates as high as 80–90% in populations over 14 years of age, and tobacco has historically had current use rates up to 60% of adult populations, yet the percentages currently using illicit drugs in OECD countries are generally below 1% of the population excepting cannabis where most are between 3% and 10%, with six countries between 11% and 17%.\n\nIn the 50-year period following the first 1912 international convention restricting use of opium, heroin and cocaine, the United States' use of illicit drugs other than cannabis was consistently below 0.5% of the population, with cannabis rising to 1–2% of the population between 1955 and 1965. With the advent of the counter-culture movement from the late 1950s, where illicit drug use was promoted as mind-expanding and relatively harmless, illicit drug use rose sharply. With illicit drug use peaking in the 1970s in the United States, the \"Just Say No\" campaign, initiated under the patronage of Nancy Reagan, coincided with recent (past month) illicit drug use decreases from 14.1% in 1979 to 5.8% in 1992, a drop of 60%.\n\nIn March, 2007, Antonio Maria Costa, former executive director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, drew attention to the drug policy of Sweden, arguing:\n\nIn Europe, Sweden spends the second highest percentage of GDP, after the Netherlands, on drug control. The UNODC argues that when Sweden reduced spending on education and rehabilitation in the 1990s in a context of higher youth unemployment and declining GDP growth, illicit drug use rose but restoring expenditure from 2002 again sharply decreased drug use as student surveys indicate. In 1998, a poll run by SIFO of 1,000 Swedes found that 96% wanted stronger action by government to stop drug abuse, and 95% wanted drug use to remain illegal.\n\nCriticizing governments that have relaxed their drug laws, Antonio Maria Costa, speaking in Washington before the launch of the World Drug Report in June 2006, said:\n\nOne of the prominent early critics of prohibition in the United States was August Vollmer, founder of the School of Criminology at University of California, Irvine and former president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police. In his 1936 book \"The Police and Modern Society\", he stated his opinion that:\n\nStephen Rolles, writing in the \"British Medical Journal\", argues:\n\nThese conclusions have been reached by a succession of committees and reports including, in the United Kingdom alone, the Police Foundation, the Home Affairs Select Committee, the Prime Minister's Strategy Unit, the Royal Society of Arts, and the UK Drug Policy Consortium. The United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime has also acknowledged the many \"unintended negative consequences\" of drug enforcement.\n\nThe editor of the \"British Medical Journal\", Dr. Fiona Godlee, gave her personal support to Rolles' call for decriminalisation, and the arguments drew particular support from Sir Ian Gilmore, former president of the Royal College of Physicians, who said we should be treating drugs \"as a health issue rather than criminalising people\" and \"this could drastically reduce crime and improve health\".\n\nDanny Kushlik, head of external affairs at Transform, said the intervention of senior medical professionals was significant. He said: \"Sir Ian's statement is yet another nail in prohibition's coffin. The Hippocratic oath says: 'First, do no harm'. Physicians are duty bound to speak out if the outcomes show that prohibition causes more harm than it reduces.\"\n\nNicholas Green, chairman of the Bar Council, made comments in a report in the profession's magazine, in which he said that drug-related crime costs the UK economy about £13bn a year and that there was growing evidence that decriminalisation could free up police resources, reduce crime and recidivism and improve public health.\n\nA report sponsored by the New York County Lawyers' Association, one of the largest local bar associations in the United States, argues on the subject of US drug policy:\n\nIn response to claims that prohibition can work, as argued by Antonio Maria Costa, executive director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, who drew attention to the drug policy of Sweden, Henrik Tham has written that sometimes it's domestically important to stress drug policy as successful; in the case of Sweden, where this notion is important, such claims serve \"\"the function of strengthening a threatened national identity in a situation where the traditional 'Swedish model' has come under increasingly hard attack from both inside and outside the country.\" Tham questions the success of the Swedish model – \"The shift in Swedish drug policy since around 1980\" ...(more difficult to receive \"nolle prosequi\" for minor drug crimes) ...\"towards a more strict model has according to the official point of view been successful by comparison with the earlier, more lenient drug policy. However, available systematic indicators show that the prevalence of drug use has increased since around 1980, that the decrease in drug incidence was particularly marked during the 1970s and that some indicators point towards an increase during the 1990s.\"\"\n\nLeif Lenke and Börje Olsson from Stockholm University have conducted research that showed how drug use have followed the youth unemployment in close correlation. They noted that unlike most of Europe, Sweden did not have widespread and lingering youth unemployment until the early 1990s financial crisis, suggesting that unattractive future prospects may contribute to the increase in drug use among the young. CAN, the Swedish Council for Information on Alcohol and Other Drugs, 2009 report stated that the increase in drug use have continued since the 1990s with a slight dip in the mid-2000.\n\nThe professor emeritus in criminology at the University of Oslo, Nils Christie, pointed out Sweden as the hawk of international drug policy in a 2004 book. He said that Sweden are serving the role of being welfare alibi for, and lending legitimacy to the US drug war. Adding that USA and Sweden have had an extraordinary influence on UNODC as the biggest donor countries. Sweden was the second biggest donor financing 8% of the UNODC budget behind the European Commission in 2006, followed by the US. In 2007 and 2008 Sweden was the fourth biggest donor, behind the European Commission, USA and Canada. In 2009 it was the third, as USA withdrew some of its funding.\n\nAn editorial in The Economist argued: \n\nAntonio Maria Costa's conviction that \"countries have the drug problem they deserve\" if they fail to follow the 'Swedish Model' in drug control has also been criticised in Peter Cohen's work – \"Looking at the UN, smelling a rat\".\n\nIn its 2011 report, the Global Commission on Drug Policy stated that \"The global war on drugs has failed, with devastating consequences for individuals and societies around the world\".\n\nA 2001 Australian study, of 18- to 29-year-olds by the NSW Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research suggests that prohibition deters illicit drug use. 29% of those who had never used cannabis cited the illegality of the substance as their reason for never using the drug, while 19% of those who had ceased use of cannabis cited its illegality as their reason.\n\nGil Kerlikowske, Director of the US ONDCP argues,\n\nThe DEA argues \"Legalization has been tried before—and failed miserably. Alaska's experiment with legalization in the 1970s led to the state's teens using marijuana at more than twice the rate of other youths nationally. This led Alaska's residents to vote to re-criminalize marijuana in 1990.\"\n\nDrug Free Australia has cited the Netherlands as an example of drug policy failure because it is soft in approach. They argue that the Dutch idea of going soft on cannabis dealers, thereby creating a \"separation of markets\" from hard drug dealers has failed to stem the initiation to drugs such as heroin, cocaine, and amphetamines, saying that, in 1998, the Netherlands had the third highest cannabis and cocaine use in Europe. According to Barry McCaffrey of the US Office of National Drug Control Policy, Dutch tolerance has allowed the Netherlands to become a criminal epicentre for illicit synthetic drug manufacture, particularly ecstasy, as well as the home for production and worldwide export of strains of cannabis with THC reportedly 10 times higher than normal. Gil Kerlikowske has attested that, where there were once thousands of cannabis cafés there are now only several hundred. Levels of cannabis use, in 2005 only marginally higher than in 1998, while other European countries have accelerated past them, are more likely, Drug Free Australia argues, the result of a growing intolerance of cannabis in the Netherlands rather than a growing tolerance. Drug Free Australia has also argued that British reductions in cannabis use after softer legislation may be more so the result of heavy UK media exposure of the stronger evidence of links between cannabis and psychosis.\n\nIt has been suggested that drug law reform could reduce the use of hard drugs as it has in countries such as the Netherlands. According to a 2009 annual report by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, the Dutch are among the lowest users of marijuana or cannabis in Europe, despite the Netherlands' policy on soft drugs being one of the most liberal in Europe, allowing for the sale of marijuana at \"coffee shops\", which the Dutch have allowed to operate for decades, and possession of less than 5 grams (0.18 oz).\n\nBritish Crime Survey statistics indicated that the proportion of 16- to 24-year-olds using cannabis decreased from 28% a decade ago to 21%, with its declining popularity accelerating after the decision to downgrade the drug to class C was announced in January 2004. The BCS figures, published in October 2007, showed that the proportion of frequent users in the 16–24 age group (i.e. who were using cannabis more than once a month), fell from 12% to 8% in the past four years.\n\nAmerican teenagers are drinking and smoking less and doing fewer drugs than their predecessors in more than 40 years of tracking. Use of marijuana is down among 8th- and 10th-graders, though it is flat among high school seniors, according to the annual Monitoring the Future survey of American teens.\n\nThe US Drug Enforcement Agency's \"2008 Marijuana Sourcebook\" argues that recent research supports the gateway hypothesis that certain drugs (such as cannabis) act as gateways to use of 'harder' drugs such as heroin, either because of social contact or because of an increasing search for a better high. Proponents cite studies such as that of 311 same sex twins, where only one twin smoked cannabis before age 17, and where such early cannabis smokers were five times more likely than their twin to move on to harder drugs.\n\nIn the \"American Journal of Public Health\", Andrew Golub and Bruce Johnson of the National Development and Research Institute in New York wrote that young people who smoked marijuana in the generations before and after the baby boomers did not appear to be likely to move on to harder drugs.\n\nResearchers from the independent Rand Drug Policy Research Center in Santa Monica, California, looking at data from the National Household Survey on Drug Abuse between 1982 and 1994, concluded that teenagers who took hard drugs did so whether they had first tried cannabis or not.\n\nA twin study (of 510 same sex twin pairs) which adjusted for additional confounders such as peer drug use, found that cannabis use and associations with later hard drug use existed only for non-identical twins. The study suggested that a causal role of cannabis use in later hard drug usage is minimal, if it exists at all, and that cannabis use and hard drug use share the same influencing factors such as genetics and environment.\n\nAdvocates of prohibition argue that particular drugs should be illegal because they are harmful. Drug Free Australia for example argues \"That illicit drugs are inherently harmful substances is attested by the very nomenclature of the 'harm reduction' movement.\" The U.S. government has argued that illegal drugs are \"\"far more deadly than alcohol\" saying \"although alcohol is used by seven times as many people as drugs, the number of deaths induced by those substances is not far apart. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), during 2000, there were 15,852 drug-induced deaths; only slightly less than the 18,539 alcohol-induced deaths.\"\" Ratios of the harms of illicit opiates to licit alcohol and tobacco in Australia are similar, with 2 deaths per hundred opiate users per annum versus 0.22 deaths per hundred for alcohol (9 times less) per year and 0.3 for tobacco (7 times less).\n\nThe DEA has said:\n\nMany of the deaths from using cannabis, other than from car accidents while intoxicated or violence and aggression, are more likely to figure in the longer term, just as with tobacco, where both nicotine overdose and cannabis overdose are extremely rare or nonexistent. While ecstasy may have lower rates of immediate mortality than some other illicits, there is a growing science on the already recognized considerable health harms of ecstasy. Drug Free Australia argues that distinctions between \"soft\" and \"hard\" drugs are entirely artificial, and titling cannabis \"soft\" or ecstasy \"recreational\" does not lessen the extensive harms of these substances.\n\nGil Kerlikowske, director of the US Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) argues that in the United States, illegal drugs already cost $180 billion a year in health care, lost productivity, crime, and other expenditures, and that number would only increase under legalization because of increased use.\n\nDrug Free Australia claims arguments that increased health harms of illicit drugs are the result of lack of government regulation of their purity and strength are not well supported by evidence. In Australia, which has had the highest opioid mortality per capita in the OECD, studies found that \"overdose fatality is not a simple function of heroin dose or purity. There is no evidence of toxicity from contaminants of street heroin in Australia.\" Drug Free Australia claims that other causes of death such as suicide, murder and accidents are an effect of the drug themselves, not of their purity or otherwise.\n\nDrug Free Australia argues \"Regarding the freedom of choice of those addicted to a drug, it is important to recognize that addiction is defined as compulsive by its very nature and that addictions curb individual freedom.\" ... \"As is the case with alcohol addiction, illicit drug addictions likewise serve to keep many such users functionally in poverty and often as a continued burden on friends, family and society. Where it is argued that all disabilities are a burden on society it must be recognized that most disabilities are not the result of a choice, whereas the decision to recreationally use illicit drugs is most commonly free, and with the knowledge that they may lead to an abundance of addictions.\"\n\nThere is evidence that many illicit drugs pose comparatively fewer health dangers than certain legal drugs. The health risks of MDMA (Ecstasy) have been exaggerated for instance, the risks from cannabis use also overstated, and health problems from the use of legal substances, particularly alcohol and tobacco, are greater, even than from cocaine use for example (occasional cocaine use does not typically lead to severe or even minor physical or social problems).\n\nMany trials have shown beneficial effects associated with psychoactive drug use:\n\n\nAccording to a World Health Organisation report: \"As cannabis is an illegal drug its cultivation, harvesting and distribution are not subject to quality control mechanisms to ensure the reliability and safety of the product used by consumers. It is well recognised in developing countries, such as Kenya, that illicit alcohol production can result in the contamination with toxic by-products or adulterants that can kill or seriously affect the health of users. The same may be true of illicit drugs such as opiates, cocaine and amphetamine in developed societies.\"\n\nThe government cannot enforce quality control on products sold and manufactured illegally. Examples include: the easier to make derivative MDA being sold as MDMA, heroin users unintentionally injecting brick dust, quinine, or fentanyl with which their heroin had been cut; and heroin/cocaine overdoses occurring as a result of users not knowing exactly how much they are taking.\n\nThe illegality of injectable drugs leads to a scarcity of needles which causes an increase in HIV infections. An easy cure to this problem, while upholding the illegality of drugs, is the Dutch policy of distributing free needles. The money spent on both increased health costs due to HIV infections and drug prohibition itself causes a drain upon society.\n\nStudies on the effects of prescribing heroin to addicts as practiced in many European countries have shown better rates of success than any other available treatment in terms of assisting long-term users establish stable, crime-free lives. Many patients were able to find employment, some even started a family after years of homelessness and delinquency.\n\nThe illegality of many recreational drugs may be dissuading research into new, more effective and perhaps safer recreational drugs. For example, it has been proposed that a drug with many of the same desired effects as alcohol could be created with fewer adverse health effects.\n\nThe United States Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) has suggested that illegal drugs are \"far more deadly than alcohol\", arguing that \"although alcohol is used by seven times as many people as drugs, the number of deaths induced by those substances is not far apart\", quoting figures from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), claiming \"during 2000, there were 15,852 drug-induced deaths; only slightly less than the 18,539 alcohol-induced deaths.\"\n\nThe DEA's use of such figures is questionable however. An article in the Journal of the American Medical Association gave the number deaths caused by alcohol in year 2000 as 85,000 – over four and a half times greater than the DEA's preferred figure. The DEA's argument also overlooks tobacco, causing 435,000 US deaths in year 2000. And, the CDC definition of \"drug-induced death\" includes suicides using drugs, accidental overdose, and deaths from medically prescribed (not illegal) drugs. An analysis of drug-induced deaths for the 20-year period 1979–1998 found the vast majority attributable to accidental overdose, and suicide by drug taking, which together account for about 76 percent of all such deaths. Taking into account deaths from non-illegal drugs leaves only 21 percent of CDC \"drug-induced death\" figures actually due to the use of \"illegal\" drugs.\n\nClaims that cannabis is far more powerful than it used to be are also dubious, with \"scare figures\" skewed by comparing the weakest cannabis from the past with the strongest of today. Figures regarding emergency room mentions of marijuana use can be misleading too, as \"mention\" of a drug in an emergency department visit does not mean that the drug was the cause of the visit.\n\nA document published for the non-profit advocacy organization Europe Against Drugs (EURAD) argues that \"one cannot vote for a medicine\" and that a scientific approval basis is essential. It says that EU rules set out strict criteria for the acceptance of a drug for medical use:\n\nAccording to Janet D. Lapey, M.D., of Concerned Citizens For Drug Prevention, \" Due to a placebo effect, a patient may erroneously believe a drug is helpful when it is not. This is especially true of addictive, mind-altering drugs like marijuana. A marijuana withdrawal syndrome occurs, consisting of anxiety, depression, sleep and appetite disturbances, irritability, tremors, diaphoresis, nausea, muscle convulsions, and restlessness. Often, persons using marijuana erroneously believe that the drug is helping them combat these symptoms without realizing that actually marijuana is the cause of these effects. Therefore, when a patient anecdotally reports a drug to have medicinal value, this must be followed by objective scientific studies.\"\n\nThe US Drug Enforcement Administration also says:\n\nMost of the psychoactive drugs now prohibited in modern societies have had medical uses in history. In natural plant drugs like opium, coca, cannabis, mescaline, and psilocybin, the medical history usually dates back thousands of years and through a variety of cultures.\n\nPsychedelics such as LSD and psilocybin (the main ingredient in most hallucinogenic mushrooms) are the subject of renewed research interest because of their therapeutic potential. They could ease a variety of difficult-to-treat mental illnesses, such as chronic depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and alcohol dependency. MDMA (Ecstasy) has been used for cognitive enhancement in people with Parkinson's disease, and has shown potential in treating posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nUnder prohibition, millions of people find it very difficult to obtain controlled medications, particularly opiate pain-relievers. The United Nations 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs requires that opiates be distributed only by medical prescription, but this is impractical in many areas.\n\nAccording to the Transnational Institute, June 2008:\nAccording to the International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) there is now an unmet demand in opiates. Ironically, the current drug control regulations hamper access to controlled opiate medications for therapeutic use. Many patients are unable to access morphine, methadone or an equivalent opioid. Global medical morphine consumption would rise five times if countries would make morphine available at the level of the calculated need, according to a recent WHO estimate.\n\nAccording to the New York Times, September 2007:\nUnder Sierra Leone law, morphine may be handled only by a pharmacist or doctor, explained Gabriel Madiye, the hospice's founder. But in all Sierra Leone there are only about 100 doctors — one for every 54,000 people, compared with one for every 350 in the United States... \"How can they say there is no demand when they don't allow it?\" he [Madiye] asked. \"How can they be so sure that it will get out of control when they haven't even tried it?\"\n\nThe DEA argues that \"compared to the social costs of drug abuse and addiction—whether in taxpayer dollars or in pain and suffering—government spending on drug control is minimal.\"\n\nAntonio Maria Costa, executive director of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, has said: \n\nGil Kerlikowske, current director of the US ONDCP, argues that legalizing drugs, then regulating and taxing their sale, would not be effective fiscally. \n\nFormer directors of the ONDCP, John P. Walters and Barry McCaffrey have accused billionaires George Soros, Peter Lewis and John Sperling, of bankrolling the pro-pot or drug legalisation movement. \"These people use ignorance and their overwhelming amount of money to influence the electorate\", Walters said. Billionaire US financier, George Soros said in his autobiography, \"I would establish a strictly controlled distribution network through which I would make most drugs, excluding the most dangerous ones like crack, legally available.\" . The drug legalization lobby's vigorous and well funded promotion in media and schools of a 'safe use of illegal drugs' message.\nindicates that drug prohibition is in the midst of a pitched battle waged by those who are accepting not only of the drug user but who also strongly promote an acceptance of drug use itself.\n\nOpposition to the legalization of hemp, which uses plants of the cannabis genus for commercial purposes, centres on the fact that those wanting to legalize the use of cannabis for recreational and medical purposes themselves present it as their Trojan horse for that very purpose:\n\nIn a \"Huffington Post\" interview, Mark Kleiman, the \"Pot Czar\" of Washington state, said he was concerned that the National Cannabis Industry Association would favor profits over public health. He also said that it could become a predatory body like the lobbying arms of the tobacco and alcohol industries. Kleiman said: \"The fact that the National Cannabis Industry Association has hired itself a K Street suit [lobbyist] is not a good sign.\"\n\nThe United States efforts at drug prohibition started out with a $350 million budget in 1971, and was in 2006 a $30 billion campaign. These numbers only include \"direct\" prohibition enforcement expenditures, and as such only represent \"part\" of the total cost of prohibition. This $30 billion figure rises dramatically once other issues, such as the economic impact of holding 400,000 prisoners on prohibition violations, are factored in.\n\nThe war on drugs is extremely costly to such societies that outlaw drugs in terms of taxpayer money, lives, productivity, the inability of law enforcement to pursue \"mala in se\" crimes, and social inequality. Some proponents of decriminalization say that the financial and social costs of drug law enforcement far exceed the damages that the drugs themselves cause. For instance, in 1999, close to 60,000 prisoners (3.3% of the total incarcerated population) convicted of violating marijuana laws were behind bars at a cost to taxpayers of some $1.2 billion per year. In 1980, the total jail and prison population was 540,000, about one-quarter the size it is today. Drug offenders accounted for 6% of all prisoners. According to the Federal Bureau of Prisons, drug offenders now account for nearly 51%.\n\nIt has been argued that if the US government legalised marijuana it would save $7.7 billion per year in expenditure on enforcement of prohibition. Also, that marijuana legalization would yield tax revenue of $2.4 billion annually if it were taxed like all other goods and $6.2 billion annually if it were taxed at rates comparable to those on alcohol and tobacco.\n\nMass arrests of local growers of marijuana, for example, not only increase the price of local drugs, but lessens competition. Only major retailers that can handle massive shipments, have their own small fleet of aircraft, troops to defend the caravans and other sophisticated methods of eluding the police (such as lawyers), can survive by this regulation of the free market by the government\nThe United States' \"War on Drugs\" has added considerably to the political instability in South America. The huge profits to be made from cocaine and other South American-grown drugs are largely because they are illegal in the wealthy neighbouring nation. This drives people in the relatively poor countries of Colombia, Peru, Bolivia and Brazil to break their own laws in organising the cultivation, preparation and trafficking of cocaine to the States. This has allowed criminal, paramilitary and guerrilla groups to reap huge profits, exacerbating already serious law-and-order and political problems. Within Bolivia, the political rise of current president Evo Morales is directly related to his grassroots movement against US-sponsored coca-eradication and criminalization policies. However, coca has been cultivated for centuries in the Andes. Among their various legitimate uses, coca leaves are chewed for their mild stimulant & appetite suppression effects, and steeped as a tea which is known to reduce the effects of human altitude sickness. Rural farmers in the poor regions in which coca has historically been cultivated often find themselves at the difficult and potentially violent intersection of government-sponsored eradication efforts, illegal cocaine producers & traffickers seeking coca supplies, anti-government paramilitary forces trafficking in cocaine as a source of revolutionary funding, and the historical hardships of rural subsistence farming (or its typical alternative – abandoning their land and fleeing to an urban slum). In some regions, farmers' coca and other crops are frequently destroyed by U.S.-sponsored eradication treatments (usually sprayed from the air with varying degrees of discrimination), whether or not the farmers directly supply the cocaine trade, thereby destroying their livelihoods. Agricultural producers in these countries are pushed further to grow coca for the cocaine trade by the dumping of subsidised farming products (fruit, vegetables, grain etc.) produced by Western countries (predominantly US and EU agricultural surpluses) (see BBC reference, below), which reduces the prices they could otherwise receive for alternate crops such as maize. The net effect can be a depression of prices for all crops, which can both make the farmer's livelihood more precarious, and make the cocaine producers' coca supplies cheaper.\n\nAfter providing a significant portion of the world's poppy for use in heroin production, Afghanistan went from producing practically no illegal drugs in 2000 (following banning by the Taliban), to cultivating what is now as much as 90% of the world's opium. The Taliban is currently believed to be heavily supported by the opium trade there.\n\nFurthermore, the sale of the illegal drugs produces an influx of dollars that is outside the formal economy, and puts pressure on the currency exchange keeping the dollar low and making the export of legal products more difficult.\n\nThe War on Drugs has resulted in the outlawing of the entire hemp industry in the United States. Hemp, which is a special cultivar of Cannabis Sativa, does not have significant amounts of psychoactive (THC) substances in it, less than 1%. Without even realizing the plant had been outlawed several months prior, Popular Mechanics magazine published an article in 1938 entitled \"The New Billion-Dollar Crop\" anticipating the explosion of the hemp industry with the invention of machines to help process it. Recently, governmental refusal to take advantage of taxing hemp has been a point of criticism. Hemp has a large list of potential industrial uses including textiles, paper, rope, fuel, construction materials, and biocomposites (for use in cars for example). Hemp has some drawbacks, however, one being that the long fibers in hemp are only a part of the outer bast, and this has contributed to hemp having only modest commercial success in countries (for example in Canada) where it is legal to harvest hemp.\n\nThe seed of the hemp plant is highly nutritious. Rare for a plant, it contains all essential amino acids. Rare for any food, it is a good source of alpha-linolenic acid, an omega 3 fatty acid which is deficient in most diets.\n\nWhile concerns are sometimes expressed that the \"war on drugs\" can never be won, there is a failure to recognize that other justifiably costly policing wars such as \"blitzes\" on speeding can likewise never be won. Such blitzes reduce and contain speeding, as with policing of illicit drug use. Failure to police speeding drivers simply allows inordinate harm to be inflicted on other individuals. Speeding is not legalized simply because it can never be eradicated.\n\nThere is an argument that much crime and terrorism is drug related or drug funded and that prohibition should reduce this.\n\nFormer US president George W. Bush, in signing the Drug-Free Communities Act Reauthorization Bill in December 2001, said, \"If you quit drugs, you join the fight against terror in America.\"\n\nThe US Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) says that drug-related offences may include violent behavior resulting from drug effects.\n\nThe US Drug Enforcement Administration claims:\n\nThe U.S. government began the Drug Use Forecasting (DUF) program in 1987 to collect information on drug use among urban arrestees. In 1997, the National Institute of Justice expanded and reengineered the DUF study and renamed it the Arrestee Drug Abuse Monitoring (ADAM) program. ADAM is a network of 34 research sites in select U.S. cities.\n\nDUF research indicates that:\n\n\nCriminal behavior can importantly be the direct result of drug use which can cause emotional/brain damage, mental illness and anti-social behavior. Psychoactive drugs can have a powerful impact on behavior which may influence some people to commit crimes that have nothing to do with supporting the cost of their drug use. The use of drugs changes behavior and causes criminal activity because people will do things they wouldn't do if they were rational and free of the drug's influence. Cocaine-related paranoia is an example. If drug use increases with legalization, so will such forms of related violent crime as assaults, drugged driving, child abuse, and domestic violence.\n\nThat higher prices make the trade lucrative for criminals is recognized but countered by the argument that capitulating to illicit drug use on these grounds makes no more sense than capitulating to those who continue to traffic in human lives, a more expensive business because of its illegality and therefore more lucrative for the criminal, but necessary for the rights of vulnerable citizens.\n\nThe Office of National Drug Control Policy says that the idea that our nation's prisons are overflowing with otherwise law-abiding people convicted for nothing more than simple possession of marijuana is a myth, \"an illusion conjured and aggressively perpetuated by drug advocacy groups seeking to relax or abolish America's marijuana laws.\" ONDCP state that the vast majority of inmates in state and federal prison for marijuana have been found guilty of much more than simple possession. Some were convicted for drug trafficking, some for marijuana possession along with one or more other offenses. And many of those serving time for marijuana pleaded down to possession in order to avoid prosecution on much more serious charges. In the US, just 1.6 percent of the state inmate population were held for offences involving only marijuana, and less than one percent of all state prisoners (0.7 percent) were incarcerated with marijuana possession as the only charge. An even smaller fraction of state prisoners were first time offenders (0.3 percent). The numbers on the US federal prisons are similar. In 2001, the overwhelming majority of offenders sentenced for marijuana crimes were convicted for trafficking and only 63 served time for simple possession.\n\nDetective superintendent Eva Brännmark from the Swedish National Police Board, in a speech given to Drug Free Australia's first international conference on illicit drug use, said:\n\nThe argument that drug addicts of certain drugs are forced into crime by prohibition should first and foremost highlight the fact that this argument presupposes and underlines the addictive nature of some illicit drugs (which legalization proponents often downplay), addictive enough to create a viable criminal supply industry. Secondly, the harms of increased addictive drug use, which as previously outlined would be a consequence of legalization and its cheaper prices, far outweigh the current crime harms of prohibition. It is worth pointing out, this argument is not useful for substances such as LSD and mescaline, with no addictive properties.\n\nAlthough criminal punishments vary with rooting out drug usage, it is not the foremost eradication technique to resolve drug abuse issues. In order to combat these issues, the application of treatment and support group resources coupled with community support and understanding, has far higher long-term potential to cure the ever-growing epidemic plaguing the nation, especially in rural areas.\n\nProhibition protects the drug cartel insofar as it keeps the distribution in the black market and creates the risk that makes smuggling profitable. As former federal narcotics officer Michael Levine states in relation to his undercover work with Colombian cocaine cartels, from Lamar\n\nCritics of drug prohibition often cite the fact that the end of alcohol prohibition in 1933 led to immediate decreases in murders and robberies to support the argument that legalization of drugs could have similar effects. Once those involved in the narcotics trade have a legal method of settling business disputes, the number of murders and violent crime could drop. Robert W. Sweet, a federal judge, strongly agrees: \"The present policy of trying to prohibit the use of drugs through the use of criminal law is a mistake\". When alcohol use was outlawed during prohibition, it gave rise to gang warfare and spurred the formation of some of the most well known criminals of the era, among them the infamous Al Capone. Similarly, drug dealers today resolve their disputes through violence and intimidation, something which legal drug vendors do not do. Prohibition critics also point to the fact that police are more likely to be corrupted in a system where bribe money is so available. Police corruption due to drugs is widespread enough that one pro-legalization newsletter has made it a weekly feature.\n\nDrug money has been called a major source of income for terrorist organizations. Critics assert that legalization would remove this central source of support for terrorism. While politicians blame drug users for being a major source of financing terrorists, no clear evidence of this link has been provided. US government agencies and government officials have been caught trafficking drugs to finance US-supported terrorist actions in events such as the Iran-Contra Affair, and Manuel Noriega but the isolated nature of these events precludes them from being major sources of financing.\n\nHuman rights organizations and legal scholars have claimed that drug prohibition inevitably leads to police corruption.\n\nOn 2 July 2010, former Interpol President Jackie Selebi was found guilty of corruption by the South African High Court in Johannesburg for accepting bribes worth US$156,000 from a drug trafficker. After being charged in January 2008, Selebi resigned as president of Interpol and was put on extended leave as National Police Commissioner of South Africa.\n\nDespite the fact that most drug offenders are non-violent, the stigma attached to a conviction can prevent employment and education.\n\nJanet Crist of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy mentioned that the anti-drug efforts have had \"no direct effect on either the price or the availability of cocaine on our streets\". Additionally, drug dealers show off expensive jewellery and clothing to young children. Some of these children are interested in making fast money instead of working legitimate jobs. Drug decriminalization would remove the \"glamorous Al Capone-type traffickers who are role-models for the young\".\n\nThe lack of government regulation and control over the lucrative illegal drug market has created a large population of unregulated drug dealers who lure many children into the illegal drug trade. The U.S. government's most recent 2009 National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) reported that nationwide over 800,000 adolescents ages 12–17 sold illegal drugs during the previous 12 months preceding the survey. The 2005 Youth Risk Behavior Survey by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) reported that nationwide 25.4% of students had been offered, sold, or given an illegal drug by someone on school property. The prevalence of having been offered, sold, or given an illegal drug on school property ranged from 15.5% to 38.7% across state CDC surveys (median: 26.1%) and from 20.3% to 40.0% across local surveys (median: 29.4%).\n\nDespite more than $7 billion spent annually towards arresting and prosecuting nearly 800,000 people across the country for marijuana offenses in 2005, the federally funded Monitoring the Future Survey reports about 85% of high school seniors find marijuana \"easy to obtain.\" That figure has remained virtually unchanged since 1975, never dropping below 82.7% in three decades of national surveys.\n\nWith respect to drug crop cultivation, eradication efforts in line with prohibitionist drug policies ultimately force coca, poppy, and marijuana growers into more remote, ecologically sensitive areas. These crops, which are generally grown away from urban centers and state presence, tend to deplete forestland and expand the agricultural frontier. Out of fear of eradication, cultivators are incentivized to accelerate production cycles in order to obtain the highest yield in the shortest period of time; the pace and methods used by growers neglect measures to promote sustainability, exacerbating the environmental impact. Drug cultivators typically opt to produce in areas with ecosystems with abundant plant biomass to better conceal their operations. Ultimately, this practice leads to increased deforestation which contributes to a greater influx of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere. Moreover, the aerial spraying of herbicides such as glyphosate used in eradication and control efforts have been shown to have negative effects on environmental and human health.\n\nThe \"balloon effect\" also operates further up the drug commodity chain in countries where drugs are trafficked rather than cultivated. Like eradication programs, interdiction pushes traffickers into remote areas where they exacerbate preexisting pressures on forestland. Traffickers use slash and burn practices to convert forest into arable land for cash crop production for the purposes of money laundering as well as the construction of clandestine roads and airstrips. The war on drugs and prohibitionist policies only serve to aggravate the already detrimental impacts of narco-trafficking on Central American forests. Intensified ecological devastation across cultivation and trafficking zones is yet another negative unintended consequence of emphasis on supply-side narcotic reduction borne by poor countries.\n\nSeveral drugs such as dimethyltryptamine, morphine and GHB are illegal to possess but are also inherently present in all humans as a result of endogenous synthesis. Since some jurisdictions classify possession of drugs to include having the drug present in the blood in any concentration, all residents of such jurisdictions are technically in possession of multiple illegal drugs at all times.\n\nWhen the cost of drugs increases, drug users are more likely to commit crimes in order to obtain money to buy the expensive drugs. Legalizing drugs would make drugs reasonably cheap.\n\nIn response to the issue of consistency with regard to drug prohibition and the dangers of alcohol former director of the ONDCP John P. Walters, has said, \"It's ludicrous to say we have a great deal of problems from the use of alcohol so we should multiply that with marijuana\".\n\nSince alcohol prohibition ended and the War on Drugs began there has been much debate over the issue of consistency among legislators with regard to drug prohibition. Many anti-prohibition activists focus on the well-documented dangers of alcohol (such as alcoholism, cystisis, domestic violence, brain and liver damage). In addition to anecdotal evidence, they cite statistics to show more deaths caused by drunk driving under the influence of alcohol than by drivers under the influence of marijuana, and research which suggests that alcohol is more harmful than all but the most \"dangerous\" drugs. When the level of harm associated with the other drugs includes harm that arises solely as a result of the drugs illegality rather than merely that danger which is associated with actually using the drugs, only heroin, cocaine, barbiturates and street methadone were shown to be more harmful than the legal drug alcohol.\n\nA 2002 DAWN report, for the USA records two possible drug-induced deaths where marijuana was the only drug found. Legal drugs however, have been the cause of more than half a million deaths a year: 480,000 from tobacco smoking-related illnesses and 80,000 from alcohol abuse. Together, tobacco and alcohol cause about 20% of all yearly deaths in the USA.\n\nIt is argued that inconsistency between the harm caused and the legal status of these common drugs undermines the declared motives of the law enforcement agencies to reduce harm by prohibition, for example of marijuana.\n\nIn February 2009, the UK government was accused by its most senior expert drugs adviser Professor David Nutt of making political decisions with regard to drug classification, for example in rejecting the scientific advice to downgrade ecstasy from a class A drug. The Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) report on ecstasy, based on a 12-month study of 4,000 academic papers, concluded that it is nowhere near as dangerous as other class A drugs such as heroin and crack cocaine, and should be downgraded to class B. The advice was not followed. Jacqui Smith, then Home Secretary, was also widely criticised by the scientific community for bullying Professor David Nutt into apologising for his comments that, in the course of a normal year, more people died from falling off horses than died from taking ecstasy. Professor Nutt was later sacked by Jacqui Smith's successor as Home Secretary Alan Johnson; Johnson saying \"It is important that the government's messages on drugs are clear and as an advisor you do nothing to undermine public understanding of them. I cannot have public confusion between scientific advice and policy and have therefore lost confidence in your ability to advise me as Chair of the ACMD.\"\n\nIn the United States, defendants convicted of selling crack cocaine receive equal sentences to those convicted of selling 100 times the same amount of powder cocaine. This disparity was lessened during the Obama administration when the Fair Sentencing Act 2010 changed the ratio to 18 to 1. The majority of offenders convicted for selling crack are poor and/or black, while the majority of those convicted for selling cocaine are not.\n\nMany drug policies group all illegal drugs into a single category. Since drugs drastically vary in their effects, addictive potential, dosages, methods of production, and consumption the arguments either way could be seen as inconsistent.\n\nIt has been alleged that current drug laws are enforced in such a way as to penalize non-whites more harshly and more often than whites, and to penalize the poor of all races more harshly and more often than the middle and upper classes. For example, up until 2012, crack cocaine carried penalties one hundred times more severe than cocaine despite the fact that these drugs are essentially identical. Especially in urban black communities, convictions were nearly exclusively for crack, while cocaine use is statistically much higher among affluent whites.\n\nArticle 33 of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child reads:\n\nDrug Free Australia argues:\n\nDrug Free Australia gives the example that in 2007 one in every nine children under the age of 18 in the United States lived with at least one drug dependent or drug abusing parent. 2.1 million children in the United States live with at least one parent who was dependent on or abused illicit drugs.\n\nThe Christian Institute argues that there is no point in having criminal laws unless those caught breaking them will at least face prosecution. Less serious offenses, such as failing to complete a census form, may also attract a criminal record, so the contention that criminalizing drug use is draconian can be seen as overstatement.\n\nDrug Free Australia concludes any democratic society that deems the use of a certain drug to present unacceptable harm to the individual user, to present unacceptable harm to the users' surrounding community or to transfer too great a burden to the community will seek legislation which will curb that particular freedom of the individual.\n\nSweden's centre-right alliance government Moderate Party advocates \"Zero tolerance for crime\", arguing:\nMany people argue that only drug dealers should be fought and not the drug users themselves. But this rests on the fundamental error that big-time drugs smugglers and dealers hawk illicit drugs to new consumers. This is most often not the case. Rather it is the users themselves that are mostly responsible for recruiting new users through networks of friends or relatives demonstrating that users need to be targeted as the recruiters of new drug use, and that an emphasis on early rehabilitation for young users is the best answer to curbing widespread dealing. Sweden's mandatory rehabilitation program has resulted in the lowest drug use levels in the developed world.\n\nThe freedom of choice of those addicted to a drug is also questioned, recognizing that addiction is defined as compulsive by its very nature and that addictions in and of themselves curb individual freedom. Likewise, the proposal that addictive drugs should be legalized, regulated and opened to \"free market dynamics\" is immediately belied by the recognition that the drug market for an addict is no longer a free market – it is clear that they will pay any price when needing their drug.\n\nAuthors such as Aldous Huxley and Terence McKenna believed that what persons do in private should not be regulated by the government. It is argued that persons should be able to do whatever they want with their bodies, including the recreational use of drugs, as long as they do not harm others. Such arguments often cite the harm principle of philosopher John Stuart Mill who urged that the state had no right to intervene to prevent individuals from doing something that harmed them, if no harm was thereby done to the rest of society: 'Over himself, over his own body and mind, the individual is sovereign' and 'The only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others. His own good, either physical or moral, is not sufficient warrant.' The argument is that drug use is a victimless crime and as such the government has no right to prohibit it or punish drug consumers, much like the government does not forbid overeating, which causes significantly more deaths per year. This can be equated with the quest for freedom of thought.\n\nSome religious groups including the \"União do Vegetal\", the Native American Church, the Bwiti religion and the Rastafari movement (see religious and spiritual use of cannabis) use psychoactive substances as sacrament in religious rituals. In some religious practice, drugs are sometimes used as a conduit to an oceanic feeling or divine union, equated with mysticism or entheogenic ('that which causes God to be within an individual') experiences. In others, the 'entactogenic' qualities of drugs are used to enhance feelings of empathy among congregations.\n\nSome people believe that altered states of consciousness enable many people to push the boundaries of human experience, knowledge, and creativity. There is thus a moral imperative to experiment with drugs in terms of human progress, teleological development, or just increased artistic creativity; such ideas are central to Cognitive Liberty, Stoned Ape Hypothesis and Aldous Huxley's \"The Doors of Perception\".\n\nIn PiHKAL, Alexander Shulgin, argues that the psychedelics help us learn about ourselves; indeed that is where the name \"psychedelic\" (mind expanding) comes from. \n\nMany people, including some religious groups, argue that the war on drugs is itself immoral.\n\nIn 2007, Richard Brunstrom, the Chief Constable of North Wales, one of Britain's most senior police officers, said \"If policy on drugs is in future to be pragmatic not moralistic, driven by ethics not dogma, then the current prohibitionist stance will have to be swept away as both unworkable and immoral, to be replaced with an evidence-based unified system (specifically including tobacco and alcohol) aimed at minimisation of harms to society.\"\n\nThe author and physician Andrew Weil has commented on the peculiar attitude and emotional bias of some people who think \"drug taking is bad\", but who nevertheless consume alcohol, and formulate the unhelpful conception \"We drink. Therefore alcohol is not a drug.\"\n\nThe UK drug policy reform group Release believe that the stigma attached to drug use needs to be removed. Release's actions have included challenging such stigmatisation with its \"Nice People Take Drugs\" advertising campaign.\n\nSome argue that sending out signals should be a consideration of drug policy. Previous UK Home Office Minister Vernon Coaker argued \"is not part of any system with respect to drugs ... not only trying to send messages out to people who misuse drugs but also about trying to send messages out to people out there in the community?\"\n\nIn response to the UK government's official drugs advisory body's opposition to cannabis reclassification (upwards, from a class C to a class B drug) in 2008, prime minister Gordon Brown said: \"I believe that if we're sending out a signal, particularly to teenagers – and particular those at the most vulnerable age, young teenagers – that in any way we find cannabis acceptable, given all we know about the way that cannabis is being sold in this country, that is not the right thing to do. There's a stronger case now for sending out a signal that cannabis is not only illegal, it's unacceptable.\"\n\nThe Science and Technology Select Committee appointed by the House of Commons to inquire into the Government's handling of scientific advice, risk and evidence in policy making agreed with Transform Drug Policy Foundation's view that \"Criminal law is supposed to prevent crime, not 'send out' public health messages\". Transform warned that sending out signals could backfire by \"fostering distrust of police and public health messages amongst young people\". The Select Committee's report said \"The Government's desire to use the Class of a particular drug to send out a signal to potential users or dealers does not sit comfortably with the claim that the primary objective of the classification system is to categorise drugs according to the comparative harm associated with their misuse. It is also incompatible with the Government's stated commitment to evidence based policy making since it has never undertaken research to establish the relationship between the Class of a drug and the signal sent out and there is, therefore, no evidence base on which to draw in making these policy decisions.\"\n\nJohn Donnelly, writing for the Boston Globe on the presidential race of 2000, suggested that the candidates' silence on drug policy may stem from a widely shared belief that any position even hinting at reducing penalties for drug use would be political suicide. Charles R. Schuster, director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse under Presidents Reagan and Bush (Snr.), was reported as saying in 1997, \"Talking sense about drug policy in today's climate of opinion can be political suicide.\"\n\nDrug policy academic Mark A.R. Kleiman has argued: \n\nScott Morgan reports how he once attended a discussion of Peter Reuter and David Boyum's book \"An Analytic Assessment of U.S. Drug Policy\", in which the authors admitted ignoring the legalization option in their analysis. Boyum claimed that there was no legitimate political support for ending the drug war and that he and Reuter had therefore confined themselves to recommendations that they thought were politically viable.\n\nTwo teenagers deaths in March 2010 triggered nationwide concern about the drug mephedrone in the UK. The Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs (ACMD) recommended a ban on 29 March, which was quickly passed into law, but the decision was criticised for being politically rather than scientifically driven and led to the resignation of the ACMD's Eric Carlin, the eighth member of the council to leave in five months in protest at what was seen as political interference. Toxicology reports released later in May 2010 revealed that the boys had never taken the drug.\n\nProfessor Colin Blakemore, professor of neuroscience at the University of Oxford, said: \"This shocking news should be a salutary lesson to tabloid journalists and prejudiced politicians who held a gun to the heads of the ACMD and demanded that this drug should be banned before a single autopsy had been completed ... The politicians talk about using drug classification as a way of sending 'messages' to young people. I fear that the only message that will be sent by the hasty decision on mephedrone is that the drug laws deserve no respect.\"\n\nProfessor David Nutt, the former chairman of the ACMD, said: \"the previous government's rush to ban mephedrone never had any serious scientific credibility – it looks much more like a decision based on a short-term electoral calculation. This news demonstrates why it's so important to base drug classification on the evidence, not fear, and why the police, media and politicians should only make public pronouncements once the facts are clear.\"\n\nA direct example of societal attitudes driving the International Drug Conventions is the 1925 speech by the Egyptian delegate M. El Guindy to the 1925 Geneva Convention forum which prohibited cannabis – largely reproduced in Willoughby, W. W.; In the late 19th and early 20th century drug use was regarded by the public \"as alone a habit, vice, sign of weakness or dissipation\", similar to the view of those who could not control their use of the licit drug alcohol. The use of illicit drugs has been prohibited internationally since 1912, an entire century, because of international agreement that the general community has a greater right to protect itself from the harms of illicit drug use than does an individual user to use a harmful substance recreationally.\n\nCurrently there is still greater public support for the continued prohibiting of illicit drug use than there is for legalizing and regulating the use of these substances. In the United States 82% of those polled by the Family Research Association in 1998 were opposed to the legalization of heroin and cocaine in the same manner as alcohol is legal. In October 2009 a Gallup poll found that 54% of those polled were against the legalization of cannabis. In Australia, which has had the highest levels of illicit drug use in Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (or OECD) countries for more than a decade, according to a 2007 survey, 95% of Australians do not support the legalization of heroin, cocaine and amphetamines, and 79% do not support the legalization of cannabis.\n\nIt can be argued that the negative attitudes to illicit drug use which issued in the international drug Conventions, with prohibitions against their use 100 years ago, still exist today. Taking again statistics from Australia, 97% disapprove of the regular use of heroin, 96% disapprove the regular use of amphetamines or cocaine, and 76.5% disapprove of the regular use of cannabis. In any democracy where \"the will of the people\" is respected by its political representatives, the prohibition of these substance might well be expected to remain intact.\n\nAccording to Transform Drug Policy Foundation, over the past decade there has been strong shift in public opinion in favour of drug policy reform. This shift has taken place \"despite\" successive government's reluctance to consider or debate the subject, or even call to for an independent inquiry.\n\nA national telephone survey conducted in 1993 found that between 52% and 55% of Australians believed that growing and possessing cannabis for personal use should be legalised.\n\nAn ICM poll of 1201 people for \"The Guardian\" in 1998 found that 47% believed that the illegality of drugs actually encourages young people to try them.\n\n46% of UK adults in a 2002 Guardian poll (of 1075) felt that drug addicts who register themselves as such should have access to certain illegal drugs via prescription.\n\nAn ICM poll of 1008 UK adults (aged 16+) for \"The Guardian\" in 2008 found that 38% would support a scheme, similar to that established in Portugal and Spain, whereby it is not a criminal offence to possess and use drugs privately.\n\nFollowing President Barack Obama's win of the 2008 presidential election, Change.gov hosted a service on their website named the Citizen's Briefing Book allowing United States citizens to give their opinion on the most important issues in America, and allow others to vote up or down on those ideas. The top ten ideas are to be given to Obama on the day of his inauguration, January 20, 2009. The most popular idea according to respondents was \"Ending Marijuana Prohibition\", earning 92,970 points and obtaining a total of 3,550 comments.\nThe second most popular hope, by contrast, was \"Commit to becoming the \"Greenest\" country in the world.\" with 70,470 points.\n\nMarijuana has seen a renaissance in its utopian representation in films such as the suburban satire \"American Beauty\" (1999, dir. Sam Mendes) and the stoner comedy \"Pineapple Express\" (2008, dir. David Gordon Green). Another venue for contemporary criticism of marijuana prohibition is television, such as the SHOWTIME series \"Weeds\" (2005–2012, dev. Jenji Kohan); the HBO series \"True Blood\" (2008–2014, dev. Alan Ball); and adult animation shows such as \"South Park\", \"Family Guy\", and \"American Dad!\".\n\nDavid Simon, creator of the television series \"The Wire\", in 2011 told U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder that he'd \"give him another season of the HBO show for an end to the war on drugs.\" Holder had invited show stars Wendell Pierce, Sonja Sohn, and Jim True-Frost to Washington on behalf of an anti-drug public relations campaign and at the time called on Simon and Ed Burns for another season or a movie of the show. Simon replied via a letter to a newspaper offering the trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31127780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31127780", "title": "Astronomical complex", "text": "Astronomical complex\n\nAn astronomical complex or commemorative astronomical complex is a series of man-made structures with an astronomical purpose. It has been used when referring to a group of Megalithic structures that it is claimed show high precision astronomical alignments. For the study of Archaeoastronomy, such complexes of similar structures are required for adequate measurement and calculation to ensure that similar celestial sightlines were intended by the designers. These arrangements have also been known as observational, ceremonial or ritual complexes with importance for the study of prehistoric cultures.\n\nThe term has been used in the naming of various series of observatories used for observing the stars in modern times.\n\nExamples of suggested ancient astronomical complexes that may have been used as solar and lunar observatories include, in reverse-chronological order:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nExamples of modern astronomical complexes of stellar observatories include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37674415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37674415", "title": "Bibliography of American Civil War Union military unit histories", "text": "Bibliography of American Civil War Union military unit histories\n\nThe following list is a Bibliography of American Civil War Union military unit histories. More details on each book are available at WorldCat.\n\nFor an overall national view see Bibliography of the American Civil War. For histories of the Confederacy see Bibliography of American Civil War Confederate military unit histories.\n\nFor a guide to the bibliography see:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n *Cannon, Robert K. \"Volunteers for Union and Liberty: History of the 5th Tennessee Infantry, U.S.A. 1862–1865\". Knoxville, Tennessee: Bohemian Brigade Publishers, 1995.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "588158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588158", "title": "Blackballing", "text": "Blackballing\n\nBlackballing is a rejection in a traditional form of secret ballot, where a white ball or ballot constitutes a vote in support and a black ball signifies opposition. This system is typically used where a club's rules provide that one or two objections, rather than an at-least-50% share of votes, are sufficient to defeat a proposition. Since the seventeenth century, these rules have commonly applied to elections to membership of many gentlemen's clubs and similar institutions such as Freemasonry and fraternities.\nA large supply of black and white balls is provided for voters. Each voter audibly casts a single ball into the ballot box under cover of the box, or of a combination of a cloth and the box itself, so that observers can see who votes but not how they are voting. When all voting is complete, the box is opened and the balls displayed: all present can immediately see the result, without any means of knowing which members are objecting.\n\nThe principle of such election rules in a club is that it is self-perpetuating to preserve the current ethos (and exclusivity) of the club, by ensuring that candidates are congenial to (almost) all the existing members; i.e., new members are elected by unanimous or near-unanimous agreement of voting members. A difference of opinions could be divisive, so that an election must be taken secretly as well as correctly.\n\nThe number of votes in support is often irrelevant, except to prove a quorum. Whilst in many such cases even a single black ball will be fatal to the candidate's election, rules in larger clubs ensure that a single member cannot exercise a veto to the detriment of the future of the club. For example, two black balls are required to exclude; a limited category or committee of members vote, rather than all members; or in the event of a blackball, the election may be repeated immediately to ensure that there is no mistake, or after a fixed period to allow further information or opinions to be discussed discreetly. A variant sometimes used is that all incoming candidates are voted on as a group; if the group as a whole is blackballed, then each member must be voted on individually.\n\nThe practice also found popularity in areas outside of social clubs. In the Soviet Union, dissertation panels would typically cast their vote on a thesis defense using this system.\n\n\"Robert's Rules of Order\" notes that the use of black and white balls can be ordered by passing an incidental motion to that effect. The manual notes, \"This custom, however, is apparently declining.\"\n\nThe term still remains in use for many different electoral systems which have applied from club to club and from time to time: for example, instead of differently coloured balls, ballot-balls may be dropped into separate \"yes\" or \"no\" drawers inside the ballot box.\n\nIn some Masons' lodges, a black cube is used instead of a black ball so that a black ball can be differentiated from a dirty white ball, as the lighting in the meeting hall is very dim during voting.\n\nThe following example from the rules of election to the Travellers Club, which is quoted from \"Dickens's Dictionary of London\" (1879), provides an illustration of the principle:\n"}
{"id": "57634458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57634458", "title": "Blackburn Female Reform Society", "text": "Blackburn Female Reform Society\n\nThe Blackburn Female Reform Society was established in early July 1819. They immediately sent a circular to other districts, inviting the wives and daughters of the workmen in the different branches of manufacturing to form themselves into similar societies. In response Manchester formed their own society of reformers on 20 July 1819.\n"}
{"id": "7354493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7354493", "title": "Book scanning", "text": "Book scanning\n\nBook scanning (or magazine scanning) is the process of converting physical books and magazines into digital media such as images, electronic text, or electronic books (e-books) by using an image scanner.\n\nDigital books can be easily distributed, reproduced, and read on-screen. Common file formats are DjVu, Portable Document Format (PDF), and Tagged Image File Format (TIFF). To convert the raw images optical character recognition (OCR) is used to turn book pages into a digital text format like ASCII or other similar format, which reduces the file size and allows the text to be reformatted, searched, or processed by other applications.\n\nImage scanners may be manual or automated. In an ordinary commercial image scanner, the book is placed on a flat glass plate (or platen), and a light and optical array moves across the book underneath the glass. In manual book scanners, the glass plate extends to the edge of the scanner, making it easier to line up the book's spine. Other book scanners place the book face up in a v-shaped frame, and photograph the pages from above. Pages may be turned by hand or by automated paper transport devices. Glass or plastic sheets are usually pressed against the page to flatten it.\n\nAfter scanning, software adjusts the document images by lining it up, cropping it, picture-editing it, and converting it to text and final e-book form. Human proofreaders usually check the output for errors.\n\nScanning at () is adequate for conversion to digital text output, but for archival reproduction of rare, elaborate or illustrated books, much higher resolution is used. High-end scanners capable of thousands of pages per hour can cost thousands of dollars, but do-it-yourself (DIY), manual book scanners capable of 1200 pages per hour have been built for US$300.\n\nCommercial book scanners are not like normal scanners; these book scanners are usually a high quality digital camera with light sources on either side of the camera mounted on some sort of frame to provide easy access for a person or machine to flip through the pages of the book. Some models involve V-shaped book cradles, which provide support for book spines and also center book position automatically.\n\nThe advantage of this type of scanner is that it is very fast, compared to the productivity of overhead scanners.\n\nProjects like Project Gutenberg (est. 1971), Million Book Project (est. circa 2001), Google Books (est. 2004), and the Open Content Alliance (est. 2005) scan books on a large scale.\n\nOne of the main challenges to this is the sheer volume of books that must be scanned. In 2010 the total number of works appearing as books in human history was estimated to be around 130 million. All of these must be scanned and then made searchable online for the public to use as a universal library. Currently, there are three main ways that large organizations are relying on: outsourcing, scanning in-house using commercial book scanners, and scanning in-house using robotic scanning solutions.\n\nAs for outsourcing, books are often shipped to be scanned by low-cost sources to India or China. Alternatively, due to convenience, safety and technology improvement, many organizations choose to scan in-house by using either overhead scanners which are time-consuming, or digital camera-based scanning machines which are substantially faster and is a method employed by Internet Archive as well as Google. Traditional methods have included cutting off the book's spine and scanning the pages in a scanner with automatic page-feeding capability, with subsequent rebinding of the loose pages.\n\nOnce the page is scanned, the data is either entered manually or via OCR, another major cost of the book scanning projects.\n\nDue to copyright issues, most scanned books are those that are out of copyright; however, Google Book Search is known to scan books still protected under copyright unless the publisher specifically prohibits this.\n\nFor book scanning on a low budget, the least expensive method to scan a book or magazine is to cut off the binding. This converts the book or magazine into a sheaf of looseleaf papers, which can then be loaded into a standard automatic document feeder (ADF) and scanned using inexpensive and common scanning technology. While this is not a desirable solution for very old and uncommon books, it is a useful tool for book and magazine scanning where the book is not an expensive collector's item and replacement of the scanned content is easy. There are two technical difficulties with this process, first with the cutting and second with the scanning.\n\nMore precise and less destructive than cutting pages with a paper guillotine or razor or scissors is the technique of meticulous unbinding by hand, assisted with tools. This technique has been successfully employed for tens of thousands of pages of archival original paper scanned for the Riazanov Library digital archive project from newspapers and magazines and pamphlets, varying from 50 to 100 years old and more, and often composed of fragile, brittle paper. Although the monetary value for some collectors (and for most sellers of this sort of material) is destroyed by unbinding, unbinding in many cases actually greatly assists preservation of the physical pages themselves, making them more accessible to researchers and less likely to be damaged when subsequently examined. The down side is that unbound stacks of pages are \"fluffed up\", and therefore more exposed to oxygen in the air, which may in some cases (theoretically) speed deterioration. This can be addressed by putting weights on the pages after they are unbound, and storage in appropriate containers.\n\nHand unbinding will preserve text that runs into the gutters of bindings, and most critically allows more easy and complete high quality scans to be made of two page wide material, such as center cartoons, graphic art, and photos in magazines. The digital archive of The Liberator 1918-1924 on Marxist Internet Archive nicely demonstrates the quality of two page wide graphic art scans made possible by careful hand unbinding prior to flat bed or other scanning.\n\nUnbinding techniques vary with the binding technology, from simply removing a few staples to unbending and removing nails to meticulous grinding down of layers of glue on the spine of a book to precisely the right point, followed by laborious removal of the string used to hold the book together.\n\nNote that with some newspapers (such as Labor Action 1950-1952) there are columns on the center facing pages that run right in-between the pages. Chopping off part of the spine of a bound volume of such papers will lose part of this text. Even the Greenwood Reprint of this publication failed to preserve the text content of those center columns, cutting off significant amounts of text there. Only when bound volumes of the original newspaper were meticulously unbound, and the opened pair of center pages were scanned as a single page on a flat bed scanner was the center column content made digitally available. Alternatively, one can present the two facing center pages as three scans. One of each individual page, and one of a page sized area situated over the center of the two pages.\n\nOne method of cutting a stack of 500 to 1000 pages in one pass is accomplished with a guillotine paper cutter. This is a large steel table with a paper vise that screws down onto the stack and firmly secures it before cutting. The cut is accomplished with a large sharpened steel blade which moves straight down and cuts the entire length of each sheet all at once. A lever on the blade permits several hundred pounds of force to be applied to the blade for a quick one-pass cut.\n\nA clean cut through a thick stack of paper cannot be made with a traditional inexpensive sickle-shaped hinged paper cutter. These cutters are only intended for a few sheets, with up to ten sheets being the practical cutting limit. A large stack of paper applies torsional forces on the hinge, pulling the blade away from the cutting edge on the table. The cut becomes more inaccurate as the cut moves away from the hinge, and the force required to hold the blade against the cutting edge increases as the cut moves away from the hinge.\n\nThe guillotine cutting process dulls the blade over time, requiring that it be resharpened. Coated paper such as slick magazine paper dulls the blade more quickly than plain book paper, due to the kaolinite clay coating. Additionally, removing the binding of an entire hardcover book causes excessive wear due to cutting through the cover's stiff backing material. Instead the outer cover can be removed and only interior pages need be cut.\n\nAn alternate method of unbinding books is to use a table saw. While this method is potentially dangerous and does not leave as smooth an edge as the guillotine paper cutter method, it is more readily available to the average person. The ideal method is to clamp the book between two thick boards using heavy machine screws to provide the clamping force. The entire wood and book package is fed through the table saw using the rip fence as a guide. A sharp fine carbide tooth blade is ideal for generating an acceptable cut. The quality of the cut depends on the blade, feed rate, type of paper, paper coating, and binding material.\n\nOnce the paper is liberated from the spine, it can be scanned one sheet at a time using a traditional flatbed scanner or automatic document feeder.\n\nPages with a decorative riffled edging or curving in an arc due to a non-flat binding can be difficult to scan using an ADF. An ADF is designed to scan pages of uniform shape and size, and variably sized or shaped pages can lead to improper scanning. The riffled edges or curved edge can be guillotined off to render the outer edges flat and smooth before the binding is cut.\n\nThe coated paper of magazines and bound textbooks can make them difficult for the rollers in an ADF to pick up and guide along the paper path. An ADF which uses a series of rollers and channels to flip sheets over may jam or misfeed when fed coated paper. Generally there are fewer problems by using as straight of a paper path as is possible, with few bends and curves. The clay can also rub off the paper over time and coat sticky pickup rollers, causing them to loosely grip the paper. The ADF rollers may need periodic cleaning to prevent this slipping.\n\nMagazines can pose a bulk-scanning challenge due to small nonuniform sheets of paper in the stack, such as magazine subscription cards and fold out pages. These need to be removed before the bulk scan begins, and are either scanned separately if they include worthwhile content, or are simply left out of the scan process.\n\nIn 1995, Phil Zimmerman published \"PGP Source Code and Internals\" as a $60 hardbound book, which under the First Amendment could legally be shipped abroad. The buyer could either display it in a library or destructively scan it so that the source code could be compiled via freely available GNU software into the Pretty Good Privacy (PGP) cryptosystem that the U.S. government regarded as a restricted munition. Zimmerman was being prosecuted for distributing PGP software and wanted to test the law in the courts. It was not directly tested, but export restrictions have eased: it is legal to export PGP anywhere but the seven countries and specified groups and individuals to which nothing can be exported from the U.S.\n\nSoftware driven machines and robots have been developed to scan books without the need of disbinding them in order to preserve both the contents of the document and create a digital image archive of its current state. This recent trend has been due in part to ever improving imaging technologies that allow a high quality digital archive image to be captured with little or no damage to a rare or fragile book in a reasonably short period of time.\n\nThe first fully automated book scanner was the DL (Digitizing Line) scanner, manufactured by 4DigitalBooks in Switzerland. First known installation was at Stanford University in 2001.\nScanner received a Dow Jones Runner-Up award under Business Applications Category in 2001.\n\nMost high-end commercial robotic scanners use traditional air and suction technology while some others use alternative approaches like bionic finger for turning the pages. Some scanners take advantage of Ultrasonic sensor or Photoelectric sensor to detect dual pages and prevent skipping of pages. With reports of machines being able to scan up to 2900 pages per hour robotic book scanners are specifically designed for large-scale digitization projects.\n\nGoogle's patent 7508978 shows an infrared camera technology which allows to detect and automatically adjust the three-dimensional shape of the page.\nResearchers from the University of Tokyo have an experimental non-destructive book scanner that includes a 3D surface scanner to allow images of a curved page to be straightened in software. Thus the book or magazine can be scanned as quickly as the operator can flip through the pages; about 200 pages per minute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38157111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38157111", "title": "Braunschweigisches Landesmuseum", "text": "Braunschweigisches Landesmuseum\n\nBraunschweigisches Landesmuseum (\"BLM\") is a history museum in Braunschweig, Germany, operated by the state of Lower Saxony. The museum is scattered on four locations: \"Vieweghaus\", \"Hinter Ägidien\" (both in Braunschweig), \"Kanzlei\" (Wolfenbüttel) and \"Bauernhausmuseum\" (Bortfeld).\n\nThe collection covers 500,000 years and includes objects from the history of the Braunschweig area, including culture, economy, technology, folk arts, and social history. Today, the BLM hosts a collection of 600,000 to 800,000 objects.\n\nThe museum's history dates back to October 11, 1891, when it was founded in the Duchy of Brunswick as \"Vaterländisches Museum für Braunschweigische Landesgeschichte\". Originally it was located in a street called \"Hagenscharrn\" in the city of Braunschweig. In 1938, the museum was renamed to Braunschweigisches Landesmuseum für Geschichte und Volkstum. This name remained until December 31, 1982.\n\nThe neoclassicist building, the former publishing house of Vieweg Verlag, hosts the main collection, and is located in the city center at the castle square (\"Burgplatz\"). A large part of the collection was moved there in 1986. \n\nLocated in the street \"Hinter St. Aegidien\", this annex exhibits Judaica and was opened to the public in 1746. Center piece is a synagogue interior from Hamburg.\n\nThis annex focuses on prehistoric and ancient history (500,000 BC until 8th century AD) of the region and was established there in 1959. The building was built in the 16th century and is located in the city center.\n\nThe Bortfelder Bauernhausmuseum section was opened in 1968 and is located in Bortfeld, a village in the municipality of Wendeburg, district of Peine. This museum reflects on the rural life of the region. The central attraction is a farmhouse from 1639 (reetgedecktes Hallenhaus).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36787", "title": "Budapest", "text": "Budapest\n\nBudapest is the capital and the most populous city of Hungary, and the tenth-largest city in the European Union by population within city limits. The city had an estimated population of 1,752,704 in 2016 distributed over a land area of about . Budapest is both a city and county, and forms the centre of the Budapest metropolitan area, which has an area of and a population of 3,303,786, comprising 33 percent of the population of Hungary.\n\nThe history of the city began when an early Celtic settlement transformed into a Roman town of Aquincum, the capital of Lower Pannonia. The Hungarians arrived in the territory in the late 9th century. By the 11th century, Buda and Óbuda (Old Buda) became the names of their settlements on the west bank of the river Danube, with a formerly Slavic and then German settlement Pest on the opposite side. The area was pillaged by the Mongols in 1241. The Battle of Mohács in 1526 was followed by nearly 150 years of Ottoman rule. After the reconquest of Buda in 1686, the region entered a new age of prosperity. Pest-Buda became a global city with the unification of Buda, Óbuda, and Pest on November 17, 1873, with the name 'Budapest' given to the new capital. Budapest also became the co-capital of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, a great power that dissolved in 1918, following World War I. The city was the focal point of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, the Battle of Budapest in 1945, and the Hungarian Revolution of 1956.\n\nBudapest is a Beta+ global city with strengths in commerce, finance, media, art, fashion, research, technology, education, and entertainment. It is Hungary's financial centre and the highest ranked Central and Eastern European city on Innovation Cities Top 100 index, as well ranked as the second fastest-developing urban economy in Europe. Budapest is host to many major international organization's regional offices, including the United Nations and ICDT, furthermore it is the headquarters of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, the European Police College and the first foreign office of the China Investment Promotion Agency. Over 40 colleges and universities are located in Budapest, including the Eötvös Loránd University, Semmelweis University and the notable Budapest University of Technology and Economics. Opened in 1896, the city's subway system, the Budapest Metro, serves 1.27 million, while the Budapest Tram Network serves 1.08 million passengers daily.\n\nBudapest is cited as one of the most beautiful cities in Europe, ranked as \"the world's second best city\" by \"Condé Nast Traveler\", and \"Europe's 7th most idyllic place to live\" by Forbes. Among Budapest's important museums and cultural institutions is the Museum of Fine Arts. Further famous cultural institutions are the Hungarian National Museum, House of Terror, Franz Liszt Academy of Music, Hungarian State Opera House and National Széchényi Library. The central area of the city along the Danube River is classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site and has many notable monuments, including the Hungarian Parliament, Buda Castle, Fisherman's Bastion, Gresham Palace, Széchenyi Chain Bridge, Matthias Church and the Liberty Statue. Other famous landmarks include Andrássy Avenue, St. Stephen's Basilica, Heroes' Square, the Great Market Hall, the Nyugati Railway Station built by the Eiffel Company of Paris in 1877 and the second-oldest metro line in the world, the Millennium Underground Railway. The city also has around 80 geothermal springs, the largest thermal water cave system, second largest synagogue, and third largest Parliament building in the world. Budapest attracts 4.4 million international tourists per year, making it a popular destination in Europe.\n\nThe previously separate towns of Buda, Óbuda, and Pest were in 1873 officially unified and given the new name \"Budapest\". Prior to this, the towns together had sometimes been referred to colloquially as \"Pest-Buda\". \"Pest\" has also been sometimes used colloquially as a shortened name for Budapest.\n\nAll varieties of English pronounce the \"-s-\" as in the English word \"pest\". The \"-u\" in \"Buda-\" is pronounced either /u/ like \"food\" (as in ) or /yu/ like \"cue\" (as in ). In Hungarian, the \"-s-\" is pronounced /sh/ as in \"wash\"; in IPA: .\n\nThe origins of the names \"Buda\" and \"Pest\" are obscure. The first name probably comes from:\n\nLinguistically, however, a German origin through the Slavic derivative вода (\"voda\", water) is not possible, and there is no certainty that a Turkic word really comes from the word \"buta\" ~ \"buda\" 'branch, twig'.\n\nAccording to a legend recorded in chronicles from the Middle Ages, Buda comes from the name of its founder, Bleda, brother of Hunnic ruler Attila.\n\nThere are several theories about Pest. One states that the name derives from Roman times, since there was a local fortress (Contra-Aquincum) called by Ptolemaios \"Pession\" (\"Πέσσιον\", iii.7.§ 2). Another has it that Pest originates in the Slavic word for cave, \"пещера\", or \"peštera\". A third cites \"пещ\", or \"pešt\", referencing a cave where fires burned or a limekiln.\n\nThe first settlement on the territory of Budapest was built by Celts before 1 AD. It was later occupied by the Romans. The Roman settlement – Aquincum – became the main city of Pannonia Inferior in 106 AD. At first it was a military settlement, and gradually the city rose around it, making it the focal point of the city's commercial life. Today this area corresponds to the Óbuda district within Budapest. The Romans constructed roads, amphitheaters, baths and houses with heated floors in this fortified military camp. The Roman city of Aquincum is the best-conserved of the Roman sites in Hungary. The archaeological site was turned into a museum with inside and open-air sections.\n\nThe Magyar tribes led by Árpád, forced out of their original homeland north of Bulgaria by Tsar Simeon after the Battle of Southern Buh, settled in the territory at the end of the 9th century displacing the founding Bulgarian settlers of the towns of Buda and Pest, and a century later officially founded the Kingdom of Hungary. Research places the probable residence of the Árpáds as an early place of central power near what became Budapest. The Tatar invasion in the 13th century quickly proved it is difficult to defend a plain. King Béla IV of Hungary therefore ordered the construction of reinforced stone walls around the towns and set his own royal palace on the top of the protecting hills of Buda. In 1361 it became the capital of Hungary.\n\nThe cultural role of Buda was particularly significant during the reign of King Matthias Corvinus. The Italian Renaissance had a great influence on the city. His library, the Bibliotheca Corviniana, was Europe's greatest collection of historical chronicles and philosophic and scientific works in the 15th century, and second only in size to the Vatican Library. After the foundation of the first Hungarian university in Pécs in 1367 (University of Pécs), the second one was established in Óbuda in 1395 (University of Óbuda). The first Hungarian book was printed in Buda in 1473. Buda had about 5,000 inhabitants around 1500.\n\nThe Ottomans conquered Buda in 1526, as well in 1529, and finally occupied it in 1541. The Turkish Rule lasted for more than 140 years. The Turks Ottomans constructed many prominent bathing facilities within the city. Some of the baths that the Turks erected during their rule are still in use 500 years later (Rudas Baths and Király Baths). By 1547 the number of Christians was down to about a thousand, and by 1647 it had fallen to only about seventy. The unoccupied western part of the country became part of the Habsburg Empire as Royal Hungary.\n\nIn 1686, two years after the unsuccessful siege of Buda, a renewed campaign was started to enter the Hungarian capital. This time, the Holy League's army was twice as large, containing over 74,000 men, including German, Croat, Dutch, Hungarian, English, Spanish, Czech, Italian, French, Burgundian, Danish and Swedish soldiers, along with other Europeans as volunteers, artillerymen, and officers. The Christian forces seized Buda, and in the next few years, all of the former Hungarian lands, except areas near Timișoara (Temesvár), were taken from the Turks. In the 1699 Treaty of Karlowitz, these territorial changes were officially recognized to show the end of the rule of the Turks, and in 1718 the entire Kingdom of Hungary was removed from Ottoman rule.\n\nThe 19th century was dominated by the Hungarian struggle for independence and modernisation. The national insurrection against the Habsburgs began in the Hungarian capital in 1848 and was defeated one and a half years later, with the help of the Russian Empire. 1867 was the year of Reconciliation that brought about the birth of Austria-Hungary. This made Budapest the twin capital of a dual monarchy. It was this compromise which opened the second great phase of development in the history of Budapest, lasting until World War I. In 1849 the Chain Bridge linking Buda with Pest was opened as the first permanent bridge across the Danube and in 1873 Buda and Pest were officially merged with the third part, Óbuda (Old Buda), thus creating the new metropolis of Budapest. The dynamic Pest grew into the country's administrative, political, economic, trade and cultural hub. Ethnic Hungarians overtook Germans in the second half of the 19th century due to mass migration from the overpopulated rural Transdanubia and Great Hungarian Plain. Between 1851 and 1910 the proportion of Hungarians increased from 35.6% to 85.9%, Hungarian became the dominant language, and German was crowded out. The proportion of Jews peaked in 1900 with 23.6%. Due to the prosperity and the large Jewish community of the city at the start of the 20th century, Budapest was often called the \"Jewish Mecca\" or \"Judapest\".\nIn 1918, Austria-Hungary lost the war and collapsed; Hungary declared itself an independent republic (Republic of Hungary). In 1920 the Treaty of Trianon partitioned the country, and as a result, Hungary lost over two-thirds of its territory, and about two-thirds of its inhabitants, including 3.3 million out of 15 million ethnic Hungarians.\n\nIn 1944, a year before the end of World War II, Budapest was partly destroyed by British and American air raids (first attack 4 April 1944).\nFrom 24 December 1944 to 13 February 1945, the city was besieged during the Battle of Budapest. Budapest suffered major damage caused by the attacking Soviet and Romanian troops and the defending German and Hungarian troops. More than 38,000 civilians lost their lives during the conflict. All bridges were destroyed by the Germans. The stone lions that have decorated the Chain Bridge since 1852 survived the devastation of the war.\n\nBetween 20% and 40% of Greater Budapest's 250,000 Jewish inhabitants died through Nazi and Arrow Cross Party, during the German occupation of Hungary, from 1944 to early 1945. \n\nSwiss diplomat Carl Lutz rescued tens of thousands of Jews by issuing Swiss protection papers and designating numerous buildings, including the now famous Glass House (Üvegház) at Vadász Street 29, to be Swiss protected territory. About 3,000 Hungarian Jews found refuge at the Glass House and in a neighboring building. Swedish diplomat Raoul Wallenberg saved the lives of tens of thousands of Jews in Budapest by giving them Swedish protection papers and taking them under his consular protection. Wallenberg was abducted by the Russians on 17 January 1945 and never regained freedom. Giorgio Perlasca, an Italian citizen, saved thousands of Hungarian Jews posing as a Spanish diplomat. Some other diplomats also abandoned diplomatic protocol and rescued Jews. There are two monuments for Wallenberg, one for Carl Lutz and one for Giorgio Perlasca in Budapest.\n\nFollowing the liberation of Hungary from Nazi Germany by the Red Army, Soviet military occupation ensued, which ended only in 1991. The Soviets exerted significant influence on Hungarian political affairs. In 1949, Hungary was declared a communist People's Republic (People's Republic of Hungary). The new Communist government considered the buildings like the Buda Castle symbols of the former regime, and during the 1950s the palace was gutted and all the interiors were destroyed (also see Stalin era).\nOn 23 October 1956 citizens held a large peaceful demonstration in Budapest demanding democratic reform. The demonstrators went to the Budapest radio station and demanded to publish their demands. The regime ordered troops to shoot into the crowd. Hungarian soldiers gave rifles to the demonstrators who were now able to capture the building. This initiated the Hungarian Revolution of 1956. The demonstrators demanded to appoint Imre Nagy to be Prime Minister of Hungary. To their surprise, the central committee of the \"Hungarian Working People's Party\" did so that same evening. This uprising was an anti-Soviet revolt that lasted from 23 October until 11 November. After Nagy had declared that Hungary was to leave the Warsaw Pact and become neutral, Soviet tanks and troops entered the country to crush the revolt. Fighting continued until mid November, leaving more than 3000 dead. A monument was erected at the fiftieth anniversary of the revolt in 2006, at the edge of the City Park. Its shape is a wedge with a 56 angle degree made in rusted iron that gradually becomes shiny, ending in an intersection to symbolize Hungarian forces that temporarily eradicated the Communist leadership.\n\nFrom the 1960s to the late 1980s Hungary was often satirically referred to as \"the happiest barrack\" within the Eastern bloc, and much of the wartime damage to the city was finally repaired. Work on Erzsébet Bridge, the last to be rebuilt, was finished in 1964. In the early 1970s, Budapest Metro's East-West M2 line was first opened, followed by the M3 line in 1976. In 1987, Buda Castle and the banks of the Danube were included in the UNESCO list of World Heritage Sites. Andrássy Avenue (including the Millennium Underground Railway, Hősök tere, and Városliget) was added to the UNESCO list in 2002. In the 1980s, the city's population reached 2.1 million. In recent times a significant decrease in population occurred mainly due to a massive movement to the neighbouring agglomeration in Pest county, i.e., suburbanisation.\n\nIn the last decades of the 20th century the political changes of 1989–90 (Fall of the Iron Curtain) concealed changes in civil society and along the streets of Budapest. The monuments of the dictatorship were removed from public places, into Memento Park. In the first 20 years of the new democracy, the development of the city was managed by its mayor, Gábor Demszky.\n\nBudapest, strategically placed at the centre of the Carpathian Basin, lies on an ancient route linking the hills of Transdanubia with the Great Plain. By road it is south-east of Vienna, south of Warsaw, south-west of Moscow, north of Athens, north-east of Milan, and south-east of Prague.\n\nThe area of Budapest lies in Central Hungary, surrounded by settlements of the agglomeration in Pest county. The capital extends in the north-south, east-west direction respectively. The Danube enters the city from the north; later it encircles two islands, Óbuda Island and Margaret Island. The third island Csepel Island is the largest of the Budapest Danube islands, however only its northernmost tip is within city limits. The river that separates the two parts of the city is wide at its narrowest point in Budapest. Pest lies on the flat terrain of the Great Plain while Buda is rather hilly.\n\nThe wide Danube was always fordable at this point because of a small number of islands in the middle of the river. The city has marked topographical contrasts: Buda is built on the higher river terraces and hills of the western side, while the considerably larger Pest spreads out on a flat and featureless sand plain on the river's opposite bank. Pest's terrain rises with a slight eastward gradient, so the easternmost parts of the city lie at the same altitude as Buda's smallest hills, notably Gellért Hill and Castle Hill.\n\nThe Buda hills consist mainly of limestone and dolomite, the water created speleothems, the most famous ones being the Pálvölgyi cave (total length ) and the Szemlőhegyi cave (total length ). The hills were formed in the Triassic Period. The highest point of the hills and of Budapest is János hill, at above sea level. The lowest point is the line of the Danube which is above sea level. Budapest is also rich in green areas. Of the occupied by the city, is green area, park and forest. The forests of Buda hills are environmentally protected.\n\nThe city's importance in terms of traffic is very central, because all major European roads and European railway lines lead to Budapest. The Danube was and is still an important water-way and this region in the centre of the Carpathian Basin lies at the cross-roads of trade routes.\nBudapest is one of only two capital cities in the world which has thermal springs (the other being Reykjavík in Iceland). Some 125 springs produce of thermal water a day, with temperatures ranging up to 58 Celsius. Some of these waters have medicinal effects due to their medically valuable mineral contents.\n\nBudapest has a borderline humid continental climate (Köppen \"Dfb\"), with relatively cold winters and warm summers according to the 1971-2000 climatological norm when the 0 °C isotherm is used.\nWinter (November until early March) can be cold and the city receives little sunshine. Snowfall is fairly frequent in most years, and nighttime temperatures of are not uncommon between mid-December and mid-February. The spring months (March and April) see variable conditions, with a rapid increase in the average temperature. The weather in late March and April is often very agreeable during the day and fresh at night. Budapest's long summer – lasting from May until mid-September – is warm or very warm. Sudden heavy showers also occur, particularly in May and June. The autumn in Budapest (mid-September until late October) is characterised by little rain and long sunny days with moderate temperatures. Temperatures often turn abruptly colder in late October. Spring and Autumn are generally mild.\n\nMean annual precipitation in Budapest is around . On average, there are 84 days with precipitation and 1988 hours of sunshine (of a possible 4383) each year.\n\nThe city lies on the boundary between Zone 6 and Zone 7 in terms of the hardiness zone.\n\nAs per the 1981-2010 climatological norm, widely used in most other European countries, the climate in Budapest has shifted to humid subtropical (Köppen \"Cfa\"), with averages above 0 °C in the coldest month and above 22 °C in the warmest.\n\nBudapest has architecturally noteworthy buildings in a wide range of styles and from distinct time periods, from the ancient times as Roman City of Aquincum in Óbuda (District III), which dates to around 89 AD, to the most modern Palace of Arts, the contemporary arts museum and concert hall.\n\nMost buildings in Budapest are relatively low: in the early 2010s there were around 100 buildings higher than . The number of high-rise buildings is kept low by building legislation, which is aimed at preserving the historic cityscape and to meet the requirements of the World Heritage Site. Strong rules apply to the planning, authorisation and construction of high-rise buildings and consequently much of the inner city does not have any. Some planners would like see an easing of the rules for the construction of skyscrapers, and the possibility of building skyscrapers outside the city's historic core has been raised.\n\nIn the chronological order of architectural styles Budapest represents on the entire timeline. Start with the Roman City of Aquincum represents the ancient architecture.\n\nThe next determinative style is the Gothic architecture in Budapest. The few remaining ones can be found in the Castle District. Buildings to look for are no. 18, 20 and 22 on Országház Street, which date back to the 14th century and No. 31 Úri Street, which has a Gothic façade that dates back to the 15th century. Another building with Gothic remains is the Inner City Parish Church (Budapest), built in the 12th century. The most characteristic Gothic-style buildings are actually Neo-Gothic, like the most well-known Budapest landmarks, the Hungarian Parliament Building. and the Matthias Church, where much of the original material was used (originally built in Romanesque style in 1015).\n\nThe next chapter of the human architecture is the Renaissance architecture and one of the earliest places to be influenced by the Renaissance style of architecture was Hungary and Budapest. The style appeared following the marriage of King Matthias Corvinus and Beatrice of Naples in 1476. Many Italian artists, craftsmen and masons came to Buda with the new queen. Today, many of the original renaissance buildings disappeared during the varied history of Buda, but Budapest is still rich in renaissance and neo-renaissance buildings, like the famous Hungarian State Opera House, the St. Stephen's Basilica and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.\n\nDuring the Turkish occupation (1541–1686), Islamic culture flourished in Budapest, multiple mosques and baths were built in the city. These were great examples of Ottoman architecture, which was influenced by Muslims from around the world not limited to Turkish, Iranian, Arabian and to a larger extent, Byzantine architecture as well as Islamic traditions. After Holy Army conquered Budapest they turned most of the mosques with Churches, Minarets were turned into bell towers and cathedral spires. At one point in time distinct sloping central square in Budapest became an bustling Oriental bazaar, which was filled with “the chatter of camel caravans on their way to Yemen and India”. Budapest is in fact one of the few places in the world with functioning original Turkish bathhouses dating back to the 16th century, like Rudas Baths or Király Baths. Another little known fact is that Budapest is home to the northernmost place where a Tomb of an influential Islamic Turkish Sufi Dervish, the Tomb of Gül Baba, a dervis could be found. Various cultures converged in Hungary seemed to coalesce well with each other, as if all these different cultures and architecture styles are digested into Hungary's own way of cultural blend. A precedent to show the city's self-conscious is the top section of the city's main square, currently named as Szechenyi. In medieval time. When Turks came to the city, they built Mosque here which was aggressively replaced with Gothic church of St. Bertalan. The rationale of reusing the base of the former Islamic building mosque and reconstruction into Gothic Church but Islamic style architecture over it is typically Islamic are still visible. An official term for the rationale is spolia. The mosque was called the djami of Pasha Gazi Kassim, and djami means mosque in Arabic. After Turks and Muslims were expelled and massacred from Budapest, the site was reoccupied by Christians and reformed into a church, the Inner City Parish Church (Budapest). The minaret and Turkish entranceway were removed. The shape of the architecture is its only hint of exotic past—“two surviving prayer niches facing Mecca and an ecumenical symbol atop its cupola: a cross rising above the Turkish crescent moon”.\n\nAfter 1686, the Baroque architecture designated the dominant style of art in catholic countries from the 17th century to the 18th century. There are many Baroque-style buildings in Budapest and one of the finest examples of original Baroque-style architecture is the Church of St. Anna in Batthyhány square. An interesting part of Budapest is the less touristy Óbuda, the main square of which also has some beautiful historic buildings with original Baroque façades. The Castle District is another place to visit where the best-known landmark Buda Royal Palace and many other buildings were built in the Baroque style.\n\nThe Classical architecture and Neoclassical architecture are the next in the timeline. Budapest had not one but two architects that were masters of the Classicist style. Mihály Pollack (1773–1855) and József Hild (1789–1867), built many beautiful Classicist-style buildings in the city. Some of the best examples are the Hungarian National Museum, the Lutheran Church of Budavár (both designed by Pollack) and the seat of the Hungarian president, the Sándor Palace. The most iconic and widely known Classicist-style attraction in Budapest is the Chain Bridge. Budapest's two most beautiful Romantic architecture buildings are the Great Synagogue in Dohány Street and the Vigadó Concert Hall on the Danube Promenade, both designed by architect Frigyes Feszl (1821–1884). Another noteworthy structure is the Budapest Western Railway Station, which was designed by August de Serres and built by the Eiffel Company of Paris in 1877.\n\nArt Nouveau came into fashion in Budapest by the exhibitions which were held in and around 1896 and organised in connection with the Hungarian Millennium celebrations. Art Nouveau in Hungary (\"Szecesszió\" in Hungarian) is a blend of several architectural styles, with a focus on Hungary's specialities. One of the leading Art Nouveau architects, Ödön Lechner (1845–1914), was inspired by Indian and Syrian architecture as well as traditional Hungarian decorative designs. One of his most beautiful buildings in Budapest is the Museum of Applied Arts. Another examples for Art Nouveau in Budapest is the Gresham Palace in front of the Chain Bridge, the Hotel Gellért, the Franz Liszt Academy of Music or Budapest Zoo and Botanical Garden.\n\nThe second half of the 20th century also saw, under the communist regime, the construction of blocks of flats (panelház), as in other Eastern European countries. In the 21st century, Budapest faces new challenges in its architecture. The pressure towards the high-rise buildings is unequivocal among today's world cities, but preserving Budapest's unique cityscape and its very diverse architecture, along with green areas, is force Budapest to balance between them. The Contemporary architecture has wide margin in the city. Public spaces attract heavy investment by business and government also, so that the city has gained entirely new (or renovated and redesigned) squares, parks and monuments, for example the city central Kossuth Lajos square, Deák Ferenc square and Liberty Square. Budapest's current urban landscape is one of the modern and contemporary architecture. Numerous landmarks are created in the last decade in Budapest, like the National Theatre, Palace of Arts, Rákóczi Bridge, Megyeri Bridge, Budapest Airport Sky Court among others, and millions of square meters of new office buildings and apartments. But there are still large opportunities in real estate development in the city.\n\nMost of today's Budapest is the result of a late-nineteenth-century renovation, but the wide boulevards laid out then only bordered and bisected much older quarters of activity created by centuries of Budapest's city evolution.\nBudapest's vast urban area is often described using a set of district names. These are either informal designations, reflect the names of villages that have been absorbed by sprawl, or are superseded administrative units of former boroughs.\nSuch names have remained in use through tradition, each referring to a local area with its own distinctive character, but without official boundaries.\nOriginally Budapest had 10 districts after coming into existence upon the unification of the three cities in 1873. Since 1950, Greater Budapest has been divided into 22 boroughs (and 23 since 1994). At that time there were changes both in the order of districts and in their sizes. The city now consists of 23 districts, 6 in Buda, 16 in Pest and 1 on Csepel Island between them.\nThe city centre itself in a broader sense comprises the District V, VI, VII, VIII, IX and XIII on the Pest side, and the I, II, XI and XII on the Buda side of the city.\n\nDistrict I is a small area in central Buda, including the historic Buda Castle. District II is in Buda again, in the northwest, and District III stretches along in the northernmost part of Buda. To reach District IV, one must cross the Danube to find it in Pest (the eastern side), also at north. With District V, another circle begins, it is located in the absolute centre of Pest. Districts VI, VII, VIII and IX are the neighbouring areas to the east, going southwards, one after the other.\nDistrict X is another, more external circle also in Pest, while one must jump to the Buda side again to find Districts XI and XII, going northwards. No more districts remaining in Buda in this circle, we must turn our steps to Pest again to find Districts XIII, XIV, XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII, XIX and XX (mostly external city parts), almost regularly in a semicircle, going southwards again.\nDistrict XXI is the extension of the above route over a branch of the Danube, the northern tip of a long island south from Budapest. District XXII is still on the same route in southwest Buda, and finally District XXIII is again in southernmost Pest, irregular only because it was part of District XX until 1994.\n\nBudapest is the most populous city in Hungary and one of the largest cities in the European Union, with a growing number of inhabitants, estimated at 1,742,000 in 2014, whereby inward migration exceeds outward migration. These trends are also seen throughout the Budapest metropolitan area, which is home to 3.3 million people. This amounts to about 34% of Hungary's population.\nIn 2014, the city had a population density of 3,314 people per square kilometre (8,580/sq mi), rendering it the most densely populated of all municipalities in Hungary. The population density of Elisabethtown-District VII is 30,989/km² (80,260/sq mi), which is the highest population density figure in Hungary and one of the highest in the world, for comparison the density in Manhattan is 25,846/km².\n\nBudapest is the fourth most \"dynamically growing city\" by population in Europe, and the Euromonitor predicts a population increase of almost 10% between 2005 and 2030. The European Observation Network for Territorial Development and Cohesion says Budapest's population will increase by 10% to 30% only due to migration by 2050. A constant inflow of migrants in recent years has fuelled population growth in Budapest. Productivity gains and the relatively large economically active share of the population explain why household incomes have increased in Budapest to a greater extent than in other parts of Hungary. Higher incomes in Budapest are reflected in the lower share of expenditure the city's inhabitants allocate to necessity spending such as food and non-alcoholic drinks.\n\nAt the 2011 census, there were 1,729,040 people with 906,782 households living in Budapest. Some 1.6 million persons from the metropolitan area may be within Budapest's boundaries during work hours, and during special events. This fluctuation of people is caused by hundreds of thousands of suburban residents who travel to the city for work, education, health care, and special events.\nBy ethnicity there were 1,397,851 (80.8%) Hungarians, 19,530 (1.1%) Romani, 18,278 (1.0%) Germans, 6,189 (0.4%) Romanians, 4,692 (0.3%) Chinese and 2,581 (0.1%) Slovaks. 301,943 people (17.5%) did not declare their ethnicity. In Hungary people can declare more than one ethnicity, so the sum of ethnicities is higher than the total population. The city is home to one of the largest Jewish communities in Europe.\n\nA Hungarian Central Statistical Office report showed that also, the proportion of Romani in Budapest increased from 2% in 1990 to 4.6% in 2009.\n\nAccording to the same census, 1,600,585 people (92.6%) were born in Hungary, 126,036 people (7.3%) outside Hungary while the birthplace of 2,419 people (0.1%) was unknown.\nAlthough only 1.7% of the population of Hungary in 2009 were foreigners, 43% of them lived in Budapest, making them 4.4% of the city's population (up from 2% in 2001). Nearly two-thirds of foreigners living in Hungary were under 40 years old. The primary motivation for this age group living in Hungary was employment.\nAccording to the 2011 census, 1,712,153 people (99.0%) speak Hungarian, of whom 1,692,815 people (97.9%) speak it as a first language, while 19,338 people (1.1%) speak it as a second language. Other spoken (foreign) languages were: English (536,855 speakers, 31.0%), German (266,249 speakers, 15.4%), French (56,208 speakers, 3.3%) and Russian (54,613 speakers, 3.2%).\n\nBudapest is home to one of the most populous Christian communities in Central Europe, numbering 698,521 people (40.4%) in 2011. According to the 2011 census, there were 501,117 (29.0%) Roman Catholics, 146,756 (8.5%) Calvinists, 30,293 (1.8%) Lutherans, 16,192 (0.9%) Greek Catholics, 7,925 (0.5%) Jews and 3,710 (0.2%) Orthodox in Budapest. 395,964 people (22.9%) were irreligious while 585,475 people (33.9%) did not declare their religion.\n\nBudapest is a significant economic hub, classified as an Beta+ world city in the study by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network and it is the second fastest-developing urban economy in Europe as GDP per capita in the city increased by 2.4 per cent and employment by 4.7 per cent compared to the previous year in 2014.\nOn national level, Budapest is the primate city of Hungary regarding business and economy, accounting for 39% of the national income, the city has a gross metropolitan product more than $100 billion in 2015, making it one of the largest regional economy in the European Union.\nAccording to the Eurostat GDP per capita in purchasing power parity is 147% of the EU average in Budapest, which means €37.632 ($42.770) per capita.\nBudapest is also among the Top100 GDP performing cities in the world, measured by PricewaterhouseCoopers.\nThe city was named as the 52nd most important business centre in the world in the Worldwide Centres of Commerce Index, ahead of Beijing, Sao Paulo or Shenzhen and ranking 3rd (out of 65 cities) on MasterCard Emerging Markets Index.\nThe city is 48th on the UBS \"The most expensive and richest cities in the world\" list, standing before cities such as Prague, Shanghai, Kuala Lumpur or Buenos Aires.\nIn a global city competitiveness ranking by EIU, Budapest stands before Tel Aviv, Lisbon, Moscow and Johannesburg among others.\n\nThe city is a major centre for banking and finance, real estate, retailing, trade, transportation, tourism, new media as well as traditional media, advertising, legal services, accountancy, insurance, fashion and the arts in Hungary and regionally. Budapest is home not only to almost all national institutions and government agencies, but also to many domestic and international companies, in 2014 there are 395.804 companies registered in the city. Most of these entities are headquartered in the Budapest's Central Business District, in the District V and District XIII. The retail market of the city (and the country) is also concentrated in the downtown, among others through the two largest shopping centre in Central and Eastern Europe, the 186,000 sqm WestEnd City Center and the 180,000 sqm Arena Plaza.\n\nBudapest has notable innovation capabilities as a technology and start-up hub, many start-ups are headquartered and begin its business in the city, for instance deserve to mention the most well-known Prezi, LogMeIn or NNG. Budapest is the highest ranked Central and Eastern European city on Innovation Cities' Top 100 index. A good indicator of the city's potential for innovation and research also, is that the European Institute of Innovation and Technology chose Budapest for its headquarters, along with the UN, which Regional Representation for Central Europe office is in the city, responsible for UN operations in seven countries.\nMoreover, the global aspect of the city's research activity is shown through the establishment of the European Chinese Research Institute in the city. Other important sectors include also, as natural science research, information technology and medical research, non-profit institutions, and universities. The leading business schools and universities in Budapest, the Budapest Business School, the CEU Business School and Corvinus University of Budapest offers a whole range of courses in economics, finance and management in English, French, German and Hungarian. The unemployment rate is far the lowest in Budapest within Hungary, it was 2.7%, besides the many thousands of employed foreign citizens.\n\nBudapest is among the 25 most visited cities in the world, the city welcoming more than 4.4 million international visitors each year, therefore the traditional and the congress tourism industry also deserve a mention, it contributes greatly to the city's economy. The capital being home to many convention centre and thousands of restaurants, bars, coffee houses and party places, besides the full assortment of hotels. In restaurant offerings can be found the highest quality Michelin-starred restaurants, like Onyx, Costes, Tanti or Borkonyha. The city ranked as the most liveable city in Central and Eastern Europe on EIU's quality of life index in 2010.\n\nBudapest Stock Exchange, key institution of the publicly offered securities in Hungary and Central and Eastern Europe is situated in Budapest's CBD at Liberty Square. BSE also trades other securities such as government bonds and derivatives such as stock options. Large Hungarian multinational corporations headquartered in Budapest are listed on BSE, for instance the Fortune Global 500 firm MOL Group, the OTP Bank, FHB Bank, Gedeon Richter Plc., Magyar Telekom, CIG Pannonia, Zwack Unicum and more.\nNowadays nearly all branches of industry can be found in Budapest, there is no particularly special industry in the city's economy, but the financial centre role of the city is strong, nearly 40 major banks are presented in the city, also those like Bank of China, KDB Bank and Hanwha Bank, which is unique in the region.\n\nAlso support the financial industry of Budapest, the firms of international banks and financial service providers, such as Citigroup, Morgan Stanley, GE Capital, Deutsche Bank, Sberbank, ING Group, Allianz, KBC Group, UniCredit and MSCI among others. Another particularly strong industry in the capital city is biotechnology and pharmaceutical industry, these are also traditionally strong in Budapest, through domestic companies, as Egis, Gedeon Richter, Chinoin and through international biotechnology corporations, like Pfizer, Teva, Novartis, Sanofi, who are also has R&D and production division here. Further high-tech industries, such as software development, engineering notable as well, the Nokia, Ericcson, Bosch, Microsoft, IBM employs thousands of engineers in research and development in the city. Game design also highly represented through headquarters of domestic Digital Reality, Black Hole and studio of Crytek or Gameloft. Beyond the above, there are regional headquarters of global firms, such as Alcoa, General Motors, GE, Exxon Mobil, British Petrol, Hudson Legal, British Telecom, Flextronics, Panasonic Corp, Huawei, Knorr-Bremse, Liberty Global, Tata Consultancy, Aegon, WizzAir, TriGránit, MVM Group, Graphisoft, there is a base for Nissan CEE, Volvo, Saab, Ford, including but not limited to.\n\nAs the capital of Hungary, Budapest is the seat of the country's national government. The President of Hungary resides at the Sándor Palace in the District I (Buda Castle District), while the office of the Hungarian Prime Minister is in the Hungarian Parliament. Government ministries are all located in various parts of the city, most of them are in the District V, Leopoldtown. The National Assembly is seated in the Hungarian Parliament, which also located in the District V. The President of the National Assembly, the third-highest public official in Hungary, is also seated in the largest building in the country, in the Hungarian Parliament.\n\nHungary's highest courts are located in Budapest. The Curia (supreme court of Hungary), the highest court in the judicial order, which reviews criminal and civil cases, is located in the District V, Leopoldtown. Under the authority of its President it has three departments: criminal, civil and administrative-labour law departments. Each department has various chambers. The Curia guarantees the uniform application of law. The decisions of the Curia on uniform jurisdiction are binding for other courts.\nThe second most important judicial authority, the National Judicial Council, is also housed in the District V, with the tasks of controlling the financial management of the judicial administration and the courts and giving an opinion on the practice of the president of the National Office for the Judiciary and the Curia deciding about the applications of judges and court leaders, among others.\nThe Constitutional Court of Hungary is one of the highest level actors independent of the politics in the country. The Constitutional Court serves as the main body for the protection of the Constitution, its tasks being the review of the constitutionality of statutes. The Constitutional Court performs its tasks independently. With its own budget and its judges being elected by Parliament it does not constitute a part of the ordinary judicial system. The constitutional court passes on the constitutionality of laws, and there is no right of appeal on these decisions.\n\nBudapest hosts the main and regional headquarters of many international organizations as well, including United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, European Institute of Innovation and Technology, European Police Academy, International Centre for Democratic Transition, Institute of International Education, International Labour Organization, International Organization for Migration, International Red Cross, Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe, Danube Commission and even others. The city is also home to more than 100 embassies and representative bodies as an international political actor.\n\n\"Environmental issues\" have a high priority among Budapest's politics. Institutions such as the Regional Environmental Center for Central and Eastern Europe, located in Budapest, are very important assets.\nTo decrease the use of cars and greenhouse gas emissions, the city has worked to improve public transportation, and nowadays the city has one of the highest mass transit usage in Europe. Budapest has one of the best public transport systems in Europe with an efficient network of buses, trolleys, trams and subway. Budapest has an above-average proportion of people commuting on public transport or walking and cycling for European cities.\nRiding on bike paths is one of the best ways to see Budapest – there are currently about of bicycle paths in the city, fitting into the EuroVelo system.\n\n\"Crime\" in Budapest investigated by different bodies. United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime notes in their 2011 Global Study on Homicide that, according to criminal justice sources, the homicide rate in Hungary, calculated based on UN population estimates, was 1.4 in 2009, compared to Canada's rate of 1.8 that same year.\nThe homicide rate in Budapest is below the EU capital cities' average according to WHO also. However, the organised crime is associated with the city, the Institute of Defence in a UN study named Budapest as the \"global epicentres\" of illegal pornography, money laundering and contraband tobacco, and also the negotiation center for international crime group leaders.\n\nBudapest has been a metropolitan municipality with a mayor-council form of government since its consolidation in 1873, but Budapest also holds a special status as a county-level government, and also special within that, as holds a capital-city territory status. In Budapest, the central government is responsible for the urban planning, statutory planning, public transport, housing, waste management, municipal taxes, correctional institutions, libraries, public safety, recreational facilities, among others. The Mayor is responsible for all city services, police and fire protection, enforcement of all city and state laws within the city, and administration of public property and most public agencies. Besides, each of Budapest' twenty-three districts has its own town hall and a directly elected council and the directly elected mayor of district.\n\nIstván Tarlós, the current Mayor was re-elected mayor for another 5-year term on the 2014 local elections, he received 49.06% of the votes. He is an independent (but supported by Fidesz) who assumed the office first on 3 October 2010. The composition of the 33 seats in the Budapest General Assembly after the 2014 elections is in the table. The mayor and members of General Assembly are elected to five-year terms.\n\nThe Budapest General Assembly is a unicameral body consisting of 33 members, which consist of the 23 mayors of the districts, 9 from the electoral lists of political parties, plus Mayor of Budapest (the Mayor is elected directly). Each term for the mayor and assembly members lasts five years. Submitting the budget of Budapest is the responsibility of the Mayor and the deputy-mayor in charge of finance. The latest, 2014 budget was approved with 18 supporting votes from ruling Fidesz and 14 votes against by the opposition lawmakers.\n\nThe neo-Gothic Parliament, the biggest building in Hungary with its length, containing amongst other things the Hungarian Crown Jewels. Saint Stephen's Basilica, where the Holy Right Hand of the founder of Hungary, King Saint Stephen is on display. The Hungarian cuisine and café culture: for example, Gerbeaud Café, and the Százéves, Biarritz, Fortuna, Alabárdos, Arany Szarvas, Kárpátia and the world-famous Mátyás Pince Restaurants. There are Roman remains at the Aquincum Museum, and historic furniture at the Nagytétény Castle Museum, just 2 out of 223 museums in Budapest. Another historical museum is the House of Terror, hosted in the building that was the venue of the Nazi Headquarters. The Castle Hill, the River Danube embankments and the whole of Andrássy út have been officially recognized as UNESCO World Heritage Sites.\n\nCastle Hill and the Castle District; there are three churches here, six museums, and a host of interesting buildings, streets and squares. The former Royal Palace is one of the symbols of Hungary – and has been the scene of battles and wars ever since the 13th century. Nowadays it houses two impressive museums and the National Széchenyi Library. The nearby Sándor Palace contains the offices and official residence of the President of Hungary. The seven-hundred-year-old Matthias Church is one of the jewels of Budapest, it is in neo-Gothic style, decorated with coloured shingles and elegant pinnacles. Next to it is an equestrian statue of the first king of Hungary, King Saint Stephen, and behind that is the Fisherman's Bastion, built in 1905 by the architect Frigyes Schulek, the Fishermen's Bastions owes its name to the namesake corporation that during the Middle Ages was responsible of the defence of this part of ramparts, from where opens out a panoramic view of the whole city. Statues of the Turul, the mythical guardian bird of Hungary, can be found in both the Castle District and the Twelfth District.\n\nIn Pest, arguably the most important sight is Andrássy út. This Avenue is an elegant long tree-lined street that covers the distance from Deák Ferenc tér to the Heroes Square. On this Avenue overlook many important sites. It is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. As far as Kodály körönd and Oktogon both sides are lined with large shops and flats built close together. Between there and Heroes' Square the houses are detached and altogether grander. Under the whole runs continental Europe's oldest Underground railway, most of whose stations retain their original appearance. Heroes' Square is dominated by the Millenary Monument, with the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in front. To the sides are the Museum of Fine Arts and the Kunsthalle Budapest, and behind City Park opens out, with Vajdahunyad Castle. One of the jewels of Andrássy út is the Hungarian State Opera House. Statue Park, a theme park with striking statues of the Communist era, is located just outside the main city and is accessible by public transport.\n\nThe Dohány Street Synagogue is the largest synagogue in Europe, and the second largest active synagogue in the world. The synagogue is located in the Jewish district taking up several blocks in central Budapest bordered by Király utca, Wesselényi utca, Grand Boulevard and Bajcsy Zsilinszky road. It was built in moorish revival style in 1859 and has a seating capacity of 3,000. Adjacent to it is a sculpture reproducing a weeping willow tree in steel to commemorate the Hungarian victims of the Holocaust.\n\nThe city is also home to the largest medicinal bath in Europe (Széchenyi Medicinal Bath) and the third largest Parliament building in the world, once the largest in the world. Other attractions are the bridges of the capital. Seven bridges provide crossings over the Danube, and from north to south are: the Árpád Bridge (built in 1950 at the north of Margaret Island); the Margaret Bridge (built in 1901, destroyed during the war by an explosion and then rebuilt in 1948); the Chain Bridge (built in 1849, destroyed during World War II and the rebuilt in 1949); the Elisabeth Bridge (completed in 1903 and dedicated to the murdered Queen Elisabeth, it was destroyed by the Germans during the war and rebuilt in 1964); the Liberty Bridge (opened in 1896 and rebuilt in 1989 in Art Nouveau style); the Petőfi Bridge (completed in 1937, destroyed during the war and rebuilt in 1952); the Rákóczi Bridge (completed in 1995). Most remarkable for their beauty are the Margaret bridge, the Chain bridge and the Liberty bridge.\nThe world's largest panorama photograph was created in (and of) Budapest in 2010.\n\nTourists visiting Budapest can receive free maps and information from the nonprofit Budapest Festival and Tourism Center at its info-points. The info centers also offer the Budapest Card which allows free public transit and discounts for several museums, restaurants and other places of interest. Cards are available for 24-, 48- or 72-hour durations. The city is also well known for its ruin bars both day and night.\n\nBudapest has many municipal parks and most have playgrounds for children and seasonal activities like skating in the winter and boating in the summer. Access from the city center is quick and easy with the Millennium Underground. Budapest has a complex park system, with various lands operated by the Budapest City Gardening Ltd.\nThe wealth of greenspace afforded by Budapest's parks is further augmented by a network of open spaces containing forest, streams, and lakes that are set aside as natural areas which lie not far from the inner city, including the Budapest Zoo and Botanical Garden (established in 1866) in the City Park.\nThe most notable and popular parks in Budapest are the City Park which was established in 1751 (302 acres) along with Andrássy Avenue, the Margaret Island in the Danube (), the People's Park, the Római Part, and the Kopaszi Dam.\n\nThe Buda Hills also offer a variety of outdoor activities and views. A place frequented by locals is Normafa, offering activities for all seasons. With a modest ski run, it is also used by skiers and snow boarders - if there is enough snowfall in winter.\n\nSeven islands can be found on the Danube: Shipyard Island, Margaret Island, Csepel Island, Palotai-sziget (now a peninsula), Népsziget, Háros-sziget, and Molnár-sziget.\nNotable islands include:\n\nOne of the reasons the Romans first colonised the area immediately to the west of the River Danube and established their regional capital at Aquincum (now part of Óbuda, in northern Budapest) is so that they could utilise and enjoy the thermal springs. There are still ruins visible today of the enormous baths that were built during that period. The new baths that were constructed during the Turkish period (1541–1686) served both bathing and medicinal purposes, and some of these are still in use to this day.\n\nBudapest gained its reputation as a city of spas in the 1920s, following the first realisation of the economic potential of the thermal waters in drawing in visitors. Indeed, in 1934 Budapest was officially ranked as a \"City of Spas\". Today, the baths are mostly frequented by the older generation, as, with the exception of the \"Magic Bath\" and \"Cinetrip\" water discos, young people tend to prefer the lidos which are open in the summer.\n\nConstruction of the Király Baths started in 1565, and most of the present-day building dates from the Turkish period, including most notably the fine cupola-topped pool.\n\nThe Rudas Baths are centrally placed – in the narrow strip of land between Gellért Hill and the River Danube – and also an outstanding example of architecture dating from the Turkish period. The central feature is an octagonal pool over which light shines from a diameter cupola, supported by eight pillars.\n\nThe Gellért Baths and Hotel were built in 1918, although there had once been Turkish baths on the site, and in the Middle Ages a hospital. In 1927, the Baths were extended to include the wave pool, and the effervescent bath was added in 1934. The well-preserved Art Nouveau interior includes colourful mosaics, marble columns, stained glass windows and statues.\n\nThe Lukács Baths are also in Buda and are also Turkish in origin, although they were only revived at the end of the 19th century. This was also when the spa and treatment centre were founded. There is still something of an atmosphere of fin-de-siècle about the place, and all around the inner courtyard there are marble tablets recalling the thanks of patrons who were cured there. Since the 1950s it has been regarded as a centre for intellectuals and artists.\n\nThe Széchenyi Baths are one of the largest bathing complexes in all Europe, and the only \"old\" medicinal baths to be found in the Pest side of the city. The indoor medicinal baths date from 1913 and the outdoor pools from 1927. There is an atmosphere of grandeur about the whole place with the bright, largest pools resembling aspects associated with Roman baths, the smaller bath tubs reminding one of the bathing culture of the Greeks, and the saunas and diving pools borrowed from traditions emanating in northern Europe. The three outdoor pools (one of which is a fun pool) are open all year, including winter. Indoors there are over ten separate pools, and a whole host of medical treatments is also available. The Szécheny Baths are built in modern Renaissance style.\n\nBudapest is served by Budapest Ferenc Liszt International Airport (BUD) (named after Franz Liszt, the notable Hungarian composer), one of the busiest airports in Central and Eastern Europe, located east-southeast of the centre of Budapest, in the District XVIII. The airport offers international connections among all major European cities, and also to North America, Africa, Asia and the Middle East.\nAs Hungary's busiest airport, it handles nearly all of the country's air passenger traffic. Budapest Liszt Ferenc handled around 250 scheduled flights daily in 2013, and an ever-rising number of charters. London, Brussels, Frankfurt, Munich, Paris, and Amsterdam are the busiest international connections respectively, while Toronto, Montreal, Dubai, Doha and Alicante are the most unusual in the region.\nToday the airport serves as a base for Ryanair, Wizz Air, Budapest Aircraft Service, CityLine Hungary, Farnair Hungary and Travel Service Hungary among others. The airport is accessible via public transportation from the city centre by the Metro line 3 and then the airport bus No. 200E.\n\nAs part of a strategic development plan, €561 million have been spent on expanding and modernising the airport infrastructure until December 2012. Most of these improvements are already completed, the postponed ones are the new cargo area and new piers for terminal 2A and 2B, but these development are on standby also, and will start immediately, when the airport traffic will reach the appropriate level.\nSkyCourt, the newest, state-of-the-art building between the 2A and 2B terminals with 5 levels. Passenger safety checks were moved here along with new baggage classifiers and the new Malév and SkyTeam business lounges, as well as the first MasterCard lounge in Europe.\n\nPublic transit in Budapest is provided by the Centre for Budapest Transport (BKK, \"Budapesti Közlekedési Központ\"), one of the largest transportation authorities in Europe. BKK operates 4 metro lines (including the historic Line 1, the oldest underground railway in continental Europe), 5 suburban railway lines, 33 tram lines, 15 trolleybus lines, 264 bus lines (including 40 night routes), 4 boat services, and \"BuBi\", a smart bicycle sharing network. On an average weekday, BKK lines transports 3.9 million riders; in 2011, it handled a total of 1.4 billion passengers. In 2014, the 65% of the passenger traffic in Budapest was by public transport and 35% by car. The aim is 80%–20% by 2030 in accordance with the strategy of BKK.\n\nThe development of complex intelligent transportation system in the city is advancing; the application of smart traffic lights is widespread, they are GPS and computer controlled and give priority to the GPS connected public transport vehicles automatically, as well as the traffic is measured and analyzed on the roads and car drivers informed about the expected travel time and traffic by intelligent displays (EasyWay project). Public transport users are immediately notified of any changes in public transport online, on smartphones and on PIDS displays, as well car drivers can keep track of changes in traffic and road management in real-time online and on smartphones through the \"BKK Info\". As well all vehicles can be followed online and on smartphones in real-time throughout the city with the \"Futár\" PIDS system, while the continuous introducing of integrated e-ticket system will help the measurement of passenger numbers on each line and the intelligent control of service frequency.\n\nThe development of \"Futár\", the citywide real-time passenger information system and real-time route planner is finished already and now all of the public transport vehicle is connected via satellite system. The real-time information of trams, buses and trolleybuses are available for both the operators in the control room and for all the passengers in all stops on smartphone and on city street displays.\nThe implementation of latest generation automated fare collection and e-ticket system with NFC compatibility and reusable contactless smart cards for making electronic payments in online and offline systems in Budapest is started in 2014, the project is implemented and operated by the operator of Hong Kong Octopus card jointly with one of the leading European companies of e-ticket and automated fare collection, Scheidt & Bachmann. The deployment of 300 new digital contactless ticket vending machine will be finished by the end of 2014 in harmonization with the e-ticket system.\n\nThe tram lines no. 4 and 6 are the busiest city tram lines in the world, with one of the world's longest trams (54-metre long Siemens Combino) running at 2–3 minute intervals at peak time and 4–5 minutes off-peak. Day services are usually from 4am until between 11pm and 0:30am. Hungarian State Railways operates an extensive network of commuter rail services, their importance in the suburban commuter passenger traffic is significant, but in travel within the city is limited.\nThe organiser of public transport in Budapest is the municipal corporation \"Centre for Budapest Transport\" (Budapesti Közlekedési Központ – BKK), that is responsible for planning and organising network and services, planning and developing tariff concepts, attending to public service procurer duties, managing public service contracts, operating controlling and monitoring systems, setting and monitoring service level agreements related to public transport, attending to customer service duties, selling and monitoring tickets and passes, attending to integrated passenger information duties, unified Budapest-centric traffic control within public transport, attending to duties related to river navigation, plus the management of Budapest roads, operating taxi stations, unified control of bicycle traffic development in the capital, preparing parking strategy and developing an operational concept, preparation of road traffic management, developing an optimal traffic management system, organising and co-ordinating road reconstruction and more, in short, everything which is related to transport in the city.\n\nBudapest is the most important Hungarian road terminus, all of the major highways and railways ends within the city limits. The road system in the city is designed in a similar manner to that of Paris, with several ring roads, and avenues radiating out from the center. Ring road M0 around Budapest is nearly completed, with only one section missing on the west side due to local disputes. Currently the ring road is in length, and once finished it will be of highway in length.\n\nThe city is a vital traffic hub because all major European roads and European railway lines lead to Budapest. The Danube was and is still today an important water-way and this region in the centre of the Carpathian Basin lies at the cross-roads of trade routes.\nHungarian main line railways are operated by Hungarian State Railways. There are three main railway station in Budapest, the Budapest Eastern railway station, the Budapest Western railway station and Budapest Southern railway station, operating both domestic and international rail services. Budapest is one of the main stops of the on its Central and Eastern European route. There is also a suburban rail service in and around Budapest, three lines of which are operated under the name HÉV.\n\nThe river Danube flows through Budapest on its way from Germany to the Black Sea. The river is easily navigable and so Budapest historically has a major commercial port at Csepel District and at New Pest District also. The Pest side is also a famous port place with international shipping ports for cargo and for passenger ships. In the summer months, a scheduled hydrofoil service operates on the Danube connecting the city to Vienna.\n\nBKK (through the operator BKV) also provides public transport with boat service within the borders of the city. Four routes, marked D11-14, connect the 2 banks with Margaret Island and Hajógyári-island, from Római fürdő (Buda side, North to Óbudai island) or Árpád Bridge (Pest side) to Rákóczi Bridge, with a total of 15 stops. In addition, several companies provides sightseeing boat trips and also an amphibious vehicle (bus and boat) operates constantly.\n\nWater quality in Budapest harbours improved dramatically in the recent years, treatment facilities processed 100% of generated sewage in 2010. Budapesters regularly kayak, canoe, jet-ski and sail on the Danube, which has continuously become a major recreational site for the city.\n\nSpecial vehicles in Budapest, besides metros, include suburban rails, trams and boats. There are a couple of less common vehicles in Budapest, like the trolleybus on several lines in Pest, the Castle Hill Funicular between the Chain Bridge and Buda Castle, the cyclecar for rent in Margaret Island, the chairlift, the Budapest Cog-wheel Railway and children's railway. The latter three vehicles run among Buda hills.\n\nThe culture of Budapest is reflected by Budapest's size and variety. Most Hungarian cultural movements first emerged in the city. Budapest is an important center for music, film, theatre, dance and visual art. Artists have been drawn into the city by opportunity, as the city government funds the arts with adequate financial resources.\nBudapest is the headquarters of the Hungarian LGBT community.\n\nBudapest was named \"City of Design\" in December 2015 and has been a member of UNESCO Creative Cities Network since then.\n\nBudapest is packed with museums and galleries, and there are plenty of temporary exhibitions in the most unlikely of settings, particularly in summer. The city glories in 223 museums and galleries, which presents several memories, not only the Hungarian historical, art and science ones, but also the memories of universal and European culture and science. Here are the greatest examples among them: the Hungarian National Museum, the Hungarian National Gallery, the Museum of Fine Arts (where can see the pictures of Hungarian painters, like Victor Vasarely, Mihály Munkácsy and a great collection about Italian art, Dutch art, Spanish art and British art from before the 19th century and French art, British art, German art, Austrian art after the 19th century), the House of Terror, the Budapest Historical Museum, the Aquincum Museum, the Memento Park, Museum of Applied Arts and the contemporary arts exhibition Palace of Arts Budapest. In Budapest there are currently 837 different monuments, which represent the most of the European artistic style. The classical and unique Hungarian Art Nouveau buildings are prominent.\n\nA lot of libraries have unique collections in Budapest, such as the National Széchenyi Library, which keeps historical relics from the age before the printing of books. The Metropolitan Szabó Ervin Library plays an important role in the general education of the capital's population. Other libraries: The Library of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Eötvös University Library, the Parliamentary Library, Library of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office and the National Library of Foreign Literature.\n\nIn Budapest there are forty theatres, seven concert halls and an opera house. Outdoor festivals, concerts and lectures enrich the cultural offer of summer, which are often held in historical buildings. The largest theatre facilities are the Budapest Operetta and Musical Theatre, the József Attila Theatre, the Katona József Theatre, the Madách Theatre, the Hungarian State Opera House, the National Theatre, the Vigadó Concert Hall, Radnóti Miklós Theatre, the Comedy Theatre and the Palace of Arts, known as \"MUPA\". The Budapest Opera Ball is an annual Hungarian society event taking place in the building of the Budapest Opera (\"Operaház\") on the last Saturday of the carnival season, usually late February.\n\nSeveral annual festivals take place in Budapest. The Sziget Festival is one of the largest outdoor music festival in Europe. The Budapest Spring Festival includes concerts at several venues across the city. The Café Budapest Contemporary Arts Festival (formerly the Budapest Autumn Festival) brings free music, dance, art, and other cultural events to the streets of the city. The Budapest Wine Festival and Budapest Pálinka Festival, occurring each May, are gastronomy festivals focusing on culinary pleasures. The Budapest Pride (or Budapest Pride Film and Cultural Festival) occurs annually across the city, and usually involves a parade on the Andrássy Avenue. Other festivals include the Budapest Fringe Festival, which brings more than 500 artists in about 50 shows to produce a wide range of works in alternative theatre, dance, music and comedy outside the mainstream. The LOW Festival is a multidisciplinary contemporary cultural festival held in Hungary in the cities Budapest and Pécs from February until March; the name of the festival alludes to the Low Countries, the region encompassing the Netherlands and Flanders. The Budapest Jewish Summer Festival, in late August, is one of the largest in Europe.\n\nThere are many symphony orchestras in Budapest, with the Budapest Philharmonic Orchestra being the preeminent one. It was founded in 1853 by Ferenc Erkel and still presents regular concerts in the Hungarian State Opera House and National Theatre. Budapest also has one of the more active jazz scenes in Central Europe.\n\nThe dance tradition of the Carpathian Basin is a unique area of the European dance culture, which is also a special transition between the Balkans and Western Europe regions. The city is home to several authentic Hungarian folk dance ensembles which range from small ensembles to professional troupes. Budapest is one of the few cities in the world with a high school for learning folk dance.\n\nBudapest is home to a fashion week twice a year, where the city's fashion designers and houses present their collections and provide a meeting place for the fashion industry representatives. Budapest Fashion Week additionally a place for designers from other countries may present their collections in Budapest. Hungarian models, like Barbara Palvin, Enikő Mihalik, Diána Mészáros, Viktória Vámosi usually appearing at these events along international participants.\nFashion brands like Zara, H&M, Mango, ESPRIT, Douglas AG, Lacoste, Nike and other retail fashion brands are common across the city's shopping malls and on the streets.\n\nMajor luxury fashion brands such as Roberto Cavalli, Dolce & Gabbana, Gucci, Versace, Ferragamo, Moschino, Prada and Hugo Boss, can be found among the city's most prestigious shopping streets, the Fashion Street, Váci Street and Andrássy Avenue in Budapest's main upscale fashion district, the Leopoldtown.\n\nBudapest is a prominent location for the Hungarian entertainment industry, with many films, television series, books, and other media set there. Budapest is the largest centre for film and television production in Hungary. In 2011, it employed more than 50,000 people and generated 63.9% of revenues of the media industry in the country.\nBudapest is the media centre of Hungary, and the location of the main headquarters of Hungarian Television and other local and national TV and radio stations, such as M1, M2, Duna TV, Duna World, RTL Klub, TV2 (Hungary), EuroNews, Comedy Central, MTV Hungary, VIVA Hungary, Viasat 3, Cool TV, and Pro4, and politics and news channels such as Hír TV, ATV, and Echo TV. Documentary channels include Discovery Channel, Discovery Science, Discovery World, National Geographic Channel, Nat Geo Wild, Spektrum, and BBC Entertainment. This is less than a quarter of the channels broadcast from Budapest; for the whole picture see Television in Hungary.\n\nIn 2012, there were 7.2 million internet users in Hungary (72% of the population). and there were 2.3 million subscriptions for mobile broadband.\n\nIn the modern age, Budapest developed its own peculiar cuisine, based on products of the nearby region, such as lamb, pork and vegetables special to the region. Modern Hungarian cuisine is a synthesis of ancient Asiatic components mixed with French, Germanic, Italian, and Slavic elements. The food of Hungary can be considered a melting pot of the continent, with a culinary base formed from its own, original Magyar cuisine. Considerable numbers of Saxons, Armenians, Italians, Jews and Serbs settled in the Hungarian basin and in Transylvania, also contributing with different new dishes. Elements of ancient Turkish cuisine were adopted during the Ottoman era, in the form of sweets (for example different nougats, like white nougat called \"törökméz\"), quince (\"birsalma\"), Turkish delight, Turkish coffee or rice dishes like pilaf, meat and vegetable dishes like the eggplant, used in eggplant salads and appetizers, stuffed peppers and stuffed cabbage called \"töltött káposzta\". Hungarian cuisine was influenced by Austrian cuisine under the Austro-Hungarian Empire, dishes and methods of food preparation have often been borrowed from Austrian cuisine, and vice versa.\n\nBudapest restaurants reflect diversity, with menus carrying traditional regional cuisine, fusions of various culinary influences, or innovating in the leading edge of new techniques. Budapest' food shops also have a solid reputation for supplying quality specialised culinary products and supplies, reputations that are often built up over generations. These include many shops, such as Café Gerbeaud, one of the greatest and most traditional coffeehouses in Europe, or the Gundel restaurant and gastro shop in the City Park.\nFoodies can also find the highest quality foods served in several Michelin-starred restaurants, like Onyx, Costes, Borkonyha or Tanti.\n\nThe 1906 novel \"The Paul Street Boys\", the 1937 novel \"Journey by Moonlight\", the 1957 book \"The Bridge at Andau\", the 1975 novel \"Fateless\", the 1977 novel \"The End of a Family Story\", the 1986 book \"Between the Woods and the Water\", the 1992 novel \"Under the Frog\", the 1987 novel \"The Door\", the 2002 novel \"Prague\", the 2003 book \"Budapeste\", the 2004 novel \"Ballad of the Whisky Robber\", the 2005 novels \"Parallel Stories\" and \"The Historian\", the 2012 novel \"Budapest Noir\" are set, amongst others, partly or entirely in Budapest. Some of the better known feature films set in Budapest are \"Kontroll\", \"The District!\", \"Ein Lied von Liebe und Tod\", \"Sunshine\", \"An American Rhapsody\", \"As You Desire Me\", \"The Good Fairy\", \"Hanna's War\", \"The Journey\", \"Ladies in Love\", \"Mehbooba\", \"Music Box\", \"The Shop Around the Corner\", \"Zoo in Budapest\", \"Underworld\", \"\" and Spy. \"The Grand Budapest Hotel\" (2014) is a Wes Anderson film. It was filmed in Germany and set in the fictional Republic of Zubrowka which is in the alpine mountains of Hungary.\n\nBudapest hosted many global sport event in the past, among others the 1994 IAAF World Cross Country Championships, 1997 World Amateur Boxing Championships, 2000 World Fencing Championships, 2001 World Allround Speed Skating Championships, Bandy World Championship 2004, 2008 World Interuniversity Games, 2008 World Modern Pentathlon Championships, 2010 ITU World Championship Series, 2011 IIHF World Championship, 2012 European Speed Skating Championships, 2013 World Fencing Championships, 2013 World Wrestling Championships, 2014 World Masters Athletics Championships, 2017 World Aquatics Championships, and 2017 World Judo Championships, only in the last two decade. Besides these, Budapest was the home of many European-level tournaments, like 2006 European Aquatics Championships, 2010 European Aquatics Championships, 2010 UEFA Futsal Championship, 2013 European Judo Championships, 2013 European Karate Championships and will be the host of 4 matches in the UEFA Euro 2020, which will be held in the 67,889-seat new multi-purpose Puskás Ferenc Stadium, to mention a few.\n\nIn 2015 the Assembly of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Assembly of Budapest decided to bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics. Budapest has lost several bids to host the games, in 1916, 1920, 1936, 1944, and 1960 to Berlin, Antwerp, London, and Rome, respectively. The Hungarian Parliament also voted to support the bid on 28 January 2016, later Budapest City Council approved list of venues and Budapest became an official candidate for the 2024 Summer Olympic Games. However, they have recently withdrawn and only Paris and Los Angeles remain as candidates for the 2024 Olympics.\n\nNumerous Olympic, World, and European Championship winners and medalists reside in the city, which follows from Hungary's 8th place among all the nations of the world in the All-time Olympic Games medal table.\nHungarians have always been avid sports people: during the history of the Summer Olympic Games, Hungarians have brought home 476 medals, of which 167 are gold. The top events in which Hungarians have excelled are fencing, swimming, water polo, canoeing, wrestling and track & field sports. Beside classic sports, recreational modern sports such as bowling, pool billiard, darts, go-carting, wakeboarding and squash are very popular in Budapest, and extreme sports are also gaining ground. Furthermore, the Budapest Marathon and Budapest Half Marathon also attract many people every year. The city's largest football stadium is named after Ferenc Puskás, recognised as the top scorer of the 20th century and for whom FIFA's Puskás Award (Ballon d'Or) was named.\n\nOne of Budapest's most popular sport is football and it has many Hungarian League football club, including in the top level Nemzeti Bajnokság I league, like Ferencvárosi TC , MTK Budapest FC , Újpest FC , Budapest Honvéd FC , Vasas SC , Csepel SC , Budapesti TC .\n\nThe Hungarian Grand Prix in Formula One has been held at the Hungaroring just outside the city, which circuit has FIA Grade 1 license. Since 1986, the race has been a round of the FIA Formula One World Championship. At the 2013 Hungarian Grand Prix, it was confirmed that Hungary will continue to host a Formula 1 race until 2021. The track was completely resurfaced for the first time in early 2016, and it was announced the Grand Prix's deal was extended for a further 5 years, until 2026.\n\nBudapest is home to over 35 higher education institutions, many of which are universities. Under the Bologna Process, many offered qualifications are recognised in countries across Europe. Medicine, dentistry, pharmaceuticals, veterinary programs, and engineering are among the most popular fields for foreigners to undertake in Budapest. Most universities in Budapest offer courses in English, as well as in other languages like German, French, and Dutch, aimed specifically at foreigners. Many students from other European countries spend one or two semesters in Budapest through the Erasmus Programme.\n\nBudapest has quite a few sister cities and many partner cities around the world.\nLike Budapest, many of them are the most influential and largest cities of their country and region, most of them are the primate city and political, economical, cultural capital of their country.\nThe Mayor of Budapest says the aim of improving sister city relationships is to allow and encourage a mutual exchange of information and experiences, as well as co-operation, in the areas of city management, education, culture, tourism, media and communication, trade and business development.\n\nSome of the city's districts are also twinned to small cities or districts of other big cities; for details see the article List of districts and towns in Budapest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46631069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46631069", "title": "Bulverket", "text": "Bulverket\n\nThe Bulverket is the remnants of a large wooden fortification or bulwark at Lake Tingstäde on the island of Gotland, Sweden. When built, it consisted of a platform with houses surrounded by a double palisade with the entire construction around in diameter.\n\nAccording to a 1989 archeological survey, the structure was built in the 1130s and may have been used for less than a century. Although its original purpose is unknown, theories suggest it was either used as a shelter during the turbulent times on Gotland at the end of the Viking Age or that it was the site of a last stand.\n\nAmong the archeological finds at the Bulverket are the remains of three boats. One of these served as a model for the reconstruction of a Viking boat, the \"Krampmacken\", in 1980. The \"Krampmacken\" has subsequently made several journeys following old Viking waterways through Eastern Europe.\n\nThe name Bulverket originates from the old Swedish words \"bul\", meaning \"log\", and \"verk\" which refers to something \"built\". It is related to the English word \"bulwark\", a form of fortification, as well as the Dutch \"bolwerk\" with the same meaning and the Swedish \"bålverk\".\n\nIt is likely that the Bulverket has been known to the local people for centuries, as thousands of logs can be seen through the water on a calm day, and it is also considered the best place for perch fishing on the lake. However, there is no oral lore regarding its construction, purpose, or fate. All that remains is a saying used in the northern part of Gotland that concerns large amounts of smoke: \"There is smoke just like when Lake Tingstäde burned\".()\n\nThe Bulverket was first mentioned in written sources in 1868, when Swedish archeologist Oscar Montelius wrote that naturalist and teacher Dr. Lindström discovered poles in Lake Tingstäde in 1866.\n\nOne of the recommended ways of seeing the Bulverket is during the winter, when the ice is smooth and clear and the lake is used for tour skating.\n\nThe Bulverket is the remnants of a large wooden fortification or bulwark on the island of Gotland. It was raised in the middle of Lake Tingstäde, in the least accessible part of the lake. It has now collapsed and the logs are scattered over an area of . The main part of the Bulverket consisted of four piers on square caissons made of logs. The piers, wide, formed a square platform, each side of which was , with an open, but sheltered, water area in the middle. The platform was aligned so that each side faced one of the cardinal directions. On the platform were houses for people living on the Bulverket as well as storage sheds, and in the central part were landings for mooring boats. It is estimated that about 200 ships of the early Viking Age type could be moored there.\n\nThe platform was enclosed by two concentric circles of poles (or timber piles) driven into the bottom of the lake. In some parts, this outer defence stood as far as from the platform. The entire construction was about in diameter. The palisade and the platform had openings in the northwest part of the construction to allow boats in and out. Analysis of vertical posts show that the water surface is at approximately the same height when the Bulverket was built as it is today, but that the depth of the water has decreased due to sedimentation. The sedimentation layer is on the site.\n\nThe Bulverket was not surveyed and built as a single unit, but rather one caisson at a time. Some of these caissons were linked by making rectangular holes in the ends of the vertical logs, stacking the logs on top of each other and driving a horizontal pole about through the holes. The caissons were approximately high and covered with a flooring that rested above the water.\n\nThe houses were built using different methods such as post-and-plank, log house technique and palisade walls. Construction details found at the site indicates that the houses were approximately . A total of about 25,000 logs, mostly pine, were used to build the Bulverket. This equals approximately of forest. Studies of the construction show that it was built in a relatively short period of time, perhaps no less than a year. This would have required about 100 men to work on the site. Given the amount of organization needed for such a project and that the farms around Lake Tingstäde could not spare all of their workers for the construction, most of northern Gotland must have been involved in the work.\n\nAlthough the reason for the construction of the Bulverket is unknown, such a heavily fortified construction in the middle of a large lake suggests a place of refuge. The concept of such a building has no equivalent on Gotland or western Scandinavia, suggesting that it may have been influenced by Slavic or Baltic buildings. Different theories as to why this shelter was needed have been presented. At the beginning of the 12th century, pirates and lesser kings ravaged the Baltic Sea and the fortification may have been used as the site of a last stand in one of these battles. Many finds at the site indicate fishing and trade, and one theory is that it was a central trading and storage hub. Opposition to this theory points out that the fortification is too heavy for a simple trading post. During the time of the Bulverket, Gotland came under pressure from representatives of the new Christian religion, which climaxed with the island coming under the dominion of the diocese of Linköping. One theory is that it was built to make a stand against this tide of religious colonisation. Yet another theory has to do with the social upheaval that took place on Gotland at the end of the Viking Age. This was not a peaceful time, and Tingstäde was just as strategic then as it has been until the beginning of the 1900s. The chieftains on Gotland were at war and a shelter may have been needed by those avoiding the conflict. , none of the theories have so far been confirmed.\n\nBecause of Lake Tingstäde's natural sedimentation the remains of the Bulverket are well preserved and the underwater archeological finds from the site are in very good condition. Even small juniper boughs placed on the ice by the carpenters to mark the layout of the Bulverket during its construction have been preserved. It is likely that the logs and timbers were cut during the winter and transported on the ice to the Bulverket.\n\nArvid Zetterling, born in Åtvidaberg on 29May 1865, was a Captain with the Gotland Artillery Regiment who saw the Bulverket when he went fishing on Lake Tingstäde. He became fascinated by the logs he saw on the bottom of the lake and made a small survey of the Bulverket in 1915. However, it was not until he retired and became a Major in the reserve in 1918 that he could undertake a more thorough examination of the structure. The first real archeological survey started in 1921, despite the fact that Zetterling lived in Hässleholm at that time. He retired completely from the military in 1932, to spend most of his time studying the Bulverket. In 1932–35, he rented lodgings at Furubjär Farm in Tingstäde, where he also founded a museum dedicated to the Bulverket. The museum closed when he died on 18January 1939.\n\nZetterling was an amateur archeologist with limited resources. He dredged the site using homemade tools, drew large parts of the Bulverket sitting on a tall chair, resembling that of a tennis umpire's, in the lake and through contacts had aerial photos taken of the site. Zetterling was probably the first in Sweden to use aerial photography in archeology. During the dredging, he found mostly different types of timber from the platform and houses, among these a wooden chest about long made from a log, a watering trough, a ladder, the remnants of two kinds of boats as well as some bronze objects, floats, hazelnuts and bones from cattle, sheep, pigs and fowls. He also found some fire-damaged timber and therefore concluded that a large part of the Bulverket had burned down. He compiled a 1:50 scale \"Plan of the Bulverket\".\n\nThe latest surveys of the Bulverket were done in 1989–1994 and led by Johan Rönnby. Among other things, a side-scan sonar was used to map the bottom of the lake. Stratigraphic surveys were made of an area of in the south part of the site and 20 core samples were taken in different parts of the site. No dark earth was found, indicating that the construction was not used as a habitation for long. Neither were any traces of fire found, suggesting that if there was a fire, it must have been a relatively small one that did not destroy the entire Bulverket. An alternative hypothesis suggests that the construction became unstable and was abandoned before it finally collapsed.\n\nDendrochronological and Carbon-14 examinations shows that the Bulverket was built in the 1130s, and archeologists are trying to ascertain how long it was in use. The current estimates are a few years up to a century.\n\nDuring the survey in the 1920s, pieces of three different boats were found at the Bulverket then in the 1990 survey additional pieces of the largest of these came to light. A total of 29 pieces of the boat were found, but since many vital parts of it were missing, it is not possible to determine the vessel's exact measurements. It is estimated that the boat was approximately long, wide and had a draft of . It was clinker built, double-ended with a mast, probably with a\nsquare rig and side rudder. The construction of the boat was a common Viking style, the same design used for the longships and was probably used for fishing and the day-to-day activities on the lake.\n\nThe boat had a T-shaped keel, probably seven frames and six strakes joined with wooden pegs. This and the positioning of the mast in a hole in one of the frames, suggests influences from Slavic boatbuilding techniques. It is built in the tradition going back to the Hjortspring boat (400-300 BC) and is compared to the boats from Danzig-Ohra 2, Skuldelev 6 and Valsgärde 2.\n\nCarbon-14 dating of the boat was carried out in 1975 by the laboratory at the Swedish Museum of Natural History, which dated it to around 1200. This posed a problem since the boat would have been used by the inhabitants of the fortification, but the rest of the Bulverket was dated to the 1130s. It was later explained that the remnants of the boat were treated with linseed oil and alum in the 1930s, as part of the conservation process, and this may have distorted the results. Further examination of the wood showed that the boats were made of pine. The pieces of the boat were kept in the Swedish History Museum until 1975, when they were moved to the Maritime Museum for complete documentation.\n\nIn 1979–80, the \"Krampmacken\", a reconstruction of a Viking boat, was built based on the Bulverket boat. One of the initiators of the project was archeologist and director of the Gotlandic department of Swedish National Heritage Board (\"RAGU\"), Erik Nylén. It was named after the Gutnish word for the common Baltic shrimp, \"Palaemon adspersus\": \"krampmack\", since the shape of the boat resembled a small shrimp.\n\nThe boat is , has six oars and is manned by a crew of eleven people. While the hull is based on the Bulverket boat, the sail is patterned after sails depicted on Gotlandic picture stones. \"Krampmacken\" has in turn been used a model for other reconstructed Viking ships such as \"Nöiriven\" (1990), \"Aifur\" (1992), \"Thor Viking\" (1994) and \"Langsvaige\" (1997).\n\nIn 1983–85, the \"Krampmacken\" sailed from Gotland, via the Vistula and Danube rivers to the Black Sea and Istanbul, which was called \"Micklagård\" by the Swedish Vikings. In 1995–97, a journey was made following the Caucasus rivers all the way to Baku on the Caspian Sea. Following these expeditions, several other reconstructed Viking ships have made journeys on the rivers of Eastern Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "15518209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15518209", "title": "Chromolithe", "text": "Chromolithe\n\nChromolithe (\"light from stone\") is a light art that gives the impression that the buildings have been painted with glowing colours. \nChromolithe installations have been made for cathedrals and churches, historic public buildings, modern art museums, and even banks.\n\nThe chromolithe process starts with data collection, using a specially-built photographic chamber, months of meticulous art work on computer screens, and finally re-projecting the image, printed to 24x24 cm photographic plates, back onto the building from a series of custom-built 6000Kva Xenon projectors, discreetly placed, so as to make the light source appear invisible. \n\nSome of the cathedrals and intricate sculptured Gothic buildings that have been chromolithed, were originally painted. Thus, work like that of Patrice Warrener's can be seen as a restoration of heritage buildings.\n\n"}
{"id": "46522621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46522621", "title": "Dal Yong Jin", "text": "Dal Yong Jin\n\nDal Yong Jin is a media studies scholar. He is a professor in the School of Communication at Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, Canada where his research explores platform technologies and ICTs, digital games, media history, political economy of communication, globalization and trans-nationalization, and science journalism. He has published 14 books and penned more than 120 journal articles and book chapters. Jin has delivered numerous keynote speeches, conference presentations, invited lectures, and media interviews on subjects such as digital platforms, video games, globalization, transnational culture, and the Korean Wave.\n\nJin was born in Suwon, South Korea. He attended Yonsei University. After working as a newspaper reporter for many years, he resumed his academic journey. He holds a master's degree in Public Affairs from the University of Texas at Austin. In 2005 he received his Ph.D. degree at the Institute of Communications Research from the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.\n\n\nJin has developed several significant theories and conceptual frameworks, such as platform imperialism, de-convergence, and new Korean wave, as well as e-Sports. His works have been received well in several fields, including political economy of communication, globalization, digital games, and Asian media studies. In particular, as Vincent Mosco indicates in his book titled Political Economy of Communication (2009)., Jin has been known as a leading political economist. He has also been known as a cultural economist among some scholars, including Japanese media scholars, as indicated in Mechademia 1: Emerging Worlds of Anime and Manga Jin's research has received a number of awards and grants from national and international associations, including the International Communication Association, the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the National Research Foundation of Korea, the Korean American Communication Association, and the Academy of Korean Studies. He was also nominated for Young Scholar Award at the International Communication Association. His book titled Korea's Online Game Empire was nominated as the Book of the Year at the International Communication Association. Jin is founding editor of a book series entitled Routledge Research in Digital Media and Culture in Asia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57145856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57145856", "title": "Eviction in the United States", "text": "Eviction in the United States\n\nThe procedure and rate of eviction in the United States varies by locality. Landlord-initiated expulsion of tenants is not officially tracked or monitored by the Federal government, and has historically not been subject to comprehensive analysis. The 2016 publication of the book \"\" by Matthew Desmond raised awareness of the issue. A database created by Desmond found that landlords had been granted eviction notices for one in 50 renter households in analyzed regions. This rate only counts evictions that engage the legal process, as many evictions are informally conducted between landlords and renters, it likely undercounts actual evictions.\n\nMost evictions in the United States occur because the tenant cannot or will not pay rent. Landlords can also expel tenants for breaking the law, damaging property, sub-leasing, or causing a disturbance. In most American municipalities, tenants who haven't violated their lease can be expelled, in what is known as \"no-fault evictions.\" \n\nMost renting families under the poverty line spend more than 50% of their income on rent, with one in four such families spending over 70% of their income on rent and utilities. About one in four low-income renters receives housing assistance. Eviction rates are higher in communities with multiple aggravating factors, including high levels of poverty. These include local laws that give advantage to landowners and a lack of available affordable housing that would increase market pressures to keep rents low. \n\nWhen housing pressures are extreme, even middle-class and working class renters are evicted by landlords eager to capitalize on the rising market rates, such as in San Francisco during the various tech booms. In such circumstances, landlords may seize upon minor violations that were previously tolerated, such as keeping a small pet or storing a bicycle in the hallway, to evict renters. The situation in California is aggravated by the Ellis Act, which allows landlords to evict tenants and immediately sell the vacant apartments as condominiums.\n\nEvictions disproportionately affect low-income women, in particular women of color. Approximately one in five African-American women renters report being evicted as some point in their life, while the equivalent rate for white women renters is one in 15. Victims of domestic violence and families with children are also at high risk of eviction. Renters who appear in eviction court are three times more likely to actually be evicted if they live with children.\n\nEviction is a cause of poverty, as well as a result of it. The loss of home often results in the loss of community connections, as well as children being forced into a new school. Possessions are routinely lost, as they are placed outside on the sidewalk or placed in storage that can only be accessed by paying a fee. A legal eviction typically goes on the permanent record of the boarder, resulting in automatic rejection by other landlords or housing authorities.\n\nPersons who are evicted lose their jobs at higher rates, either because of the new stress or because the job is no longer easily accessible in a new residence. Mental health often suffers, with one study finding that evicted mothers reported higher rates of depression two years after being expelled.\n\nThere is no government reporting system on eviction, so variance by location and time were, at best, little understood and, at worst, invisible. This began to change with the implementation of Princeton University's Eviction Lab which published the results of an analysis of 900,000 eviction notices that occurred in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "11529567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11529567", "title": "Franz Kafka bibliography", "text": "Franz Kafka bibliography\n\nFranz Kafka, a German-language writer of novels and short stories, regarded by critics as one of the most influential authors of the 20th century, was trained as a lawyer and was employed by an insurance company, writing only in his spare time.\n\nKafka wrote hundreds of letters to family and close female friends, including his father, his fiancée Felice Bauer, and his youngest sister Ottla.\n\nOnly a few of Kafka's works were published during his lifetime: the story collections ' (\"Contemplation\") and ' (\"A Country Doctor\"), and individual stories (such as \"\" (\"The Metamorphosis\")) in literary magazines. He prepared the story collection ' (\"A Hunger Artist\") for print, but it was not published until after his death. Kafka's unfinished works, including his novels ', ' and ' (also known as \"\", \"The Man Who Disappeared\"), were published posthumously, mostly by his friend Max Brod, who ignored Kafka's wish to have the manuscripts destroyed. Brod also published letters, diaries and aphorisms.\n\nMany of Kafka's works have uncertain dates of writing and/or were written over long periods of time. In such cases the year the writing of the work began is used. Year and place of the first publication is shown. For many works the German text is available, for several works also an English translation. It is linked in columns \"de\" (short for \"deutsch\", German) and \"en\" (short for English).\n\nKafka often made extensive use of a characteristic particular to the German language allowing for long sentences that sometimes can span an entire page. Kafka's sentences then deliver an unexpected impact just before the full stop—that being the finalizing meaning and focus. This is achieved due to the construction of certain sentences in German which require that the verb be positioned at the end of the sentence. Such constructions are difficult to duplicate in other languages, so it is up to the resourceful translator to provide the reader with the same (or at least equivalent) effect found in the original text. German's more flexible word order is not the only problem translating German into other languages. German also lacks an informal language register, uses modal connectives, and syntactic structures which can be translated in more than one way. Kafka did not write in standard High German, but rather in a Praguean German heavily influenced by the Yiddish and Czech languages. This has led philosophers Deleuze and Guattari to describe Kafka's linguistic style as \"deterritorialized\", characterized by a \"withered vocabulary\" and an \"incorrect syntax\".\n\nGerman sentences also have a different syntactic structure. Unlike English, German is a verb-final language, which places the main verb of a verb string (e.g., \"transformed\" in \"had been transformed\") at the end of a phrase. The difference can be seen in the contrast between the original German version of the first sentence in Kafka's \"The Metamorphosis\":\n\nAnother virtually insurmountable problem facing translators is how to deal with the author's intentional use of ambiguous idioms and words that have several meanings which result in writings difficult to precisely translate. One such instance is found in the first sentence of \"The Metamorphosis\". English translators have often sought to render the word \"Ungeziefer\" as \"insect\"; in today's German it means vermin. It is sometimes used colloquially to mean \"bug\" – a very general term, unlike the scientific sounding \"insect\". Kafka had no intention of labeling Gregor, the protagonist of the story, as any specific thing, but instead wanted to convey Gregor's disgust at his transformation.\nTranslators have chosen numerous inexact and unsatisfactory ways to represent \"[zu einem] ungeheuren Ungeziefer\", unable to convey the repetition of the first two syllables and the equal four syllables of the two words in German:\n\nAnother example is Kafka's use of the German noun \"Verkehr\" in the final sentence of \"The Judgment\". Literally, \"Verkehr\" means intercourse and, as in English, can have either a sexual or non-sexual meaning; in addition, it is used to mean transport or traffic. The sentence can be translated as: \"At that moment an unending stream of traffic crossed over the bridge\". What gives added weight to the obvious double meaning of 'Verkehr' is Kafka's confession to Brod that when he wrote that final line, he was thinking of \"a violent ejaculation\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36825828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36825828", "title": "Gold Museum of Peru and Arms of the World", "text": "Gold Museum of Peru and Arms of the World\n\nThe Gold Museum of Peru and Weapons of the World is a Peruvian museum, located in Lima.\n\nIn the 1960s, Miguel Mujica Gallo used his private collection, gathered throughout his life, to open the \"Gold Museum of Peru and Weapons of the World\", located in the district of Santiago de Surco. It is in a two-story building made of reinforced concrete and accessed through a vault-style entrance.\n\nThe museum was donated to the state of Perú by Gallo and is now administered by Foundation Miguel Mujica Gallo, which is currently directed by Victoria Mujica Diez Canseco.\n\nGallo's acquisition of more than seven thousand artifacts was inspired by an admiration for Peruvian history. He desired to leave a legacy to this country as homage to the Peruvian pre-Columbian cultures in its various manifestations, containing materials such as precious metals like gold, silver and some of platinum, multiple textiles, ceramics, mummies and other valuable objects.\n\nThe collection demonstrates what the Spanish found when they came to South America, resulting in fighting between the ancient Peruvians and the Spanish. The collection is valued at over $10 million. The works were found mostly in the Republican era and acquired at the time by They demonstrated advances in metallurgy, customs, beliefs and life.\n\nGold and silver are ubiquitous in the complex religious and magical symbolism of Peruvian cultures. For pre-Inca civilizations, these metals represented the sun-moon, day-night, male-female duality. In the Inca Empire, the sun god or Inti represented sovereignty on the divine plane and Mama Killa (\"mother moon\"), the moon goddess, was Inti's wife, mother of the sky. The Temple of the Sun is an order of priestesses.\n\nThe forms that these metals acquired indicated the seniority and power of those who used them and their importance for burials. The ancient Peruvians developed techniques unknown to Europeans at the time, such as adding color to other metal surfaces with gold or silver plating.\n\nFour pre-Incan cultures stood out at the highest level of goldsmithy. They are Vicus, Moche, Sican and Chimu that developed on the northern coast of Peru. The Inca Empire was richer in possession of metal objects in gold and silver and the quality and finesse of its finished than its predecessors.\n\nVictoria Mujica, referring to historical documents found in the Archive of the Indies, cites one that says: \n\nGallo also collected weapons from around the world. The oldest dated from the 13th century.\n\nTwenty thousand weapons of all times and countries are exhibited in the museum. This collection is one of the world's foremost, for its quantity, quality, superb condition and the famous original holders.\n\nThe collection also includes military uniforms, saddles, armor, spurs and other objects that define the early through time and characters of history for more than three thousand and three hundred years.\n\nIn the early 2000s, accusations arose that a vast majority of gold pieces in the museum were false. The BBC reported that \"The Consumer Defense Institute has examined 4,257 artifacts from the Peruvian Museum of Gold and concluded they were 'false without a shadow of a doubt'.\n\n"}
{"id": "40964245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40964245", "title": "Government Bullies", "text": "Government Bullies\n\nGovernment Bullies: How Everyday Americans are Being Harassed, Abused, and Imprisoned by the Feds is a book by United States Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky. The book contains anecdotes of difficulties people have had dealing with agencies of the US federal government.\n\nThe book was released in 2012, and is published by Center Street, a main publishing division of Hachette Book Group USA. The forward to the book was written by Paul's father, Ron Paul.\n\nIn his review of \"Government Bullies\" for \"The Washington Times\", William Murchison wrote that Paul \"never really ties things together with any artistry\" and that the book is \"more political barrage than academic rendering.\"\n\nJournalists discovered that \"Government Bullies\" contained passages that were copied from articles from the Heritage Foundation and the Cato Institute. Further investigation revealed another four instances of plagiarism from articles by Jonathan H. Adler, Pacific Legal Foundation attorney Timothy Sandefur, and an article from Forbes. While citations were listed in the footnotes, the material was presented without quotes or indentation. Book publisher Center Street indicated that future printings would include attributions.\n"}
{"id": "675868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=675868", "title": "Heritage streetcar", "text": "Heritage streetcar\n\nHeritage streetcars or heritage trams are a part of the efforts to preserve rail transit heritage. In addition to preserving street-running rail vehicles, heritage streetcar operations can include upkeep of historic rail infrastructure. Working heritage streetcars are closely related to the growing global heritage railway movement and form a part of the living history of rail transport.\n\nAs with modern streetcar systems, the vehicles are referred to as \"trams\" or \"tramcars\" in the United Kingdom, Australasia and certain other places (with \"tramway\" being the line or system), but as streetcars or trolleys in North America. The last two terms are often used interchangeably in the United States, with \"trolley\" being preferred in the eastern US and \"streetcar\" in Canada and the western US. In parts of the United States, internally powered buses made to resemble a streetcar are often referred to—inaccurately—as \"trolleys\". To avoid further confusion with trolley buses, the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) refers to them as \"trolley-replica buses\".\n\nMuseums, heritage tram line operators, and amateur enthusiasts can preserve original vintage vehicles or create replicas of historic vehicles to re-create or preserve streetcar technology of the past. Heritage vehicles that are kept fully functional can be used on heritage tramlines or for charter traffic.\n\nHeritage tram lines that offer scheduled service on a certain route and showcase historic aspects of streetcar systems are usually operated by heritage vehicles. Heritage tramlines that operate on a rail network that mainly serves the interest of modern urban mobility have difficulty in exhibiting historic tramway infrastructure, apart from the car itself. This kind of tramline is often operated mainly to attract tourists instead of providing urban access. Some technical aspects of historic tram infrastructure can prevent the use of a heritage line as an integral part of the public transport system. For example, heritage tramlines often lack handicapped access which is required by law in many countries. Heritage tramlines can be either newly installed lines (created in modern times, 1970s or later) or be surviving older tramlines that have retained use of historic trams for all or most of their scheduled service.\n\nRail tracks designated solely or mainly to heritage streetcar traffic offer best opportunities for preservation of historic streetcar scenes. Some heritage tramways use all-new construction while others make use of an existing, usually disused, freight railway, by installing overhead wires and passenger stops. In some cities, new heritage tramways have been installed in the city center, to attract tourists and shoppers. Proponents of such projects claim that using a simple, reliable form of transit from 50 or 100 years ago can bring history to life for 21st century users. In serving certain types of transport needs, heritage tramways can turn out to be more economical than their modern counterparts, often with installations that can be built at a fraction of the cost of a corresponding modern standard. However, there are trade-offs; among other things, heritage systems can offer slower speeds, less capacity and higher upkeep costs due to use of non-industry-standard technology.\n\nThe Remise Museum in Vienna, opened in 2014, covers the history of public transport in the city of Vienna and offers an extensive tram collection to visitors.\nThe Styrian municipality centre Graz has a tram museum since 1971 located in the depot of Mariatrost. Another heritage tram is operating in Styria between the railway station of Mariazell and the nearby Erlaufsee, mainly with Ex-Vienna streetcars. This line was recently electrified on longer sections and also extended towards the city center. In Innsbruck the city's trams are collected and renovated – together with other Tyrolean railway vehicles – by the association Tiroler MuseumsBahnen which has its museum in the old station of the Stubaitalbahn.\n\nIn Amsterdam in the Netherlands the Electrisch Museumtramlijn operates historic trams over a length of former railway line. The tram networks of Hague and Rotterdam have also their tram museums. The association Tramweg Stichting maintains and operates in every three cities its own vehicles, partly as collection of these museums. In Belgium there are 3 tram museums, one in Brussels – organizing several weekend rides to Tervueren and around the city – and other in Antwerpen. The 70 km-long Kusttram (the coastal line between Knokke and De Panne via Oostende) features also some vehicles of the once extensive interurban network stored in the depot of De Panne and Knokke operated by TTO.\nASVi run a museum in Thuin and an 8 km line with electric and diesel cars on a part of the once SNCV line 92 and on a part on the once SNCB line 109 after regauging to meter gauge.\n\nIn Prague the Czech Republic the Prague Integrated Transport operates Historical Tram Line No. 41 at weekends using historical tram vehicles and a week-long operating Nostalgic Tram Line No. 23 using old PCC based ČKD Tatra T3 tram vehicles.\n\nIn Budapest, Hungary, heritage public transport services, two vintage tram lines and a riverboat line, are operated from May to the end of September on weekends.\n\nIn Tallinn there are renovated retrotrams in public use since 2017.\n\nIn Helsinki, Finland, Oy Stadin Ratikat Ab offers charter tramrides with vintage cars and in summer months operates an in-street heritage tram line on the Helsinki tram network.\n\nIn France, the Deûle Valley tramway near Lille which runs along a track from Marquette-lez-Lille to Wambrechies features several tram vehicles dating back to the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nTurin, in the northwest of Italy, operates the historical route 7, a double way circular route around the town centre.\nTurin is the first town in Italy with tramway lines powered by historical streetcars.\nThe inauguration of the heritage tramway line was during the\ncelebrations of the 150th anniversary of national unity, in March 2011.\n\nIn the nearby metropolis of Milan, the continued, extensive use of the \"Series 1500 tram\" is an example of a heritage tramway which blends into everyday urban life to the extent that it is not regarded as one.\n\nIn Bergen the Bergens Elektriske Sporvei has operated a short heritage tramway since 1993.\n\nIn Oslo the Tramway Museum operates veteran trams on the tram network of Oslo on the first Sunday of every month.\n\nHeritage trams provide all of the service on some of the Lisbon tramway network in Portugal, and in Porto a long-closed section of tramway in the historic Batalha section of the town center was reopened in 2007 for use by historic trams. There are now three such heritage routes in Porto, as well as a tram museum. In Sintra, there is a seasonally operated heritage tramway.\n\nIn Saint-Petersburg on Vasilyevsky Island the former Vasileostrovsky tram depot, which closed in the 1990s after the city's extensive tram network was cut down due to increasing automobile traffic, was converted into the Museum of Electrical Transport. Apart from excursions to itself, the museum organizes museum fleet rides along downtown tracks (including some now otherwise unused for regular tram service) on a number of public festivals and some summer weekends. A heritage tram of the type that used to run from the inner city nearly to the nearby front line during the World War II siege of the city is installed as a war and tram memorial, not far from Avtovo metro station. A modern replica of a late-19th-century horsecar stands in front of Vasileostrovskaya metro station.\n\nIn Spain, a new heritage tramway was opened in A Coruña (La Coruña) in 1997 (now out of order). Tramvia Blau in Barcelona has been in operation since 1904 but still uses trams built in 1904–15, and thus has become a heritage line. Similarly, the tramway connecting Sóller with Puerto de Sóller, on the island of Majorca, is operated with vintage trams; thus, although opened in 1913, it is a heritage line.\n\nIn Malmö, Sweden, a technical museum operates an in-street heritage tram line in summer months. In Sweden's capital, Stockholm, a section of former route 7 was reopened in 1991 as a heritage tramway, using vintage cars.\n\nTwo separate heritage tramways operate in Istanbul, Turkey, one on the European side of the Bosporus and one on the Asian side. The former opened in 1991 between Tünel (funicular station) and Taksim metro station, and the latter in 2003 in the suburb of Kadıköy.\n\nA heritage tramline, opened in 2011, serves Bursa.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the majority of tram lines were lifted before the heritage movement began to flourish, and tracks and trams scrapped. Although trams are returning to British Cities, they are modern transportation systems (also known as light rail), not heritage operations. There are, however, three notable heritage tram operations in the UK.\n\nThe National Tramway Museum at Crich near Matlock, is located in an old limestone quarry in Derbyshire, and has a collection of preserved trams. Strictly speaking, this would be considered a tramway museum with an operating tram line, rather than being a heritage tramway. Among the heritage railways on the Isle of Man, at least the Manx Electric Railway qualifies as a heritage tramway as well. Otherwise, the Blackpool tramway is the only surviving first-generation urban tram system in the UK and provides a service running along the town's promenade and also as far as Fleetwood using both historic and modern trams. There is also a modern \"Heritage Tramway\" in Birkenhead, Merseyside.\nPlaces in Britain where preserved trams operate:\n\nEngland\nIsle of Man\nScotland\nWales\n\nHeritage streetcar lines are operating in over 20 U.S. cities, and are in planning or construction stages in others. Several new heritage streetcar lines have been opened since the 1970s; some are stand-alone lines while others make use of a section of a modern light rail system.\nHeritage streetcar systems operating in Little Rock, Arkansas; Memphis, Tennessee; Dallas, Texas; New Orleans, Louisiana; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (SEPTA route 15) and Tampa, Florida are among the larger examples. A heritage line operates in Charlotte, North Carolina and will become a part of the city's new transit system. Another such line, called The Silver Line, operates in San Diego. The San Francisco Municipal Railway, or Muni, runs exclusively historic trolleys on its heavily used F Market & Wharves line, serving Market Street and the tourist areas along the Embarcadero, including Fisherman's Wharf. Boston's Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority runs exclusively PCC streetcars on its Ashmont-Mattapan High Speed Line, part of that authority's Red Line. The historic rolling stock is retained because doing so cost less than would a full rebuild of the line to accommodate either a heavy rail line (like the rest of the Red Line or the Blue or Orange Lines) or a modern light rail line (like the Green Line). It is also unique in that it used almost exclusively by commuters and is not particularly popular with tourists (and thus may not really be a true heritage system, despite the historic rolling stock).\n\nDallas has the McKinney Avenue Transit Authority. Denver has the Platte Valley Trolley, a heritage line recalling the open-sided streetcars of the early 20th century. Old Pueblo Trolley is a volunteer-run heritage line in Tucson, Arizona; its popularity inspired, in large part, a modern streetcar system for Tucson currently in the final planning stages, which would incorporate the heritage line. The VTA in San Jose, California also maintains a heritage trolley fleet, for occasional use on the downtown portion of a new light rail system opened in 1988. Other cities with heritage streetcar lines include Galveston, Texas; Kenosha, Wisconsin and San Pedro, California (home of the port of Los Angeles). The National Park Service operates a system in Lowell, Massachusetts.\n\nMost heritage streetcar lines use overhead trolley wires to power the cars, as was the case with the vast majority of original streetcar lines. However, on the Galveston Island Trolley heritage line, which opened in 1988, using modern-day replicas of vintage trolleys, the cars were powered by an on-board diesel engine, as local authorities were concerned that overhead wires would be too susceptible to damage from hurricanes. In spite of that precaution, damage in 2008 from Hurricane Ike was heavy enough to put the line out of service indefinitely, and as of 2014 it has yet to reopen.\n\nAnother heritage line lacking trolley wires is Savannah, Georgia's River Street Streetcar line, which opened in February 2009. It is the first line to use a diesel/electric streetcar whose built-in electricity generator is powered by biodiesel. In El Reno, Oklahoma, the \"Heritage Express Trolley\" connects Heritage Park with downtown, using a single streetcar that has been equipped with a propane-powered on-board generator. The car formerly operated on SEPTA's Norristown High Speed Line, where third-rail current collection is used. The El Reno line is single-track and long.\n\nIn Portland, Oregon, replica-vintage cars provided a heritage streetcar service, named Portland Vintage Trolley, along a section of that city's 1986-operated light rail line from 1991 to 2014. Elsewhere in Portland, the Willamette Shore Trolley is a seasonal, volunteer-operated excursion service on a former freight railroad line, to Lake Oswego, Oregon. This operation uses a diesel-powered generator on a trailer towed or pushed by the streetcar, as the line lacks trolley wires. Similarly, the Astoria Riverfront Trolley in Astoria, Oregon, is a seasonal heritage-trolley service along a section of former freight railroad and using a diesel-powered generator on a trailer to provide electricity to the streetcar.\n\nOther seasonal or weekends-only heritage streetcar lines operate in Yakima, Washington (Yakima Electric Railway Museum); Fort Collins, Colorado; and Fort Smith, Arkansas. The Fort Collins and Fort Smith lines are both operated by an original (as opposed to replica) Birney-type streetcar, and in both cases the individual car in use is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. In Philadelphia, the Penn's Landing Trolley operated seasonal and weekend service as a volunteer operation with former P&W equipment between September 1982 and December 17, 1995 on the Philadelphia Belt Line track on Columbus Boulevard in the historic Penn's Landing district.\n\nOver 50 years later, the revival of extended streetcar operations in New Orleans is credited by many to the worldwide fame gained by its streetcars built by the Perley A. Thomas Car Works in 1922–23. These cars were operating on the system's Desire route made famous by Tennessee Williams' \"A Streetcar Named Desire\". Some Perley Thomas cars were maintained in continuous service on the St. Charles Avenue Streetcar line until Hurricane Katrina caused major damage to the right-of-way in 2005. The historic streetcars suffered only minor damage and several have been transferred to serve on the recently rebuilt Canal Street line while the St. Charles line is being repaired. New Orleans' St. Charles streetcar line is a National Historic Landmark. Pre-Katrina, New Orleans had plans to reconstruct the Desire line along its original route down St. Claude Avenue.\n\nIn San Francisco, parts of the cable car and Muni streetcar system (specifically the above-mentioned F Market & Wharves line) are heritage lines, although they are also functioning parts of the city's transit system. The cable cars are a National Historic Landmark and are rare examples of vehicles with this distinction. Located east of San Francisco is one of several museums in the U.S. that restore and operate vintage streetcars and interurbans, the Western Railway Museum.\n\nHeritage streetcar lines:\nMuseums with operational heritage streetcar lines:\nTransit systems operating heritage streetcars:\n\nIn Buenos Aires, Argentina, a heritage tram line was inaugurated In 1980 in the Caballito neighbourhood on existing vintage street tracks. Presently a proposal for a heritage tram in colonial San Telmo is under discussion.\nArgentina's capital also hosts the \"La Brugeoise cars\", the Buenos Aires Metro (\"Subte\") Line A rolling stock, since its inauguration in 1913. They were built by Belgian railway rolling stock manufacturer \"La Brugeoise, et Nicaise, et Delcuve\" between 1911 and 1919 for the Anglo-Argentine Tramways Company's (\"Compañía de Tranvías Anglo-Argentina\", CTAA in Spanish) first metro line. They were originally designed to run both as metro and tramway cars, but they were refurbished in 1927 for underground use only. They are the oldest metro rolling stock in commercial service in the world as well as a tourist attraction and part of Buenos Aires cultural heritage. The A line also contains a vintage station, \"Perú\". They have been in continuous use for a whole century since 1913 to January 2013 when they were replaced by new coaches, with an average of about 300 thousand daily passengers, up from the 170,000 who traveled on them on their first day. Some of the coaches had already been preserved for touristic purposes, and now the rest of the fleet is under careful restoration and is intended to render service on weekends and holidays.\n\nAfter briefly operating a short heritage line along Embaré Beach in the mid-1980s, Santos, Brazil, in 2000 opened a new heritage tramway in the historic Valongo district, using a car built in 1911 with an peculiar rail gauge of . The line is being extended, and additional trams have been added. A heritage tramway was opened in Belém, Brazil, in 2005.\n\nA heritage tramway has operated in Campinas, Brazil's, Parque Portugal since 1972.\n\nA heritage tramway was opened in Iquique, Chile, in 2004.\n\nA heritage tramway was opened in Lima, Peru, in 1997.\n\nThe first heritage tramway in Latin America opened in Montevideo, Uruguay, in 1967, using a restored vintage tram on a reopened section of former tram line. It closed in 1974.\n\n Heritage trams also operate in Changchun, Jilin and Dalian, Liaoning.\n\nThe Hong Kong Tramways on Hong Kong Island are considered part of the heritage of Hong Kong.\n\nThere has been a heritage tramway in Kimberley, Northern Cape, since 1985.\n\nHeritage tramways exist in Bendigo, Sydney, Brisbane and Ballarat.\n\nA new city-center heritage tramway was opened in Christchurch in 1995. Auckland also has a short heritage line.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "607759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607759", "title": "Hocus pocus (magic)", "text": "Hocus pocus (magic)\n\nHocus pocus is a generic term that may be derived from an ancient language and is currently used by stage magicians, usually the magic words spoken when bringing about some sort of change. It was once a common term for a magician, juggler, or other similar entertainers.\n\nThe earliest known English-language work on magic, or what was then known as \"legerdemain\" (sleight of hand), was published anonymously in 1635 under the title \"Hocus Pocus Junior: The Anatomie of Legerdemain\". Further research suggests that \"Hocus Pocus\" was the stage name of a well known magician of the era. This may be William Vincent, who is recorded as having been granted a license to perform magic in England in 1619. Whether he was the author of the book is unknown.\n\nThe origins of the term remain obscure. The most popular conjecture is that it is a garbled Latin religious phrase or some form of ‘dog’ Latin. Some have associated it with similar-sounding fictional, mythical, or legendary names. Others dismiss it as merely a combination of nonsense words.\n\nIn some Slavic languages, \"pokus\" means an \"attempt\" or an \"experiment\", as for example in Czech or Slovak language. The word is derived from the Protoslavic word \"kusiti\", which is itself derived from Gothic \"kausajn\" meaning \"to try\", \"to attempt\".\nThis may indicate that the wording belongs to the alchemy kitchen and court of Rudolf II, Holy Roman Emperor (1552 – 1612). Also, \"hocus\" may mean \"to cheat\" in Latin or a distorted form of the word \"hoc\", \"this\". Combination of the two words may give a sense, especially both meanings together \"this attempt/experiment\" and \"cheated attempt/experiment\".\n\nAccording to the Oxford English Dictionary the term originates from \"hax pax max Deus adimax\", a pseudo-Latin phrase used as a magical formula by conjurors.\n\nSome believe it originates from a corruption or parody of the Catholic liturgy of the Eucharist, which contains the phrase “\"Hoc est enim corpus meum\"”, meaning \"This is my body\". This explanation goes back to speculations by the Anglican prelate John Tillotson, who wrote in 1694:\n\nThis claim is substantiated by the fact that in the Netherlands, the words \"Hocus pocus\" are usually accompanied by the additional words \"pilatus pas\", and this is said to be based on a post-Reformation parody of the traditional Catholic rite of transubstantiation during Mass, being a Dutch corruption of the Latin words \"\"Hoc est corpus meum\" and the credo, which reads in part, \"sub Pontio Pilato passus et sepultus est\"\", meaning \"under Pontius Pilate he suffered and was buried\". In a similar way the phrase is in Scandinavia usually accompanied by \"filiokus\", a corruption of the term filioque, from the Latin version of the Nicene Creed, meaning “\"and from the Son\"”. The variant spelling \"filipokus\" is common in Russia, a predominantly Eastern Orthodox nation, as well as certain other post-Soviet states. Additionally, the word for \"stage trick\" in Russian, \"fokus\", is derived from \"hocus pocus\".\n\nOthers believe that it is an appeal to the folkloric Norse magician Ochus Bochus:\n\nAs an alternative to other theories, it may simply be pseudo-Latin with no meaning, made up to impress people:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36864214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36864214", "title": "How to Be a Jewish Mother", "text": "How to Be a Jewish Mother\n\nHow to Be a Jewish Mother is a 1964 Jewish humor book by American humorist Dan Greenburg which was the best selling non-fiction book in the United States in 1965, with 270,000 copies sold. The book was first published by Price Stern Sloan under publisher Larry Sloan.\n\nThe book was adapted into a play starring Molly Picon and Godfrey Cambridge which had a brief run on Broadway at the Hudson Theater from December 1967 through January 1968. \n\nThe play was profiled in the William Goldman book \"\".\n\nA 1983 French adaptation, \"Comment devenir une mère juive en 10 leçons\", met with long-running success. Gertrude Berg also released a best-selling comedy album from the book in 1965.\n\nIt was re-issued as a mass market paperback in 1991 (, ).\n\n"}
{"id": "56840834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56840834", "title": "I'm a Good Ol' Rebel", "text": "I'm a Good Ol' Rebel\n\n\"I'm a Good Ol' Rebel\", also called \"The Good Old Rebel\", is a pro-Confederate folk song and rebel song commonly attributed to Major James Innes Randolph. It was initially created by Randolph as a poem before evolving into an oral folk song and was only published in definitive written form in 1914.\nAfter the Confederacy's loss to the U.S. in the American Civil War, \"I'm a Good Ol' Rebel\" was created as a poem by former Confederate major James Innes Randolph in the 1860s. Its music was based upon the Minstrel song \"Joe Bowers (song)\". It is not known who initially created the music, with a claim in 1864 attributing it to \"J.R.T.\" and an 1866 sheet music copy ironically dedicating it to Thad Stevens.\n\n\"I'm a Good Ol' Rebel\" was first published as a poem locally in Maryland in 1898 but was published as a song nationwide in the April 4, 1914 edition of \"Collier's Weekly\". The song is anti-American in tone, expressing hatred towards the U.S. and its national symbols such as the U.S. Constitution and U.S. Declaration of Independence. It reflected a view held by some ex-Confederates who were reluctant to accept Reconstruction with the United States and an expression of the bitterness and anger they felt after the Confederacy had lost the American Civil War to the U.S. However, it is speculated that the song did not reflect Randolph's personal views and was intended \"... to illustrate the irreconcilable spirit of the illiterate in some sections\", as it had been sung and passed through oral tradition throughout Southern bars.\n\nThe published version initially contained only four verses, but individual performers have added their own verses to reflect their own opinions on the United States. In 1991, a version was released on the \"Songs of the Civil War\" album performed by Hoyt Axton.\n\nThe song became known outside the United States. The American-born Consuelo Montagu, Duchess of Manchester, once performed the song uncensored for the future King Edward VII when he was Prince of Wales in London. Upon hearing the song, he later requested a repeat performance of \"...that fine American song with the cuss words in it.\" In 2011, the band Junto released a parody of the song as an anti-Barack Obama song titled \"I'm A Good Ole American\".\n"}
{"id": "730821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=730821", "title": "Imagined community", "text": "Imagined community\n\nAn imagined community is a concept developed by Benedict Anderson in his 1983 book \"Imagined Communities\", to analyze nationalism. Anderson depicts a nation as a socially constructed community, imagined by the people who perceive themselves as part of that group.\n\nThe media also creates imagined communities, through usually targeting a mass audience or generalizing and addressing citizens as the public. Another way that the media can create imagined communities is through the use of images. The media can perpetuate stereotypes through certain images and vernacular. By showing certain images, the audience will choose which image they relate to the most, furthering the relationship to that imagined community.\n\nAccording to Anderson, creation of imagined communities became possible because of \"print capitalism\". Capitalist entrepreneurs printed their books and media in the vernacular (instead of exclusive script languages, such as Latin) in order to maximize circulation. As a result, readers speaking various local dialects became able to understand each other, and a common discourse emerged. Anderson argued that the first European nation-states were thus formed around their \"national print-languages.\"\n\nAccording to Anderson's theory of imagined communities, the main causes of nationalism are the declining importance of privileged access to particular script languages (such as Latin) because of mass vernacular literacy; the movement to abolish the ideas of rule by divine right and hereditary monarchy; and the emergence of printing press capitalism (\"the convergence of capitalism and print technology... standardization of national calendars, clocks and language was embodied in books and the publication of daily newspapers\")—all phenomena occurring with the start of the Industrial Revolution.\n\nWhile attempting to define nationalism, Anderson identifies three paradoxes:\n\n\"(1) The objective modernity of nations to the historians' eyes vs. their subjective antiquity in the eyes of nationalists. (2) The formal universality of nationality as a socio-cultural concept [and] (3) the 'political' power of such nationalisms vs. their philosophical poverty and even incoherence.\"\n\nAnderson talks of Unknown Soldier tombs as an example of nationalism. The tombs of Unknown Soldiers are either empty or hold unidentified remains, but each nation with these kinds of memorials claim these soldiers as their own. No matter what the actual origin of the Unknown Soldier is, these nations have placed them within their own imagined community.\n\nHe defined a nation as \"an imagined political community\". As Anderson puts it, a nation \"is imagined because the members of even the smallest nation will never know most of their fellow-members, meet them, or even hear of them, yet in the minds of each lives the image of their communion\". Members of the community probably will never know each of the other members face to face; however, they may have similar interests or identify as part of the same nation. Members hold in their minds a mental image of their affinity: for example, the nationhood felt with other members of your nation when your \"imagined community\" participates in a larger event such as the Olympic Games.\n\nFinally, a nation is a community because,\n\nBenedict Anderson arrived at his theory because he felt that neither Marxist nor liberal theory adequately explained nationalism.\n\nAnderson falls into the \"historicist\" or \"modernist\" school of nationalism along with Ernest Gellner and Eric Hobsbawm in that he posits that nations and nationalism are products of modernity and have been created as means to political and economic ends. This school stands in opposition to the primordialists, who believe that nations, if not nationalism, have existed since early human history. Imagined communities can be seen as a form of social constructionism on a par with Edward Said's concept of imagined geographies.\n\nIn contrast to Gellner and Hobsbawm, Anderson is not hostile to the idea of nationalism nor does he think that nationalism is obsolete in a globalizing world. Anderson values the utopian element in nationalism.\n\nAccording to Harald Bauder, the concept of imagined communities remains highly relevant in a contemporary context of how nation-states frame and formulate their identities in relation to domestic and foreign policy, such as policies towards immigrants and migration. According to Euan Hague, \"Anderson's concept of nations being 'imagined communities' has become standard within books reviewing geographical thought\".\n\nEven though the term was coined to specifically describe nationalism, it is now used more broadly, almost blurring it with community of interest. For instance, it can be used to refer to a community based on sexual orientation, or awareness of global risk factors.\n\n"}
{"id": "33883749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33883749", "title": "Karel Hubáček", "text": "Karel Hubáček\n\nKarel Hubáček (; 23 February 1924 – 25 November 2011) was a Czech architect who designed the Ještěd Tower and hotel atop the Ještěd mountain near Liberec.\n\nHubáček's best known work was the Ještěd Tower, which was constructed between 1966 and 1973. In 1969, the Ještěd Tower received the Perret Prize from the International Union of Architects. In 2000, Czech architects named Hubáček's tower most successful domestic architectural work of the 20th Century.\n\nIn addition to the Ještěd Tower, Hubáček designed buildings throughout the Czech Republic. Czech architects named Hubáček the fourth most influential Czech architect of all time. He was the only living architect to place in the top ten in the same survey.\n\nHubáček was born in Prague, Czechoslovakia, on 23 February 1924. He died in the Czech Republic on 25 November 2011, at the age of 87.\n"}
{"id": "18077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18077", "title": "Lexicon", "text": "Lexicon\n\nA lexicon, word-hoard, wordbook, or word-stock is the vocabulary of a person, language, or branch of knowledge (such as nautical or medical). In linguistics, a lexicon is a language's inventory of lexemes. The word \"lexicon\" derives from the Greek (\"lexicon\"), neuter of (\"lexikos\") meaning \"of or for words.\"\n\nLinguistic theories generally regard human languages as consisting of two parts: a lexicon, essentially a catalogue of a language's words (its wordstock); and a grammar, a system of rules which allow for the combination of those words into meaningful sentences. The lexicon is also thought to include bound morphemes, which cannot stand alone as words (such as most affixes). In some analyses, compound words and certain classes of idiomatic expressions and other collocations are also considered to be part of the lexicon. Dictionaries represent attempts at listing, in alphabetical order, the lexicon of a given language; usually, however, bound morphemes are not included.\n\nItems in the lexicon are called lexemes, or lexical items, or word forms. Lexemes are not atomic elements but contain both phonological and morphological components. When describing the lexicon, a reductionist approach is used, trying to remain general while using a minimal description. To describe the size of a lexicon, lexemes are grouped into lemmas. A lemma is a group of lexemes generated by inflectional morphology. Lemmas are represented in dictionaries by headwords which list the citation forms and any irregular forms, since these must be learned to use the words correctly. Lexemes derived from a word by derivational morphology are considered new lemmas. The lexicon is also organized according to open and closed categories. Closed categories, such as determiners or pronouns, are rarely given new lexemes; their function is primarily syntactic. Open categories, such as nouns and verbs, have highly active generation mechanisms and their lexemes are more semantic in nature.\n\nA central role of the lexicon is the documenting of established \"lexical norms and conventions\". Lexicalization is the process in which new words, having gained widespread usage, enter the lexicon. Since lexicalization may modify lexemes phonologically and morphologically, it is possible that a single etymological source may be inserted into a single lexicon in two or more forms. These pairs, called a doublet, are often close semantically. Two examples are \"aptitude\" versus \"attitude\" and \"employ\" versus \"imply\".\n\nThe mechanisms, not mutually exclusive, are:\n\nNeologisms are new lexeme candidates which, if they gain wide usage over time, become part of a language's lexicon. Neologisms are often introduced by children who produce erroneous forms by mistake. Another common source is slang and activities such as advertising and branding.\n\nThere are two types of borrowings (neologisms based on external sources) that retain the sound of the source language material:\n\nThe following are examples of external lexical expansion using the source language lexical item as the basic material for the neologization, listed in decreasing order of phonetic resemblance to the original lexical item (in the source language):\n\nThe following are examples of simultaneous external and internal lexical expansion using target language lexical items as the basic material for the neologization but still resembling the sound of the lexical item in the source language:\n\nAnother mechanism involves generative devices that combine morphemes according to a language's rules. For example, the suffix \"-able\" is usually only added to transitive verbs, as in \"readable\" but not \"cryable\".\n\nA compound word is a lexeme composed of several established lexemes, whose semantics is not the sum of that of their constituents. They can be interpreted through analogy, common sense and, most commonly, context. Compound words can have simple or complex morphological structures. Usually only the head requires inflection for agreement. Compounding may result in lexemes of unwieldy proportion. This is compensated by mechanisms that reduce the length of words. A similar phenomenon has been recently shown to feature in social media also where hashtags compound to form longer-sized hashtags that are at times more popular than the individual constituent hashtags forming the compound. Compounding is the most common of word formation strategies cross-linguistically. \n\nComparative historical linguistics studies the evolutions languages and takes a diachronic view of the lexicon. The evolution of lexicons in different languages occurs through parallel mechanism. Over time historical forces work to shape the lexicon, making it simpler to acquire and often creating an illusion of great regularity in language.\n\nThe term \"lexicon\" is generally used in the context of single language. Therefore, multi-lingual speakers are generally thought to have multiple lexicons. Speakers of language variants (Brazilian Portuguese and European Portuguese, for example) may be considered to possess a single lexicon. Thus a \"cash dispenser\" (British English) as well as an automatic teller machine or ATM in American English would be understood by both American and British speakers, despite each group using different dialects.\n\nWhen linguists study a lexicon, they consider such things as what constitutes a word; the word/concept relationship; lexical access and lexical access failure; how a word's phonology, syntax, and meaning intersect; the morphology-word relationship; vocabulary structure within a given language; language use (pragmatics); language acquisition; the history and evolution of words (etymology); and the relationships between words, often studied within philosophy of language.\n\nVarious models of how lexicons are organized and how words are retrieved have been proposed in psycholinguistics, neurolinguistics and computational linguistics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49418668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49418668", "title": "List of Radical Thinkers releases", "text": "List of Radical Thinkers releases\n\nRadical Thinkers is a series of books released through Verso Books. The series was first released in October 2005. The series shifted towards themes in set 9 and began to release more frequently with fewer titles in each set. In 2010, \"Minima Moralia\", \"For Marx\", \"Aesthetics and Politics\", and \"Culture and Materialism\" were reprinted in hardback under the Radical Thinkers Classics designation as part of Verso's 40th anniversary celebration.\n\n"}
{"id": "11099186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11099186", "title": "List of railway museums", "text": "List of railway museums\n\nA railway museum is a museum that explores the history of all aspects of rail related transportation, including: locomotives (steam, diesel, and electric), railway cars, trams, and railway signalling equipment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "849750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849750", "title": "List of war crimes", "text": "List of war crimes\n\nThis article lists and summarises the war crimes committed since the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 and the crimes against humanity and crimes against peace that have been committed since these crimes were first defined in the Rome Statute.\n\nSince many war crimes are not ultimately prosecuted (due to lack of political will, lack of effective procedures, or other practical and political reasons), historians and lawyers will often make a serious case that war crimes occurred, even if there was no formal investigations or prosecution of the alleged crimes or an investigation cleared the alleged perpetrators.\n\nWar crimes under international law were firmly established by international trials such as the Nuremberg Trials and the Tokyo Trials, in which Austrian, German and Japanese leaders were prosecuted for war crimes committed during World War II.\n\nWorld War I was the first major international conflict to take place following the codification of war crimes at the Hague Convention of 1907, including derived war crimes, such as the use of poisons as weapons, as well as crimes against humanity, and derivative crimes against humanity, such as torture, and genocide. Before, the Second Boer War took place after the Hague Convention of 1899. The Second Boer War (1899 until 1902) is known for the first concentration camps (1900 until 1902) for civilians in the 20th century.\n\n\n\nAt least 50,000 people were executed during the Spanish Civil War. In his updated history of the Spanish Civil War, Antony Beevor writes, \"Franco's ensuing 'white terror' claimed 200,000 lives. The 'red terror' had already killed 38,000.\" Julius Ruiz concludes that \"although the figures remain disputed, a minimum of 37,843 executions were carried out in the Republican zone with a maximum of 150,000 executions (including 50,000 after the war) in Nationalist Spain.\"\n\nCésar Vidal puts the number of Republican victims at 110,965. In 2008 a Spanish judge, Socialist Baltasar Garzón, opened an investigation into the executions and disappearances of 114,266 people between 17 July 1936 and December 1951. Among the murders and executions investigated was that of poet and dramatist Federico García Lorca.\n\nThe Axis Powers (particularly Germany and Japan) were some of the most systematic perpetrators of war crimes in modern history. Contributing factors included Nazi race theory, a desire for \"living space\" that justified the eradication of native populations, and militaristic indoctrination that encouraged the terrorization of conquered peoples and prisoners of war. The Holocaust, the German attack on the Soviet Union and occupation of much of Europe, the Japanese occupation of Manchuria and the Philippines and attack on China all contributed to well over half of the civilian deaths in World War II and the conflicts that led up to the war. Even before post-war revelations of atrocities, both militaries were notorious for their brutal treatment of captured combatants.\n\nAccording to the Nuremberg Trials, there were four major war crimes that were alleged against German military (and Waffen-SS and NSDAP) men and officers, each with individual events that made up the major charges.\n\n1. Participation in a common plan of conspiracy for the accomplishment of crimes against peace\n\n2. Planning, initiating and waging wars of aggression and other crimes against peace\n\n3. War Crimes\nAtrocities against enemy combatants or conventional crimes committed by military units (see War crimes of the Wehrmacht), and include:\n\n4. Crimes against Humanity\nCrimes committed well away from the lines of battle and unconnected in any way to military activity, distinct from war crimes\nOther crimes against humanity included:\n\nAt least 10 million, and perhaps over 20 million perished directly and indirectly due to the commission of crimes against humanity and war crimes by the Nazi regime, of which the Holocaust lives on in particular infamy, for its particularly cruel nature and scope, and the industrialised nature of the genocide of Jewish citizens of states invaded or controlled by the Nazi regime. At least 5.9 million Jews were murdered by the Nazis, or 66 to 78% of Europe's Jewish population, although a complete count may never be known. Though much of Continental Europe suffered under the Nazi occupation, Poland, in particular, was the state most devastated by these crimes, with 90% of its Jews as well as many ethnic Poles slaughtered by the Nazis and their Ukrainian affiliates. After the war, from 1945–49, the Nazi regime was put on trial in two tribunals in Nuremberg, Germany by the victorious Allied powers.\n\nThe first tribunal indicted 24 major Nazi war criminals, and resulted in 19 convictions (of which 12 led to death sentences) and 3 acquittals, 2 of the accused died before a verdict was rendered, at least one of which by killing himself with cyanide. The second tribunal indicted 185 members of the military, economic, and political leadership of Nazi Germany, of which 142 were convicted and 35 were acquitted. In subsequent decades, approximately 20 additional war criminals who escaped capture in the immediate aftermath of World War II were tried in West Germany and Israel. In Germany and many other European nations, the Nazi Party and denial of the Holocaust is outlawed.\n\n\n\nThis section includes war crimes from 7 December 1941 when the United States was attacked by Japan and entered World War II. For war crimes before this date which took place during the Second Sino-Japanese War, please see the section above which is titled .\nChetnik ideology revolved around the notion of a Greater Serbia within the borders of Yugoslavia, to be created out of all territories in which Serbs were found, even if the numbers were small. A directive dated 20 December 1941, addressed to newly appointed commanders in Montenegro, Major Đorđije Lašić and Captain Pavle Đurišić, outlined, among other things, the cleansing of all non-Serb elements in order to create a Greater Serbia:\n\nThe Chetniks systemically massacred Muslims in villages that they captured. In late autumn of 1941 the Italians handed over the towns of Višegrad, Goražde, Foča and the surrounding areas, in south-east Bosnia to the Chetniks to run as a puppet administration and NDH forces were compelled by the Italians to withdraw from there. After the Chetniks gained control of Goražde on 29 November 1941, they began a massacre of Home Guard prisoners and NDH officials that became a systematic massacre of the local Muslim civilian population.\n\nSeveral hundred Muslims were murdered and their bodies were left hanging in the town or thrown into the Drina river. On 5 December 1941, the Chetniks received the town of Foča from the Italians and proceeded to massacre around 500 Muslims. Additional massacres against the Muslims in the area of Foča took place in August 1942. In total, more than 2000 people were killed in Foča.\n\nIn early January, Chetniks entered Srebrenica and killed around 1000 Muslim civilians there and in nearby villages. Around the same time the Chetniks made their way to Višegrad where deaths were reportedly in the thousands. Massacres continued in the following months in the region. In the village of Žepa alone about three hundred were killed in late 1941. In early January, Chetniks massacred fifty-four Muslims in Čelebić and burned down the village. On 3 March, Chetniks burned forty-two Muslim villagers to death in Drakan.\n\nIn early January 1943 and again in early February, Montenegrin Chetnik units were ordered to carry out \"cleansing actions\" against Muslims, first in the Bijelo Polje county in Sandžak and then in February in the Čajniče county and part of Foča county in southeastern Bosnia, and in part of the Pljevlja county in Sandžak.\n\nPavle Đurišić, the officer in charge of these operations, reported to Mihailović, Chief of Staff of the Supreme Command, that on 10 January 1943: \"thirty-three Muslim villages had been burned down, and 400 Muslim fighters (members of the Muslim self-protection militia supported by the Italians) and about 1,000 women and children had been killed, as against 14 Chetnik dead and 26 wounded\".\n\nIn another report sent by Đurišić dated 13 February 1943, he reported that: \"Chetniks killed about 1,200 Muslim fighters and about 8,000 old people, women, and children; Chetnik losses in the action were 22 killed and 32 wounded\". He added that \"during the operation the total destruction of the Muslim inhabitants was carried out regardless of sex and age\". The total number of deaths caused by the anti-Muslim operations between January and February 1943 is estimated at 10,000. The casualty rate would have been higher had a great number of Muslims not already fled the area, most to Sarajevo, when the February action began. According to a statement from the Chetnik Supreme Command from 24 February 1943, these were countermeasures taken against Muslim aggressive activities; however, all circumstances show that these massacres were committed in accordance with implementing the directive of 20 December 1941.\n\nActions against the Croats were of a smaller scale but comparable in action. In early October 1942 in the village of Gata, where an estimated 100 people were killed and many homes burnt in reprisal taken for the destruction of roads in the area carried out on the Italians' account. That same month, formations under the command of Petar Baćović and Dobroslav Jevđević, who were participating in the Italian Operation Alfa in the area of Prozor, massacred over 500 Croats and Muslims and burnt numerous villages. Baćović noted that \"Our Chetniks killed all men 15 years of age or older. ... Seventeen villages were burned to the ground.\" Mario Roatta, commander of the Italian Second Army, objected to these \"massive slaughters\" of noncombatant civilians and threatened to halt Italian aid to the Chetniks if they did not end.\n\nNumerous concentration camps were built in Independent State of Croatia, most notably Jasenovac, the largest, where around 100,000 Serbs, Gypsies (Roma), Jews, as well as a number of Croatian political dissidents, died, mostly from torture and starvation. It was established by the Ustaša regime of the Independent State of Croatia in August 1941 and not dismantled until April 1945, shortly before the end of the war. Other concentration camps were in Gospić, Rab, Đakovo, Jastrebarsko, and Lepoglava.\n\nAccording to the Simon Wiesenthal Center (citing the \"Encyclopedia of the Holocaust\"), \"Ustasa terrorists killed 500,000 Serbs, expelled 250,000 and forced 250,000 to convert to Roman Catholicism. They murdered thousands of Jews and Gypsies.\"\n\nJasenovac was a complex of five subcamps and three smaller camps spread out over , in relatively close proximity to each other, on the bank of the Sava river. Most of the camp was at Jasenovac, about southeast of Zagreb. The complex also included large grounds at Donja Gradina directly across the Sava River, a camp for children at Jastrebarsko to the northwest, and a women's camp in Stara Gradiška to the southeast.\n\nAn escape attempt on 22 April 1945 by 600 male inmates failed and only 84 male prisoners escaped successfully. The remainder and about 400 other prisoners were then murdered by Ustasa guards, despite the fact that they knew the war was ending with Germany's capitulation. All the female inmates from the women's camp (more than 700) had been massacred by the guards the previous day. The guards then destroyed the camp and everything associated with it was burned to the ground.\n\nAnte Pavelić, leader of the Ustasha, fled to Argentina and Spain which gave him protection, and was never extradited to stand trial for his war crimes. Pavelić died on 28 December 1959 at the Hospital Alemán in Madrid, where the Roman Catholic church had helped him to gain asylum, at the age of 70 from gunshot wounds sustained in an earlier assassination attempt by Montenegrin Blagoje Jovović.\n\nThe Ukrainian OUN-B group, along with their military force – Ukrainian Insurgent Army(UPA) – are responsible for a genocide on the Polish population in Volhynia and Eastern Galicia. Starting in March 1943, with its peak in the summer 1943, as many as 130,000 people (according to Ewa Siemaszko) were murdered, mostly women, children and elderly. Although the main target were Poles, many Jews, Czechs and those Ukrainians unwilling to participate in the crimes, were massacred as well. Lacking good armament and ammunition, UPA members commonly used tools such as axes and pitchforks for the slaughter. As a result of these massacres, almost the entire non-Ukrainian population of Volhynia was either killed or forced to flee.\n\nUPA commanders responsible for the genocide:\n\nThe French Union's struggle against the independence movement backed by the Soviet Union and China claimed 500,000 to 1.5 million Vietnamese lives from 1945 to 1954. In the Haiphong massacre of 1946, about 6,000 Vietnamese were killed by naval artillery. The French employed electric shock treatment during interrogations of the Vietnamese, and nearly 10,000 Vietnamese perished in French concentration camps.\n\nThe French repressed the independence movement with killings and village burnings. Up to 90,000 local residents died in the fighting, along with about 800 French and other Europeans.\n\nSeveral massacres were committed during this war which could be described as war crimes. Nearly 15,000 people, mostly combatants and militants, were killed during the war, including 6,000 Jews and about 8,000 Arabs.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe insurgency began in 1945 and was revived in 1954, winning independence in the early 1960s. The French army killed thousands of Algerians in the first round of fighting in 1945. After the Algerian independence movement formed a National Liberation Front (FLN) in 1954, the French Minister of the Interior joined the Minister of National Defense in 1955 in ordering that every rebel carrying a weapon, suspected of doing so, or suspected of fleeing, must be shot. French troops executed civilians from nearby villages when rebel attacks occurred, tortured both rebels and civilians, and interned Arabs in camps, where forced labor was required of some of them. 2,000,000 Algerians were displaced or forcibly resettled during the war. French sources estimated that 70,000 Muslim civilians were killed, or abducted and presumed killed, by the FLN during the war. The FLN also killed 30,000 to 150,000 in people in post-war reprisals.\n\nDuring the war 95 U.S. Army personnel and 27 U.S. Marine Corps personnel were convicted by court-martial of the murder or manslaughter of Vietnamese.\n\n\n\n\nIt is estimated that Bangladesh guerilla army killed about 1,000 to 150,000 biharis or pro-Pakistani razakars.\n\nThe Extraordinary Chambers in the Courts of Cambodia for the Prosecution of Crimes Committed During the Period of Democratic Kampuchea, commonly known as the Cambodia Tribunal, is a joint court established by the Royal Government of Cambodia and the United Nations to try senior members of the Khmer Rouge for crimes against humanity committed during the Cambodian Civil War. The Khmer Rouge killed many people due to their political affiliation, education, class origin, occupation, or ethnicity.\n\nDuring the 1975 invasion and the subsequent occupation, Indonesian forces murdered tens of thousands of civilians.\n\nThis war has ravaged the country for over 30 years, with several foreign actors playing important roles during different periods. Since 2001 US and NATO troops have been fighting in Afghanistan in the \"War on Terror\" that is also treated in the corresponding section below.\n\nOver 100,000 civilians other than those killed in Saddam's genocide are estimated to have been killed by both sides of the war by R.J.Rummel.\n\n\"The Times\" reports (November 26, 2005 p. 27):\n\nAlmost 20 years of fighting... has killed half a million people. Many of the dead are children... The LRA [a cannibalism cult] kidnaps children and forces them to join its ranks. And so, incredibly, children are not only the main victims of this war, but also its unwilling perpetrators... The girls told me they had been given to rebel commanders as \"wives\" and forced to bear them children. The boys said they had been forced to walk for days knowing they would be killed if they showed any weakness, and in some cases forced even to murder their family members... every night up to 10,000 children walk into the centre of Kitgum... because they are not safe in their own beds... more than 25,000 children have been kidnapped ...this year an average of 20 children have been abducted every week.\n\nAlso see List of ICTY indictees for a variety of war criminals and crimes during this era.\n\nFrom \"The Times\" March 28, 2006 p. 43:\n\nDuring the Algerian Civil War of the 1990s, a variety of massacres occurred through the country, many being identified as war crimes. The Armed Islamic Group (GIA) has avowed its responsibility for many of them, while for others no group has claimed responsibility. In addition to generating a widespread sense of fear, these massacres and the ensuing flight of population have resulted in serious depopulation of the worst-affected areas. The massacres peaked in 1997 (with a smaller peak in 1994), and were particularly concentrated in the areas between Algiers and Oran, with very few occurring in the east or in the Sahara.\n\nDuring the First Chechen War (1994–1996) and Second Chechen War (1999–2000 battle phase, 2000–2009 insurgency phase) there were many allegations of war crimes and terrorism against both sides from various human rights organizations.\n\n\n\nAllegations of war crimes in the 2006 Lebanon War refer to claims of various groups and individuals, including Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and United Nations officials, who accused both Hezbollah and Israel of violating international humanitarian law during the 2006 Lebanon War, and warned of possible war crimes. These allegations included intentional attacks on civilian populations or infrastructure, disproportionate or indiscriminate attacks in densely populated residential districts.\n\nAccording to various media reports, between 1,000 and 1,200 Lebanese citizens were reported dead; there were between 1,500 and 2,500 people wounded and over 1,000,000 were temporarily displaced. Over 150 Israelis were killed (120 military); thousands wounded; and 300,000–500,000 were displaced because of Hezbollah firing tens of thousands of rockets at major cities in Israel.\n\nDuring the Darfur conflict, Civil war in Chad (2005–2010)\nThe conflict in Darfur has been variously characterised as a genocide.\n\nSudanese authorities claim a death toll of roughly 19,500 civilians while many non-governmental organizations, such as the Coalition for International Justice, claim over 400,000 people have been killed.\n\nIn September 2004, the World Health Organization estimated there had been 50,000 deaths in Darfur since the beginning of the conflict, an 18-month period, mostly due to starvation. An updated estimate the following month put the number of deaths for the 6-month period from March to October 2004 due to starvation and disease at 70,000; These figures were criticised, because they only considered short periods and did not include deaths from violence. A more recent British Parliamentary Report has estimated that over 300,000 people have died, and others have estimated even more.\n\nThere were allegations of war crimes by both the Israeli military and Hamas. Criticism of Israel's conduct focused on the proportionality of its measures against Hamas, and on its alleged use of weaponised white phosphorus. Numerous reports from human right groups during the war claimed that white phosphorus shells were being used by Israel, often in or near populated areas. In its early statements the Israeli military denied using any form of white phosphorus, saying \"We categorically deny the use of white phosphorus\". It eventually admitted to its limited use and stopped using the shells, including as a smoke screen. The Goldstone report investigating possible war crimes in the 2009 war accepted that white phosphorus is not illegal under international law but did find that the Israelis were \"systematically reckless in determining its use in build-up areas\". It also called for serious consideration to be given to the banning of its use as an obscurant.\n\nThere are allegations that war crimes were committed by the Sri Lankan military and the rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam during the Sri Lankan Civil War, particularly during the final months of the conflict in 2009. The alleged war crimes include attacks on civilians and civilian buildings by both sides; executions of combatants and prisoners by the government of Sri Lanka; enforced disappearances by the Sri Lankan military and paramilitary groups backed by them; acute shortages of food, medicine, and clean water for civilians trapped in the war zone; and child recruitment by the Tamil Tigers. It is widely accused that the Secretary of Defense Gotabaya Rajapakse (brother of President Mahinda Rajapaksa) ordered troops under his command to \"Kill them All\" when the troops on the grounds asked him for direction for handling the surrendering Tamil combatants.\n\nA panel of experts appointed by UN Secretary-General (UNSG) Ban Ki-moon to advise him on the issue of accountability with regard to any alleged violations of international human rights and humanitarian law during the final stages of the civil war found \"credible allegations\" which, if proven, indicated that war crimes and crimes against humanity were committed by the Sri Lankan military and the Tamil Tigers. The panel has called on the UNSG to conduct an independent international inquiry into the alleged violations of international law. The Sri Lankan government has denied that its forces committed any war crimes and has strongly opposed any international investigation. It has condemned the UN report as \"fundamentally flawed in many respects\" and \"based on patently biased material which is presented without any verification\".\n\nInternational organizations have accused the Syrian government, ISIL and other opposition forces of severe human rights violations, with many massacres occurring. Chemical weapons have been used many times during the conflict as well. The Syrian government is reportedly responsible for the majority of civilian casualties and war crimes, often through bombings. In addition, tens of thousands of protesters and activists have been imprisoned and there are reports of torture in state prisons. Over 470,000 people were killed in the war by 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48577437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48577437", "title": "Manse Jolly", "text": "Manse Jolly\n\nManson Sherrill (Manse) Jolly (died 1869) was the fifth son of Joseph Moorhead Jolly and Anna Cole Sherrill. He had six brothers and four sisters, one of whom died in infancy. Jolly was known for his brutal revenge against the Union soldiers stationed in Anderson, South Carolina after the close of the Civil War.\n\nJolly's furlough papers describe him at twenty years of age as \"six feet four inches high, ruddy complexion, blue eyes, red hair, and by profession a farmer, born in Anderson district in the state of S.C.\" \n\nFive of Jolly's brothers were killed during the war, and the sixth committed suicide, possibly from the effects of the war. Upon returning home to find his town taken over by the men he had been fighting, Jolly swore an oath to kill five \"Yankee\" soldiers for every brother he lost during the war. Jolly more than made good on his oath. He reportedly hid out in the forests surrounding Anderson, and preyed upon the Union soldiers stationed nearby. Jolly used guerrilla warfare tactics, which he would have been familiar with from his experience as a scout during the American Civil War. When it became too dangerous for him to stay in Anderson, Jolly fled to Cameron, Texas to his Sherrill relatives in 1867 where he died by drowning two years later while attempting to cross a swollen stream.\n"}
{"id": "47262499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47262499", "title": "Maria Renee Cura", "text": "Maria Renee Cura\n\nMaria Renée Cura was an Argentinian geographer, writer and Indologist. She was the founder of \"Anand Bhavan\", a centre for Indological studies, at her native place, Chivilcoy in Buenos Aires, Argentina, named after the present day Allahabad museum and the former residence of Nehru family. \n\nCura authored several books, \"Islas Malvinas y Antártida Argentina\", \"Islas Malvinas y Antártida Argentina\" and \"Islas Malvinas, Georgias, Sandwich del Sur y Antártida Argentina\" being some of the notable ones. She also translated the \"Letters to the Young People\", a work by Indira Gandhi, and started a magazine, \"India eterna y actual\", in 1987 which became defunct after her death. She was the president of the \"South Foundation\", founded by Victoria Ocampo and maintained close associations with the Argentinian intellectual and Indira Gandhi, the former prime minister of India. The Government of India awarded her the fourth highest Indian civilian honour of Padma Shri in 1984. Cura died on 12 July 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "8237587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8237587", "title": "Michael Cordner", "text": "Michael Cordner\n\nProfessor Michael Cordner is an academic, author and specialist in theatre and drama.\n\nHis particular interests lie in English drama c.1580–1720 and the development of the theatre in the UK in the second half of the twentieth century.\n\nFormer Professor in English and Related Literature at the University of York, Michael is now Professor of Theatre for the University's purpose built Theatre, Film and Television department. He is the former general editor of Oxford English Drama for Oxford University Press.\n\nMichael Cordner's books and articles include:\n\nEditions\nGeorge Farquhar, The Beaux' Stratagem (1976)\nSir George Etherege, Plays (1982)\nSir John Vanbrugh, Four Comedies (1989)\nFour Restoration Marriage Plays (1995)\nRichard Brinsley Sheridan, 'The School for Scandal' and Other Plays (1998)\n\n'Annotation and Performance in Shakespeare', Essays in Criticism, 46 (1996), 289-301\n'Restoring Zeal-of-the-Land Busy', in Martin Butler (ed.), Re-Presenting Ben Jonson (1999)\n'Playwright versus Priest: Profanity and the Wit of Restoration Comedy', in Deborah Payne Fisk (ed.), The Cambridge Companion to English Restoration Theatre (2000), 209-225\n'Actors, Editors, and the Annotation of Shakespearian Playscripts', Shakespeare Survey, 55 (2002), 181-198\n'\"To Show Our Simply Skill\": Scripts and Performances in Shakespearian Comedy', Shakespeare Survey, 56 (2003), 167-183\n"}
{"id": "52241092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52241092", "title": "Partisan sorting", "text": "Partisan sorting\n\nPartisan sorting or geographic sorting is an effect in politics in which voters with specific viewpoints migrate to specific areas, becoming much more concentrated in them than in the wider electorate. This effect may create or contribute to an effect of polarisation, in which separate areas become dominated by political movements much more extreme than might be expected given the \"average\" political views of voters.\n\nIn 2008, \"The Economist\" commented that in American politics sorting was making \"the culture war more bitter and politics harder.\"\n\nA 2016 study finds no evidence that partisans move to more politically compatible communities.\n"}
{"id": "40437234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40437234", "title": "Proactive law", "text": "Proactive law\n\nProactive law seeks a new approach to legal issues in businesses and societies. Instead of perceiving law as a constraint that companies and people in general need to comply with, proactive law considers law as an instrument that can create success and foster sustainable relationships, which in the end carries the potential to increase value for companies, individuals, and societies in general.\n\nThe word proactive is the opposite of reactive, meaning that the approach to law is based on an ex ante view rather than an ex post view. According to the dictionary of Merriam-Webster, the word proactive refers to \"acting in anticipation of future problems, needs, or changes\".\nThus, the proactive law approach challenges the traditional backwards and failure oriented approach to law by acting in anticipation of legal disputes, taking control of potential problems, providing solutions, and self-initiation, instead of reacting to failures and shortcomings.\n\nThe hotbed of the proactive law movement is the Nordic countries and Finland in particular. The movement took off in the late 1990s and is almost similar to the American movement – Law as a Competitive Source. Both of these parallel evolutions are founded on the work of Louis M. Brown, developed in the 1950s known as the preventive approach to law.\n\nThe proactive law movement has become more visible in recent years, but the idea of an ex ante view is not new. It is generally known that the earlier a dispute or a potential dispute is addressed, the better the chances of a fair, just and prompt solution. Louis M. Brown was the first to introduce the ex ante view in his ground-laying book “Preventive Law”. Although he identified and organized the preventive law into a distinctive way of thinking, he was not the inventor of this approach. It has been, and still is, well known to many legal professionals and every business manager that:\n\n“It usually costs less to avoid getting into trouble than to pay for getting out of trouble.”\n\nTo understand the general principles of proactive law requires understanding the core principles of preventive law, as these principles create the foundation for proactive law and proactive contracting. Edward Dauer identifies four core principles of preventive law:\n\n\nThe proactive law movement encompasses the basic principles of preventive law stated above, namely preventing what is not desirable, and keeping problems and risks from materializing. \nThus, as proactive law consists of preventive law, the characteristics above constitute the foundation of proactive law.\n\nTo this preventive dimension of law, proactive law adds a second aspect, which is often neglected in traditional law – known as the \"promotive dimension\".\n\nThe nature of the promotive dimension is positive and constructive and promotes what is desirable while encouraging good behavior. This is where we find the distinction to preventive law. \nIn a legal context, proactive law emphasizes the importance of collaboration between legal professionals and other disciplines to achieve the desired goals in circumstances where legal expertise collaborates with other disciplines. Proactive law therefore emphasizes the need for dialogue between different understandings. In a medical context, the preventive law prevents ill health, while proactive law promotes well-being.\n\nThe proactive law approach is based on legal certainty, literacy, and cross-professional collaboration to “localize the mines and preventing them from exploding.”\n\nIn addition to navigating past the mines, the legal professionals should create economic value, and thus must be outcome-orientated to exploit the promotive dimension. Lawyers and in-house counsel thus must act to achieve results by watching for changes or opportunities and setting improved goals. To do so, legal professionals must highlight opportunities to build a solid business foundation, roadmaps for performance, trust, and better sustainable relationships.\n\nBesides achieving these business goals, it is important to focus on legal risk management to prevent disputes. Many legal disputes arise due to misunderstandings and disappointed expectations. However, careful attention to legal clarity along with early warning mechanisms, and enhanced collaboration between business partners, through establishment of common goals, avoids the business from getting to the stage of dispute.\n\nIt is essential in proactive law that legal professionals, managers, and other involved stakeholders collaborate on a cross-professional basis to avoid disputes. In addition to avoiding disputes, it is also important to promote creative thinking. To develop new ideas, and concepts that correspond to the needs, problems or challenges, it is necessary to look towards the future rather than the past, maybe by using already known approaches, but also non-existing approaches. This invites businesses, authorities and researchers to develop solutions through creative thinking.\n\nThus, proactive law is about problem-solving, detecting real-life causes for potential misunderstandings and failures, but most of all it is about fostering and promoting fruitful and sustainable relationships that enables the stakeholders to reach their goals, creating value for business, individuals, and society as a whole.\n\nAn indication that Proactive Law is gaining prominence is the fact that the European Commission has published an opinion on Proactive Law.\n\nThe EESC urges a paradigm shift, as the time has come to give up the centuries-old reactive approach to law and to adopt a pro active approach. It is time to look at law in a different way: to look forward rather than back, to focus on how the law is used and oper ates in everyday life and how it is received in the community it seeks to regulate. While responding to and resolving problems remain important, preventing causes of problems is vital, along with serving the needs and facilitating the productive interaction of citizens and businesses.\n\nBy its very nature, the Community legal system is precisely the type of area in which the proactive approach should be adopted when planning, drawing up and implementing laws; against this backdrop, the EESC would argue that rules and regu lations are not the only way nor always the best way to achieve the desired objectives; at times, the regulator may best support valuable goals by refraining from regulating and, where appropri ate, encouraging self-regulation and co-regulation. This being the case, the fundamental principles of subsidiarity, proportionality, precaution and sustainability take on new importance and a new dimension.\n\nThe EESC believes that the single market can benefit greatly when EU law and its makers — legislators and administrators in the broadest sense — shift their focus from inward, from inside the legal system, rules and institutions, to outward, to the users of the law: to society, citizens and businesses that the legal system is intended to serve.\n\nWhile the transposition and implementation of laws are important steps towards better regulation at EU level, regulatory success should be measured by how the goals are achieved at the level of the users of the law, EU citizens and businesses. The laws should be communicated in ways that are meaningful to their intended audience, first and foremost to those whose behaviour is affected and not just to the relevant institutions and administrators.\n\nThe application of the Proactive Law approach should be considered systematically in all lawmaking and implementation within the EU. The EESC strongly believes that by making this approach not only part of the Better Regulation agenda, and but also a priority for legislators and administrators at the EU, national and regional levels, it would be possible to build a strong legal foundation for individuals and businesses to prosper.\n\nWhile Proactive Law in general has gained increased attention at the highest legislatory authorities, businesses seem to be the first movers in this developing research field.\n\nWhen Proactive Law is adapted to businesses the approach is called Proactive Contracting and Proactive Contract Management. The idea is that Proactive Contracting may constitute a sustainable competitive advantage, when implemented thoroughly.\n\nIn recent years law has gained increased prominence as a source of competitive advantage to businesses. This prominence originated with the work of scholars and professionals in the United States and Europe. In the US, research of Robert Bird has contributed to the movement of Law as a Competitive Advantage. \nRobert Bird uses a strategy framework to analyze the attributes of law necessary to obtain a competitive advantage. In Europe, the proactive law movement constitutes the same. \nAs contracts and contract law are major components of successful R&D, IT, operations management, outsourcing etc., it is important that the contracts and contracting processes involved are successful. \nIn the words of Tim Cummins, CEO of the IACCM, “contracts lie at the heart of most business relationships, certainly within Western cultures and economies, and increasingly among all companies or entities that seek to operate in an international market”.\n\nAs international trading grows in value and quantity, it is important for businesses to excel in contracting. Businesses that can manage contracting successfully have a competitive advantage ceteris paribus.\n\nBy incorporating both a preventive and a promotive focus, the proactive law movement encourages both legal goals, which are often preventive—and business goals, which tend to be promotive.\n\nBy combining these two approaches to reaching goals, businesses take advantage of both the preventive focus and the promotive focus.\nTory Higgins has developed a psychological theory called the Regulatory Focus Theory that focuses on motivations and how people tend to achieve their goals.\n\nThe two different orientations towards goal achievement, which have been recognized by Tory Higgins, are:\n\n(1) a preventive focus that emphasizes safety, responsibility and security, and\n\n(2) a promotive focus that emphasizes hopes, accomplishments, and advancements.\n\nThus, the way of businesses to pursuing a goal depends on whether their approach is preventive or promotive. According to Mayer and Weber, people with a preventive focus view goals as minimal targets that produce a low-intensity response when the goal is achieved. On the other hand, people with a promotive approach see goals as maximal targets. Thus, “achievement of the goal results in feelings of high-intensity happiness instead of low-intensity calm”.\n\nIf businesses succeed in incorporating both the preventive and promotive approach in reaching their goals, they may able to utilize the advantages of both legal and business goals.\n"}
{"id": "5348148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5348148", "title": "Quem quaeritis?", "text": "Quem quaeritis?\n\nThe Latin question Quem quaeritis? (Latin for \"Whom do you seek?\") refers to four lines of the medieval Easter liturgy that later formed the kernel of the large body of medieval liturgical drama, which is also known as Visitatio sepulchri (\"Visit to the tomb\"). It was introduced into the liturgy in the tenth century, as a new genre of liturgical ceremony: \nTranslation:\nThe lines were then followed by a sung chorus of Hallelujahs.\n\nThe \"Quem Quaeritis?\" was an exchange of one question, one answer, and one command between the Angels at Christ's tomb and the three Marys, the Virgin Mary, Mary Magdalene, and Mary, the sister of Lazarus. The specific question \"Quem quaeritis?\" \"Whom do you seek?\" is not in fact in Luke 24, where it is implied but omitted: \"Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen\". The actual question is directly expressed only in the non-canonical Gospel of Peter: \n\nIn the canonical gospels it is Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary (the mother of James), and \"other women\" who were present at this event.\n\nAlthough short, this excerpt of text would later snowball into a huge body of religious medieval plays, and evolve into various genres, such as liturgical drama and mystery plays. The plays that can trace their genealogy to the \"Quem Quaeritis?\" lasted for about 650 years, until the end of the Protestant Reformation.\n"}
{"id": "7544423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7544423", "title": "Ravenspurn", "text": "Ravenspurn\n\nRavenspurn was a town in the East Riding of Yorkshire, England, which was lost due to coastal erosion, one of more than 30 along the Holderness Coast which have been lost to the North Sea since the 19th century. The town was located close to the end of a peninsula near Ravenser Odd, which has also been flooded. The peninsula still survives and is known as Spurn Head. The North Sea lies to the east of the peninsula, the river Humber to the west.\n\nThe nearest major city was Kingston upon Hull.\n\nThe region of coastline is known as the Holderness Coast; geologically the land is formed of glacial tills (boulder clay), which are subject to coastal erosion. Now at sea, areas around the site are being drilled for natural gas.\n\nRavenspurn appears in William Shakespeare's plays \"Richard II\", \"Henry IV, Part 1\", and \"Henry VI, Part 3\", under the spelling \"Ravenspurgh\".\n\nTwo medieval English kings landed at Ravenspurn: Henry IV in 1399, on his way to dethrone Richard II, and Edward IV in 1471, on his way back from exile in the Netherlands, where he was resisted by the local lord, Sir Martin de la See.\n\n"}
{"id": "13466721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466721", "title": "Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England", "text": "Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England\n\nThe Royal Commission on the Historical Monuments of England (RCHME) was a government advisory body responsible for documenting buildings and monuments of archaeological, architectural and historical importance in England. It was established in 1908 (shortly after the parallel commissions for Scotland and Wales); and was merged with English Heritage in 1999.\n\nThe Royal Commission was established in 1908, twenty-six years after the passage of the Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1882, which provided the first state protection for ancient monuments in the United Kingdom, and eight years after the passage of the wider-ranging Ancient Monuments Protection Act 1900. Critics, including David Murray in his \"Archaeological Survey of the United Kingdom\" (1896) and Gerard Baldwin Brown in his \"Care of Ancient Monuments\" (1905), had argued that, for the legislation to be effective, a detailed list of significant monuments needed to be compiled, and had made unfavourable comparisons between the policies of Britain and its European neighbours. Learned societies including the British Archaeological Association, the Society of Antiquaries of London, the Royal Institute of British Architects and the Royal Society of Arts also lobbied for action to be taken. Brown had explicitly proposed that the issues should be addressed by a Royal Commission, comparable to the Royal Commission on Historical Manuscripts. His suggestion bore fruit, and led to the establishment in turn of the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland on 14 February 1908; the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales in August 1908; and, finally, by Royal Warrant dated 27 October 1908, the Royal Commission on Historical Monuments (England).\n\nUnder the terms of its warrant, the Commission's remit was \"to make an inventory of the Ancient and Historical Monuments and Constructions connected with or illustrative of the contemporary culture, civilization and conditions of life of the people of England, excluding Monmouthshire, from the earliest times to the year 1700, and to specify those which seem most worthy of preservation\". A revised warrant of 29 November 1913 extended the terminal date to 1714 (the accession of Queen Anne). A new warrant of 29 March 1946 gave the Commissioners discretion to undertake recording beyond 1714, and an informal terminal date of 1850 was adopted.\n\nThe first Commissioners comprised Lord Burghclere (chairman); Sir Henry Howarth (nominated by the Royal Archaeological Institute); Lord Balcarres (nominated by the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings); J.G.N. Clift (nominated by the British Archaeological Association); Leonard Stokes (nominated by the Royal Institute of British Architects); Francis Haverfield; James Fitzgerald; Viscount Dillon; the Earl of Plymouth; E.J. Horniman, MP; and Sir John F.F. Horner.\n\nFurther Royal Warrants, revising the Commission's terms of reference, were granted in 1963 and on 15 April 1992. The Commission was merged with English Heritage on 1 April 1999.\n\nThe Commission determined from the outset to publish its inventories of monuments, and to compile them on a county-by-county basis. The first county selected for survey was Hertfordshire: the resultant volume was published in 1910. Some 40 inventory volumes were published over the next 70 years, before the project was wound down, in favour of more thematic publications, in the early 1980s. In accordance with the Commission's warrant, the inventories were initially limited to identifying constructions up to 1714, but were later extended to 1850.\n\nSeveral inventories were not geographically complete at the time the project was abandoned. Cities and counties covered in part are York (abandoned after 1981) Cambridgeshire (abandoned after 1972), Northamptonshire (abandoned after 1986), Gloucestershire (abandoned after 1976) and Salisbury (abandoned after 1977). In some cases research for forthcoming volumes had started after the decision not to proceed with publication was taken, and these appeared in later HMSO publications or elsewhere. Dorset is the only county which was completed in its entirety to the revised 1850 date, with Cambridge and Stamford the only urban areas to be completed to the same date.\n\nThe published inventories are now available to view in full at British History Online.\n\n\nThe National Buildings Record (NBR) was established on a partially voluntary basis in 1940 as a survey – primarily photographic – of buildings of national importance considered to be at risk of damage or destruction through military action. Although originally independent of the RCHME, the two bodies shared premises and frequently worked in close collaboration. The NBR continued its activities after the end of the war, and in 1963 was taken over by the RCHME. At this point it was renamed the National Monuments Record (NMR) to reflect the fact that its remit was archaeological as well as architectural. In 1999, with the rest of the Commission's activities, it was absorbed into English Heritage, and in 2012 was renamed the English Heritage Archive. In 2015 the work of the NMR moved with the archive to Historic England and became the Historic England Archive.\n\nThe Ordnance Survey had always endeavoured to mark visible antiquities on its maps, and in 1920 had appointed its first archaeology officer: the role had subsequently developed into a department of specialists maintaining a national record of archaeological sites. In 1983 the responsibilities of the Archaeology Division were transferred to the three Royal Commissions for England, Wales and Scotland.\n\nThe Survey of London, a project to undertake an architectural survey of the former County of London, was founded as a private initiative in 1894, but was later taken over by the Greater London Council (GLC). On the abolition of the GLC in 1986, responsibility for the Survey was transferred to the RCHME.\n"}
{"id": "182607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182607", "title": "Site-specific art", "text": "Site-specific art\n\nSite-specific art is artwork created to exist in a certain place. Typically, the artist takes the location into account while planning and creating the artwork. Site-specific art is produced both by commercial artists, and independently, and can include some instances of work such as sculpture, stencil graffiti, rock balancing, and other art forms. Installations can be in urban areas, remote natural settings, or underwater.\n\nThe term \"site-specific art\" was promoted and refined by Californian artist Robert Irwin but it was actually first used in the mid-1970s by young sculptors, such as Patricia Johanson, Dennis Oppenheim, and Athena Tacha, who had started executing public commissions for large urban sites. For \"Two Jumps for Dead Dog Creek\" (1970), Oppenheim attempted a series of standing jumps at a selected site in Idaho, where \"the width of the creek became a specific goal to which I geared a bodily activity,\" with his two successful jumps being \"dictated by a land form.\" Site specific environmental art was first described as a movement by architectural critic Catherine Howett and art critic Lucy Lippard. Emerging out of minimalism, site-specific art opposed the Modernist program of subtracting from the artwork all cues that interfere with the fact that it is \"art\",\n\nModernist art objects were transportable, nomadic, could only exist in the museum space and were the objects of the market and commodification. Since 1960 the artists were trying to find a way out of this situation, and thus drew attention to the site and the context around this site. The work of art was created in the site and could only exist and in such circumstances - it can not be moved or changed. Site is a current location, which comprises a unique combination of physical elements: depth, length, weight, height, shape, walls, temperature. Works of art began to emerge from the walls of the museum and galleries (Daniel Buren, Within and Beyond the Frame, John Weber Gallery, New York, 1973), were created specifically for the museum and galleries (Michael Asher, untitled installation at Claire Copley Gallery, Los Angeles, 1974, Hans Haacke, Condensation Cube, 1963–65, Mierle Laderman Ukeles, Hartford Wash: Washing Tracks, Maintenance Outside, Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford, 1973), thus criticizing the museum as an institution that sets the rules for artists and viewers.\n\nJean-Max Albert, created Sculptures Bachelard in Parc de la Villette related to the site, or \"Carlotta’s Smile\", a trellis construction related to Ar. Co,’s architecture Lisbon, and to a choreography in collaboration with Michala Marcus and Carlos Zingaro, 1979.\n\nWhen the public debate over \"Tilted Arc\" (1981) resulted in its removal in 1989, its author Richard Serra reacted with what can be considered a definition of site-specific art: \"To move the work is to destroy the work.\"\n\nOutdoor site-specific artworks often include landscaping combined with permanently sited sculptural elements; it is sometimes linked with environmental art. Outdoor site-specific artworks can also include dance performances created especially for the site. More broadly, the term is sometimes used for any work that is more or less permanently attached to a particular location. In this sense, a building with interesting architecture could also be considered a piece of site-specific art.\n\nIn Geneva, Switzerland, two Contemporary Art Funds of the city have been looking to integrate art into the architecture and the public space since 1980. The Neons Parallax project initiated in 2007 was conceived specifically for the Plaine de Plainpalais, located in the heart of the city. The challenge of the artists invited was to transpose commercial advertising signs of the harbour into artistic messages. The project has received the Swiss Prix Visarte 2017.\n\nSite-specific performance art, site-specific visual art and interventions are commissioned for the annual Infecting the City Festival in Cape Town, South Africa. The site-specific nature of the work allows artists to interrogate the contemporary and historic reality of the Central Business District and create work that allows the city's users to engage and interact with public spaces in new and memorable ways.\n"}
{"id": "1619859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619859", "title": "Starchild skull", "text": "Starchild skull\n\nThe Starchild skull is part of a malformed human skull which paranormalist Lloyd Pye had claimed is of extraterrestrial origin. The skull is of a child who likely died as a result of congenital hydrocephalus.\n\nPye claimed to have obtained the skull from Ray and Melanie Young of El Paso, Texas, in February 1999, stating that the skull was found around 1930 in a mine tunnel about 100 miles (160 km) southwest of Chihuahua, Mexico, buried alongside a normal human skeleton that was exposed and lying supine on the surface of the tunnel.\n\nPye claimed the skull to be a hybrid offspring of an extraterrestrial and a human female.\n\nA dentist who examined the upper right maxilla found with the skull determined that the skull was that of a child aged 4.5 to 5 years. The volume, however, of the interior of the Starchild skull is 1,600 cubic centimeters, which is 200 cm³ larger than the average adult's brain, and 400 cm³ larger than an adult of the same approximate size. The orbits are oval and shallow, with the optic nerve canal situated closer to the bottom of the orbit than to the back. There are no frontal sinuses. The back of the skull is flattened. The skull consists of calcium hydroxyapatite, the normal material of mammalian bone.\n\nNeurologist Steven Novella of Yale University Medical School says that the cranium exhibits all of the characteristics of a child who has died as a result of congenital hydrocephalus, and the cranial deformations were the result of accumulations of cerebrospinal fluid within the skull.\n\nDNA testing in 1999 at BOLD (Bureau of Legal Dentistry), a forensic DNA lab in Vancouver, British Columbia, found standard X and Y chromosomes in two samples taken from the skull. Novella considers this \"conclusive evidence\" that the child was both male and human, and that both of his parents must have been human in order for each to have contributed one of the human sex chromosomes.\n\nFurther DNA testing in 2003 at Trace Genetics, which specializes in extracting DNA from ancient samples, isolated mitochondrial DNA from both recovered skulls. The child belongs to haplogroup C. Since mitochondrial DNA is inherited exclusively from the mother, it makes it possible to trace the offspring's maternal lineage. The DNA test therefore confirmed that the child's mother was a Haplogroup C human female. However, the adult female found with the child belonged to haplogroup A. Both haplotypes are characteristic Native American haplogroups, but the different haplogroup for each skull indicates that the adult female was not the child's mother.\n\nParanormal researcher Ben Radford states that often \"anything not immediately explainable or obvious is interpreted as a baffling mystery, often with paranormal connotations. ... Science fiction speculation is fun but should not eclipse the real science and significance of these stories\".\n\n"}
{"id": "42010788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42010788", "title": "Stefania Giannini", "text": "Stefania Giannini\n\nStefania Giannini (born 18 November 1960) is an Italian politician and linguist. She served as Minister of Education, Universities and Research from 2014 until 2016.\n\nBorn in Lucca, Giannini in 1991 became a professor at the University for Foreigners in Perugia, holding the chairs of Phonetics and Phonology (1992-1994), Sociolinguistics (1994-1998) and of Glottology and Linguistics (1998-2013). In 2004 she also became rector of the Perugia University for Foreigners. \n\nAs a candidate in Tuscany with the Mario Monti's party Scelta civica, Giannini was elected senator in February 2013. In November the same year, she was appointed secretary and coordinator of the party Scelta civica.\n\nOn 21 February 2014, Giannini was appointed as Minister of Education, University and Research in the government of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi. During Italy's presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2014, she also chaired the Education and Competitiveness Council of the European Union. She was succeeded by Valeria Fedeli in 2016.\n\nFrom 2017, Giannini served as adviser to the European Commissioner for Research and Innovation Carlos Moedas.\n\nIn 2018, UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay appointed Giannini as one of four new members of the organization's senior management team. Giannini has since been serving as Assistant Director-General for Education, making her the top United Nations official in the field of education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37614657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37614657", "title": "Straight man", "text": "Straight man\n\nThe straight man is a stock character in a comedy performance, especially a double act, sketch comedy, or farce. When a comedy partner behaves eccentrically, the straight man is expected to maintain composure. The ability to maintain a serious demeanor in the face of even the most preposterous comedy is crucial to a successful straight man. Whatever direct contribution to the comedy a straight man provides usually comes in the form of deadpan. A straight man with no direct comedic role has historically been known as a stooge. Typically he is expected to feed the funny man lines that he can respond to for laughs, while seeking no acclamation for himself.\n\nIn vaudeville, effective straight men were much less common than comedians. The straight man's name usually appeared first and he usually received 60% of the take. This helped take the sting out of not being the laugh-getter and helped ensure the straight man's loyalty to the team. Abbott and Costello, one of America's most popular comedy duos of the 1940s and 50s in radio, film and television, began as nightclub performers when the straight-faced Bud Abbott contrasted against the bumbling Lou Costello; Abbott, unusually, allowed Costello a larger paycheck to keep him on the team.\n\nThe role is still found today in sitcoms. In the manzai comedy of Japan, the straight man is called \"tsukkomi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23017098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23017098", "title": "The Best American Short Stories 1997", "text": "The Best American Short Stories 1997\n\nThe Best American Short Stories 1997, a volume in \"The Best American Short Stories\" series, was edited by Katrina Kennison and by guest editor E. Annie Proulx. This was the first and only year that the stories were formally grouped by category, rather than alphabetically.\n"}
{"id": "18631479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18631479", "title": "The Book of Disquiet", "text": "The Book of Disquiet\n\nThe Book of Disquiet (Livro do Desassossego: Composto por Bernardo Soares, ajudante de guarda-livros na cidade de Lisboa) is a work by the Portuguese author Fernando Pessoa (1888–1935). Published posthumously, \"The Book of Disquiet\" is a fragmentary lifetime project, left unedited by the author, who introduced it as a \"factless autobiography.\"\nThe publication was credited to Bernardo Soares, one of the author's alternate writing names, which he called semi-heteronyms, and had a preface attributed to Fernando Pessoa, another alternate writing name or orthonym.\n\nMuch studied by \"Pessoan\" critics, who have different interpretations regarding the book's proper organization, \"The Book of Disquiet\" was first published in Portuguese in 1982, 47 years after Pessoa's death (the author died at age 47 in 1935). The book has seen publication in Spanish (1984), German (1985), Italian (1986), French (1988), and English (1991). The \"Book\" in 1991 had four English editions by different translators: Richard Zenith (editor and translator), Iain Watson, Alfred MacAdam and Margaret Jull Costa. The \"Book\" is a bestseller, especially in German (16 editions, from different translators and publishers).\n\nThe book was listed on the Norwegian Book Clubs list of the 100 best works of fiction of all time, based on the responses of 100 authors from 54 countries.\n\nTeresa Sobral Cunha considers that there are two versions of \"The Book of Disquiet\". According to Cunha, who with Jacinto do Prado Coelho and Maria Aliete Galhoz edited the first edition in 1982, there are two authors of the book: Vicente Guedes in a first phase (in the 1910s and 20s), and the aforementioned Bernardo Soares (late 1920s and 30s).\n\nHowever, António Quadros considers that the first phase of the book belongs to Pessoa himself. The second phase, more personal and diary-like, is the one credited to Bernardo Soares.\n\nRichard Zenith, editor of a new Portuguese edition in 1998, took the option of presenting a single volume, as in his English translation of 1991. In his introduction, he writes that \"if Bernardo Soares does not measure up to the full Pessoa, neither are his diary writings the sum total of \"Disquietude\", to which he was after all a johnny-come-lately. \"The Book of Disquietude\" was various books (yet ultimately one book), with various authors (yet ultimately one author), and even the word \"disquietude\" changes meaning as time passes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31886113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31886113", "title": "The Mathematical Magpie", "text": "The Mathematical Magpie\n\nThe Mathematical Magpie is an anthology published in 1962, compiled by Clifton Fadiman as a companion volume to his \"Fantasia Mathematica\" (1958). The volume contains stories, cartoons, essays, rhymes, music, anecdotes, aphorisms, and other oddments. Authors include Arthur C. Clarke, Isaac Asimov, Mark Twain, Lewis Carroll, and many other renowned figures. A revised edition was issued in 1981 and again in 1997. Although out of print, it is recommended for undergraduate mathematics libraries by the Mathematical Association of America as part of their Basic Library List.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis section includes a collection of poems, cartoons, anecdotes, and limericks. The final pages describe Mrs. Miniver's problem.\n"}
{"id": "44237394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44237394", "title": "The Perfect Moment", "text": "The Perfect Moment\n\nThe Perfect Moment was the most comprehensive retrospective of works by New York photographer Robert Mapplethorpe. The show spanned twenty-five years of his career, featuring celebrity portraits, self-portraits, interracial figure studies, floral still lifes, homoerotic images, and collages. The exhibition, organized by Janet Kardon of the Institute of Contemporary Arts in Philadelphia, opened in the winter of 1988 just months before Mapplethorpe’s death from AIDS complications on March 9, 1989. On tour, in the summer of 1989, the exhibition became the centerpiece of a controversy concerning federal funding of the arts and censorship.\n\n\"The Perfect Moment\" covered all aspects of the photographer’s career from the late 1960s to 1988. The traveling exhibition had been scheduled to appear at five other museums in various regions of the country during the next year and a half. It included more than 150 images. Despite the controversial character of some of the photographs, critical response was enthusiastic and attendance was robust throughout the show's Philadelphia run (from December 1988 through January 1989).\n\n\"The Perfect Moment\" traveled to the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago. Again, it generated no unfavorable public or critical attention. In June 1989, after the cancellation of the exhibition by the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington D.C., two and a half weeks before it was to open there, \"The Perfect Moment\" unexpectedly provoked national controversy and ICA became a key player in the congressional debate over what public funds should and should not fund. The issues of censorship and artistic freedom that the show raised occupied the forefront of the debates between conservatives and liberals during the Ronald Reagan era and in its aftermath. Members of the religious right, especially, criticized academics and artists for what they regarded as their indecent, subversive and blasphemous works. \n\n\"The Perfect Moment\" grouped photos into three categories: \n\nRobert Mapplethorpe’s XYZ portfolios, explored three subjects: homosexual sadomasochism (X); flower still lifes (Y); and nude portraits of African American men (Z). The extremely graphic S&M photos from Mapplethorpe’s X Portfolio were displayed in a separate, age-restricted area during at each venue of the exhibition. The portfolios were displayed with a series of poems by poet and singer Patti Smith. The poems echo Mapplethorpe's X,Y,Z trope.\n\nThe images that sparked the most controversy include:\nRosie, a black and white portrait of a very young girl crouched down on a bench outdoors with part of her dress lifted, exposing her genitals, generated controversy because of the subject's age and the issue of consent. This photograph was deemed child pornography by Mapplethorpe's detractors, and it is surprising that it was featured in the exhibition catalogue, considering that the printer had refused to print it for the Mapplethorpe retrospective at the Whitney Museum of Art in 1988. There was one other photograph of a naked child, \"Jessie McBride\" which also contributed to the controversy created by \"Rosie\". \nA 55-minute videotape of a BBC interview with the photographer accompanied the exhibition.\n\nThe art critics in Philadelphia, the show's first venue, critiqued Mapplethorpe's work along formalist lines, without commenting on the provocative content of the X portfolio photographs. Overall, the exhibition was met enthusiastically by critics both Philadelphia and in Chicago, where the show appeared at the Museum of Contemporary Art.\n\nHowever, a campaign launched by the American Family Association, a conservative watchdog group, to censor what they considered “indecent” art changed the climate of reception. In June 12, 1989 Christina Orr-Cahall, the director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, cancelled “The Perfect Moment,” which was scheduled to open there on June 30. Orr-Cahall feared that \"The Perfect Moment\" would endanger National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) appropriations in the United States Congress.\n\nThe exhibition set off one of the fiercest episodes of America's \"culture wars\" — and sparked a recurring debate about state-funded cultural production and the support of sexually explicit or sacrilegious art by public funds.\n\nThe canceling of the \"Perfect Moment\" provoked a censorship battle about national funding for the arts that was front page news for the next year.\n\nOn June 30, 1989, protesters angered by the cancellation of the show by the Corcoran Gallery projected slides of Mapplethorpe’s photographs on the facade of the museum. Seven hundred people rallied to express their outrage about the Corcoran's decision. Michael Brenson, art critic for the \"New York Times\" wrote, “This exhibit should be seen. It is extremely unfortunate that the Corcoran Gallery of Art canceled it last month in the hope of averting a political outcry…. As much as he has been made out to be a renegade and outlaw, Mapplethorpe is an utterly mainstream artist. He loved freshness and glamor and was obsessed with the moment, which his photographs always reflect. In his restricted spaces and his feeling for abstraction and attentiveness to every shape, edge and texture, Mapplethorpe is a child of the Formalism of the 1960’s.\" The Washington Project for the Arts (WPA) stepped in to host the show, and on July 22, 1989, “The Perfect Moment” opened at this alternative art space. No incidents marred the show's run at the Washington Project for the Arts.\n\nHowever, Senator Jesse Helms introduced legislation that would stop the NEA from funding artwork he considered “obscene.” The legislation subsequently required any recipients of NEA funds to sign an oath that declared they would not promote obscenity. The oath provoked protests from artists and arts organizations. When, during the next grant cycle, in this climate of fear, applications for support equaling hundreds of thousands of dollars were rejected. Outraged artists filed lawsuits against the agency. A compromise was reached in Congress. Although the radically restrictive Helms amendment did not pass, restrictions were placed on NEA funding procedures.\n\nIn March 1990, anti-pornography advocates in Cincinnati Ohio, the Citizens for Community Values, launched a campaign to pressure the Contemporary Arts Center (CAC) to cancel “The Perfect Moment.” Cincinnati law enforcement ordered four hundred visitors from the museum to leave while they videotaped Mapplethorpe’s photographs as evidence to support obscenity charges brought against Dennis Barrie, the director of the CAC, and against the CAC. This was the first time a museum in the United States faced prosecution for the art it displayed.\n\nOn October 5, 1990, Dennis Barrie and the CAC were acquitted in the obscenity case. The prosecution failed to convince the jury that Mapplethorpe’s photographs lacked artistic merit. In Cincinnati, more than 80,000 people saw the show. The censorship proceedings doubtless brought more attention to Mapplethorpe's work than it would have otherwise received.\n\nSince the CAC debacle, images from \"The Perfect Moment\", including the X, Y, and Z portfolios, have circulated to in hundreds of exhibitions internationally. Mapplethorpe's work is currently represented by 12 galleries worldwide, with the largest collection of his works at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum. These photographs and history of their attempted censorship during the 1990s have influenced artists, inspired LGBTQ advocates, and generated much scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "7740474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7740474", "title": "Walter Simon (sinologist)", "text": "Walter Simon (sinologist)\n\nErnest Julius Walter Simon, (10 June 189322 February 1981) was a German sinologist and librarian. He was born in Berlin and lived there, being educated at the University of Berlin, until he fled the Nazis to London in 1934, where he spent all the rest of his life except for brief periods as a visiting professor in various countries, teaching Chinese at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London from 1947 to 1960. He made great contributions to historical Chinese phonology and Sino-Tibetan linguistics. As a sinologist, he had a Chinese name, Ximen Huade(西門華德, Xīmén Huádé).\n\n\nSimon was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1961.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5559799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5559799", "title": "White Chapel", "text": "White Chapel\n\nThe White Chapel of pharaoh Senusret I, also referred to as the Jubilee Chapel of Senusret I, was built during the Middle Kingdom of Egypt. During the New Kingdom it was demolished and used as filler for the Third Pylon of the temple of Karnak, Precinct of Amun-Re.\n\nIn 1927, the dismantled pieces were found inside the Third Pylon of the main temple, constructed in the time of Amenhotep III, at Karnak, and between 1927 and 1930 all of the pieces were carefully removed. These pieces were then assembled into the building that is seen today in the Karnak Open Air Museum.\n\nThe White Chapel is made of limestone. Its columns hold reliefs of a very high quality, which are hardly seen elsewhere at Karnak, and depicts Pharaoh Senusret being crowned and embraced by Amun, Horus, Min and Ptah.\n\nAll along the base of the outer walls runs a series of reliefs depicting the emblems and deities of the nomes, or provinces, of Egypt. On the western side are the nomes of Upper Egypt, and on the eastern side are the nomes of Lower Egypt.\n\n\n"}
