{"id": "1529514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1529514", "title": "Academic writing", "text": "Academic writing\n\nAcademic writing is conducted in several sets of forms and genres, normally in an impersonal and dispassionate tone, targeted for a critical and informed audience, based on closely investigated knowledge, and intended to reinforce or challenge concepts or arguments. It usually circulates within the academic world ('the academy'), but the academic writer may also find an audience outside via journalism, speeches, pamphlets, etc.\nTypically, scholarly writing has an objective stance, clearly states the significance of the topic, and is organized with adequate detail so that other scholars may try to replicate the results. Strong papers are not overly general and correctly utilize formal academic rhetoric.\n\nThis article provides a short summary of the full spectrum of critical and academic writing and lists the genres of academic writing. It does cover the variety of critical approaches that can be applied when one writes about a subject. However, as Harwood and Hadley (2004) and Hyland (2004) have pointed out, the amount of variation that exists between different disciplines may mean that we cannot refer to a single academic literacy.\nWhile academic writing consists of a number of text types and genres, what they have in common, the conventions that academic writers traditionally follow, has been a subject of debate. Many writers have called for conventions to be challenged, for example Pennycook (1997) and Ivanic (1998), while others suggest that some conventions should be maintained, for example Clark (1997, p136).\n\nA discourse community is essentially a group of people that shares mutual interests and beliefs. \"It establishes limits and regularities...who may speak, what may be spoken, and how it is to be said; in addition [rules] prescribe what is true and false, what is reasonable and what foolish, and what is meant and what not.\" (Porter, 39).\nPeople are generally involved in a variety of discourse communities within their private, social, and professional lives. Some discourse communities are very formal with well established boundaries, while others may have a more loose construction with greater freedom. Additionally, discourse communities have approved channels of communication in which members write or speak through. These channels can be a web page, a journal, a blog, or any other medium people use to communicate through. Examples of discourse communities may include but certainly not limited to:\n\nThe concept of a discourse community is vital to academic writers across nearly all disciplines, for the academic writer's purpose is to influence a discourse community to think differently. At the same time the discourse community does not expect to see any writing that appears too foreign. For this reason the academic writer must follow the constraints (see article section below) set by the discourse community so his or her ideas earn approval and respect.\n\nConstraints are the discourse community's written and unwritten conventions about what a writer can say and how he or she can say it. They define what is an acceptable argument. Each discourse community expects to see a writer construct his or her argument using their conventional style of language and vocabulary, and they expect a writer to use the established intertext within the discourse community as the building blocks for his or her argument.\n\nIn order for a writer to become familiar with some of the constraints of the discourse community they are writing for, a useful tool for the academic writer is to analyze prior work from the discourse community. The writer should look at the textual 'moves' in these papers, focusing on how they are constructed. Across most discourses communities, writers will:\n\nEach of the 'moves' listed above are constructed differently depending on the discourse community the writer is in. For example, the way a claim is made in a high school paper would look very different from the way a claim is made in a college composition class. It is important for the academic writer to familiarize himself or herself with the conventions of the discourse community by reading and analyzing other works, so that the writer is best able to communicate his or her ideas. (Porter) Contrary to some beliefs, this is by no means plagiarism.\n\nWriters should also be aware of other ways in which the discourse community shapes their writing. Other functions of the discourse community include determining what makes a novel argument and what a 'fact' is. The following sections elaborate on these functions.\n\nIt is important for any writer to distinguish between what is accepted as 'fact' and what is accepted as 'opinion'. Wikipedia's article Fact misguides writers in their interpretation of what a fact actually is. The article states that \"A fact (derived from the Latin factum, see below) is something that has really occurred or is actually the case\". But this is not how writers think of facts. Writing professionals hold that, \"In a rhetorical argument, a fact is a claim that an audience will accept as being true without requiring proof\". Facts can be thought of merely as claims. The audience can be thought of as a discourse community, and a fact can suddenly change to become an opinion if stated in a different discourse community. This is how writers within discourse communities manage to present new ideas to their communities. Any new opinion would need to be proven by making a rhetorical argument, in which the writer would weave together what his or her intended audience will accept as 'facts' in a way that supports his or her idea. Therefore, knowing the intended discourse community is a very important part of writing.\n\nAcross discourse communities, what is considered factual may fluctuate across each community. As Elizabeth Wardle and Douglas Downs wrote in their book \"Writing about Writing\", in reference to Margaret Kantz's article \"Helping students use textual sources persuasively\":\n\nWithin discourse communities, writers build on top of the ideas established by previous writers. One of the most common misconceptions about writing is the idea of the 'lonely writer'; that great writers' papers are filled almost entirely with original ideas and messages. But this is simply not the case. Discourse communities introduce new ideas and claims, and from these, writers expand on them. James Porter, a scholar of Rhetoric at Indiana University, uses The Declaration of Independence as an example to illustrate this point. Porter points out that Jefferson merely pulled the phrase \"That all men are created equal\" straight from his commonplace book he made as a boy. Porter also points out that, \"'Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness'\" was a cliche of the times, appearing in numerous political documents.\" In fact, according to Porter, almost nothing in the Declaration of Independence was written originally by Jefferson. Jefferson wrote this great work by weaving together the intertext of his discourse community. As Greene describes in his article, \"Argument as Conversation\", academic writing can be thought of metaphorically as a conversation between those in the discourse community. \"The metaphor of conversation emphasizes the social nature of writing\" (Greene). Just like in a conversation when you listen to the ideas of the others who are involved and formulate your own opinion on the topic, a writer may be reading a paper done by another writer in the discourse community and from this paper, the scholar may obtain inspiration to expand the claims expressed in the paper or address them from other angles. \"Like the verbal conversations you have with others,' effective arguments never take place in a vacuum; they take into account previous conversations that have taken place about the subject under discussion\" (Greene). Good academic writers know the importance of researching previous work from within the discourse community and using this work to build their own claims. By taking these ideas and expanding upon them or applying them in a new way, a writer is able to make their novel argument.\n\nIntertextuality is the combining of past writings into original, new pieces of text. The term intertextuality was coined in 1966 by Julia Kristeva. All texts are necessarily related to prior texts through a network of links, writers (often unwittingly) make use of what has previously been written and thus some degree of borrowing is inevitable. This generally occurs within a specific discourse community.\n\nFactoring in intertextuality, the goal of academic writing is not simply creating new ideas, but to offer a new perspective and link between already established ideas. This is why gathering background information and having past knowledge is so important in academic writing. A common metaphor used to describe academic writing is \"entering the conversation\", a conversation that began long before you got there and will continue long after you leave. A quote from Kenneth Burke encapsulates this metaphor:\n\nIntertextuality plays into this because without it there would be no conversations, just hundreds of thousands of writings not connected or able to build on each other. The listening until you can join the conversation can be seen as doing research. All of the research you read, is built on research instead of self-knowledge. This can be connected to the part of the metaphor where no one in the parlor is qualified to bring you up to speed, just as the papers your researched were researched also.\n\nPorter inspirationally explores the essence of intertextuality in one of his articles (Intertextuality and the Discourse Community):\n\nThis idea of 'I' being plurality of other texts is one of the reasons, why teachers in Spain often use the expression/metaphor: \"Yo no existo cuando escribo un texto académico y tú no existes tampoco\" which translates to: \"I do not exist when I write academic text and you do not exist too\". The power of this statement is the idea that one can turn intertextuality into ones own favor only once one \"does not exist\" when writing academic text and only once one realizes that there is no universal reader to which the text can be attributed to. The text lives its own life with its own purpose and the author is not the actual creator of the text. The author is simply translating meaning (assignment) into non-existent code, forming non-existent \"I\" which is intended for non-existent reader (it is rather series of different readers, often with various opinions on the text). So what is academic writing about? In essence, it's about nothing. It is an imperfect conventional form of code created by few people whom we do not know and it is surrounded by non-existent concepts. It is inherited from imperfect teachers and is bound to reveal only very small portion of all the possible infinite codes. However, this small portion can be unique. As long as it is, it provides us with new combination of codes and an opportunity to find our own existence in the nothingness which surrounds us, either through the eyes of the machine or through the eyes of our own. What is important, is our ability to recognize which former codes and which texts of the past can help us find our existence and which codes are irrelevant. As long as we are consciously aware of what we are translating from, we are not forced to shift the meaning involuntarily. Therefore, we create an opportunity for people to base their opinion on the actual meaning of the text and enable them to continue creating the non-existent, with a sense of understanding.\n\nThere are two distinct types of intertextuality as defined by Porter:\n\nIterability is the capability of a text to be reiterated and repeated in various contexts. Iterability is explicitly seen in texts, as opposed to presupposition, which refers to assumptions a text makes. One such example of this concept from Porter is the Declaration of Independence. Many texts and ideas of different centuries were integrated into the one document. Jefferson took the idea of John Locke's social contract theory, the Declaration of Rights for Virginia by George Mason, and the form of the English Bill of Rights in 1689 into the Declaration of Independence. Some claimed that this was blatant plagiarism but others say it was iterability. He used the form of a list of grievances as used in the English Bill of Rights and this example proves that not only direct quotes can be reiterated but also the form of a text. When Thomas Jefferson proposed the Declaration to congress, they made 86 changes to his actual original ideas because they were so farfetched from the current discourse community. This is an example of the constraint a discourse community can place on a text.\n\nPresupposition is the process by which implications are made without being specifically stated or explained within text. These assumptions are usually extremely basic thoughts made by a vast majority of the audience; such thoughts may be considered \"common sense\" or otherwise obvious to anyone who reads the text.\nExample: \"Rodrigo rode his bike to his friend's house.\"\nExample: \"It was a dark and stormy night.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"These are acceptable to some academic disciplines, e.g. Cultural studies, Fine art, Feminist studies, Queer theory, Literary studies.\"\n\n\nThe most common disposition standard in the academic world is the IMRAD method, stating that an academic document should consist of sections in the following order:\nand\n\nOther common sections in academic documents are:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22215583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22215583", "title": "Academy of San Carlos", "text": "Academy of San Carlos\n\nThe Academy of San Carlos () is located at 22 Academia Street in just northeast of the main plaza of Mexico City. It was the first major art academy and the first art museum in the Americas. It was founded in 1781 as the School of Engraving and moved to the Academia Street location about 10 years later. It emphasized classical European training until the early 20th century, when it shifted to a more modern perspective. At this time, it also integrated with the National Autonomous University of Mexico, eventually becoming the Faculty of Arts and Design, which is based in Xochimilco. Currently, only graduate courses of the modern school are given in the original academy building.\n\nThe Academy of San Carlos was founded in 1781 under the name of the School of Engraving. From that time to the present, it has been renamed many times to The Royal Academy of the Three Noble Arts of San Carlos (Real Academia de la Tres Nobles Artes de San Carlos) (1783), Academia Nacional de San Carlos de México (1821); Academia Imperial de San Carlos de México (1863); Escuela Nacional de Bellas Artes (1867) and Escuela Nacional de Artes Plásticas (1929). \n\nMexican painter Miguel Cabrera iterated the need for an art academy as early as 1753 but attempts by him and other prominent Mexican artists of the time to gain royal permission for such was never obtained. The School of Engraving was begun later in the building that used to be the mint, and would later become the modern-day National Museum of Cultures. Ten years later, it moved to the former Amor de Dios Hospital, where it remains to this day. The street it is located on was renamed from Amor de Dios Street to Academia Street in its honor.\n\nThe Academy was originally sponsored by the Spanish Crown and a number of private patrons. The academy was inaugurated on 4 November 1781 on the saint's day of King Carlos III, operating for its first ten years in the old mint building (now the National Museum of Cultures). However, it did not obtain its royal seal until 1783 and was not fully functional until 1785. The school moved into the old \"Hospital del Amor de Dios\" building in 1791, where it has remained ever since. The academy was the first major art institution in the Americas.\nThe school's first director, Italian Jeronimo Antonio Gil, was appointed by Carlos III and gathered prominent artists of the day including José de Alcíbar, Santiago Sandoval, Juan Sáenz, Manuel Tolsá and Rafael Ximeno y Planes. Tolsá and Ximeno would later stay on to become directors of the school. The new school began to promote Neoclassicism, focusing on Greek and Roman art and architecture, advocating European-style training of its artists. To this end, plaster casts of classic Greek and Roman statues were brought to Mexico from Europe for students to study.\n\nSince its founding, it attracted the country's best artists, and was a force behind the abandonment of the Baroque style in Mexico, which had already gone out-of-fashion in Europe.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the academy was closed for a short time due to the Mexican War of Independence. When it reopened, it was renamed the National Academy of San Carlos and enjoyed the new government's preference for Neoclassicism, as it considered the Baroque reminiscent of colonialism. Despite the school's association with the independent Mexican government, Emperor Maximilian I (installed in Mexico by the French) protected the school during his reign, although foreign artists were shunned there. When Benito Juárez ousted the emperor and regained the presidency of Mexico, he was reluctant to support the school and its European influence, which he considered to be a vestige of colonialism.\n\nThe academy continued to advocate classic, European-style training of its artists until 1913. In that year, a student and teacher strike advocating a more modern approach ousted director Antonio Rivas Mercado. It was also partially integrated into University of Mexico (now UNAM) at that time, although it initially kept a large degree of autonomy. In 1929, the architecture program was separated from the rest of the academy, and in 1953, this department was moved to the newly built campus of UNAM in the south of the city. The remaining programs in painting, sculpture and engraving were renamed National School of Expressive Arts Escuela Nacional de Artes Plásticas. Later, the undergraduate fine arts programs were moved to a facility in Xochimilco, leaving only some graduate programs in the original Academy of San Carlos building.\n\nSome of its most famous first teachers included Miguel Constanzó in architecture, José Joaquín Fabregat in metal engraving, Rafael Ximeno y Planes in painting and Manuel Tolsá in sculpture. Another notable teacher here was Pelegrí Clavé, who was noted for his expertise in creating portraits of heroes and biblical figures.\n\nCatalan Antonio Fabres was a dominant force at the Academy during early 20th century. He would mentor later Mexican artists such as Saturnino Herrán, Roberto Montenegro, Diego Rivera and José Clemente Orozco.\n\nJosé María Velasco is considered the greatest artist associated with the Academy, famous for his landscapes of the Valley of Mexico and a mentor of Diego Rivera. Other artists linked to the Academy are Manuel Rodríguez Lozano, Alfredo Zalce, Andrés José López, José Chávez Morado, Francisco Moreno Capdevila, Luis Sahagún Cortés, Gabriel Fernández Ledesma and Jorge Figueroa Acosta. Matusha Corkidi studied at the Academy after emigrating from Egypt.\n\nThe building originally was as the Amor de Dios Hospital, which had closed by the time the School of Engraving decided to move there from the mint building. Founding director Jeronimo Antonio Gil took charge of the restoration and remodeling work. Artist Javier Cavallari created the Academy's Neoclassic facade, which is embellished with six medallions. Four of these represent the Academy's founders: Carlos III, Carlos IV, Jeronimo Antonio Gil and Fernando José Manguino, and the other two are of Michelangelo and Raphael. Cavallari also finished the patio, the conference room and the painting and sculpture galleries. The painting gallery contains portraits by Ramon Sagredo and the sculpture room contains works by José Obregón and Manuel Ocaranza.\n\nA number of plaster casts of classic statues from the San Fernando Fine Arts Academy in Spain were brought here for teaching purposes. These casts still exist and can be seen on display in the Academy's central patio. Some of these statues include casts of statues from the Medici tombs, Moses by Michelangelo, The Victory of Samothrace and Venus de Milo.\n\nThe academy once had a very large collection of art in the Gallery of the San Carlos Academy, considered the first museum of art in the Americas. Its art collection began with plaster casts of original Greek, Roman and European works used as teaching aids. It also gained other European works such as engravings from the 16th to 19th centuries from Spain, France, England, Italy, Germany, and Holland. The school also collected works from students and teachers from its founding to beginning of the 20thcentury. However, the collection outgrew the original academy building as it received donations from private sources and purchases made by the Mexican government after independence. The collection was divided, some going to the Museo Universitario de la Academia, also in the historic center of town, some going to the National Museum of San Carlos, northeast of the historic center and the rest remaining in the original building.\n\n"}
{"id": "52941039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52941039", "title": "Accessibility apps", "text": "Accessibility apps\n\nAccessibility apps are mobile apps that increase the accessibility of a device for individuals with disabilities.\n"}
{"id": "24802328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24802328", "title": "Alfa (title)", "text": "Alfa (title)\n\nAlfa is a title given to distinguished figures in Guinea, particularly in the Kankan Region. It has become known in Guinea as a title of respect, especially amongst the Maninka and Fulbé and is commonly given to scholars and learned and religious military leaders.\n"}
{"id": "9110963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9110963", "title": "Articulatory gestures", "text": "Articulatory gestures\n\nArticulatory gestures are the actions necessary to enunciate language. Examples of articulatory gestures are the hand movements necessary to enunciate sign language and the mouth movements of speech. In semiotic terms, they are the physical embodiment (signifiers) of speech signs, which are gestural by nature (see below).\n\nThe definition of \"gesture\" varies greatly, but here it will be taken in its widest sense, namely, any meaningful action. An intentional action is meaningful if it is not strictly utilitarian: for example, sending flowers to a friend is a gesture, because this action is performed not only for the purpose of moving flowers from one place to another, but also to express some sentiment or even a conventional message in the language of flowers. Use of the broadest definition of gesture (not restricted to hand movements) allows Hockett’s “rapid fading” design feature of human language to be accommodated as a type of sign in semiotic theory.\n\nBut if an articulatory gesture is to be considered a true gesture in the above sense, it must be meaningful. Therefore, an articulatory gesture must be at least as large as the smallest meaningful unit of language, the morpheme. A morpheme corresponds roughly to a spoken word or a sign language gesture. \n\nThis definition differs from the practice, common among linguists, of referring to phonemes (meaningless mouth movements) as articulatory gestures (see articulatory phonology). In semiotics, meaningless components of spoken gestures (written as individual letters), or meaningless components of sign language gestures (such as location of hand contact) are known as figurae, the constituents of signs. \n\nIt also differs from the tradition of considering speech sounds to be the signifiers of speech signs. But this practice confuses signals with symbols. Sound and light are analogue signals, whereas mouth and hand gestures are discrete symbolic entities. A sound or light signal is subject to random noise, whereas the image of the gesture is subject to regular distortion, as when a signer’s hand is viewed from different angles. In speech, the sound of the contact of the tongue in the letter T can be distorted by surrounding mouth movements, as in the phrase “perfect memory”. When pronounced at conversational speed, the sound of the tongue contact is completely obscured by surrounding consonants even though this T movement is fully carried out.\n\nArticulatory gestures, when seen as the physical embodiment of speech and sign language symbols, provide a link between these two language types, and show how speech resembles sign language more closely than is generally presumed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1130838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130838", "title": "Atellan Farce", "text": "Atellan Farce\n\nThe Atellan Farce (Latin: \"Atellanae Fabulae\" or \"Fabulae Atellanae\", \"favola atellana\"; \"Atellanicum exhodium\", \"Atella comedies\"), also known as the Oscan Games (Latin: \"ludi Osci\", \"Oscan plays\"), were masked improvised farces. It was very popular in Ancient Rome, and usually put on after longer plays like the pantomime. The name is believed to have been derived from Atella, an Oscan town in Campania, who were one of the first to have a theatre and the hypothesized point of origin of Atellan Farce. They were originally written in Oscan and imported into Rome in 391 BC. In later Roman versions, only the ridiculous characters read their lines in Oscan, while the others used Latin.\n\nAtellan Farce evidence is scarce, but surviving fragments point to the comedy genre coming about no earlier than 90 BC. \n\nSome of the hypothesized stock characters included:\nThere has been some debate of these characters connection to similar stock characters in Commedia dell'arte, as well as Punch and Judy. Atellan Farce and Commedia were both improvised masked comedies. Some Historians argue that the stock characters in Atellan Farce are the beginnings of what would become the stock characters of Commedia dell'arte.\n\nSome of the theorized character progressions are as follows:\nHowever, the connection of Atellan Farce to Commedia dell'arte and assumption that Atellan Farce is the precursor to Commedia dell'arte is still under debate. As for Atellan Farce's connection to Punch and Judy, the similarities between Punch and the Commedia dell'arte character Pulcinella are notable. However, many historians still debate whether or not Punch's derivation can be traced back to Pulcinella.\n\nAt first, the subjects were decided upon before the performance began and the dialogue was improvised as it proceeded. The performers were the sons of Roman citizens, who did not lose their rights as citizens, and were allowed to serve in the army: professional actors were excluded. The simple prose dialogues were probably varied by songs in the rude Saturnian metre: the language was that of the common people, accompanied by lively gesticulation and movements. They were characterized by coarseness and obscenity.\n\nLater, it is believed that the dictator Sulla wrote some Atellan Fables. Quintus Novius, who flourished 50 years after the abdication of Sulla, wrote some fifty, including \"Macchus Sexul\" (\"Exiled Macchus\"), \"Gallinaria\" (\"The Henhouse\"), \"Surdus\" (\"The Deaf One\"), \"Vindemiatores\" (\"The Harvesters\"), and \"Parcus\" (“The Treasurer”).\n\nLucius Pomponius, of Bologna, is known to have composed a few, including \"Macchus Miles\" (\"Macchus the Soldier\"), \"Pytho Gorgonius\", \"Pseudoagamemnon\", \"Bucco Adoptatus\", and \"Aeditumus\". He was also said to have been influenced by the Palliata Fabius Dorsennus. Quintus Novius and a \"Memmius\" were also authors of these comedies; Ovid and Pliny the Younger found the work of Memmius to be indecent.\n\nTaken from Tacitus ( Annals, Book 4): \"...after various and often fruitless complaints from the praetors, the emperor Tiberius finally brought forward a motion about the licentious behavior of the players. 'They had often,' he said. 'Sought to disturb the public peace, and to bring disgrace on private families, and the old Oscan farce, once a wretched amusement for the vulgar, had become at once so indecent and popular, that it must be checked by the Senate's authority'. The players, upon this, were banished from Italy\".\n\nSuetonius (\" Tiberius\", 45, 1) reports that Tiberius himself was mocked for his lecherous habits in an Atellan farce, after which the saying \"the old goat lapping up the doe\" (\"hircum vetulum capreis naturam ligurire\") became popular.\n\nThe above passage suggests a growth in popularity or maybe even a revival of these farces, in the 20s AD, that met the disapproval of an older generation of patricians and senators. Perhaps they were even performed out in public places as an act of direct hostility towards (or a means to mock) specific people or families. At any rate, these performances eventually became so obnoxious that, in 28 AD, all those who performed in these farces were banished from Italy.\n\nThe \"Augustan History\" records that Hadrian furnished performances of Atellan Farces at banquets.\n\n\nThe works of Pomponius and Novius can be found in \n\n"}
{"id": "7109281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7109281", "title": "Award pin", "text": "Award pin\n\nAn award pin is a small object, usually made from metal or plastic, with a pin on the back, presented as an award of achievement or a mark of appreciation. They are worn on clothes such as jackets, shirts or hats.\n\nAward pins usually have an image or words, or both, depicting the reason for the award. \n\nAn award pin series that is offered by the U.S. Government to all eligible civilians is the Pilot Proficiency Award Program.\nAward pins are commonly given to participants of youth sports as a method to reinforce excellent play and sportsmanship. There are many companies that provide Sports Award Pins. \n\nAward pins can usually be plated on Gold (Plain or antique), Silver (plain or antique), Nickel and Black Nickel or Copper (plain or antique).\n\nDuring the manufacturing process pins can be filled with enamel colors and then covered with a thin coat of epoxy to protect these colors.\n\n"}
{"id": "817003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=817003", "title": "BBC Domesday Project", "text": "BBC Domesday Project\n\nThe BBC Domesday Project was a partnership between Acorn Computers, Philips, Logica and the BBC (with some funding from the European Commission's ESPRIT programme) to mark the 900th anniversary of the original \"Domesday Book\", an 11th-century census of England. It has been cited as an example of digital obsolescence on account of the physical medium used for data storage.\n\nThis new multimedia edition of Domesday was compiled between 1984 and 1986 and published in 1986. It included a new \"survey\" of the United Kingdom, in which people, mostly school children, wrote about geography, history or social issues in their local area or just about their daily lives. Children from over 9,000 schools were involved. This was linked with maps, and many colour photos, statistical data, video and \"virtual walks\". Over 1 million people participated in the project. The project also incorporated professionally prepared video footage, virtual reality tours of major landmarks and other prepared datasets such as the 1981 census.\n\nThe project includes local information gathered and stored by school pupils, in order to create an up-to-date version.\n\nThe project was stored on adapted LaserDiscs in the LaserVision Read Only Memory (LV-ROM) format, which contained not only analogue video and still pictures, but also digital data, with 300 MB of storage space on each side of the disc. Data and images were selected and collated by the BBC Domesday project based in Bilton House in West Ealing. Pre-mastering of data was carried out on a VAX-11/750 mini-computer, assisted by a network of BBC micros. The discs were mastered, produced, and tested by the Philips Laservision factory in Blackburn, England. Viewing the discs required an Acorn BBC Master expanded with a SCSI controller and an additional coprocessor controlled Philips VP415 \"Domesday Player\", a specially produced laserdisc player. The user interface consisted of the BBC Master's keyboard and a trackball (known at the time as a trackerball). The software for the project was written in BCPL (a precursor to C), to make cross platform porting easier, although BCPL never attained the popularity that its early promise suggested it might.\n\nThe project was split over two laserdiscs:\n\nIn 2002, there were great fears that the discs would become unreadable as computers capable of reading the format had become rare and drives capable of accessing the discs even rarer. Aside from the difficulty of emulating the original code, a major issue was that the still images had been stored on the laserdisc as single-frame analogue video, which were overlaid by the computer system's graphical interface. The project had begun years before JPEG image compression and before truecolour computer video cards had become widely available.\n\nHowever, the BBC later announced that the CAMiLEON project (a partnership between the University of Leeds and University of Michigan) had developed a system capable of accessing the discs using emulation techniques. CAMiLEON copied the video footage from one of the extant Domesday laserdiscs. Another team, working for the UK National Archives (who hold the original Domesday Book) tracked down the original 1-inch videotape masters of the project. These were digitised and archived to Digital Betacam.\nA version of one of the discs was created that runs on a Windows PC. This version was reverse-engineered from an original Domesday Community disc and incorporates images from the videotape masters. It was initially available only via a terminal at the National Archives headquarters in Kew, Surrey, but was published on the web in July 2004. This version was taken off-line early in 2008 when its programmer, Adrian Pearce, suddenly died.\n\nThe deputy editor of the Domesday Project, Mike Tibbets, has criticized the UK's National Data Archive to which the archive material was originally entrusted, arguing that the creators knew that the technology would be short-lived but that the archivists had failed to preserve the material effectively.\n\nThe Centre for Computing History has undertaken a similar project to preserve the data from the Domesday Project and make it available online. They already have data from both the National Disk and Community Disk online and are currently investigating copyright issues before releasing the URL to the general public. They have a working Domesday system on display and accessible to the public. They also have possibly the largest Domesday and interactive laserdisc archive in the world.\n\nThe National Museum of Computing based beside Bletchley Park in Milton Keynes previously had two working Domesday systems but has retired the displays as of 2017.\n\nIn 2011 a team at BBC Learning, headed by George Auckland republished much of the Community disc data in a short-lived web based format. This data comprising around 25,000 images was loaded onto the BBC Domesday Reloaded website which went online in May 2011, and offline (with some content archived elsewhere) in June 2018. The data extraction underlying the Domesday Reloaded site was carried out in 2003 and 2004 by Simon Guerrero and Eric Freeman.\n\nIn addition to preserving the project, untangling the copyright issues also presents a significant challenge. In addition to copyright surrounding the many contributions made by the estimated 1 million people who took part in the project, there are also copyright issues that relate to the technologies employed. It is likely that the Domesday Project will not be completely free of copyright restrictions until at least 2090 (assuming no further extensions of copyright terms).\n\n"}
{"id": "58000788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58000788", "title": "Biology in fiction", "text": "Biology in fiction\n\nBiology appears in fiction, especially but not only in science fiction, both in the shape of real aspects of the science, used as themes or plot devices, and in the form of fictional elements, whether fictional extensions or applications of biological theory, or through the invention of fictional organisms. Major aspects of biology found in fiction include evolution, disease, genetics, parasitism and symbiosis (mutualism), and ecology.\n\nSpeculative evolution enables authors with sufficient skill to create what the critic Helen N. Parker calls biological parables, illuminating the human condition from an alien viewpoint. Fictional alien animals and plants, especially humanoids, have frequently been created simply to provide entertaining monsters. Zoologists such as Sam Levin have argued that, driven by natural selection on other planets, aliens might indeed tend to resemble humans to some extent.\n\nMajor themes of science fiction include messages of optimism or pessimism; Helen N. Parker has noted that in biological fiction, pessimism is by far the dominant outlook. Early works such as H. G. Wells's novels explored the grim consequences of Darwinian evolution, ruthless competition, and the dark side of human nature; Aldous Huxley's \"Brave New World\" was similarly gloomy about the effects of genetic engineering. \n\nFictional biology, too, has enabled major science fiction authors like Stanley Weinbaum, Isaac Asimov, John Brunner, and Ursula Le Guin to create what Parker called biological parables, with convincing portrayals of alien worlds able to support deep analogies with Earth and humanity.\n\nAspects of biology found in fiction include evolution, disease, ecology, genetics, parasitism, and mutualism (symbiosis).\n\nEvolution, including speculative evolution, has been an important theme in fiction since the late 19th century. It began, however, before Charles Darwin's time, and reflects progressionist and Lamarckist views (as in Camille Flammarion's 1887 \"Lumen\") as well as Darwin's. Darwinian evolution is pervasive in literature, whether taken optimistically in terms of how humanity may evolve towards perfection, or pessimistically in terms of the dire consequences of the interaction of human nature and the struggle for survival. Other themes include the replacement of humanity, either by other species or by intelligent machines.\n\nDiseases, both real and fictional, play a significant role in both literary and science fiction, some like Huntington's disease and tuberculosis appearing in many books and films. Pandemic plagues threatening all human life, such as \"The Andromeda Strain\", are among the many fictional diseases described in literature and film. Science fiction takes an interest, too, in imagined advances in medicine. \"The Economist\" suggests that the abundance of apocalyptic fiction describing the \"near annihilation or total extinction of the human race\" by threats including deadly viruses rises when general \"fear and unease\", as measured by the Doomsday Clock, increase.\n\nTuberculosis was a common disease in the 19th century. In Russian literature, it appeared in several major works. Fyodor Dostoevsky used the theme of the consumptive nihilist repeatedly, with Katerina Ivanovna in \"Crime and Punishment\"; Kirillov in \"The Possessed\", and both Ippolit and Marie in \"The Idiot.\" Turgenev did the same with Bazarov in \"Father and Sons\". In English literature of the Victorian era, major tuberculosis novels include Charles Dickens's 1848 \"Dombey and Son\", Elizabeth Gaskell's 1855 \"North and South\", and Mrs. Humphry Ward's 1900 \"Eleanor\".\n\nAspects of genetics including mutation or hybridisation, cloning (as in \"Brave New World\"), genetic engineering, and eugenics have appeared in fiction since the 19th century. Genetics is a young science, having started in 1900 with the rediscovery of Gregor Mendel's study on the inheritance of traits in pea plants. During the 20th century it developed to create new sciences and technologies including molecular biology, DNA sequencing, cloning, and genetic engineering. The ethical implications of modifying humans (and all their descendants) were brought into focus with the eugenics movement. Since then, many science fiction novels and films have used aspects of genetics as plot devices, often taking one of two routes: a genetic accident with disastrous consequences; or, the feasibility and desirability of a planned genetic alteration. The treatment of science in these stories has been uneven and often unrealistic. The 1997 film \"Gattaca\" did attempt to portray science accurately but was criticised by scientists. Michael Crichton's 1990 novel \"Jurassic Park\" portrayed the cloning of whole dinosaur genomes from fossil remains of species extinct for millions of years, and their use to recreate living animals, using what was then known of genetics and molecular biology to create an \"entertaining\" and \"thought-provoking\" story.\n\nThe lack of scientific understanding of genetics in the 19th century did not prevent science fiction works such as Mary Shelley's 1818 novel \"Frankenstein\" and H. G. Wells's 1896 \"The Island of Dr Moreau\" from exploring themes of biological experiment, mutation, and hybridisation, with their disastrous consequences, asking serious questions about the nature of humanity and responsibility for science.\n\nParasites appear frequently in fiction, from ancient times onwards as seen in mythical figures like the blood-drinking Lilith, with a flowering in the nineteenth century. These include intentionally disgusting alien monsters in science fiction films, though these are sometimes less \"horrible\" than real examples in nature. Authors and scriptwriters have to some extent exploited parasite biology: lifestyles including parasitoid, behaviour-altering parasite, brood parasite, parasitic castrator, and many forms of vampire are found in books and films.\nSome fictional parasites, like the deadly parasitoid Xenomorphs in \"Alien\", have become well known in their own right. Terrifying monsters are clearly alluring: writer Matt Kaplan notes that they induce signs of stress including raised heart rate and sweating, but people continue indulging in such works. Kaplan compares this to the \"masochism\" of liking very hot spicy foods, which induce mouth burns, sweating, and tears. The psychologist Paul Rozin suggests that there is a pleasure in seeing one's own body react as if to stress while knowing that no real harm will result.\n\nSymbiosis (mutualism) appears in fiction, especially science fiction, as a plot device. It is distinguished from parasitism in fiction, a similar theme, by the mutual benefit to the organisms involved, whereas the parasite inflicts harm on its host. Fictional symbionts often confer special powers on their hosts. After the Second World War, science fiction moved towards more mutualistic relationships, as in Ted White's 1970 \"By Furies Possessed\", which viewed aliens positively. In \"The Phantom Menace\", Qui-Gon Jinn says microscopic lifeforms called midi-chlorians, inside all living cells, allow characters with enough of these symbionts in their cells to feel and use the Force.\n\nEcology, the study of the relationships between organisms and their environment, appears in fiction in novels such as Frank Herbert's 1965 \"Dune\", Kim Stanley Robinson's 1992 \"Red Mars\", and Margaret Atwood's 2013 \"MaddAddam\". \"Dune\" brought ecology centre stage, with a whole planet struggling with its environment. Its lifeforms included giant sandworms for whom water is fatal and mouse-like animals able to survive in the planet's desert conditions. The book was influential on the environmental movement of the time. \n\nIn the 1970s, the impact of human activity on the environment stimulated a new kind of writing, ecofiction. It has two branches: stories about human impact on nature; and stories about nature (rather than humans). It encompasses books written in styles from modernism to magical realism, and in genres from mainstream to romance and speculative fiction. A 1978 anthology of ecofiction includes 19th and 20th century works by authors as diverse as Ray Bradbury, John Steinbeck, Edgar Allan Poe, Daphne du Maurier, E. B. White, Kurt Vonnegut Jr., Frank Herbert, H. H. Munro, J. G. Ballard, and Isaac Asimov.\n\nFiction, especially science fiction, has created large numbers of fictional species, both alien and terrestrial. One branch of fiction, speculative evolution or speculative biology, consists specifically of the design of imaginary organisms in particular scenarios; this is sometimes informed by precise science.\n\nFictional biology serves a variety of function in film and literature, including the supply of suitably terrifying monsters, the communication of an author's worldview, and the creation of aliens for biological parables to illuminate what it is to be human. Real biology, such as of infectious diseases, equally provides a variety of contexts, from personal to highly dystopian, that can be exploited in fiction.\n\nA common use of fictional biology in science fiction is to provide plausible alien species, sometimes simply as terrifying subjects, but sometimes for more reflective purposes. Alien species include H. G. Wells's Martians in his 1898 novel \"The War of the Worlds\", the bug-eyed monsters of early 20th century science fiction, fearsome parasitoids, and a variety of giant insects, especially in early 20th century big bug movies.\n\nHumanoid (roughly human-shaped) aliens are common in science fiction. One reason is that authors use the only example of intelligent life that they know: humans. The zoologist Sam Levin points out that aliens might indeed tend to resemble humans, driven by natural selection. Luis Villazon points out that animals that move necessarily have a front and a back; as with bilaterian animals on Earth, sense organs tend to gather at the front as they encounter stimuli there, forming a head. Legs reduce friction, and with legs, bilateral symmetry makes coordination easier. Sentient organisms will, Villazon argues, likely use tools, in which case they need hands and at least two other limbs to stand on. In short, a generally humanoid shape is likely, though octopus- or starfish-like bodies are also possible.\n\nMany fictional plants were created in the 20th century, including John Wyndham's venomous, walking, carnivorous triffids. in his 1951 novel \"The Day of the Triffids\", The idea of plants that could attack an incautious traveller began in the late 19th century; the potatoes in Samuel Butler's \"Erewhon\" had \"low cunning\". Early tales included Phil Robinson's 1881 \"The Man-Eating Tree\" with its gigantic flytraps, Frank Aubrey's 1897 \"The Devil Tree of El Dorado\", and Fred White's 1899 \"Purple Terror\". Algernon Blackwood's 1907 story \"The Willows\" powerfully tells of malevolent trees that manipulate people's minds.\n\nA major theme of science fiction and of speculative biology is to convey a message of optimism or pessimism according to the author's worldview. Whereas optimistic visions of technological progress are common enough in hard science fiction, pessimistic views of the future of humanity are far more usual in fiction based on biology.\n\nA rare optimistic note is struck by the evolutionary biologist J. B. S. Haldane in his tale, \"The Last Judgement\", in the 1927 collection \"Possible Worlds\". Both Arthur C. Clarke's 1953 \"Childhood's End\" and Brian Aldiss's 1959 \"Galaxies Like Grains of Sand\", too, optimistically imagine that humans will evolve godlike mental capacities.\n\nThe grim possibilities of Darwinian evolution with its ruthless \"survival of the fittest\" has been explored repeatedly from the beginnings of science fiction, as in H. G. Wells's novels \"The Time Machine\" (1895), \"The Island of Dr Moreau\" (1896), and \"The War of the Worlds\" (1898); these all pessimistically explore the possible dire consequences of the darker sides of human nature in the struggle for survival. Aldous Huxley's 1931 novel \"Brave New World\" is similarly gloomy about the oppressive consequences of advances in genetic engineering applied to human reproduction.\n\nThe literary critic Helen N. Parker suggested in 1977 that speculative biology could serve as biological parables which throw light on the human condition. Such a parable brings aliens and humans into contact, allowing the author to view humanity from an alien perspective. She noted that the difficulty of doing this at length meant that only a few major authors had attempted it, naming Stanley Weinbaum, Isaac Asimov, John Brunner, and Ursula Le Guin. In her view, all four had impressively full characterizations of alien beings. Weinbaum had created a \"bizarre assortment\" of intelligent beings, unlike Brunner's crablike but extinct Draconians. What united all four writers, she argued, was that the novels centred on the interactions between aliens and humans, creating deep analogies between the two kinds of life and from there commenting on humanity now and in the future. Weinbaum's 1934 \"A Martian Odyssey\" explored the question of how aliens and humans could communicate, given that their thought processes were utterly different.\nAsimov's 1972 \"The Gods Themselves\" both makes the aliens major characters, and explores parallel universes.\nBrunner's 1974 \"Total Eclipse\" creates a whole alien world, extrapolated from terrestrial threats.\n\nIn her 1969 \"The Left Hand of Darkness\", Le Guin presents her vision of a universe of planets all inhabited by \"men\", descendants from the planet Hain. In the book, the ambassador Genly Ai from the civilised Ekumen worlds visits the \"backward- and inward-looking\" people of Gethen, only to end up in danger, from which he escapes by crossing the polar ice cap on a desperate but well-planned expedition with an exiled Gethenian Lord Chancellor, Estraven. They are ambisexual with no fixed gender, and go through periods of oestrus, called \"kemmer\", at which point an individual comes temporarily to function as either a male or a female, depending on whether they first encounter a male- or female-functioning partner during their period of kemmer. The invented biology reflects and exemplifies, according to Parker, the opposing but united dualities of Taoism such as light and darkness, maleness and femaleness, yin and yang. So too do the opposed characters of Genly Ai with his carefully objective reports, and of Estraven with his or her highly personal diary, as the story unfolds, illuminating humanity through adventure and science fiction strangeness.\n\nModern novels sometimes make use of biology to provide structure and themes. Thomas Mann's 1912 \"Death in Venice\" relates the feelings of the protagonist to the progress of an epidemic of cholera, which eventually kills him.\nRichard Flanagan's 2001 novel \"Gould's Book of Fish\", which makes use of the illustrations from artist and convict William Buelow Gould's book of 26 paintings of fish for chapter headings and as the inspiration for the various characters in the novel.\n\nThe geneticist Dan Koboldt observes that the science in science fiction is often oversimplified, reinforcing popular myths to the point of \"pure fiction\". In his own field, he gives as examples the idea that first-degree relatives have the same hair, eyes and nose as each other, and that a person's future is predicted by their genetic code, as (he states) in \"Gattaca\". Koboldt points out that eye colour changes as children grow up: adults with green or brown eyes often had blue eyes as babies; that brown-eyed parents can have children with blue eyes, \"and vice versa\"; and that the brown pigment melanin is controlled by around 10 different genes, so inheritance is along a spectrum rather than being a blue/brown switch. Other authors in his edited collection \"Putting the Science in Fiction\" point out a wide variety of errors in the portrayal of other biological sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "3788502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3788502", "title": "Classical Mongolian language", "text": "Classical Mongolian language\n\nClassical Mongolian is an extinct Mongolic language formerly used in Mongolia, China, and Russia. It is a standardized written language used in the 18th century and 20th centuries. Notable texts include the translation of the Kanjur and Tanjur and several chronicles roughly between 1700 and 1900. \n\n\"Classical Mongolian\" sometimes refers to any language documents in Mongolian script that are neither Pre-classical (i.e. Middle Mongol in Mongolian script) nor modern Mongolian.\n\n"}
{"id": "999521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=999521", "title": "Commune", "text": "Commune\n\nA commune (the French word appearing in the 12th century from Medieval Latin \"communia\", meaning a large gathering of people sharing a common life; from Latin \"communis\", things held in common) is an intentional community of people living together, sharing common interests, often having common values and beliefs, as well as shared property, possessions, resources, and, in some communes, work, income or assets.\n\nIn addition to the communal economy, consensus decision-making, non-hierarchical structures and ecological living have become important core principles for many communes. There are many contemporary intentional communities all over the world, a list of which can be found at the Fellowship for Intentional Community (FIC). For the usually larger-scale, political entities in communist political theory, see socialist communes, which are similar but distinct social organizations.\n\nBenjamin Zablocki categorized communities this way:\n\n\nMany communal ventures encompass more than one of these categorizations. Some communes, such as the ashrams of the Vedanta Society or the Theosophical commune Lomaland, formed around spiritual leaders, while others formed around political ideologies. For others, the \"glue\" is simply the desire for a more shared, sociable lifestyle.\n\nThe central characteristics of communes, or core principles that define communes, have been expressed in various forms over the years. Before 1840 such communities were known as \"communist and socialist settlements\"; by 1860, they were also called \"communitarian\" and by around 1920 the term \"intentional community\" had been added to the vernacular of some theorists. The term \"communitarian\" was invented by the Suffolk-born radical John Goodwyn Barmby, subsequently a Unitarian minister.\n\nAt the start of the 1970s, \"The New Communes\" author Ron E. Roberts classified communes as a subclass of a larger category of Utopias. He listed three main characteristics. Communes of this period tended to develop their own characteristics of theory though, so while many strived for variously expressed forms of egalitarianism Roberts' list should never be read as typical. Roberts' three listed items were: first, egalitarianism – that communes specifically rejected hierarchy or graduations of social status as being necessary to social order. Second, human scale – that members of some communes saw the scale of society as it was then organized as being too industrialized (or factory sized) and therefore unsympathetic to human dimensions. And third, that communes were consciously anti-bureaucratic.\n\nTwenty five years later, Dr. Bill Metcalf, in his edited book \"Shared Visions, Shared Lives\" defined communes as having the following core principles: the importance of the group as opposed to the nuclear family unit, a \"common purse\", a collective household, group decision making in general and intimate affairs. Sharing everyday life and facilities, a commune is an idealized form of family, being a new sort of \"primary group\" (generally with fewer than 20 people although again there are outstanding examples of much larger communes or communes that experienced episodes with much larger populations). Commune members have emotional bonds to the whole group rather than to any sub-group, and the commune is experienced with emotions which go beyond just social collectivity.\n\nWith the simple definition of a commune as an intentional community with 100% income sharing, the online directory of the Fellowship for Intentional Community (FIC) lists 186 communes worldwide (17 August 2011). Some of these are religious institutions such as abbeys and monasteries. Others are based in anthroposophic philosophy, including Camphill villages that provide support for the education, employment, and daily lives of adults and children with developmental disabilities, mental health problems or other special needs. Many communes are part of the New Age movement.\n\nMany cultures naturally practice communal or tribal living, and would not designate their way of life as a planned 'commune' per se, though their living situation may have many characteristics of a commune.\n\nIn Germany, a large number of the intentional communities define themselves as communes and there is a network of political communes called \"Kommuja\" with about 30 member groups (May 2009). Germany has a long tradition of intentional communities going back to the groups inspired by the principles of \"Lebensreform\" in the 19th century. Later, about 100 intentional communities were started in the Weimar Republic after World War I, many had a communal economy. In the 1960s, there was a resurgence of communities calling themselves communes, starting with the Kommune 1 in Berlin, followed by Kommune 2 (also Berlin) and Kommune 3 in Wolfsburg.\n\nIn the German commune book, \"Das KommuneBuch\", communes are defined by Elisabeth Voß as communities which:\n\n\nKibbutzim in Israel, (sing., kibbutz) are examples of officially organized communes, the first of which were based on agriculture. Today, there are dozens of urban communes growing in the cities of Israel, often called urban kibbutzim. The urban kibbutzim are smaller and more anarchist. Most of the urban communes in Israel emphasize social change, education, and local involvement in the cities where they live. Some of the urban communes have members who are graduates of zionist-socialist youth movements, like HaNoar HaOved VeHaLomed, HaMahanot HaOlim and Hashomer Hatsair.\n\nIn 1831 John Vandeleur (a landlord) established a commune on his Ralahine Estate at Newmarket-on-Fergus, Co. Clare. Vandeleur asked Edward Thomas Craig, an English socialist, to formulate rules and regulations for the commune. It was set up with a population of 22 adult single men, 7 married men and their 7 wives, 5 single women, 4 orphan boys and 5 children under the age of 9 years. No money was employed, only credit notes which could be used in the commune shop. All occupants were committed to a life with no alcohol, tobacco, snuff or gambling. All were required to work for 12 hours a day during the summer and from dawn to dusk in winter. The social experiment prospered for a time and 29 new members joined. However, in 1833 the experiment collapsed due to the gambling debts of John Vandeleur. The members of the commune met for the last time on 23 November 1833 and placed on record a declaration of \"the contentment, peace and happiness they had experienced for two years under the arrangements introduced by Mr. Vandeleur and Mr. Craig and which through no fault of the Association was now at an end\".\n\nIn imperial Russia, the vast majority of Russian peasants held their land in communal ownership within a \"mir\" community, which acted as a village government and a cooperative. The very widespread and influential pre-Soviet Russian tradition of Monastic communities of both sexes could also be considered a form of communal living. After the end of Communism in Russia, monastic communities have again become more common, populous and, to a lesser degree, more influential in Russian society. Various patterns of Russian behavior—toloka (толока), pomochi (помочи), artel' (артель)—are also based on Communal (\"мирские\") traditions.\n\nA 19th century advocate and practitioner of communal living was the utopian socialist John Goodwyn Barmby, who founded a Communist Church before becoming a Unitarian minister. The UK today has several communes or intentional communities, increasing since the New Towns Act 1946 to recuperate a lost sense of community at the centralization of population in Post-War New Towns such as Crawley or Corby.\n\nThe Simon Community in London is an example of social cooperation, made to ease homelessness within London. It provides food and religion and is staffed by homeless people and volunteers. Mildly nomadic, they run street \"cafés\" which distribute food to their known members and to the general public.The Bruderhof has three locations in the UK and follows the example of the earliest Christians in the Book of Acts by living in community and sharing all things in common. In Glandwr, near Crymych, Pembrokeshire, a co-op called Lammas Ecovillage focuses on planning and sustainable development. Granted planning permission by the Welsh Government in 2009, it has since created 9 holdings and is a central communal hub for its community. In Scotland, the Findhorn Foundation founded by Peter and Eileen Caddy and Dorothy Maclean in 1962 is prominent for its educational centre and experimental architectural community project based at The Park, in Moray, Scotland, near the village of Findhorn.\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>The Findhorn Ecovillage community at The Park, Findhorn, a village in Moray, Scotland, and at Cluny Hill in Forres, now houses more than 400 people.\n\nThere is a long history of communes in America (see this short discussion of Utopian communities) which led to the rise in the communes of the hippie movement—the \"back-to-the-land\" ventures of the 1960s and 1970s . One commune that played a large role in the hippie movement was Kaliflower, a utopian living cooperative that existed in San Francisco between 1967 and 1973 built on values of free love and anti-capitalism.\n\nAndrew Jacobs of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"after decades of contraction, the American commune movement has been expanding since the mid-1990s, spurred by the growth of settlements that seek to marry the utopian-minded commune of the 1960s with the American predilection for privacy and capital appreciation.\" (See Intentional community). The Fellowship for Intentional Community (FIC) is the best source for listings of and more information about communes in the United States.\n\nWhile many American communes are short lived, some have been in operation for over 50 years. The Bruderhof was established in the US in 1954, Twin Oaks in 1967 and Koinonia Farm in 1942. Twin Oaks is a rare example of a non-religious commune surviving for longer than 30 years.\n\n, the Venezuelan state has initiated the construction of almost 200 \"socialist communes\" which are billed as autonomous and independent from the government. The communes purportedly have their own \"productive gardens\" that grow their own vegetables as a method of self-supply. The communes also make independent decisions in regards to administration and the use of funding. The idea has been denounced as an attempt to undermine elected local governments, since the central government could shift its funding away from these in favor of communes, which are overseen by the federal Ministry of Communes and Social Protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2501808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2501808", "title": "Cremation of Care", "text": "Cremation of Care\n\nThe Cremation of Care is an annual theatrical production written, produced and performed by and for members of the Bohemian Club, and staged at the Bohemian Grove near Monte Rio, California at a small artificial lake amid a private old-growth grove of Redwood trees.\n\nThe dramatic performance is presented on the first night of the annual encampment as an allegorical banishing of worldly cares for the club members, and \"to present symbolically the salvation of the trees by the club\", but the secretive nature of the Bohemians, and the political power of some of its members, has been criticized.\n\nIn 1878, the Bohemian Club of San Francisco first took to the woods in Taylorville, California (present-day Samuel P. Taylor State Park) for a summer celebration that they called Midsummer High Jinks. Poems were recited, songs were sung, and dramatic readings were given; the practice was repeated each summer in other areas, primarily near the Russian River in Sonoma County. In 1881, the ceremony of the \"Cremation of Care\" was first conducted after the various individual performances, with James F. Bowman as Sire. The ceremony was further expanded in 1893 by a member named Joseph D. Redding, with a Midsummer High Jinks entitled \"The Sacrifice in the Forest\", or simply \"Druid Jinks\", in which brotherly love and Christianity battled and won against paganism, converting the druids away from bloody sacrifice. Redding formed the framework of the ceremony but the main actors, including George Tisdale Bromley as High Priest, were asked to supply their own major speeches. In 1904, the prologue to William Henry Irwin's Grove Play \"The Hamadryads\" included text such as \"Touch their world-blind eyes with fairy unguents.\" The play depicted the intrusion, the battles, and the symbolic death of the maleficent Spirit of Care.\n\nIn the earliest productions of the Grove Play, several restrictions were imposed upon the Sire (the master of ceremonies) including that the stage setting be the natural forest backdrop and that the \"malign character Care\" be introduced in the plot, to wreak havoc with the characters and then be faced down and vanquished by the hero. In these early productions, the \"Cremation of Care\" immediately followed, and lasted until midnight. The end of the ceremony was signaled by a lively Jinks Band rendition of \"There'll Be a Hot Time in the Old Town Tonight\", and the club members sat down to a late dinner and revelry.\n\nFrom 1913, the \"Cremation of Care\" was disengaged from the Grove Play, and rescheduled for the first night of the summer encampment. The Grove Play was set for the final weekend. A different Sire was appointed for the Cremation, and some concerns were raised in subsequent years that the \"Cremation of Care\" was growing into its own secondary Grove Play. Some Sires experimented with a satirical treatment, or topical themes such as a patriotic World War I treatment in 1918 and an unpopular Prohibition script in 1919. \"Care\" was not killed, let alone cremated, in the 1922 version. In response to member complaints about the unpredictable quality of the opening night fare, Charles K. Field was asked in 1923 to standardize the script for what became the basis for every subsequent \"Cremation of Care\" ceremony.\n\nThe ceremony involves the poling across a lake of a small boat containing an effigy of Care (called \"Dull Care\"). Dark, hooded figures receive from the ferryman the effigy which is placed on an altar, and, at the end of the ceremony, set on fire. This \"cremation\" symbolizes that members are banishing the \"dull cares\" of conscience. At the time the script was developed, the primary meaning of the word 'care' (< O.E. \"cearu\", \"anxiety, anguish\") was synonymous with 'worry', having more negative connotations than in modern times when it tends to be associated more positively with compassion.\n\nThe ceremony takes place in front of the Owl Shrine, a hollow owl statue made of concrete over steel supports. The moss- and lichen-covered statue simulates a natural rock formation, yet holds electrical and audio equipment within it. During the ceremony, a recording is used as the voice of The Owl. For many years the recorded voice was club guest Walter Cronkite. Music and pyrotechnics accompany the ritual for dramatic effect.\n\nOn July 15, 2000, filmmaker Alex Jones and his cameraman, Mike Hanson, infiltrated the Bohemian Grove expecting to uncover the owl statue being worshipped as Moloch, with human sacrifices thrown into its fiery interior. With a hidden camera, Jones and Hanson filmed the \"Cremation of Care\" ceremony. The footage was the centerpiece of Jones' documentary \"Dark Secrets: Inside Bohemian Grove\". Jones claimed that the \"Cremation of Care\" was an \"ancient Canaanite, Luciferian, Babylon mystery religion ceremony\". The Grove and Jones' investigation were covered by Jon Ronson in Channel 4's four-part documentary \"Secret Rulers of the World\". Ronson documented his view of the ritual in his book \"\", writing: \"My lasting impression was of an all-pervading sense of immaturity: the Elvis impersonators, the pseudo-pagan spooky rituals, the heavy drinking. These people might have reached the apex of their professions but emotionally they seemed trapped in their college years.\"\n\nOutside of the main entrance to the Bohemian Grove, protesters against club members and their guests have held a ceremony called the \"Resurrection of Care\", intended to symbolically reverse the effects of the Cremation of Care, to prevent the attendees from temporarily abandoning their cares. The counter ceremony was first held in 1980, organized by Mary Moore, a former beauty queen turned left-wing activist. Moore was less concerned about the Cremation of Care ceremony than with the likelihood that club members with corporate interests would gain influence in government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35019174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35019174", "title": "Dayne Ogilvie Prize", "text": "Dayne Ogilvie Prize\n\nThe Dayne Ogilvie Prize for LGBTQ Emerging Writers is a Canadian literary award, presented annually by the Writers' Trust of Canada to an emerging Canadian writer who is part of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer community. It is one of two literary awards in Canada serving the LGBTQ community, alongside the Blue Metropolis Violet Prize for established writers.\n\nThe award was originally established by artist Robin Pacific as the Dayne Ogilvie Grant in memory of Dayne Ogilvie, a book editor, writer, arts manager and former managing editor of \"Xtra!\" who died in October 2006. The award was renamed from a grant to a prize in 2012.\n\nEstablished in 2007, the prize is not presented for a specific work, although writers must have published at least one book of fiction or poetry to be eligible. The winner is selected by an independent jury of three members, and presented annually during Pride Toronto.\n\nBeginning in the prize's second year, the award introduced a preliminary shortlist of two or three writers. The writer or writers not selected as the final winner of the prize are presented with an Honour of Distinction, worth if one writer is named or each if two writers are named. Authors who are awarded the Honour of Distinction remain eligible for the primary award in future years, although to date no writer who has been awarded an Honour of Distinction has subsequently been named the primary winner.\n\n"}
{"id": "4284860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4284860", "title": "Edgar Allan Poe and music", "text": "Edgar Allan Poe and music\n\nThe influence of Edgar Allan Poe on the art of music has been considerable and long-standing, with the works, life and image of the horror fiction writer and poet inspiring composers and musicians from diverse genres for more than a century.\n\nLeon Botstein, conductor of the American Symphony Orchestra—which presented a program of \"Tales From Edgar Allan Poe\" in 1999—noted that in the realm of classical music, as in literature, Poe's influence was felt more deeply in Europe than in America.\n\nAndré Caplet's \"Conte fantastique\" for harp and strings, published in 1924 but begun at least as early as 1909, is a musical retelling of \"The Masque of the Red Death\".\n\nIn 1913, Sergei Rachmaninoff set his choral symphony \"The Bells\" to a Russian translation of Poe's eponymous poem.\n\nThe Finnish composer Einojuhani Rautavaara based his 1997 choral fantasy \"On the Last Frontier\" on the final two paragraphs of Poe's novel \"The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket\".\n\nOther operas based on stories by Poe are \"Ligeia\", a 1994 opera by Augusta Read Thomas, and \"The Tell-Tale Heart\" by Bruce Adolphe. A ballet based on a story by Poe is \"Hop-Frog\", a 2009 ballet by Terry Brown.\n\nThe American composer Dominick Argento wrote an opera, based on the death of Poe.\n\nThe American composer Emma Lou Diemer set \"A Dream Within A Dream\" and \"Eldorado\" for mixed chorus and piano. These works were published by Hinshaw Music, Inc. in 2001. Daron Hagen included settings of \"A Dream Within a Dream\" and \"Thou Wouldst Be Loved\" in the 1983 song cycle \"Echo's Songs\", published by E.C. Schirmer. Leonard Bernstein set \"Israfel\" as part of his song cycle for voices and orchestra, .\n\nThe American conductor and composer Leonard Slatkin composed a setting of \"The Raven\" for narrator and symphony orchestra in 1971. A lesser-known American composer, Edgar Stillman Kelley (1857–1944) wrote a piece for orchestra entitled \"The Pit and the Pendulum\".\n\nThe Russian composer Nikita Koshkin wrote the 1984 piece \"Usher Valse\" (Usher Waltz) for solo guitar, depicting Usher's frenzied guitar performance in the short story \"The Fall of the House of Usher\". The Usher Waltz has been recorded by John Williams and Elena Papandreou.\n\nThe American composer Philip Glass wrote the 1978 \"The Fall of the House of Usher\" to a libretto by Arthur Yorinks.\n\nThe American composer James Poulsen composed \"Five Poems of Edgar Allan Poe\" for medium high voice and piano in 1986. The song cycle was orchestrated in 1998 with a commission from Jack and Dawn Taylor of Des Moines, Iowa. The Des Moines Symphony premiered the work in 1999 with Robin Roewe, tenor. The poems in the set are: 'Alone', 'Evening Star', Hymn', 'A Dream', and 'To One in Paradise.' Poulsen has also set a letter of Poe, a letter of Maria Clemm, and the valentine poem of Virginia Poe to music.\n\nThe American conductor and composer Adam Stern wrote a setting of Poe's early poem \"Spirits of the Dead\", subtitled \"rhapsody for narrator and orchestra.\" The work received its world premiere in Seattle in October, 2014. Edmund Stone was the narrator, and the composer led the Seattle Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nThe American composer Christopher Rouse based his 2011 symphonic poem \"Prospero's Rooms\" on the castle of Prince Prospero in \"The Masque of the Red Death.\"\n\nThe British and American composer Tarik O'Regan uses portions of Poe's poem \"Israfel\" as the basis of his 2006 composition \"The Ecstasies Above\" for voices and string quartet.\n\n\nFor his influence on other media:\n\nFor his appearances as a fictional character:\n\n"}
{"id": "44646448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44646448", "title": "Female mentorship", "text": "Female mentorship\n\nFemale mentorship is the mentoring of women by women to further their career and development prospects. A female mentor is sometimes called a \"femtor\".\n\nThe Rhodes Project, which examines the experience of female Rhodes Scholars, was created in 2004 by Ann Olivarius. Rhodes Scholars are chosen from around the world for graduate study at the University of Oxford. The project showcases research on the lack of career-support networks, based on interviews and data from female Rhodes Scholars who were born in the 1950s to 1980s and who earned graduate and professional degrees until the early 2000s. The project is interested in how this data reflects the current situation of women. One interviewee told the researchers: \"It would have been helpful to really know to what extent things still haven’t changed for women. ... How I would have handled situations might have been different if I had understood what was going on behind the scenes. The blatant examples are something that you deal with but it’s the subtle things and understanding those that I would have worked through differently.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "6748187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6748187", "title": "Frank Popper", "text": "Frank Popper\n\nFrank Popper (born April 17, 1918) is a historian of art and technology and Professor Emeritus of Aesthetics and the Science of Art at the University of Paris VIII. He has been decorated with the medal of the Légion d'honneur by the French Government. He is author of the books: \"Origins and Development of Kinetic Art\", \"Art, Action, and Participation\", \"Art of the Electronic Age\" and \"From Technological to Virtual Art\". He turned 100 in April 2018.\n\nPopper documents the historical record of the relationship between technology and participatory forms of art, especially between the late 1960s and the early 1990s. Sharing his focus on art and technology are Jack Burnham (\"Beyond Modern Sculpture\" 1968) and Gene Youngblood (\"Expanded Cinema\" 1970). They show how art has become, in Frank Popper's terms, virtualized.\n\nIn his books \"Origins and Development of Kinetic Art\" and \"Art, Action and Participation\", Popper showed how Kinetic Art played an important part in pioneering the unambiguous use of optical movement and in fashioning links between science, technology, art and the environment. Popper has been a champion of the humanizing effects of such an interdisciplinary synthesis.\n\nKey to his initial thinking and activities as an aesthetician, cultural theorist, curator, teacher, and art critic was his encounter in the early 1950s with the kinetic artist (and author of the book \"Constructivism\"), George Rickey. He subsequently encountered the artists Nicolas Schoffer and Frank Malina, whose works were based on first or second-hand scientific knowledge. Also Op Art in the early 1960s had a powerful effect on him. Indeed, Op proved to be a strong predecessor to what he is calling Virtual Art in that Op Art called attention to the spectator's individual, constructive, and changing perceptions - and thus called upon the spectator to transfer the creative act increasingly upon him or herself. Op beckons forth a consideration of the enlargement of the audience's participatory role; both in regard to the perception of meaning and actual physical changes to the work of art. Popper also has had many personal encounters in Paris with Groupe de Recherche d’Art Visual, Carlos Cruz-Diez, Yaacov Agam, Jesus-Rafael Soto and Victor Vasarely which proved to have had a substantial impact on his view of art and art history.\n\nFollowing this inclination he took interest in the works of Piotr Kowalski, Roy Ascott and many others working with the early concept of networking. These artists confirmed his interest in spectator participation, which brought him to the late 1980s and the 1990s when immersive virtual reality and digital art began to become established. Popper began to investigate a range of works emerging in this era, including that of Shawn Brixey, Ebon Fisher and Joseph Nechvatal. To explain and illustrate the emergence of a techno-aesthetic Popper stresses the panoramic and multi-generational reach of virtual art. As regards to virtual art, openness is stressed both from the point of view of the artists and their creativity and from that of the follow-up users in their reciprocating thoughts and actions. This commitment to the teeming openness found in virtual art can be traced to the theories of Umberto Eco and other aestheticians. Recently Eco has expressed a consideration of the computer as a spiritual tool.\n\nPopper uses the term, virtual art, in reference to all the art made with the technical media developed at the end of the 1980s (or a bit before, in some cases). These include human-machine interfaces such as visualization casks, stereoscopic spectacles and screens, generators of three-dimensional sound, data gloves, data clothes, position sensors, tactile and power feed-back systems, etc. All these technologies allowed immersion into the image and interaction with it. The impression of reality felt under these conditions was not only provided by vision and hearing, but also by the other bodily senses. This multiple sensing was so intensely experienced at times, that Popper could speak of it as an immersive virtual reality (VR).\nIn his book \"From Technological to Virtual Art\", Popper traces the development of immersive, interactive new media art from its historical antecedents through today's digital art, computer art, cybernetic art, multimedia and net art. Popper shows that contemporary virtual art is a further refinement of the technological art of the late twentieth century - and also a departure from it. What is new about this new media art, he argues, is its humanization of technology, its emphasis on interactivity, its philosophical investigation of the real and the virtual, and its multisensory nature. He argues further that what distinguishes the artists who practice virtual art from traditional artists is their combined commitment to aesthetics and technology. Their \"extra-artistic\" goals - linked to their aesthetic intentions - concern not only science and society but also basic human needs and drives.\n\nDefining virtual art broadly as art that allows us, through an interface with technology, to immerse ourselves in computer art and interact with it, Popper identifies an aesthetic-technological logic of creation that allows artistic expression through integration with technology. After describing artistic forerunners of virtual art from 1918 to 1983 - including art that used light, movement, and electronics - Popper looks at contemporary new media art forms and artists. He surveys works that are digital based but materialized, multimedia offline works, interactive digital installations, and multimedia online works (net art) by many artists. The biographical details included reinforce Popper's idea that technology is humanized by art.\n\nVirtual art, he argues, offers a new model for thinking about humanist values in a technological age. Virtual art, as Popper sees it, is more than just an injection of the usual aesthetic material into a new medium, but a deep investigation into the ontological, psychological and ecological significance of such technologies. The aesthetic-technological relationship produces an unprecedented artform.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56509917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56509917", "title": "Fujin Kōron", "text": "Fujin Kōron\n\n"}
{"id": "5904688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5904688", "title": "Ghost word", "text": "Ghost word\n\nA ghost word is a word published in a dictionary or similarly authoritative reference work, having rarely, if ever, been used in practice, and hitherto having been meaningless. As a rule a ghost word will have originated from an error, such as a misinterpretation, mispronunciation, or misreading, or from typographical or linguistic confusion.\n\nOnce authoritatively published, a ghost word occasionally may be copied widely and take a long time to be erased from usage (if it ever is).\n\nThe term ghost words was coined and originally presented in public by Professor Walter William Skeat in his annual address as president of the Philological Society in 1886. He said in part:\n\nIt turned out that \"kimes\" was a misprint for \"knives\", but the word gained currency for some time. A more drastic example followed, also cited in Skeat's address:\n\nOne example of such an edition of \"The Monastery\" was published by the Edinburgh University Press in 1820.\n\nIn his address, Skeat exhibited about 100 more specimens that he had collected.\n\nOther examples include:\n\nMany neologisms, including those that eventually develop into established usages, are of obscure origin, and some might well have originated as ghost words through illiteracy, such as the term \"okay\". However, establishing the true origin often is not possible, partly for lack of documentation, and sometimes through obstructive efforts on the part of pranksters. The most popular etymology of the word pumpernickel bread - that Napoleon described it as \"C'est pain pour Nicole!\", being only fit for his horse - is thought to be a deliberate hoax. \"Quiz\" also has been associated with apparently deliberate false etymology. All these words and many more have remained in common usage, but they may well have been ghost words in origin.\n\nA recent, incorrect use of the term \"ghost word\" refers to coining a new word implied logically from a real word, often etymologically incorrectly. The correct term for such a derivation is back-formation, a word that has been established since the late 19th century. An example is \"beforemath\" which is derived from \"aftermath\". A back-formation cannot become a ghost word; as a rule it would clash with Skeat's precise definition, which requires that the word forms have \"no meaning\".\n\nGhost words and similar errors and creations, certainly including back-formations, usually are at least troublesome to philologists as a source of neologisms and linguistic confusion. More philosophically, one might as well regard them as a source of linguistic challenge and entertainment; probably most of them disappear harmlessly, and those that enter common use might well gain general acceptance simply because they express something comfortably, or otherwise meet a need. The ultimate origins of most words in any language are in essence no more respectable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56689792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56689792", "title": "Ghostlore", "text": "Ghostlore\n\nGhostlore, Ghost-Lore, or Ghost Lore is a folklore genre consisting of the folklore of ghosts. Ghostlore occurs throughout recorded history, including contemporary contexts. For example, American folklorist Louis C. Jones observes the following in 1944:\nGhostlore is still widespread and popular. While most of the actions thought to be common among ghosts (chain clanking, cemetery haunting, and so forth) can be found, they are by no means so widespread in the popular ghostlore as we have been led to expect. The ghost who is very like the living is far more common than any other. ... It might be expected that a rational age of science would destroy belief in the ability of the dead to return. I think it works the other way: in an age of scientific miracles anything seems possible.\n\n"}
{"id": "48782520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48782520", "title": "Global Release Day", "text": "Global Release Day\n\nGlobal Release Day (alternatively known as New Music Fridays) is a new set international day for releasing of music singles and albums. The new global release day went into effect on 10 July 2015 in more than 45 major recorded music markets worldwide with new music being released on a Friday as part of 'New Music Fridays'. \n\nThe official announcement was made on 11 June 2015 by International Federation of the Phonographic Industry (IFPI), which represents the worldwide recording industry. The move means that new music will be available on the same day worldwide rather than on varying national release days, being Mondays for releases in France and the United Kingdom, Tuesdays in United States and Canada and Fridays, for example in Germany and Australia.\n\nMusic releases are now uniformly available around the world on Fridays at 00:01 local time in all 45 signatory countries. Of these, 11 countries had their release music on Fridays, while the remaining markets had to switch their day of release when the new albums and singles would become available. This move effectively ends the earlier phenomenon where new music was unavailable in one country when it was legally available elsewhere. \n\nHowever, in some countries, particularly in Asia, local music repertoire will still be released on different days. For instance, in Japan domestic acts will continue to release new music on Wednesdays, two days earlier than international repertoire.\n\nThe move has changed earlier traditional days where charts were being published as the official country charts try to adapt to the new \"global day\" for releases such that they capture a full week's sales and streaming from Friday mornings to Thursday nights. The UK Top 100, for example, published by The Official Charts moved from being published on a Sunday to a Friday with the BBC moving its new Top 40 charts program from Sundays at 4 p.m. local time to Fridays at 4 p.m. local time.\n\n"}
{"id": "23679034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23679034", "title": "Great Mosque of Niono", "text": "Great Mosque of Niono\n\nThe Great Mosque of Niono is an architecturally significant mosque located in the city of Niono, in the Ségou Region of southern Mali.\n\nThe mosque was first constructed in 1948 by a team of bricklayers native to Djenne, and it today occupies 1,800 square meters. It is perhaps the most internationally recognized site in the town of Niono, having received the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 1983.\n\nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on March 19, 2008 in the Cultural category.\n"}
{"id": "6796442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6796442", "title": "Intercultural Garden", "text": "Intercultural Garden\n\nIntercultural Gardens is a project of the German Association of International Gardens (\"Internationale Gärten e.V.\"), resident in Göttingen. The project has the goal to further intercultural competence and racial integration.\n\nGardening and leisure activities in the specially created Intercultural Gardens are meant to promote social contacts between refugees, immigrants and natives. The Intercultural Gardens aim to achieve that the proclaimed solidarity with war and political refugees can be strengthened through day-to-day contacts with refugees and immigrants. Another goal is to motivate refugees and immigrants to become active and to participate. Gardens are seen as an ideal location because immigrants and refugees often come from small farming communities and were unable to apply their farming knowledge in Germany. The Intercultural Gardens consist of parcels of land on which vegetables and herbs, including herbs of the immigrants' countries of origin, can be grown and of jointly used space for children, community events and meetings.\n\nActivities in the gardens are also seen as a foundation for further activities. For example, vocational orientation and integration in the areas of garden design and environmental protection through visits and internships in businesses in these areas. Social integration is promoted through neighborly help and family care, teaching of the German language and help in contacting educational institutions as well as documentation and public relations.\n\nThe projects was founded in 1996, partially on the initiative of in-migrated families. The association was founded in 1998. Initially the project had three gardens in Göttingen. In the beginning of 2006 the initial project in Göttingen had about 300 members from about twenty countries and the movement consisted of thirty independent garden projects and more were being created. The foundation \"Stiftung Interkultur\" in Munich coordinates and supports garden projects all over Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12696733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12696733", "title": "Intersection for the Arts Literary Series", "text": "Intersection for the Arts Literary Series\n\nThe Intersection for the Arts Literary Series is the longest running literary series outside of an academic institution in the state of California. Organized and maintained by Intersection for the Arts in San Francisco, the literary series presents regular readings by emerging local writers and prominent authors.\n\nIn recent years, Intersection for the Arts has included an Independent Press Spotlight as part of their literary series, allowing editors from San Francisco literary magazines and independent publishers to talk about their work alongside readings from local authors. Publishers featured in the Independent Press Spotlight include\nAK Press\nThe Believer\nCity Lights Publishers,\nColorLines Magazine,\nFourteen Hills,\nHeyday Books,\nLiP Magazine,\nManic D Press,\nMcSweeney's,\nMercury House,\nNew American Writing,\nSwitchback,\nTachyon Publications,\nUniversity of California Press,\nand ZYZZYVA.\n\nHundreds of authors have read at Intersection since the series began. In the last ten years, some of the more recognizable names include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51709650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51709650", "title": "Jesuitenmission", "text": "Jesuitenmission\n\nJesuitenmission, the mission arm of the Society of Jesus in Germany, directs its assistance to the German Jesuit foreign missions, mainly in India, East Timor, China, and Zimbabwe. Pursuing the service of faith and promotion of justice, its works include combating poverty, refugee assistance, education, health, ecology, human rights and pastoral work, while fostering dialogue between cultures and religions. The work extends to posting of volunteers and political advocacy, as in its campaign \"Tax against poverty: FTT\". A sampling of projects it has fostered and subsidized is given below.\n\nThe Diocese of Chinhoyi, founded by German Jesuits and regularly under Jesuit Bishops, provides education, health care, and social assistance for a destitute rural population. In every parish there are different groups, guilds, and small Christian communities that make up the pastoral and social network of neighborhood assistance for the sick, as well as for AIDS orphans, widows, and elderly who lack basic foodstuffs. Wells and storage tanks are also built to serve the people in this arid area of Zimbabwe.\n\nCurrent projects include a Tariro daycare and after-school care center for AIDS orphans, opened in 2003, now accommodating about 235 orphans.\n\nThe Jesuit Fr. Joe Arimoso founded the \"Bright Stars Soccer Academy\" in the small town of Norton near Harare to help young people who have family and school problems, giving them a sense of values such as fairness, teamwork, mutual responsibility, and duty. So far, 50 boys and 25 girls are registered in the Academy, and many receive support for school fees. For long-term viability, Arimoso launched a chicken farm; and a hair salon opened in which the girls can learn the craft and earn some income.\n\nin 2006 Jesuitenmission was instrumental in the building of Casa Ricci Social Services in Maowangdong, a leprosy rehabilitation center, which today houses over 40 lepers. Extension services from Casa Ricci assist over 4,000 leprosy patients, including infrastructural improvements in their villages: water and electricity, roads, and schools. Casa Ricci also began a low-interest loan program for replacing mud huts with new homes. Homes for orphans, with access to education, have also been provided.\n\nSince the end of the independence struggle in 2002, East Timor needs to see its educational infrastructure rebuilt with schools and well-trained teachers. Jesuiten assisted with the school in Kasait that opened in 2013. Since 2012, a facility for teacher training has been provided, with classrooms, library, and sports grounds.\n\nThe Irulars are the second largest indigenous tribe in the northern part of the state of Tamil Nadu with 210,000 members. Eighty-one percent of Irulars live below the poverty line and are in debt. Sixty-six percent are illiterate and often see no need in sending their children to school. But the Jesuits see education as the path to independence and human betterment. Evening schools have been set up in 25 villages to enhance the chances of success for schoolchildren. Also self-help groups have been founded for women to keep them out of the clutches of money-lenders.\n\nJesuitenmission also supports a number of projects in India: six kindergartens (Community Child Care Program) in Lova Ponnavolu, Gunti, M. Gadaburu, Pedapachili, Kondavedi, and Chamalavaka; two vocational schools for older teens in Rajupalem and Puthur; four health programs in Chilakavanipalem, Mahatmajipuram, Madagam, and Yercaud; and a tailoring course as a special program to help women in Kothapatnam.\n\nIn Loyola-Gymnasium in Prizren, Kosovo boys and girls learn collaborative and responsible cooperation in the young, crisis-ridden country. Young people of diverse race and religion meet, shed prejudices, and develop friendships. The promotion of girls in this predominantly Muslim country is a special focus. In 2005 Loyola-Gymnasium was opened under the direction of Jesuit Fr. Walter Happel, S.J.\n\nThe new Xavier Jesuit School in Sisophon, Cambodia, is incorporating kindergarten, primary and secondary schools, teacher training, and a kind of folk high school for residents of the surrounding villages, plus tutoring and special courses for school dropouts.\n\nThe Syrian Jesuits are supported in their local networks of assistance. Christians and Muslims visit families together, and distribute blankets, mattresses, cooking utensils, and food, while locating accommodations and teaching games to the children. Two field kitchens in Aleppo and Damascus cook daily with 16,000 meals for the families living in shelters. Due to the escalating violence some of the programs are interrupted.\n\n"}
{"id": "299650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299650", "title": "Jon Krakauer", "text": "Jon Krakauer\n\nJon Krakauer (born April 12, 1954) is an American writer and mountaineer, primarily known for his writings about the outdoors, especially mountain climbing. He is the author of best-selling non-fiction books—\"Into the Wild\", \"Into Thin Air\", \"Under the Banner of Heaven\", and \"\"—as well as numerous magazine articles. He was a member of an ill-fated expedition to summit Mount Everest in 1996, one of the deadliest disasters in the history of climbing Everest.\n\nKrakauer was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, as the third of five children of Carol Ann (née Jones) and Lewis Joseph Krakauer. His father was Jewish and his mother was a Unitarian, of Scandinavian descent. He was raised in Corvallis, Oregon, from the age of two. His father introduced the young Krakauer to mountaineering at the age of eight. He competed in tennis at Corvallis High School, and graduated in 1972. He went on to study at Hampshire College in Massachusetts, where in 1976 he received his degree in Environmental Studies. In 1977, he met former climber Linda Mariam Moore, and they married in 1980. They lived in Seattle, Washington, but moved to Boulder, Colorado after the release of Krakauer's book \"Into Thin Air\".\n\nAfter graduating from college, Krakauer spent three weeks alone in the wilderness of the Stikine Icecap region of Alaska and climbed a new route on the Devils Thumb, an experience he described in \"Eiger Dreams\" and in \"Into the Wild. \" In 1992, he made his way to Cerro Torre in the Andes of Patagonia—a sheer granite peak considered to be one of the most difficult technical climbs in the world.\n\nKrakauer's most recognized climb was a guided ascent of Mount Everest that became known as the 1996 Mount Everest disaster. Soon after summitting the peak, Krakauer's team met with disaster as four of his teammates (including group leader Rob Hall) perished while making their descent in the middle of a storm.\n\nA candid recollection of the event was published in \"Outside\" magazine and, later, in the book \"Into Thin Air\". By the end of the 1996 climbing season, fifteen people had died on the mountain, making it the deadliest single year in Everest history to that point. This has been exceeded by the sixteen deaths in the 2014 Mount Everest avalanche, and the 2015 earthquake avalanche disaster in which nineteen people were killed. Krakauer publicly criticized the commercialization of Mount Everest following this tragedy.\n\nMuch of Krakauer's popularity as a writer came from his work as a journalist for \"Outside\". In November 1983, he was able to give up his part-time work as a fisherman and carpenter to become a full-time writer. In addition to his work on mountain climbing, the topics he covered as a freelance writer varied greatly; his writing has also appeared in \"Architectural Digest\", \"National Geographic Magazine\", \"Rolling Stone\", and \"Smithsonian.\" Krakauer's 1992 book \"Eiger Dreams\" collects some of his articles written between 1982 and 1989\".\"\n\nOn assignment for \"Outside\", Krakauer wrote an article focusing on two parties during his ascent of Mt. Everest: the one he was in, led by Rob Hall, and the one led by Scott Fischer, both of which successfully guided clients to the summit but experienced severe difficulty during the descent. The storm, and, in his estimation, irresponsible choices by guides of both parties, led to a number of deaths, including both head guides. Krakauer felt the short account did not accurately cover the event, and clarified his initial statements—especially those regarding the death of Andy Harris—in \"Into Thin Air\", which also includes extensive interviews with fellow survivors.\n\n\"Eiger Dreams: Ventures Among Men and Mountains\" (1992) is a non-fiction collection of articles and essays by Jon Krakauer on mountaineering and rock climbing. It concerns a variety of topics, from ascending the Eiger \"Nordwand\" in the Swiss Alps, Denali in Alaska or K2 in the Karakoram, to the well-known rock climbers Krakauer has met on his trips, such as John Gill.\n\n\"Into the Wild\" was published in 1996 and spent two years on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller List. The book employs a non-linear narrative that documents the travels of Christopher McCandless, a young man from a well-to-do East Coast family who, in 1990, after graduating from Emory University, donated all of the money ($24,000) in his bank account to the humanitarian charity Oxfam, renamed himself \"Alexander Supertramp\", and began a journey in the American West. McCandless' remains were found in August 1992; he had died of starvation near Lake Wentitika in Denali National Park and Preserve. In the book, Krakauer draws parallels between McCandless' experiences and his own, and the experiences of other adventurers. \"Into The Wild\" was adapted into a film of the same name, which was released on September 21, 2007.\n\nIn 1997, Krakauer expanded his September 1996 \"Outside\" article into what has become his best-known book, \"Into Thin Air\". The book describes the climbing parties' experiences and the general state of Everest mountaineering at the time. Hired as a journalist by the magazine, Krakauer had participated as a client of the 1996 Everest climbing team led by Rob Hall—the team which ended up suffering the greatest casualties in the 1996 Mount Everest disaster.\n\nThe book reached the top of \"The New York Times\"' non-fiction bestseller list, was honored as \"Book of the Year\" by \"Time\" magazine, and was among three books considered for the General Non-Fiction Pulitzer Prize in 1998. The American Academy of Arts and Letters gave Krakauer an Academy Award in Literature in 1999 for his work, commenting that the writer \"combines the tenacity and courage of the finest tradition of investigative journalism with the stylish subtlety and profound insight of the born writer. His account of an ascent of Mount Everest has led to a general reevaluation of climbing and of the commercialization of what was once a romantic, solitary sport.\"\n\nKrakauer has contributed royalties from this book to the Everest '96 Memorial Fund at the Boulder Community Foundation, which he founded as a tribute to his deceased climbing partners.\n\nIn a TV-movie version of the book, Krakauer was played by Christopher McDonald. \"Everest\", a feature film based on the events of the disaster directed by Baltasar Kormákur, was released in 2015. In the film, Krakauer is portrayed by Michael Kelly. Krakauer denounced the movie, saying some of its details were fabricated and defamatory. He also expressed regret regarding Sony's rapid acquisition of the rights to the book. Director Baltasar Kormákur responded, claiming Krakauer's first-person account was not used as source material for the film, and alleged that his version of events conflicted with the plot.\n\nIn the book, Krakauer noted that Russian-Kazakhstani guide Anatoli Boukreev, Scott Fischer's top guide on the expedition, ascended the summit without supplemental oxygen, \"which didn't seem to be in [the] clients' best interest\". He also wrote that Boukreev descended from the summit several hours ahead of his clients, and that this was \"extremely unorthodox behavior for a guide\". He noted however that, once he had descended to the top camp, Boukreev was heroic in his tireless rescue attempts of the missing climbers. Five months after \"Into Thin Air\" was published, Boukreev gave his own account of the Everest disaster in the book \"The Climb\", co-written with G. Weston DeWalt.\n\nDifferences centered on what experienced mountaineers thought about the facts of Boukreev's performance. As Galen Rowell from the \"American Alpine Journal\" wrote to Krakauer, \"the fact that every one of Boukreev's clients survived without major injuries while the clients who died or received major injuries were members of your party. Could you explain how Anatoli [Boukreev]'s shortcomings as a guide led to the survival of his clients…?\" Conversely, Scott Fischer, the leader of Boukreev's team who died on the mountain, had complained continuously about Boukreev's shirking responsibility and his inability to meet the demands put upon him as the top guide—complaints documented in transcripts of radio transmissions between Fischer and his base-camp managers. After the publication of \"Into Thin Air\" and \"The Climb\", DeWalt, Boukreev, and Krakauer became embroiled in disagreements about Krakauer's portrayal of Boukreev. Krakauer had reached a with Boukreev in November 1997, but the Russian climber was killed by an avalanche only a few weeks later while climbing Annapurna.\n\nIn 2003, \"\" became Krakauer's third non-fiction bestseller. The book examines extremes of religious belief, specifically fundamentalist offshoots of Mormonism. Krakauer looks at the practice of polygamy in these offshoots and scrutinizes it in the context of the Latter Day Saints religion throughout history. Much of the focus of the book is on the Lafferty brothers, who murdered in the name of their fundamentalist faith.\n\nIn 2006, Tom Elliott and Pawel Gula produced a documentary inspired by the book, \"Damned to Heaven\".\n\nRobert Millet, Professor of Religious Understanding at Brigham Young University, an LDS institution, reviewed the book and described it as confusing, poorly organized, misleading, erroneous, prejudicial and insulting. Mike Otterson, Director of Media Relations for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS), told the Associated Press, \"This book is not history, and Krakauer is no historian. He is a storyteller who cuts corners to make the story sound good. His basic thesis appears to be that people who are religious are irrational, and that irrational people do strange things.\"\n\nIn response, Krakauer criticized the LDS Church hierarchy, citing the opinion of D. Michael Quinn, a historian who was excommunicated in 1993, who wrote that \"The tragic reality is that there have been occasions when Church leaders, teachers, and writers have not told the truth they knew about difficulties of the Mormon past, but have offered to the Saints instead a mixture of platitudes, half-truths, omissions, and plausible denials\". Krakauer wrote, \"I happen to share Dr. Quinn's perspective\".\n\nIn the October 25, 2007 season premiere of \"Iconoclasts\" on the Sundance Channel, Krakauer mentioned being deeply embroiled in the writing of a new book, but did not reveal the title, subject, or expected date of completion. Doubleday Publishing originally planned to release the book in the fall of 2008, but postponed the launch in June of that year, announcing that Krakauer was \"unhappy with the manuscript\".\n\nThe book, \"\", was released by Doubleday on September 15, 2009. It draws on the journals and letters of Pat Tillman, an NFL professional football player and U.S. Army Ranger whose death in Afghanistan made him a symbol of American sacrifice and heroism, though it also became a subject of controversy about the handling of the announcement of his death by the U.S. Army. The book draws on the journals and letters of Tillman, interviews with his wife and friends, conversations with the soldiers who served alongside him, and research Krakauer performed in Afghanistan. It also serves in part as a historical narrative, providing a general history of the civil wars in Afghanistan.\n\nWriting about the book in the \"New York Times\" book review, Dexter Filkins said that \"too many of the details of Tillman’s life recounted here are mostly banal and inconsequential\", but also stated, concerning Tillman's death, \"While most of the facts have been reported before, Krakauer performs a valuable service by bringing them all together—particularly those about the cover-up. The details, even five years later, are nauseating to read\".\n\n\"Three Cups of Deceit\" is a 2011 e-book that purports to expose mismanagement and accounting fraud committed by Greg Mortenson, the humanitarian who built schools in Pakistan and Afghanistan; and his charity, the Central Asia Institute. It was later released in paperback by Anchor Books.\n\n\"Missoula: Rape and the Justice System in a College Town\" (2015) explores how rape is handled by colleges and the criminal justice system. The book follows several case studies of women raped in Missoula, Montana, many of them linked in some way to the University of Montana. Krakauer attempts to illuminate why many victims do not want to report their rapes to the police, and he criticizes the justice system for giving the benefit of the doubt to assailants but not to victims. Krakauer was inspired to write the book when a friend of his, a young woman, revealed to him that she had been raped.\n\nEmily Bazelon, writing for the \"New York Times\" Book Review, gave the book a lukewarm review, criticizing it for not fully exploring its characters or appreciating the difficulty colleges face in handling and trying to prevent sexual assault. \"Instead of delving deeply into questions of fairness as universities try to fulfill a recent government mandate to conduct their own investigations and hearings – apart from the police and the courts – Krakauer settles for bromides,\" Bazelon wrote. \"University procedures should 'swiftly identify student offenders and prevent them from reoffending, while simultaneously safeguarding the rights of the accused,' he writes, asserting that this 'will be difficult, but it's not rocket science\".\n\n, Krakauer edits the Exploration series of the Modern Library.\n\nKrakauer was featured during a CBS \"60 Minutes\" report on April 17, 2011 where \"60 Minutes\" reporter Steve Kroft raised questions about humanitarian Greg Mortenson and the non-profit Central Asia Institute (CAI). Krakauer questioned the accuracy of events in Mortenson's book \"Three Cups of Tea\" and whether Mortenson was kidnapped by the Taliban in 1996 as described in his second book, \"Stones into Schools\". Krakauer went on to question Mortenson's credibility through the financial practices of CAI. Krakauer had been a financial supporter of Mortenson's work and had previously donated $75,000 before becoming disillusioned with him and his management of CAI. The \"60 Minutes\" story largely retraced the conclusions Krakauer came to as described in his e-book, \"Three Cups of Deceit – How Greg Mortenson, Humanitarian Hero, Lost His Way\". The e-book was released the day after the \"60 Minutes\" piece aired.\n\nScott Darsney, a respected mountaineer and friend of Greg Mortenson, wrote a response to Krakauer's allegations that was published as an exclusive article in \"Outside\" magazine's online version. Darnsey's response questioned the accuracy and fairness of both the Krakauer piece and the \"60 Minutes\" report. He further stated that Krakauer either misquoted or misunderstood what he said when interviewed by the author. Darnsey went on to say that Krakauer took Mortenson's experiences in Afghanistan and Pakistan out of context and added, \"If Jon Krakauer and some of Greg's detractors had taken the time to have three or more cups of tea with Greg and others—instead of one cup of tea with a select few who would discredit him—they would have found some minor problems and transgressions. But to the extent to call it all 'lies' and 'fraud'? No way.\" Darnsey stated in reference to the possibility that Mortenson has been dishonest in his financial dealings through CAI, \"If Greg is misappropriating funds, then show me the luxury cars, fancy boats, and closets full of shoes. This is not a \"ministry\" or a business gone corrupt.\" The \"Outside\" article also touched on the allegations that Mortenson lied about being held captive by the Taliban. In light of that controversy, Darnsey stated, \"Greg recounted to me his imprisonment in Waziristan when I met him in Beijing. I don't doubt that he was held against his will.\" Darnsey's article went on to say that Krakauer is a respected journalist and a \"stickler for details and getting the facts straight\", but that he felt \"the research needs to continue\".\n\nIn February 2012, it was reported that an investigation by the Montana Attorney General was underway.\n\nOn April 5, 2012, the Montana Attorney General's office released a report noting financial \"missteps\" by CAI and Greg Mortenson. The Attorney General reached a settlement for restitution from Mortenson to CAI in excess of $1 million.\n\nAccording to the May 3, 2013 issue of \"The Los Angeles Times\", the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco upheld the 2012 federal dismissal by Judge Samuel Haddon in Montana, stating he had ruled in accordance to the laws and rules governing class action suits. Haddon ruled correctly that readers were not entitled to financial compensation based on any of the arguments presented by the plaintiffs. The suit was filed days after the publication of the above titled book, as well as the \"60 Minutes\" presentation.\n\nAccording to Central Asia Institute's Board chairman, Steve Barrett, announced on October 9, 2013, that the CAI and Mortenson have fully complied with all the specific actions and repayments as negotiated by the settlement with then Attorney General (now Governor) Steve Bullock.\n\nJournalists Jennifer Jordan and Jeff Rhoads began investigating the claims against Mortenson and made a 2016 documentary \"3000 Cups of Tea\". In the film and interviews Jordan claims that the accusations against Mortenson put forward by \"60 Minutes\" and Jon Krakauer are largely not true. Jordan said in 2014: \"We are still investigating this story. So far, our findings are indicating that the majority of the allegations are grossly misrepresented to make him appear in the worst possible light, or are outright false. Yes, Greg is a bad manager and accountant, and he is the first to admit that, but he is also a tireless humanitarian with a crucially important mission.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12441518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12441518", "title": "Jonas (TV series)", "text": "Jonas (TV series)\n\nJonas, also known as Jonas L.A., is a Disney Channel Original Series created by Michael Curtis and Roger S. H. Schulman, starring the Jonas Brothers. The pilot was filmed in September 2008, the series premiered on Disney Channel on May 2, 2009, and became available on demand starting on April 25, 2009.\n\n\"Jonas\" is the first Disney Channel Original Series since \"Phil of the Future\" not to be shot on videotape in a multi-camera format, be filmed before a live studio audience, or use a laugh track. The series was the first on the network to premiere on a Saturday night, part of a deliberate strategy by Disney to open up the night to original programming.\n\nOn November 9, 2009, it was announced that \"Jonas\" was being picked up for a second season. On May 5, 2010, it was revealed that the name of the series was changed to \"Jonas L.A.\", reflecting the move to Los Angeles, making it the first Disney Channel sitcom to have the show's main setting change during the course of the series. The second season premiered on June 20, 2010 and ended on October 3, 2010. In November 2010, Disney Channel announced the series was canceled after two seasons.\n\nShortly after the Jonas Brothers guest starred on the \"Hannah Montana\" episode \"Me and Mr. Jonas and Mr. Jonas and Mr. Jonas\", development for a TV series and Disney Channel Original Movie called \"Camp Rock\" starring the Jonas Brothers began.\n\nThe original concept for the TV series was about the band playing concerts as a cover while working as government secret agents to save the world and was entitled \"Jonas\" (an acronym which stood for \"Junior Operatives Networking as Spies\"). At the same time, they tried to hide their double lives from their mother and Frankie. Meanwhile, Stella, ignorant of the Jonas' double lives, dated each of the famous brothers without informing the others and reported the details in her teen magazine column. Said Staub, \"So pretty much the entire show, it's all of us lying to each other, and kind of everything backfiring, and us getting caught in awkward situations.\" She described the concept as, \"like \"The Monkees\" and a little of bit of \"Mr. & Mrs. Smith\". There's going to be fun action sequences and still be a sitcom\".\n\nThe \"Jonas\" pilot was shot in 2007, but the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike impeded progress. However, Disney Channel Asia aired it during the Sneak Peak 2008. Instead, Disney Channel filmed a mini reality show, the 2008 Disney Channel Original Short Series \"\", which followed the Jonas Brothers on a concert tour and premiered May 16. A few weeks later on June 20, 2008, the Disney Channel Original Movie \"Camp Rock\", in which the brothers starred as the fictional band \"Connect 3\", debuted. The Jonas Brothers also released \"\", a Disney Digital 3-D concert film. \"After this rush of releases, the Jonas Brothers became too popular to imagine them as anything but more dramatic versions of themselves,\" explained executive producer Michael Curtis. \"The spy concept was very big and very ambitious and it started to not feel quite right. As the band got bigger and bigger, doing a show that captured more of their real lives and trying to turn that into a more grounded, real version of what they might be doing became more interesting to do and more fun to do.\". \"It is now about us being a band and balancing a normal life,\" Nick Jonas told Access Hollywood. The title of the series changed from \"J.O.N.A.S.\" to \"JONAS\", dropping the acronym but remaining in all capitals.\n\nProducers have drawn connections between \"Jonas\" and productions by earlier bands. Show creator and producer Roger S. H. Schulman claims that \"It's hard not to make parallel comparisons to The Beatles in 1962 and 1963 when you see the kind of response that the Jonas Brothers' fans have to them,\" and describes the 1964 \"A Hard Day's Night\" and 1965 \"Help!\" as \"very much a template\" for the series. Producers and critics have also compared the series to \"The Monkees\", a popular but short-lived mid-1960s television comedy also following a real life band. At the Television Critics Association winter press tour in January 2009, Gary Marsh, entertainment president of Disney Channel Worldwide, described \"Jonas\" as a cross between \"The Monkees\" and \"Flight of the Conchords\". The \"Chicago Sun-Times\" remarks that Joe Jonas parallels \"goofy Micky Dolenz\", Kevin Jonas \"quirky Michael Nesmith\", and Nick Jonas \"dreamy Davy Jones\". The Jonas Brothers reportedly watched episodes of \"The Partridge Family\" and \"The Monkees\" \"for literally three days straight\" for inspiration.\n\n\n\nSeason 1\n\nSeason 2\n\nThe series was originally set in New Jersey, before the setting changed to Los Angeles for the second season and was shot at Hollywood Center Studios, which has also been the home to several other Disney Channel sitcoms over the years including \"The Suite Life on Deck\" and \"Wizards of Waverly Place\". As of November 2010, \"Jonas L.A.\" was the only live-action Disney Channel Original Series, produced by It's a Laugh Productions, not filmed before a live studio audience.\n\nDisney Channel has officially announced, in November 2010, that \"Jonas L.A.\" will not return. They mentioned that they will be working with the Jonas Brothers in the future.\n\nNicole Anderson also auditioned for the role of Stella, but actress Chelsea Staub ended up winning the part. According to Staub, her previous work with director Sean McNamara helped her land the role. After the series plot changed, producers decided to create a best friend for Stella and offered Anderson, Staub's real life best friend, the role of Macy.\n\n\"Jonas\" was intended to star Kevin, Nick, and Joe Jonas, who lend their first names to their television counterparts. The role of Frankie Lucas was also created with Frankie Jonas in mind. In addition, Robert \"Big Rob\" Feggans, the Jonas Brothers real-life head of security, plays The Big Man, the JONAS bodyguard.\n\nThe series originally premiered on May 22, 2009 on Disney Channel. It premiered on June 12, 2009 on Family Channel, on June 15, 2009 on Disney Channel (Australia and New Zealand) as well as on TV2 in New Zealand on April 17, 2010, on August 9, 2009 on Disney Channel (Southeast Asia), on September 11, 2009 on Disney Channel (UK and Ireland), on October 10, 2009 on Disney Channel (Europe, Middle East and Africa), an on November 30, 2009 on Disney Channel (India).\n\nThe second season originally premiered on June 20, 2010. It premiered on July 23, 2010 in Canada, on September 6, 2010 in Australia, on the same date in New Zealand and on May 31, 2012 on TV2, on October 23, 2010 in Southeast Asia, on August 13, 2010 in the UK and Ireland, and on September 18, 2010 in South Africa.\n\nOn August 23, September 6, September 20, three volumes making up the entire first season of \"JONAS\" were released on Region 2 DVD in the United Kingdom and Region 4 in Australia. The volumes include new cover arts and different titles for both volumes released in the U.S. (previously \"\"I Heart Jonas\" & \"Rockin' The House\"). The three new titles being, \"Rockstars In the House\" \"Ready To Rock\" and \"Keeping It Real\"\", with episodes released in airing order.\n\nDisney Interactive Studios released a video game based on the series for the Nintendo DS console system. It was released on November 10, 2009 in America. The game is based on many of the sets used in the TV show. The player can play as any of the brothers, play 6 concerts, and juggle school.\n\nThe game was not well received, mainly due to shoddy graphics and bad gameplay, as stated on IGN, only earning an average score of 4.0 (out of ten.)\n\nJonas is a soundtrack by the American pop rock group Jonas Brothers featured the songs from the first season of \"Jonas L.A.\". The soundtrack was never released. Only the songs from the second season were included in the official soundtrack, \"Jonas L.A.\". Some songs from the first season were never leaked or released complete.\n\n\n\"Jonas\" received mixed to negative reviews for its premiere. Ken Tucker of \"Entertainment Weekly\" called the show \"\"The Monkees\" for millennials\" and enjoyed the featured Jonas Brothers music. \"Variety\" magazine reviewer Brian Lowry believed that Jonas Brothers' adorers would be pleased with the result, and that those who are not fans would still find an amiable charm within the series. Paige Wiser of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" found the series better than \"Hannah Montana\", but commented that Nick Jonas's reserved nature made him the weak link of the premiere episode and that the boys' amateur acting is \"endearing until they play a scene opposite someone with real comedic timing – like John Ducey.\" \"The New York Times\"' John Carmanica was also disappointed with Nick's performance, particularly because, according to Carmanica, he gives off the savviest air in the band's off screen life. Carmanica also criticizes the series' script as blithe, unfunny, and \"seeded with profound cynicism\", but praised the believable fraternal interactions and Kevin Jonas's acting.\n\nThe series was the first series on Disney Channel to premiere on a Saturday night, part of a deliberate strategy by Disney to open up the night to original programming and compete with Nickelodeon's traditional dominance of the evening. The show was paired with the established series \"Wizards of Waverly Place\", which moved from a Sunday early evening timeslot, in the 8 p.m. (Eastern Time) slot. The series debuted on Disney Channel on May 2, 2009, and drew a solid 4.00 million viewers in the US, 73% of which was female. While this amounted to Disney Channel's best ratings in the time slot in eight months, it was also Disney Channel's second-lowest rated live-action series premiere in nearly four years. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" comments that \"Jonas didn't do poorly, exactly. [...] It's just that one expects the premiere of a show by a heavily promoted major Disney brand like the Jonas Brothers to make a bigger splash.\"\n\nViewership for the series second episode the following week fell sharply to nearly half its premiere audience—2.2 million total U.S. viewers and beyond cable's Top 100, which notes \"in the grand scheme of things, is still a very good showing - unless you're trying to live up to the media's expectations for a world famous act.\" E! credits the decline to the premiere of Nickelodeon's hour-long \"iCarly\" special, \"iDate a Bad Boy\", which earned 6.5 million viewers. Ratings improved over the following episodes, and the \"New York Times\" reported, \"If \"Jonas\" can dent ratings for \"iCarly\" […] the brothers’ sitcom will be considered a big success internally. However, just weeks after its premiere Disney Channel moved \"Jonas\" and \"Wizards of Waverly Place\" to Sunday and Friday evenings, respectively, and began airing movies in its old timeslot. In its Sunday timeslot, \"Jonas\" has been doing well in key kids demographics and averaging 3.4 million viewers.\n\nHowever, the move to Sundays and Fridays and declining ratings, along with the change in setting and ill-fated strategies in promoting the show would result in Disney's decision to pull the plug on \"Jonas L.A.\" On November 8, 2010, it announced that the show will not return for a third season. In a statement from a Disney Channel spokesperson: \"We've been fortunate to work with the enormously talented Jonas Brothers on several projects, including the Emmy-nominated series JONAS L.A.,\" adding that \"We look forward to working with them on new projects in the future.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46644915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46644915", "title": "Lake Placid (film series)", "text": "Lake Placid (film series)\n\nLake Placid is an American series of monster horror/comedy films created by David E. Kelley. It began with \"Lake Placid\" in 1999 and spawned five made for television sequels, \"Lake Placid 2\" (2007), \"Lake Placid 3\" (2010), \"\" (2012), \"Lake Placid vs. Anaconda\" (2015) (the latter being a crossover with the \"Anaconda\" series) and \"\" (2018). \n\nEach installment revolves around the presence of giant, 30-foot-long man-eating crocodiles in the fictional location of Black Lake, Maine, and the efforts of various groups to capture or destroy the creatures. All of the films reference members of the fictitious \"Bickerman\" family.\n\nA group attempts to destroy a giant, 30-foot-long man-eating crocodile, which terrorizes Black Lake, Maine.\n\nIn the sequel to the feature film, man-eating crocodiles return to the lake as two males and one aggressive female crocodile, which is protecting her nest, wreak havoc on the locals.\n\nA game warden moves his family to Lake Placid, once the site of deadly crocodile attacks. Locals assure him the crocs are gone, but his mischievous young son finds a few baby crocs and begins feeding them. They quickly grow into very big adults and start attacking the game warden's family and nearby town.\n\nReba the poacher is back, now an EPA agent. Black Lake is turned into a crocodile sanctuary surrounded by an electric fence. When the fence gets left open one night, a high-school field trip bus unknowingly enters the park. It's up to Reba and the sheriff to save the kids from becoming crocodile chow.\n\nIn Black Lake, Maine, an accident allows the two giant species, crocodiles and anacondas to be regenerated and they escape towards Clear Lake. Now, Reba teams up with Tully to find his daughter Bethany and a group of sorority girls in a deadly match between the two creatures.\n\nA group of young explorers discover a secret area hidden from all maps and GPS devices. When they reach the center of the lake, they discover an abandoned facility that houses one of the largest, and deadliest apex-predators known to man. This is a direct sequel to the original film, which ignores the events to the previous films and the only film in the series to not feature or reference the Bickerman family.\n\n\"Croc Drop\" is an interactive game produced in 1999 to promote the film \"Lake Placid\" from the same year.\n\n\"Lake Placid 2: Croc Alley\" is an interactive game produced in 2007 to promote the film \"Lake Placid 2\" from the same year.\n"}
{"id": "431577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431577", "title": "Laksa", "text": "Laksa\n\nLaksa is a spicy noodle soup popular in Peranakan cuisine. Laksa consists of rice noodles or rice vermicelli with chicken, prawn or fish, served in spicy soup based on either rich and spicy curry coconut milk or on sour \"asam\" (tamarind or \"gelugur\"). Laksa is found in Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, and Southern Thailand.\n\nThere are various theories about the origins of laksa. In Indonesia, the dish is believed to have been born from the Chinese coastal settlements and the mixing of cultures between Chinese merchants and the local cooking practices. Historians believe laksa is a dish that was born from actual intermarriage. In early coastal \"pecinan\" (Chinese settlement) in maritime Southeast Asia, it was only Chinese men that ventured abroad out from China to trade. When settling down in the new town, these Chinese traders and sailors set out to find local wives, and these women began incorporating local spices and coconut milk into Chinese noodle soup served to their husbands. This creates the hybrid Chinese-local (Malay or Javanese) culture called Peranakan culture. As Peranakan Chinese communities have blended their ancestors' culture with local culture, Peranakan communities in different places now demonstrate diversity according to the local flavour. \n\nIn Malaysia, the dish is believed to have been introduced by Chinese immigrants in Malacca. In Singapore, the dish (or its local \"Katong\" version) is believed to have been created after interaction between the Peranakans with the local Singaporeans.\n\nBecause laksa has different varieties across the region, it is difficult to pinpoint the exact origin of the dish. Nevertheless, numbers of laksa recipes has been developed along the trade channels of Southeast Asia—where the ports of Penang, Medan, Malacca, Singapore, Palembang, and Batavia (now Jakarta) are the major stops along the historic spice route. The intensive trade links among these port cities enables exchanges of ideas to took place, including sharing recipes.\n\nVarious recipes of laksas have gained popularity in Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia; and subsequently international recognition. Initially in July 2011, CNN Travel ranked Penang Asam Laksa 7th out of the 50 most delicious foods in the world. Its rank however, fell to number 26th after CNN held an online poll by 35,000 people, published in September 2011. Singaporean Curry Laksa on the other hand ranked in number 44th.\n\nIn Indonesia, laksa is one of the traditional comfort foods; the spicy warm noodle soup is much appreciated during cold rainy days. However, its popularity is somewhat overshadowed by \"soto\", a similar hearty warm soup dish, which is often consumed with rice instead of noodles. In modern households, it is common practice to mix and match the recipes of laksas; if traditional laksa noodle is not available, Japanese udon noodles might be used instead.\n\nThe type of laksa is based upon the soup base employed in its recipe; either rich and savoury coconut milk, fresh and sour \"asam\" (tamarind, \"gelugur\" or \"kokum\"), or the combination of the two. There are three basic types of laksa: \"curry laksa\", \"asam laksa\", and other variant that can be identified as either curry or asam laksa. Curry laksa is a coconut milk curry soup with noodles, while asam laksa is a sour, most often tamarind-based, soup with noodles. Thick rice noodles also known as laksa noodles are most commonly used, although thin rice vermicelli (\"bee hoon\" or \"mee hoon\") are also common, and some recipes might create their own rice noodle from scratch. Some variants might use other types of noodles; Johor laksa for example uses spaghetti, while a fusion recipe might use Japanese udon noodle.\n\nCurry laksa (in many places referred to simply as \"laksa\") is a coconut-based curry soup. The main ingredients for most versions of curry laksa include bean curd puffs, fish sticks, shrimp, and cockles. Some vendors may sell chicken laksa. Laksa is commonly served with a spoonful of \"sambal\" chilli paste and garnished with Vietnamese coriander, or \"laksa leaf\", which is known in Malay as \"daun kesum\".\n\nThis is usually known as curry mee in Penang rather than curry laksa, due to the different kind of noodles used (yellow \"mee\" or \"bee hoon\", as opposed to the thick white laksa noodles). Curry mee in Penang uses congealed pork blood, a delicacy to the Malaysian Chinese community.\n\nThe term \"curry laksa\" is more commonly used in Kuala Lumpur and Singapore. Laksa is quite popular in Singapore, and curry laksa or \"nyonya\" laksa can be simply served as plain laksa, with just noodles and gravy, or with additional ingredients. Singaporean curry laksa ranked in number 44th of CNN World's 50 best foods. Recently, several modern twist of curry laksa has been developed, such as laksa \"yong tau foo\" which is stuffed tofu laksa, and a premium upgrade of lobster laksa.\n\nIn Indonesia, most of laksa variants are coconut milk-based soup, thus can be categorized into curry laksa. Common spices include turmeric, coriander, candlenut, lemongrass, garlic, shallot, and pepper cooked in coconut milk. Widely available \"daun kemangi\" (Indonesian lemon basil leaf) is commonly used instead of \"daun kesum\". \"Bihun\" or thin rice vermicelli is most commonly used noodle instead of thick rice noodle, and some recipe might add slices of \"ketupat\" or \"lontong\" rice cake. Bogor laksa uses ground \"oncom\" into its soup.\n\nVariants of curry Laksa include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAsam laksa is a sour, fish and tamarind-based soup. Penang Asam Laksa listed at number 26th on \"World's 50 most delicious foods\" compiled by \"CNN Go\" in 2011. \"Asam\" is the Malay word for any ingredients that makes a dish tastes sour (e.g. tamarind, \"gelugur\" or kokum). Laksa typically uses \"asam keping\", known as kokum in the English speaking world, which is a type of dried slices of sour mangosteens. The modern Malay spelling is \"asam\", though the spelling \"assam\" is still frequently used.\n\nThe main ingredients for asam laksa include shredded fish, normally \"kembung\" (small mackerel of the Rastrelliger genus), and finely sliced vegetables including cucumber, onions, red chillies, pineapple, lettuce, common mint, \"daun kesum\" (Vietnamese mint or laksa mint), and pink \"bunga kantan\" (torch ginger). Asam laksa is normally served with either thick rice noodles or thin rice noodles (vermicelli). And topped off with \"petis udang\" or \"hae ko\" (蝦膏), a thick sweet prawn/shrimp paste.\n\nVariants of asam laksa include:\n\n\nSeveral variants might combines both coconut milk and tamarind, fish, chicken, and prawn, thus can be identified as either curry or asam laksa.\n\n\n\nThe general differences between \"curry laksa\", \"asam laksa\", and \"Sarawak laksa\" are as follows:\n\nLaksa is simply referred to or ordered at a restaurant as laksa (curry laksa) or asam laksa. By default, laksa means the standard curry laksa while asam laksa refers to the standard Penang version. If a restaurant serves a non-standard version, the restaurant will qualify the laksa by the version being sold. For example, a restaurant serving Katong laksa will list Katong laksa on the menu.\n\n\nLaksa paste to cook laksa can be purchased from supermarkets. Laksa flavoured instant noodles are also available at supermarkets.\n\nIn 2009, as part of a national food branding exercise, Malaysian Minister of Tourism Ng Yen Yen attempted to claim ownership for regional dishes such as Laksa, Hainanese Chicken Rice, and Bak Kut Teh, claiming that others have \"hijacked their dishes\". This led to discontent with its regional neighbours. Ng later clarified that she was misquoted on her intention to patent the foods, and that a study on the origins of the foods would be conducted \"and an apology conveyed if it was wrongly claimed.\" To date, the results of the study has not been made public.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "194010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194010", "title": "Las Posadas", "text": "Las Posadas\n\nLas Posadas is a novenario (nine days of religious observance) celebrated chiefly in Latin America, Mexico, Guatemala, Cuba, and by Hispanics in the United States, beginning 16 December and ending 24 December.\nLas Posadas is celebrated by Latinos and Spaniards and people who appreciate the culture and holiday of the Mexican and Spanish.\n\n\"Las Posadas\" is Spanish for \"lodging\", or \"accommodation\", which in this case refers to the inn in the story of the nativity of Jesus. It uses the plural form as the celebration lasts for a nine-day interval (called the \"novena\") during the Christmas season. The novena represents the nine-month pregnancy of Mary, the mother of Jesus celebrated by Christians.\n\nThe celebration has been a tradition in Mexico for 400 years. Many Mexican holidays include dramatizations of original events, a tradition which has its roots in the ritual of Bible plays used to teach religious doctrine to a largely illiterate population in Europe as early as the 10th and 11th centuries. These plays lost favor with the Church as they became popularized with the addition of folk music and other non-religious elements, and were eventually banned; only to be re-introduced in the sixteenth century by two Spanish saints as the Christmas Pageant, a new kind of religious ceremony to accompany the Christmas holiday.\n\nIn Mexico, the winter solstice festival was one of the most important celebrations of the year and it was on December 12 according to the Julian calendar used by the Spaniards until 1582. According to the Aztec calendar, Tonantzin Guadalupe (the beloved mother of the gods) was celebrated on the winter solstice, and she is still celebrated today on December 12; while their most important deity, the sun god \"Huitzilopochtli,\" was born during the month of December (\"panquetzaliztli)\". The parallel in time between this native celebration and the birth of Christ lent itself to an almost seamless merging of the two holidays. Seeing the opportunity to proselytize, Spanish missionaries brought the custom of the re-invented religious pageant to Mexico, where they used it to teach the story of Jesus' birth to Mexico's people. In 1586, Friar Diego de Soria obtained a papal bull from Pope Sixtus V, stating that a Christmas Mass (\"misa de Aguinaldo\"), be observed as novenas on the nine days preceding Christmas Day throughout Mexico.\n\nWhile its roots are in Catholicism, even Protestant Latinos follow the tradition. It may have been started in the 15th century by Friar Pedro de Gante. It may have been started by early friars who combined Spanish Catholicism with the December Aztec celebration of the birth of Huitzilopochtli. The Las Posadas text and ritual are also strongly identified throughout the Rio Grande with converso settlers. For more information see Song From a Withered Limb in the journal HaLapid, Autumn/Winter 2015. also found here: https://cryptojewisheducation.com/2016/09/05/song-from-a-withered-limb-las-posadas-and-the-converso-crisis-of-the-16th-century/\n\nTwo people dress up as Mary and Joseph. Certain houses are designated to be an \"inn\" (thus the name \"Posada\"). The head of the procession will have a candle inside a paper lampshade. At each house, the resident responds by singing a song and Mary and Joseph are finally recognized and allowed to enter. Once the \"innkeepers\" let them in, the group of guests come into the home and kneel around the Nativity scene to pray (typically, the Rosary). Latin American countries have continued to celebrate this holiday to this day, with very few changes to the tradition. In some places, the final location may be a church instead of a home. The people asking for posada travel to 1 house each night for 8 nights.\n\nIndividuals may actually play the various parts of Mary (María) and Joseph with the expectant mother riding a real donkey (burro), with attendants such as angels and shepherds acquired along the way, or the pilgrims may carry images of the holy personages instead. Children may carry poinsettias. The procession will be followed by musicians, with the entire procession singing posadas such as pedir posada.\nAt the end of each night's journey, there will be Christmas carols (\"villancicos\"), children will break open star-shaped piñatas to obtain candy and fruit hidden inside, and there will be a feast. Piñatas are traditionally made out of clay. It is expected to meet all the invitees in a previous procession.\nIn Wisconsin, the procession may occur within a home, rather than outside, because of the weather.\n\nOne event in Portland, Oregon finishes with Santa Claus and Christmas gifts donated for needy children.\n\nIn New York, worshippers may drink Atole, a corn-sugar drink traditional during Christmas.\n\nA large procession occurs along the San Antonio River Walk and has been held since 1966. It is held across large landmarks in San Antonio, Texas, including the Arneson River Theater, Museo Alameda, and the Spanish Governor's Palace, ending at the Cathedral of San Fernando.\n\nIn the Philippines, where strong cultural influences persist from Spanish colonial times, the Posadas tradition is illustrated by the Panunulúyan pageant. Sometimes it is performed immediately before the Misa de Gallo (Midnight Mass), sometimes on each of the nine nights. The main difference from Mexico is that actors are used for Mary and Joseph instead of statues, and sing the requests for accommodation. The lines of the \"innkeepers\" are also often sung, but sometimes these respond without singing. Another difference is that the lyrics are not in Spanish but in a local language, such as Tagalog.\n\nIn Nicaragua the older generations grew up celebrating posadas but somehow they became extinct in big cities by the 60's. However, there is a major holiday in Nicaragua called (The Shoutings), on 7 December in honor of La Purísima Virgen (The Purest Virgin). The Purisima originated in Leon in the 1600s with Franciscan monks but the celebration spread quickly throughout the country. By the 1800s it became a national holiday and today it has become a tradition wherever Nicaraguans have emigrated to such places such as Costa Rica, Honduras, Miami, Houston, Los Angeles and San Francisco. The Purisima starts at noon on December 7 with major fireworks throughout the country. Then at about 6:00pm more fireworks announce the time when adults and children go out around their neighborhoods or towns with burlap sacks in hand visiting different, beautifully crafted altars while caroling the Virgin Mary. In exchange for singing people receive sweets, refreshments, fruit and toys. The celebration goes on well into the night. Finally at midnight the most outstanding fireworks in the shape of Mary, stars and angels begin, lasting for half an hour.\n\nCuba also has something similar, called Parrandas (though Parrandas has more of a Carnaval in atmosphere). The tradition began in the 19th century when Father Francisco Vigil de Quiñones, the priest of the Grand Cathedral of Remedios, in order to get the people to come to midnight masses the week before Christmas had the idea to put together groups of children and provide them with jars, plates and spoons so they could run around the village making noise and singing verses. The idea persisted over the years and with time it gained complexity ending in the street party that has remained till these days.\n\nIn Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador, families and friends get together from 16 to 24 December to pray the novena of aguinaldos.\n\n"}
{"id": "53705827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53705827", "title": "Learning level descriptors", "text": "Learning level descriptors\n\nLearning level descriptors are statements that provide a broad indication of learning appropriate to attainment at a particular level, describing the characteristics and context of learning expected at that level. They are designed to support the reviewing of specified learning outcomes and assessment criteria in order to develop particular modules and units and to assign credits at the appropriate level.\n\nIn this context, \"level\" refers to the level at which the outcomes of learning are allocated through the use of descriptors which constitute an integral component of qualifications frameworks internationally. Learning level descriptors are an integral part of qualifications frameworks regionally, nationally, and globally, but also consider how the level of learning is determined in other contexts, such as longitudinal studies, international competence assessments and diagnostic reviews.\n\nLearning level descriptors vary across qualifications frameworks, and understanding the similarities and differences is the first step in establishing world reference levels for learning.\n\nDescriptors are formulated using learning outcomes language, yet they are divided into different domains based on specific contextual decisions. These domains are mostly referred to as sets of like competences which describe progression across the levels.\n\nAll types of qualifications frameworks use level descriptors based on learning outcomes, to define a set of hierarchical levels across a series of domains. The hierarchy of level descriptors is purposefully developed to allow for alignment of qualifications:\n\n\"Each of these unique learning outcome terms is defined in statements of knowledge, skill and competence. They are assembled in vertical strands for each framework level. The use of strands of learning outcomes and levels in a qualifications framework helps improve the hierarchical and distinguishing characteristics applicable between levels as well as within a level. It provides those designing qualifications with a finely drawn vertical and horizontal structure (grid) to facilitate easy alignment.\"\n\nQualifications are compared against the level descriptors and pegged at a particular level of a qualifications framework. To be more specific, the learning outcomes contained within a qualification are compared with the learning outcomes listed in the level descriptors. P. 49-51\n\nThe pragmatic approach that underlies the current understandings of level descriptors has resulted in a weak theoretical model that will take many years to be improved. While level descriptors may be important to standards developers, stakeholders are interested in levels, not level descriptors. Level descriptors are sometimes criticized for being too broad and generic to be applicable to a specific qualification from a specific sector. The defense has been that level descriptors are not an exact science, but only provide guidance with regard to levels.\n"}
{"id": "797282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797282", "title": "Liquid Snake", "text": "Liquid Snake\n\nRaised in the United Kingdom following his birth, Liquid served as an operative for the British SAS and later became the field commander of FOXHOUND before the events of the game. He leads the hostile takeover of Shadow Moses Island in order to acquire Big Boss's remains and use his genetic information to treat the mutations affecting his subordinates, the Genome Army. Liquid harbors a strong resentment towards his twin brother Solid Snake, as he mistakenly believes that Snake received all of Big Boss's superior genes, while he was given only the flawed genes. In reality, it is Liquid who carries the superior genes.\n\nSnake meets Liquid for the first time after he is taken captive by the enemy and imprisoned in a medical room. The two brothers battle each other multiple times throughout the story. First, Liquid tries to kill Snake by piloting a Hind D and pursuing him across the Communication Towers, but Snake destroys the helicopter with anti-air Stinger missiles. Afterward, Liquid manipulates Snake into activating Metal Gear REX by disguising himself as Snake's mentor Master Miller. Snake destroys REX, but falls unconscious in the aftermath, allowing Liquid to take his unconscious brother to the top of the ruined REX and challenge him to a fistfight. Snake prevails, but Liquid survives again and pursues Snake in a jeep chase that results in a crash outside the island's facility. Just as he approaches a trapped Snake, Liquid suddenly succumbs to the FOXDIE virus that had been injected into his twin brother. Liquid's death leaves Snake in doubt of his own survival, as FOXDIE targets its victims based on specific DNA.\n\nAfter his death, Liquid Snake's right arm was transplanted to Revolver Ocelot, replacing the one he lost his during the events of the previous game. This results in Liquid's personality manifesting itself within Ocelot whenever Solid Snake is in proximity, causing Ocelot to adopt Liquid's voice and mannerisms. This happens for the first time when Snake confronts Ocelot during the hijacking of Metal Gear RAY from the disguised tanker. The rest of Liquid's body was being kept by an unspecified agency until it was stolen by Snake and his partner Hal Emmerich in order to fake Snake's death following the Tanker incident. Liquid's mind manifests within Ocelot once again during the final confrontation atop Arsenal Gear, as he hijacks Metal Gear RAY again with the intent of rebelling against The Patriots.\n\nIt was intended during the finalization of \"Metal Gear Solid 2\" for Liquid to send Arsenal Gear crashing into Manhattan in the game's climax. However, the line of dialogue that was intended to explicitly state this was cut from the final release, due to the September 11 attacks occurring as the game was nearing finalization. The dialogue, however, was retained in the novelization. The \"Metal Gear Solid: Sons of Liberty\" graphic novel features an additional scene in which Liquid haunts Ocelot's subconscious by summoning the spirit of The Sorrow, Ocelot's father, who expresses disappointment at Ocelot due to his inability to dispel Liquid's spirit from his body.\n\nIn the years after the Big Shell incident, Liquid Snake's consciousness seemingly takes Revolver Ocelot's body completely, becoming a new personality known as Liquid Ocelot. He takes control of the mercenary company Outer Heaven, which serves as the mother company to five of the largest private military companies in the world, and leads an insurrection against The Patriots' A.I. control system. However, the Liquid persona is ultimately revealed to be an elaborate facade by Ocelot himself that was possible through a process of self-hypnosis, with Ocelot having already replaced Liquid's arm with a cybernetic prosthetic sometime before the events of the game in order to restore his psyche. The rest of Liquid's remains was used to restore Big Boss's wounded body with spare body parts.\n\nLiquid Snake's next appearance in the series was in \"\", a prequel set in 1984, 21 years before the events of the original \"Metal Gear Solid\". In this game, the young Liquid is revealed to be a 12 year old child soldier named Eli, who fled from his home in England after learning about his nature as a clone. He becomes an active mercenary in the Angola-Zaire border region in Central Africa, where he sets up his own mercenary unit consisting entirely of children, earning him the nickname \"Nyoka ya Mpembe\" or \"White Mamba\" due to being the only white child soldier in the region.\n\nThe player first encounters Eli in Masa Village after it is taken over by Eli's group in Episode 23. After the player subdues Eli, he is taken into Mother Base where the Diamond Dogs staff try to re-educate him and integrate him into normal society along with the other child soldiers. However, Eli resists this treatment and rebels against the Mother Base staff, focusing his hostility on their leader Venom Snake, whom he mistakenly believes to be his biological father (unaware of his true nature as Big Boss's body double, as revealed in Episode 46).\n\nWhen Eli sneaks into a chopper during Snake's deployment to OKB Zero in Kabul during the events of Episode 31, he catches the attention of the young psychic known as the Third Child, who uses Eli's will to activate Sahelanthropus and attack Snake. After Sahelanthropus is neutralized and transferred to Mother Base, the Third Child infiltrates the place and befriends Eli, giving him a vial containing the English strain of Skull Face's vocal cord parasite. The two plot out an elaborate escape plan which involves helping other child soldiers escape and fixing Sahelanthropus with the assistance of its creator Dr. Emmerich. Ultimately, Eli succeeds in reactivating Sahelanthropus and hijacks it from Mother Base, escaping alongside the Third Child and the other child mercenaries. This is Eli's last appearance in the game.\n\n\"Kingdom of the Flies\", also known as Episode 51, is a mission that was omitted from the released version of \"Metal Gear Solid V\" that would have depicted Eli's actions following his escape from Mother Base. Video of this mission is featured in a Blu-ray disc included with the limited edition release of the game, depicting its events though concept art and partially completed cutscenes.\n\nThe mission has Snake pursuing Eli's group in an unnamed island in Africa surrounded by salt water, where the English strain of the vocal cord parasite has been spread in order to prevent access to adults. Snake confronts Eli and a battle ensues between the reactivated Sahelanthropus and an entire battalion of Diamond Dogs soldiers. Eli is defeated, but Snake is forced to abandon him when he displays signs of infections, as Eli's immunity to the parasites is no longer in effect due to puberty. Before Eli can die, the Third Child arrives and uses his psychic powers to remove the parasite within him. The two young friends escape just as Diamond Dogs launches a Napalm air strike to cleanse the island of the parasites. The story ends on an image of the Manhattan skyline, with Eli vowing revenge.\n\nLiquid Snake is described as being almost identical to Solid Snake in terms of facial appearance and physique, with the only difference between them being Liquid's darker skin tone and medium-length blond hair. He has a tattoo of a snake entwined around a sword on his left arm, with concept art also showing a small piercing on his left ear and dog tags around his neck. For most of \"Metal Gear Solid\", Liquid is dressed in a brown trenchcoat, but ultimately fights shirtless when he confronts Snake at the end of the game. When he disguises himself as Master Miller, he ties his hair in a ponytail and wears a pair of sunglasses, changing the tone of his voice as well. In \"Metal Gear Solid 2\", when Liquid possesses Ocelot, his physical appearance changes as well, exposing the surgically-attached right arm and letting his hair loose.\n\nEli in \"Metal Gear Solid V\" wears a wardrobe similar to his adult self, consisting of a green jacket with no shirt and shorts. The back of his jacket has a drawing of a pig with an eye patch meant to resemble Big Boss and the phrase \"Never Be Game Over\" atop of it. Underneath the pig, the kanji 液体人間 (\"ekitai ningen\"), which means \"liquid person\", can be seen.\n\nIn the original \"Metal Gear Solid\", Liquid Snake was voiced by Banjo Ginga in the Japanese version and by Cam Clarke (credited as James Flinders in the PlayStation release) in the English version. Both actors would reprise the role in \"Metal Gear Solid 2\", where Liquid's personality takes over mind of Revolver Ocelot, who switches between his natural voice (provided by Koji Totani in the Japanese version and Pat Zimmerman in English) and Liquid's. Due to the death of Koji Totani in 2005, the role of Ocelot was taken over by Banjo Ginga in the Japanese version of \"Metal Gear Solid 4\" and the idea of Revolver Ocelot switching personalities between his natural self and Liquid's persona was abandoned in favor of having Liquid completely take over Ocelot's mind, forming a new entity named Liquid Ocelot. Despite this, Pat Zimmerman continued to voice Ocelot in the English version of \"Metal Gear Solid 4\", with Cam Clarke's voice only being used through uncredited use of his performances from previous games. Stuntman Mark Musashi provided Liquid Snake's motion capture for \"\".\n\nEli, the young version of Liquid Snake in \"Metal Gear Solid V\", was voiced by Piers Stubbs, who also provided facial capture, while his motion capture was performed by Vincent Giry. Yūtarō Honjō dubbed the character's voice for the Japanese version.\n\nLiquid Snake is the second character introduced in the series bearing the \"Snake\" codename, following Solid Snake himself. His codename is meant to reflect his nature as Solid Snake's opposite. However, because Solid Snake, already an established character from the previous games, is known simply as \"Snake\" by most of the cast, Liquid Snake himself is referred primarily as \"Liquid\" by other characters and even within the game's mission logs. His FOXHOUND comrades simply acknowledge him as \"Boss\".\n\nHis real name is revealed to be Eli in \"The Phantom Pain\", with \"Nyoka ya Mpembe\" or \"White Mamba\" being his nickname among other child soldiers. The name \"Eli\" has been likened to the biblical character Eliab, the eldest of King David's seven brothers, an allusion to Solid Snake's real name (David) and the six other brothers who were aborted during the cloning process that led to his and Liquid's creation.\n\nIn 1999, readers of GameSpot voted Liquid Snake into the list of top ten video game villains. IGN included him in their 2011 list of top 100 video game villains, as number 53. He was ranked as the 16th \"coolest\" video game villain by \"Complex\" in 2012. GameDaily ranked him ninth on their \"Top 25 Evil Masterminds of All Time\". Liquid ranked first on IGN's 2008 list of the \"Metal Gear\" series' top ten villains, also placing as seventh on their list of top ten \"Metal Gear\" boss battles. \"Play\" ranked Liquid Snake the fifth best \"Metal Gear\" character, adding he \"has become one of the most iconic villains of the franchise and is still one of its most popular characters.\"\n\nLiquid was included on GamesRadar 2008 list of \"outrageously camp bad guys\" at fifth place, also giving honourable mention on their list of \"mega plot twists you never saw coming\" to finding out Master Miller is actually Liquid Snake. In 2011, UGO Networks ranked Liquid as the fourth scariest fictional terrorist in entertainment, also featuring him revealing himself in \"Metal Gear Solid\" on the list of the most shocking twists in gaming. In 2012, GamesRadar featured both him and Solidus Snake at the second place on the list of most evil clones in gaming, commenting that \"as evil clones go, the ones that threaten the world with thermonuclear war and eradication rank as some of the worst,\" and also listing him and Solid Snake as having one of the best brotherly rivalries in gaming. IGN also remarked their rivalry, saying \"Few rivalries in games have spanned as massive and confusing a timeline as Solid Snake and Liquid Snake\".\n\n \n"}
{"id": "13999704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13999704", "title": "List of ethnic sports team and mascot names", "text": "List of ethnic sports team and mascot names\n\nThe following is a list of sports team names and mascots derived from terms used to refer to specific ethnic groups, and words or iconography derived from different languages or traditions of these groups. Many such names are derived from ancestral groups of the same ethnicity as many of the current fans or players, such as the Boston Celtics (Irish) and the Minnesota Vikings (Scandinavian). Since ethnicity is defined by social identity there may be differences of opinion regarding membership in a particular group, and the appropriateness of the use of such references by others. Ethnicity was once distinct from \"race\" when the latter was thought to refer to biological distinctiveness as well as cultural differences. However, the biological basis for race has been largely abandoned by academic disciplines, leaving race as another social constructed concept for dividing people into groups based upon shared experience and history as well as physical characteristics.\nIn the United States and Canada, many sports team names and mascots refer to the Indigenous peoples of the Americas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3852282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3852282", "title": "Mariam Cannon Hayes School of Music", "text": "Mariam Cannon Hayes School of Music\n\nThe Mariam Cannon Hayes School of Music is part of \"Appalachian State University\" and is one of the premier public music schools in the eastern United States. A fully accredited member of the National Association of Schools of Music, the Hayes School of Music offers undergraduate programs in music education, music performance, theory/composition, sacred music performance, music therapy, and music industry studies as well as Master of Music degrees in performance, music education, and music therapy. Particularly distinguished for its music performance, music education, and music therapy programs, the Hayes School of Music draws students and faculty from across the United States and the world. Through summer workshops and specialized course offerings (e.g. the North Carolina Summer Institute of Choral Arts), the Hayes School of Music is engaged in year-round activities. In addition, the school also sponsors the Cannon Music Camp, an annual comprehensive summer music camp that trains younger, high-school-age musicians, during which the North Carolina Symphony is in residence.\n\nThe first music teacher at what was to become Appalachian State University was Lillie Shull Dougherty, the wife of University Business Manager and Co-founder D.D. Dougherty. From its beginning, Appalachian State University offered students instruction in voice and piano on an extracurricular basis, and by the late 1920s, choruses, glee clubs, and string bands were flourishing on the campus of what was then Appalachian State Teachers College. Students' increased interest in music led to Edith Knight joining the music faculty, and she broadened the musical offerings to include music education, music appreciation, and additional applied music courses. \n\nKnight was succeeded by Virginia Ward Linney in 1929, and the educational need to prepare specialists to teach music in the public schools led, a year later, to the creation of the Music Department, with Linney serving as chairperson. Soon afterward, courses in harmony, music education, music history and applied music were added to the curriculum. During the Depression years, when enrollment of the University fluctuated between 350 and 900 students in any given year, the college and surrounding area faced hard times. In spite of this, the Music Department continued to expand. More courses were added in order to educate music teachers with an emphasis on excellence in performance. To further this end, in 1939, Gordon Nash and J. Elwood Roberts began teaching band and orchestral instrument methods classes. Two years later, Roy R. Blanton and John B. Thompson were recipients of the first music education degrees conferred by Appalachian. \n\nAs with other American colleges and universities in the early 1940s, Appalachian State Teachers College and its Music Department experienced reduced enrollment and a preponderantly female population (Note the number of women in the chamber orchestra photo from 1942). \"The war has taken about all our boys,\" lamented university co-founder and president B.B. Dougherty in 1944. \n\nPostwar years, on the other hand, brought a time of growth and new enthusiasm at Appalachian as returning servicemen altered the demographics and psychology of the nation. \nIn 1952, with Gordon Nash now at the helm, the Appalachian State Teachers College Music Department moved into a new fine arts building, and in 1953, the department joined the National Association of Schools of Music.\n\nFrom 1958 to 1972, during the tenure of William G. Spencer as Music Department chairman, Appalachian experienced considerable growth in both the number of students and the number of faculty. Student enrollment soared to above 2400 in 1958, only to double to over 5000 by 1968. In 1967, Appalachian, now officially Appalachian State University, became a regional university. Dr. Nicholas Erneston was appointed Dean of the newly organized College of Fine and Applied Arts (which included the Music Department), and in 1969 a proposal was presented to the North Carolina General Assembly to construct on campus a fine arts complex which would include an auditorium and buildings for art, music, speech, and drama.\n\nWith the induction of Appalachian State University into the University of North Carolina system in 1972, Chancellor Herbert W. Wey encouraged faculty members to be as creative as they dared. The Music Department met the challenge both with the engagement of world-class performers as applied music faculty, as well as with an explosion of creative ideas, enlivening the curriculum. One such campus-wide experiment from that era that continues to the present day is Watauga College, a residential college with enhanced faculty-student relationships and interdisciplinary studies, which exists in an arts-centered environment within the greater University. The College, located near the School of Music, has served as the home for many of Appalachian's music students. Two other important developments of this period were the establishment of Appalachian’s New York Loft and the Appalachian House in Washington, D.C. These off-campus living environments are available to music students and faculty to pursue off-campus artistic and scholarly field trips and musical opportunities.\n\nThe current music complex, the Broyhill Music Center, was completed in the spring of 1983. The Music Center includes two performance spaces, a 125-seat Recital Hall and 440-seat Concert Hall, a state-of-the-art recording studio, an opera studio, a fully equipped MIDI/electronic music studio, a computer lab, a piano lab, a music library, an instrumental rehearsal hall, a choral rehearsal hall, several small ensemble rehearsal rooms, more than 30 studio/offices and over 40 practice rooms.\n\nIn 1988, the artistic and academic growth of the Department of Music resulted in its expansion into an autonomous School of Music (and separation from the College of Fine and Applied Arts). In 1989, Arthur Unsworth was named as the first dean of the School of Music. From the beginning of the 21st-century to June 30, 2009, the composer William Harbinson, an alumnus of Appalachian, served as dean of the School of Music. James Douthit, a graduate of the Eastman School of Music (University of Rochester) currently serves as dean of the School of Music.\n\nIn May 2001, the late Mariam Cannon Hayes of Concord, NC, who was a longtime patron of the arts and ardent supporter of the music program at Appalachian State University, made a $10 million endowment gift to the School of Music. Proceeds from her endowment fund current and future needs of the School of Music and also provide funding for scholarly research and performance. \nSubsequently, the Appalachian State University Board of Trustees named the Hayes School of Music in her honor. In addition, Mariam Cannon Hayes had been a prime force behind the creation of The Mariam and Robert Hayes Performing Arts Center. The Center, an off-campus 350-seat facility especially designed for performances of musical theater, opera, and theater, was completed in August 2006 and hosts select School of Music performances.\n\nOver the course of little more than a century, Lillie Shull Dougherty's extracurricular music classes have evolved into what has become an artistic beacon for North Carolina, the Mariam Cannon Hayes School of Music. As does its famous northern counterpart, Juilliard, Appalachian's Hayes School of Music owes a great deal to a patron of the arts connected to the textiles industry (Mariam Cannon Hayes is the daughter of Charles Albert Cannon, the man recognized for making \"Cannon\" a brand name, while textile merchant Augustus Juilliard is that school's namesake).\n\n"}
{"id": "1422227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1422227", "title": "Music of Andhra Pradesh", "text": "Music of Andhra Pradesh\n\nThe major composers like Annamacharya, Tyagaraja, Bhadrachala Ramadas, Kshetrayya, \"Bhuloka tsapa chutti\" (One who carpeted the Earth) Bobbili Keshavayya, Karvetinagaram composers like Govindasamayya and Sarangapani were pioneers in the field of Carnatic music. In the area of instrumental music, giants such as Dwaram Venkataswamy Naidu (violin), Emani Sankara Sastry (veena), Sheik Chinna Moulana (Nadaswaram) and Chitti Babu (veena) are famous. Contemporary stalwarts of Vocal music include Voleti Venkatesvarulu, Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna, Nedunuri Krishnamurthy, Dwaram Bhavanarayana Rao, Srirangam Gopalaratnam, Sripada Pinakapani, Nookala Chinna Satyanarayana, Lalita & Haripriya, D.Raghavachary & Seshachay, Dr.Dwaram Lakshmi, Manda Sudharani, Parthasarathy N.Ch, and Dr.Dwaram tyagaraj. Also Yella Venkatesara Rao, Patri Satish Kumar (mridangam), Pantula Rama, U. Srinivas (mandolin), D.Srinivas (veena) Tirupati Srivani Yalla ( veena ),Marella Kesava Rao, Ivaturi Vijayeshwara Rao, Akella Mallikarjuna Sharma, Avasarala Kanyakumari (Violin) are some of the eminent instrumentalists from Andhra Pradesh.\n\nSusarla Dakshinamurthi, Parupalli Ramakrishnaiah Pantulu, Ogirala Ramachandra Rao,\nPithapuram Nageswara Rao, Tanguturi Suryakumari, and Mangalampalli Balamuralikrishna are one of the influential music composers of south Indian cinema. Music composers such as Pendyala Nageswara Rao, R. Sudarshanam and R. Goverdhanam duo made contribution to folklore and mythological films. Madhavapeddi Satyam, P. Adinarayana Rao, Gali Penchala Narasimha Rao, Chellapilla Satyam, P. B. Sreenivas, S. P. Kodandapani, G. K. Venkatesh, S. Hanumantha Rao, have contributed their work extensively for films with social relevance themes. Ghantasala, S. P. Balasubrahmanyam, P. Susheela, S. Janaki, M. M. Keeravani, Ramesh Naidu etc., are some of the musicians and playback singers from Andhra Pradesh to receive National recognition. R. P. Patnaik is the current president of Andhra Pradesh Cine Music Association.\n\nOther prominent Telugu film score and soundtrack composers of the present include K. Chakravarthy, Raj-Koti, Mani Sharma, Devi Sri Prasad, Mickey J Meyer, Ramana Gogula, R. P. Patnaik, Chakri (music director), Kalyani Malik, S. Thaman, S. V. Krishna Reddy, Vandemataram Srinivas and Sri Kommineni.\n"}
{"id": "3202890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3202890", "title": "My Saint Helena Island", "text": "My Saint Helena Island\n\nMy Saint Helena Island is the unofficial territorial anthem of Saint Helena. It was written by Dave Mitchell in 1975, after persuasion from the inhabitants of Saint Helena. As a British Overseas Territory the official anthem is \"God Save the Queen\".\n\nDave Mitchell, nicknamed “Old Saddlebags”, was a country & western disc jockey on AFN Volcano Radio on Ascension Island. He was introduced to Saints on Ascension by his friend Charlie Renn, and became involved with them, playing for parties all over the island. Renn suggested that Mitchell write a song for St. Helena. Mitchell was reluctant to do so, as he had never been to St Helena, so Renn, who had visited the island, promptly brought Mitchell some large colour postcards of the island. After sitting in his room for a night or two studying the postcards, Mitchell picked up his guitar and in a few minutes the song was written. It is, appropriately, a country song.\n\nThe song was an immediate hit with the Saints on Ascension. With the help of recording company Camaro Records, Mitchell made two 45-rpm records (four songs) in Memphis, Tennessee in 1975. He planned to make a trip to St. Helena to deliver the records in person, but this proved not to be possible, so he had to mail them instead. The reaction on St. Helena was as enthusiastic as that of the Saints on Ascension, and “My St. Helena Island” quickly became the de facto national song of St. Helena.\n\nIt is played regularly as a request on Saint FM Community Radio, and was played over the now-decommissioned RMS \"St Helena\"'s PA system every time it departed port.\n\nThe lyrics are:\n\n1: My heart is drifting southward / To my home down in the sea / It’s the isle of St. Helena / Where my loved ones wait for me / Long since I left it / But I’ll soon be going home / To my St. Helena island / And swear I’ll never roam\n\n2: Diamonds they are pretty / So is your fancy cars / But St. Helena island / Is prettier by far / All the wonders of this world / I’m told they number seven / But St. Helena Island / Is the nearest one to heaven\n\n3: Diamonds they are pretty / So is your fancy cars / But St. Helena island / Is prettier by far / Someday if the Lord above / Comes out of heaven’s gate / I’m sure He’ll pick St. Helena / And use it as His place\n\n"}
{"id": "3585072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3585072", "title": "National colours of Australia", "text": "National colours of Australia\n\nThe national colours of Australia are green and gold. They were established by the Governor-General of Australia, Sir Ninian Stephen, on 19 April 1984 in the Commonwealth of Australia Gazette; on advice from Prime Minister Bob Hawke.\n\nThe gold colour represents the golden wattle (\"Acacia pycnantha\"), which is Australia's national flower. The uniforms of Australia's national sports teams are usually green and gold. The golden wattle flower, and the colours green and gold, are also featured on the Coat of arms of Australia.\n\nThe Australian government states that, to be used correctly, the colours are placed side-by-side, with no other colour between them. The exact green and gold colours are specified as Pantone Matching System numbers 348C and 116C. The colours are always referred to as 'green and gold', respectively.\n\nBefore 1984 three colour combinations unofficially represented Australia:\n\nAccording to the Australian government, \"green and gold have been popularly embraced as Australia’s national sporting colours\" since the late 1800s. Nearly every current Australian national sports team wears them (although the hues and proportions of the colours may vary between teams and across eras). Australia's cricket team first wore the colours in 1899, in the form of the baggy green, the cap presented to Australian cricket players.\n\nThe first Australian national sporting team to wear green and gold was the Australian cricket team that toured England in 1899. Their clothes were the traditional white, but the captain Joe Darling arranged for green and gold caps and blazers to be worn for the opening match of the Ashes series. Previously, the team had had no uniform cap or blazer colours but wore an assortment of club or state colours. The Australian cricket team continued to use the colours thereafter, and in 1908 the colours were ratified as the official team colours for future Australian cricket teams. During subsequent discussions by members of the New South Wales Cricket Association, the colours were reportedly referred to as \"gum-tree green\" and \"wattle-gold\". Australian national colours have switched between green and blue often throughout history causing some Australians to confuse the two.\n\nThe Australasian Olympic team adopted \"green and wattle\" in 1908, but not every team played in the colours. In the 1912 Olympics, an official Australian uniform was adopted for the first time: green vests with gold trimming, and white shorts with green and gold trimming.\n\nOf the football codes, the Australian national soccer team first wore green and gold in 1924 with the Australian national rugby league team and Australia national rugby union team following in 1928 and 1929 respectively.\n\nTeams that wear the green and gold include:\n\nSince 1961, the Wallabies have worn a gold jersey with green lettering and trim; they changed from a primarily green jersey to avoid a colour clash with the Springboks of South Africa.\n\nFrom around 1981 the colours were also used in the livery of the government railway body Australian National, formed by the 1970s merger of Commonwealth Railways with the state-run South Australian Railways and Tasmanian Government Railways. Australian National was privatised in 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8264365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8264365", "title": "Northwest Coast art", "text": "Northwest Coast art\n\nNorthwest Coast art is the term commonly applied to a style of art created primarily by artists from Tlingit, Haida, Heiltsuk, Nuxalk, Tsimshian, Kwakwaka'wakw, Nuu-chah-nulth and other First Nations and Native American tribes of the Northwest Coast of North America, from pre-European-contact times up to the present.\n\nTwo-dimensional Northwest Coast art is distinguished by the use of formlines, and the use of characteristic shapes referred to as \"ovoids\", \"U forms\" and \"S forms\". Before European contact, the most common media were wood (often Western red cedar), stone, and copper; since European contact, paper, canvas, glass, and precious metals have also been used. If paint is used, the most common colours are red and black, but yellow is also often used, particularly among Kwakwaka'wakw artists. Chilkat weaving applies formline designs to textiles. Tlingit, Haida, and Tsimshian have traditionally produced Chilkat woven regalia, from wool and yellow cedar bark, that is important for civic and ceremonial events, including potlatches.\n\nThe patterns depicted include natural forms such as bears, ravens, eagles, orcas, and humans; legendary creatures such as thunderbirds and sisiutls; and abstract forms made up of the characteristic Northwest Coast shapes. Totem poles are the most well-known artifacts produced using this style. Northwest Coast artists are also notable for producing characteristic \"bent-corner\" or \"bentwood\" boxes, masks, and canoes. Northwest Coast designs were also used to decorate traditional First Nations household items such as spoons, ladles, baskets, hats, and paddles; since European contact, the Northwest Coast art style has increasingly been used in gallery-oriented forms such as paintings, prints and sculptures.\n\nTextile arts from the Northwest Coast include Chilkat weaving, Raven's Tail Weavings, Button Blankets, and elaborate ceremonial regalia using a range of materials. Three dimension art was created from many materials, notably wood.\n\nPrior to contact with Europeans, First Nations on the Northwest coast evolved complex social and ceremonial institutions, including the potlatch system, hereditary systems of rank and descent, ceremonial societies, and permanent villages. Social organization involved groups of kin, reckoned variously matrilineally, patrilineally or bi-lineally. These groups hold various tangible and intangible rights and properties. Among them are origin stories. Many instances of Northwest coast art are visual references to these stories. \n\nAfter European contact, in the late 18th century, the peoples who produced Northwest Coast art suffered huge population losses due to diseases such as smallpox, and cultural losses due to colonization and assimilation into European-North American culture. The production of their art dropped drastically as well.\n\nToward the end of the 19th century, Northwest Coast artists began producing work for commercial sale, such as small argillite carvings. The end of the 19th century also saw large-scale export of totem poles, masks and other traditional art objects from the region to museums and private collectors around the world. Some of this export was accompanied by financial compensation to people who had a right to sell the art, and some was not.\n\nIn the early 20th century, very few First Nations artists in the Northwest Coast region were producing art. A tenuous link to older traditions remained in artists such as Charles Gladstone, Henry Speck, Ellen Neel, Stanley George, and Mungo Martin. The mid-20th century saw a revival of interest and production of Northwest Coast art, due to the influence of historians, artists and critics including Bill Reid, a grandson of Charles Gladstone and Bill Holm. A revival of traditional ceremonial ways also drove the increased production of traditional arts. This time also saw an increasing demand for the return of art objects that were illegally or immorally taken from First Nations communities. This demand continues to the present day. Today, there are numerous art schools teaching formal Northwest Coast art of various styles, and there is a growing market for new art in this style.\n\nThe revival of ceremonial life, following the lifting of the potlatch ban - have also driven production of traditional clothing, painting and carving for use in ceremonies.\n\nAlthough neighbouring peoples such as the Coast Salish peoples also traditionally produced art which shares some characteristics of Northwest Coast art, these styles of art are not usually included in the term, since the patterns and artifacts produced are rather different. For example, Salish peoples traditionally created standing welcome figures not created by other Northwest Coast peoples, did not traditionally create totem poles, and did not traditionally use the form lines and shapes of other Northwest Coast peoples. One corollary of this fact is that — contrary to popular belief — other than some of the peoples of the Olympic Peninsula, no Native American nations of Washington and Oregon states produced totem poles and other characteristic, formline, Northwest Coast-style art objects before European contact.\n\nTraditionally, within a given community, some patterns and motifs could be used only by certain families and lineages, or with the agreement of those families and lineages. Today, in British Columbia, it is a point of contention whether only First Nations artists of the appropriate nation have the moral right to produce art of given types and using given motifs, or whether only the intent of the person and the respect given to the respective peoples are significant. Likewise, in Ontario, similar controversies have arisen over whether non-Native artists have the moral right to make use of Native motifs and visual art styles. Some non-Native artists, such as John Livingston, have been adopted into First Nations and have thus formally acquired the right to produce such art. In some nations, such as the Haida, adoptions are seen by some only as gestures, and production of work in their trademark style by outsiders may, in some contexts, be viewed as economic and cultural appropriation. T\n\nNotable Northwest Coast artists of the 19th century include- Albert Edward Edenshaw (Haida), Captain Carpenter (Heiltsuk), Willie Seaweed (Kwakwak'wakw), Charles Edenshaw, who is widely acknowledged as a master whose art is in all the great collections around the world.\n\nAlso Guujaaw, another notable carver and builder who is also Haida political leader. Other notable Northwest Coast artists of the 20th and 21st centuries include Charlie James, Henry Speck, Doug Cranmer, Stanley George, James Schoppert, Bill Reid, Mungo Martin, Ellen Neel, Robert Davidson, Beau Dick, Willie Seaweed, Roy Henry Vickers, Don Yeomans, Amos Wallace, Lyle Wilson, Ron Hamilton, Art Thompson, Joe David, Reginald Peterson, Freda Diesing, Lawrence Paul Yuxweluptun, and Tony Hunt.\n\nNotable academics and publishers of northwest Northwest Coast include Bill Holm, Bill Reid, Hilary Stewart, Bill McLennan, Martha Black, and George F. MacDonald. Doreen Jensen and Polly Sargent's book \"Robes of Power\" (1986) deals with ceremonial robes - called Button blanket - and their history and forms. Cheryl Samuel and her book \"The Raven's Tail\" (1987) describes northern weaving style known as Raven's Tail - used to make ceremonial robes and other regalia. \n\nEmily Carr, though she did not formally adopt the techniques, commonly used native art as the motif of many of her early paintings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1100845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1100845", "title": "Oera Linda Book", "text": "Oera Linda Book\n\nThe Oera Linda Book is a manuscript written in a form of Old Frisian, purporting to cover historical, mythological, and religious themes of remote antiquity, from 2194 BCE to 803 CE. Among academics in Germanic philology, the document is widely considered to be a hoax or forgery.\n\nThe manuscript first came to public awareness in the 1860s. In 1872, Jan Gerhardus Ottema published a Dutch translation and defended it as genuine. Over the next few years there was a heated public controversy, but by 1879 it was universally accepted that the text was a recent composition. Nevertheless, a public controversy was revived in the context of 1930s Nazi occultism, and the book is still occasionally brought up in esotericism and Atlantis literature. The manuscript's author is not known with certainty, hence it is unknown whether the intention was to produce a hoax, a parody or simply an exercise in poetic fantasy.\n\nHistorian Goffe Jensma published a monograph on the manuscript in 2004, \"De gemaskerde god\" (\"The Masked God\"), including a new translation and a discussion of the history of its reception. Jensma concludes that it was probably intended as a \"hoax to fool some nationalist Frisians and orthodox Christians\", as well as an \"experiential exemplary exercise\" by Dutch theologian and poet François Haverschmidt.\n\nThe Oera Linda Book, known in Old Frisian as \"Thet Oera Linda Bok\", came to light in 1867 when Cornelis Over de Linden (1811–1874) handed the manuscript, which he claimed to have inherited from his grandfather, via his aunt, over to Eelco Verwijs (1830–1880), the provincial librarian of Friesland, for translation and publication. Verwijs rejected the manuscript, but in 1872 Jan Gerhardus Ottema (1804–1879), a prominent member of the Frisian Society for History and Culture, published a Dutch translation. Ottema believed it to be written in authentic Old Frisian. The book was subsequently translated into English by William Sandbach in 1876, and published by Trübner & Co. of London.\n\nWithin the first few years after the appearance of the Oera Linda Book, its recent origin was established not only based on the exceptional claims being made, but also because of a number of anachronisms it contained. The text was nevertheless a source of inspiration for a number of occultists and speculative historians. While there was some debate among Dutch academics and in a number of newspapers about the book's authenticity during the 1870s, by 1879 it was widely recognized as a forgery.\n\nMore than forty years later, beginning in 1922, Dutch \"völkisch\" philologist Herman Wirth revived the issue. Wirth published a German translation of what he dubbed the \"Nordic Bible\" in 1933, as \"Die Ura Linda Chronik\".\n\nA panel discussion on Wirth's book at the University of Berlin on 4 May 1934 was the immediate impulse for the foundation of the Ahnenerbe Nazi \"think tank\" by Himmler and Wirth, together with Richard Walther Darré. Because of the infatuation of Himmler with the Oera Linda Book and its consequent association with Nazi occultism, it became known as \"Himmler's Bible\". Wirth's book was by no means universally acclaimed among the Nazi-era Nordicist academics, and the 1934 panel discussion was steeped in heated controversy. Alfred Rosenberg and his circle rejected it. Gustav Neckel had praised Wirth's work before publication, but upon seeing its content published a dismayed recension.\n\nSpeaking in defense of the book's authenticity were Walther Wüst and Otto Huth, besides Wirth himself. Speaking against its authenticity were Neckel, Karl Hermann Jacob-Friesen (who identified it as a satirical hoax by Linden) and Arthur Hübner. Hübner was one of the most respected Germanists of his generation, and his verdict of the Oera Linda being a falsification settled the defeat of Wirth's party. The public defeat of Himmler's scholarly brand of \"esoteric Nordicism\" resulted in the foundation of Ahnenerbe, which attracted occultists such as Karl Maria Wiligut and was viewed with suspicion by the mainstream National Socialist ideologues of Amt Rosenberg.\n\nThe book experienced a revival of popularity in the English-speaking world with the writings of Robert Scrutton. In \"The Other Atlantis\" (1977) he reproduced the full text of Sandbach's 1876 English translation, interspersed with his own commentaries on history and mythology. In \"Secrets of Lost Atland\" (1979) he became the first to link the book with the concept of earth mysteries, and, in particular, ley lines and telluric energy. Following Scrutton's example, English language accounts of the Oera Linda Book tend to place it within the New Age or alternate history genres, and do not associate it with National Socialism, as is the case in Germany.\n\nAnother figure to formulate a contemporary Neopagan tradition influenced by the Oera Linda Book was Tony Steele, who considered the book to reveal the genuine truth about the ancient European megalithic culture. In \"Water Witches\" (1998) he examined the book's use as a cultural identity marker by the Frisian-descended canal folk of the English Midlands. In \"The Rites and Rituals of Traditional Witchcraft\" (2001) he connected the religious practices of the priestesses described in the book with later medieval witchcraft traditions.\n\nAmong those who doubt the book's authenticity, the most popular candidates for the author of the manuscript are Cornelis Over de Linden or Eelco Verwijs. A recent third choice is the Protestant preacher François Haverschmidt (1835–1894), well known for writing poetry under the pseudonym Piet Paaltjens. Haverschmidt lived in Friesland and was an acquaintance of Verwijs.\n\nGoffe Jensma (2004) argued that Haverschmidt was the main writer of the book, with the help of Over de Linden and Verwijs. According to Jensma, Haverschmidt intended the Oera Linda Book as a parody of the Christian Bible. An article in late 2007 by Jensma says that the three authors of the translation intended it \"to be a temporary hoax to fool some nationalist Frisians and orthodox Christians and as an experiential exemplary exercise in reading the Holy Bible in a non-fundamentalist, symbolical way.\" Ignoring clues that it was a forgery, J. G. Ottema took it seriously, and it achieved popularity for the reasons given above. Its creators felt unable to admit that they had written it, and it became the foundation for new occult beliefs. Jensma concludes his article by saying \"It is a perfect irony that a book written to unmask the Holy Bible as a book of human making was to become a bible itself.\"\n\nThemes running through the Oera Linda Book include catastrophism, nationalism, matriarchy, and mythology. The text alleges that Europe and other lands were, for a large part of their history, ruled by a succession of folk-mothers presiding over a hierarchical order of celibate priestesses dedicated to the goddess Frya, daughter of the creator god Wr-alda and Jrtha, the earth mother. The claim is also made that this Frisian civilization possessed an alphabet that was the ancestor of the Greek and Phoenician alphabets. Modern historiography is essentially ignored, particularly in the area of basic chronology of known events in the recent and distant past of Europe. Geological as well as geographical evidence that was readily available even as far back as Over de Linden's time is also mostly absent from the manuscript.\n\nThe earliest portion of the Oera Linda Book, namely \"Frya’s Tex\", was supposedly composed in 2194 BC, whereas the most recent part, the letter of Hidde Oera Linda, dates to AD 1256. Almost half of the entire book comprises \"The Book of Adela’s Followers\", the original text around which the rest grew. It is purported to have been compiled in the 6th century BC from a mixture of contemporary writings and ancient inscriptions. The last two sections of the Oera Linda Book contain a number of lacunae and the book itself breaks off in mid-sentence.\n\nIt also describes a lost land called Atland (the name given to Atlantis by the 17th century scholar Olof Rudbeck), which was supposedly submerged in 2194 BC, the same year as 19th century Dutch and Frisian almanacs, following traditional Biblical chronology given for Noah's flood.\n\nThe Oera Linda Book is divided into six sections, further subdivided into a total of 53 chapters.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3812728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3812728", "title": "Osman Hamdi Bey", "text": "Osman Hamdi Bey\n\nOsman Hamdi Bey (30 December 184224 February 1910) was an Ottoman administrator, intellectual, art expert and also a prominent and pioneering painter. He was also an accomplished archaeologist, and is regarded as the pioneer of the museum curator's profession in Turkey. He was the founder of Istanbul Archaeology Museums and of \"Istanbul Academy of Fine Arts\" ( in Turkish), known today as the Mimar Sinan University of Fine Arts.\n\nOsman Hamdi was the son of Ibrahim Edhem Pasha, an Ottoman Grand Vizier (in office 1877–1878, replacing Midhat Pasha) who was originally a Greek boy from the Ottoman island of Sakız (Chios) orphaned at a very young age following the Chios massacre there. He was adopted by Kaptan-ı Derya (Grand Admiral) Hüsrev Pasha and eventually rose to the ranks of the ruling class of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nOsman Hamdi went to primary school in the popular Istanbul quarter of Beşiktaş; after which he studied Law, first in Istanbul (1856) and then in Paris (1860). However, he decided to pursue his interest in painting instead, left the Law program, and trained under French orientalist painters Jean-Léon Gérôme and Gustave Boulanger. During his nine-year stay in Paris, the international capital of fine arts at the time, he showed a keen interest for the artistic events of his day.\n\nHis stay in Paris was also marked by the first ever visit by an Ottoman sultan to Western Europe, when Sultan Abdülaziz was invited to the Exposition Universelle (1867) by Emperor Napoleon III. He also met many of the Young Ottomans in Paris, and even though he was exposed to their liberal ideas, he did not participate in their political activities, being the son of an Ottoman pasha who was loyal to the sultan and did not challenge the old absolutist system. Osman Hamdi Bey also met his first wife Marie, a French woman, in Paris when he was a student. After receiving his father's blessings, she accompanied him to Istanbul (Constantinople) when he returned in 1869, where the two got married and had two daughters.\n\nOnce back in Turkey, he was sent to the Ottoman province of Baghdad as part of the administrative team of Midhat Pasha (the leading political figure and reformer among the Young Ottomans who enacted the First Ottoman Constitution in 1876, Midhat Pasha served as the Grand Vizier between 1876–1877, before being replaced by İbrahim Edhem Pasha, Osman Hamdi Bey's father.) In 1871, Osman Hamdi returned to Istanbul, as the vice-director of the Protocol Office of the Palace. During the 1870s, he worked on several assignments in the upper echelons of the Ottoman bureaucracy.\n\nOsman Hamdi exhibited three paintings at the 1867 Paris Exposition Universelle. None seem to have survived today, but their titles were \"Repose of the Gypsies\", \"Black Sea Soldier Lying in Wait\", and \"Death of the Soldier\".\nAn important step in his career was his assignment as the director of the Imperial Museum (Müze-i Hümayun) in 1881. He used his position as museum director to develop the museum and rewrite the antiquities laws and to create nationally sponsored archaeological expeditions. In 1882, he instituted and became director of the Academy of Fine Arts, which provided Ottomans with training in aesthetics and artistic techniques without leaving the empire. In 1884, he oversaw the promulgation of a Regulation prohibiting historical artifacts from being smuggled abroad \"(Asar-ı Atîka Nizamnamesi)\", a giant step in constituting a legal framework of preservation of the antiquities. Representatives or middlemen of 19th-century European Powers routinely smuggled artifacts with historical value from within the boundaries of the Ottoman Empire (which then comprised the geographies of ancient Greek and Mesopotamian civilizations, among others), often resorting to shadily obtained licenses or bribes, to enrich museums in European capitals.\n\nHe conducted the first scientific based archaeological researches done by a Turkish team. His digs included sites as varied as the Commagene tomb-sanctuary in Nemrut Dağı in southeastern Anatolia (a top tourist's venue in Turkey and a UNESCO World Heritage Site today, within the Adıyaman Province), the Hekate sanctuary in Lagina in southwestern Anatolia (much less visited, and within the Muğla Province today), and Sidon in Lebanon. The sarcophagi he discovered in Sidon (including the one known as the Alexander Sarcophagus, although this sarcophagus is thought to contain the remains of either Abdalonymus, King of Sidon; or Mazaeus, a Persian noble who was also the governor of Babylon) are considered among the worldwide jewels of archaeological findings. To lodge these, he started building what is today the Istanbul Archaeology Museum in 1881. The museum officially opened in 1891 under his directorship.\n\nThroughout his professional career as museum and academy director, Osman Hamdi continued to paint in the style of his teachers, Gérôme and Boulanger.\n\nHis 1906 painting, \"The Tortoise Trainer\", broke a record in Turkey by being sold for the amount of 3.5 million dollars in December 2004. The painting expresses a sarcastic innuendo on the painter's own view of his style of work compared to those of his collaborators and apprentices, and is also a reference to the historical fact of tortoises having been employed for illuminative and decorative purposes, by placing candles on the shell, in evening outings during the Tulip Era in the early 18th century. The painting was acquired by the Suna and İnan Kıraç Foundation and is currently on display at the Pera Museum in İstanbul, which was established by this foundation.\n\nModern researchers have identified the animals portrayed are \"Testudo graeca ibera\", a variety of the Spur-thighed tortoise. A reproduction of the painting appeared on the cover of the \"Bibliotheca Herpetologica\" issue in which the paper about the identification was published.\n\nOsman Hamdi was both a painter and author. His paintings and the books he authored dealing with themes of archaeology, travel and folk customs in the Middle East.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2118843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2118843", "title": "Progress", "text": "Progress\n\nProgress is the idea that advances in technology, science, and social organization can produce an improvement in the human condition, and therefore that entire societies, and humanity in general, can improve in terms of their social, political, and economic structures. This may happen as a result of direct human action, as in social enterprise or through activism, or as a natural part of sociocultural evolution.\n\nThe concept of progress was introduced in the early 19th century social theories, especially social evolution as described by Auguste Comte and Herbert Spencer. It was present in the Enlightenment's philosophies of history. As a goal, social progress has been advocated by varying realms of political ideologies with different theories on how it is to be achieved.\n\nSpecific indicators for measuring progress can range from economic data, technical innovations, change in the political or legal system, and questions bearing on individual life chances, such as life expectancy and risk of disease and disability.\n\nGDP growth has become a key orientation for politics and is often taken as a key figure to evaluate a politician's performance. However, GDP has a number of flaws that make it a bad measure of progress, especially for developed countries. For example, environmental damage is not taken into account nor is the sustainability of economic activity. Wikiprogress has been set up to share information on evaluating societal progress. It aims to facilitate the exchange of ideas, initiatives and knowledge. HumanProgress.org is another online resource that seeks to compile data on different measures of societal progress.\n\nThe Social Progress Index is a tool developed by the International Organization Imperative Social Progress, which measures the extent to which countries cover social and environmental needs of its citizenry. There are fifty-two indicators in three areas or dimensions: Basic Human Needs, and Foundations of Wellbeing and Opportunities which show the relative performance of nations.\n\nIndices that can be used to measure progress include:\n\nScientific progress is the idea that the scientific community learns more over time, which causes a body of scientific knowledge to accumulate. The chemists in the 19th century knew less about chemistry than the chemists in the 20th century, and they in turn knew less than the chemists in the 21st century. Looking forward, today's chemists reasonably expect that chemists in future centuries will know more than they do. \n\nThis process differs from non-science fields, such as human languages or history: the people who spoke a now-extinct language, or who lived through a historical time period, can be said to have known different things from the scholars who studied it later, but they cannot be said to know less about their lives than the modern scholars. Some valid knowledge is lost through the passage of time, and other knowledge is gained, with the result that the non-science fields do not make scientific progress towards understanding their subject areas.\n\nFrom the 18th century through late 20th century, the history of science, especially of the physical and biological sciences, was often presented as a progressive accumulation of knowledge, in which true theories replaced false beliefs. Some more recent historical interpretations, such as those of Thomas Kuhn, tend to portray the history of science in terms of competing paradigms or conceptual systems in a wider matrix of intellectual, cultural, economic and political trends. These interpretations, however, have met with opposition for they also portray the history of science as an incoherent system of incommensurable paradigms, not leading to any scientific progress, but only to the illusion of progress.\n\nAspects of social progress, as described by Condorcet, have included the disappearance of slavery, the rise of literacy, the lessening of inequalities between the sexes, reforms of harsh prisons and the decline of poverty.\n\nHow progress improved the degraded status of women in traditional society was a major theme of historians starting in the Enlightenment and continuing to today. British theorists William Robertson (1721–1793) and Edmund Burke (1729–1797), along with many of their contemporaries, remained committed to Christian- and republican-based conceptions of virtue, while working within a new Enlightenment paradigm. The political agenda related beauty, taste, and morality to the imperatives and needs of modern societies of a high level of sophistication and differentiation. Two themes in the work of Robertson and Burke—the nature of women in 'savage' and 'civilized' societies and 'beauty in distress'—reveals how long-held convictions about the character of women, especially with regard to their capacity and right to appear in the public domain, were modified and adjusted to the idea of progress and became central to an enlightened affirmation of modern European civilization.\n\nClassics experts have examined the status of women in the ancient world, concluding that in the Roman Empire, with its superior social organization, internal peace, and rule of law, allowed women to enjoy a somewhat better standing than in ancient Greece, where women were distinctly inferior. The inferior status of women in traditional China has raised the issue of whether the idea of progress requires a thoroughgoing reject of traditionalism—a belief held by many Chinese reformers in the early 20th century.\n\nHistorians Leo Marx and Bruce Mazlish asking, \"Should we in fact abandon the idea of progress as a view of the past,\" answer that there is no doubt \"that the status of women has improved markedly\" in cultures that have adopted the Enlightenment idea of progress.\n\nModernization was promoted by classical liberals in the 19th and 20th centuries, who called for the rapid modernization of the economy and society to remove the traditional hindrances to free markets and free movements of people. During the Enlightenment in Europe social commentators and philosophers began to realize that people \"themselves\" could change society and change their way of life. Instead of being made completely by gods, there was increasing room for the idea that people themselves \"made their own society\"—and not only that, as Giambattista Vico argued, \"because\" people made their own society, they could also fully comprehend it. This gave rise to new sciences, or proto-sciences, which claimed to provide new scientific knowledge about what society was like, and how one may change it for the better.\n\nIn turn, this gave rise to progressive opinion, in contrast with conservational opinion. The social conservationists were skeptical about panaceas for social ills. According to conservatives, attempts to radically remake society normally make things worse. Edmund Burke was the leading exponent of this, although later-day liberals like Hayek have espoused similar views. They argue that society changes organically and naturally, and that grand plans for the remaking of society, like the French Revolution, National Socialism and Communism hurt society by removing the traditional constraints on the exercise of power.\n\nThe scientific advances of the 16th and 17th centuries provided a basis for Francis Bacon's book the New Atlantis. In the 17th century, Bernard le Bovier de Fontenelle described progress with respect to arts and the sciences, saying that each age has the advantage of not having to rediscover what was accomplished in preceding ages. The epistemology of John Locke provided further support and was popularized by the Encyclopedists Diderot, Holbach, and Condorcet. Locke had a powerful influence on the American Founding Fathers. The first complete statement of progress is that of Turgot, in his \"A Philosophical Review of the Successive Advances of the Human Mind\" (1750). For Turgot, progress covers not only the arts and sciences but, on their base, the whole of culture—manner, mores, institutions, legal codes, economy, and society. Condorcet predicted the disappearance of slavery, the rise of literacy, the lessening of inequalities between the sexes, reforms of harsh prisons and the decline of poverty.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill's (1806–1873) ethical and political thought demonstrated faith in the power of ideas and of intellectual education for improving human nature or behavior. For those who do not share this faith the idea of progress becomes questionable.\n\nAlfred Marshall (1842–1924), a British economist of the early 20th century, was a proponent of classical liberalism. In his highly influential \"Principles of Economics\" (1890), he was deeply interested in human progress and in what is now called \"sustainable development.\" For Marshall, the importance of wealth lay in its ability to promote the physical, mental, and moral health of the general population. After World War II, the modernization and development programs undertaken in the Third World were typically based on the idea of progress.\n\nIn Russia the notion of progress was first imported from the West by Peter the Great (1672–1725). An absolute ruler, he used the concept to modernize Russia and to legitimize his monarchy (unlike its usage in Western Europe, where it was primarily associated with political opposition). By the early 19th century, the notion of progress was being taken up by Russian intellectuals and was no longer accepted as legitimate by the tsars. Four schools of thought on progress emerged in 19th-century Russia: conservative (reactionary), religious, liberal, and socialist—the latter winning out in the form of Bolshevist materialism.\n\nThe intellectual leaders of the American Revolution, such as Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Paine, Thomas Jefferson and John Adams, were immersed in Enlightenment thought and believed the idea of progress meant that they could reorganize the political system to the benefit of the human condition; both for Americans and also, as Jefferson put it, for an \"Empire of Liberty\" that would benefit all mankind.\n\nJuan Bautista Alberdi (1810–1884) was one of the most influential political theorists in Argentina. Economic liberalism was the key to his idea of progress. He promoted faith in progress, while chiding fellow Latin Americans for blind copying of American and European models. He hoped for progress through promotion of immigration, education, and a moderate type of federalism and republicanism that might serve as a transition in Argentina to true democracy.\n\nIn Mexico, Jose Mora (1795–1856) was a leader of classical liberalism in the first generation after independence, leading the battle against the conservative trinity of the army, the church, and the \"hacendados\". He envisioned progress as both a process of human development by the search for philosophical truth and as the introduction of an era of material prosperity by technological advancement. His plan for Mexican reform demanded a republican government bolstered by widespread popular education free of clerical control, confiscation and sale of ecclesiastical lands as a means of redistributing income and clearing government debts, and effective control of a reduced military force by the government. Mora also demanded the establishment of legal equality between native Mexicans and foreign residents. His program, untried in his lifetime, became the key element in the Mexican Constitution of 1857.\n\nIn Italy, the idea that progress in science and technology would lead to solutions for human ills was connected to the nationalism that united the country in 1860. The Piedmontese Prime Minister Camillo Cavour envisaged the railways as a major factor in the modernization and unification of the Italian peninsula. The new Kingdom of Italy, formed in 1861, worked to speed up the processes of modernization and industrialization that had begun in the north, but were slow to arrive in the Papal States and central Italy, and were nowhere in sight in the \"Mezzogiorno\" (that is, Southern Italy, Sicily, and Sardinia). The government sought to combat the backwardness of the poorer regions in the south and work towards augmenting the size and quality of the newly created Italian army so that it could compete on an equal footing with the powerful nations of Europe. In the same period, the government was legislating in favour of public education to fight the great problem of illiteracy, upgrade the teaching classes, improve existing schools, and procure the funds needed for social hygiene and care of the body as factors in the physical and moral regeneration of the race.\n\nIn China, in the 20th century the KMT or Nationalist party, which ruled from the 1920s to the 1940s, advocated progress. The Communists under Mao Zedong adopted western models and their ruinous projects caused mass famines. After Mao's death, however, the new regime led by Deng Xiaoping (1904–1997) and his successors aggressively promoted modernization of the economy using capitalist models and imported western technology.\n\nAmong environmentalists, there is a continuum between two opposing poles. The one pole is optimistic, progressive, and business-oriented, and endorses the classic idea of progress. For example, bright green environmentalism endorses the idea that new designs, social innovations and green technologies can solve critical environmental challenges. The other is pessimistic in respect of technological solutions, warning of impending global crisis (through climate change or peak oil, for example) and tends to reject the very idea of modernity and the myth of progress that is so central to modernization thinking. Similarly, Kirkpatrick Sale, wrote about progress as a myth benefiting the few, and a pending environmental doomsday for everyone. An example is the philosophy of Deep Ecology.\n\nSociologist Robert Nisbet said that \"No single idea has been more important than ... the Idea of Progress in Western civilization for three thousand years\", and defines five \"crucial premises\" of the idea of progress:\n\nSociologist P. A. Sorokin said, \"The ancient Chinese, Babylonian, Hindu, Greek, Roman, and most of the medieval thinkers supporting theories of rhythmical, cyclical or trendless movements of social processes were much nearer to reality than the present proponents of the linear view\". Unlike Confucianism and to a certain extent Taoism, that both search for an ideal past, the Judeo-Christian-Islamic tradition believes in the fulfillment of history, which was translated into the idea of progress in the modern age. Therefore, Chinese proponents of modernization have looked to western models. According to Thompson, the late Qing dynasty reformer, Kang Youwei, believed he had found a model for reform and \"modernisation\" in the Ancient Chinese Classics.\n\nPhilosopher Karl Popper said that progress was not fully adequate as a scientific explanation of social phenomena. More recently, Kirkpatrick Sale, a self-proclaimed neo-luddite author, wrote exclusively about progress as a myth, in an essay entitled \"Five Facets of a Myth\".\n\nIggers (1965) says that proponents of progress underestimated the extent of man's destructiveness and irrationality, while critics misunderstand the role of rationality and morality in human behavior.\n\nIn 1946, psychoanalyst Charles Baudouin claimed modernity has retained the \"corollary\" of the progress myth, the idea that the present is superior to the past, while at the same time insisting that it is free of the myth:\nA cyclical theory of history was adopted by Oswald Spengler (1880–1936), a German historian who wrote \"The Decline of the West\" in 1920. World War I, World War II, and the rise of totalitarianism demonstrated that progress was not automatic and that technological improvement did not necessarily guarantee democracy and moral advancement. British historian Arnold J. Toynbee (1889–1975) felt that Christianity would help modern civilization overcome its challenges.\n\nThe Jeffersonians said that history is not exhausted but that man may begin again in a new world. Besides rejecting the lessons of the past, they Americanized the idea of progress by democratizing and vulgarizing it to include the welfare of the common man as a form of republicanism. As Romantics deeply concerned with the past, collecting source materials and founding historical societies, the Founding Fathers were animated by clear principles. They saw man in control of his destiny, saw virtue as a distinguishing characteristic of a republic, and were concerned with happiness, progress, and prosperity. Thomas Paine, combining the spirit of rationalism and romanticism, pictured a time when America's innocence would sound like a romance, and concluded that the fall of America could mark the end of 'the noblest work of human wisdom.'\n\nHistorian J. B. Bury wrote in 1920:\n\nIn the postmodernist thought steadily gaining ground from the 1980s, the grandiose claims of the modernizers are steadily eroded, and the very concept of social progress is again questioned and scrutinized. In the new vision, radical modernizers like Joseph Stalin and Mao Zedong appear as totalitarian despots, whose vision of social progress is held to be totally deformed. Postmodernists question the validity of 19th century and 20th century notions of progress—both on the capitalist and the Marxist side of the spectrum. They argue that both capitalism and Marxism over-emphasize technological achievements and material prosperity while ignoring the value of inner happiness and . Postmodernism posits that both dystopia and utopia are one and the same, overarching grand narratives with impossible conclusions.\nSome 20th-century authors refer to the \"Myth of Progress\" to refer to the idea that the human condition will inevitably improve. In 1932, English physician Montague David Eder wrote: \"The myth of progress states that civilization has moved, is moving, and will move in a desirable direction. Progress is inevitable... Philosophers, men of science and politicians have accepted the idea of the inevitability of progress.\" Eder argues that the advancement of civilization is leading to greater unhappiness and loss of control in the environment. The strongest critics of the idea of progress complain that it remains a dominant idea in the 21st century, and shows no sign of diminished influence. As one fierce critic, British historian John Gray (b. 1948), concludes:\nRecently the idea of progress has been generalized to psychology, being related with the concept of a goal, that is, progress is understood as \"what counts as a means of advancing towards the end result of a given defined goal.\"\n\nHistorian J. B. Bury said that thought in ancient Greece was dominated by the theory of world-cycles or the doctrine of eternal return, and was steeped in a belief parallel to the Judaic \"fall of man,\" but rather from a preceding \"Golden Age\" of innocence and simplicity. Time was generally regarded as the enemy of humanity which depreciates the value of the world. He credits the Epicureans with having had a potential for leading to the foundation of a theory of progress through their materialistic acceptance of the atomism of Democritus as the explanation for a world without an intervening deity.\nRobert Nisbet and Gertrude Himmelfarb have attributed a notion of progress to other Greeks. Xenophanes said \"The gods did not reveal to men all things in the beginning, but men through their own search find in the course of time that which is better.\" Plato's Book III of \"The Laws\" depicts humanity's progress from a state of nature to the higher levels of culture, economy, and polity. Plato's \"The Statesman\" also outlines a historical account of the progress of mankind.\n\nDuring the Medieval period, science was to a large extent based on Scholastic (a method of thinking and learning from the Middle Ages) interpretations of Aristotle's work. The Renaissance of the 15th, 16th and 17th Centuries changed the mindset in Europe towards an empirical view, based on a pantheistic interpretation of Plato. This induced a revolution in curiosity about nature in general and scientific advance, which opened the gates for technical and economic advance. Furthermore, the individual potential was seen as a never-ending quest for being God-like, paving the way for a view of Man based on unlimited perfection and progress.\n\nIn the Enlightenment, French historian and philosopher Voltaire (1694–1778) was a major proponent. At first Voltaire's thought was informed by the idea of progress coupled with rationalism. His subsequent notion of the historical idea of progress saw science and reason as the driving forces behind societal advancement.\n\nImmanuel Kant (1724–1804) argued that progress is neither automatic nor continuous and does not measure knowledge or wealth, but is a painful and largely inadvertent passage from barbarism through civilization toward enlightened culture and the abolition of war. Kant called for education, with the education of humankind seen as a slow process whereby world history propels mankind toward peace through war, international commerce, and enlightened self-interest.\n\nScottish theorist Adam Ferguson (1723–1816) defined human progress as the working out of a divine plan, though he rejected predestination. The difficulties and dangers of life provided the necessary stimuli for human development, while the uniquely human ability to evaluate led to ambition and the conscious striving for excellence. But he never adequately analyzed the competitive and aggressive consequences stemming from his emphasis on ambition even though he envisioned man's lot as a perpetual striving with no earthly culmination. Man found his happiness only in effort.\n\nSome scholars consider the idea of progress that was affirmed with the Enlightenment, as a secularization of ideas from early Christianity, and a reworking of ideas from ancient Greece.\n\nIn the 19th century, Romantic critics charged that progress did not automatically better the human condition, and in some ways could make it worse. Thomas Malthus (1766–1834) reacted against the concept of progress as set forth by William Godwin and Condorcet because he believed that inequality of conditions is \"the best (state) calculated to develop the energies and faculties of man\". He said, \"Had population and food increased in the same ratio, it is probable that man might never have emerged from the savage state\". He argued that man's capacity for improvement has been demonstrated by the growth of his intellect, a form of progress which offsets the distresses engendered by the law of population.\n\nGerman philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche (1844–1900) criticized the idea of progress as the 'weakling's doctrines of optimism,' and advocated undermining concepts such as faith in progress, to allow the strong individual to stand above the plebeian masses. An important part of his thinking consists of the attempt to use the classical model of 'eternal recurrence of the same' to dislodge the idea of progress.\n\nIggers (1965) argues there was general agreement in the late 19th century that the steady accumulation of knowledge and the progressive replacement of conjectural, that is, theological or metaphysical, notions by scientific ones was what created progress. Most scholars concluded this growth of scientific knowledge and methods led to the growth of industry and the transformation of warlike societies into an industrial and pacific one. They agreed as well that there had been a systematic decline of coercion in government, and an increasing role of liberty and of rule by consent. There was more emphasis on impersonal social and historical forces; progress was increasingly seen as the result of an inner logic of society.\n\nMarx developed a theory of historical materialism. He describes the mid-19th century condition in \"The Communist Manifesto\" as follows:\n\nFurthermore, Marx described the process of social progress, which in his opinion is based on the interaction between the productive forces and the relations of production:\n\nCapitalism is thought by Marx as a process of continual change, in which the growth of markets dissolve all fixities in human life, and Marx admits that capitalism is progressive and non-reactionary. Marxism further states that capitalism, in its quest for higher profits and new markets, will inevitably sow the seeds of its own destruction. Marxists believe that, in the future, capitalism will be replaced by socialism and eventually communism.\n\nMany advocates of capitalism such as Schumpeter agreed with Marx's analysis of capitalism as a process of continual change through creative destruction, but, unlike Marx, believed and hoped that capitalism could essentially go on forever.\n\nThus, by the beginning of the 20th century, two opposing schools of thought—Marxism and liberalism—believed in the possibility and the desirability of continual change and improvement. Marxists strongly opposed capitalism and the liberals strongly supported it, but the one concept they could both agree on was modernism, a trend of thought which affirms the power of human beings to make, improve and reshape their society, with the aid of scientific knowledge, technology and practical experimentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2634236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634236", "title": "Racial fetishism", "text": "Racial fetishism\n\nRacial fetishism involves fetishizing a person or culture belonging to a race or ethnic group. This can include having strong racial preferences in dating. For example, an Asian fetish focusing on East Asian, Southeast Asian and to some extent South Asian women is quite prevalent in Australasia, North America and Scandinavia. There is also a subsection of BDSM, which involves fetishizing race called \"raceplay\".\n\nHomi K. Bhabha explains racial fetishism as a version of racist stereotyping, which is woven into colonial discourse and based on multiple/contradictory and splitting beliefs, similar to the disavowal which Freud discusses. Bhabha defines colonial discourse as that which activates the simultaneous \"recognition and disavowal of racial/cultural/historical differences\" and whose goal is to define the colonized as 'other,' but also as fixed and knowable stereotypes. Racial fetishism involves contradictory belief systems where the 'other' is both demonized and idolized.\n\nFeminist writer Anne McClintock is interested in opening up the discourse of fetishism to stray away from the phallus and the scene of castration. One of her central arguments is that although race, class, and gender are all different and articulated categories of being, they always exist \"\"in and through\" relation to each other,\" and therefore discussions of racial fetishism also always have to do with class and gender as well. McClintock does\n\nnot see racial fetishism as stemming from an overdetermined relation to the castration scene. Reducing racial fetishism to the phallic drama runs the risk of flattening out the hierarchies of social difference, thereby relegating race and class to secondary status along a primarily sexual signifying chain\".\n\nFetishism can take multiple forms and has branched off to incorporate different races. English naturalist and geologist, Charles Darwin, can offer some observations in regards to why some people might find other races more attractive than their own. Attraction can be viewed as a mechanism for choosing a healthy mate. People's minds have evolved to recognize aspects of other peoples' biology that makes them an appropriate or good mate. This area of theory is called optimal outbreeding hypothesis.\n\nFollowing the globalization of China, the perception of Westerners changed drastically. As China opened up to the outside world, representations of Westerners shifted from enemies of China to individuals of great power, money and pleasure. The white woman, according to Slavoj Žižek, Slovenian psychoanalytic philosopher and researcher at the University of Ljubljana, has become fetishized in modern Chinese society as a result of her perceived role in the globalized commodity culture. In a study of Chinese advertisements from 1990 to 1995, marketed solely to the Chinese people, it was concluded that in China, white women are symbols of strength and sexuality. The body language expressed by Chinese models demonstrate subordination, defined by the covering of faces and the tilting of heads. On the contrary, Chinese advertisements depict white women as powerful and uninhibited. They stare straight into the camera, do not cover their mouths while laughing, and hold their heads high.\n\nAccording to Rey Chow, cultural critic and professor at Duke University, the fetishism of white women in Chinese media does not have to do with sex; instead Chow describes it as a type of commodity fetishism. White women are seen as a representation of what China does not have: an image of a woman as something more than the heterosexual opposite to man. On the contrary, Perry Johansson, author of the \"Postcolonial Studies Journal\" article, \"Consuming the other: The fetish of the western woman in Chinese advertising and popular culture,\" argues that the racial fetish of white women in Chinese culture does have something to do with sex. White women represent a shift in the power dynamics between women and men. As a result, white women are a source of fear.\n\nAccording to an article from the \"Washington and Lee Journal of Civil Rights and Social Justice\", the \"Asian fetish\" syndrome is born out of the male desire for dominance and the stereotype of Asian women as individuals open to domination. For example, following the 1970s and a peak in the American feminist movement, many white men turned to mail-order bride companies in search of a loyal, understanding, and subservient partner. They saw women of their own race as too career-oriented and strong-willed. Asian women were the antithesis to their perception of white women. While white women resisted powerlessness and subjugation to the white man, Asian women were seen as open to the subjugation, even depicted as enjoying it.\n\nThe song \"Yellow Fever\" by The Bloodhound Gang includes lyrics such as, \"She's an oriental rug cause I lay her where I please,\" and \"Then I blindfold her with dental floss and get down on her knees.\" Both of these instances exemplify the stereotype of Asians as submissive. Margaret Cho has labeled Gwen Stefani's Harajuku Girls as a \"minstrel show\" because they represent fetishized East Asian stereotypes. The girls follow Stefani around on tour and are contractually obligated not to speak English in public. The performer had \"renamed\" them corresponding to her album title and clothing brand, L.A.M.B.: Love, Angel, Music, and Baby.\n\nFurthermore, there have been many cases of Asian fetishism leading to criminal activity. In one case in 2000, two men, David Dailey and Edmund Ball, abducted and blindfolded two Japanese girls in Washington, one who was eighteen and the other who was nineteen. Ball specifically targeted these Asian students because he thought that they were submissive and were less likely to report sexual abuse. In another case, in 2005, Michael Lohman, a doctoral student at Princeton University, was charged by the state of New Jersey for reckless endangerment, theft, harassment as well as tampering with a food product. Michael had cut locks of hair off at least nine Asian women. He also poured his semen and urine into the drinks of Asian Princeton students more than fifty times. In his apartment, Michael also had mittens filled with hairs of Asian women.\n\nAfter the Civil War, black men were more commonly falsely accused for the rape of white women compared to white men. Sexual relationships between black men and white women were frowned upon. \n\nIn 1986, Robert Mapplethorpe had a photographic art show titled Black Males, showing photographs of naked black men exclusively. This work has been highly criticized for fetishizing the black male body, notably by Kobena Mercer in his aforementioned essay. Though it was not necessarily the artist's intention to portray these men as fetishized objects, they have been perceived that way by many audiences, especially in relation to some of his other works concerning gay male BDSM practices. The latter works examine an actual subculture of sexuality that is enacted by the photographic subjects: the men in the photos are wearing/using their own gear and clothing, putting their fetish(es) on display. However, in Mapplethorpe's photos of black men, the subjects are not doing anything but existing as nude bodies, they are hyper-sexualized by the camera, therefore they become the fetish objects.\n\nThe fetishization of black women expanded during the Colonial Era, as some white male slave owners raped their black, female slaves. They justified their actions by labeling the women as hyper-sexual property. These labels solidified into what is commonly referred to as the \"Jezebel\" stereotype.\n\nCharmaine Nelson discusses the way black females are presented in paintings, with an emphasis on nude paintings. Nelson argues that every nude painting feeds into the voyeuristic male gaze, but the way black women are painted has even more undertones.\" The black female body defies the white male subject's desire for a single subject of 'pure' origin in two ways: firstly, through a sexual 'otherness' as woman, and secondly through a racial and colour 'otherness' as black. It is the combined power of these two markers of social location which has enabled western artists to represent black women at the margins of societal boundaries of propriety.\" The black woman is considered a fetish in these paintings and she is only viewed in a sexual lens.\n\nOne of the more recent popular discourses around the fetishization of black women surrounds the release of Nicki Minaj's popular song, \"Anaconda\" in 2014. The entire song and music video revolves around the largeness of black women's bottoms. While some praise Minaj's work for its embrace of female sexuality, many believe that this song continues to reduce black women to be the focus of the male gaze.\n\nMestizo Latina women face racial fetishism much more than their male counterparts. They are seen as something that is tropical. Through media they are portrayed to always be in bright colors, having long brown hair, red lips, curvaceous figure, and revealing clothing. Unlike Latino/Chicano men, Latina/Chicana women have hypersexualized bodies.  A perfect example of how Latina women are depicted is Jennifer Lopez. When she is on a magazine cover or in a photo shoot, her butt is what is emphasized in the picture. Her butt is seemingly abnormal, because it exceeds the standards for a \"normal\" white butt. This hyper-buttocks places Jennifer Lopez in the category of the other. It is interesting though, because the fact that Latina/Chicanas are in the category of the other, it makes them more desirable. They are perceived as an exotic race that is hypersexual. This tradition excludes Latina/Chicanas from being a part of the norm and they are forever to be viewed as foreigners and a threat to \"true\" American culture.\n\nAccording to work of George Gerbner, through extended exposure to the very consistent and persistent ideas expressed on television, people tend to view what is being broadcast as a reality with no regard for it veracity. Supposedly the more television someone watches, the more likely they are to see the world in the same lens as the televised world. This means that any ideals in regards to certain races, can influence the way people perceive said races. The way that Latino/a men and women have been portrayed in the media has created a racial fetish on their bodies and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "48811741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48811741", "title": "Rene van Helsdingen", "text": "Rene van Helsdingen\n\nRene Peter Onno Rubiono van Helsdingen (born 25 February 1957) is a Dutch pianist and composer. \n\nHe studied classical music with Komter Loeber in Blaricum in the Netherlands from 1962–72. Then he studied jazz music with Terry Trotter and Lazlo Cser in Los Angeles in 1979. His earliest influences include Oscar Peterson, McCoy Tyner and Bill Evans. \n\nOver the years pianist René has recorded and produced for many different labels, such as Virgin, Timeless, WEA, Dureco, Zebra Acoustic, Pacific Music, Turning Point records, Munich Records, demajors Independent Music Industry Jakarta and his own labels: Relukreul records, and Helsdingen Music, The Netherlands. Helsdingen writes most of his repertoire. Australian newspaper \"The Age\" characterised him as \"A rewarding pianist who can play comfortably in the groove, or create more impressionistic patterns, or quiet, subtle musings. Perhaps the most notable quality of his solos is brevity. René allows himself a few extended workouts and avoids the trap of repeating himself or overstating his case.\" \n\nHelsdingen has organized many successful tours, projects and festivals sponsored by ngo’s , governmental institutions, companies to which he was responsible with regard to the control over the budgets made available.\n"}
{"id": "26044155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26044155", "title": "Sallie Gardner at a Gallop", "text": "Sallie Gardner at a Gallop\n\nSallie Gardner at a Gallop, also known as The Horse in Motion, is a series of photographs consisting of a galloping horse, the result of a photographic experiment by Eadweard Muybridge on June 15, 1878. Sometimes cited as an early silent film, the series and later experiments like it were precursors to the development of motion pictures. The series consists of 24 photographs shot in rapid succession that were shown on a zoopraxiscope. It was released throughout 1878–1880. Muybridge was commissioned by Leland Stanford, the industrialist and horseman, who was interested in gait analysis. The purpose of the shoot was to determine whether a galloping horse ever lifts all four feet completely off the ground during the gait; at this speed, the human eye cannot break down the action. The photographs showed that all four feet are indeed sometimes simultaneously off the ground, though this occurs only when the feet are \"gathered\" beneath the body, not when the fore and hindlimbs are \"extended\" as sometimes depicted in older paintings.\n\nLeland Stanford had a large farm at which he bred, trained and raced both Standardbreds, used for trotting races in which a driver rides in a sulky while driving the horse; and Thoroughbreds, ridden by jockeys and raced at a gallop. He was interested in improving the performance of his horses of both types and in the scientific questions of their gait action.\n\nDuring July 1877, the photographer Muybridge tried to settle Stanford's question with a series of progressively clearer, single photographs of Stanford's trotter, Occident, at a racing-speed gait at the Union Park Racetrack in Sacramento, California. He captured the horse in a photograph with all four feet off the ground. One of the prints was sent to the local California press, but because they found that the film negative was retouched, the press dismissed it. As negative retouching was an acceptable and common practice at the time, the photograph won Muybridge an award at the Twelfth San Francisco Industrial Exhibition. Lantern slides of the trotting horse photographs survive.\n\nThe following year, Stanford financed Muybridge's next project: to use multiple cameras to photograph a Thoroughbred at a gallop at Stanford's farm in Palo Alto on June 15, 1878, in the presence of the press. Muybridge photographed the businessman's Kentucky-bred mare named Sallie Gardner running.\n\nHe had arranged the cameras along a track parallel to the horse's path. Muybridge used 24 cameras which were apart. The shutters were controlled by trip wires triggered by the horse's legs. The photographs were taken in succession one twenty-fifth of a second apart, with the shutter speeds calculated to be less than 1/2000 s. The jockey Domm set the mare to travel at a speed of 1:40, which meant that she was galloping at a mile per 1 minute and 40 seconds, equivalent to .\n\nThe stop-action photographs showed the mare lifted all four legs off the ground at certain points during the gallop. Run together, the photographs produced the effect of the horse in motion, or a film. Muybridge produced his prints onsite; when the press noticed the broken straps on Sallie's saddle in the prints, they became convinced of the prints' authenticity. \"Scientific American\" was among the publications that carried reports of Muybridge's groundbreaking 1878 work. While there have been rumors that Stanford had a large bet riding on the outcome of the study, the historian Phillip Prodger has said, \"I personally believe that the story of the bet is apocryphal. There are really no primary accounts of this bet ever having taken place. Everything is hearsay and secondhand information.\"\n\nIn 1880, Muybridge first projected moving images on a screen when he gave a presentation at the California School of Fine Arts; this was the earliest known motion picture exhibition. He later met with Thomas Edison, who had recently invented the phonograph. Edison went on to invent the kinetoscope, the precursor of the movie camera.\n\nThe relationship between Muybridge and Stanford became turbulent in 1882. Stanford commissioned the book \"The Horse in Motion: as Shown by Instantaneous Photography\", written by his friend and horseman J. D. B. Stillman; it was published by Osgood and Company. The book claimed to feature instantaneous photography, but showed 100 illustrations based on Muybridge's photographs taken of Stanford's mare Sallie. Muybridge was not credited in the book except noted as a Stanford employee and in a technical appendix based on an account he had written. As a result, the Britain's Royal Society of Arts, which earlier had offered to finance further photographic studies by Muybridge of animal movement, withdrew the funding. His suit against Stanford to gain credit was dismissed out of court.\n\nMuybridge soon gained support for two years of studies under the auspices of the University of Pennsylvania. The university published his current and previous work as an extensive portfolio of 780 collotype plates, under the title \"Animal Locomotion: An Electro-photographic Investigation of Consecutive Phases of Animal Movements,\" 1872–1885. The collotype plates measured 19 by 24 inches, each were contained in 36 by 36-inch frames; the total number of images were approximately 20,000. The published plates included 514 of men and women in motion, 27 plates of abnormal male and female movement, 16 of children, 5 plates of adult male hand movement, and 221 with animal subjects.\n\nThe \"Sallie Gardner\" experiment was the subject of a Google doodle on April 9, 2012 (on the 182nd anniversary of Muybridge's birthday).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23594301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23594301", "title": "San Giovanni in Tuba", "text": "San Giovanni in Tuba\n\nSan Giovanni in Tuba is a church in San Giovanni di Duino, a hamlet which forms part of the commune of Duino in the Province of Trieste, north-east Italy. It is located at the resurgence of the Timavo and is notable for the remains of a palaeo-Christian basilica.\n\nThere are remains indicating that in the beginning it was a pagan temple dedicated to god Diomedes, Temavus, Hercules and Saturn.\nIn 568 with the arrival of the Lombards in 610, or with the invasion of the Avars, the relics that had been laid under the altar was hidden in another place. The invasion of the Hungarians completely destroyed the Benedictine Monastery.\n\nIn 1112 the patriarch Vodolrico ordered the reconstruction work of the church. In mid-1400 the Walsee Duino, feudal lords of the Timavo resurgences and its port, added a Gothic apse. Further damage to the structure of the church were caused in the 15th and 16th centuries by the Turks, and a restoration was undertaken in 1519 by Giovanni Hoffer, Captain of Duino in 1642, when the bell tower was built in Venetian style.\n\nThe church of San Giovanni in Tuba was heavily damaged in 1917 during the World War I. The frescoes were almost all lost. What was saved is the floor of the ancient Christian basilica, a polychrome mosaic with geometric motifs including Solomon’s knots, and floral designs. \n\nToday, mass is not celebrated in the Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "9647445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9647445", "title": "Serial film", "text": "Serial film\n\nA serial, film serial, movie serial or chapter play, is a motion picture form popular during the first half of the 20th century, consisting of a series of short subjects exhibited in consecutive order at one theater, generally advancing weekly, until the series is completed. Generally, each serial involves a single set of characters, protagonistic and antagonistic, involved in a single story, which has been edited into chapters after the fashion of serial fiction and the episodes cannot be shown out of order or as a single or a random collection of short subjects. \n\nEach chapter was screened at a movie theater for one week, and ended with a \"cliffhanger,\" in which characters found themselves in perilous situations with little apparent chance of escape. Viewers had to return each week to see the cliffhangers resolved and to follow the continuing story. Movie serials were especially popular with children, and for many youths in the first half of the 20th century a typical Saturday matinee at the movies included at least one chapter of a serial, along with animated cartoons, newsreels, and two feature films.\n\nMany serials were Westerns, since those were the least expensive to film. Besides Westerns, though, there were films covering many genres, including crime fiction, espionage, comic book or comic strip characters, science fiction, and jungle adventures. Although most serials were filmed economically, some were made at significant expense. The \"Flash Gordon\" serial and its sequels, for instance, were major productions in their times.\n\nSerials were a popular form of movie entertainment dating back to Edison's \"What Happened to Mary\" of 1912. There appear to be older serials, however, such as the 1910 Deutsche Vitaskop 5 episode \"Arsene Lupin Contra Sherlock Holmes\", based upon the Maurice LeBlanc novel, and a possible but unconfirmed \"Raffles\" serial in 1911. Usually filmed with low budgets, serials were action-packed stories that usually involved a hero (or heroes) battling an evil villain and rescuing damsel in distress. The villain would continually place the hero into inescapable deathtraps, or the heroine would be placed into a deathtrap and the hero would bravely come to her rescue, usually pulling her away from certain death only moments before she met her doom. The hero and heroine would face one trap after another, battling countless thugs and lackeys, before finally defeating the villain.\n\nMany famous clichés of action-adventure movies had their origins in the serials. The popular term cliffhanger was developed as a plot device in film serials (though its origins have been traced by some historians to the Sherlock Holmes stories of Arthur Conan Doyle or the earlier \"A Pair of Blue Eyes\" by Thomas Hardy from 1873), and it comes from the many times that the hero or heroine would end up hanging over a cliff, usually as the villain gloated above and waited for them to plummet hundreds of metres to their deaths. Other popular clichés included the heroine or hero trapped in a burning building, being trampled by horses, knocked unconscious in a car as it goes over a cliff, crashing in an airplane, and watching as the burning fuse of a nearby bundle of dynamite sparked and sputtered its way towards the deadly explosive (at the beginning of the next chapter the endangered character usually simply got up and walked away with only minor scrapes). The popular Indiana Jones movies are a well-known, romantic pastiche of the serials' clichéd plot elements and devices.\n\nThe silent era was the zenith of the movie serial and serial stars from this period were major stars such as Pearl White, who starred in the quintessential silent serial \"The Perils of Pauline,\" which still ranks among the best known silent films. Ruth Roland, Marin Sais, Ann Little, and Helen Holmes were also early leading serial queens. Most of these serials put beautiful young women in jeopardy week after week. The serials starring women were the most popular during the silent period but in the sound era few serials had a female character in the major role.\nYears after their first release, serials gained new life at \"Saturday Matinees\", theatrical showings on Saturday mornings aimed directly at children. For that reason, serials are sometimes called \"Saturday Matinee Serials\", even though they were originally shown with feature films.\n\nIn the early days of television in the United States, movie serials were often broadcast, one chapter a day, and in the late 1970s and 1980s, they were often revived on BBC television in the United Kingdom. Many have been released in home video formats.\n\nBesides the hero or heroine, some terms are used to define villains and supporting players:\n\n\nFamous American serials of the silent era include \"The Perils of Pauline\" and \"The Exploits of Elaine\" made by Pathé Frères and starring Pearl White. Another popular serial was the 119-episode \"The Hazards of Helen\" made by Kalem Studios and starring Helen Holmes for the first forty-eight episodes then Helen Gibson for the remainder. Other major studios of the silent era, such as Vitagraph and Essanay Studios, produced serials, as did Warner Bros., Fox, and Universal. Several independent companies (for example, Mascot Pictures) made Western serials. Four silent Tarzan serials were also made.\n\nEurope had its own serials: in France Victorin-Hippolyte Jasset launched his series of Nick Carter films in 1908, and the idea of the episodic crime adventure was developed particularly by Louis Feuillade in \"Fantômas\" (1913–14), \"Les Vampires\" (1915), and \"Judex\" (1916); in Germany, \"Homunculus\" (1916), directed by Otto Rippert, was a six-part horror serial about an artificial creature.\n\nThe arrival of sound technology made it costlier to produce serials, so that they were no longer as profitable on a flat rental basis. Further, the Great Depression made it impossible for many of the smaller companies that produced serials to upgrade to sound, and they went out of business. Only one serial specialty company, Mascot Pictures, transitioned from silent to sound filmmaking. Universal Pictures also kept its serial unit alive through the transition.\n\nIn the early 1930s a handful of independent companies tried their hand at making serials, but managed only two or three, including the once-prolific Weiss Brothers. The Weisses bought a little time when Columbia Pictures decided to take a try at serials, and contracted with them (as Adventure Serials Inc.) to make three chapterplays. They were successful enough that Columbia then established its own serial unit and the Weisses essentially disappeared from the serial scene. This was in 1937, and Columbia was probably inspired by the previous year's serial blockbuster success at Universal, \"Flash Gordon\", the first serial ever to play at a major theater on Broadway; and by the success of that same year of the newly created Republic Pictures, which dedicated itself to a program of serials and westerns, eschewing major productions in their favor. The creation of Republic involved the absorption of Mascot Pictures, so that by 1937, serial production was now in the hands of three companies only - Universal, Columbia, and Republic, with Republic quickly becoming the acknowledged leader in quality serial product. Each company turned out four to five serials per year, of 12 to 15 episodes each, a pace they all kept up until the end of World War II when, in 1946, Universal dropped its serial unit along with its B-picture unit and renamed its production department Universal-International Pictures. Republic and Columbia continued unchallenged, with about four serials per year each, Republic fixing theirs at 12 chapters each while Columbia fixed at fifteen.\n\nBy the mid-1950s, however, episodic television series and the sale of older serials to TV syndicators by all the current and past major sound serial producers, together with the loss of audience attendance at Saturday matinees in general, made serial-making a losing proposition.\n\nThere have been several post-1950s attempts at reviving or recalling cliffhanger serials, by both fans and professional studios, and serials were often spoofed in cartoons of the 1960s.\n\nAn early attempt at a low-budget Western serial, filmed in color, was entitled \"The Silver Avenger.\" One or two chapters exist of this effort on 16mm film but it is not known whether the serial was ever completed.\n\nThe best-known fan-made chapter play is the four-chapter, silent 16mm amateur effort made to resemble Republic and Columbia serials of the 1940s \"Captain Celluloid vs. the Film Pirates,\" completed in 1966. The plot involved a masked villain named The Master Duper, one of three members of a Film Commission who attempts to acquire the only known prints of various lost nitrate films, and the heroic Captain Celluloid, who wears a costume reminiscent of that of the Black Commando in Columbia Pictures' serial \"The Secret Code,\" is determined to uncover him. Roles in the serial are played by, among others, film historians and serial fans Alan Barbour and William K. Everson.\n\nIn the 1970s, serial fan Blackie Seymour shot a complete 15-chapter serial called \"The Return of the Copperhead.\" Mr. Seymour's only daughter, who operated the camera at the age of 8, attests that as of 2008 the serial was indeed filmed but the raw footage remains in cans, unedited... \"perhaps someday\" to be assembled.\n\nIn 2001, \"King of the Park Rangers,\" a 1-chapter sound serial was released by Cliffhanger Productions on VHS video tape in sepia. It concerned the adventures of a Park Ranger named Patricia King and an FBI Agent who track down a trio of killers out to find buried treasure in the New Jersey Pine Barrens.\n\nA second 10-chapter serial, \"The Dangers of Deborah,\" in which a female reporter and a criminologist fight to uncover the identity of a mysterious villain named The Terror, was released by Cliffhanger Productions in 2008.\n\nIn 2006, Lamb4 Productions created its own homage to the film serials of the 1940s with its own serial titled \"Wildcat.\" The story revolves around a super hero named Wildcat and his attempts to save the fictional Rite City from a masked villain known as the Roach. This 8-chapter serial was based heavily on popular super hero serials such as \"Batman and Robin,\" \"Captain America,\" and \"The Adventures of Captain Marvel.\" After its premiere, \"Wildcat\" was posted on the official Lamb4 Productions YouTube channel for public viewing.\n\nThe serial format was used with stories on the original run of \"The Mickey Mouse Club\" (1955–58), with each chapter running about six to ten minutes. The longer-running dramatic serials included \"Corky and White Shadow\", \"The Adventures of Spin and Marty\", \"The Hardy Boys: The Mystery of the Applegate Treasure\", \"The Boys of the Western Sea\", \"The Secret of Mystery Lake\", \"The Hardy Boys: The Mystery of Ghost Farm\", and \"The Adventures of Clint and Mac\".\n\nOther Disney programs shown on \"Walt Disney Presents\" in segments (such as \"The Scarecrow of Romney Marsh\", \"The Swamp Fox\", \"The Secret of Boyne Castle\", \"The Mooncussers\", and \"The Prince and the Pauper\") and Disney feature films (including \"Treasure Island\"; \"The Three Lives of Thomasina\"; \"The Story of Robin Hood and His Merrie Men\"; \"Rob Roy, the Highland Rogue\"; and \"The Fighting Prince of Donegal\") edited into segments for television presentation often had a cliffhanger-serial-like feel. \n\nIn England, in the 1950s and 60s, low-budget 6-chapter serials such as \"Dusty Bates\" and \"Masters of Venus\" were released theatrically, but these were not particularly well-regarded or remembered.\n\nOf course, perhaps the greatest number of serialized television programs to feature any single character were those made featuring \"Doctor Who\", the BBC character introduced in 1963. \"Doctor Who\" serials would run anywhere from 3 to 12 episodes and were shown in weekly segments as had been the original theatrical cliffhangers. \"Doctor Who\" was syndicated in the US as early as 1974 but did not gain a following in America until the mid-1980s when episodes featuring Tom Baker reached its shores.\n\nThe 1960s cartoon show \"Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\" included two serial-style episodes per program. These spoofed the cliffhanger serial form. Within the Rocky and Bullwinke show, the recurring but non-serialized \"Dudley Do-Right\", specifically parodied the damsel in distress (Nell Fenwick) being tied to railroad tracks by arch villain Snidely Whiplash and rescued by the noble but clueless Dudley. The Hanna–Barbera \"Perils of Penelope Pitstop\" was a takeoff on the silent serials \"The Perils of Pauline\" and \"The Iron Claw,\" which featured Paul Lynde as the voice of the villain Sylvester Sneakley, alias \"The Hooded Claw\".\n\n\"Danger Island,\" a multi-part story in under-10-minute episodes, was shown on the Saturday morning Banana Splits program in the late 1960s. Episodes were short, full of wild action and usually ended on a cliffhanger. This serial is notable for having been directed by Richard Donner and featuring the first African American action hero in a chapter play. The violence present in most of the episodes, though much of it was deliberately comical and would not be considered shocking today, also raised concerns at a time when violence in children's TV was at issue.\n\nOn February 27, 1979, NBC broadcast the first episode of an hour-long weekly television series \"Cliffhangers!\", which had three segments, each with a different serial: a horror story (\"The Curse of Dracula\", starring Michael Nouri), a science fiction/western (\"The Secret Empire,\" (inspired by 1935's \"The Phantom Empire\") starring Geoffrey Scott as Marshal Jim Donner and Mark Lenard as Emperor Thorval) and a mystery (\"Stop Susan Williams!\", starring Susan Anton, Ray Walston as Bob Richards, and Albert Paulsen as the villain Anthony Korf). Unfortunately, though final episodes were shot, the series was canceled and the last program aired on May 1, 1979 before all of the serials could conclude; only \"The Curse of Dracula\" was resolved.\n\nIn 2006, Dark Horse Indie films, through Image Entertainment, released a 6-chapter serial parody called \"Monarch of the Moon,\" detailing the adventures of a hero named the Yellow Jacket, who could control Yellow Jackets with his voice, battled \"Japbots\", and traveled to the moon. The end credits promised a second serial, \"Commie Commandos From Mars.\" Dark Horse attempted to promote the release as a just-found, never-before-released serial made in 1946, but suppressed by the US Government.\n\nThe classic sound serial, particularly in its Republic format, has a first episode of about 30 minutes (approximately three reels in length) and begins with reports of a masked, secret, or unsuspected villain menacing an unspecific part of America. This episode traditionally has the most detailed credits at the beginning, often with pictures of the actors with their names and that of the character they play. Often there follows a montage of scenes lifted from the cliffhangers of previous serials to depict the ways in which the master criminal was a serial killer with a motive. In the first episode, various suspects or \"candidates\" who may, in secret, be this villain are presented, and the viewer often hears the voice but does not see the face of this mastermind commanding his \"lead villain\", similar to a sergeant, whom the viewer sees in just about every episode.\n\nIn the succeeding weeks (usually 11 to 14) thereafter, an episode nearly 20 minutes (approximately two reels) in length was presented, in which the \"lead villain\" and lesser thugs commit crimes in various places, fight the hero, and trap someone to make the ending a cliffhanger. Many of the episodes have clues, dialogue, and events leading the viewer to think that any of the candidates were the mastermind. As serials were made by writing the whole script first and then slicing it into portions filmed at various sites, often the same location would be used several times in the serial, often given different signage, or none at all, just being referred to differently. There would often be a female love interest of the male hero, or a female hero herself, but as the audience was mainly children, there was no hugging and kissing.\n\nIn 1938, Republic introduced the \"economy episode\" (or \"recap chapter\") in which the characters summarize or reminisce about their adventures, so as to introduce showing those scenes again (in the manner of a clip show in modern television). This type of episode usually had a cheap, mechanical cliffhanger, like a time bomb rather than being unconscious in a runaway vehicle.\n\nThe beginning of each chapter would bring the story up to date by repeating the last few minutes of the previous chapter, and then revealing how the main character escaped. Often the reprised scene would add an element not seen in the previous close, but unless it contradicted something shown previously, audiences accepted the explanation. On rare occasions the filmmakers would depend on the audience not remembering details of the previous week's chapter, using alternate outcomes that did not exactly match the previous episode's cliffhanger.\n\nThe last episode was sometimes a bit longer than most, for its tasks were to unmask the head villain (who usually was someone completely unsuspected), wrap up the loose ends, and end with a triumphal proclamation, followed by a joke – and sometimes a kiss (provided that the story supplied a heroine to receive it).\n\nThe major studios had their own retinues of actors and writers, their own prop departments, existing sets, stock footage, and music libraries. The early independent studios had none of these, except for being able to rent the sets of independent producers of western features.\n\nThe firms saved money by reusing the same cliffhangers, stunt and special effect sequences over the years. Mines or tunnels flooded often, even in \"Flash Gordon\", and the same model cars and trains went off the same cliffs and bridges. Republic had a Packard limousine and a Ford Woodie station wagon used in serial after serial so they could match the shots with the stock footage from the model or previous stunt driving. Three different serials had them chasing the Art Deco sound truck, required for location shooting, for various reasons. Male fistfighters all wore hats so that the change from actor to stunt double would not be caught so easily. A rubber liner on the hatband of the stuntman's fedora would make a seal on the stuntman's head, so the hat would stay on during fight scenes.\n\nExposition of what led up to the previous episode's cliffhanger was usually displayed on placards with a photograph of one of the characters on it. In 1938, Universal brought the first \"scrolling text\" exposition to the serial, which George Lucas first used in \"Star Wars\" in 1977 and then in all of the following \"Star Wars\" films. As this would have required subcontracting the optical effects, Republic saved money by not using it.\n\nUniversal had been making serials since the 1910s, and continued to service its loyal neighborhood-theater customers with four serials annually. The studio made news in 1929 by hiring Tim McCoy to star in its first all-talking serial, \"The Indians Are Coming!\" Epic footage from this western serial turned up again and again in later serials and features. In 1936 Universal scored a coup by licensing the popular comic-strip character Flash Gordon for the screen; the serial was a smash hit, and was even booked into first-run theaters that usually did not bother with chapter plays. Universal followed it up with more pop-culture icons: The Green Hornet and Ace Drummond from radio, and Smilin' Jack and Buck Rogers from newspapers. Universal was more story-conscious than the other studios, and cast its serials with \"name\" actors recognizable from feature films: Lon Chaney, Jr., Béla Lugosi, Dick Foran, The Dead End Kids, Kent Taylor, Robert Armstrong, Irene Hervey, and Johnny Mack Brown, among many others. In the 1940s Universal's serials employed urban and/or wartime themes, incorporating newsreel footage of actual disasters. The 1942 serial \"Gang Busters\" is perhaps the best of Universal's urban serials; Universal often cannibalized it for future cliffhangers. Don Winslow of the Navy may exemplify Universal's best war-themed chapterplay. The studio's reliance on stock footage for the big action scenes was certainly economical, but it often hurt the overall quality of the films. When the studio reorganized as Universal-International, it shut down most of the production units, including the serial crew. Universal's last serial was \"The Mysterious Mr. M\" (1946).\n\nRepublic was the successor to Mascot Pictures, a serial specialist. Writers and directors were already geared to staging exciting films, and Republic improved on Mascot, adding music to underscore the action, and staging more elaborate stunts. Republic was one of Hollywood's smaller studios, but its serials have been hailed as some of the best, especially those directed by John English and William Witney. In addition to solid screenwriting that many critics thought was quite accomplished, the firm also introduced choreographed fistfights, which often included the stuntmen (usually the ones portraying the villains, never the heroes) throwing things in desperation at one another in every fight to heighten the action. Republic serials are noted for outstanding special effects, such as large-scale explosions and demolitions, and the more fantastic visuals like Captain Marvel and Rocketman flying. Most of the trick scenes were engineered by Howard and Theodore Lydecker. Republic was able to get the rights to the newspaper comic character Dick Tracy, the radio character The Lone Ranger, and the comic book characters Captain America, Captain Marvel, and Spy Smasher. Republic's serial scripts were written by a team of up to seven writers. By 1950 Republic had amassed an impressive backlog of action highlights, which were cleverly re-edited into later serials to save money. Most of the studio's serials of the 1950s were written by only one man, Ronald Davidson—Davidson had produced many serials. Republic's last serial was \"King of the Carnival\" (1955), a reworking of 1939's \"Daredevils of the Red Circle\" using some of its footage.\n\nColumbia made several serials using its own staff and facilities (1938–1939 and 1943–1945), but usually subcontracted its serial production to outside producers: the Weiss Brothers (1937–1938), Larry Darmour (1939–1942), and Sam Katzman (1945–1956). Columbia built many serials around name-brand heroes. From newspaper comics, they got Terry and the Pirates, Mandrake the Magician, The Phantom, and Brenda Starr, Reporter; from the comic books, Blackhawk, Congo Bill, time traveler Brick Bradford, and Batman and Superman (although this last owed more to its radio incarnation, which the credits acknowledged); from radio, Jack Armstrong and Hop Harrigan; from the pulp novels the Spider and The Shadow (despite also being a very popular radio series); from the British novelist Edgar Wallace, the first archer-superhero, The Green Archer; and even from television: Captain Video. Columbia's early serials were very well received by audiences—exhibitors voted \"The Spider's Web\" (1938) the number-one serial of the year. Former silent-serial director James W. Horne co-directed \"The Spider's Web\", and his work secured him a permanent position in Columbia's serial unit. Horne had been a comedy specialist in the 1930s, often working with Laurel and Hardy, and most of his Columbia serials are played tongue-in-cheek, with exaggerated villainy and improbable heroics (the hero takes on six men in a fistfight and \"wins\"). After Horne's death in 1942, the studio's serial output was somewhat more sober, but still aimed primarily at the juvenile audience. \"Batman\" (1943) was quite popular, and \"Superman\" (1948) was phenomenally successful. Spencer Gordon Bennet, another silent-serial veteran, directed most of the later Columbia serials. His western-themed efforts were suitably accomplished, but Columbia cut corners in every respect until the quality of the serials suffered. Columbia also used cartoon animation instead of more expensive special effects with its science-fictional serials. By the 1950s Columbia serials were low-budget affairs, consisting mostly of action scenes and cliffhanger endings from older productions, and even employing the same actors for new scenes tying the old footage together. Columbia outlasted the other serial producers, its last being \"Blazing the Overland Trail\" (1956).\n\nFilm serials released to the home video market from original masters include the majority of Republic titles (with a few exceptions, such as \"Ghost of Zorro\")—which were released by Republic Pictures Home Video on VHS and sometimes laserdisc (sometimes under their re-release titles) mostly from transfers made from the original negatives, \"The Shadow\", and \"Blackhawk\", both released by Sony only on VHS, and DVD versions of \"Flash Gordon\", \"Flash Gordon's Trip to Mars\", and \"Flash Gordon Conquers the Universe\" (Hearst), \"Adventures of Captain Marvel\" (Republic Pictures), \"Batman\" and \"Batman and Robin\" (Sony), \"Superman\" and \"Atom Man vs. Superman\" (Warner), and \"The Green Hornet\" (VCI). Notable restorations of partially lost or forgotten serials such as \"The Adventures of Tarzan\", \"Beatrice Fairfax\", \"The Lone Ranger Rides Again\", \"Daredevils of the West\" and \"King of the Mounties\" have been developed and made available to fans by The Serial Squadron. A gray market for DVDs also exists consisting of DVD companies releasing titles from privately owned 16mm prints or even copies of previously released VHS or laserdisc editions, and various websites and internet auctions. These DVDs vary between good and poor quality, depending on their source. In 2017, Adventures of Captain Marvel became the first serial to be released on Blu-Ray.\n\nSeveral serials are now in the public domain. These can often be downloaded legally over the internet or purchased as cheap DVDs. The list of public domain serials includes:\n\n\n\n\nThe \"golden age\" of serials is generally from 1936 to 1945.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211430", "title": "Sexual attraction", "text": "Sexual attraction\n\nSexual attraction is attraction on the basis of sexual desire or the quality of arousing such interest. Sexual attractiveness or sex appeal is an individual's ability to attract the sexual or erotic interests of other people, and is a factor in sexual selection or mate choice. The attraction can be to the physical or other qualities or traits of a person, or to such qualities in the context where they appear. The attraction may be to a person's aesthetics or movements or to their voice or smell, besides other factors. The attraction may be enhanced by a person's adornments, clothing, perfume or style. It can be influenced by individual genetic, psychological, or cultural factors, or to other, more amorphous qualities. Sexual attraction is also a response to another person that depends on a combination of the person possessing the traits and on the criteria of the person who is attracted.\n\nThough attempts have been made to devise objective criteria of sexual attractiveness and measure it as one of several bodily forms of capital asset (\"see erotic capital\"), a person's sexual attractiveness is to a large extent a subjective measure dependent on another person's interest, perception, and sexual orientation. For example, a gay or lesbian person would typically find a person of the same sex to be more attractive than one of the other sex. A bisexual person would find either sex to be attractive. Asexuality refers to those who do not experience sexual attraction for either sex, though they may have romantic attraction (homoromantic, biromantic or heteroromantic) or a non-directed libido. Interpersonal attraction includes factors such as physical or psychological similarity, familiarity or possessing a preponderance of common or familiar features, similarity, complementarity, reciprocal liking, and reinforcement.\n\nThe ability of a person's physical and other qualities to create a sexual interest in others is the basis of their use in advertising, film, and other visual media, as well as in modeling and other occupations.\n\nIn evolutionary terms, the ovulatory shift hypothesis posits that female humans exhibit different sexual behaviours and desires at points in their menstrual cycle, as a means to ensure that they attract a high quality mate to copulate with during their most fertile time. Hormone levels throughout the menstrual cycle affect a woman's overt behaviours, influencing the way a woman presents herself to others during stages of her menstrual cycle, in attempt to attract high quality mates the closer the woman is to ovulation.\n\nHuman sexuality has many aspects. In biology, sexuality describes the reproductive mechanism and the basic biological drive that exists in all sexually reproducing species and can encompass sexual intercourse and sexual contact in all its forms. There are also emotional and physical aspects of sexuality. These relate to the bond between individuals, which may be expressed through profound feelings or emotions. Sociologically, it can cover the cultural, political, and legal aspects; philosophically, it can span the moral, ethical, theological, spiritual, and religious aspects.\n\nWhich aspects of a person's sexuality attract another is influenced by cultural factors; it has varied over time as well as personal factors. Influencing factors may be determined more locally among sub-cultures, across sexual fields, or simply by the preferences of the individual. These preferences come about as a result of a complex variety of genetic, psychological, and cultural factors.\n\nA person's physical appearance has a critical impact on their sexual attractiveness. This involves the impact one's appearance has on the senses, especially in the beginning of a relationship:\n\n\nAs with other animals, pheromones may have an impact, though less significantly in the case of humans. Theoretically, the \"wrong\" pheromone may cause someone to be disliked, even when they would otherwise appear attractive. Frequently, a pleasant-smelling perfume is used to encourage the member of the opposite sex to more deeply inhale the air surrounding its wearer, increasing the probability that the individual's pheromones will be inhaled. The importance of pheromones in human relationships is probably limited and is widely disputed, although it appears to have some scientific basis.\n\nMany people exhibit high levels of sexual fetishism and are sexually stimulated by other stimuli not normally associated with sexual arousal. The degree to which such fetishism exists or has existed in different cultures is controversial.\n\nPheromones have been determined to play a role in sexual attraction between people. They influence gonadal hormone secretion, for example, follicle maturation in the ovaries in females and testosterone and sperm production in males.\n\nResearch conducted by Donald G. Dutton and Arthur P. Aron in the 1970s aimed to find the relation between sexual attraction and high anxiety conditions. In doing so, 85 male participants were contacted by an attractive female interviewer at either a fear-arousing suspension bridge or a normal bridge. Conclusively, it was shown that the male participants who were asked to by the female interviewer to perform the thematic apperception test (TAT) on the fear-arousing bridge, wrote more sexual content in the stories and attempted, with greater effort, to contact the interviewer after the experiment than those participants who performed the TAT on the normal bridge. In another test, a male participant, chosen from a group of 80, was given anticipated shocks. With him was an attractive female confederate, who was also being shocked. The experiment showed that the male's sexual imagery in the TAT was much higher when self shock was anticipated and not when the female confederate shock was anticipated.\n\nPeople consciously or subconsciously enhance their sexual attractiveness or sex appeal for a number of reasons. It may be to attract someone with whom they can form a deeper relationship, for companionship, procreation, or an intimate relationship, besides other possible purposes. It can be part of a courtship process. This can involve physical aspects or interactive processes whereby people find and attract potential partners, and maintain a relationship. These processes, which involve attracting a partner and maintaining sexual interest, can include flirting, which can be used to attract the sexual attention of another to encourage romance or sexual relations, and can involve body language, conversation, joking, or brief physical contact.\n\nMen have been found to have a greater interest in uncommitted sex compared to women. Some research shows this interest to be more sociological than biological. Men have a greater interest in visual sexual stimuli than women. However, additional trends have been found with a greater sensitivity to partner status in women choosing a sexual partner and men placing a greater emphasis on physical attractiveness in a potential mate, as well as a significantly greater tendency toward sexual jealousy in men and emotional jealousy in women.\n\nBailey, Gaulin, Agyei, and Gladue (1994) analyzed whether these results varied according to sexual orientation. In general, they found biological sex played a bigger role in the psychology of sexual attraction than orientation. However, there were some differences between homosexual and heterosexual women and men on these factors. While gay and straight men showed similar psychological interest in casual sex on markers of sociosexuality, gay men showed a larger number of partners in behaviour expressing this interest (proposed to be due to a difference in opportunity). Self-identified lesbian women showed a significantly greater interest in visual sexual stimuli than heterosexual women and judged partner status to be less important in romantic partnerships. Heterosexual men had a significantly greater preference for younger partners than homosexual men. People who identify as asexual may not be sexually attracted to anyone. Gray asexuality includes those who only experience sexual attraction under certain circumstances; for example, exclusively after an emotional bond has been formed. This tends to vary from person to person.\n\nThe ovulatory shift hypothesis refers to the idea that female humans tend to exhibit different sexual behaviours and desires at points in their cycle, as an evolutionarily adaptive means to ensure that a high quality male is chosen to copulate with during the most fertile period of the cycle. It is thought that, due to the length of time and the parental investment involved for a woman to reproduce, changes in female psychology during menstrual periods would help them make critical decisions in mating selection. For example, it has been suggested that women's sexual preferences shift toward more masculine physical characteristics during peak phases of fertility. In such, a symmetrical and masculine face outwardly indicates the reproductive value of a prospective mate.\n\nThere is evidence that women's mate preferences differ across the ovarian cycle. A meta analysis, investigating 50 studies about whether women's mate preferences for good gene-related male traits changed across the ovarian cycle found that women's preferences change across their cycle: Women show the greatest preference for good gene male traits at their most fertile window.\n\nFemale sexual preference for male face shapes has been shown to vary with the probability of conception. Findings showed that during a 'high conception' stage of the menstrual cycle, women were more attracted to men with less feminine/more masculine faces for short-term relationships. Unlike men, women's sexual arousal has been found to be generic—it is non-specific to either men or women. The aforementioned research suggests that there may be a possibility that female sexual arousal becomes more sex-specific during the most fertile points of the menstrual cycle.\n\nIn males, a masculine face has been positively correlated with fewer respiratory diseases and, as a consequence, masculine features offer a marker of health and reproductive success. The preference for masculine faces is only recorded in short-term mate choices. It is therefore suggested that females are attracted to masculine faces only during ovulation as masculinity reflects a high level of fitness, used to ensure reproductive success. Whilst such preferences may be of lesser importance today, the evolutionary explanation offers reasoning as to why such effects are recorded.\n\nAs well as masculinity, females are more sensitive to the scent of males who display high levels of developmental stability. An individual's developmental stability is a measurement of fluctuating asymmetry, defined as their level of deviation from perfect bilateral symmetry. In a comparison of female college students, the results indicated that those normally cycling were more receptive to the scent of shirts worn by symmetrical men when nearing peak fertility in their ovulatory cycle. The same women reported no such preference for the scent of symmetrical men when re-tested during non-fertile stages of the menstrual cycle. Those using the contraceptive pill, and therefore not following regular cyclical patterns, reported no such preference.\n\nAs with masculine faces, the ability to determine symmetry via scent was likely designed by natural selection to increase the probability of reproductive success through mating with a male offering strong genetics. This is evidenced in research focusing on traits of symmetrical males, who consistently record higher levels of IQ, coordination, social dominance, and consequently, greater reproductive fitness. As symmetry appears to reflect an abundance of desirable traits held by the male in question, it is self-evident that such males are more desirable to females who are seeking high quality mates. In such, during ovulation, females show a strong preference for symmetrical males as they are reaching peak fertility. As it would be advantageous for asymmetrical men to release a scent similar to that produced by symmetrical males, the female signal used to detect symmetry is presumed to be an honest one (asymmetrical males cannot fake it).\n\nIn addition to this, females have different behavioural preferences towards men during stages in their cycles. It has been found that women have a preference towards more masculine voices during the late-follicular, fertile phase of the menstrual cycle. They are particularly sensitive towards voice pitch and apparent vocal-tract length, which are testosterone-related traits. This effect has been found to be most significant in women who are less feminine (those with low E3G levels), in comparison to women with higher E3G levels. It has been suggested that this difference in preference is because feminine women (those with high E3G levels) are more successful at obtaining investment. It is not necessary for these women to change their mating preferences during their cycles. More masculine women may make these changes to enhance their chances of achieving investment.\n\nWomen have been found to report greater sexual attraction to men other than their own partners when near ovulation compared with the luteal phase. Women whose partners have high developmental stability have greater attraction to men other than their partners when fertile. This can be interpreted as women possessing an adaptation to be attracted to men possessing markers of genetic fitness, therefore sexual attraction depends on the qualities of her partner.\n\nHormone levels throughout the menstrual cycle affect a woman's behaviour in preferences and in their overt behaviours. The ornamentation effect is a phenomenon influenced by a stage of the menstrual cycle which refers to the way a woman presents herself to others, in a way to attract potential sexual partners. Studies have found that the closer women were to ovulation, the more provocatively they dress and the more attractive they are rated.\n\nSimilar to the function in animals, it is probable that this ornamentation is to attract potential partners and that a woman's motivations may vary across her cycle. Research into this relationship has discovered that women who were to attend a discothèque and rated their clothing as 'sexy' and 'bold,' also stated that their intention for the evening was to flirt and find a partner to go home with. Although direct causation cannot be stated, this research suggests that there is a direct link between a woman's ornamentation and her motivation to attract mates.\n\nIt is possible that women are sensitive to the changes in their physical attractiveness throughout their cycles, such that at their most fertile stages their levels of attractiveness are increased. Consequently, they choose to display their increased levels of attractiveness through this method of ornamentation.\n\nDuring periods of hormonal imbalance, women exhibit a peak in sexual activity. As these findings have been recorded for female-initiated sexual activity and not for male-initiated activity, the causation appears to be hormonal changes during the menstrual cycle. In addition, studies have found that women report themselves to be significantly more flirtatious with men, other than their partners, during the most fertile stages of their cycle, as well as a greater desire to attend parties or nightclubs where there is the potential to meet male partners.\n\nResearch has also found that menstrual cycles affect sexual behaviour frequency in pre-menopausal women. For example, women who had weekly sexual intercourse with men had menstrual cycles with the average duration of 29 days, while women with less frequent sexual interactions tended to have more extreme cycle lengths.\n\nChanges in hormones during a female's cycles affect the way she behaves and the way males behave towards her. Research has found that men are a lot more attentive and loving towards their partners when they are in the most fertile phase of their cycles, in comparison to when they are in the luteal phases. Men become increasingly jealous and possessive over their partners during this stage. It is highly likely that these changes in male behaviour is a result of the female partner's increased desire to seek and flirt with other males. Therefore, these behavioural adaptations have developed as a form of mate guarding, which increases the male's likelihood of maintaining the relationship and increasing chances of reproductive success.\n\n"}
{"id": "23865098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23865098", "title": "Single affect principle", "text": "Single affect principle\n\nThe single affect principle is a musicological term describing the idea that contrasting affects (moods or sentiments) cannot belong in the one and the same musical movement, the harmonic structure of which would thus be limited by enharmonic modulations. It was one of the defining characteristics of pre-Classical music (Renaissance, Baroque etc.), and gradually became obsolete ca. 1800. There has been a resurgence of its use in contemporary historicist and minimalistmusic.\n"}
{"id": "46391380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46391380", "title": "Stone throwing", "text": "Stone throwing\n\nStone throwing or rock throwing is the act of throwing a stone. When it is directed at another person (called stone pelting in India), it is a form of criminal assault.\n\nThrowing of rocks or stones is one of the most ancient forms of ranged-weapon combat, with slings used to increase the range of such projectiles having been found among other weapons in the tomb of Tutankhamen, who died about 1325 BC. In many places, rocks are readily available as weapons, more so than more sophisticated weapons. Because rocks are dense, hard objects, a forcefully thrown rock can do substantial damage to a target, particularly if the rock has sharp or jagged edges.\n\nHistorically, stoning was used as a method of human execution in several cultures.\n\nRocks thrown at cars moving along highways at high speeds have been a problem in a number of countries. According to Austin, Texas police detective Jarrett Crippen \"When we’re talking about highway speeds of 60, 70 mph, that rock is hitting you full-force... If it's coming through your windshield, it can cause serious damage to the body, vehicle or even death.\" A Washington State trooper said of an arrest of criminal rock-throwers, \"Any one of these rocks could have punctured a windshield, hit the driver in the face and killed them.\" Although the rocks are often thrown from overpasses or high points along the roadside, people riding in cars have also been killed by rocks thrown at random vehicles from passing cars.\nThrown rocks can kill in a number of ways; a rock can hit a passenger directly in the head with lethal force, a rock can strike the driver causing him or her to lose control of the car and crash, the \"jolt and shock of a barrage of stones smashing against the front windshield\" can cause the driver to lose control and crash, or the out of control vehicle can slam into a passing car, causing it to crash.\n\nNotable instances of death and injury caused by rocks thrown at cars include the death of Julie Catherine Laible, a professor at the University of Alabama, the Darmstadt American rock-throwing incident in which American teenagers killed a 20-year-old woman and critically injured her grandmother, then hit another car, killing the 41-year-old mother of 2 small children, the Death of Chris Currie, 20 years old, on a road in New Zealand, the Killing of David Wilkie by striking miners throwing rocks at cars in the United Kingdom, and the I-80 rock throwing in which youths hurled rocks from an overpass on Interstate 80 in Pennsylvania, critically injuring and permanently disfiguring a passenger.. In 2017, a single American highway, Interstate 75, was the scene of 2017 Interstate 75 rock-throwing deaths in two separate incidents.\n\nIn the 18th century, William Blackstone stated that throwing stones in a town or city on a highway, when it caused a death, was to be defined as manslaughter rather than murder.\n\n\nIn Florida, Statewide policy is to install fences on highly trafficked overpasses and those near schools. An exception is Manatee county, where all overpasses have it due to the Interstate 75 rock-throwing death.\n\nThrowing rocks at trains is a long-standing problem in countries including the United States and New Zealand, where passengers and train crews have been injured by large rocks thrown through windows.\n\nMany notorious and deadly riots have begun with rock throwing, or included rock throwing as violence escalated, including the Toronto Jubilee riots, the Boston Massacre, and the 2014 Hrushevskoho Street riots in the Ukraine.\n\nThrowing of stones at Indian Armed Forces and Police is frequent in the Indian province of Kashmir. Usually carried out by youths, in the local language it is called \"Kanni Jung\", which means \"fighting with stones\" and the stone pelters are called as \"Sangbaaz\". There are claims that the rocks are thrown in response to killings of Kashmiri youth at the hands of forces. But as per the Dailymail, India Today Television's underground reporters interviewed some of the stonepelters where stonepelters revealed they are being paid 5000-7000 rupees per month and are being given some clothes and shoes by the Anti-India forces for pelting stones on Indian army.\n\nRock throwing has been in the past often adopted as a method by an unarmed population to protest a governing power's authority. Under English common law, soldiers were not permitted to shoot at civilians engaged in this kind of protest, unless their lives were in danger or they obtained beforehand an express order from a civil magistrate. At one point, when town officials tried to arrest a British officer who was commanding the guard at Boston Neck, Captain Ponsonby Molesworth intervened to confront a stone-throwing crowd. Molesworth ordered the soldiers to bayonet anyone throwing stones who got too close. A Boston justice told him that, under common law, a bayonet thrust was not an act of self-defense against a stone, which was not a lethal weapon. Had a soldier killed anyone, Molesworth could have been tried for his life.'\n\nPolitical demonstrations in many countries have resulted with the arrest of violent protestors for throwing rocks and other objects at police.\n\nRock throwing during riots is a criminal offense, for which rock throwers can be charged with felony crimes, including assault on a law enforcement officer. Incidents of criminal rock throwing havye resulted in arrests during sports riots; especially notable are incidents of rock-throwing football hooliganism.\n\n\nRock-throwing can be used by thieves, as demonstrated by a 2015 case in India in which Ratan Marwadi (45) was charged with throwing rocks at a random passer-by, Darshana Pawar, for the purpose of disabling and robbing her. Pawar was killed. Her murderer, Ratan Marwadi, had previously served time in jail for pelting rail commuters with stones with the intent of robbing them.\n\nIn the 19th century, \"stone throwing\" was defined as a \"nuisance\", one of a number of offenses such as \"kite-flying\" and \"doorbell ringing\" to be handled by bylaws which differed from town to town.\n\n\nRock-throwers on the Mexican side of the border between the United States and Mexico frequently target United States Border Patrol agents with barrages of rocks to prevent them from apprehending individuals illegally crossing the border, particularly smugglers moving illegal drugs or illegal migrants across the border. Between 2010 and 2014 Border Patrol agents were assaulted with rocks 1,700 times, they fired weapons at rock throwers 43 times, resulting in 10 deaths. Border Patrol agents are permitted to respond to rock-throwers with lethal weapons, although as of 2014 policy is that they should attempt to avoid finding themselves in situations where responding to rock-throwing with lethal force becomes necessary.\n\nIn recent years, increasing numbers of undocumented sub-Saharan Africans have passed through Morocco attempting to reach European Union countries, many attempt to enter Spanish soil at two Spanish enclaves, Melilla and Ceuta, located on the African side of the Mediterranean Sea. On several occasions, Moroccan and Spanish border authorities have defended lethal violence against African illegal immigrants near the Melilla border fence and Ceuta border fence by asserting that groups of migrants attempting to storm the border in mass-entry events threw rocks to drive border guards away from the gates.\n\nStone throwing rioters have repeatedly clashed with Egyptian troops at the Egypt-Gaza border.\n\nIn the 2015 Horgoš riot during the European migrant crisis, Illegal immigrants at the Hungarian southern border fence threw rocks and chunks of concrete at Hungarian border police.\n\n"}
{"id": "5258267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5258267", "title": "U.S. standard clothing size", "text": "U.S. standard clothing size\n\nU.S. standard clothing sizes for women were originally developed from statistical data in the 1940s and 1950s. At that time, they were similar in concept to the EN 13402 European clothing size standard, although individual manufacturers have always deviated from them, sometimes significantly.\n\nHowever, as a result of various cultural pressures, most notably vanity sizing, North American clothing sizes have drifted substantially away from this standard over time, and now have very little connection to it. Instead, they now follow the more loosely defined standards known as U.S. catalog sizes.\n\nBody measurements below are given in inches.\n\nMen's standard sizes were probably developed first during the American Revolutionary War, and they were in regular use by the American army during the War of 1812 for ready-made uniforms . These were based on the chest measurement, with other measurements being assumed to be either proportional (the circumference of the neck, waist, hips, and thighs) or easily altered (length of the inseam) .\n\nAs this was largely successful in men, the same approach was attempted in the early 20th century for women using the bust as the sole measurement . However, this proved unsuccessful because women's bodies have far more variety in shape. The hourglass figure is frequently used as an industry standard, but only 8% of women have this body shape . A woman with an hourglass figure and a woman with an apple-shaped figure who have the same bust size will not have the same waist or hip sizes.\n\nThis was a significant problem for mail-order companies, and several attempts at predictable, standard sizing were made . In the 1940s, the statisticians Ruth O'Brien and William Shelton received a Works Progress Administration grant to conduct the most ambitious effort to solve this problem. Their team measured almost 15,000 women across the US. After discovering the complex diversity of women's actual sizes, which produced five to seven different body shapes, they proposed a three-part sizing system. Each size would be the combination of a single number, representing an upper body measurement, plus an indicator for height (short, regular, and long) and an indication for girth (slim, regular, and stout). The various combinations of height and girth resulted in nine different sizes for each numerical upper-body measurement, which was highly impractical for manufacturing .\n\nAs a result, O'Brien and Shelton's work was rejected. In 1958, the National Bureau of Standards invented a new sizing system, based on the hourglass figure and using only the bust size to create an arbitrary standard of sizes ranging from 8 to 38, with an indication for height (short, regular, and tall) and lower-body girth (plus or minus). The resulting commercial standard was not widely popular, and was declared voluntary in 1970 and withdrawn entirely in 1983. In 1995, ASTM International published its own voluntary standard, which has been revised since then . It has not been widely adopted.\n\nWomen's sizes are divided into various types, depending on height. These charts give an indication of size only and are by no means exact as they vary from manufacturer to manufacturer, sometimes by a full inch up and down.\n\nThere are multiple size types, designed to fit somewhat different body shapes. Variations include the height of the person's torso (known as \"back length\"), whether the bust, waist, and hips are straighter (characteristic of teenagers) or curvier (like many adult women), and whether the bust is higher or lower (characteristic of younger and older women, respectively). These categories include:\n\n\nPlease compare to your favorite fit charts. These measurements conflict with many other size charts. These charts are significantly smaller than many current US clothing companies.\n\nCompanies who publish catalogs may provide the measurements for their sizes, which may vary even among different styles of the same type of garment. The sizes seen in catalogs generally have roughly the following measurements:\n\nWith the average American woman's height (20 years and older) at about 63.8\" or approximately 5'4\" (162.1 cm) , both standard and catalog size ranges attempt to address a variety of weights / builds as well as providing for the \"shorter-than-average\" height woman with \"petite\" and \"half-sizes\". However \"taller-than-average\" women may find their size-height addressed by manufacturers less frequently, and may often find themselves facing issues of slightly too short pant legs and sleeve cuffs, as well as waist lengths.\n\nCurrent and former national standards:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53813741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53813741", "title": "Villa La Coste", "text": "Villa La Coste\n\nVilla La Coste is a luxury hotel at the 600-acre Château La Coste organic winery in Provence. \nThe hotel contains art and architecture by Tadao Ando, Jean Nouvel, Renzo Piano, Frank Gehry, Christopher Green, André Fu, Paul Matisse, Richard Serra, Tracey Emin, Richard Rogers, Ai Weiwei, Oscar Niemeyer and Louise Bourgeois.\nIrish property magnate Patrick McKillen is the estate owner and project manager of the hotel.\nWine varietals of the estate include Syrah, Cabernet Sauvignon and Vermentino.\n\n"}
