{"id": "6128858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6128858", "title": "826NYC", "text": "826NYC\n\n826NYC is a nonprofit organization located in Park Slope, Brooklyn. It provides free after-school tutoring, workshops, in-schools tutoring, help for English language learners, and assistance with student publications. Drawing from a volunteer base of over 2,000, which includes many teachers, writers and journalism professionals, 826NYC unites students with tutors. It is a chapter of 826 National.\n\n826NYC is located in a \"secret lair\" behind The Brooklyn Superhero Supply Company, a store similar in eccentricity to 826 Valencia’s storefront pirate shop, and which sells capes, grappling hooks, utility belts (new and vintage), masks, tights, deflector bracelets, bottles of chaos and anti-gravity, secret identity kits, and more. Visitors to the store can try out capes for free in a cape-testing wind tunnel (essentially a series of fans on a pedestal). The store sells new and back issues of \"Timothy McSweeney's Quarterly Concern\", \"The Believer\", \"Wholphin,\" and other McSweeney's publications. The Brooklyn Superhero Supply Co. also carries a complete stock of publications written and edited by students at 826NYC including \"Trapped: The Encyclopedia of Escape\", \"Sonny Paine\", and issues 1 and 2 of \"The 826NYC Review\". The store front is literally a front for the charitable organization, with all sales going to the organization. The store employs volunteers.\n\nThe design of the store features many tongue-in-cheek signs and features, and the staff treat their products as real super-hero supplies, and visitors as real super-heroes. The secret lair to the student learning and activity center lies behind a swinging bookcase.\n\n826NYC is known for hosting culturally innovative fundraising events. In August 2006, 826NYC was the starting point for the Revenge Of The Book Eaters Tour, which stopped in each of the six cities home to an 826 National center. The NYC stop, at The Beacon Theater, featured performances by Jon Stewart, David Byrne, Sufjan Stevens, Dave Eggers, Sarah Vowell, John Hodgman, Eric Bogosian, Jonathan Coulton, and John Roderick in an evening that promised once and for all to settle the debate: words or music–which is better?\n\nOther 826NYC fundraising events have included 826NYC Art Show (curated by Marcel Dzama, Shelley Dick, and David Zwirner Gallery), 826NYC Fashion Show/Spring 2006 Collection (featuring crimefighting-wear designed by Marc Jacobs, Zac Posen, Jack Spade, Behnaz Sarafpour, Rebecca Taylor, Kenneth Cole, and Benjamin Cho, modeled by The Daily Show correspondents Kathleen Hanna and Amy Sedaris), McSweeney's vs. They Might Be Giants (based on Issue #6 of McSweeneys, held at Lincoln Center), How I Learned To Read (Eric Bogosian, Bob Balaban, Cynthia Nixon, Justin Theroux, Sam Rockwell, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Martha Plimpton, and Kristen Johnston read their favorite classic children's stories).\n\n"}
{"id": "1873546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1873546", "title": "American Choral Directors Association", "text": "American Choral Directors Association\n\nThe American Choral Directors Association (ACDA), headquartered in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, is a non-profit organization with the stated purpose of promoting excellence in the field of choral music. Its membership comprises approximately 22,000 choral directors representing over a million singers.\n\nACDA is organized in seven Divisions, i.e., Central, Eastern, North Central, Northwestern, Southern, Southwestern, and Western. Every year, conferences with topics pertaining to choral conductors are held - in even numbered years, a division conference is held in each division, and in odd numbered years, a national conference takes place in a major U.S. city. In 2009, ACDA celebrated its 50th Anniversary in Oklahoma City; in 2011, the national conference was held in Chicago, Illinois. The 2013 national conference was held in Dallas, Texas. James Madison University was the host for the national chapter for 2011. Each year a different university hosts the yearly ACDA chapter.\n\nConductors can apply to have their choirs perform at these conferences through a blind audition-CD process. Being accepted to sing at an ACDA conference is considered a great honor, both for a choir and for its conductor. Individual singers may also apply to sing with ACDA National or Regional Honor Choirs. About 300 singers are selected from around the country to sing in each national or regional choir.\n\nTheir official publications are the \"Choral Journal\", as well as the scientific research journal \"International Journal of Research in Choral Singing\" (online only).\n\nIn addition to the division organization, a similar break out is done along specialization\nlines. The specialties are:\n\nEach specialty is organized under a Repertoire and Standards (R&S) Committee system, with a National Committee, Division Committees, and State chairpersons. The National Chairperson for each specialty is also a member of the National R&S Committee which meets annually to discuss issues common to all specialties.\n\nSince 1991, the ACDA awards the \"Raymond W. Brock Memorial Commission\" to \"a recognized composer to write a choral composition in an effort to perpetuate quality choral repertoire.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33797265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33797265", "title": "Board of Manufactures", "text": "Board of Manufactures\n\nDuring the Enlightenment and the industrial revolution, Scottish industrial policy was made by the Board of Trustees for Fisheries, Manufactures and Improvements in Scotland, which sought to build an economy complementary, not competitive, with England. Since England had woollens, this meant linen.\n\nThe Board was established in 1727, with the purpose of dispersing grants to encourage the growth of the fishing and manufacturing industries.\n\nWhen state regulation of the linen industry was abolished in 1823, the focus of the board turned to the decorative arts and the improvement of fine arts education. The Board had established the Trustees Drawing Academy of Edinburgh in 1760, to improve industrial design, and in 1906 the Board's remaining functions were transferred to the Trustees of the National Galleries of Scotland by the National Galleries of Scotland Act.\n\nThe linen industry was Scotland's premier industry in the 18th century and formed the basis for the later cotton, jute, and woollen industries.\n\nEncouraged and subsidized by the Board of Trustees so it could compete with German products, merchant entrepreneurs became dominant in all stages of linen manufacturing and built up the market share of Scottish linens, especially in the American colonial market. The British Linen Company, established in 1746, was the largest firm in the Scottish linen industry in the 18th century, exporting linen to England and America. As a joint-stock company, it had the right to raise funds through the issue of promissory notes or bonds. With its bonds functioning as bank notes, the company gradually moved into the business of lending and discounting to other linen manufacturers, and in the early 1770s banking became its main activity. Renamed the British Linen Bank in 1906, it was one of Scotland's premier banks until it was bought out by the Bank of Scotland in 1969. It joined the established Scottish banks such as the Bank of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1695) and the Royal Bank of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1727). Glasgow would soon follow and Scotland had a flourishing financial system by the end of the century. There were over 400 branches, amounting to one office per 7000 people, double the level in England. The banks were more lightly regulated than those in England. Historians often emphasise that the flexibility and dynamism of the Scottish banking system contributed significantly to the rapid development of the economy in the 19th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55963183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55963183", "title": "Centennial of Flight Commission", "text": "Centennial of Flight Commission\n\nThe U. S. Centennial of Flight Commission (\"CoFC\" or \"CofF Commission\") was created in 1999, by the U.S. Congress, to serve as a national and international source of information about activities commemorating the centennial of the Wright Brothers' first powered flight on December 17, 1903 (purportedly the first fully controlled, sustained, powered flight of a heavier-than-air man-carrying airplane).\n\nThere were centennial commemorations and celebrations planned in 2003 to occur in both:\n\nIn addition, the commission anticipated numerous historical and educational projects about aviation and aeronautics nationally and internationally, and sought to be a shaping force in those events.\n\nThe Commission coordinated a national outreach campaign, \"Centennial of Flight: Born of Dreams — Inspired by Freedom,\" \"to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Wright brothers’ first powered flight and the century of accomplishments that followed.\" The Commission also advised the President, Congress and federal agencies on the most effective ways to encourage and promote national and international participation in the commemoration. The CoFC also undertook additional efforts to support Centennial commemorations and celebrations, and related educational and cultural programs, through its alliance with \"Centennial Partners\" who were \"planning everything from cross-country tours to air shows and exhibitions, seminars and television specials.\" It also sponsored a large educational Centennial website.\n\nIn 1998, the United States Congress passed the Centennial of Flight Commemoration Act, Public Law 105-389, 105th Congress (Nov. 13, 1998), as amended by Public Law 106-68, 106th Congress (Oct. 6, 1999).\n\nRegulations for the Commission were incorporated into the Code of Federal Regulations as \"67 FR 758 - U_S_ Centennial of Flight Commission.\"\n\nThe Commission had limited authority and resources, and was chiefly charged by Congress to play the leading role in coordinating and publicizing activities celebrating the achievements of Wilbur and Orville Wright and commemorate a century of powered flight.\n\nThe Commission's primary responsibilities were:\n\nFrom FY1999 through FY2001, the Commission was funded through specific line-items in the Federal Aviation Administration operations appropriations. In subsequent years, the Commission was funded through general agency appropriations. The Centennial of Flight Commission, are provided with the authority to accept only nonmonetary donations. In that instance, the statutory language stated,\nDonations.\n\nThe Commission consisted of representatives of public and private American organizations, including:\n\nThe affiliated First Flight Centennial Federal Advisory Board was made up of various aviation dignitaries and public figures appointed by the President or the Congress, or designated by statute.\n\nCofC later added numerous affiliates, including:\n\n\nIn addition to the programs and events noted in the #Members and Participants section, the CoFC was involved with numerous other activities.\n\nThe National Centennial of Flight Kick-off event, was held December 17, 2002—a year before the 100th anniversary of the Wright flight—at the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum, in Washington, D.C.. It included a Presidential proclamation and the recognition of numerous aviation and aerospace pioneers, with presentations from Chairman Dailey, actor/aviator John Travolta, FAA Administrator Marion Blakey, and NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe. On the same day, in North Carolina, a commemoration was held near Kitty Hawk—a daylong anniversary tribute at the site of the Wrights' first flight, the Wright Brothers National Memorial, at Kill Devil Hills. Speakers included North Carolina Governor Michael F. Easley and U.S. Air Force Gen. Ralph E. Eberhart, commander of North American Aerospace Defense Command and U.S. Northern Command\n\nNumerous other commemoration events, and related projects, were urged, planned or supported throughout the nation, throughout the \"centennial year\" (December 17, 2002 to December 17, 2003), particularly in Ohio and North Carolina.\n\nThe principal, and \"grand finale,\" First Flight Centennial Celebration was held December 12–17, 2003, at the Wright Brothers National Memorial at the approximate site of their first powered flight at Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina. President George W. Bush was present, and numerous military and civilian aircraft performed. The event was marred by foul weather, and failed attempts to fly a replica of the 1903 Wright Flyer. Development of the event reportedly had been hindered by interagency difficulty and conflict, and mismanagement, including North Carolina's FFCC\n\nOne of the Centennial of Flight Commission's principal efforts was the development of the organization's \"Centennial of Flight\" website—a 17,000-page online encyclopedia of aviation history (chiefly U.S. aviation history), with hundreds of articles, and thousands of illustrations. The Commission claimed the website provided \"the most up-to-date information on celebration activity, as well as the most comprehensive collection of outstanding educational essays, multimedia and links regarding the history of flight.\"\n\nThe site's development and operation consumed about four-million dollars, of mostly federal funds, but became very popular during the Centennial year, peaking at over 4 million visitors per month by December 2003 (the 100th Anniversary month).\n\nThe site was maintained at the internet domain centennialofflight.gov by NASA. Following the closing of the CoFC in April 2004, responsibility for the site transferred to the NASA History Office, who maintained the site online, basically unchanged, until budget cutbacks and server-computer problems motivated its abandonment by NASA in September 2012. Various parties salvaged parts of the site, including the American Aviation Historical Society (AAHS), who acquired copies of the computer code for the site from NASA. In 2013, a member of AAHS donated the domain name centennialofflight.netto AAHS, to accommodate an archive—maintained by AAHS—of the original official Centennial of Flight website. AAHS made structural \"clean-ups\" to the site (removing broken links and obsolete calendar data), and initiating other edits, highlighted with dark red lettering.\n\nThe Commission closed in 2004, following the end of its scheduled functions. As part of the Commission's charter, there were provisions for certain material to be preserved, particularly the large website, which was assigned to the NASA History Office.\n\n"}
{"id": "6791472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6791472", "title": "Chaharbagh School", "text": "Chaharbagh School\n\nChahār Bāgh school (\"Madreseye Chahār Bāgh\" in Persian or مدرسه چهار باغ\n), also known as Shah school, is a 17-18th century cultural complex in Isfahan, Iran.\n\nThe compound was built during the time of Soltan Hossein, a Safavid king, to serve as a theological and clerical school to train those who were interested in such sciences. In order to finance the school, Soltan Hossein's mother had a large caravansary built nearby, the income of which went to the foundation. The monumental portal from the main avenue of Shah Abbas leads directly into a domed octagonal vestibule. The dome and the greater part of the walls are covered in bright yellow bricks which give a feeling of lightness. The entrance gate decorated with gold facade and silver, and the tile-works inside the building are masterpieces of fine art and industry. The central court, with its pool and garden, are surrounded by arcades on two levels, each giving access to a student's room.\n\n"}
{"id": "548053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=548053", "title": "Chulalongkorn University", "text": "Chulalongkorn University\n\nChulalongkorn University (, , ) (CU), nicknamed Chula (), is a public and autonomous research university in Bangkok, Thailand. The university was originally founded during King Chulalongkorn's reign as a school for training royal pages and civil servants in 1899 (B.E. 2442) at the Grand Palace of Thailand. It was later established as a national university in 1917, making it the oldest institute of higher education in Thailand.\n\nDuring the reign of Chulalongkorn's son, King Vajiravudh, the Royal Pages School became the Civil Service College of King Chulalongkorn. The Rockefeller Foundation was instrumental in helping the college form its academic foundation. On 26 March 1917, King Vajiravudh renamed the college \"Chulalongkorn University\".\n\nChulalongkorn University is a comprehensive and research-intensive university. It is ranked as the best university in Thailand in many surveys, quality of students, quality of research, quality in particular subjects, university reputation, environmental management systems. According to QS world university ranking 2017, CU is placed 245th in the world, 45th in Asia, 1st in Thailand, and 201-250 in the world graduate employability ranking. It is also ranked as Thailand's No. 1 university from various organizers such as Center for World University Rankings, Round university ranking, Academic Ranking of World Universities.\n\nChulalongkorn University is one of the National Research Universities and supported by the Office of Nation Education Standards and Quality Assessment of Thailand. Moreover, CU is the only Thai university which is a member of Association of Pacific Rim Universities (APRU).\n\nAdmission to CU is highly selective, and applicants are required to have high test scores. Applicants ranking in the top 10 national scores are chosen for study at CU. \n\nCU is composed of nineteen faculties, a School of Agriculture, three colleges, ten institutes and two other schools. Its campus occupies a vast area in downtown Bangkok. Graduates customarily receive their diplomas from the King of Thailand, a tradition begun by King Prajadhipok (Rama VII).\n\nKing Chulalongkorn's reforms, aimed at transforming Thai society into a modern state demanded trained officials specialized in various fields. In 1899, the king founded the \"Civil Service Training School\" near the north gate of the Royal Palace. Those who graduated from the school would become royal pages. As royal pages, they learned how to manage organizations by working closely with the king, which was a traditional way to enter the Siamese bureaucracy. After serving as royal pages, they would then serve in the Mahattai Ministry or other government ministries.\n\nOn 1 April 1902 the king renamed the school. It became the \"Royal Pages School\" (). On 1 January 1911, King Vajiravudh changed the name to \"Civil Service College of King Chulalongkorn\" () as a memorial to his father and moved the school to Windsor Palace () in the Pathumwan District.\n\nThe king subsidized the construction of a university campus and organized various schools around the city into Chulalongkorn. The college offered eight majors taught by five schools including;\n\n\nKing Rama VI realized that education should be provided not only to bureaucrats, but to all people. On 26 March 1917, the college was upgraded to \"Chulalongkorn University\" (), and the schools were transformed into four faculties: Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Faculty of Public Administration, Faculty of Engineering, and Faculty of Medicine.\n\nThe Rockefeller Foundation reorganized the curriculum of the Faculty of Medicine. In 1923, the Faculty of Medicine became the first faculty to accept secondary school (Mattayom) graduates. The remaining faculties then followed suit. After the 1932 Revolution, the People's Party wanted legal and political studies to be independent of \"royalists\" so they moved the Faculty of Law and Political Science to the new Thammasat University in 1933.\n\nIn 1938, Chulalongkorn University's Preparatory School was founded to provide pre-collegiate education to students. Those who managed to enter the university had to spend two years in the Preparatory School before going on to the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The Preparatory School, however, ceased to be a university-owned preparatory school in 1947 and became the independent Triam Udom Suksa School. Later, the university established Chulalongkorn University Demonstration School (CUD) as a laboratory school for primary and secondary education for the Faculty of Education.\n\nSince the establishment of the Royal Pages School, the former name of the university, King Chulalongkorn authorized the use of his personal emblem as a school emblem. The emblem is called \"Phra Kiao\", a Thai coronet, royal headgear for young princes and princesses. As the school was transformed into the university, the king authorized the use of \"phra kiao\". Today, \"phra kiao\" appears not only in formal letters and transcripts, but also on souvenirs made by the university as well as student uniforms.\n\nUndergraduates are required to wear a uniform when studying, taking examinations, or contacting the university in person. Male graduate students wear a collared or polo shirt and dark trousers. Women wear a plain blouse with long skirt.\n\nOriginally, the university uniform was adapted from a uniform worn by Chulalongkorn's heirs. The uniform was later updated, but the original is reserved as a formal uniform. The formal uniform is usually worn by student leaders and graduates.\n\nToday, the ordinary uniform for male undergraduate students consists of a plain white shirt with long or short sleeves and black (or dark blue) trousers. Wearing a dark blue necktie with colored \"phra kiao\" engraved on its front is mandatory for first-year students but optional for higher years. However, a black tie with a silver \"phra kiao\" pin is usually used by upperclass student in some faculties. Female students are required to wear a short-sleeved blouse with a fold along the spine. The buttons must be made of metal, and a small \"phra kiao\" emblem must be pinned on the right breast. A dark blue or black pleated skirt with any black, white, or brown shoes are worn. For female first-year students, white leather shoes are mandatory. Chulalongkorn University's uniforms have long been the template of many uniforms used in other universities in Thailand.\n\nThe academic dress of Chulalongkorn University is based on ceremonial attire called \"suea krui\", which is long-sleeved robe made of very fine mesh. Like dresses worn in the United Kingdom, the robe is open-fronted and calf-length. Cap and hood, however, are omitted. A colored felt strip decorated with gold-colored ribbons is attached to the margin of the gown including elbow and wrist. Bachelors and masters students wear a black strip, while scarlet and pink are for PhDs (including honorary degrees recipients) and lecturers. A yellow strip is specially used for the king of Thailand.\n\nIn addition, the colored yarn (bachelor) or ribbon (master and doctor) is added to the center of the strip longitudinally, according to degree-granting faculty. The gown was authorized for use by Vajiravudh.\n\nRain trees are common on the university campus. They are associated with the cycle of student life. Fresh green leaves at beginning of the term represent the freshmen's naivete. As the tree produces slimy pods and sheds leaves, the ground beneath it becomes slippery, thus alerting students to prepare for examinations. If they walk carefully, they will not slip (pass examinations). If they walk heedlessly, they will slip and fall (fail examinations).\n\nFrom 1937–1957, many rain trees were cut down to free space for new buildings. King Bhumibol Adulyadej noticed the dramatic decrease in the number of rain trees. On 15 January 1962, he brought five trees from Hua Hin and planted them in front of the university auditorium, proclaiming: \"...I give these five trees as an eternal memorial.\" ().\n\nChulalongkorn University consists of 19 faculties, three colleges, one school and many institutes which function as teaching and research units. \n\nIn 1917, the university had four faculties: Arts and Sciences, Public Administration, Engineering, and Medicine. The Faculty of Law was established in 1933 as part of the Faculty of Law and Political Science. From the 1930s to the 1950s it expanded to various fields including Pharmacy (1934), Veterinary Science (1935), Architecture (1939), Dentistry (1940), and Commerce and Accountancy (1943). In 1943, the regency government under General Phibun separated the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy, and Veterinary Science to become the University of Medical Sciences, now Mahidol University. In 1948, the Faculty of Political Science was re-established. The Faculty of Education was established in 1957 from the School of Teacher Training at Baan Somdet Chao Phraya (). In 1967, the Faculty of Veterinary Science was returned from Kasetsart University and the Faculty of Medicine at Chulalongkorn Hospital was moved from University of Medical Sciences to Chulalongkorn University. In 1972, the Faculty of Dentistry and Faculty of Pharmacy were reinstated.\n\nThe Office of the Commission on Agricultural Resource Education (OCARE) was established in 2009. It is not an administrative office, but a school in which teaching and research are carried out. It admits students from two groups: one from northern Thai provinces (Nan, Phayao, Phrae, Uttaradit) and another from the rest of country. It was upgraded to the School of Agricultural Resources with full degree-granting power on 5 March 2014. In 2014 it became the School of Agriculture, Chulalongkorn University (SAR). \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChulalongkorn University has research organizations in many fields of study. \n\nOther Rankings\n\n\n\nThe west side of Chula's campus is the site of this innovative park. Its 28 rai expanse contains a water retention pond with a capacity of 3.8 million liters and a rain garden. Both help to ameliorate Bangkok's seasonal flooding. It was built to commemorate Chula's 100th anniversary in 2017.\n\nChulalongkorn University International House (CU iHouse)\n\nChulalongkorn University International House (CU iHouse) is a 26-storey, 846-unit, on campus residence for international students and lecturers. Rooms come fully furnished with air conditioning, modern conveniences, 24-hour security and safety systems. The residence is included in the university’s shuttle bus services.\n\nThe university has bestowed honorary degrees on heads of state and other international dignitaries, including two U.S. presidents:\n\nChulalongkorn University student traditions include:\n\nThe university is host to 40 student clubs, including the Buddhism and Traditions Club, the Religious Studies Club, the Mind Study Club, and the Thai Classical Music Club. Chulalongkorn also has a Morals Network, which actively campaigns to protect student activities from damaging the university's reputation. The university's Cheer Club annually organizes the Chula-Thammasat traditional football match.\n\n\n\nThe university Robocup team, Plasma‐Z, got several prizes from the robotics competition as follow.\nMoreover, another university Robocup team, Plasma-RX has participated in Rescue robot league at World RoboCup 2008, Suzhou, China, and won the first prize and the best-in-class in mobility award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46590042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46590042", "title": "Corps Berlin", "text": "Corps Berlin\n\nThe Corps Berlin is a fraternity (\"Studentenverbindung\") in Berlin, Germany, founded on February 9, 2009 with roots dating back to December 2, 1859. It is one of 162 \"German Student Corps\" in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Belgium, Latvia and Hungary today. The Corps is a member of the Weinheimer Senioren-Convent (WSC), the second oldest federation of classical European fraternal corporations, with roots dating back to the 15th century and fraternities founded in several European countries.\n\nMembership in the fraternity is open to honorable men studying at one of Berlin's universities and is based exclusively on personality, good moral standing, and strength of character. Members of the Corps Berlin value and engage in the tradition of academic fencing as a way to sharpen and prove their character under pressure. Continuing a practice dating back into the 1700s, Corps Berlin's members wear the traditional couleur, colored stripes, in green-white-black. The fraternity teaches and expects tolerance from its members, stemming from diverse ethnic, national, religious and political backgrounds.\n\nLike all \"German Student Corps\", Corps Berlin expects tolerance from its members in political, scientific and religious affairs. Members are encouraged to have their own point of view about the world and be able to argue it, but Corps Berlin as an entity always remains neutral. This \"neutrality\" is a fundamental pillar of all Corps and differentiates them from fraternities who require a certain political or religious affinity. The fraternity encourages freshly admitted (pledging \"fox\") members with diverse ethnic, national, religious and political backgrounds to prove themselves as valuable Corps brothers, purely on the basis of personal character and merit, before becoming eligible to be fully incorporated (\"Rezeption\"). The fraternity has about 220 members of all ages (including alumni) coming from or currently residing in Europe, Asia, the Americas and Africa. Every full member is a member for life.\nMembers of the Corps Berlin value and practice the tradition of engagements in \"academic fencing\", or \"Mensur\" in German, with members of other old-school fraternities. Academic fencing, originating in the German school of fencing, is understood as a way to exercise good judgement and prove character, allowing participants to show determination by standing their ground under pressure, while enhancing the bonds between the Corps brothers at the same time. Mark Twain described one of these fencing duels/challenges in his day and age; his description is remarkably similar to current practices. Corps Berlin's members identify themselves wearing the traditional \"couleur\", colored stripes, as well as caps and/or other specific garments at official occasions. This tradition, known as \"wearing colors\" (German: \"Farben tragen\"), provides means to recognize members of other fraternities and, likewise, identification for the Corps brothers with each other and their traditions.\n\n\"Activity\" and \"responsibility\" are two fundamental expectations for fraternity members. With the goal to achieve members who are prepared to become active leaders in society, every Corps brother is expected to hold a leadership position at least once for a term (\"Semester\") while a student. Members are further encouraged to organize internal and open fraternity events that draw attention from other fraternities and guests from industry, academia, politics and other active societies. Allocating the necessary resources appropriately and living up to set expectations teaches responsibility. All members must show active participation in the regular fraternity Convents, providing the foundation for the fraternity's members to meet and discuss past, present and future developments. Decisions are cast in a democratic manner, sometimes after intense debates. Participation at such Convents teaches a better understanding of proper argumentation, group dynamics and critical analysis of other members' views, plans and arguments, thereby preparing its participants to become active members of society. Similarly, every member must finish his higher educational degree with good academic standing in order to advance to the status of \"Alter Herr\" (alumnus).\n\nLong-term guidance is expected from and provided by said \"Alte Herren\", who often remain very engaged and well connected with the fraternity. Every year at the end of May, student and alumni members of all German Student Corps meet in one of two cities (Weinheim and Bad Kösen) for three days to refresh their bonds with their fraternity and friends from the entire Corps network (WSC/KSCV). In addition to these international meetings once a year, alumni join the student members for multiple local meetings, lasting an evening or a weekend. These regular meetings result in strong bonds spanning the generations within the fraternity.\n\nThe fraternity was founded by joining three Corps on February 9, 2009: \"Corps Cheruscia\" with its original founding date December 2, 1859; \"Corps Rheno-Guestphalia\" with its original founding date February 4, 1870; and \"Corps Teutonia\" with its original founding date July 1, 1870.\n\nThe fraternity has official relationships with the Corps Altsachsen Dresden, Corps Saxo-Thuringia München in Munich and Corps Hannoverania in Hanover, forming the \"Blaues Kartell\" of four fraternities throughout Germany that understand the cartel as one large fraternity in four different cities.\n\nCorps Berlin is a member of the \"Blaues Kartell\", a circle of four German Student Corps that understand the union as \"one fraternity spanning four cities\" (Berlin, Dresden, Hanover, and Munich).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8040493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8040493", "title": "Delco Hi-Q", "text": "Delco Hi-Q\n\nDelco Hi-Q, formerly Scott's Hi-Q, or just Hi-Q is an academic quiz competition. It was founded in 1948, and is now an intracounty competition of high school students in six different states: Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Washington, Ohio, Florida, and Alabama.\n\nDelco Hi-Q is the oldest continuous academic quiz competition in the United States. It was started as radio quiz program for high school students in Delaware County, Pennsylvania by the Scott Paper Company, which ran it as a community relations program. \"Hi\" represented \"High School\" and \"Q\" represented \"I.Q.\" The first prize in 1948 was a $1,000 \"auditorium style\" television set. Robert O. Johnson served as the first Quizmaster. During the early years of Hi-Q, contests were broadcast on radio station WPWA 1590.\n\nQuestions were designed to test the general knowledge that students received in the classroom. Over the years, new reference materials were added and students began to answer questions based on specific categories and reference works.\n\nTeams were initially composed of four students for each school; teams were subsequently expanded to six students and then to the current eight-member team. Drawn from three elements, SCOTT, High School, and I.Q., the program was known from the beginning as Scott’s Hi-Q. The success of Scott’s Hi-Q in Delaware County led Scott Paper to introduce the program across the country. Hi-Q National Director, Donna Zerby, helped the competition expand in 1976 to Washington State, in 1977 to Wisconsin/Michigan, in 1982 to Maine, in 1984 to Arkansas, and in 1987 to Alabama.\n\nAfter the merger of Scott Paper with Kimberly-Clark in 1997, the program was turned over to longtime director, Donna Zerby. She partnered with the Delaware County Chamber of Commerce to provide stable funding for the program. Kimberly-Clark Corporation-Chester Operations became the primary corporate sponsor and the twenty-one area high schools began financially contributing to the program. Other sponsors and supporters began contributing. Donna Zerby also continued her involvement with Hi-Q on a national level, serving as an independent consultant to those locations.\n\nDelaware County Intermediate Unit (DCIU) and The Foundation of the Delaware County Chamber entered into a joint sponsorship agreement in 2004 to co-sponsor Delco Hi-Q. DCIU is responsible for providing a Quizmaster, Program Director, as well as the technical services needed to run and manage the program. The Foundation is responsible for soliciting contributions for the program, collecting entrance fees, administering funds, supplies, and conducts the annual awards ceremony. Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union joined Kimberly-Clark as a primary corporate sponsor in 2004 with an initial five year, $75,000 commitment.\n\nFranklin Mint Federal Credit Union joined Delco Hi-Q as a primary corporate sponsor in 2004 and has made a long-term commitment to strengthen and sponsor the program and the Partners in Education Celebration. DCIU and Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union started the Delco Hall of Honor in the same year. Its purpose is to honor past participants and supporters and to provide role models for current Hi-Q participants Another new tradition began in 2005, DCIU and FMFCU partnered with the Delaware County Daily Times to start the tradition of the All Delco Hi-Q Team. Donna Zerby was the first inductee into the Hall of Honor and considered it the greatest honor of her career.\n\nThe Partners in Education Celebration was started in 2005. What was once a luncheon honoring the three top teams, became a 600-person banquet honoring all of the Delco Hi-Q participants. The dinner is held annually and is presented by the Foundation and DCIU. Alex Trebek served as the guest speaker and 6ABC's Action News anchor Rick Williams was master of ceremonies for the first celebration.\n\nAfter the passing of Donna in 2005, Ginger Beaumont agreed to serve as director for the 2005/06 season. Ginger had previously spent six years coordinating the Delaware County program under the direction of Mrs. Zerby. The 2005/06 season was dedicated in memory of Donna and her 42-year association with Hi-Q.\n\nIn 2006, Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union signed an agreement with DCIU to provide question resources and Program Directors to Delco Hi-Q. Ginger Beaumont remained with Hi-Q and serves as Co-Director with Rick Durante of FMFCU.\n\nIn 2008, Delaware County Intermediate Unit and Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union became co-sponsors of the program. Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union Foundation manages the program.\n\nHi-Q competitions still take place in Washington, Wisconsin, Alabama, and Pennsylvania, each with different sponsoring organizations. In 1979, Tom McCarthy began his 39 season run as Quizmaster. Rick Durante, Executive Director Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union Foundation, now serves as Quizmaster and Director of the competition.\n\nTwenty-one Delaware County high schools participate in Delco Hi-Q.\n\nEach school team is composed of up to ten students. \nEach school hosts one contest during the standard season.\n\nQuestions are prepared from 14 subjects, including: Art History, Biology, Chemistry, Current Events, Geography, Literature, Mathematics, Physics, Shakespeare, Sports, U.S. Government, U.S. History, and World History. Questions are selected from standard high school scholastic curricula, general scholastic knowledge, or from reference materials provided.\n\nEach high school team competes in three matches each season, excluding possible semi-final and championship appearances. Each match consists of three competing teams. Each match is hosted by one of the participating teams competing in that match. Matches are typically held in the high school auditorium on stage, before an audience of students, teachers, faculty, and community members. Questions are read aloud by the Quizmaster, and at times team members use buzzers to answer questions. Points awarded throughout the season accumulate and determine semi-final and championship entry eligibility.\n\nThe highest-scoring team at the end of the regular season automatically becomes a participant in the Championship Match and does not compete in the Semifinals. The Semifinal Round is a six-team competition. From points accumulated during the regular season, the second highest-scoring team will play teams in positions six and seven. The third highest-scoring team will play teams in positions four and five. In the single-contest Championship Match, the two semifinal winners compete against the highest-scoring team from the standard season. All teams start at zero in the semifinal and the championship match.\n\nDelco Hi-Q participants are honored at the annual \"Partners in Education\" dinner in May. Guest speakers have included celebrities such as Alex Trebek and John Allen Paulos.\n\nIn the Championship Match, first, second and third place teams win cash awards for their schools of $3,000, $2,500 and $2,000 respectively.\n\nA revolving trophy is presented annually to the Champion for display by that school throughout the next season. A permanent award is also presented to the top school. Individually engraved plaques are awarded to each school. Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union and Kimberly-Clark Corporation Chester Operations sponsor awards for each team.\n\nThe Partners in Education Celebration was started in 2005. What was once a luncheon honoring the three top teams, became a 600-person banquet honoring all of the Delco Hi-Q participants. The dinner is held annually and is presented by the Foundation and DCIU. Jeopardy host Alex Trebek served as the guest speaker and 6ABC's Action News anchor Rick Williams was master of ceremonies for the first celebration.\n\nDCIU and Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union started the Delco Hall of Honor in the same year. Its purpose is to honor past participants and supporters and to provide role models for current Hi-Q participants Another new tradition began in 2005, DCIU and FMFCU partnered with the Delaware County Daily Times to start the tradition of the All Delco Hi-Q Team. Donna Zerby was the first inductee into the Hall of Honor and considered it the greatest honor of her 42-year Hi-Q career.\n\nAfter the passing of Donna in 2005, Ginger Beaumont agreed to serve as director for the 2005/06 season. Mrs. Beaumont had previously spent six years coordinating the Delaware County program under the direction of Mrs. Zerby. The 2005/06 season was dedicated in memory of Donna and her 42-year association with Hi-Q. The revolving championship trophy was renamed the \"Donna Zerby Trophy.\"\n\nIn 2006, Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union signed an agreement with DCIU to provide question resources and Program Directors to Delco Hi-Q. Ginger Beaumont remained with Hi-Q and served as Co-Director with Rick Durante of FMFCU until 2007.\n\nIn 2008, Delaware County Intermediate Unit and Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union became co-sponsors of the program.\n\nAs of the 2018/19 Season Rick Durante of Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union serves as Director and Quizmaster, Danielle Griffin is Assistant Director, and production engineer is Dave Bramble from Delaware County Intermediate Unit.\n\nIn addition to the participating schools’ support, primary corporate sponsors are Franklin Mint Federal Credit Union and the Wilbur C. and Betty Lea Henderson Foundation Valedictorian sponsor is Kimberly-Clark Corporation. Contributors and supporters for the 2008/2009 season are the Delaware County Daily Times.\n\nThe first-, second-, and third-place finalists from 1949 to 2017 are as follows:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>The champion schools no longer participate in Hi-Q because of school mergers.\n\nHi-Q competitions occur in Washington State, run and sponsored by Everett Community College. Currently, there are nine teams, classified by their size and athletic districts. Matches follow the same format as the Delco Hi-Q team, and Washington state champions participate in a national championship, between Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Alabama.\n\nEverett Community College is the primary sponsor for the program in the Everett Region. The program also receives support from local community groups, businesses, and foundations. Additionally, participating schools contribute toward the program's funding. The Hi-Q Regional Coordinator from Everett Community College manages the program to meet objectives and ensure a positive experience for the students.\n\nIn 2012 Everett Community College dropped its funding for the Hi-Q program, but local schools have adopted the program. The program is now headed by Monroe High School. Participating schools as of October 2012 include Lynnwood High School, Edmonds Woodway High School, Henry M. Jackson High School, Archbishop Murphy High School, Stanwood High School, Meadowdale High School, Mountlake Terrace High School, Marysville Pilchuck High School, Marysville Getchell High School.\n\n"}
{"id": "44975769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44975769", "title": "Department of Education and Training (Australia)", "text": "Department of Education and Training (Australia)\n\nThe Australian Department of Education and Training is a department of the Government of Australia charged with the responsibility for national policies and programs that help Australians access quality and affordable early childhood education, school education, higher education, vocational education and training, international education and academic research.\n\nThe head of the department is the Secretary of the Department of Education and Training, currently Michele Bruniges, who reports to the Minister for Education and Training, currently the Hon. Dan Tehan MP. \n\nThe department was formed by way of an Administrative Arrangements Order issued on 23 December 2014. It incorporated the functions of the previous Department of Education, except for child care which was transferred to the Department of Social Services. Vocational training was transferred from the Department of Industry to the new Department of Education and Training.\n\nThe Department of Education and Training's predecessor departments have been:\n\nThe functions of the department are broadly classified into the following matters:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27446735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27446735", "title": "Dialogue journal", "text": "Dialogue journal\n\nA dialogue journal is an ongoing written interaction between two people to exchange experiences, ideas, or reflections. It is used most often in education as a means of sustained written interaction between students and teachers at all education levels. It can be used to promote second language learning (English and other languages) and learning in all areas.\n\nDialogue journals are used in many schools as a form of communication between teachers and students to improve the life that they share in the classroom by exchanging ideas and shared topics of interest, promoting writing in a non-evaluative context, and promoting student engagement with learning. They are also used between teachers and teacher trainers to provide professional development opportunities and improve teaching.\n\nDialogue journal interaction occurs in notebooks, letters, email exchanges, and audio journals. The important feature is that two people are communicating with each other, about topics and issues of interest to both, and the interaction continues over time.\n\nDialogue journals are a teacher-developed practice, first researched in the 1980s in an ethnographic study of a sixth grade American classroom with native English speakers, supported by a grant to the Center for Applied Linguistics from the National Institute of Education (NIE), Teaching & Learning Division. Applications to other educational settings developed quickly as a way to enhance writing development and the teacher-student relationship across linguistic and cultural barriers, with increasing use in second language instruction, deaf education, and adult literacy education. Since the 1980s, dialogue journal practice has expanded to many countries around the world.\n\nThe Further Reading section at the end of this article includes resources with guidelines on specific ways to use dialogue journal writing in various contexts.\n\nThe use of dialogue journals as a classroom practice was first documented in the early 1980s, with an in-depth study of its use in a sixth grade classroom in Los Angeles. The teacher, Leslee Reed, wrote daily throughout the school year with each of her students in a dialogue journal (a small notebook) to promote personalized, ongoing, supportive communication.\n\nThe first study of Mrs. Reed's classroom of all native English speakers (1979-1980) was followed by a second study (1981-1982) of the same teacher teaching a 6th grade class of students from other countries, all learning English as a second language (ESL), again for an entire year.\n\nThe practice spread to deaf education in 1982, with the invitation from William Stokoe at the Gallaudet University Linguistics Research Laboratory to Jana Staton to conduct research and work with teachers at all levels on the Gallaudet University campus.\n\nWith the publication of research on the sixth grade ESL students, use of dialogue journals with ESL students and research on the practice and outcomes began growing through the 1980s and 1990s. The practice is now used in educational settings and classrooms at all age levels, from kindergarten through university courses, in adult education programs, and in teacher education programs, to promote open communication, connections among teachers and learners, knowledge sharing, and reading and writing development.\n\nResearch on dialogue journal use at all age levels—with native speakers of the language of the writing, first and second language learners, deaf students, and teachers—has identified key features of dialogue journal communication that set it apart from most writing in educational settings: authentic communication, collaborative learning and knowledge building, critical thinking, personal voice, critical pedagogy, reciprocal discourse, zone of proximal development, literacy as an interactive process, relationship building, and counseling.\n\nA dialogue journal allows students and a teacher to together use authentic communication (including questioning, complaining, complimenting, apologizing, and requesting) to communicate honestly and openly and “get things done”. This distinguishes it from most student writing assignments, which are restricted to monologic description, explanation, or narrative. This aspect of everyday language use is known in philosophy as speech acts (John Searle) and in linguistics as pragmatics. (J.L. Austin) Dialogue journal conversation, unlike academic writing, opens up opportunities to use almost the full range of these natural functions of language.\n\nBy engaging in interactive and functional interactions in a private context, dialogue journal partners in educational settings are engaged in collaborative learning and collaborative knowledge building about the topic or task they are working on, each other's experiences and background, and perceptions and thoughts about shared topics. In a classroom setting, the teacher is able to learn about each student's interests, concerns, fears, and experience within and outside the school.\n\nDialogue journals have been studied by a number of researchers for their value in developing students' critical thinking by providing opportunities for students to practice self-reflective awareness and to critique classroom practices, teaching assignments, and social contexts, in both first and second language acquisition settings. Practice with critical thinking in exploring their own worlds and the worlds of others, with the words that they have at their disposal, results in students experiencing personal empowerment and expressing a personal voice—the unique expression of the self that seems like hearing that particular person speak in their writing.\n\nCritical pedagogy in dialogue journal writing creates contexts for students to think critically, often in collaboration with the teacher, and develop communicative language abilities as well as critical understanding and awareness of the language and the world. When critical pedagogy is used in language teaching and in interactive writing, learners have the opportunity to use the language in context, use it in writing to consider authentic situations, and think and act as critically conscious beings.\n\nThe dialogue journal's reciprocal discourse structure is often cited as the motivation for both teacher and student to continue their engagement with each other over time without external coercion. The reciprocal nature of the discourse provides multiple opportunities to develop an understanding of the other person's world, culture, and experiences, and thus learning occurs for both. The power to question, challenge, and complain becomes equally shared by both writers.\n\nDialogue journals visibly record how learning occurs in the zone of proximal development, a key concept in the psychology of Lev Vygotsky. According to Vygotsky, learning takes place in the space or \"zone\" that a child or learner is working in when solving a problem or accomplishing a task. The teacher or more competent peer assists, \"scaffolds,\" the child's actions or behavior by working collaboratively with the learner. This is different from the learner's actual abilities when working independently on the same task or goal. This concept captures the nature of dialogue journal communication, in which the goal of understanding is achieved by a collaborative effort, with the more competent partner ensuring its accomplishment\n\nAuthentic written communication in a first or second language over time develops learner competence in expressing oneself in the language and understanding the statements of the other person. Thus, in dialogue journals, written literacy learning is an interactive process, which moves from conversation to text. Opportunities to participate in authentic written communication in a new language, in contrast to the restrictions of formal written assignments, is perhaps the major reason that teachers of second languages, particularly of English, have adopted this practice in classrooms around the world. (See section on Dialogue Journal Use in International Settings.)\n\nWhile the descriptions here focus on interactive writing as a way to promote student learning, improved student-teacher relationships can also promote the health and success of students, especially more behaviorally challenged students. In a non-threatening, private context, real issues and personal problems can be discussed and resolved.\n\nIn dialogue journal interactions, reading and writing are integrated as communicative activities. A few researchers have directly explored the value of dialogue journal writing for developing and assessing reading competence, especially for students acquiring English as a second language and in literature and reading classes with developing readers. One question about the writing it to what extent, and in what ways, it serves as a reading text.\n\nWalworth described the use of dialogue journals to individualize instruction for profoundly deaf college students in advanced college-level reading classes. The written interactions with her students, still struggling with reading and writing in English, provided her with an immediate, ongoing assessment of individual levels of comprehension. Walworth's analysis shows the growth of student comprehension, as student entries began to predict and clarify story plot and character relationships and get at the “deep reasoning” of the characters in the novels. She argues that the teacher/student interactions provide students with opportunities to “try out ideas” and explore the edges of their comprehension, taking the risks that advanced adult reading requires. Walworth's analysis demonstrates how a teacher and a student can work together, first to determine the student's schema or background knowledge and then to make use of it to promote understanding of the meaning of the text.\n\nStudies with hearing students learning English in university courses find similar patterns, with the writing of the teacher providing continuity and coherence to ideas discussed, flow to the writing, and mutual understanding of ideas.\n\nShuy conducted a case study of a profoundly deaf student's dialogue journal entries in high school to assess the student's growth in reading comprehension over time. He identified five specific features of the student's responses to the teacher's entries that demonstrate comprehension: (1) propositional statements, (2) questions, (3) appropriate inferences, (4) appropriate responses to opinions, and (5) requests for clarification. Shuy argues that dialogue journals can be used as a more accurate assessment of student text comprehension than decontextualized standardized tests of comprehension, particularly for students from a completely different first language context (e.g., American Sign Language).\n\nSeveral studies by Atwell and others have described the use of dialogue journals as opportunities for students and a teacher to discuss books that students are reading. These studies focus on the role of interactional dialogues in expanding students’ awareness of and engagement with books and authors, with the goal of taking readers deeper into written texts. Atwell points out that dialogue journal interactions create the zone of proximal development, in which “mediated learning” can occur, as an expert reader cooperates with a less experienced one to construct meaning from a text. Atwell found that the dialogue journal conversations (1) encouraged students to connect fiction to their own lives; (2) encouraged reflection on themselves as readers, making them conscious of how they learned to read, which included process and rituals; and (3) developed awareness of character, plot, and book structure. Atwell described how the ongoing dialogue changed her written responses from asking “test questions” (questions to which the teacher already knows the answer) to a pattern of offering advice only when asked, and using “nudging” comments to expand students’ awareness of meaning and of strategies for understanding written text.\n\nWerderich conducted a grounded theory study of middle school teachers’ responses to their students, as they scaffolded students’ literacy understandings. Werderich's analysis provides evidence for reading as a dynamic thinking event, in which the teacher's feedback, modeling of interpretative responses, and reflective questions facilitate the development of student comprehensions of text.\n\nFallon, Wilson, and Wells describe how writing with adult English language learners who are new readers help the learners to process texts that they encounter in everyday life (newspapers books, magazines, recipes, school notices, bills, applications, legal documents) and to have the ability and confidence to become engaged with and make interpretations about more academic texts that they read.\n\nIn dialogue journal interactions, regardless of whether or not the topic discussed is specified as a reading assignment, reading and writing are integrated as communicative activities.\n\nIncreasingly, writing is a critical part of learning in all areas of education—English Language Arts and all content areas. The ability to write effectively is a requirement for success at all levels of education from elementary school through high school and in university and adult education classes. The current focus of the Common Core State Standards and World-Readiness Standards on academic excellence, including writing, has increased the amount and sophistication of writing that students are engaged in and required to do.\n\nResearch shows that the act of writing deepens understanding of a topic or area of thought, improves the ability to process and express ideas, and can result in increased critical thinking. However, when ability to perform on specific writing tasks is the primary or only focus in class, student engagement can suffer. Hall and Duffy describe a group of teachers who found that, when they examined the writing of a group of elementary school students and considered what was missing from the children's writing, it was the children themselves who were missing. “The boring sentences sounded as if they had been borrowed from basal readers” (p. 523).\n\nStudies of dialogue journal writing have shown that students (and the teachers, classroom helpers, or prospective teachers they are writing with) can increase their sense of engagement with each other, learn to express themselves for an audience, and create an atmosphere of openness and expression when that is the focus of the writing.\n\nAt the same time, a question that has been asked and addressed in the literature is, “Do dialogue journals help students to become better at writing and to see themselves as writers?”. Since dialogue journal writing has many features of conversation/interaction, does that type of writing improve the types of writing desired and required in school?\n\nThe answer to this question, of course, depends on the level of the students, the types of writing they are engaged in and need to carry out, and the nature of the written dialogue. Studies seeking to address this question have identified some positive results.\n\nFor example, research on students’ writing in dialogue with the teacher and with other students, carried out with elementary school students, high school students, university students, and adults in adult education classes has had the following results. Students ...\nWriting with another person also breaks some students’ writer's block. Finally, writing tasks that serve authentic communicative purposes permit real writing development and give students both a sense of the demands of the writing task and of specific components of language use.\n\nCurrent research and educational practice focus on the importance of providing instruction that promotes cognitive development and critical thinking. This is true not only in contexts where thinking and writing are done independently, but also in contexts where both young and adult learners interact and collaborate with more knowledgeable others. Lee describes the research that is guiding this shift, with a focus on developing the ability to engage in argumentative writing: A growing body of research shifts attention from what an individual student can do in isolation to how to establish a classroom community in which students experience an authentic need to engage in argumentation. Members of such classroom communities \"work together and make decisions\" about what counts as argument and what is required to support a new knowledge claim (p. 92). (Emphasis added)Prain and Hand describe the need for students to be able to “choose and define problems; develop and test multimodal inquiry methods; examine findings; build, critique, and review theories and models; and make a persuasive case for claims” (p. 432) in their writing.\n\nWhile personal journal writing has a long history in education settings as a way to promote reflective thinking, interactive writing in a dialogue journal, with a teacher, promotes not only personal reflection but also reflection with another person, who is often more knowledgeable about the topics under consideration and provides a scaffold or support for the learner's own thoughts. Research has shown that the act of writing itself deepens understanding of a topic or area of thought, improves the ability to process and express ideas, and fosters higher cognitive functions. Writing with a teacher or professor, in a dialogue journal, provides the opportunity for the learner to consider and incorporate the thoughts and manners of expression of an experienced member of the culture about topics that the learner is thinking and writing about. Dialogue journal writing can be described as a place for risk-free experimentation with written language, as an opportunity for developing critical literacy and a reflective perspective on a topic of focus.\n\nEarly research on dialogue journals explored the cognitive processing inherent in interactive written dialogues with a skilled teacher, drawing on Vygotsky's theory of interactional scaffolding of learning. Staton studied the gradual elaboration of topic understanding on the part of a 6th grade students, the acquisition of problem solving strategies over extended periods of time, and the ways that a novice learner and teacher “thinking together” about a topic allowed the student to see and assimilate patterns of thought from an experienced and successful member of the culture (in this case, the teacher).\n\nRecent research on the use of dialogue journals in second language acquisition settings has focused on their value in developing students' critical thinking by providing opportunities for them to practice self-reflective awareness, develop an empowered personal “voice” and critique classroom practices. For example, in a case study of dialogue journal writing over 10 months between a 6-year-old Farsi speaker beginning to learn English with his Canadian teacher, Nassaji and Cumming demonstrate the power of creating conditions for a young English learner to develop language proficiency in “a complementary, dynamic, and evolving manner” (p. 113), as the teacher worked within the learner's zone of proximal development (ZPD). In a study of the dialogue journal writing of high school students in Iran over the course of a year, Ghahremani-Ghajar and Mirhosseini found growth in the percentage of entries reflecting critical or creative thinking, instead of descriptive or personal references, which were prominent in the students’ early writing. In a series of studies of dialogue journal writing in university classes in Hong Kong, Guizhou, and Beijing, China, Chiesa and Bailey found that the writing was not only a language-learning task but also “a way [for the students] to grow socially, mentally, and emotionally with the support of a teacher” (p. 53). (See further discussion in the sections on Second Language Learning and Dialogue Journal Use in International Settings.)\n\nThese patterns have been described in other academic settings as well. For example, in a study of first-year students in medical school writing in dialogue journals with their professors, Ashbury, Fletcher, and Birtwhistle found that the interactive journal writing “provided a safe place for students to describe their experiences and relationships and to question their own values and beliefs.” Similar patterns are described by Lucas (writing in a graduate linguistics course for deaf university students), and Walworth (writing with deaf high school and university students). The process of writing in this way, with their teachers, broke down barriers between them, through mutual sharing of thoughts and feelings. This dynamic led to enhanced rapport and communication, facilitated students’ personal and reflective perspectives, and initiated and encouraged self-awareness.\n\nMuch of the use of and research on interactive writing takes place in the field of second language learning, whether students are learning English or another world language (Chinese, Farsi, French, Spanish, etc.) in the United States or another country. (See Casanave for a summary of diverse uses of journal writing in different contexts.) The first published study of the interactive writing processes and written patterns of students learning English as an additional language was of sixth grade students in California writing with their teacher, Leslie Reed. This study of the daily writing of these students and their teacher over the course of a school year demonstrated that young students, new to the United States and to learning English, can begin to write early in the year, and the richness and complexity of their writing develops over time. As Peyton and Staton describe, [As we read the dialogue journals] we discovered that these students \"could\" write, even though they were still learning English, and some at very beginning stages. They could use writing to communicate meaning, and most were eager to do so. We also found that the journals became an important place for making sense of the world – in many cases a new school, language, and culture. The students could ask questions about everything from Mrs. Reed’s age to the structure of an atom, worry over problems with school friends or content, and complain when things didn’t go as they thought they should.As we analyzed the writing done throughout the year, we found that the students who were more advanced and motivated were able to break out of some of the constraints of teacher-directed classroom work and explore the limits of their English proficiency, with the teacher's entries serving as a model and guide. Some of their writing in the journals was more complex than the other writing that they did to complete class assignments. Students at the beginning stages of learning English were reluctant to write at first and wrote very little, sometimes only the date. They moved to using a specific pattern in one or two sentences (e.g., I like ____.”), until by the end of the year, they were using English constructions including articles; past, progressive, and future tense; and improved spelling (e.g., a change from \"bekes\" to \"because\"). The strategies that the teacher used in her writing seemed to have an impact on the students’ written expression and writing development.\n\nSince then, studies of dialogue journal writing (discussed below in this section) have found that it is a valuable instructional tool in language learning classes with children and adolescents, university students, and adults in adult education programs. A valuable resource is Casanave, who describes, with examples and suggestions, journal and dialogue journal writing with students writing in a second/new language – young children, high school and college students, and adults – with low proficiency, intermediate proficiency, and advanced proficiency in the language they are learning. This provides an excellent summary of these contexts and guidance for working in them. (See also sections in this article on uses of dialogue journals in international settings, where students are learning to write in additional languages. The sections on deaf education, counseling, and with students with special needs, also include children and adults learning a second or additional language, often English as an additional language.)\n\nThe writing can take place between students and the teacher or between language learners and native language speakers. The purposes might be overall language acquisition, development of writing abilities, opportunities to extend learning of the language beyond time in class, promotion of ability to transition to academic writing in university classes, and easing of the trauma of transition to life in the United States.\n\nNassaji and Cumming studied 10 months of dialogue journal writing between a six-year-old Farsi speaker (‘Ali’) beginning to learn English and his teacher in Canada. They found that in the writing, both writers “acted as proficient users of English – in spite of Ali’s emergent spelling, vocabulary, syntax, and penmanship – because the dialogue journal created a ‘setting for thought’, in which both participants reciprocally shared common knowledge, purposes, and tools of communication, evidently understanding and appreciating them” (p. 114). This process seemed to help Ali write in his second language. While he initially used one language function (reporting – of general facts, personal facts, or opinions), the teacher used a variety of language functions, thus exposing Ali to them (reporting, requesting, evaluating predicting, and giving directives). The authors state, “We assume [the teacher] was striving to scaffold her written interactions to prompt Ali’s potential for learning English in this context” (p. 104). Gradually, it seems in response to this scaffolding, Ali began to use the teacher's questioning patterns and reporting styles and to use a variety of other language functions as well.\n\nLipp (2001) was teaching a Methods of TESL (Teaching of English as a Second Language) course at California State University, Fresno, for students preparing for careers as elementary school teachers. She collaborated with a third grade teacher in an elementary school in Fresno to arrange for the prospective teachers to write in “pen pal journals” with Hmong refugee children in the teacher's third grade class (children 8–9 years old). The pen pals wrote to each other once a week and also spent time together, when the university students visited the school to talk with the students and participate in special events. Four themes emerged during the course of this project: 1) crossing boundaries – elementary school children and university students, and a university professor and elementary school teacher, worked together closely for a year; 2) becoming aware of and sensitive to the broader sociological context – the university students learned to engage with the third grade students about topics the students introduced and to become interested in the lifestyle that the students described, which was very different from their own. They also developed understanding of literacy and second language learning processes; 3) empowering children as writers – The children primarily wrote narratives about their lives and activities, and some of them “used the pen pal journal as a forum to elaborate on their lives and to share stories shaped by their imagination, their gender, and their culture” (p. 121); 4) recognizing interaction as a key component of literacy – The written interaction became a regular part of the children's lives, and many of them moved from answering the university student's questions to introducing their own topics for written discussion. The chapter concludes with helpful tips for setting up and maintaining a pen pal project between children and prospective teachers.\n\nAlexander (2001) studied the dialogue journal writing that she did with grade 6, 7, and 8 students learning English (ages 11–15) in her classes in a suburban U.S. middle school outside Chicago, Illinois. She found a number of benefits of the writing: The journals provided an excellent way for the students to practice grammar, spelling, punctuation, and handwriting in a real, communicative context. They provided a longitudinal record of the students’ growth in written English and a way for her, and the students, to notice what they were learning and how their English was developing. They also provided a personal and private connection to a trustworthy adult. At a time when teenagers report more and more alienation from the mainstream of adult society, dialogue journals are an excellent way to keep up with teens’ emotional changes and clarify information for them in a way that does not embarrass them in front of their peers. The dialogue journal provides a safe haven for building trust with an adult, naming and exploring feelings, and resolving issues. (p. 35) Alexander includes a list of practical ideas for writing with students, including ways to adapt the teacher's writing when writing with students learning English, from low-beginning to high-beginning and intermediate levels.\n\nIn international contexts, Liao and Wong studied dialogue journal writing of 41 10th grade students learning English in Taiwan. They found improvement in the students’ writing ﬂuency; writing performance on content, organization, and vocabulary; reﬂective awareness of writing and growth as learners; and motivation to write. The writing also reduced the students’ writing anxiety. The researchers reported that the writing was an important tool for self-understanding and self-growth and allowed students to consider something new; enhanced their self-conﬁdence, so that they could get along better with others; matured them through sharing their ideas, feelings, and self-perceptions; consolidated their thinking when re-reading their journals; strengthened their conﬁdence in English writing; and gave them the chance to reﬂect on their daily lives.\n\nJardine wrote in dialogue journals with 28 10- to 11-year-old Xhosa-speaking students in grades 4 and 5 in an English-medium school in the Western Cape of South Africa. Although the goal in the school was for the children to learn English, Jardine wanted to help them see the value of their home language (Xhosa) and use it to express themselves in writing. She wanted to investigate the dialogue journal writing process as a means of raising the status of Xhosa at the school, as well as affirm the voices of children in asymmetrical multilingual settings (where English had much more status than their home language; e.g., she found that the Xhosa speakers in the school were often considered to be “English learners rather than potentially multilingual and resourceful” p. 16). Jardine tried to move from writing English to writing in Xhosa, but most of the writing was in English. Still, she found that because of the relationships that were formed in the writing, the children were able to write in English and take risks with spelling and forms, even though their English was limited. At the same time, as they were encouraged to write in Xhosa, and as she wrote in Xhosa with them, they became more confident about writing in that language as well. “In the journal writing process, I aimed to show the children that the languages they use matter, that their voices matter, and that they matter” (p. 72). After this experience of writing in both languages, Jardine concludes that, In my view, this counter-discourse of valuing African languages, seldom expressed by parents and teachers, was the most striking language awareness response to the journal writing process. The children had come to the ideological awareness of ‘language-as-resource’ as envisaged in the South African Constitution. This heightened language awareness illustrates the potential of multilingual dialogue writing to provide children with opportunities to voice themselves in writing and ‘claim the right to speak’ (p. 70).(For further discussion of dialogue journal writing in international contexts, see the section on \"Dialogue journal use in international settings\".)\n\nStudies of dialogue journal writing with university students have found that they not only provide a way for students to grow socially, mentally, and emotionally with the support of a teacher but also to connect what students are learning inside the language classroom to their experiences beyond the classroom.\n\nChiesa, Damerow, and Bailey describe six features of pedagogical scaffolding that might be used in dialogue journal writing in university courses—continuity and coherence, supportive environment, intersubjectivity, flow, contingency, and the handover/takeover principle. They analyzed the writing of students’ dialogue journal entries and the teachers’ responses in two courses and asked: Are the six features of pedagogical scaffolding present in the students’ dialogue journal entries and the teachers’ responses? They found that continuity and coherence, supportive environment, intersubjectivity, and flow and contingency were evident throughout the writing, and some evidence of the handover/takeover principle appeared as the students’ independent ideas emerged over time.\n\nMoulton and Holmes looked at ways that dialogue journal writing can provide a bridge for international students learning English in a college or university course that spans the chasm between cultures. In a study of ESL students in an intermediate composition class at a university over a 15-week semester, they found that the students used the dialogue journal writing to explore cultural issues as they experienced various stages of acculturation. The writing demonstrated that [The students’] feelings progressed from cultural isolation to a willingness to share cultural perspectives and, finally, to understanding and acceptance of their new culture. In the dialogue journals, the students were free from the constraints that bound their other written work and were able to use their new language expressively for their own purposes. The journals seemed to be important to the students, not for grades or the teacher’s approval, but because they alleviated some of their feelings of cultural isolation and helped them make the transition from their own cultures to a new one” (p. 21). The authors conclude that dialogue journal writing can allow students “to move through the stages of acculturation naturally, enhancing language acquisition in the process” (p. 22).\n\nDolly, in a study of dialogue writing between adult ESL students in an intensive English program at Indiana University of Pennsylvania's American Language Institute, found that the journals, which took place between adults (students and teacher) provided an opportunity for reciprocity, for the partners to share responsibility for conversation management – introducing and extending topics and handling communication problems. The nonnative English speakers’ role in and contributions to the interaction became as important as those of the native English speaker.\n\nDialogue journal use as a tool to promote language learning has not been confined to the learning of English. For example, Darhower used them in an intermediate college Spanish class and found that the students used the writing to reflect on their experiences learning Spanish, consolidate information about topics covered in class, and use language functions that have been introduced and covered in class.\n\nDialogue journal writing has been used extensively in adult education classes for students learning English, from beginning to advanced levels of English proficiency and literacy, and the benefits described are rich and complex.\n\nTalburt wrote in dialogue journals for 16 weeks with her students who were refugee women from Russia, in an Advanced Grammar class in an adult ESL program. In her analysis of the writing with one student, “Marina” (a 25-year-old woman from Moscow who had finished a university degree in the sciences when living there), Talburt found that the journal gave Marina a place where she was confident expressing her identity and her thoughts about many issues. This reinforced Marina's sense that she could understand and be understood by Americans and communicate with them beyond superficial levels, which she didn’t have when she arrived. At one point Marina wrote,You asked me about my feelings about the jornal. I like it very much, I enjoy doing that. Now it’s part of my life. If it stops, I’ll lose something very important for me. … The last 2 or 3 times I write it at night. I love these few hours when nobody and nothing distract me and I can think in silence. (p. 67)Larrotta (2008) kept dialogue journals with 17 Spanish-speaking adults in an intermediate ESL literacy class in a community literacy program in Central Texas. The students, who had, in other classes, been trained to write very controlled compositions and sentences, were at first nervous about writing in English. Some of them had rarely written more than two sentences on the same topic, and some had very little experience writing in their native language. She found, over the semester of writing together, that the students enjoyed the writing and considered it to be an effective learning tool; found it easy to introduce topics to write about (rather than relying on her to introduce topics); believed that it was a good way to bridge cultural and personal gaps and discuss cultural differences; and progressed in their writing, from simple sentences or lists of words to communicating ideas in extended texts. She concludes, “It was rewarding for me to see the students’ faces and observe their body language responses when I gave the journals back to them. ... I could see them reading my entries and making faces, laughing, looking for words in the dictionary, or asking questions about the message in the journal. This made me think that the dialogue journal was a useful and rewarding pedagogical tool for all of us” (p. 21). The article includes helpful guidelines for teachers using dialogue journal writing with this adult learner population.\n\nKim had a similar experience to that of Larotta. Writing with adult ESL learners in a community-based adult basic education program in the Southwestern United States, she found that while the adult learners engaged in meaningful dialogue and social interaction in writing, they had the opportunity to both share their own culture and to learn about a new culture. They also developed critical literacy, the opportunity to think critically about the social and cultural contexts of language and learning rather than simply mastering specific skills.\n\nVanett and Jurich, writing with adult learners in an ESL program, found that when adult learners gain confidence as writers, they become autonomous learners, are motivated to express themselves in writing, and can move into the types of writing expected in academic contexts, about many different topics and in many different genres and styles.\n\nDialogue journal writing has also been used successfully with adults with extremely limited literacy skills, who, at the beginning, may know the alphabet, be able to write their name, and, with difficulty, write a few sentences in their native language (Spanish) but have no writing ability in English. Spener in an 8-week course with adults at this level, after several rather unsuccessful attempts to interact in writing in ways that engaged the students, found that when he took a specific approach, genuine interaction in writing occurred, students were engaged, and their writing developed. His approach included interacting with the students orally first, so that he and the students knew each other; gradually moving toward independent writing, without initial oral interaction; ensuring that the written dialogue was at the student's levels, so they had the satisfaction of reading and writing successfully; and providing time for the writing to take place, so that the students don’t feel rushed.\n\nAdult education teachers work with a diverse group of learners, many of whom have many responsibilities in their lives in addition to coming to English class and may rotate into and out of classes frequently. As a result, the writing can be challenging. For example, Fallon worked with five basic literacy students at a learning center in rural south-central New York. All of the students found it difficult to read. Fallon conducted the dialogue journal writing in a computer lab, so that the students could become familiar with the technology. Written dialogue, on computers, seemed ideal for a number of reasons. However, after a year of engaging in this writing, Fallon found that he was not seeing the writing and reading development that he had hoped to see, and “our dialogue had become stagnant” (p. 139). After reviewing the theoretical discussions of learning and dialogue by Mikhail Bakhtin (1981) and Paulo Freire, Fallon concluded that the notion of authentic dialogue is critical to effective written interaction. This includes shared responsiveness, where both partners engage in asking and answering, the content focuses on generative themes that are of interest and importance to the learners, and the writing is connected with other written texts (including letters or newspaper articles). In summary, effective interaction with adult learners requires specific understanding, focus, and engagement by the teacher.\n\nOrem also points out possible challenges with writing with adult learners who, in this confidential context, may write about problems in the workplace (including harassment and documentation), at home (including domestic violence), and the community (including police profiling). They also may write about health issues and challenges in schools that their children attend. He points out that teachers need to be prepared to respond authentically and in confidence. He concludes by pointing out that this written interaction provides an excellent opportunity to engage in problem posing, which can lead to transformation of a community of learners. (See also Paulo Friere, \"Pedagogy of the Oppressed,\" 1970, updated 2007, for discussion of the importance of authentic dialogue.)\n\nDialogue journals have become an accepted practice at all levels of deaf education since 1982, when the Linguistics Research Laboratory, directed by Dr. William Stokoe, created the Gallaudet Dialogue Journal Research Project and brought Dr. Jana Staton to introduce the practice to teachers and instructors at Kendall Demonstration Elementary School (KDES), Model Secondary School for the Deaf, and Gallaudet University. From this initial project, the use of dialogue journals has become an accepted practice in English literacy education for deaf and hard of hearing students (hereinafter “deaf”). The Laurent Clerc National Deaf Education Center identifies dialogue journals as one of nine \"best practices\" for a comprehensive communication-based literacy approach for deaf students, including an online course with a DVD, I Like Dialogue Journals But...\n\nIn the 1980s, before the Internet and widespread email and texting made interactive, written communication accessible, profoundly deaf students were largely shut out of functional, meaningful, personally directed writing in school settings. Writing instruction was often largely a matter of rote copying from the blackboard. The tested reading and writing levels of many students has, for decades, seemed to plateau at upper elementary school (Gallaudet Research Brief, 2011), even for those entering college. A practice involving functional written conversations with a teacher in the school context was a marked addition to instructional practice.\n\nStaton and colleagues, studied the initial years of dialogue journal use between deaf students and teachers in elementary and secondary school and found three potential outcomes:\n\na) Initiation of students into functional use of written English through natural dialogue, providing well-formed and sufficient written input for profoundly deaf students, in line with optimal second language acquisition theory.\n\nb) Creation of understanding and rapport between teachers and students, which is especially important when the teacher has normal hearing and may not be proficient in ASL as a second language.\n\nc) Engagement of students in cognitively demanding interactions in written English that reflect their actual cognitive maturity.\n\nOther studies of dialogue journal use with deaf students at older ages, including in college, reviewed below, reflect similar results. These initial studies were observational in nature. No comparison groups without dialogue journal use were available to compare the impact on students’ written language development.\n\nBailes et al. found that elementary school students who were the least proficient in written English at the beginning of the academic year (mostly children from hearing families without American Sign Language (ASL) as a first language) caught up with more proficient ASL signers by the end of the year. They were able to introduce and elaborate on their own topics rather than just respond to the teacher's topics and used a wider range of language functions, even as they continued to be unwilling to participate in other class reading and writing activities. Bailes et al. analyzed the movement of students in two classes from fall to spring, from drawing and one-word responses to syntactic representation of ideas. They found that 33% of fall entries were drawing, with only 10% having recognizable English syntax. In the spring, 70% of entries had complete syntactic representation of meaning (“I went to see the zoo.”), and there were no drawings. All of the students were in an optimal, language-rich print environment at Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, but the dialogue journal use appears to have engaged them in written English use more effectively than did other classroom assignments.\n\nAt the time of the first dialogue journal use at Gallaudet University (1982-1984) and at the National Technical Institute for the Deaf (NTID) (1980-1990), many students entered post-secondary education with very rudimentary written language competence in English and often were not proficient in ASL. Studies of their dialogue journals focused on and provide evidence for the growth of communicative competence in English through interactive written conversations. Among the critical aspects of emerging writing competence were organization and coherence in writing at the discourse level, paragraph development, and increased length and comprehensibility of responses. Even in a brief time period (10 weeks), Albertini and Meath-Lang observed a marked growth in the use of pragmatic language functions needed for communication in social contexts, beyond simple description. Student entries by older students moved from short, careful, declarative sentences (called “Baby English” by students, according to Staton) toward the full range of language functions in English that are the mark of a competent English user – including questioning, complaining, predicting, promising, and threatening. This range of language functions that dialogue journals—rather uniquely—call forth reflects the cognitive interests and maturity of the writer. One study with younger deaf students (9–12 years old) found a modest increase in syntactic correctness and word usage over 24 weeks, but again, there was no comparison group receiving the same classroom instruction.\n\nIn Germany, an education professor introduced dialogue journals to her teacher candidates, and then studied her students‘ dialogues with their deaf elementary school students, students with special needs, and adults with limited literacy during their practica. Among the findings of this research were that children with speech and language delay learned to ask questions and pay attention to word choice and spelling; children with severe cognitive delay and little or no experience with writing began to respond to written prompts and label pictures; and adult with limited literacy, who had had unpleasant experiences with formal learning, expressed a desire to learn to read and write after using dialogue journals.\n\nMore recently, research on dialogue journal use in Myanmar with deaf adults noted that dialogue journal writing was an effective means of communicating one-on-one with students who had varying English language skills and normally communicated in a Myanmar sign language or spoken Burmese. Using entries on family life, school, and work, students were able to construct short autobiographies that could be shared with their classmates.\n\nStudents at Gallaudet University reported valuing most the relationship with their instructor and the quality of the instructor's comments -- “honesty,” “interest in my ideas,” and “trust.” Students valued the opportunity to read and to write back in authentic exchanges, which is particularly important for those for whom written English has not been a meaningful language experience. Staton also noted that students from classes in which the instructors had chosen to use dialogue journals with high frequency (2-3 times per week) were twice as likely to re-enroll in English classes the following year and had lower dropout rates. This correlation cannot be attributed solely to dialogue journal use, as no untreated group of students with the same teachers existed for comparison, and thus teacher selection effects cannot be ruled out.\n\nMeath-Lang pointed out that the interactive conversations create a truly student-centered language program, in which students have a voice in reconceiving and directing the curriculum itself and develop real control over their communication.\n\nThe third potential outcome of dialogue journal use, development of cognitive skills, is mediated through the interactional scaffolding provided by the teacher's responses to student ideas and topics. Here the importance of having a motivated, committed teacher as an interactional partner is clear. Teachers readily use higher-order cognitive skills involved in comprehending information, such as comparing, evaluating, giving examples, predicting, requesting clarification, and elaboration. The Gallaudet report, \"Conversations in Writing: A Guide for Using Dialogue Journals\" includes reflections from Gallaudet University faculty on the value of their dialogue journal use in upper-division classes for developing engagement and cognitively demanding exchanges in topic areas, geared to individual students’ actual cognitive maturity, rather than (often minimal) writing competence.\n\nAt Gallaudet, dialogue journal use with college preparatory students showed that with optimal conditions (a motivated teacher and frequent interactions [2-3 exchanges weekly]), student entries showed the development of important new skills in fluent written competence, including introducing their own topics, elaborating, responding to instructor questions, and expanding their range of language functions. Students began writing about the same topic across several turns and became collaborative, interested conversational partners in written English. Walworth described the value of dialogue journals for developing her college students’ advanced reading skills in a literature course, summarized in this Wikipedia article, in the section on Reading.\n\nKluwin and Kluwin and Kelly conducted a large-scale research project that paired deaf students with hearing peers as dialogue journal partners, seeking a more “realistic” practice by eliminating the time for the teacher to correspond with all students in a class. The writing ability of the hearing student partners was thought to provide the needed competence for maintaining a written conversation with middle and high school deaf students, whose reading and writing abilities in English were much lower. Kluwin's goal was to determine if dialogue journal use would improve deaf students’ written English skills, as measured by sentence complexity. He observed that growth of sentence complexity was a function of the length and “tone” (defined as expressions of mutual interest and engagement) of the relationship. However, the students involved were in different classes, were paired somewhat randomly, and had no other contact with each other apart from the journal writing. The interactions were, thus, limited by the lack of shared context, motivation to interact with each other, and active teacher involvement. Most of the 204 pairs did not correspond beyond 10-12 exchanges; only 10% of the pairs reached 22-40 exchanges.\n\nTrent Batson, a faculty member in the English Department at Gallaudet University, describes his entrée into the use of computers for dialogue journal writing with deaf university students (in the early 1980s), which he found to be transformational. He found that on the computer, he was much more authentic and engaged, the students were engaged, they had an ongoing record of their (increasingly longer and more complex) interactions, and they found themselves writing more freely and openly and revising what they wrote. Some of the students said that the dialogue journal was the best part of the course. Later, Batson took the concept of interactive writing into his entire class, establishing a computer network on which his English classes with deaf students were taught entirely in English. Before the computer network was in place, his English classes, like all classes at Gallaudet, were taught in ASL, and the writing that students did was only on assigned essays. Through the computer network, Batson made interactive uses of English available to deaf students.\n\nHere we see two very different adaptations of dialogue journal writing, with very different outcomes. It is clear that the role of an engaged, motivated teacher is critical to the journals’ success.\n\nOne of the many values of dialogue journals is the opportunity for teachers to provide informal counseling in a non-threatening, private context for individual students on their challenges and problems, whether about instructional or personal concerns. This use is closest to the goal and practice of Mrs. Reed, the original 6th grade teacher who had taken training with Dr. William Glasser on Reality Therapy for classroom teachers. The training led her to use the private written conversations to model the pragmatic, problem-solving perspective of Reality Therapy and to encourage students to think through issues and problems with her guidance. Of her writing with the students, she said, “I cannot think of any better way to learn so much about my students, myself, and my own teaching\".\n\nStudies of dialogue journal use with special needs students (reviewed in another sections of this Article) have focused on their role in helping students handle emotions, conflicts, and frustrations and build trust with adults as crucial goals of their educational development.\n\nWhen dialogue journals are used with adult students in second language settings, and also in teacher preparation, personal and family concerns tend to dominate the topics introduced by both instructor and students, such as the trauma of migration for new immigrants. Anderson, Nelson, Richardson, Webb, & Young found some positive outcomes of dialogue journal use for middle school students at risk of academic failure, social isolation, and dropping out of school. A unique use of dialogue journals with adolescents in an HIV/STI prevention program found that the individualized written interactions helped assess participants' understanding and internalization of information in a way that addressed unsafe behavior, built trust, and engaged those who were less likely to participate in class discussions.\n\nStudents with special needs struggle not only with writing and reading acquisition, but with social and emotional development and confidence about their writing. Dialogue journals as an individualized means of private, mutual communication can provide students with support in handling emotions, conflicts, and frustrations. For students with limited writing confidence and proficiency, the opportunity to express ideas and thoughts with teacher elaboration and modeling, and without correction, has been shown to increase their time on task, writing length, and writing quality. Using a single-subject baseline and intervention design, Anderson, Nelson, Richardson, Webb, and Young explored the value of dialogue journals in developing a more supportive student-teacher relationship with emotionally and behaviorally challenged middle school students.\n\nA case study of dialogue journal writing with a young gifted child points out that the learning styles of gifted children (rapid development, open exploration, self-motivated, dislike of rote drills) are uniquely compatible with the dynamic communication that is possible in dialogue journals. Armstrong studied the importance of teachers learning to use a wide variety of language functions to create shared mutuality and engage gifted students in written communication.\n\nA number of publications have outlined clearly instructional strategies that teachers can use to implement dialogue journal interaction effectively, both in writing and orally. The strategies that teachers use depend on the age of the students, their proficiency in the language of the interaction, and the purposes of the class and the interaction. The teacher's strategies may also be designed to affect the students’ language use and learning.\n\nInstructional strategies include establishing a culture of interactive writing by introducing the idea to students (continuous writing throughout the semester or school year); emphasizing that this is authentic communication and not for the purposes of correction or a grade; and describing the form that the interaction will take place (e.g., in a notebook, on a computer, through email), how often the interactions will take place (e.g., each day, once a week), and the topics or themes that will be the focus (if there are specific topics or themes).\n\nDialogue journal writing has become an important component of professional development for teachers in both pre-service teacher training programs at universities and in in-service workshops and coaching. It might take place between the professor and a class of prospective teachers in a teacher preparation program; between prospective or new teachers and experienced teachers they are working with, as a mentoring and coaching opportunity; or between prospective and practicing teachers. Those who use and study these approaches have found that these professional conversations promote reflection on oneself as a teacher and between teachers as they reflect on their practice. Some research focuses on the types of responses and interactions that are effective for promoting teacher learning. With use of the Internet, these interactions can take place among educators around the world.\n\nWhile the use of dialogue journal writing in educational settings originated in the United States, it is used around the world to promote writing and critical thinking. It is most frequently used to promote learning of English as a second language. Countries using and publishing about dialogue journal writing include Canada, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Iran, Jordan, Korea, Malaysia, South Africa, and Taiwan.\n\nResearch and ethnographic observations have stressed the value of dialogue journals for increasing student engagement and motivation in the classroom. In that context, a recent meta-analysis is relevant. The analysis found that student-teacher relationships (positive and negative) had a strong association with student engagement and a small to medium effect size associated with student achievement. Thus, as dialogue journals are known and valued for creating and improving teacher-student relationships, their positive value in increasing engagement, and therefore achievement (even modestly), may be assumed.\n\nTo support and verify such assumptions about dialogue journal writing, studies will need to provide for random assignment of students to either dialogue journal writing or a control condition for a sufficient length of time, ideally within the same instructional context. Where this is not possible, carefully designed studies of individual students can yield strong research evidence. For example, Regan, Mastropiere, and Scruggs conducted a study of special-needs students using a multiple baseline design to measure outcomes of a dialogue journal intervention compared to baseline data. Studies following this design can provide a model of dialogue journal research that addresses issues of selection and maturation.\n\n"}
{"id": "21153580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21153580", "title": "Don Winslow of the Navy (comic strip)", "text": "Don Winslow of the Navy (comic strip)\n\nDon Winslow of the Navy was an American comic strip created by Frank Victor Martinek and distributed mostly by the Bell Syndicate from 1934 to 1955. The title character was a spy-chasing lieutenant commander in Naval intelligence. The comic strip led to a radio adventure serial that began in 1937, as well as film serials that began in 1942. Original comic book stories also appeared in Fawcett Comics titles starting in 1943.\n\nThe idea for \"Don Winslow\" was conceived by Lieutenant Commander Frank V. Martinek, USNR, himself a storied veteran of World War I Naval intelligence, after Admiral Wat T. Cluverius complained to him about the difficulties of recruiting in the Midwest. Ruminating on the challenge, Martinek decided that a comic strip that focused on Naval tradition and courage would educate and fascinate America’s youth. He had previously used the character Don Winslow in some novels he wrote, so he had the main concept readymade. Colonel Frank Knox, later Secretary of the Navy helped sell the idea to the Bell Syndicate.\n\nMartinek brought in Naval Lieutenant Leon Beroth as art director and Carl Hammond to handle layouts and research. Martinek articulated this central principle: \"Since \"Don Winslow of the Navy\" is approved by the Navy Department, I cannot allow him to do anything that is contrary to the ideals, traditions or motives of the Navy.\"\n\nThe strip debuted on March 5, 1934. A Sunday page was added in 1935. Martinek supervised the daily feature’s \"general tone and direction\", sending the typewritten continuity to Beroth every week for illustrations. From 1934 to 1952, Beroth was the leading artist on the feature. Ken Ernst (later famous for \"Mary Worth\"), assisted or ghosted the art between 1940 and 1942. With Don leaving his fiancée behind in December 1941 to go fight the Japanese, the World War II period saw the height of \"Don Winslow\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s popularity.\n\nThe Bell-McClure Syndicate dropped the strip in 1953, and it was picked up by General Features, where it was illustrated by John Jordan. The strip finally came to a close on Saturday, July 30, 1955.\n\nDon's best pal throughout the run of the series was the somewhat chubby Red Pennington. His commanding officer for a time was Admiral Colby. Mercedes Colby, the Admiral's daughter, was Don's romantic interest for the first half of the narrative, from 1935 to 1946. Mercedes was a war nurse and in a rare instance of realism returned to the states in 1944 suffering from \"war trauma.\" Jane Steele, a captain in the WAVES joins Don and many an adventure beginning in 1951 and Mary Winlsow joins her brother in the good fight in 1952.\n\nThe Scorpion vexed Don Winslow from the very beginning of the comic strip, often behind the scenes and unseen for long periods of time. That said, he was a memorable villain, head of a global, extra-national organization of espionage and sabotage called Scorpia. Time in Tibet allowed him to develop a variety of abilities, including on at least two occasions having his spirit leave his body and permanently possess another new one. He had a daughter, Madame Mask (1937, 1950), who was just as evil but not quite as persistent. The Scorpion favored beautiful associates, including Lotus (1934–36, 1941, 1943) who later reformed, Tasmia (1936–37, 1940, 1946), and Asmara (1940–42). Agents of Scorpia in the 1930s included the Crocodile (1936), Dr. Thor (1937), and the Duchess (1937); in the 1940s: The Duster (1948), the Polecat (1948), and Cold Shivers (1949); and in the 1950s: Half-Dome (1951), Eight Ball (1951), and the Red Vulture (1952). Efforts to create new menaces other than Scorpia were generally short-lived, but included Owl-Eyes (1939, 1949), and clandestine organizations such as The Panther's Claw (1943) and the Clenched Fist (1944).\n\nAlthough created primarily as a Navy recruitment and propaganda tool, the strip received high marks from Coulton Waugh for “excellent suspense, and ingenious, spine-joggling situations.” Ron Goulart credits \"Don Winslow\" with \"intrigue, spychasing, beautiful women, and villains with names like Dr. Centaur, the Dwarf, and the Scorpion.\"\n\nFollowing up on the success of the comic strip, reprints of the feature in comic book form appeared from various publishers. Merwil, a small publisher, offered reprints in 1937. In 1938 Dell Comics began reprinting the newspaper strips in \"Crackajack Funnies\" alongside other established newspaper features. When that title ceased publication in 1942, \"Don Winslow\" reprints begin running in \"Popular Comics\", again with other strip favorites of the era. In addition, Dell also had Don Winslow in two issues of their \"Four Color Comics\", a series which spotlighted a different character with nearly every issue. Dell's 1938 one-shot, \"Famous Feature Stories\", contained more \"Winslow\".\n\nFawcett Comics released the \"Don Winslow of the Navy\" comic book with original stories beginning in 1943. The cover of the first issue shows Captain Marvel introducing the character to the readers. This series lasted until 1948, then was revived in 1951, for a total to 69 issues. Winslow was revived again for a final brief time starting in 1955 in reprints published by Charlton Comics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17561829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17561829", "title": "Ebor Lectures", "text": "Ebor Lectures\n\nThe Ebor Lectures are an annual series of lectures in the United Kingdom which aim to draw together theology and public life, considering the role of faith in \"public issues such as politics, economics, contemporary culture and spirituality.\" The first series began in 2006–2007 with the theme of \"Liberating Text? Revelation, Identity and Public Life\" and transcripts for this series have been published as a book entitled \"Liberating Texts?\". The 2007–2008 series had the theme of \"Globalisation and Identity\".\n\nThe Ebor Lectures are jointly organised by the following groups and are held either at York Minster or at York St John University in York, northern England.\n\n\n\n\n\n2017 Series \n\nRuth Hunt, Chief Executive of Stonewall, \"Here I am Lord\". The Place for LGBT people in the modern Christian Movement, 22 February 2017; York Minster, 7.00pm\n\nDr Timothy Winter, Shaykh Lecturer in Islamic Studies at the University of Cambridge, Religion, Radicalism and Contemporary Politics, 29 March 2017; Temple Hall, York St John University, 7.00pm\n\nTim Shipman, Political Editor of The Sunday Times, The Journey through Brexit, 26 April; York Minster, 7.00pm\n\nDr Casey Strine, Lecturer in Eastern History and Literature at University of Sheffield, What refugees can teach others about the Bible, 24 May 2017; Temple Hall, York St John University, 7.00pm\n\nProfessor Eamon Duffy, FBA, Emeritus Professor of the History of Christianity, Writing the Reformation: Fiction and Faction, 5 July 2017; York Minster, 7.00pm\n\nRuth Gledhill, Editor of Christian Today; former Religious Affairs Correspondent for The Times, 'This Virtual Pilgrimage: How our temporal journey is leading us in a new reformation', 11 October 2017; Temple Hall, York St John University, 7.00pm\n"}
{"id": "18103027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103027", "title": "Education in the Central African Republic", "text": "Education in the Central African Republic\n\nPublic education in the Central African Republic is free, and education is compulsory from ages 6 to 14. AIDS-related deaths have taken a heavy toll on teachers, contributing to the closure of more than 100 primary schools between 1996 and 1998. \n\nIn 1991, the gross primary enrollment rate was 56.9 percent. In 2000, the net primary enrollment rate for children between the ages of 6 and 11 was 43 percent. Primary school attendance rates were unavailable for the Central African Republic as of 2001. While enrollment rates indicate a level of commitment to education, they do not always reflect children’s participation in school.\n\nThere is not equal access to primary school for girls. For the first year of school, 65% of girls are enrolled in primary school. This dropped to 23% of girls after six years of primary school in 2007. Many girls drop out of school in their early teens due to societal pressures to marry and have children.\n\nThe educational system’s meager budget and salary arrears have resulted in a shortage of teachers and an increase in the number of street children. The percentage of the national budget allocated to education, which traditionally stood at less than 12 percent, increased to 18 percent in the late 1990s. According to the government, it will further increase to 25 percent by 2010. \n\nThere were 800,000 students that were affected by the violence that broke out in December 2012 due to the Séléka rebels. Many teachers who sought refuge in others areas had yet to return to the country.\n\nThe literacy rate for men between the ages of 15-24 is 72.3 percent, for the same age group for women has a literacy rate of 59.1 percent.\n"}
{"id": "34002758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34002758", "title": "Edward Barbeau", "text": "Edward Barbeau\n\nEdward (Ed) Barbeau is a Canadian mathematician and a Canadian Mathematical Educator. He is a Professor Emeritus at the University of Toronto Department of Mathematics.\n\nHe has published a number of books directed to students of mathematics and their teachers, including \"Polynomials\", \"Power Play\", \"Mathematical Fallacies, Flaws and Flimflam\" and \"After Math\", coauthored \"Five hundred mathematical challenges\" (with Murray S. Klamkin and W. O. J. Moser). He also wrote \"Pell's Equation\" and \nwas one of editors of \"Challenging Mathematics In and Beyond the Classroom\".\n\nEd Barbeau has frequently given talks and workshops at professional meetings and in schools, has worked with high school students preparing for Olympiad competitions and has on five occasions accompanied the Canadian team to the International Mathematical Olympiad. He is currently associate editor in charge of the Fallacies, Flaws and Flimflam column in the College Mathematics Journal and education editor for the Notes of the Canadian Mathematical Society. He is a former chairman of the Education Committee of the Canadian Mathematical Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24284387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24284387", "title": "Financial Literacy and Education Commission", "text": "Financial Literacy and Education Commission\n\nThe Financial Literacy and Education Commission (the Commission) was established under Title V, the Financial Literacy and Education Improvement Act which was part of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACT) Act of 2003, to improve financial literacy and education of persons in the United States. The FACT Act named the Secretary of the Treasury as head of the Commission and required 19 other federal agencies and bureaus to participate in the Commission. The Commission coordinates the financial education efforts throughout the federal government, supports the promotion of financial literacy by the private sector while also encouraging the synchronization of efforts between the public and private sectors.\n\n\"Taking Ownership of the Future: The National Strategy for Financial Literacy\" is a comprehensive blueprint for improving financial literacy in America, published by the Commission. This national strategy covers 13 areas of financial education and contains 26 specific calls to action.\n\nMember departments and agencies include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12856300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12856300", "title": "Flemish Union of Students", "text": "Flemish Union of Students\n\nThe Flemish Union of Students (; VVS) is an organisation that represents the students of Flanders, the Dutch-speaking part of Belgium.\n\nVVS can only represent the students in the Flemish community of Belgium due to the historically grown federalisation of the country. For the French Community of Belgium there is a separate student union (FEF). VVS is a member of the European Students' Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "29475585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29475585", "title": "Florence McClung", "text": "Florence McClung\n\nFlorence McClung (July 12, 1894 – 1992) was an American painter, printmaker, and art teacher. She was the daughter of Charles W. and Minerva (McCoy) White and was born at St. Louis, Missouri, on July 12, 1894. She moved to Dallas in 1899 and lived there until her death. She was related to the Dallas Nine, an influential group of Dallas-based artists.\n\nAfter having studied for a career as a concert pianist, McClung studied pastel with Frank Reaugh in the early 1920s and then learnt from Olin Travis and Alexandre Hogue.\nShe painted for periods of time in Taos between 1928 and 1932, thus joining a circle that included Hogue, Mabel Dodge Luhan and Tony Luhan and the Taos Society of Artists.\n\nMcClung became an active member of the Printmakers Guild (renamed Texas Printmakers in 1952) in the 1940s and 50s. This guild was a small group of Texas Women artists founded as a consequence of the exclusion of women from the Lone Star Printmakers of Dallas, headed by Hogue and Bywaters. In 1945, she was elected the Director of Texas Fine Arts Association, now known as the Texas Visual Arts Association. In 1946, she was elected to the board of directors of the Southern States Art League.\n\nMcClung's later works were mostly serigraphs. As she approached her early sixties in the mid-1950s she began to lose her sight and decreased her productivity. She eventually became blind in her right eye following an operation in 1986. Another possible explanation of her decrease in activity was that it became difficult for her to \"reconcile her love for rural countryside with the growing urban character of Dallas\".\n\nHer art always remained deeply linked to the Texas identity: \"Underlying the work and reflected in all its manifestations is a clearly defined purpose: to make a vivid, permanent record of those phases of southwestern life which even now are disappearing\". Before she died, McClung gave several of her paintings to the Dallas Museum of Art.\n"}
{"id": "34844300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34844300", "title": "Fondazione Musei Civici di Venezia", "text": "Fondazione Musei Civici di Venezia\n\nFounded following the resolution passed by the Municipal Council Board of Venice on March 3rd 2008, the Fondazione Musei Civici di Venezia (MUVE) manages and develops the cultural and artistic heritage of Venice and islands. Formed as a participatory foundation, it has only one founding member, the City of Venice.\n\n"}
{"id": "14384856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14384856", "title": "Fourth International Conference on Environmental Education", "text": "Fourth International Conference on Environmental Education\n\nThe Tbilisiplus30 or the Fourth International Conference on Environmental Education was held at the Centre for Environment Education, Ahmedabad, India between November 24, 2007 and November 28, 2007.\n\nThe conference was the fourth in the series of Conferences on environmental education held since the first international conference in Tbilisi (former USSR). The second conference was organised in 1977 in Moscow; and the third conference was held in Thessaloniki in 1997. The United Nations has declared the decade 2005 to 2014 as the \"Decade of Education for Sustainable Development\" (DESD). This conference underlined the key role of education in achieving sustainable development. The participants and delegates from countries across the globe came together to bridge the gap between environmental education and Education for Sustainable Development. They examined the development of environmental education since the first conference, thirty years ago, and set a global agenda for the DESD. This will be a platform for sharing practices and ideas on initiatives in environmental education throughout the world.\n\nThere was a significant amount of participation in workshops on topics including \"Education for Sustainable Development\" and \"Teacher Education,\" research for DESD, \"DESD Monitoring and Evaluation,\" \"ESD and Media,\" \"Man and Biosphere Reserves\" and \"World Heritage Sites\" as learning sites for environmental development, \"Floods and Disaster Reduction\" and \"Education for Sustainable Consumption\".\n"}
{"id": "47751830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751830", "title": "Green Dot Bystander Intervention", "text": "Green Dot Bystander Intervention\n\nGreen Dot Bystander Intervention is a bystander education approach that aims to prevent violence with the help of bystanders. It is built on the premise that violence can be measurably and systematically reduced within a community. Bystander intervention as a way of violence prevention programs are becoming popular within society. Its mission is to reduce power based-violence by being a proactive bystander and a reactive bystander.\n\nThe Green Dot Bystander Intervention Program was founded by Dr. Dorothy Edwards. The program trains people about sexual assault and domestic violence on college campuses, primary and secondary schools, and communities. It develops and offers training for sexual assault and domestic violence. The method teaches students to intervene by using the 3 D's: Direct, Delegating the responsibility to others, and creating a Distraction to defuse a potentially dangerous situation. As described by Green Dot an example of this is in a situation at a party, intervening could mean that instead of calling out an inebriated student, an individual can create a distraction by \"accidentally\" spilling their drink on a potential aggressor.\n\nDr. Dorothy Edwards is the founder of the Green Dot Bystander Intervention program. Prior to creating the program Dorothy Edwards worked as the University of Kentucky's Violence Intervention and Prevention Director where she discovered that individuals were not sure how to respond when witnessing a potential sexual assault. In her first year of running the program she trained 10 individuals, but by the time she left the University of Kentucky she was training 3,500 students and volunteers. The initiative led by Dr. Edwards was supported by a new focus on bystanders in The White House. Green Dot, Bringing in the Bystander, and Coaching Boys Into Men are preventative bystander programs that have begun to make cultural changes.\n\nTitle IX of the 1972 Education Amendment is a tool meant to combat campus violence. The law requires colleges and universities to fight gender-based violence, harassment, and respond to the needs of survivors promoting equal educational access.\n\nSexual violence in schools and on campuses is a pressing civil rights issue. According to the National Women's Law Center students who suffer from sexual assault and harassment are deprived the liberty of equal education. A majority of sexual assaults involving college students also involve drugs and alcohol. A female or male who is incapacitated due to drugs and alcohol is legally incapable of giving consent and someone who has sex with an incapacitated person can be prosecuted for rape.\n\nThe goal of Green Dot is to implement a bystander intervention strategy that prevents and reduces power-based personal violence. Power-based violence includes: sexual violence, domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, child abuse, elder abuse, and bullying. The curriculum is created from the concepts and lessons learned through research and theory across disciplines including: violence against women, diffusion of innovation, public health, social networking, psychology, bystander dynamics, perpetration, and marketing/advertising.\n\nA Green Dot is a behavior, choice, or action that promotes safety for everyone. It communicates intolerance for sexual violence, dating violence, and stalking. The goal is to promote safety on college campuses.\n\nGreen Dot develops programs, strategies, curriculum, and training courses designed to address power-based personal violence across environments. Training strategies include: strategic planning, bystander mobilization, communication, and coalition building. The program provides training courses for leadership and professionals that focus on the core areas necessary for successful implementation of the program.\n\nThe Green Dot bystander program uses four training modules to educate bystanders on their impact. \n\nThe heart of the Green Dot Bystander Intervention program are the 3 D's: direct, distract, and delegate. Direct interaction with the potential perpetrator or victim can be used to address concern. Through Distraction a bystander can create a diversion to diffuse the potentially problematic situation. Lastly, through delegation a bystander can ask for someone else to help intervene in the situation. The 3 D's work in situations of high risk to act as reactive Green Dots.\n\nExamples of proactive Green Dots are creating social media campaigns, checking-in with friends, promoting awareness, and hosting green dot sports games.\n\nExamples of reactive Green Dots include: \"directly\" confronting a situation, \"distracting\" by changing the conversation and the energy of the interaction or by distracting the individuals, or \"delegating\" by finding someone who will be more successful in fixing the problem (bar tender, other friends, police offer, etc.)\n\nAnn Coker at the University of Kentucky's Center for Research on Violence Against Women (CRVAW) led a study pertaining to the effectiveness at Green Dots' reduction of sexual violence. In the study, CRVAW found a greater than 50% reduction in the self-reported frequency of sexual violence perpetration by students at schools that received Green Dot training. The CRVAW study also found a 40% reduction in self-reported frequency of total violence perpetration including sexual violence, sexual harassment, stalking, and dating violence. Ann Coker, and the CRVAW team identify violence prevention as a public health priority.\n\nA recent study of 2,504 college undergraduate students between 18 and 24 looked at the impact of bystander intervention on college campuses. The study found that 46% of the students surveyed had heard a Green Dot speech on their college campus. Out of the sample size surveyed, only 14% had received active bystander training in the past two years. Students trained in Green Dot bystander intervention reported engaging in significantly more bystander behaviors and observing more self-reported active bystander behaviors compared to non-trained students. Those receiving bystander intervention training appeared to report more active bystander behaviors than those simply hearing a Green Dot speech, and both intervention groups reported more observed and active bystander behaviors than non-exposed students.\n"}
{"id": "27800664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27800664", "title": "Guillaume Couture (musician)", "text": "Guillaume Couture (musician)\n\nGuillaume Couture (23 October 1851 – 15 January 1915) was a Canadian choir conductor, composer, music critic, and music educator. Although he never pursued a performance career, he is particularly remembered for his work as a voice teacher, having taught many notable Canadian singers. He is the grandfather of composer Jean Papineau-Couture.\n\nBorn in Montreal, Couture was choirmaster at Saint-Jacques Cathedral before studying at the Conservatoire de Paris with Romain Bussine and Théodore Dubois from 1873 to 1875. His \"Rêverie\", opus 2 (notably the only Canadian orchestral work published before 1900) was premiered in Paris in 1875 in a concert that also included original works by Henri Duparc, Gabriel Fauré, and César Franck. That same year he returned to his native city where he began teaching privately and writing as a music critic for \"La Minerve\". He continued to return periodically to France for further studies with Bussine through 1887.\n\nIn early 1876 Couture returned to Paris to assume the post of choirmaster at the Basilica of St. Clotilde, Paris. César Franck was notably the organist at the cathedral at that time. He left there in late 1877 for Montreal where he took up teaching again, both privately and for religious institutions like the Congregation of Notre Dame and the Institute of the Sisters of the Holy Names of Jesus and Mary. He taught at the High School for Girls, Montreal, from 1885 to 1914.\n\nAmong his notable students were Joseph-Arsène Brassard, Jean-Noël Charbonneau, Guillaume Dupuis, Achille Fortier, Henri Gagnon, Charles Labelle, Arthur Laurendeau, Édouard LeBel, Frédéric Pelletier, Arthur Plamondon, Céline Marier, Léo-Pol Morin, Rodolphe Plamondon, Caroline Racicot, Roy Royal, and Louis Verschelden.\n\nCouture continued to work as a music critic, writing for such papers as \"Revue de Montréal\", \"La Patrie\", and \"Montreal Star\". In 1880 he became conductor of the Montreal Philharmonic Society which he led until it disbanded in 1899. In 1894 he founded the Montréal Symphony Orchestra (no relation to the current orchestra), which he directed through 1896. He composed his most significant work, the oratorio \"Jean le Précurseur\", from 1907 to 1909. He died in Montreal in 1915 at the age of 63.\n"}
{"id": "12290393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12290393", "title": "Kathleen S. Dunn", "text": "Kathleen S. Dunn\n\nKathleen S. Dunn is a certified dialect coach, accent reduction coach, voice and body movement instructor, and professional actress.\n\nPrior to Dialect Coaching, Dunn assisted Casting Director Mali Finn on numerous feature films, as well as apprenticing in the capacity of screen test reader. is a professional TV/film/stage actress starting in 1987. Her credits include leading roles in the films Cold Intelligence with Michael Denney, The JoyRiders with Martin Landau and Fish, a Project Greenlight film and a short film Tilly. Theatre companies in Los Angeles where Kathy Dunn performed since 1987 include: The Los Angeles Women's Shakespeare Company; Evidence Room; Odyssey Theatre; Workshop 360 and Los Angeles Theatre Company. Her stage performances have won her numerous awards in the Los Angeles Area. Actors such as Robert Easton (past) and Kathleen S Dunn (current) have had their career start in Dialect Coaching & Accent Reduction at the School of Theatre at the University of Southern California (USC).\n\nKathleen Dunn is most known for \"uniting voice, body and imagination\" in coaching and her Dialects Theory of providing the \"Ears of the Actor\".\n\nDunn's approach as a Dialect Coach considers all regional and non-regional accent needs as well as the integration of Voice/Body Movement and Lessac theories into Accent and Dialect training.\n\n"}
{"id": "18306632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18306632", "title": "Kathy Smith (filmmaker)", "text": "Kathy Smith (filmmaker)\n\nKathy Smith (born 1963) is an Australian independent filmmaker, painter, photographer, and Associate Professor with the John C. Hench Division of Animation and Digital Arts (DADA), USC School of Cinematic Arts. She has been the Chair of DADA since 2004.\n\nSmith was born in Taree, New South Wales. She graduated from the Sydney College of the Arts in 1985. Shortly after graduation, she was awarded the Sydney Morning Herald Traveling Arts Scholarship for Painting. She received the Desiderius Orban Art Award in 1986. Her films have screened \"internationally, including SIGGRAPH N-Space Art Gallery, Sundance Film Festival, New York Digital Salon, Hiroshima, Anima Mundi, and Ottawa International Animation Festivals [... she] has exhibited internationally at group and solo exhibitions such as Institute of Contemporary Art, London, Conservatorio di Santa Maria degli Angeli, Florence, Italy, and the Australian National Gallery, Canberra.\" Her body of work includes the award-winning animated film, \"Indefinable Moods\" (2001).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31487305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31487305", "title": "Kerstin Thompson", "text": "Kerstin Thompson\n\nKerstin Thompson is an Australian architect, born in Melbourne in 1965. She is the principal of Kerstin Thompson Architects (KTA), a Melbourne-based architecture, landscape and urban design practice with projects in Australia and New Zealand. She is also Professor of Design at the School of Architecture at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, and Adjunct Professor at RMIT University and Monash University.\n\nThompson earned her bachelor's degree in architecture at RMIT in 1989. During her undergraduate studies she worked in the Milan-based studio of Matteo Thun (1987) and the Melbourne-based practice of Robinson Chen (1988–89). From 1990 to 1994 she was a lecturer in architectural design at RMIT and she completed her Master's in Architecture there in 1998.\n\nSince 1994 she has run her own architectural firm, Kerstin Thompson Architects (KTA). She has won a number of awards for her houses. In 2012 Big Hill won the Houses Award for New House over 200m and in 2014 House at Hanging Rock won the Robin Boyd Award for Residential Architecture – Houses (New); she is one of the first women to win this award.\n\nThompson was a member of the Federal Government's BEIIC Advisory Committee. She was the Creative Director for the 2005 RAIA National Conference and one of the Creative Directors for Australia's 2008 Venice Biennale exhibition, Abundant Australia.\n\nShe is a panel member of the Victorian Design Review Panel (VDRP) with the Office of the Victorian Government Architect.\n\n"}
{"id": "858464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=858464", "title": "Key Stage", "text": "Key Stage\n\nA Key Stage is a stage of the state education system in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and the British Territory of Gibraltar setting the educational knowledge expected of students at various ages. The term is also used in some other at\nautonomous territories such as Hong Kong and countries such as Australia (some states) although the ages at which each Key Stage applies differ from England.\n\nThe stages are as follows:\nThe National Curriculum sets out targets to be achieved in various subject areas at each of the Key Stages.\n\nThe Key Stages were first defined in the 1988 Education Reform Act to accompany the first introduction of the National Curriculum. The precise definition of each of the main 4 Key Stages is age-related, incorporating all pupils of a particular age at the beginning of each academic year. The Key Stages were designed to fit with the most prevalent structures which had already grown up in the education system over the previous 100 years of development.\n\nPrior to the four main key stages, pupils attend a Foundation Stage, the latter part of which is compulsory.\n\nKey Stage 1 fits broadly with the first stage of primary education, often known as infant schools. This break had existed for some time, being acknowledged in the 1931 Hadow Report as 'axiomatic' by as early as 1870.\n\nKey Stage 2 fits the later stage of primary education, often known as junior schools. Again, described by Sir William Henry Hadow, this took pupils up to the standardised break at age 11.\n\nSecondary education was split between Key Stage 3 & Key Stage 4 at age 14, to align with long-existing two-year examination courses at GCSE level.\n\nKey Stages 0 and 5 have no legal definition, and are merely used as indicators to complement the defined Key Stages.\n"}
{"id": "45614118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45614118", "title": "Laura Harding", "text": "Laura Harding\n\nLaura Harding is an architectural practitioner and critic based in Sydney. Harding works across architecture and urban design, with a particular focus on the public realm. She is also an architectural critic and an active participant in the public culture of architecture. Harding regularly contributes to architectural education as a visiting critic at the University of New South Wales and the University of Sydney. From 2006 to 2012 she taught with Glenn Murcutt in the third year design program at the University of New South Wales.\n\nHarding was born in Sydney in 1975. She studied architecture at the University of Sydney, graduating with a Bachelor of Science (Architecture) in 1995 and a Bachelor of Architecture in 1998. She has worked at the Sydney-based practice Hill Thalis Architecture + Urban Projects for eighteen years, having joined the practice in 1996 as a student.\n\nHarding began writing architectural criticism in 2004, first for \"Architecture Australia\", the journal of record of Australian architecture, and subsequently for a range of professional publications and mainstream media outlets. She was appointed a contributing editor to \"Architecture Australia\" in 2005, a position she continues to hold. Harding has had criticism published in The Guardian and is a regular contributor to The Saturday Paper.\n\nHarding was guest editor, alongside Philip Thalis, of a special issue of \"Architecture Australia\" on Urban Housing (\"Architecture Australia\" (May 2014).\n\nHarding's project work crosses architecture and urban design, with a particular focus on multi-residential and urban projects. Her work includes the award-winning project Substation No. 175, which converted a remnant substation building in Surry Hills into a 'tiny urban tower'. This intensified the use of the tiny site and aimed to show that \"no lot need be too small to be used effectively\".\n\nHarding was project urban designer on the winning entry in the international design competition for East Darling Harbour (Barangaroo) by Hill Thalis Architecture + Urban Projects, Paul Berkemeier Architects and Jane Irwin Landscape Architecture. This proposed a new urban street pattern, waterfront park and urban grain for the Millers Point wharves. The scheme did not go ahead.\n\nCrystal Housing – adaptive reuse located in the city's inner west, which accommodates seven diverse affordable housing units within the old shell and structure of a modest factory building.\n\nLennox Bridge Portals – a project for making key urban connections that reveals the complex archaeology and layering formerly hidden within the State-Heritage-listed Lennox Bridge in Parramatta. Scheduled for completion 2015.\n\nStudios 54 – a commercial and residential building in Surry Hills that explores what one shop and four apartments can add to the life and vitality of the city. Completed 2014. This won the Aaron Bolot Award for Multiresidential Housing at the 2015 NSW Chapter Australian Institute of Architects Awards.\n\nMountainside House – a holiday house on a beautiful South-Coast mountainside that subtly orients itself to a landscape elements through a series of multiple long and cross axes that can be opened and closed within the building. Completed 2013.\n\nHorizon House – a coastal holiday house\n\nLittle Bay Master Plan – a 13 hectare residential subdivision on the former UNSW site adjacent the Prince Henry Hospital. The plan reconnects the site to the surrounding urban area,preserving important site features in a system of memorable parks and landscaped spaces. Scheduled for completion 2015\n\nGreen Square Library competition – a proposal for the Green Square Library, undertaken with Hill Thalis and McGregor Westlake architects.\n\nLaura was a juror for the Public Architecture and Urban Design categories of the NSW Chapter Australian Institute of Architects Awards in 2011.\n\nAdrian Ashton Award for Architectural Criticism, 2013, Australian Institute of Architects NSW Awards.\n\nCommendation, Australian Institute of Architects NSW Chapter Award for Multi-residential Architecture (2005) NSW Master Builders Award for Adaptive Reuse (2005)\n"}
{"id": "38992215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38992215", "title": "List of archives in Cuba", "text": "List of archives in Cuba\n\nThis is list of archives in Cuba.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40522173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40522173", "title": "List of language self-study programs", "text": "List of language self-study programs\n\nSelf-study programs allow learning without having a teacher present, \nand the courses can supplement or replace classroom instruction. \nUniversities use self-study programs for less-commonly taught languages, where having professors is not feasible. \nSelf-study programs are available on paper, audio files, video files, computers, or any combination. \n\nThis list is limited to programs which teach four or more languages. There are many others which teach one language.\n\nAlphabetical Lists of Languages show the courses available to learn each language, at Lang1234, Martindale, Omniglot, Rüdiger Köppe, and UCLA. For the thousands of languages not listed on those sites, for which no course exists, Global Recordings Network has recorded a standard set of Bible stories in 6,000 languages. With effort, learners can study any language by comparing its recordings to the same story in a language they know.\n\nThe list below shows the number of languages taught by each program, the name of the program, and the number of different languages used for instruction. Multiple languages of instruction may be available for some but not all courses. For example Reise Know-How uses 6 languages to teach German, but only German to teach the other languages. On the other hand Eurotalk, Pronunciator and 50Languages use all languages to teach all the other languages. \n"}
{"id": "57018575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57018575", "title": "List of most visited museums by region", "text": "List of most visited museums by region\n\nThis is a list of the top twenty most visited museums in each region, based upon the annual reports of museum attendance from the Art Newspaper Review and the Museum Index of the Themed Entertainment Association. Museums not on either list are not included. \n Includes visitors recorded at all three Metropolitan Museum of Art sites, such as the 505,590 visitors recorded at the Met Breuer.<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "39488723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39488723", "title": "List of subject rankings of Hong Kong tertiary institutions", "text": "List of subject rankings of Hong Kong tertiary institutions\n\nThis page lists various subject rankings, including QS University Subject Rankings, U.S. News & World Report, Times Higher Education World University Subjects Rankings and Academic Ranking of World Universities, of universities and colleges in Hong Kong. They adopt different ranking methodologies.\n"}
{"id": "45574570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45574570", "title": "MOOC Arab World", "text": "MOOC Arab World\n\nOn May November 2013, the Queen Rania Foundation for Education and Development (QRF) of Jordan, established by Queen Rania al Abdallah of Jordan, launched a non-profit massive open online course (MOOC) portal, Edraak, for the promotion of knowledge in the Arab world. Edraak uses the open-source edX platform by edX, which also used by two global MOOC providers: XuetangX in China and the French Université Numérique.\n\nQRF contracted several regional and international scholars from prestigious universities to design and deliver the courses. Courses typically ran between 3 – 8 weeks. Among the pioneers that joined forces with QRF was the American University of Beirut that contributed two courses.\nCourses from QRF are offered primarily in Arabic, but translations of courses from prestigious universities like Harvard and MIT are also available. At its launching, Edraak offered 10 courses.\n\n\nEdraak is also seen as an employee training and recruitment platform for companies in the region. The varied nature of the online courses provides companies the opportunity to upgrade employee skills as workplace demands continuously increases. Through removing the language barriers and making knowledge accessible, Edraak may contribute to decreasing Arab's lagging behind the western world in education in knowledge and digital fluency.\n"}
{"id": "29395648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29395648", "title": "Marisa Rezende", "text": "Marisa Rezende\n\nMarisa Rezende (born 1944) is a Brazilian music educator and composer.\n\nMarisa Rezende was born in Rio de Janeiro, the daughter of a doctor (Nunes de Barcellos) and his wife (Costa Pereira) of Portuguese ancestry. She began playing piano at four without instruction and began lessons at age five. She studied piano at Escola de Musica in Rio, but her studies were interrupted by marriage. The couple moved in 1964 to Boston, Massachusetts, where her husband worked on a master's degree at MIT.\n\nRezende had two daughters in Boston, and when the family moved back to Rio in 1967, she had a third daughter before resuming her studies in composition. The family moved to Recife, where she worked as a pianist with the orchestra and finished her undergraduate degree. She studied fugue and counterpoint with Morelenbaum and Virginia Fiuza and composition with Padre Jaime Diniz.\n\nAfter graduating, she completed a master's degree in piano at the University of California, Santa Barbara, where she studied composition with Peter Fricker and David Gordon. She also completed a doctorate in composition at UCSB, and post-doctoral work at the University of Keele, England. After completing her studies, she took a position at Escola de Musica in Rio teaching composition. In 1989 she helped to found Musica Nova, an organization to premiere new music compositions, working with Rodolfo Caesar and Rodrigo Cicchelli. In 1999 she was awarded the Bolsa Vitae de Artes. She retired from teaching in 2002 but operates the Music and Technology Lab at the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro and continues work as a composer.\n\nRezende has composed for orchestra, chamber ensemble and solo instrument and her compositions been performed internationally. Selected works include:\n\n\nHer work has been recorded and issued on CD including:\n"}
{"id": "14506673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14506673", "title": "Martin Semmelrogge", "text": "Martin Semmelrogge\n\nMartin Semmelrogge (born 8 December 1955) is a German actor, best known for his role as the comical Second Watch Officer in the film \"Das Boot\". His character was based on the real life World War II submarine officer Werner Herrmann. \n\nSemmelrogge is the brother of former actor Joachim Bernhard, who appeared in \"Das Boot\" as the religious sailor.\n\nLike many of his \"Das Boot\" co-stars, Semmelrogge went on to have a successful career in the German cinema.\n\n"}
{"id": "2188793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2188793", "title": "Martina Arroyo", "text": "Martina Arroyo\n\nMartina Arroyo (born February 2, 1936) is an American operatic soprano who had a major international opera career from the 1960s through the 1980s. She was part of the first generation of black opera singers of Puerto Rican descent to achieve wide success, and is viewed as part of an instrumental group of performers who helped break down the barriers of racial prejudice in the opera world.\n\nArroyo first rose to prominence at the Zurich Opera between 1963–1965, and then was one of the Metropolitan Opera's leading sopranos between 1965 and 1978. During her 13 years at the Metropolitan Opera, she was also a regular presence at the world's opera houses, performing on the stages of La Scala, Covent Garden, the Opéra National de Paris, the Teatro Colón, the Deutsche Oper Berlin, the Vienna State Opera, the Lyric Opera of Chicago, and the San Francisco Opera. She is best known for her performances of the Italian spinto repertoire, and in particular, her portrayals of Verdi and Puccini heroines. Her last opera performance was in 1991, after which she has devoted her time to teaching singing on the faculties of various universities in the United States and Europe. On December 8, 2013, Arroyo received a Kennedy Center Honor.\n\nArroyo was born in New York City, the younger of two children of Demetrio Arroyo, originally from Puerto Rico, and Lucille Washington, a native of Charleston, South Carolina. Her older brother grew up to become a Baptist minister. The family lived in Harlem near St. Nicholas Avenue and 111th Street. Her father was a mechanical engineer at the Brooklyn Navy Yard and earned a good salary which enabled Arroyo's mother to stay at home with their children. His job also allowed the family to experience New York's cultural offerings and the family frequented museums, concerts, and the theatre. It was attending several performances of Broadway shows during the 1940s that first inspired Arroyo's interest in becoming a performer. Her mother humored her dreams and allowed Arroyo to take ballet classes. Her mother was also a talented amateur classical pianist and taught her daughter to play the instrument. Arroyo's other musical experiences as a child were largely through singing in the choirs at her Baptist church and as a student at Hunter College High School.\nAfter finishing high school in 1953, Arroyo attended Hunter College where she earned a B.A. in Romance languages in 1956 at the age of nineteen. While there she studied voice as a hobby in an opera workshop with Joseph Turnau. Turnau recognized that Arroyo was a major talent who just needed proper training. After the workshop ended, he introduced her to voice instructor Marinka Gurewich, who immediately accepted her as a student. When Arroyo did not take her training as seriously as her teacher wanted, Gurewich eventually threatened to end their lessons. Arroyo said of the incident, She further explained that at that point most of the major opera houses, including the Metropolitan Opera, had never cast a black singer, so in her mind \"opera wasn't a real possibility.\" Gurewich's threat, however, forced her to take her studies more seriously and she continued to study with her until Gurewich's death in 1990. Another important partnership formed around this time was with concert manager Thea Dispeker who, after attending one of Arroyo's recitals, offered her services at no charge until Arroyo's career took off. Dispeker helped manage much of Arroyo's career over the next several decades.\nAfter graduating from college, Arroyo was faced with the difficulty of working while trying to study singing. On the advice of her mother, she became an English teacher at Bronx High School in the Fall of 1956 but found it difficult to balance her teaching responsibilities with continued training under Gurewich. She decided to leave her teaching position and take work as a social worker at the East End Welfare Center. For two years, she managed a case load of over 100 welfare recipients while continuing her voice training. Arroyo found the work fulfilling and stated of the experience, \"My life had been centered on music for so long, and suddenly there I was, deeply involved in other people's problems,\".\nIn 1957 Arroyo auditioned for the Metropolitan Opera but was not accepted. Somewhat disheartened, she flirted with the idea of becoming an academic and began working on a master's degree in comparative literature at New York University with a dissertation on Ignacio Silone's \"Pane e Vino and Vino e Pane\". The following year she competed in and won the Metropolitan Opera's \"Audition of the Air\" competition (precursor to its National Council Auditions), earning a $1,000 cash prize and a scholarship to the Met's Kathryn Long School. She left NYU and entered the Kathryn Long School in the Fall of 1957 where she studied singing, drama, German, English diction, and fencing. While at the school, she was offered the role of the first coryphée in the American premiere of Ildebrando Pizzetti's \"Murder in the Cathedral\" to be performed at a festival in upstate New York. The concert, however, was rained out and was rescheduled for a performance at Carnegie Hall instead on September 17, 1958. This marked Arroyo's first professional appearance singing in an opera. \"The New York Times\" said of her performance, \"Martina Arroyo is a gifted soprano who appears to have remarkable potential, and she sang with a voice of amplitude and lovely color.\"\n\nIn February 1959 Arroyo sang the title role in Gluck's \"Iphigénie en Tauride\" in a concert version with the Little Orchestra Society at Town Hall. Shortly thereafter she made her debut on the opera stage at the Metropolitan Opera as the Celestial Voice in Giuseppe Verdi's \"Don Carlo\" on March 14, 1959 with Eugenio Fernandi in the title role, Leonie Rysanek as Elizabeth, Robert Merrill as Rodrigo, and Nell Rankin as Princess Eboli. This was the beginning of a long association with the Met and the beginning of a lengthy career on the opera stage.\nAfter having made her Met debut, Arroyo moved to Europe where she began to appear in roles with minor opera houses in 1959. While performing in Italy of that year she met her future husband, professional violist Emilio Poggioni. The marriage ended in divorce and she later was married to Michel Maurel until his death in 2011. Over the next several years Arroyo worked mostly in Europe in mostly smaller roles, failing to land the larger name-making roles. Those larger parts which she did get were mostly in more obscure works. During 1961 and 1962 she went back and forth between Europe and the Metropolitan Opera frequently, with her roles at the Met during this period being in Richard Wagner's \"The Ring Cycle\" and in reprises of \"Don Carlo\". Her roles in the \"Ring\" included the Third Norn and Woglinde in \"Götterdämmerung\", Woglinde in \"Das Rheingold\", Ortlinde in \"Die Walküre\", and the Forest Bird in \"Siegfried\".\n\nIn 1963 Arroyo's first major break came when she was offered a contract to join the Zurich Opera as a principal soprano. She made her debut there in the title role of Verdi's \"Aida\" where she was received enthusiastically. She continued to sing regularly at that opera house through 1968.\n\nAida became an important role for Arroyo early in her career, serving as a calling card for her at many major opera houses during the 1960s. She sang the role for her first appearance at the Hamburg State Opera in 1963 and at both the Deutsche Oper Berlin and the Vienna State Opera in 1964. In February of the following year she sang Aida in her first starring role at the Met as a last minute replacement for Birgit Nilsson. The performance received rave reviews with \"The New York Times\" praising Arroyo as \"one of the most gorgeous voices before the public today.\" Rudolf Bing, the Met's director, immediately offered her a contract to join the roster of the company's principal sopranos which extended for several years.\n\nArroyo began the 1965/66 season at the Met in October with a critically acclaimed performance of Elizabeth in \"Don Carlo\". She immediately became a favorite singer at that house portraying mostly Verdi heroines and the Met became her principal home from that point up until 1978. Her other roles at the Met during these thirteen years included Aida, Amelia in Verdi's \"Un ballo in maschera\", Cio-Cio-San in Giacomo Puccini's \"Madama Butterfly\", Donna Anna in Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\", Elvira in Verdi's \"Ernani\", Lady Macbeth in Verdi's \"Macbeth\", Leonora in Verdi's \"Il trovatore\", Leonora in Verdi's \"La forza del destino\", Liù in Puccini's \"Turandot\", Maddalena in Umberto Giordano's \"Andrea Chénier\", Santuzza in Pietro Mascagni's \"Cavalleria rusticana\", and the title role in Amilcare Ponchielli's \"La Gioconda\" among others. She was also notably the first black person to portray the role of Elsa in Wagner's \"Lohengrin\" in 1968, not just at the Met, but in all of opera history.\nDuring her years at the Met, Arroyo would frequently travel to perform at other houses both in the United States and internationally. In 1968 she sang for the first time in Israel and made her first appearance in the United Kingdom as Valentine in a London concert performance of Meyerbeer's \"Les Huguenots\". Later that year she made her debut at the Royal Opera at Covent Garden and the Philadelphia Lyric Opera Company, both singing the role of Aida. She returned to both companies a number of times during the 1970s as Verdi heroines and in parts like the title roles in Puccini's \"Tosca\" and Richard Strauss's \"Ariadne auf Naxos\". She sang Amelia in \"Un ballo in maschera\" for her debuts with both the San Francisco Opera (1971) and the Lyric Opera of Chicago (1972). She returned to Chicago to sing her first Amelia Grimaldi in Verdi's \"Simon Boccanegra\" in 1974. In 1972 she sang Aida for her debut at La Scala opposite Plácido Domingo as Radames. In 1973 she made her first appearances at the Opéra National de Paris and the Teatro Colón in Buenos Aires. In 1977 she made her debut with the Opera Company of Philadelphia portraying Senta in Wagner's \"The Flying Dutchman\" and in 1979 made her debut with Michigan Opera Theatre as Lenora in \"Il trovatore\". She remained very busy in the world's major opera houses through 1979 singing mostly Verdi, Puccini, and Strauss heroines and other roles from the lirico-spinto repertoire. Arroyo portrayed herself in an episode of \"The Odd Couple\" titled \"Your Mother Wears Army Boots\", which originally aired on January 16, 1975. The episode also featured Howard Cosell who is portrayed to be a big fan of hers.\nBy 1980, Arroyo's career had started to slow down and she was much more selective in what roles she chose to take. She returned to the Met in 1986 to sing Aida and Santuzza; making her last appearance and 199th performance at that house on October 31, 1986. In 1987 she sang her last portrayal of the title role in \"Turandot\" with the Seattle Opera and in 1989 she announced her retirement from the opera stage. She came out of retirement in 1991 for one last performance in the world premiere of Leslie Adams's \"Blake\", an opera whose story is set in pre-Civil War America when slavery was still a reality.\n\nThroughout her career Arroyo was also a frequent performer of the concert repertoire and appeared with many of the world's leading symphony orchestras. She performed often with the New York Philharmonic under conductor Leonard Bernstein who particularly admired her voice in such repertoire as Beethoven's \"Symphony No. 9\" and \"Missa Solemnis\".\n\nArroyo's talents also extended beyond the concert stage into the realm of live network television. In 1964 she appeared with the CBS Symphony Orchestra under the conductor Alfredo Antonini in the episode \"Feliz Borinquen\" of the \"CBS Repertoire Workshop\" as herself.\n\nMartina Arroyo is a recipient of a 2010 Opera Honors Award from the National Endowment for the Arts.\n\nHaving performed in the major opera houses and with the greatest symphony orchestras of the world, she has left a legacy of recordings, including: Handel's \"Judas Maccabeus\" (twice) and \"Samson\", Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\" (Donna Elvira for Karl Böhm and Donna Anna for Sir Colin Davis), Beethoven's \"Missa solemnis\" and \"Ninth Symphony\", Rossini's \"Stabat mater\", Verdi's \"I vespri siciliani\", \"Un ballo in maschera\", \"La forza del destino\" (in both the St. Peterburg and revised versions), and the \"Messa da requiem\" and Mahler's massive Eighth Symphony the Symphony of a Thousand.\n\nShe has recorded important 20th-century music, including Schoenberg's \"Gurre-Lieder\" and the \"African Oratorio\" by . She sang in the world premieres of two works: Karlheinz Stockhausen's \"Momente\" and Samuel Barber's \"Andromache's Farewell\".\n\nArroyo's discography (which also includes an aria recital), though enviable, does not encompass anything like the full range of roles she played on stage. At the Metropolitan Opera alone, these are the operas she performed but never recorded commercially: Verdi's \"Ernani\", \"Macbeth\", \"Il trovatore\", \"Don Carlos\" (the Celestial Voice as well as Elizabeth, both in Italian), and \"; Wagner's \"Lohengrin\" and \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" (featured roles in all four operas); Ponchielli's \"La Gioconda\"; Giordano's \"Andrea Chénier\"; and Puccini's \"Madama Butterfly\" and \"Turandot\" (as Liù; she played the title role in Toronto).\n\nSince her official retirement from singing in 1989 Arroyo has amassed significant teaching credits, including stints at Louisiana State University, UCLA, University of Delaware, Wilberforce University, the International Sommerakademie-Mozarteum in Salzburg and Indiana University.\n\nShe has given master classes nationally and internationally, and judged several competitions including the George London Competition and the Tchaikovsky International Competition./With Willard L. Boyd, former President of the University of Iowa, she co-authored the \"Task Force Report on Music Education in the U.S.\"\nIn 1976, she was appointed by President Gerald Ford to the National Council of the Arts in Washington, D.C. She founded the Martina Arroyo Foundation, which is dedicated to the development of emerging young opera singers by immersing them in complete role preparation courses. She is also active on the Boards of Trustees of Hunter College and Carnegie Hall. She was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2000. She was candid about her perceived status as second-best to her great contemporary, fellow African-American spinto Leontyne Price; once, when a Met doorman greeted her as \"Miss Price,\" she sweetly replied, \"No, honey, I'm the other one.\"\n\nNotes \nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "380334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380334", "title": "Monumenta Germaniae Historica", "text": "Monumenta Germaniae Historica\n\nThe Monumenta Germaniae Historica (frequently abbreviated MGH in bibliographies and lists of sources) is a comprehensive series of carefully edited and published primary sources, both chronicle and archival, for the study of German history (broadly conceived) from the end of the Roman Empire to 1500. Despite the name, the series covers important sources for the history of many countries besides Germany, since the Society for the Publication of Sources on Germanic Affairs of the Middle Ages has included documents from many other areas subjected to the influence of Germanic tribes or rulers (Britain, Czech lands, Poland, Austria, France, Low Countries, Italy, Spain, etc.). The editor from 1826 until 1874 was Georg Heinrich Pertz (1795–1876); in 1875 he was succeeded by Georg Waitz (1813-1886) .\n\nThe MGH was founded in Hanover as a private text publication society by the Prussian reformer Heinrich Friedrich Karl Freiherr vom Stein in 1819. The first volume appeared in 1826. The editor from 1826 until 1874 was Georg Heinrich Pertz, who was succeeded by Georg Waitz. Many eminent medievalists from Germany and, eventually, other countries, joined in the project of searching out and comparing manuscripts and producing scholarly editions. The motto chosen, \"Sanctus amor patriae dat animum\" (\"Holy love for the fatherland gives the spirit\") is explained as linking Romantic nationalism with professional scholarship. In 1875, the MGH was established as a more formal institution with headquarters in Berlin. \n\nIn 1935, the organization was taken over by the state and renamed the \"Reichsinstitut für ältere deutsche Geschichtskunde\" (National Institute for Older German History). This was abolished in 1945, at the end of World War II. \n\nHowever, the institute was subsequently revived under its original name with the support of German institutions and the Austrian Academy of Sciences. The Monumenta Germaniae Historica Institute has been located in Munich since 1949 and possesses a large specialized library on the medieval history of Germany and Europe, including Church history, along with 130,000 monographs and approximately 150,000 dependent writings. It moved into its current premises in the building of the Bavarian State Library in 1967.\n\nThe project, a major effort of historical scholarship, continues in the 21st century. In 2004 the MGH, with the support of the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, made all of its publications in print for more than five years available online, in photo-digital reproduction, via a link on the MGH homepage.\n\nThe series falls into five main divisions, \"Antiquitates\", \"Diplomata\", \"Epistolae\", \"Leges\" and \"Scriptores\", with an additional smaller division of \"Necrologia\". Many subsidiary series have also been established, including a series of more compact volumes for school use (\"Scriptores in usum scholarum\") and special studies (\"MGH Schriften\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52107553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52107553", "title": "Moscow State School 57", "text": "Moscow State School 57\n\nMoscow State School 57 () is a public school located in the Khamovniki District of Moscow, Russia. The school was founded in 1877 and is best known for its specialized secondary program in mathematics and its alumni.\n\nIn 1877, , a Russian engineer and educator, founded a realschule in Maly Znamensky Lane, which soon became one of the most progressive vocational schools in Russia.\n\nAfter the October Revolution, the realschule was converted into a boarding school with courses in aesthetic arts and renamed to School 4. It became popular with the Soviet establishment, with top government officials sending their children there.\n\nIn 1936, the school was transformed again, converting back to a vocational school and acquiring the number 57 in Moscow's educational system.\n\nIn 1968, Nikolay Konstantinov, a leading Russian educator in mathematics, established specialized math classes at the school. Konstantinov's teaching methodology still is used in these classes to this day and has been shared with other educational centers. The school started gaining prestige due to the quality of education it provided.\n\nAs of 2016, School 57 is a highly selective school with a competitive admission process. The high school offers specializations in humanities, biology, and mathematics, as well as a general track. In 2008–2013, the school merged with two other schools in different locations of the Khamovniki District of Moscow, in conformity with the recent reforms in educational policy.\n\nThe school has a total enrollment of over a thousand students, entering first, eighth and ninth grade.\n\nAdmission to elementary school is competitive and based on test results of the students previously enrolled in the school's tuition-based mandatory preschool program.\nIn 2015, the admission committee considered over a thousand applicants for 130 positions. By maintaining good standing the students can guarantee their further education in the school's general track middle and high school. As is the tradition in many Russian schools, incoming students are split into a number of groups of 20–30 which each have their own curricula and teachers.\n\nSchool 57 has general track classes along with its specialized programs and holds a separate admission process for specialized classes in mathematics, humanities and biology, a joint project of the school and the of Moscow State University. The admission committee considers a few hundred applicants for 20–25 places in each class.\n\nSchool 57 launches two math classes each year, with four- and three-year curriculums, each admitting around 20–25 students who have demonstrated the best problem-solving abilities during the application process. The school organizes free preparatory courses that help interested students to develop said abilities. A portfolio that includes prizes from math competitions can strengthen an application.\n\nStudents in the specialized classes receive extensive training in their areas of expertise, often covering college-level material in their junior and senior years. Graduates of the specialized classes often go on to pursue college degrees in Russia's best universities, including the Higher School of Economics, Moscow State University, and the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology.\n\nIndividual approach lies in the core of the specialized math classes' educational process. Teaching the specialized math classes isn't limited to faculty staff – additional instructors, many of whom are volunteering alumni, are involved in order to give every student necessary attention. Rather than having to learn the material from a textbook, students discover it through solving sequences of problems. Solutions are presented by the students to the instructors in one-on-one discussions. This method, introduced by Konstantinov, proved to be effective and was adopted by other educational institutions in both Russia and abroad, including School 179, the Independent University of Moscow and the Faculty of Mathematics at Higher School of Economics. Several School 57 teachers have also written textbooks that follow the method. The specialized curriculum includes introductory topics in linear algebra, calculus, set theory, and probability theory.\n\nThe school is consistently ranked among the top 10 Russian schools. In 2016, school 57 was ranked fourth in Moscow by the Moscow Department of Education and fifth in Russia by \"\" (Teacher's Newspaper), the leading educational periodical in Russia. Several teachers from the school received honorary awards, including the President's award. The school was also awarded grants by the George Soros' Open Society Foundations and the American Mathematical Society.\nIn 2016, fifteen students of the school received awards of the All-Russian Mathematical Olympiad.\n\nSchool 57 offers a number of free courses for middle schoolers preparing students who intend to apply to the mathematics, humanities and biology classes. The math program includes weekly problem solving sets for sixth-, seventh- and eighth-graders, some of the courses are published. The biology track includes lectures in math, biology and chemistry for eighth graders, and future humanities students study literature and history. All of the courses take place in the first, historical building of the school on Maly Znamensky Lane. The school also offers a number of clubs for students of each of its three buildings, including a chess club, film club, ceramics club, theater club (both puppet theater and drama) and a course preparing for TOEFL and IELTS standardized English tests.\n\nClass vacations, including those involving intense work (lectures, presentations, field trips), are popular in the school, though not mandated by the administration. Math classes usually tend to have mountain hiking journeys, while humanities classes organize urban trips, focusing on cultural and historical studies. Since 1996 the school worked together with the Tauric Chersonese museum to organize volunteers from the number of students and alumni to work and learn on different archaeological sites in the area.\n\nSchool 57 holds an annual math competition for sixth and seventh graders from Moscow schools, sometimes accommodating more than 300 students. During the competition, students interact with professors, as well as mathematics graduate and postgraduate students of Moscow universities. The competition consists of two rounds and a series of lectures on various subjects by school teachers and alumni professors.\n\nSince 2012, the school has been hosting a mathematical summer camp for high school students, where university professors offer a number of introductory courses in different areas of college level mathematics. School 57 students are admitted automatically, students of other Moscow schools receive a spot in the camp based on results of a competition. The Summer Мath Сamp is jointly organized by the school, the Higher School of Economics and Yandex. In 2016, the Summer Мath Сamp had 15 courses and 80 students. The topics covered in the camp's course include the Young tableau, knot invariants and Schubert polynomials. Students who have the School 57 math camp's honors certificate have a better chance at getting into the Higher School of Economics.\n\nIn September 2016, a series of lectures by notable alumni was launched in a joint effort by the school's alumni and students' parents. Lectures take place in all three buildings of the school, the speakers include and Anatoly Starostin. Lectures vary in format from oral presentations to interactive master classes.\n\nSchool 57 has a tradition of keeping in touch with its alumni. Every 1st Saturday of February, the school celebrates its birthday, and current students arrange entertainment for the alumni, including refreshments, skits, and games, including . The alumni, in turn, come up with intellectual contests for students.\n\nIn August 2016, several school graduates publicly accused two school teachers of sexual misconduct and the school administration of deliberate concealment of these misconducts. This scandal led to the retirement of the principal Sergey Mendelevich. The school is still undergoing legal investigation as of November 2016.\n\nAmong the notable alumni, most work in the field of mathematics. However, the list also contains well-known scholars in other disciplines, as well as politicians, businessmen, and public figures.\nThe schools faculty includes a mathematician and professor , an educator, geometer, author of several geometry textbooks Rafail Gordin, director of the , head of development of Unified State Exam Ivan Yashchenko.\n\nFormer faculty includes poet and novelist Igor Vishnevetsky, mathematician and Soviet dissident Tatyana Velikanova, biologist, founder of the biological classes at School 57 and other Moscow schools .\n"}
{"id": "39318246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39318246", "title": "Ohio Technical College", "text": "Ohio Technical College\n\nOhio Technical College is a private automotive technical college located in Cleveland, Ohio, United States. It offered its first classes in 1969 as Ohio Diesel Mechanics School. OTC offers programs in automotive, auto-diesel, collision, diesel, manufacturer, motor sports, PowerSport, restoration and welding.\n\nIn 1969, Ohio Diesel Mechanics School offered one 6-week course with phases in Cummins 4-stroke engine, Detroit 2-stroke engine and basic diesel fundamentals. In 1972, the school’s name changed to Ohio Diesel Technical Institute, and, in 1981, automotive diesel was added to the curriculum. In 1984, an Automotive Technology program was added. In 1987, the Motorcycle and Small Engine Training program was added, following a name change to Ohio Auto/Diesel Technical Institute. A new Associate of Technical Studies degree program was developed and approved in 1994. Because of its new degree-granting ability, the school was renamed Ohio Auto Diesel Technical College the following year.\n\nIn 2000, BMW of North America entered into contract with OTC to provide the FAST Track program, which stands for Factory Advanced Skilled Training. In 2003, High Performance and Racing and Alternative Fuel Technology classes were added to the curriculum. Over the next few years, additional programs were added, including a Custom Paint and Graphics specialization program, the Complete Automotive Technology program, and the Alternative Fuels and High Performance and Racing program. In 2008, the PowerSport Institute (PSI) branch campus was completed and played host to OTC's motorcycle technician training division. In 2010, OTC partnered with Edelbrock to offer a 12-week course that focuses on building and tuning American muscle cars and performance vehicles.\n\nThe college's expanding program has resulted in it being included several times appeared on the Weatherhead list of the 100 fastest growing companies in Northeast Ohio. In 2010 the college had about 1,000 students; the new programs raised this to 1,500 in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "38672419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38672419", "title": "Open Dictionary of English", "text": "Open Dictionary of English\n\nCue\nThe Open Dictionary of English (ODE, after the OED) is a multimedia learners' dictionary, published by 501(c)3 nonprofit organization LearnThat Foundation. It is fully integrated with LearnThatWord, the vocabulary and spelling tutoring program by LearnThat Foundation, and can also be used as a standalone dictionary.\n\nThe Open Dictionary of English cherishes English as a global language. \nIts goal is to connect learners with words illustrating their usage and nuances in a lively multimedia format.\n\nThe ODE contains around 180,000 words. Word data is assorted from a range of online sources. The Open Dictionary of English is a collaborative project, based on Open Source materials, LearnThat's own resources, and partner APIs. It contains data from WordNet/Princeton University and Wiktionary, Google, Wordnik.com, Dictionary.com, Stands4.com, YouTube.com, OEDILF.com, Kylescholz.com, Best-Practice.com, and Forvo.com.\n\nThe Open Dictionary of English offers:\n\n• Videos and video snippets showing word usage\n• Images\n• Pronunciations from around the world\n• Interactive thesaurus\n• Hundreds of usage examples for each word\n• Idioms and limericks\n• Definitions from multiple sources\n• Translations in 37 languages\n• Synonyms, antonyms\n• Words that rhyme\n• Origin and root word information\n• Verb conjugations\n• Tutoring comments and trivia \n• Integrated LearnThatWord tutoring\n\nUsers can add, edit and flag resources, and a team of human editors reviews changes before including them in the resource.\n\nThe dictionary is currently in Public Beta.\n\n"}
{"id": "8976454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8976454", "title": "Rakesh Jain", "text": "Rakesh Jain\n\nRakesh K. Jain is the Andrew Werk Cook Professor of Tumor Biology at Massachusetts General Hospital in the Harvard Medical School and Director of the E.L. Steele Laboratories for Tumor Biology at the Massachusetts General Hospital.\nHe has mentored more than 200 graduate and postdoctoral students from over a dozen different disciplines. Jain's research findings are summarized in more than 600 publications, which have been cited more than 70,000 times (as of December, 2015). He was among the top 1% cited researchers in Clinical Medicine in 2014-15. He serves or has served on advisory panels to government, industry and academia, and is a member of editorial advisory boards of 22 journals, including Nature Reviews Cancer and Nature Reviews Clinical Oncology. He has received more than 75 awards from engineering and medical professional societies/institutions, and is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences as well as all three branches of the US National Academies – the National Academy of Medicine, the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Sciences. In 2014, he was chosen as one of 50 Oncology Luminaries on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the American Society of Clinical Oncology. In 2015, Jain received honorary doctorates from Duke University, KU Leuven, Belgium and IIT-Kanpur, India. In 2013, he was awarded the National Medal of Science.\n\nJain received his bachelor's degree in 1972 from IIT Kanpur, and his MS and PhD degrees in 1974 and 1976 from the University of Delaware, all in chemical engineering. He served as assistant professor of chemical engineering at Columbia University (1976 to 1978), and as assistant (1978–79), associate (1979–83) and full professor (1983-1991) of chemical engineering at Carnegie Mellon University. He spent his 1983-84 sabbatical year as a Guggenheim Fellow in the departments of chemical engineering at MIT, bioengineering at UCSD and radiation oncology at Stanford, and his 1990-91 sabbatical as a Humboldt Senior Scientist-Awardee at the Institute of Pathophysiology of University of Mainz, and the Institute of Experimental Surgery of University of Munich. In 1991, Jain became the Andrew Werk Cook Professor of Radiation Oncology (Tumor Biology) at Harvard Medical School, and Director of Edwin L. Steele Laboratories of Tumor Biology at Massachusetts General Hospital.\n\nJain is regarded as a pioneer in the area of tumor microenvironment and widely recognized for his seminal discoveries in tumor biology, drug delivery, in vivo imaging, bioengineering, and bench-to-bedside translation. These include uncovering the barriers to the delivery and efficacy of molecular and nano-medicines in tumors, developing new strategies to overcome these barriers, and then translating these strategies from bench to bedside. He is most celebrated for proposing a new principle – normalization of vasculature – for treatment of malignant and non-malignant diseases characterized by abnormal vessels that afflict more than 500 million people worldwide. This concept has fundamentally changed the thinking of scientists and clinicians about how antiangiogenic agents work, and how to combine them optimally with other therapies to improve the treatment outcome in patients.\n\n"}
{"id": "28450260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28450260", "title": "Rehabilitation robotics", "text": "Rehabilitation robotics\n\nRehabilitation robotics is a field of research dedicated to understanding and augmenting rehabilitation through the application of robotic devices. Rehabilitation robotics includes development of robotic devices tailored for assisting different sensorimotor functions(e.g. arm, hand, leg, ankle), development of different schemes of assisting therapeutic training, and assessment of sensorimotor performance (ability to move) of patient; here, robots are used mainly as therapy aids instead of assistive devices. Rehabilitation using robotics is generally well tolerated by patients, and has been found to be an effective adjunct to therapy in individuals suffering from motor impairments, especially due to stroke.\n\nRehabilitation robotics can be considered a specific focus of biomedical engineering, and a part of human-robot interaction. In this field, clinicians, therapists, and engineers collaborate to help rehabilitate patients.\n\nProminent goals in the field include: developing implementable technologies that can be easily used by patients, therapists, and clinicians; enhancing the efficacy of clinician's therapies; and increasing the ease of activities in the daily lives of patients.\n\nThe International Conference on Rehabilitation Robotics occurs every two years, with the first conference in 1989. The most recent conference was held in July 2017 in London (UK), while the next ICORR conference will be held in June 2019 in Toronto, as part of the RehabWeek. Rehabilitation robotics was introduced two decades ago for patients who have neurological disorders. The people that you will most commonly find using rehabilitation robots are disabled people or therapists. When the rehabilitation robots were created they were not intended to be recovery robots but to help people recognizing objects through touch and for people who suffered from nervous system disorder. Rehabilitation robots are used in the recuperation process of disabled patients in standing up, balancing and gait. These robots must keep up with a human and their movement, therefore in the making of the machine the makers need to be sure that it will be consistent with the progress of the patient. Much rigorous work is put into the design because the robot will work with people who have disabilities and will not be able to react quickly in case something goes wrong.\n\nRehabilitation robots are designed with applications of techniques that determine the adaptability level of the patient. Techniques include but are not limited to active assisted exercise, active constrained exercise, active resistive exercise, passive exercise, and adaptive exercise. In active assisted exercise, the patient moves his or her hand in a predetermined pathway without any force pushing against it. Active constrained exercise is the movement of the patient’s arm with an opposing force; if it tries to move outside of what it is supposed to. Active resistive exercise is the movement with opposing forces. These machines MIT-Manus, Bi-Manu-Track and MIME make the active resistive exercise possible. Passive exercise needs to be pushed from the patient. Finally, an adaptive exercise is an excessive workout that the robot has never done and is adapting to the new unknown pathway. These devices Bi-ManuTrack and MIME support the adaptive exercise possible. The active constrained exercise is supported by all the machines that are mentioned.\n\nOver the years the number of rehabilitation robotics has grown but they are very limited due to the clinical trials. Many clinics have trials but do not accept the robots because they wish they were remotely controlled. Having Robots involved in the rehabilitation of a patient has a few positive aspects. One of the positive aspects is the fact that you can repeat the process or exercise as many times as you wish. Another positive aspect is the fact that you can get exact measurements of their improvement or decline. You can get the exact measurements through the sensors on the device. While the device is taking a measurement you need to be careful because the device can be disrupted once it is done because of the different movements the patient does to get out. The rehabilitation robot can apply constant therapy for long periods. The rehabilitation robot is a wonderful device to use according to many therapists, scientists, and patients that have gone through the therapy. In the process of a recovery the rehabilitation robot is unable to understand the patient’s needs like a well experienced therapist would. The robot is unable to understand now but in the future the device will be able to understand. Another plus of having a rehabilitation robot is that there is no physical effort put into work by the therapist.\n\nLately, rehabilitation robotics have been used in training medicine, surgery, remote surgery and other things, but there have been too many complaints about the robot not being controlled by a remote. Many people would think that using an industrial robot as a rehabilitation robot would be the same thing, but this is not true. Rehabilitation robots need to be adjustable and programmable, because the robot can be used for multiple reasons. Meanwhile, an industrial robot is always the same; there is no need to change the robot unless the product it is working with is bigger or smaller. In order for an industrial robot to work it would have to me more adjustable to its new task.\n\nHand of Hope is an intention-driven exoskeleton hand that focuses on improving motion of the hand and fingers in stroke victims, developed by Rehab-Robotics. The robotic hand is controlled by EMG signals in the forearm muscles, meaning that patients can move their hand using only their brain. The device also has a continuous passive motion mode, where the actions of hand opening and closing are done involuntarily. \n\nEkso Bionics is currently developing and manufacturing intelligently powered exoskeleton bionic devices that can be strapped on as wearable robots to enhance the strength, mobility, and endurance of soldiers and paraplegics. Tyromotion is currently developing and manufacturing a set of intelligent rehabilitation devices for the upper extremity. The hand rehabilitation robot called AMADEO offers a range of rehabilitation strategies including passive, assistive, ROM, force and haptic training. The arm rehabilitation robot called DIEGO offers bilateral arm therapy including assistive force for weight reduction and full 3D tracking of the arm movement for augemented feedback training in a virtual reality environment.\n\nThe number of disabled people in Spain had gone up due to aging. This means the number of assistance has gone up. The rehabilitation robot is very popular in Spain because it is an acceptable cost, and there are many people in Spain that has strokes and need assistance afterward. Rehabilitation robotics are very popular with people who have suffered a stroke because the proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation method is applied. When you suffer a stroke your nervous system becomes damage in most cases causing people to have disability for six months after the stroke. The robot would be able to carry out exercises a therapist would carry out but the robot will do some exercises that are not so easy to be carried out by a human being. The pneumatic robot helps people who have had strokes or any other illness that has caused a disorder with their upper limb\n\nA 2018 review on the effectiveness of mirror therapy by virtual reality and robotics for any type of pathology concluded that: 1) Much of the research on second-generation mirror therapy is of very low quality; 2) Evidence-based rationale to conduct such studies is missing; 3) It is not relevant to recommend investment by rehabilitation professionals and institutions in such devices. \n\nThere are different types of robots that can be used in the results of a stroke. The InMotion 2 can be used, it allows participates to practice reaching movement in horizontal plane with a reduction of gravity. The motions that are performed require shoulder flexion and extension and external rotation. It is very easy to set up the usage of this robot. The procedure of using this robot is the following. The participant sits down at a desk and places her or his into a trough. Then the participants’ looks at a computer screen and try to reach out for the target. As you are reaching out for the target the device gives guidance so that your therapy can be successful.\n\nAnother example of rehabilitation robot is called Hipbot. The Hipbot is a robot used in patients with limited mobility. The hip is an important joint in the human body, it supports our weight and allows the movement and statically position. When people suffer a fracture by an accident or have problems in this location, need to improve a rehabilitation process. This robot helps in this cases, because it combines movements of abduction/adduction and flexion/extension that help the patients to restore their mobility. The robot has 5 degree of freedom mechanism necessary to all positions for the rehab, it is controlled by a PID controller and can be used for both legs (separately).\n\nSome workers are working on robots that support a patient’s body, so that the patient can concentrate on something else while he or she is walking.\n\nCurrent robotic devices include exoskeletons for aiding limb or hand movement such as the Tibion Bionic Leg, the Myomo Neuro-robotic System, MRISAR's STRAC (Symbiotic Terrain Robotic Assist Chair) and the Berkeley Bionics eLegs; enhanced treadmills such as Hocoma's Lokomat; robotic arms to retrain motor movement of the limb such as the MIT-MANUS, and finger rehabilitation devices such as tyromotion's AMADEO. Some devices are meant to aid strength development of specific motor movements, while others seek to aid these movements directly. Often robotic technologies attempt to leverage the principles of neuroplasticity by improving quality of movement, and increasing the intensity and repetition of the task. Over the last two decades, research into robot mediated therapy for the rehabilitation of stroke patients has grown significantly as the potential for cheaper and more effective therapy has been identified. Though stroke has been the focus of most studies due to its prevalence in North America, rehabilitation robotics can also be applied to individuals (including children) with cerebral palsy, or those recovering from orthopaedic surgery.\n\nThe MIT-MANUS in particular has been studied as a means of providing individualized, continuous therapy to patients who have suffered a stroke by using a performance-based progressive algorithm. The responsive software allows the robot to alter the amount of assistance it provides, based on the patient's speed and timing of movement. This allows for a more personalized treatment session without the need for constant therapist interaction. An additional benefit to this type of adaptive robotic therapy is a marked decrease in spasticity and muscle tone in the affected arm. Different spatial orientations of the robot allow for horizontal or vertical motion, or a combination in a variety of planes. The vertical, anti-gravity setting is particularly useful for improving shoulder and elbow function.\n\nRehabilitation robotics may also include virtual reality technology.\n\n\n\nThis list is not meant to be exclusionary, but meant to direct interested readers to institutions working with rehabilitation robotics:\n\n\nThis extensive list of labs in the United Kingdom: http://rehabilitationrobotics.net/cms/?q=node/2\n\n"}
{"id": "294968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=294968", "title": "Robert Sward", "text": "Robert Sward\n\nRobert Sward (born 1933) is an American and Canadian poet and novelist. Jack Foley, in his Introduction to Sward's \"Collected Poems, 1957–2004\" (Black Moss Press, 2004) calls him, \"in truth, a citizen, at heart, of both countries. At once a Canadian and American poet, one with a foot in both worlds, Sward also inhabits an enormous in-between.\" Or, as Rainer Maria Rilke puts it, \"Every artist is born in an alien country; he has a homeland nowhere but within his own borders.\"\n\nBorn in 1933 and raised in Chicago, Illinois, Sward began writing poetry at the age of 15 when he became involved with a street gang and used rhyming couplets in his notes to the other gang members. He graduated from Von Steuben High School at 17 and quit his job as a soda jerk in a pharmacy to join the United States Navy. In 1952 he was stationed in Korea on an amphibious ship, LST 914. A Yeoman 3rd Class, Sward soon became the head of the ship's library, while serving in the combat zone during the Korean War.\n\nHe has taught at Cornell University, 1964–65, where he first experimented with computer-generated poetry and served on the editorial board of \"Epoch\". He went on to teach at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, the University of Victoria, and the University of California, Santa Cruz.\n\nIn the 1980s he worked for the CBC, where he interviewed and produced 60-minute radio features on Leonard Cohen, Margaret Atwood, Earle Birney, John Robert Colombo, Al Purdy, Gwendolyn MacEwen, and other leading Canadian figures. His \"Quill & Quire\" interview with Nobel prize winner, Saul Bellow, was widely read. Sward also worked as journalist, book reviewer and feature writer for \"The Toronto Star\", \"The Globe and Mail\", and \"The Financial Times\" in Toronto, Ontario while living on the Toronto Islands. He received a Canada Council grant to research and write \"The Toronto Islands\" (1983), a best-selling (Source: Dreadnaught Press publisher, 1983) illustrated history of a unique community, from prehistoric times to the present.\n\nA Fulbright Scholar and Guggenheim Fellow, he was chosen by Lucille Clifton to receive a Villa Montalvo Literary Arts Award and is the author of 30 books of poetry, fiction and nonfiction. He has been published widely in numerous anthologies and traditional literary magazines, such as \"The New Yorker\", \"Poetry Chicago\", and \"The Hudson Review\". Sward later worked as technical writer and editor for Santa Cruz Operation (SCO), and served as \"bridge person\" between traditional hard copy academic periodicals and literary eZines.\n\nIn September 2016, at Second Annual Voices of the River Poetry Celebration, supported by a grant from Arts Council Santa Cruz County, sponsored by Bookshop Santa Cruz, Poetry Santa Cruz and the Coastal Watershed Council, Robert Sward was named Poet Laureate of Santa Cruz County, 2016–2018.\n\nThe preceding Poet Laureates included Gary Young, David Swanger and Ellen Bass\n\nHe began publishing on the Internet in the late 1980s and early 90s with appearances in \"Alsop Review\", \"Blue Moon Review\", \"Web de Sol\", \"X-Connect\", \"eSCENE\", \"Fiction Online\", \"Hawk\", \"Realpoetik\", and \"Zero City\". His essay, \"Why I Publish in e-Zines\", appeared online in 1995 and has been widely reprinted. Sward's \"Earthquake Collage,\" impressions, news items, poetry, and facts regarding the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake and its aftermath, appeared in \"Pathways to the Past, Adventures in Santa Cruz County History, History Journal Number 6,\" Museum of Art and History, Santa Cruz, CA, April 2009.\n\nIn addition to other external sites, Robert Sward also has an active personal website: www.robertsward.com\nAs well as MonoBlogAlz.com which was created as a memorial for his late wife Gloria K. Alford 1928–2017, a well known West Coast visual artist.\n\nSward's first book, \"Uncle Dog & Other Poems\" (1962), was published by Putnam & Co. in England. It was followed by \"Kissing the Dancer\" (Cornell University Press, 1964), with an Introduction by Pulitzer Prize poet William Meredith. \"The Carleton Miscellany\" reviewed the book saying, \"In the animal poems there is a bravery in the face of our limitations, a warmth for our absurdities, a way of life to be gleaned from our failings and ineptitudes... a self-critique that turns our freakishness into an ironic source of fulfillment and transcendence.\" Source: Theodore Holmes in \"The Carleton Miscellany\" 1964. The poem, \"Uncle Dog: The Poet At 9\", has been frequently anthologized and Sward continues to write about exotic animals and dogs in particular. Animated videos of these works (mini-movies with poetry) employ avatars, digital representations of the poet and his subjects, and appear in DVD format and online at Blue's Cruzio Cafe.\n\nA key theme in his most recent books, \"Rosicrucian in the Basement\" (2001), \"Heavenly Sex\" (2002), \"The Collected Poems, 1957–2004\" (2004), and \"God is in the Cracks\" (2006), is fathers and sons. Sward's father, Dr. Irving M. Sward, was a podiatrist and something of a mystic, combining his practice of Rosicrucianism with a study of the Kabbalah. Of \"Rosicrucian in the Basement\", Robert Bly writes, 'There are many mysteries between father and son that people don't talk about... There's much leaping [in Sward's poetry], but each line, so to speak, steps on something solid.' In commenting on the father and son series Dana Gioia adds, \"The CD is terrific... \"Rosicrucian in the Basement\" unfolds perfectly at its own pace and never loses the listener.\" Source: \"Robert Sward: Poetry, Review & Interview with Jack Foley, Recorded for KPFA-FM Berkeley, CA with readings from Heavenly Sex & Rosicrucian in the Basement\" (2002), \"Uncle Dog Audio\", Number 1002 (2002), and \"The Collected Poems,\" Black Moss Press,\"1957–2004\" (2004).\n\nGarrison Keillor selected \"God is in the Cracks\", one of the father and son poems and title poem of Sward's 2006 collection, for broadcast on his radio show \"Writer's Almanac.\"\n\nSward and his life-partner, visual artist Gloria K. Alford (1928–2017), lived in Santa Cruz, California, where he took up residence in 1985, after fourteen years living and working in Canada, primarily in Victoria, B.C. (1969–1979) and on the Toronto Islands (1979–1985). A member of the League of Canadian Poets since 1975, Sward has toured Canada with each of his new books, reviewed and helped bring noted Canadian writers to the U.S.\n\nSward's five children include Cheryl Cox Macpherson, a Professor of Bioethics; Kamala Joy, an environmental scientist; Michael Sward, a contractor and builder; Hannah Sward, a Los Angeles based fiction writer; and Nicholas Sward, a Toronto-based executive chef.\n\nHis literary correspondence and papers are housed at University Libraries, Washington University in St. Louis, Department of Special Collections, Olin Library, St. Louis, MO 63130. (WTU00110). Additionally Robert's papers are collected at the National Library of Canada in Ottawa, and at the University of Victoria library, Special Collections, in Victoria, British Columbia. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13063808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13063808", "title": "Slow reading", "text": "Slow reading\n\nSlow reading is the intentional reduction in the speed of reading, carried out to increase comprehension or pleasure. The concept appears to have originated in the study of philosophy and literature as a technique to more fully comprehend and appreciate a complex text. More recently, there has been increased interest in slow reading as result of the slow movement and its focus on decelerating the pace of modern life. \n\nThe use of slow reading in literary criticism is sometimes referred to as close reading. Of less common usage is the term, \"deep reading\". Slow reading is contrasted with speed reading which involves techniques to increase the rate of reading without adversely affecting comprehension, and contrasted with skimming which employs visual page cues to increase reading speed. \n\nThe earliest reference to slow reading appears to be in Nietzsche's preface to the 1887 \"Daybreak\": \"It is not for nothing that one has been a philologist, perhaps one is a philologist still, that is to say, a teacher of slow reading.\"\n\nBirkerts, in his book \"The Gutenberg Elegies\", stated \"Reading, because we control it, is adaptable to our needs and rhythms. We are free to indulge our subjective associative impulse; the term I coin for this is deep reading: the slow and meditative possession of a book.\" Birkerts' emphasis on the importance of personal control over the speed of reading is echoed by Pullman, who additionally argued that taking control of the pace of one's reading is a form of personal freedom, and develops an appreciation of democracy. A similar view was stated by Postman, who noted the character of the ordinary citizen of the 19th century, a mind that could listen for hours on end to political orations clearly shaped by a culture favouring text. Postman warns that reading books is important for developing rational thinking and political astuteness.\n\nLindsay Waters, Executive Editor for the Humanities at Harvard University Press, declared a worldwide reading crisis resulting from our global push toward productivity. He asserts that young children are learning to read faster, skipping phonetics and diagramming sentences, and concludes that these children will not grow up to read Milton. He foresees the end of graduate English literature programs. \"There is something similar between a reading method that focuses primarily on the bottom-line meaning of a story in a novel and the economic emphasis on the bottom line that makes automobile manufacturers speed up assembly lines.\" He advised re-introducing time into reading: \"The mighty imperative is to speed everything up, but there might be some advantage in slowing things down. People are trying slow eating. Why not slow reading?\" \n\nCarl Honoré, an advocate of the slow movement, discusses slow reading in his book \"In Praise of Slow\". He recommends slow reading as one of several practices to decelerate from the fast pace of modern life. Laura Casey points out that the increasing availability of instant communication technologies, such as texting and social media like Facebook and Twitter, may be contributing to the decline of slow reading.\n\nIn 2008, novelist I. Alexander Olchowski founded the Slow Book Movement to advocate for reading practices related to the slow movement, including reading light material at a relaxed pace for pleasure, reading complex materials slowly for insight, reading materials of local interest and by local authors, and community building around local libraries and reading events.\n\nWhile there is substantial research about involuntary slow reading, which can arise from a lack of fluency and is a predictor of dyslexia, there are a few studies which demonstrate the positive value of voluntary slow reading. Nell (1988) showed that there is substantial rate variability during natural reading, with most-liked pages being read significantly slower. Sherry Jr. and Schouten (2002) suggested that close reading could have commercial application as a research method for the use of poetry in marketing. Advocates of speed-reading point out that subvocalization slows the speed of reading, but studies by Carver found no other observable negative effect on the reading process, and observed that the slower pace seemed to improve comprehension.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8950535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8950535", "title": "Turn board", "text": "Turn board\n\nA turn board (also known as turning board) is a training device commonly used in the fields of Ballet, dance, ice skating, and other athletics in order to aid in the development of various dance turns. It is believed that regular use of a turning board may increase confidence and comfort while performing various moves that involve turns. In dance and gymnastics, a turn is a rotation of the body about the vertical axis. It is usually a complete rotation of the body, although quarter (90°) and half (180°) turns are possible for some types of turns\n\nBallet is a type of performance dance that originated in the Italian Renaissance courts of the 15th century and later developed into a concert dance form in France and Russia. It has since become a widespread, highly technical form of dance with its own vocabulary based on French terminology. It has been globally influential and has defined the foundational techniques used in many other dance genres. Becoming a ballet dancer requires years of training. Ballet has been taught in various schools around the world, which have historically incorporated their own cultures to evolve the art.\n\nTurning boards come in various materials and subtle variations in design. Generally, the turn boards will be 10 – 12 inches in length, and 3-4 inches in width as it is a platform for a foot. Turn boards have an arched shape to reduce the boards touchpoint on the ground, and to allow for turning flat footed. Thus causing less friction and more ease of spinning. Generally, the boards are made of wood or a plastic composite that has a friction reducing component, and come in a variety of colors and features.\n\nTurning boards normally function through proper application of the law of physics by reducing friction and increasing the ease of spinning.\n\nThe user will commonly stand on the turning board with one foot and attempt to rotate the body in an effort to become familiar with the motion of turning and the functions of a dance turn. This increased ease of turning due to the reduced friction, in effect, allows the dancer to focus on other functions of the turn such as spotting, balance, and muscle memory. The turn boards are best used on Marley, wood, or tile floors.\n\nTurning boards are mainly used by ballet dancers and ice skaters in order to aid the process dance turns. However, turning boards are also used by other types of dancers (jazz dance, tap dance, hip-hop dance, etc.) as well as gymnast and other athletes looking for work on the sensation of multiple turns. Its more commonly used for aspiring dancers still mastering their craft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15086067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15086067", "title": "Universidad Argentina John F. Kennedy", "text": "Universidad Argentina John F. Kennedy\n\nThe Universidad Argentina John F. Kennedy (John F. Kennedy Argentine University) was founded by Miguel Herrera Figueroa, JD, on April 4, 1964 in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The university has 18 units in the City of Buenos Aires and two in Buenos Aires Province. In 2008, it had 39 academic departments and a students department, where activities related to sports are developed with the Kennedy Choir and the Theater Workshop.\n\n\nN.B. Under the Argentine education system, a \"Licenciatura\" is equivalent to a B.S. or a B.A. degree.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31644128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31644128", "title": "University Teachers Union (Japan)", "text": "University Teachers Union (Japan)\n\nThe University Teachers Union (大学教員組合 – \"Daigaku Kyouin Kumiai\") was founded in January 1999 and represents the interests of tertiary-level teachers in the Kanto region of Japan. Membership is open to any teacher, regardless of nationality, who is employed at a university, college, or post-graduate institution in a non-management post. Under Japanese Trade Union Law, the University Teachers Union has the right to conduct collective bargaining with schools on behalf of its members. While negotiations with management are conducted in Japanese, internal business is mostly conducted in English.\n\nAlthough the University Teachers Union (UTU) describes itself as a union, it is in fact a branch of the National Union of General Workers Tokyo Nambu (全国一般労働組合東京南部 – \"Zenkoku Ippan Roudou Kumiai Tokyo Nambu\"), a trade union usually referred to as NUGW Tokyo Nambu or just \"Nambu\". Nambu is a member of the NUGW National Council ( \"Zenkoku Ippan Roudou Kumiai Zenkoku Kyogikai\"), a national umbrella organization for 39 trade unions, commonly known in English by its shortened title: the National Union of General Workers. NUGW National Council is in turn affiliated to National Trade Union Council (全国労働組合連絡協議会 – \"Zenrokyo\"), the smallest of the three national labour federations in Japan.\n\nWithin the NUGW National Council, UTU works closely with two of Nambu's sister unions which have a high proportion of foreign members: the General Union and the Fukuoka General Union. UTU also works closely with the Union of Part-Time Lecturers (非常勤講師組合 – \"Hijoukin Koushi Kumiai\"), a union established in 1996, with roughly 200 members. The Union of Part-Time Lecturers is affiliated to the second largest labour federation, the National Confederation of Trade Unions (全国労働組合総連合 – \"Zenroren\"), and conducts its business in Japanese.\n\nAs a labour organization, UTU works towards the improvement and maintenance of working conditions, the improvement of the general working environment and employee welfare, and cooperation with other organizations that have similar objectives.\nUTU’s policies aim to realize:\n\nIn 2004, UTU carried out a Survey of Foreign Nationals at Japanese Universities. The survey was compiled and published in collaboration with the Tokyo area Union of Part-Time Lecturers.\n\nThe concerns used to formulate the survey were:\nQuestions concerned, among other issues: tenure and contracts, visa status, health insurance and pension, unemployment insurance, language, and housing. Analysis of responses from 330 foreign university instructors showed discriminatory treatment by universities in many of these matters. The Survey Report was submitted to the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labour and Welfare, and the Ministry of Justice at a meeting with lawmakers and officials on 8 March 2005.\n\nUTU also contributed to a 2005 national survey of the conditions of part-time university lecturers, in conjunction with the Union of Part-Time Lecturers Kansai, Union of Part-Time Lecturers Tokyo Area, General Union, and Fukuoka General Union.\n\nIn 2007, as part of a campaign to maintain and improve working conditions, UTU launched a petition against outsourcing (the use of agency workers to reduce the labour costs of direct employment), a practice that continues to threaten the security of university teachers.\n\nIn 2006 and 2007, with the support of General Union and the Union of Part-Time Lecturers, UTU hosted forums and workshops in Tokyo to provide opportunities for college and university teachers to share experiences, and to explore ways to protect jobs, defend educational standards and improve working conditions on campus.\n\nIn 2008, UTU supported Amnesty International Japan and Solidarity Network with Migrants Japan in their campaign to abolish the discriminatory fingerprinting and photographing of foreign residents on their re-entry to Japan.\n\nIn the aftermath of the 11 March 2011 Tohoku earthquake, UTU has provided support to Nambu’s sister union, NUGW Tohoku.\n\nNational Trade Union Council (\"Zenrokyo\") May Day, 2011. On May 1, 2011, UTU members along with Nambu under the banner of the National Union of General Workers, participated in the Hibiya Park rally commemorating International Workers' Day or May Day \"(see photo)\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14835763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14835763", "title": "Utsunomiya University", "text": "Utsunomiya University\n\nUtsunomiya University was established in 1949 by integrating three national colleges: , and .\n\nThe university at first had two faculties: Faculty of Agriculture (in Mine Campus) and Faculty of Liberal Arts (in Takaragi Campus).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19085291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19085291", "title": "V.I. Lenin Higher Party School", "text": "V.I. Lenin Higher Party School\n\nThe Vladimir Ilich Lenin Higher Party School () was a university-level education institution that existed in Albania during the period of Communist rule. It was founded on August 11, 1945 and closed in 1991. The school was accessible to all who had finished high school education. Many of the students were already graduates in other fields in other institutions of higher education in Albania. The one criterion for admission was loyalty to the Party. The studies lasted two years, without having to face exams or other academic testing, nor a final thesis or exam whatsoever. All the classes were about Marxist-Leninist indoctrination, Communist Party history and similar.\n\nThe last Director (Rector, Chancellor) of the School was Nexhmije Hoxha, the widow of Enver Hoxha, the dictator of Albania from 1944 until 1985, his death. Nexhmije herself was without a formal higher education. Previous directors included Fiqrete Shehu, the wife of long-time prime minister Mehmet Shehu.\n\nStudents were given a two-year scholarship (the duration of the studies) of 800 Albanian lek per month. This was twice the salary of a factory worker and thrice the salary of a peasant worker. For the duration of their studies, the students were given free student housing for themselves and family. The whole purpose of the existence of the school was to provide academic credentials for Party faithfuls who would otherwise be ineligible for positions requiring higher education.\n\n"}
{"id": "5282362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5282362", "title": "Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation", "text": "Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation\n\nThe Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation is a private non-profit operating foundation based in Princeton, New Jersey. It administers programs that support leadership development and build organizational capacity in education. Its current signature program is the Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship. Fellowships are granted to develop human resources, improve public policy, and help different organizations and institutions in enhancing practice in the United States as well as other countries worldwide.\n\nThe first Woodrow Wilson Fellowships were created by Dr. Whitney \"Mike\" Oates, a Princeton University classics professor who served in the Marine Corps during World War II. During his tour of duty, Professor Oates realized that many of his brightest undergraduates who had served in the armed forces were unlikely to go on to doctoral study and college teaching careers when the war was over. As the G.I. Bill took shape, however, it was clear that college enrollments would expand, and the ranks of qualified college instructors must grow.\n\nOates and the Princeton graduate dean, Sir Hugh Taylor, developed a program of fellowships funded by various individual donors to help recruit veterans to Princeton's Ph.D. programs in the humanities. In 1945, these fellowships were combined into one program and named for Woodrow Wilson, a champion of teaching and of graduate studies during his tenure as president of Princeton. The Woodrow Wilson Fellowships provided full funding for Ph.D. studies, with the proviso that recipients plan a career in college teaching.\n\nOther universities and national funders began to recognize the importance of recruiting future college professors. In 1947, Carnegie Corporation of New York provided $100,000 to expand the program to selected universities nationwide. Gradually the program broadened to extend eligibility beyond veterans, in fields other than the humanities. In 1951 the Fellowship program was placed under the administration of the Association of Graduate Schools. In the same year, the first women were granted Woodrow Wilson Fellowships.\n\nIn 1953 Robert F. Goheen, who had been one of the first four Woodrow Wilson Fellows in 1945, became national director of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Program, expanding the program to 200 fellowships nationally. Over the next several years, other funders, including the Rockefeller Foundation, also supported the program.\n\nIn 1957, the Ford Foundation provided a five-year, $24.5 million grant to support up to 1,000 Woodrow Wilson Fellowships annually, and the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation was independently incorporated. Fellowships were offered across the range of arts and sciences. Overall, during the following decade—including two renewal grants, in 1962 and 1966—the Fellowships received $52 million in Ford Foundation support, providing both awards to Fellows and supplemental support to the graduate schools hosting them.\n\nThroughout these years, a rigorous interview process was the hallmark of the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship. Professors nominated or recommended promising seniors, and applications underwent review at the Foundation, with finalists examined by regional panels on campuses around the country. A 1960 TIME magazine article proclaimed, \"The Woodrow Wilson Fellowship is fast becoming a domestic version of the Rhodes Scholarship.\"\n\nFoundation policies stipulated that candidates could not hold both the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship and other, similar fellowships for doctoral study. Some candidates, after successfully completing the intensive interviews, declined the Woodrow Wilson Fellowships to accept Rhodes Scholarships, National Science Foundation fellowships, and other such awards. These candidates were allowed designation as honorary Woodrow Wilson Fellows.\n\nIn addition to the full Woodrow Wilson Fellowships, various complementary awards were offered during the 1960s and early 1970s. These included Woodrow Wilson Dissertation Fellowships, offered to supplement the original award for Fellows who required dissertation support; Teaching and Administrative Internships, designed to engage graduate students and young administrators with the nation's historically black colleges and universities; and Martin Luther King, Jr. Fellowships, specifically intended for African American veterans of the armed forces. The mix of a signature fellowship with complementary programs to create access and capacity in the nation's education system became a pattern for later Woodrow Wilson Foundation activities.\n\nBy the early 1970s full funding for the Woodrow Wilson Fellowships had diminished, and, over the concluding several years of the program, the Foundation reduced both the number and amount of awards. By the time the original Woodrow Wilson Fellowship program ended, nearly 18,000 Fellows had been named. Woodrow Wilson Fellows went on to receive 13 Nobel Prizes, 35 MacArthur \"genius grants,\" 11 Pulitzer Prizes, 21 Presidential Medals, and many other awards.\n\nAs the original large-scale Woodrow Wilson Fellowships came to an end, the Foundation still sought to provide opportunity in higher education for specific groups of students. Following a precedent set by some of the Foundation's earlier supplementary fellowships, the Woodrow Wilson Dissertation Fellowship in Women's Studies, created in 1974, not only bolstered the growth of feminist scholarship across the humanities and social sciences, but also supported primarily women scholars completing Ph.D.s in these fields at a time when women were significantly underrepresented in doctoral study.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s the Woodrow Wilson Foundation continued to encourage work in targeted academic disciplines. The Charlotte W. Newcombe Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship, funded by the Charlotte W. Newcombe Foundation, still supports completion of Ph.D. work on ethical or religious values in any field of the humanities or social sciences. Other Woodrow Wilson programs created during the 1980s and 1990s to strengthen specific academic fields included the Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship in the Humanities (1982–2006) and the Spencer Dissertation Fellowships in Education (1987–1992).\n\nDuring the same period, the Foundation also established fellowships in higher education to encourage preparation for specific national high-need fields such as women's health.\n\nFrom time to time Woodrow Wilson fellowships have also provided support for individuals at particular stages of their careers in higher education, such as the Millicent McIntosh Fellowships for Recently Tenured Faculty and the Woodrow Wilson Academic Postdoctoral Fellowships in the Humanities.\n\nDuring the years after the original Woodrow Wilson Fellowships, the Foundation also launched various programs to cultivate and support teachers at the middle- and high-school levels, as well as in college. The earliest of these was the Woodrow Wilson Teacher Fellowship (1974–1981). Though limited in scope, serving just 42 teachers, it paved the way for the subsequent Leadership Program for Teachers (1982–2003), which brought more than 2,400 teachers into summer enrichment programs with university faculty. The related Woodrow Wilson National Network of Seminars for Teachers, begun in 1999 as Teachers as Scholars, also offers professional development, bringing teachers back to university campuses for intensive seminars in their disciplines with leading arts and sciences faculty. These programs would serve as precursors to the more recent Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship.\n\nSome of the earliest work of the initial Woodrow Wilson Fellowships required building new networks and capacities in higher education. Subsequent programs made this focus on organizational capacity more explicit.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Rockefeller Foundation and other funders supported a program of Woodrow Wilson Teaching and Administrative Internships that brought graduate students to historically black colleges and universities, seeking both to strengthen HBCUs' faculty and to provide these young scholars and leaders with campus-based experience.\n\nA separate program of the same era, the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows, created a \"speakers bureau\" that brought national leaders in for week-long residencies on small campuses at a distance from major metropolitan areas, working one-on-one and in small groups with students and faculty. The Council of Independent Colleges now manages this ongoing program.\n\nDuring the 1990s, troubled by the apparent and growing mismatch between liberal arts doctoral education and the academic and nonacademic job markets, the Foundation created a suite of programs that included the Humanities at Work and the Responsive Ph.D. The former sought both to widen potential nonacademic employers' understanding of the skills offered by individuals with doctoral-level humanities backgrounds and, within the academy, to encourage both graduate students' and faculty's appreciation for the role of the humanities in a larger socioeconomic context. The related Responsive Ph.D. initiative created a network of institutions committed to rethinking graduate education in a way that aligned doctoral graduates' preparation more fully with the academic careers awaiting them.\n\nAs in its individual work with K-12 teachers, the Foundation also, in the early 2000s, turned its attention to building networks and capacity among high schools. Through the Woodrow Wilson Early College Initiative, supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the Foundation drew on its higher education networks to create small middle and high schools through a series of school-university partnerships. These schools—part of a national Early College network serving high-need, low-income students—created models for preparing all students in a school to attend and graduate college. The WW Early College strategy includes dual enrollment, academic rigor, practical skills coaching, and on-campus experience.\n\nIn 2007, under the new leadership of Arthur Levine, the board and staff of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation reassessed the organization's connection to national needs in education. The Foundation concluded that the achievement gap was perhaps the nation's most urgent education need, not only at the K-12 level but also for institutions of higher education, which are dependent on college-ready students, and for society at large, which requires a well-educated, sophisticated workforce drawn from all socioeconomic backgrounds.\n\nBased on numerous studies indicating that the presence of a well-prepared teacher is the single most important factor in student achievement, the Foundation created the Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship to serve as its signature program for the near- to mid-term. The Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship is intended to recruit exceptionally well-qualified individuals into teaching in high-need urban and rural secondary schools, as well as to transform the way in which they are prepared to teach.\n\nThe WW Teaching Fellowship was launched in 2007 in two versions. One version funded by the Annenberg Foundation, the Leonore Annenberg Teaching Fellowship, was implemented at four selected national universities—Stanford University and the Universities of Pennsylvania, Virginia, and Washington—that showcase excellence in teacher preparation. In the other, state-based model, Fellows enroll in an intensive master's-level teacher preparation program at one of a designated group of universities. The universities, in exchange for receiving exceptional teacher candidates and a matching grant, agree to rethink their teacher preparation programs, emphasizing classroom experience from the early phases of the program. A third related program, the Woodrow Wilson-Rockefeller Brothers Fund Fellowship for Aspiring Teachers of Color, was transferred to the Woodrow Wilson Foundation in 2009 by the Rockefeller Brothers Fund. Fellows across all three programs receive $30,000 stipends and enroll in teacher preparation programs designated by the Woodrow Wilson Foundation.\n\nThe state-based model of the WW Teaching Fellowship was first implemented as the Woodrow Wilson Indiana Teaching Fellowship in December 2007 with the support of Lilly Endowment and Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels. Two additional states, Michigan and Ohio, signed on in late 2009 and 2010, creating, respectively, the W.K. Kellogg Foundation's Woodrow Wilson Michigan Teaching Fellowship, endorsed by Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm, and the Woodrow Wilson Ohio Teaching Fellowship, endorsed by Ohio Governor Ted Strickland and supported by the Ohio Board of Regents' Choose Ohio First program, with additional funds from a statewide group of private philanthropies. The Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio programs all focus specifically on teacher preparation in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, also known as the STEM fields.\n\nThe first group of Woodrow Wilson Indiana Teaching Fellows completed the first phase of their work in summer 2010. The Michigan and Ohio programs will name their first classes in 2011. Other states are in discussion about creating similar programs. President Barack Obama cited the Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship as a model of STEM teacher preparation in a January 2010 speech focused on his administration's Educate to Innovate initiative.\n\nIn addition to its teacher preparation activities, the Woodrow Wilson Foundation continues to offer a suite of fellowships that prepare emerging scholars and leaders for success in the American academy and in several high-need fields. These include the Woodrow Wilson Dissertation Fellowship in Women's Studies, the Charlotte W. Newcombe Doctoral Dissertation Fellowship, and others. Funds for general studies beyond the scope of these programs are not available from the Woodrow Wilson Foundation.\n\nThe Foundation also continues its capacity-building work in high schools, building on expertise developed with the Woodrow Wilson Early Colleges. Seventeen schools currently exist in the formal Woodrow Wilson Early College network, with another half-dozen schools and districts partnering with Woodrow Wilson to implement the approach in various ways.\n\nThe president of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation is Arthur Levine, former president of Teachers College, Columbia University. The 35-member Woodrow Wilson Board of Trustees is chaired by Walter W. Buckley, Jr., co-founder and president of Buckley Muething Capital Management. Incorporated as a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization, the Woodrow Wilson Foundation is an operating foundation supported by a range of public and private funders.\n\n"}
{"id": "50807791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50807791", "title": "Xerte", "text": "Xerte\n\nXerte is open source software for authoring learning objects. It is developed by the University of Nottingham in the UK and is free to download from the Xerte Community website.\n\n"}
