{"id": "45511459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45511459", "title": "Abai language", "text": "Abai language\n\nAbai is a Murutic language of Borneo spoken in by the Abai people in the villages of Sembuak and Tubu. \"Ethnologue\" mistakenly classifies it as a dialect of Putoh. \n"}
{"id": "292887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=292887", "title": "Advertorial", "text": "Advertorial\n\nAn advertorial is an advertisement in the form of editorial content. The term \"advertorial\" is a blend (see portmanteau) of the words \"advertisement\" and \"editorial.\" Merriam-Webster dates the origin of the word to 1946.\n\nIn printed publications, the advertisement is usually written to resemble an objective article and designed to ostensibly look like a legitimate and independent news story. In television, the advertisement is similar to a short infomercial presentation of products or services. These can either be in the form of a television commercial or as a segment on a talk show or variety show. In radio, these can take the form of a radio commercial or a discussion between the announcer and representative. The concept of internet-based advertorials is linked to native advertising; however, whether the two terms are synonymous is a point of discussion.\n\nAdvertorials can be classified into three types:\n\nAdvertorials differ from traditional advertisements in that they are designed to look like the articles that appear in the publication. Most publications will not accept advertisements that look exactly like stories from the newspaper or magazine they are appearing in. The differences may be subtle, and disclaimers—such as the word \"advertisement\"—may or may not appear. Sometimes terms describing the advertorial such as a \"special promotional feature\" or \"special advertising section\" are used. The tone of the advertorials is usually closer to that of a press release than of an objective news story.\n\nAdvertorials can also be printed and presented as an entire newspaper section, inserted the same way within a newspaper as store fliers, comics sections, and other non-editorial content. These sections are usually printed on a smaller type of broadsheet and different newsprint than the actual paper, along with different fonts and column layouts. Many newspapers and magazines will assign staff writers or freelancers to write advertorials, usually without a byline credit. A major difference between regular editorial and advertorial is that clients usually have content approval of advertorials, a luxury usually not provided with regular editorial.\n\nA related practice is the creation of material that looks like traditional media (for instance, a newspaper or magazine) but is actually created by a company to market its products. One familiar example is airline in-flight magazines, which may feature reports about travel destinations to which the airline flies.\n\nIn 1996, a UK based company called Parkway Publishing began publishing advertorials for advertisers. Parkway began enlisting clients and created PRPros to function as PR via advertorials with great success. The cottage industry is now widely used and considered very successful. Sheldon Schorr, the president of Parkway, was a leader in the crafting of advertorials and placed hundreds a year in scores of periodicals, especially magazines, utilizing quotes, brand references and trade enhancement, \"meant to compliment a company or persons' brand passively and more affordably than any other form of editorial content with much greater success than a press release\". Historically, advertorials were less frowned upon and newspapers would even \"show how magazine advertising is serving the public\".\n\nAdvertorials on television are longer than typical television advertisements. They are usually played on cable and satellite channels, which are less expensive than broadcast television. They may include a plot or story line to increase the entertainment value for viewers, and thus hold their attention longer.\n\nDaytime programs featuring light talk designed to draw in mainly a female audience often use advertorial segments which feature presentations of products, services, and packages by businesses. A representative of a business will have a discussion with a regular host, along with perhaps making a special offer for viewers.\n\nIn Australia, daytime programs featuring light talk and advertorials have been in television schedules since the late 1960s. One of the first was \"Good Morning Melbourne\" starring Roy Hampson and Annette Allison which began in 1967 followed by \"Good Morning Sydney\" in 1978, hosted by Maureen Duvall. Nine Network produced similar shows like \"In Sydney Today\" and \"In Melbourne Today\", later merged into \"Ernie and Denise\" in 1994. They were followed by a national program which began in 1992 on Network Ten called Good Morning Australia (formerly The Morning Show) with Bert Newton. This success of that show prompted the Nine Network to launch a competing program in 2002 presented by Kerri-Anne Kennerley titled \"Mornings with Kerri-Anne\", later shortened to \"Kerri-Anne\". The Seven Network followed suit with a show starring Denise Drysdale called \"Denise\" before the debut of \"The Morning Show\" in 2007. Network Ten had \"9am with David & Kim\" from 2006 which was replaced by \"The Circle\" in 2010. In November 2011, Nine Network cancelled Kerri Anne which was replaced by a new program titled 'Mornings' which premiered in 2012 presented by Sonia Kruger and David Campbell. It was later rebranded as Today Extra which mean't the show was tied closer to Nine's breakfast news program Today.\nThese programs feature a traditional daytime show format of light talk, health, beauty, fashion and recipe segments along with advertorial segments scattered throughout the show. The advertorials are usually hosted by regular advertorial hosts who interact with business representatives. The main hosts of the show usually do not interact with the advertorial hosts or the business representatives. Advertorials are regulated under the Commercial Television Industry Code of Practice, which has been registered by the Australian Broadcasting Authority.\n\nIn India, the nexus between cable television companies, popular news papers and political parties came to the fore front in a 2011 documentary made by Prasar Bharati which revealed that the ownership of seven of the ten largest media companies in India was connected to some political party or the other. This was given further credence to reports on paid news that appeared in 2015-18 in selected Indian news papers and channels connecting the dark links between the two largest political parties BJP and Congress, black money and payments made to media channels to paint them in a better light. In 2018, a sting operation nicknamed \"Cobrabost 136\" by Cobrapost, an Indian investigative journalism agency showed videos of meetings held with the 15 largest media companies, who agreed to publish / telecast communally and politically motivated and misleading information as a campaign in return for payments, routed through advertising and PR companies.\n\nIn the United States, locally produced daytime television rose in the mid-2000s as local television stations (especially those with the NBC and Fox Networks, where NBC gave up the most programming time) saw network time on weekday mornings after 9am returned to local control and saw new national talk shows either fail or not attract the right demographic to a timeslot. Beginning with \"Daytime\" on Media General station WFLA-TV in Tampa, Florida in the early 2000s, a new format featuring the structure of a traditional locally produced daytime show with the usual format of light talk, health features, beauty tips and recipe segments which was popular up to the early 1990s (when expansion of newscasts became a much less expensive, more dependable form of revenue) came into use. Some of these shows, such as WKBW-TV's \"AM Buffalo\" in Buffalo, New York, seamlessly made the transition from a traditional local talk show to a paid program with little notice.\n\nThis type of program usually features light talk designed to draw in mainly a female audience, and then presentation of products, services, and packages by local businesses; for example a basement waterproofing system might be discussed by the representative of a company in that business with the hosts, along with perhaps a special offer for viewers.\n\nIn U.S. newspapers, for example, ExxonMobil purchased an advertorial on \"The New York Times\" op-ed page every Thursday between 1972 and 2001.\n\nOn radio, advertorials can feature discussions between an announcer or a DJ and the representative of a business. The discussion may feature testimonials from customers or a personal endorsement from the announcer. The products featured can range from mobile phone/cable/satellite providers, insurance, financing, auto servicing, travel agencies, and upcoming concerts or music releases.\n\nThe \"cash for comment affair\" was an Australian scandal that broke in 1999, concerning paid advertising in radio that was presented to the audience in such a way as to sound like editorial commentary.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Advertising Standards Authority requires advertorials to be clearly marked as such. In one case, the Scottish newspaper \"The Herald\" published a feature titled \"Professional Brief\" that had been submitted by Glasgow-based French Duncan Chartered Accountants. According to a complaint, it did not clearly indicate that it was a paid advertisement. The newspaper argued that, because it was a \"sponsored column\" and it was indicated that the opinions expressed were those of the author, it did not have to refer to it as an advertisement. The ASA responded that, because payment was given in exchange for the publication of the columns and because the content was provided by the marketers rather than the newspaper, they considered the columns advertisements and required that they indicate as much.\n\nFor magazines in the United States mailed at the publication rate, the Postal Service has regulations as to how to mark editorial and advertising. Domestic Mail Manual states that under 18 USC 1734, \"if a valuable consideration is paid, accepted, or promised for the publication of any editorial or other reading matter in a Periodicals publication, that matter must be plainly marked 'advertisement' by the publisher. When a single item of paid editorial or other reading matter occupies more than one page, it need only be marked 'advertisement' on the first page. The word \"advertisement\" may be included in a statement that explains why the material is marked 'advertisement.' Such a statement must be prominent on the first page of the material and the word 'advertisement' in the statement must be in bold or italicized print or otherwise emphasized so that it can be plainly seen. Editors or publishers who print such matter without plainly marking it 'advertisement' are subject to a fine of not more than $500.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "386148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386148", "title": "Alt.sex", "text": "Alt.sex\n\nalt.sex is a Usenet newsgroup – a discussion group within the Usenet network – relating to human sexual activity. It was popular in the 1990s. An October 1993 survey by Brian Reid reported an estimated worldwide readership for the alt.sex newsgroup of 3.3 million, that being 8% of the total Usenet readership, with 67% of all Usenet \"nodes\" (news servers users log in to access the system) carrying the group. At that time, alt.sex had an estimated traffic of 2,300 messages per month.\n\nThe newsgroup hierarchy below alt.sex comprises several newsgroups, including alt.sex.stories (which is the biggest newsgroup in the hierarchy after alt.sex itself), alt.sex.pictures, alt.sex.blondes, alt.sex.bondage, alt.sex.bestiality, and alt.sex.rape. The former four newsgroups generally feature text and images similar to the type that can be found in mainstream adult magazines, such as \"Playboy\" or \"Penthouse\". The latter three newsgroups exemplify a set of sub-groups that deals in more \"extreme\" or less socially accepted topics. Other sub-groups include some with intentionally humorous names, such as alt.sex.aluminum.baseball.bat, alt.sex.boredom, and alt.sex.bestiality.hamster.duct-tape. There are more newsgroups on the less mainstream topics or sub-cultures, although as of 1998 they were generally far lower in traffic than those that deal in the more mainstream sexual behaviours. In a 1993 analysis of the alt.sex hierarchy, Maureen Furniss concluded that \"sexually oriented boards act as a kind of support group for people who post notices to them, especially individuals whose sexual orientations are very marginalized (those who practice sadomasochism or bestiality, for example).\"\n\nThe University of Waterloo in 1994 ceased carrying alt.sex-bondage, alt.sex.bestiality, alt.sex-stories, and alt.sex-stories.d upon the recommendation of its ethics committee, which had expressed concerns that the content of those newsgroups may have violated the Canadian Criminal Code.\n\nalt.sex.cancel is a Usenet newsgroup set up specifically to help combat newsgroup spam cross-posted to the entire alt.sex hierarchy. The newsgroup is a simple \"spamtrap\" – a trap used to collect samples of unsolicited messages that can then be acted on by an automated anti-spam system. According to its charter, any message posted to alt.sex.cancel may be cancelled automatically.\n\nThe well-known mass-mailing macro computer virus called the \"Melissa virus\" was originally distributed via the alt.sex newsgroup. It was hidden inside a list purporting to contain passwords to pornographic websites. The messages containing the virus were posted with message headers claiming that the post had been written using the America Online (AOL) account of Scott Steinmetz, whose username was \"skyroket\". Kizza reports that the headers on the post were probably forged by Melissa's author, David L. Smith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35523346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35523346", "title": "Amsterdam sex crimes case", "text": "Amsterdam sex crimes case\n\nThe Amsterdam sex crimes case () is a court case involving Robert Mikelson's abuse of babies in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The defendant was Roberts Mikelson, dubbed \"the Monster of Riga\" by the Dutch press, who had worked at several daycare centres in Amsterdam and was accused of abusing 67 children as well as possession, production and distribution of child pornography. Mikelson was found guilty and sentenced to 18 years and 11 months in prison, followed by involuntary commitment.\n\nThe case of convicted sex offender Robert Mikelson started in December 2010 with the broadcast in the Netherlands on the television show \"Opsporing Verzocht\" (\"Investigation Requested\") of images originating from the United States. Robert Mikelson and an unnamed child with a stuffed toy known as Miffy (). As Miffy is originally a Dutch product, the investigators suspected the child to be Dutch. After the boy's grandfather realized the boy was his grandson, the police were directed to the child's sitter, Robert Mikelson. During a search of his house, computers containing a large collection of child pornography (46,803 photos and 3,672 movies, part of which had been unsuccessfully deleted during the broadcast) were found and seized, resulting in\n\nRoberts Miķelsons (in the Netherlands generally referred to as Robert M.) (born in Riga, Latvia, 14 September 1983) became a naturalized Dutch citizen in 2008. He was convicted of possession of child pornography in Germany in 2003 while working at a daycare facility in Heidelberg. In 2004, he married Richard van O.. From 2007 to 2009, he worked at several daycare centres of \"het Hofnarretje\" group, and from 2009 to 2010, at \"Jenno's Knuffelparadijs\". According to evaluations of the Pieter Baan Centre, a forensic psychiatric observation clinic, M. is a hypersexual pedophile with a personality disorder.\n\nRichard van O. (referred to as Richard van O.), is accused of possession of child pornography as well as sexual assault on an 11-16-year-old boy, both of which he was acquitted. He is charged with being an accessory to the crimes of Robert M.\n\nM confessed to the abuse of 83 young children, but he is charged with abuse of 67 because some of the parents preferred to keep their children out of the court records owing to privacy concerns. The youngest of these children was 19 days old at the time the acts were committed. The abuse took place at the child care facilities where M. worked, at the homes of the children he babysat, and at M. and Van O's home. M. admitted abusing the children and suggested, according to media reports, that more children might have been involved. According to the prosecution (), M. carefully scouted his babysitting addresses for presence of heavy curtains and absence of nanny cams. He stopped the abuse when the children started to be able to talk.\n\nThe trial started on 12 March 2012 in the Court of Amsterdam (), a Dutch court of first instance. It took place at \"de Bunker\", a strongly defended courtroom in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. During the preliminary motions the parents of the children were granted the right to speak during the trial (a right normally only granted to direct victims), a decision which was challenged by M.' attorneys. Upon the granting of the right to speak, his lawyers (Wim Anker and Tjalling van der Goot) requested substitution () of the three judges, which was denied. The prosecution demanded a sentence of 20 years' imprisonment, followed by Involuntary commitment () for M. and 12 years for Van O. The TBS charge was based on a psychiatric report from the Pieter Baan Centre. The report was based solely on observation of his behaviour in prison, as M. had refused to cooperate with a psychiatric evaluation. According to the prosecution M. was \"cold, calculating, refined and proud of his actions\". Although M. pleaded guilty to the abuse, the defense demanded \"almost full acquittal\", stating that the search warrant for M. and Van O.'s house (and thus the photo and video evidence from the computers) had not been obtained correctly.\nOn 20 April 2012, the hearings ended with the \"last word\" of the defendants (as is customary in Dutch criminal law). M. indicated that he was sorry about his acts and that he should have done more to prevent his acts from happening:\nThe judgement was given on 21 May 2012. M. was sentenced to 18 years imprisonment, followed by involuntary commitment, while Van O. was sentenced to 6 years imprisonment. The search of the house of the defendants (in which the photographic evidence was seized) was deemed admissible and the judges considered the psychiatric evaluation in which M. was diminished responsibility asserted (a requirement for involuntary commitment) reliable. The diminished responsibility nor his cooperation during the investigation did not result in a lower sentence, due to the nature and level of organization of his crimes. Upon hearing this part of the sentence, M. threw a glass of water at the judge.\n\nM. and Van O. were further sentenced to payment of a fine of in total €467,000 euro and €365,000 respectively to the children. Further claims (for material damages to the parents) were deemed \"too complicated\" to be treated in a criminal court case, but could be claimed in a civil lawsuit. Non-payment will add 8 days imprisonment per child for M. and Van O.\n\nM.s and Van O. appealed the judgement, which triggered the prosecution to appeal as well (a so-called \"vervolg appel\") in order to have more possibilities before the appellate court. The start of the appeal took place on 15 November 2012. The judges decided to allow a second psychological evaluation center Oldenkotte in Rekken on the request of Robert M., who indicated his willingness to cooperate. The parents also had the possibility to speak during the trial, as a new law making this right explicit had in the mean time entered into force.\n\nOn April 26, 2013 the court of appeal sentenced M. to 19 years imprisonment, followed by involuntary commitment.\n\nM. appealed the judgement to the Supreme Court of the Netherlands (Hoge Raad) in a cassation procedure, in which he is represented by Dirk Daamen. The Hoge Raad dismissed the appeal, in conformation with the advice of its Advocate-General. Due to the length of the procedure before the Supreme Court, which lasted over 16 months, the length of the sentence was reduced by one month to 18 years and 11 months.\n\nThe public in the Netherlands was shocked when the events surfaced. The public prosecution also stated during the case that the events shocked Dutch society and that it would therefore not be justified to request a lesser sentence than the 20 years demanded. The case has also had effects on male preschool professionals: according to an evaluation by the news agency NOS and the \"Belangenvereniging van ouders in de kinderopvang en peuterspeelzalen (Boink)\" (English: Organization for parents in child care and day care), tens of men have quit or have been fired as a result of changed public opinion towards men in the field, including negative reactions of parents.\n\nAccording to the Amsterdam police, the investigation of leads found on M. computer has led, worldwide, to the arrests of 43 suspected child molesters.\n\nJudgments regarding M.\nJudgment regarding Van O.\n"}
{"id": "38389308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38389308", "title": "Asian immigration to Hawaii", "text": "Asian immigration to Hawaii\n\nMost early Asian settlers to the United States went to Hawaii. Most of these early immigrants moved to the islands as laborers to work on the pineapple, coconut, and sugarcane plantations. These early migrants have tended to stay, although a handful returned to their home countries. There has also been recent immigration to Hawaii from more ethnic Asian groups, including the Thai, Indonesian, and the Vietnamese.\n\nFilipinos, like most other East Asian immigrants to Hawaii, worked on the sugar plantations. In 2010, Filipinos surpassed Japanese as the largest ethnic group. At the time of the 2000 census, they were the third largest ethnic group in the islands.\n\nUntil 2010, people of Japanese ancestry made up the majority of Hawaii's population. After the breakout of World War II, \nMore than 110,000 Japanese Americans in the mainland U.S., who mostly lived on the West Coast, were forced into internment camps. However, in Hawai'i, where 150,000-plus Japanese Americans composed over one-third of the population, only 1,200 to 1,800 were also interned.\n\nKoreans mainly came to the islands to work on the pineapple and sugar plantations, but a few, including the family of Mary Paik Lee, came to the mainland (usually California) after experiencing extreme discrimination.\n\nThe Chinese discovered the Hawaiian islands in 1778; the same year as English explorer James Cook. A few also came to the islands among the crew of James Cook. Today, some Chinese born on the islands can claim to be seventh generation.\n\nPeople of Indian origin did not come to Hawaii in sizable numbers, and those who did did not stay for long. Many early Indian immigrants stopped in Hawaii only to make enough money to sail on to the mainland anywhere from the mid to late 1800's to the 1900s.\n\nA notable Indian in Hawaii was Dalip Singh Saund, who on September 13, 1910, arrived in Honolulu from his home village in Punjab, India at the age of 14. He labored in the sugarcane fields for about two months to earn enough money to continue on to California. On November 18, 1910, he arrived on Angel Island. At one point, Saund was the nation's largest celery grower.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46718759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46718759", "title": "Banking desert", "text": "Banking desert\n\nBanking desert is an area with inadequate banking services. Especially vulnerable to the issues associated with banking deserts are low-income residents and the elderly. If basic financial services are unavailable, residents become \"vulnerable to predatory lenders and pricey check cashers\". In the US, banking deserts are more often found in communities of color than they are elsewhere. Banking deserts had been mentioned as early as the 1870s, by Tullio Martello and Augusto Montanari in their book, \"Stato attuale del credito in Italia e notizie sulle istituzioni di credito straniere\", regarding Italian unification. The term had also been used to describe the situation in Newfoundland and Labrador during the period of 1993 to 2003, when the Canadian provinces had lost 23% of its bank branches.\n\n"}
{"id": "11358742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11358742", "title": "Beembe tribe (Kongo)", "text": "Beembe tribe (Kongo)\n\nThe Beembe are a Bantu people living in central southern Congo-Brazzaville, precisely in the upper Bouenza Basin. It is a Bakongo clan, to which its neighbours belong as well.\n\nBeembe society is economically based on agriculture.\n\nDecalo S., Thompson V. & Adloff R. 1984. \"Historical dictionary of Congo\" Pg 218-219. USA: The Scarecrow Press, Inc\n"}
{"id": "32665226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32665226", "title": "Biafada language", "text": "Biafada language\n\nBiafada is a Senegambian language of Guinea-Bissau.\n\nBiafada is heavily influenced by Mandinka. Variants on the name include \"Beafada, Bedfola, Biafar, Bidyola, Dfola, Fada\".\n"}
{"id": "51718353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51718353", "title": "Bisset Hawkins Medal", "text": "Bisset Hawkins Medal\n\nThe Bisset Hawkins Medal is a triennial award made by the Royal College of Physicians of London to acknowledge work done in the preceding ten years in advancing sanitary science or promoting public health. It is named after Dr Francis Bisset Hawkins (1796–1884), a distinguished London physician and is presented after the Harveian Oration.\n\nThe medal, made of gold, was endowed by Captain Edward Wilmot Williams in 1896.\n\nMedallists have been:\n\n"}
{"id": "56276011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56276011", "title": "Black Power movement in Montreal", "text": "Black Power movement in Montreal\n\nThe Black Power Movement in Montreal in the 1960s was a period of rediscovering black identity through a process of invoking cultural, economic, and political thought amongst blacks. The eruption of political activism during Montreal's Quiet Revolution as well as the reformation of immigration policies which discriminated against non-white immigrants allowed black communities to publicly express and bring awareness to their struggles with racism. The movement was an integral component of the emerging global challenges to imperialism during the 1960s and it stemmed from various movements including Garveyism, pan-Africanism, the Harlem Renaissance, Rastafari, and others. Montreal's Black Power movement culminated in the aftermath of the Sir George Williams Affair—a student occupation that resulted in an estimated $2 million worth of damages and 97 arrests—which raised concerns of racism worldwide.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, Montreal blacks primarily lived in the Saint Antoine district, where they were socially excluded and later on evicted to facilitate urban development, forcing them to disperse to other regions of Montreal. Structural racism was prevalent during the turn of the century and prevented Montreal blacks from obtaining respectable work or adequate housing. Montreal's black community fought racial discrimination through the creation of various social groups such as the Union United Church (UUC) and the Negro Community Centre (NCC) in 1927. The UUC was originally called the Union Congregational Church of Montreal (UCCM). Founded by American-born railway porters in 1907, the UCCM was a response to the racial discrimination the railway porters had faced at White churches. The UCCM provided the Black community with a space to worship freely without discrimination, and in 1925 the name was changed to the UUC. Led by Reverend Charles Este, the UUC sought to improve the social conditions for the black community through leadership and development. In 1927, clergy members of the UUC founded the NCC, a charitable organisation that also sought to improve the social conditions for the black community. The NCC became a staple in Montreal's black community and contributed to the fight against racial discrimination by promoting black employment, hosting educational programs, and looking after the youth in the black community. After the Canadian government's removal of exclusionary immigration policies in the 1950s-1960s, which favoured non-white immigrants, Montreal's black population began to grow. This led to a large migration of West Indian and African blacks to Canada. These immigrants often came with job skills that advanced the economic standards for Montreal's black population. Despite these advancements, issues of racism and resistance from the black community against these issues persisted. Also, the internationally broadening language of dissent towards colonization during the 1960s sparked an increased sense of activism among black intellectuals because it was seen as an opportunity to be heard. This increased activism was rooted in the idea of Black Power, a slogan coined by Stokely Carmichael in 1966. During this period, a larger scale Black Power movement was also occurring in the United States. Black intellectuals in Montreal drew from the analyses of race and imperialism formulated by black intellectuals in the United States. The ideas of Malcolm X, Martin Luther king, and Stokely Carmichael inspired the Black Power movement in Montreal and the assassination of Martin Luther King sparked protest in Montreal. Locally in Montreal, many social groups expressing anti-colonial and anti-imperialist ideas formed during the Quiet Revolution. Among these groups were French Canadians, feminist groups, and workers rights groups. These various groups contributed to and borrowed from the circulating language of dissent in Montreal as well as internationally during this period. Montreal's Black Power Movement was one of the actors in the Quiet Revolution and the struggles experienced by blacks resonated with other groups during the time. Internationally, Montreal's Black Power movement was inspired by third world liberation struggles. The liberation of India in 1947, Ghana and Malaya in 1957, and Algeria from French colonialism in 1962 inspired anti-colonial ideas in Montreal. Also, The Cuban revolution inspired anti-colonial ideas in Montreal because Cuba's dissolution of trading ties with the United States demonstrated that a small nation could stand against a large imperial power. Black intellectuals linked institutional racism to imperial oppression and the Cuban revolution symbolized freedom from this oppression.\n\nThe Negro Citizenship Association (NCA) was founded in 1951 by Donald William Moore. The NCA was a civil rights organisation that initially opposed Canada's exclusionary immigration policies which favoured non-white immigrants. After World War II, Britain encouraged Caribbean immigration to aid post-war recovery, however this inflow was restricted in the 1950s. Britain's tightening of immigration policies resulted in the Caribbean government urging Canada to allow Caribbean immigrants into the country. The NCA worked with the Caribbean government to publicly reveal and change Canada's exclusionary immigration policies. This united effort led to the West Indian Domestic scheme, which provided Caribbean females with the opportunity to apply for temporary or permanent residency in Canada after a year of domestic work. Canada's exclusionary immigration policy continued to unravel and eventually became a point system in the Immigration Act, 1967. By the 1960s, black activism was becoming more vocal in Montreal and the black community was beginning to take a stronger stand against racism. The influx of Caribbean students following the shift in immigration policies introduced anti-colonial ideas into Montreal's black community. These new ideas sometimes clashed with the more civil ideas of the established black community. By 1965, the NCA was beginning to take action against racism through their journal \"Expression.\" \"Expression\" typically published controversial, assertive articles advocating for the black community and denouncing racism. \"Expression\" also sought a strengthening of anti-discrimination legislation in Montreal. Following the assassination of Martin Luther King in 1968, \"Expression\" published an article advocating for violence in black activism onwards.\n\nThe Caribbean Conference Committee (CCC) was formed in 1965 by a group of Caribbean immigrants who sought to provide a platform for intellectuals to discuss anti-colonial ideas and formulate political as well as social change. Many Caribbean immigrants intended to return to the Caribbean and become politically active after earning an education, funds, or both in Canada. The common aspiration to fight colonialism in the Caribbean inspired a group of Caribbean men and women to form the CCC. Among this group were Alfie Roberts, Rosie Douglas, and Anne Cools. The committee held multiple conferences that featured influential activists from around the globe such as George Lamming and C.L.R James. The committee discussed and formulated political and social change in the Caribbean, which consequently inspired ideas of change in the local setting of Montreal. The Caribbean Conference Committee separated in 1967 when some members dispersed, however the name of the organisation was changed to the Canadian Conference Committee (CCC) which represented a shift in Caribbean focus to Canada as their home. Caribbean students became less concerned with Caribbean decolonization and more interested in domestic racial issues. In 1968, the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. resulted in a turn to radicalism for some black activists. King advocated for unity amongst all races, however some black activists began to see violence and separation from Whites as the only solution to racial issues in the wake of his death, resulting in a shift to the Black Power movement. Montreal's black population voiced their rage through protests as well as two conferences. The first conference was a three-day event from October 4 to 6, 1968, held at Sir George Williams University. The conference was organized by black activists seeking racial equality through civil means. Inspired by the Caribbean Conference Committee and titled the \"Black People in Canada Conference\", It addressed the local, daily concerns of Montreal's black population and featured Howard McCurdy, a professor at the University of Windsor, who emphasized the importance for blacks to understand their identity and have a voice. The conference also sought to reconcile class divide and conflict amongst Montreal Blacks, particularly between the Caribbean immigrants and established black Canadians. The second conference was a four-day event from October 11 to 14, 1968, held at McGill and it was titled \"The Congress of Black Writers\". The most prominent speech at this event was Stokely Carmichael's, which amassed a crowd of over 2000 people and was centered around Black Power as well as the idea that blacks should liberate themselves internationally through revolution. Carmichael asserted that revolution was necessary to rebuild the social system that had previously oppressed blacks internationally through slavery and colonization. The majority of the attendance at this second committee was of a younger demographic and the radical ideas expressed conflicted with the more civil ideas of the \"Black People in Canada Conference\".\n\nMontreal's Black Power Movement culminated with the Sir George Williams Affair which ended on February 11, 1969. In response to the Sir George William's University committee's failure to act on six accusations of racially prejudiced grading against Professor Perry Anderson, roughly 200 demonstrators—mostly White—peacefully occupied the computer centre at the school. After 14 days, negotiations went astray and the occupation ended in a fire, roughly $2 million in damages and 97 arrests. The student occupation was the manifestation of the Black Power movement in Montreal and an international display of the daily adversities and discrimination faced by the black community. Among the occupants arrested were Rosie Douglas and Anne Cools, who were seen as the leaders of the occupation by authorities. Other occupants lost employment opportunities in Canada, and some had to migrate back to the Caribbean without completing their education. While the fire occurred, some White spectators chanted \"Let the niggers burn.\" In a 1971 McGill Free Press article, Tim Hector denounced the priority given to the damaged computers over the students lives. Nonetheless, Hector also recognized the occupation as a declaration of black presence in Montreal society. Although many Anglophone students refused to support the protestors after the computer damages the protestors began to receive support from some francophone groups. The Confédération des syndicats nationaux (CSN), Montreal's second largest labour union, criticized the media for focusing on the material losses of the occupation instead of the racial issues in Canada. Francophone intellectuals had previously neglected the black community in Montreal, however the events of the occupation changed their views on race in the city. The Sir George Williams Affair brought the black community closer together and in October 1969, members of Montreal's black community occupied the Queen Elizabeth Hotel during an African Studies Association (ASA) session with the Canadian African Studies Association. Many of these occupants had participated in the Sir George Williams Affair and they teamed up with the African Heritage Studies Association, founded by John Henrik Clarke, to denounce the lack of Black representation within the ASA. This occupation was a demonstration of the increased militancy within the Black community sparked by the Sir George Williams Affair. Also, the occupation inspired the creation of the Thursday Night Rally within the black community. The Thursday Night Rally was a weekly meeting initially created to discuss news concerning the arrests of the Sir George Williams Affair. The meetings grew and eventually became a platform for communal discussions on racism in Montreal. The meetings would often feature historian Roy States, screen films about the Black struggle, and discuss Africa as well as South America.\n\nThe inaction of the university committee and the outcome of the Sir George Williams occupation publicly displayed the racial tensions in Canada. In Montreal, the Sir George Williams affair revealed the covert racism in Canadian society and brought the Black community closer together. Although francophone intellectuals had previously ignored Montreal's black population, they showed support for the black community after the events and denounced institutional racism. The events inspired black activists to begin challenging imperialism through the entire community rather than solely through the university system. New organizations were formed such as the Black Coalition of Quebec, a Human Rights organization. The black community also created a controversial newspaper titled \"Uhuru,\" which became a venue for black activism and recognized the colonization of blacks as well as other groups. The events of the Sir George William occupation also sparked anger in the Caribbean, where Roland Michener was denied entrance into the University of the West Indies on his \"Good-will tour\" in 1969. The arrest of 10 Trinidadian students during the occupation sparked protest in the West Indies, and the protests eventually transformed into demonstrations against the government and began a Black Power movement in Trinidad. Following these events, Trinidad's local military nearly deposed the government. Alfie Roberts, a black intellectual, believed the occupation affirmed the presence of blacks in Montreal and corresponded with the local labour unrest of the 1960s The Sir George Williams occupation triggered a Black Renaissance in Montreal and demonstrated the black communities refusal of continued discrimination.\n\nSimilar to other social movements during the Quiet Revolution, Montreal's Black Power movement had its own contradictions. The Black Power movement drew on an idea of black masculinity, which was militant and exclusionary. At \"The Congress of Black Writers,\" Stokely Carmichael advocated for political change through violence, which received mixed reactions from members of the black community. Also, the movement used gendered language which excluded women. Defined as a \"struggle for manhood,\" the Black Power movement was a call to black men and ignored the role of women. Black women felt the movement was hypocritical and devalued them- some believing they were oppressed by black men just as black men were oppressed by Whites.\n"}
{"id": "52164444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52164444", "title": "CLEAPSS", "text": "CLEAPSS\n\nCLEAPSS is an advisory service providing support in science and technology for a consortium of local authorities and their schools including establishments for pupils with special needs.\n\nIndependent schools, post-16 colleges, teacher training establishments, curriculum developers and others can apply for associate membership. CLEAPSS offers help from nursery education through to A-level studies or equivalent.\n\nCLEAPSS first started in 1963 as CLEAPSE (Consortium of Local Education Authorities for the Provision of Science Equipment). In 1988 the name was changed to CLEAPSS (Consortium of Local Education Authorities for the Provision of Science Services) to reflect a change of emphasis from equipment to a range of services. Since then, Local Education Authorities became Local Authorities (LAs) and CLEAPSS' services expanded to include D&T, so CLEAPSS was registered as a Trade Mark. CLEAPSS is now simply a name and not an acronym.\n\nCLEAPSS is based at the Brunel University Science Park in Uxbridge.\n\nCLEAPSS serves:\n\n\nCLEAPSS covers:\n\n\nCLEAPSS provides support for a consortium of local authorities. It is controlled by its members, which currently include all LAs throughout the British Isles (not Scotland) (100% of those eligible).\n\nCLEAPSS has around 2,000 associate members, i.e.:\n\n\nCLEAPSS provides:\n\n"}
{"id": "47095997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47095997", "title": "Census in Myanmar", "text": "Census in Myanmar\n\nThe Burmese census is an official count of the human population in Burma (Myanmar).\n\nThe earliest census on record in Burmese history was taken in 1359 in the Pinya Kingdom. The first nationwide census was taken in 1638, and it was followed by two other nationwide censuses in 1784 and 1803. The first modern census was taken in 1891 in the British colonial period. It was carried out in 10-year intervals until 1941. In the post-independence area, the census has been conducted 3 times, in 1973, 1983, and 2014.\n\nThe last census was conducted by the Ministry of Immigration and Population's Department of Population, and was funded by Western donors, at a cost of , and supervised by the United Nations Population Fund.\n"}
{"id": "7090224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7090224", "title": "Chichimeca Jonaz", "text": "Chichimeca Jonaz\n\nThe Chichimeca Jonaz are an indigenous people of Mexico, living in the states of Guanajuato and San Luis Potosí. In Guanajuato, the Chichimeca Jonaz people live in a community in San Luis de la Paz municipality. The settlement is 2,070 m above sea level. They call this place \"Rancho Úza\" or \"Misión Chichimeca\". They are descendants of the Pame people, who fought in the Chichimeca War (1550-1590) in the Chichimeca Confederation. \n\nIn the 2000 General Census by INEGI 2,641 people named themselves as speakers of the Chichimeca Jonaz language. Of these 1,433 speakers lived in Guanajuato, and the other 115 in San Luis Potosí.\n\nTheir language belongs to the Pamean sub-branch of the Oto-Pamean branch of the Oto-Manguean language family, the closest relative of the Chichimeca Jonaz language is the Pame language.\n\nDuring the ensuing Spanish colonization of the Americas, the Chichimecas Jonaz descendants, whom are the Pame nation, joined the Chichimeca Confederation to fight against the Spanish Empire in the Chichimeca War. The Chichimeca Confederation defeated the Spanish Empire in this forty-year war. The Chichimeca War was the longest lasting and most expensive military conflict to Spain in the history of the Spanish colonization of the Americas.\n\n"}
{"id": "48776723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48776723", "title": "Child labor in Bolivia", "text": "Child labor in Bolivia\n\nChild labor in Bolivia is a widespread phenomenon. A 2014 document on the worst forms of child labor released by the U.S. Department of Labor estimated that approximately 20.2% of children between the ages of 7 and 14, or 388,541 children make up the labor force in Bolivia. Indigenous children are more likely to be engaged in labor than children who reside in urban areas. The activities of child laborers are diverse, however the majority of child laborers are involved in agricultural labor, and this activity varies between urban and rural areas. Bolivia has ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child in 1990. Bolivia has also ratified the International Labour Organization’s Minimum Age Convention, 1973 (138) and the ILO’s worst forms of child labor convention (182). In July 2014, the Bolivian government passed the new child and adolescent code, which lowered the minimum working age to ten years old given certain working conditions The new code stipulates that children between the ages of ten and twelve can legally work given they are self-employed while children between 12 and 14 may work as contracted laborers as long as their work does not interfere with their education and they work under parental supervision.\n\nThe International Labour Organization defines child labor as work that “deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity and that is harmful to their mental and physical development.” \n\nUNICEF defines children as engaging in child labor as those between the ages of 5 and 11 who participate in one hour of economic activity or 28 hours of domestic activity a week, and those between 12 and 14 who participate in at least 14 hours of economic activity or 28 hours of domestic work a week.\n\nA large percentage of child laborers, about 70.9% are employed in the agricultural sector, working in activities such as planting and harvesting corn, working on cattle ranches, and planting and harvesting chestnuts and sugarcane. In rural areas children begin working at a young age, and participate in activities on small-scale farms and on medium and large plantations doing activities such as sowing, harvesting, weeding and taking care of cattle. Children who work in subsistence agriculture are exposed to harmful chemicals and are obligated to work for long hours, which reduces their ability to receive an education Work on plantations is more difficult than work on small-scale farms, and children are exposed to more pesticides and hazardous working conditions which may result in infections and physical injuries from use of farm equipment. Mining in Bolivia is a common activity carried out by child laborers in rural areas, and the ILO has estimated that around 13,500 children are involved in mining. Work in mines is divided along age and gender lines, with girls and younger children involved in less dangerous work such as washing clothes and searching for minerals outside of mining sites while only boys work in actual mines in more dangerous work involving use of explosives and the grinding of minerals In urban areas, children are involved in agriculture but are mainly involved in jobs in industry and service which include domestic labor, woodwork, vending and prostitution. Work in urban areas is divided along gender lines with girls mostly carrying out jobs in markets or in domestic labor while boys do more physically strenuous labor in construction sites or working in garages, and children who work in domestic labor and on the streets are more susceptible to physical, verbal and sexual abuse as there is little protection for these children. Children involved in the worst forms of child labor such as mining, child prostitution and strenuous plantation work live in deplorable living conditions and have limited access to sanitary water, and good healthcare .\n\nBolivia is one of the poorest countries in South America, with 45% of its population living below the poverty line. Poverty is a major cause of child labor in Bolivia, and children from poor families work in order to support the well-being of their families and to supply their basic needs of survival. Low living standards combined with low educational attainment increases poverty rates and the prevalence of child labor. UNICEF reports that a family’s access to financial credit influences the likelihood of children working, as greater access to financial credit reduces the chances of children working, and of children working in more dangerous occupations.\n\nLack of access to an education is a major cause and consequence of child labor. A study carried out by Jiménez and Vera concerning disparities in educational attainment in Bolivia found that a gap exists between urban and rural areas, with children in urban areas having a higher rate of primary education completion and access to an education. The ILO reports that the percentage of children who are not enrolled in school is 2.5%, with a higher percentage of rural children being out of school. A study carried out by Zapata, Contreras and Kruger (2011) found that gender and ethnicity plays a role in the relationship between child labor and educational attainment in Bolivia. They found that girls are 51% more likely to not be enrolled in school and to be working, mostly in domestic occupations, and indigenous children are 60% more likely to not be enrolled in school and to be working. Access to high quality education can be very limited, as is the number of secondary schools available to students especially in rural areas. The educational attainment of parents influences the likelihood of children working, and the higher the level of educational attainment of parents, the lesser the likelihood of children participating in economic activities. Parents with lower educational attainment were likely child laborers themselves and value working more highly than receiving an education. The high cost of education for poor families results in the decision to have their children participate in the labor force \n\nThe causes of child labor are not only to economic depravity but also to cultural reasons. In Andean culture, work is seen as an important agent of socialization for children as it is an integral part of their inclusion into the wider community, and it enables them to learn traditional societal values . Work is important to the social organization of indigenous communities, where children work in order to contribute to the cohesiveness of family units and while the whole community works together to protect children The cultural cause of child labor is related to definitions of children and childhood. Western concepts of childhood define children as vulnerable and helpless and lead to attempts to abolish child labor in order to protect children. According to Hanson and Vandaele (2003), child laborers disagree with the Western perspective of childhood and claim their right to work in dignity as social agents in society \n\nIn the UNICEF Bolivia country program (2013-2017), they have pledged to increase technical support to management and monitoring systems social services that protect children from abuse and sexual exploitation. The program seeks to improve overall children’s overall access to social services and to protest children’s rights.\n\nThe ILO’s International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labor (IPEC) works in Bolivia to combat child labor through promotion of equitable access to education through research and statistics on the impact of child labor on educational attainment and monitoring of the worst forms of child labor.\n\nThe Bolivian Ministry of Education has undertaken initiatives to improve the educational attainment of child laborers including an \"accelerated leveling program\" for child laborers who are behind in school.\n"}
{"id": "4715998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4715998", "title": "Competition (biology)", "text": "Competition (biology)\n\nCompetition is an interaction between organisms or species in which both the organisms or species are harmed. Limited supply of at least one resource (such as food, water, and territory) used by both can be a factor. Competition both within and between species is an important topic in ecology, especially community ecology. Competition is one of many interacting biotic and abiotic factors that affect community structure. Competition among members of the same species is known as intraspecific competition, while competition between individuals of different species is known as interspecific competition. Competition is not always straightforward, and can occur in both a direct and indirect fashion. \n\nAccording to the competitive exclusion principle, species less suited to compete for resources should either adapt or die out, although competitive exclusion is rarely found in natural ecosystems. According to evolutionary theory, this competition within and between species for resources is important in natural selection. However, competition may play less of a role than expansion among larger clades; this is termed the 'Room to Roam' hypothesis.\n\nCompetition occurs by various mechanisms, which can generally be divided into direct and indirect. These apply equally to intraspecific and interspecific competition. Biologists typically recognize two types of competition: interference and exploitative competition. During interference competition, organisms interact directly by fighting for scarce resources. For example, large aphids defend feeding sites on cottonwood leaves by ejecting smaller aphids from better sites. In contrast, during exploitative competition, organisms interact indirectly by consuming scarce resources. For example, plants consume nitrogen by absorbing it into their roots, making nitrogen unavailable to nearby plants. Plants that produce many roots typically reduce soil nitrogen to very low levels, eventually killing neighboring plants.\n\nInterference competition occurs directly between individuals via aggression etc. when the individuals interfere with foraging, survival, reproduction of others, or by directly preventing their physical establishment in a portion of the habitat. An example of this can be seen between the ant \"Novomessor cockerelli\" and red harvester ants, where the former interferes with the ability of the latter to forage by plugging the entrances to their colonies with small rocks.\n\nExploitation competition occurs indirectly through a common limiting resource which acts as an intermediate. For example, use of resources depletes the amount available to others, or they compete for space.\n\nApparent competition occurs indirectly between two species which are both preyed upon by the same predator. For example, species A and species B are both prey of predator C. The increase of species A may cause the decrease of species B, because the increase of As may aid in the survival of predator Cs, which will increase the number of predator Cs, which in turn will hunt more of species B.\n\nCompetition varies from complete symmetric (all individuals receive the same amount of resources, irrespective of their size) to perfectly size symmetric (all individuals exploit the same amount of resource per unit biomass) to absolutely size-asymmetric (the largest individuals exploit all the available resource). The degree of size asymmetry has major effects on the structure and diversity of ecological communities, e.g. in plant communities size-asymmetric competition for light has stronger effects on diversity compared with competition for soil resources.\n\nCompetition can occur between individuals of the same species, called intraspecific competition, or between different species, called interspecific competition. Studies show that intraspecific competition can regulate population dynamics (changes in population size over time). This occurs because individuals become crowded as a population grows. Since individuals within a population require the same resources, crowding causes resources to become more limited. Some individuals (typically small juveniles) eventually do not acquire enough resources and die or do not reproduce. This reduces population size and slows population growth.\n\nSpecies also interact with other species that require the same resources. Consequently, interspecific competition can alter the sizes of many species' populations at the same time. Experiments demonstrate that when species compete for a limited resource, one species eventually drives the populations of other species extinct. These experiments suggest that competing species cannot coexist (they cannot live together in the same area) because the best competitor will exclude all other competing species.\n\nIntraspecific competition occurs when members of the same species compete for the same resources in an ecosystem.\n\nInterspecific competition may occur when individuals of two separate species share a limiting resource in the same area. If the resource cannot support both populations, then lowered fecundity, growth, or survival may result in at least one species. Interspecific competition has the potential to alter populations, communities and the evolution of interacting species. An example among animals could be the case of cheetahs and lions; since both species feed on similar prey, they are negatively impacted by the presence of the other because they will have less food, however they still persist together, despite the prediction that under competition one will displace the other. In fact, lions sometimes steal prey items killed by cheetahs. Potential competitors can also kill each other, in so-called 'intraguild predation'. For example, in southern California coyotes often kill and eat gray foxes and bobcats, all three carnivores sharing the same stable prey (small mammals).\n\nAn example among protozoa involves \"Paramecium aurelia\" and \"Paramecium caudatum.\" Russian ecologist, Georgy Gause, studied the competition between the two species of \"Paramecium\" that occurred as a result of their coexistence. Through his studies, Gause proposed the Competitive exclusion principle, observing the competition that occurred when their different ecological niches overlapped.\n\nCompetition has been observed between individuals, populations and species, but there is little evidence that competition has been the driving force in the evolution of large groups. For example, mammals lived beside reptiles for many millions of years of time but were unable to gain a competitive edge until dinosaurs were devastated by the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.\n\nIn evolutionary contexts, competition is related to the concept of r/K selection theory, which relates to the selection of traits which promote success in particular environments. The theory originates from work on island biogeography by the ecologists Robert MacArthur and E. O. Wilson.\n\nIn r/K selection theory, selective pressures are hypothesised to drive evolution in one of two stereotyped directions: \"r\"- or \"K\"-selection. These terms, r and K, are derived from standard ecological algebra, as illustrated in the simple Verhulst equation of population dynamics:\n\nwhere \"r\" is the growth rate of the population (\"N\"), and \"K\" is the carrying capacity of its local environmental setting. Typically, r-selected species exploit empty niches, and produce many offspring, each of whom has a relatively low probability of surviving to adulthood. In contrast, K-selected species are strong competitors in crowded niches, and invest more heavily in much fewer offspring, each with a relatively high probability of surviving to adulthood.\n\nTo explain how species coexist, in 1934 Georgii Gause proposed the competitive exclusion principle which is also called the Gause principle: species cannot coexist if they have the same ecological niche. The word \"niche\" refers to a species' requirements for survival and reproduction. These requirements include both resources (like food) and proper habitat conditions (like temperature or pH). Gause reasoned that if two species had identical niches (required identical resources and habitats) they would attempt to live in exactly the same area and would compete for exactly the same resources. If this happened, the species that was the best competitor would always exclude its competitors from that area. Therefore, species must at least have slightly different niches in order to coexist.\n\nCompetition can cause species to evolve differences in traits. This occurs because the individuals of a species with traits similar to competing species always experience strong interspecific competition. These individuals have less reproduction and survival than individuals with traits that differ from their competitors. Consequently, they will not contribute many offspring to future generations. For example, Darwin's finches can be found alone or together on the Galapagos Islands. Both species' populations actually have more individuals with intermediate-sized beaks when they live on islands without the other species present. However, when both species are present on the same island, competition is intense between individuals that have intermediate-sized beaks of both species because they all require intermediate sized seeds. Consequently, individuals with small and large beaks have greater survival and reproduction on these islands than individuals with intermediate-sized beaks. Different finch species can coexist if they have traits—for instance, beak size—that allow them to specialize on particular resources. When \"Geospiza fortis\" and \"Geospiza fuliginosa\" are present on the same island, \"G. fuliginosa\" tends to evolve a small beak and \"G. fortis\" a large beak. The observation that competing species' traits are more different when they live in the same area than when competing species live in different areas is called character displacement. For the two finch species, beak size was displaced: Beaks became smaller in one species and larger in the other species. Studies of character displacement are important because they provide evidence that competition is important in determining ecological and evolutionary patterns in nature.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "196470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196470", "title": "Count", "text": "Count\n\nCount (Male) or Countess (Female) is a title in European countries for a noble of varying status, but historically deemed to convey an approximate rank intermediate between the highest and lowest titles of nobility. The word \"count\" came into English from the French \"comte\", itself from Latin \"comes\"—in its accusative \"comitem\"—meaning “companion”, and later “companion of the emperor, delegate of the emperor”. The adjective form of the word is \"\". The British and Irish equivalent is an earl (whose wife is a \"countess\", for lack of an English term). Equivalents of the rank of count exist or have existed in the nobility structures in various non-European countries, such as \"hakushaku\" during the Japanese Imperial era.\n\nIn the late Roman Empire, the Latin title \"comes\", meaning (imperial) \"companion\", denoted the high rank of various courtiers and provincial officials, either military or administrative: before Anthemius became emperor in the West in 467, he was military \"comes\" charged with strengthening defenses on the Danube frontier.\n\nIn the Western Roman Empire, Count came to indicate generically a military commander but was not a specific rank. In the Eastern Roman Empire, from about the seventh century, \"count\" was a specific rank indicating the commander of two centuries (i.e., 200 men).\n\nMilitary counts in the Late Empire and the Germanic successor kingdoms were often appointed by a \"dux\" and later by a king. From the start the count was not in charge of a roving warband, but settled in a locality, known as a county; his main rival for power was the bishop, whose diocese was sometimes coterminous with the county.\n\nIn many Germanic and Frankish kingdoms in the early Middle Ages, a count might also be a count palatine, whose authority derived directly from the royal household, the \"palace\" in its original sense of the seat of power and administration. This other kind of count had vague antecedents in Late Antiquity too: the father of Cassiodorus held positions of trust with Theodoric, as \"comes rerum privatarum\", in charge of the imperial lands, then as \"comes sacrarum largitionum\" (\"count of the sacred doles\"), concerned with the finances of the realm.\n\nThe position of \"comes\" was originally not hereditary. By virtue of their large estates, many counts could pass the title to their heirs—but not always. For instance, in Piast Poland, the position of \"komes\" was not hereditary, resembling the early Merovingian institution. The title had disappeared by the era of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, and the office had been replaced by others. Only after the Partitions of Poland did the title of \"count\" resurface in the title \"hrabia\", derived from the German \"Graf\".\n\nThe title of Count was also often conferred by the monarch as an honorific title for special services rendered, without a feudal estate (countship, county) being attached, so it was merely a title, with or without a domain name attached to it. In the United Kingdom, the equivalent \"Earl\" can also be used as a courtesy title for the eldest son of a duke or marquess. In Italy, by contrast, all the sons of certain counts were counts (\"contini\"). In Sweden there is a distinction between counts (Swedish: \"greve\") created before and after 1809. All children in comital families elevated before 1809 are called count/countess. In families elevated after 1809, only the head of the family is called count, the rest had a status similar to barons and were called by the equivalent of Mr/Ms/Mrs, before the recognition of titles of nobility was abolished.\n\nThe following lists are originally based on a Glossary on Heraldica.org by Alexander Krischnig. The male form is followed by the female, and when available, by the territorial circumscription.\n\nApart from all these, a few unusual titles have been of comital rank, not necessarily to remain there.\n\nSince Louis VII (1137–80), the highest precedence amongst the vassals (Prince-bishops and secular nobility) of the French crown was enjoyed by those whose benefice or temporal fief was a \"pairie\", i.e. carried the exclusive rank of \"pair\"; within the first (i.e. clerical) and second (noble) estates, the first three of the original twelve \"anciennes pairies\" were ducal, the next three comital \"comté-pairies\":\nLater other countships (and duchies, even baronies) have been raised to this French peerage, but mostly as apanages (for members of the royal house) or for foreigners; after the 16th century all new peerages were always duchies and the medieval countship-peerages had died out, or were held by royal princes\n\nOther French countships of note included those of:\n\n\n\"See also above for parts of present France\"\n\nA \"Graf\" ruled over a territory known as a Grafschaft ('county'). See also various comital and related titles; especially those actually reigning over a principality: Gefürsteter Graf, Landgraf, Reichsgraf; compare Markgraf, Pfalzgraf\n\nThe title of \"Conte\" is very prolific on the peninsula. In the eleventh century, \"Conti\" like the Count of Savoy or the Norman Count of Apulia, were virtually sovereign lords of broad territories. Even apparently \"lower\"-sounding titles, like Viscount, could describe powerful dynasts, such as the House of Visconti which ruled a major city such as Milan. The essential title of a feudatory, introduced by the Normans, was \"signore\", modeled on the French \"seigneur\", used with the name of the fief. By the fourteenth century, \"conte\" and the Imperial title \"barone\" were virtually synonymous.\n\nSome titles of a count, according to the particulars of the patent, might be inherited by the eldest son of a Count. Younger brothers might be distinguished as \"X dei conti di Y\" (\"X of the counts of Y\"). However, if there is no male to inherit the title and the count has a daughter, in some regions she could inherit the title. The Papacy and the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies might appoint counts palatine with no particular territorial fief. Until 1812 in some regions, the purchaser of land designated \"feudal\" was ennobled by the noble seat that he held and became a \"conte\". This practice ceased with the formal abolition of feudalism in the various principalities of early-19th century Italy, last of all in the Papal States.\n\nMany Italian counts left their mark on Italian history as individuals, yet only a few \"contadi\" (countships; the word \"contadini\" for inhabitants of a \"county\" remains the Italian word for \"peasant\") were politically significant principalities, notably:\n\nCount/Countess is one of the noble titles granted by the Pope as a temporal sovereign, and the title's holder is sometimes informally known as a papal count/papal countess or less so as a Roman count/Roman countess, but mostly as count/countess. The comital title, which can be for life or hereditary, has been awarded in various forms by popes and Holy Roman Emperors since the Middle Ages, infrequently before the 14th century, and the pope continued to grant the comital and other noble titles even after 1870 and, although rarely, into the present day.\n\nThe principalities tended to start out as margraviate or (promoted to) duchy, and became nominal archduchies within the Habsburg dynasty; noteworthy are:\n\nNumerous small ones, particularly:\n\nApart from various small ones, significant were :\n\n\nAs opposed to the plethora of hollow \"gentry\" counts, only a few countships ever were important in medieval Iberia; most territory was firmly within the Reconquista kingdoms before counts could become important. However, during the 19th century, the title, having lost its high rank (equivalent to that of Duke), proliferated.\n\nPortugal itself started as a countship in 868, but became a kingdom in 1139 (see:\"County of Portugal\"). Throughout the History of Portugal, especially during the Constitutional Monarchy many other countships were created (see: \"List of Countships in Portugal\").\n\nIn Spain, no countships of wider importance exist, except in the former Spanish march.\n\nIn the First Bulgarian Empire, a komit was a hereditary provincial ruler under the tsar documented since the reign of Presian (836-852) The Cometopouli dynasty was named after its founder, the komit of Sredets.\n\nThe title of Count (Serdar) was used in the Principality of Montenegro and the Principality of Serbia as a lesser noble title below that of Vojvoda (Duke).\n\n\nIn Denmark and historically in Denmark-Norway the title of count (\"greve\") is the highest rank of nobility used in the modern period. Some Danish/Dano-Norwegian countships were associated with fiefs, and these counts were known as \"feudal counts\" (\"lensgreve\"). They rank above ordinary (titular) counts, and their position in the Danish aristocracy as the highest-ranking noblemen is broadly comparable to that of Duke in other European countries. The title of count is in modern times only granted to members of the Danish royal family, sometimes in addition to a princely title and sometimes instead of it.\n\nIn the middle ages the title of jarl (earl) was the highest title of nobility. The title was eventually replaced by the title of duke, but that title was abolished in Denmark and Norway already in the middle ages. Titles were only reintroduced with the introduction of absolute monarchy in 1660, with count as the highest title.\n\nIn Sweden the rank of count is the highest rank conferred upon nobles in the modern era. Unlike the rest of Scandinavia, the title of duke is still used in the country, but only by members of the royal family.\n\nLike other major Western noble titles, Count is sometimes used to render certain titles in non-western languages with their own traditions, even though they are as a rule historically unrelated and thus hard to compare, but which are considered \"equivalent\" in rank.\n\nThis is the case with:\n\n\nThe title \"Count\" in fiction is commonly given to evil characters or vampires:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15556664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15556664", "title": "Crime in Israel", "text": "Crime in Israel\n\nCrime in Israel is low on a par with Norway and Germany, but includes drug trafficking, arms trafficking, burglary, car theft, human trafficking, etc.\n\nOrganized crime has increased in Israel since the 1990s and is described by the BBC and the Israeli Police as a \"booming industry\". The Israeli organised crime groups have extended their activities in foreign countries like the United States, South Africa, and the Netherlands. According to a report by the Israel Police, drug trafficking, trafficking of women for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation, illicit gambling, pirate filling stations and real estate are the major forms of crime in the country.\n\nIn 2002, the Israel Police documented 464,854 criminal files and non-prosecution cases while the number was 484,688 in 2003. This was an increase of 4.5% over 2002.\n\nDirector of the Latin American Institute of the American Jewish Committee in Washington, D.C. Dina Siegel, criminology professor H. G. van de Bunt, and lecturer in criminology Damián Zaitch showed in their book \"Global Organized Crime\" that a significant amount of crime in Israel, especially property crime, is committed by the residents of the Palestinian National Authority (PNA or PA). Motor vehicle theft is a major crime committed by Palestinians. Since the early 1990s, there has been an increase in the rate of robberies in Israel. Between 1994 and 2001, the rate of robberies increased from 14.0 to 30.6 cases per 100,000 population. The reason behind this increase in robberies is analyzed as a result of the establishment of the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank and Gaza Strip which according to the book \"Global Organized Crime\" \"serves as a safe haven for Palestinian offenders\". However, the organized crime industry associated with motor vehicle theft involves not only Palestinians, but also Israeli citizens, both Jewish and Arab. The parts of the stolen cars are removed in \"chop shops\" in the Palestinian territories and then these vehicles are sold in the black market in Israel. Media reports suggest some of these vehicles are even handed over to high-ranking Palestinian Authority officials. It was reported that since the beginning of 2010 through the end of February 2010, the Palestinian Authority police have destroyed 910 stolen cars.\n\nAlthough Palestinian criminals are involved in organized crime in the country, Siegel et al. suggested one should not conclude that \"organized crime in Israel is dominated by Palestinians. Organized crime committed by Jews or other non-Palestinians has been part of the Israeli crime scene for many years\". \n\nArms trafficking is another form of crime and it is directly associated with terrorism. There are many links between Israeli and Palestinian gangsters that facilitate these ventures.\n\nAccording to official data Only about a quarter of the prisoners held in Israeli jails are Jews.(According to Israel Prison Service) 73 percent of overall prisoners are non-Jews Security prisoners and Criminal prisoners together. The number of Ethiopian-Israeli Jews minors imprisoned in Ofek Prison is approximately 20%, 27 out of 135 Minors prisoners and 27 out of 65 Jews prisoners in this prison (The only Criminal prison for minors in Israel). Substantially overrepresented, considering the Ethiopian Jews make up only 2% of the Israeli population.\n\nViolence against minors is also a problem in Israel. In 1999, approximately 7,000 cases of crimes against minors were documented which included physical assault (54%), molestation (37%) and repeated physical victimization (9%). However, Israeli minors are not solely the victims of crime, they are also sometimes the perpetrators. Teenage violence in schools is a problem in Israel; the first major study on teenage crime in the nation by T. Horowitz and M. Amir in 1981 indicated three major forms of violence in Israeli schools: theft, breaking and entering, and vandalism. Studies have suggested that Israeli Arab youth are more violent than Jews in the country, a fact which academics attribute to cultural, social, and economic differences.\n\nIn Israel the homicide rate produced by criminal activities is relatively low: 2.4 killed per 100,000 inhabitants in a year (in Switzerland the number is 0.71, in Russia is 14.9, in South Africa is 34, in Venezuela is 49). In 2009, 135 people were murdered in Israel. Two major motivations for homicide in Israel are violence against women (including honor killings in Muslim families) and politically motivated violence, for example Arab terrorism against Israelis. The percentage of women killed by their partners who were Arab decreased from 9 out of 11 in 2009 to 10 out of 15 in 2010 and 11 out of 24 on 2011.\n\nRacist incidents, including violence, continue taking place between the Jewish majority and Arab minority. Arab-Jewish race riots have occurred on several occasions.\n\nIn September 2007, eight white supremacists sporting tattoos including the number 88 (code for Heil Hitler because \"H\" is the eighth letter of the alphabet) from Petah Tikva were arrested after a year of being observed desecrating synagogues, giving Nazi salutes in the street, attacking religious Jews, collecting weapons explosives and spreading Nazi propaganda and making a video. They were immigrants from Russia, and only one was fully Jewish. The rest had been allowed to immigrate due to some Jewish ancestry, but were not fully Jewish.\n\nAccording to Palestinian officials, between 2005 and 2015, there were 11,000 attacks on Palestinians by Jews in the West Bank and in east Jerusalem. Between 2010 and 2015, three Palestinians were killed in arson attacks. Arson attacks on property were reported for 15 individual houses, 20 mosques and 4 churches.\n\n"}
{"id": "51835801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51835801", "title": "Duna people", "text": "Duna people\n\nThe Duna are an indigenous people of Papua New Guinea (also known as \"Yuna\") who live in the north-western area of the Southern Highlands Province. They number approximately 11,000 (1991) or 25,000 (2002)\n\nDuna is the native language of the polysemically named Duna people. Their environment lies in a mountainous terrain with altitudes ranging from 400 to 3000 meters. With an even distribution of rainfall (4500mm annually) and temperatures (18.5 to 28 °C), the environment allows farming and some tree cultivation. This is why most Duna are substance farmers with sweet potatoes being the staple food, alongside other gardened fruit and vegetables. Furthermore, they keep domesticated pigs and trap fish in Lake Kopiago while also hunting smaller game such as possums, bats and smaller birds. The diet also includes gathered mushrooms, ferns and cresses.\n\nThe Duna are grouped in clans and parishes. Each member shares extensive responsibilities, requiring a substantial social effort for the group. Before the first direct contact with Europeans around the 1930s, their culture involved a strict separation of males and females. Early on, boys are separately raised and trained into manhood. Other significant themes of pre-contact life include ordered warfare, courting and the potency of ritual sacrifice. Since the establishment of a government station in the 1950s by Australia, the customs and traditions have undergone some significant changes, community schooling etc.\n\nThere is only little paid work available in the area and electricity or telecommunication networks are not regularly accessible. The region does have a large health centre near Kopiago and a community school up to 8th grade. The Highland Highway is part of the overland transport network, but it is intermittent and in poor condition, so that most traveling is done on foot. Flights go fairly regular weekly or twice-weekly to Kopiago.\n\n"}
{"id": "57994893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57994893", "title": "Erich Hauert", "text": "Erich Hauert\n\nErich Hauert (born 1959) is a Swiss serial killer and sex offender. He was sentenced to life imprisonment for three murders, and his case had a significant impact on the treatment of dangerous sexual offenders and their legal provisions in Switzerland.\n\nOn the afternoon of October 30, 1993, after a one-day operation on the Zollikerberg near Zürich, the body of the missing 20-year-old boy scout leader Pasquale Brumann was found. She had been stabbed in the neck and buried naked in the forest.\n\nAs early as November 1, 1993, Hauert, who was convicted of evelen rapes and two sexually-charged murders, was arrested and later confessed to the crime. DNA analysis also provided further evidence to this. The detainee at the Regensdorf Detention Center had committed the crime while out on parole.\n\nEarlier, Hauert had raped and murdered a 26-year-old jogger in Thalwil near Lake Zürich in 1982, and a 72-year-old woman in Kaiseraugst a year later. After he was arrested in June 1983 after an attempted robbery, he was proven guilty, classified as \"extremely dangerous\" and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nIn all the years he spent in prison Hauert's sentence had been loosened successively, as he behaved harmlessly and was given a few holiday leaves to no complains. On October 29, 1993, the Zürich Department of Justice approved another short leave for Hauert, and just a day later, he killed Brumann.\n\nIn September 1996, Hauert was again sentenced to life imprisonment and reprimanded of parole.\n\nThe mother of the murdered, Jeannette Brumann, filed a state lialibility suit against the canton, reaching up to the Federal Supreme Court. The canton denied any responsibility, but recognized in April 1997 the family's claims for \"moral reasons\". In 1998, it finally came to a comprehensive comparison. The canton of Zürich paid against the renunciation of the family to further civil claims about one million francs.\n\nThe trial against the four judicial staff involved in granting Hauert parole resulted in acquittals, and they received five digit process compensations.\n\nAfter the murder, the leave and discharge guidelines were tightened and the custody increased massively, reducing the number of relapses.\n\nIn response to the Brumann murder and another sex offence committed by another repeat offender, a popular initiative \"Lifelong custody for unreachable, extremely dangerous sexual and violent offenders\" was launched. This was submitted on May 3, 2000 with 194 390 valid signatures. On February 8, 2004, the initiative had the popular majority of 56.2 percent and the cantons of 21.5 accepted Act 123a in the Swiss Federal Constitution.\n\nTherefore, sex offenders and violent offenders classified as extremely dangerous and untreatable in the forensic reports prepared for trials must be jailed until the end of their lives and are excluded from parole and early release. New reports may only be prepared when new scientific evidence has proven that the custodian can be cured. All reports must be prepared by at least two independent and experienced professionals. If, on the basis of these new opinions, an offender is released from custody, the competent authority must take responsibility if the person dismissed relapses.\n\nThe judiciary as the director of the Zürich Conseil d'État at the time of cantonal corrections charge, later Swiss Federal Councilor, Moritz Leuenberger, was made politically responsible for the death of Pasquale Brumann. He had been repeatedly informed by the competent state's attorney Pius Schmid on Hauert's dangerousness, but did not take the appropriate measures. In the report on the question of granting parole for Erich Hauert he had been warned that Hauert suffered from \"psychopathic disturbances of the character structure\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12068015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12068015", "title": "Ethnic, cultural and religious groups of Bahrain", "text": "Ethnic, cultural and religious groups of Bahrain\n\nBahrain is a nation in the Persian Gulf, in a strategical position in relation to the eastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula, Iran, Iraq and Oman.\n\nThe Baharna are putatively regarded as of the original pre-Islamic inhabitants of Bahrain.\n\nThe Baharna are closely related to the Shia of Qatif, and even speak a similar dialect. Baharna live in Manama, almost all the villages of the main island of Bahrain, several villages in the island of Muharraq in the north and in the island of Sitra to the east. They speak similar dialects, with slight variations between villages, although the villages of Sitra have dialects which differ considerably from those of the main island.\n\nPalm tree farming and fishing were the traditional economic activities of the Baharna.\n\nThere are also Shia Arabs concentrated in several neighborhoods in Muharraq city. They originally came from Al-Hasa, they are \"Hasawis\". They are distinct from the Baharna from villages outside the city proper. As a result of their proximity to surrounding Sunni Arabs and Africans, they speak the Sunni dialect.\n\nThe Shia Persians of Bahrain are a significant and influential ethnic minority whose ancestors arrived in Bahrain in the early 20th century as laborers, artisans and merchants. There are large communities in Muharraq and Manama. Persians maintain a distinct culture and language, but have long since assimilated into Bahraini culture; they tend to identify themselves more as Persian Bahrainis or Bahrainis than Iranians. Almost all are bilingual in Arabic and Persian, with school, work and daily affairs conducted in Arabic and Persian usually relegated to the family domain. Almost all have possessed Bahraini citizenship since birth; in most cases their parents, and in some cases their grandparents, are also holders of Bahraini citizenship.\n\nThe native Sunni population has been historically compartmentalized into the three groups listed below, with the Sunni Arabs forming the majority of the Bahraini population. Sunni Bahrainis are mostly concentrated in areas such as Busaiteen, Budaiya, Jasra, Zallaq, Askar, Jaw, al-Dur, amongst others.\n\nSunni Arabs are mostly descendants of tribes from central Arabia. Sunni Arabs are the most influential ethnic group in Bahrain, they hold most government positions and the Bahraini monarchy are Sunni Arabs. Sunni Arabs have traditionally lived in areas such as Zallaq, Muharraq, Riffa and Hawar islands.\n\nMost Bahrainis of African descent originate from East Africa and have traditionally lived in Muharraq Island and Riffa.\n\nThe Huwala are the descendants of Sunni Iranians who migrated to the Arab states of the Persian Gulf during the 19th century. Many of them originally lived in Awadhiya (a neighborhood in Godaibiya) and Hoora, both which are now nearly exclusively only populated by foreigners of Filipino, Indian and Bengali origins, however they later resettled in Muharraq Island and Riffa.\n\nFor the vast majority of its history Bahrain has been economically and culturally dependant on two regions, Assyrian and Meluhas the latter being Indians comprising the current state of Gujarat. \n\nThere is both literary and archaeological evidence of extensive trade between Ancient Mesopotamia and the Indus Valley civilization. Impressions of clay seals from the Indus Valley city of Lothal and Harappa were evidently used to seal bundles of merchandise, as clay seal impressions with cord or sack marks on the reverse side testify. Numerous Indus Valley seals have turned up at Ur and other Mesopotamian sites, far outnumbering even local seals which shows their preference for the Indian economic currencies and seals.\nThe \"Persian Gulf\" types of circular, stamped (rather than rolled) seals known from Dilmun, that appear at Lothal in Gujarat, India, and Failaka, as well as in Mesopotamia, are convincing corroboration of the long-distance sea trade. What the commerce consisted of is less known: timber and precious woods, ivory, lapis lazuli, gold, and luxury goods such as carnelian and glazed stone beads, pearls from the Persian Gulf, shell and bone inlays, were among the goods sent to Mesopotamia in exchange for silver, tin, woolen textiles, olive oil and grains. Copper ingots from Oman and bitumen which occurred naturally in Mesopotamia may have been exchanged for cotton textiles and domestic fowl, major products of the Indus region that are not native to Mesopotamia. Instances of all of these trade goods have been found. The importance of this trade is shown by the fact that the weights and measures used at Dilmun were in fact identical to those used by the Indus, and were not those used in Southern Mesopotamia.\n\nMesopotamian trade documents, lists of goods, and official inscriptions mentioning Meluhha supplement Harappan seals and archaeological finds. Literary references to Meluhhan trade date from the Akkadian, the Third Dynasty of Ur, and Isin-Larsa Periods (c. 2350–1800 BC), but the trade probably started in the Early Dynastic Period (c. 2600 BC). Some Meluhhan vessels may have sailed directly to Mesopotamian ports, but by the Isin-Larsa Period, Dilmun monopolized the trade. The Bahrain National Museum assesses that its \"Golden Age\" lasted ca. 2200-1600 BC. Discoveries of ruins under the Persian Gulf maybe of Dilmun.\n\nIn the Mesopotamian epic poem \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", Gilgamesh had to pass through Mount Mashu to reach Dilmun, Mount Mashu is usually identified with the whole of the parallel Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon ranges, with the narrow gap between these mountains constituting the tunnel.\n\nDilmun, sometimes described as \"the place where the sun rises\" and \"the Land of the Living\", is the scene of some versions of the Sumerian creation myth, and the place where the deified Sumerian hero of the flood, Utnapishtim (Ziusudra), was taken by the gods to live forever. Thorkild Jacobsen's translation of the Eridu Genesis calls it \"Mount Dilmun\" which he locates as a \"faraway, half-mythical place\".\n\nDilmun is also described in the epic story of Enki and Ninhursag as the site at which the Creation occurred. The promise of Enki to Ninhursag, the Earth Mother: <poem>For Dilmun, the land of my lady's heart, I will create long waterways, rivers and canals,\nwhereby water will flow to quench the thirst of all beings and bring abundance to all that lives.</poem>\nNinlil, the Sumerian goddess of air and south wind had her home in Dilmun. It is also featured in the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\".\n\nHowever, in the early epic \"Enmerkar and the Lord of Aratta\", the main events, which center on Enmerkar's construction of the ziggurats in Uruk and Eridu, are described as taking place in a world \"before Dilmun had yet been settled\".\n\nThe immigration of South Asians to Bahrain started in the late quarter of the 19th century and today Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, and Indians combined form the largest expatriate groups in Bahrain.\n\nThere were 197,273 Indian workers and 56,666 dependents as of 2014 and the majority of the public sector. Most of them are either Hindus or Christians, with a sizable Sikh and Muslim minority. There are multiple schools that were established in the country in the 20th century that offer the CBSE curriculum, the oldest of which is The Indian School which was first established in 1950.\n\nIn 2014 there were 39,765 Pakistani workers in Bahrain and 8,647 dependents, a further 30,000 have been given citizenship. A 2011 estimate states that 10,000 of them serve in security forces. The vast majority of Pakistanis in Bahrain are Muslim.\n\nBangladesh recognized and established diplomatic ties with Bahrain in 1974, although Bangladeshi expatriates started arriving decades before that. In 2014 there were 92,193 working in Bahrain and 3,116 dependents.\n\nIn 2014 there were 25,568 Filipino workers in Bahrain and a further 3,189 dependents living there.\n\nIn 2014 there were 8,083 workers and 10,176 dependents living in Bahrain\n\nIn 2014 there were 5,790 Sri Lankan workers in Bahrain and a further 1,632 dependents living there.\n\nIn 2014 there were 2,367 British workers in Bahrain and 1,710 dependents However, the Gulf News states there were 9,000 permanent British residents in 2013 and that 240 were given citizenship\n\nBahraini Jews constitute one of the world's smallest Jewish communities. Today the community has a synagogue and small Jewish cemetery and numbers thirty-seven persons.\n"}
{"id": "47993932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47993932", "title": "Externalizing disorders", "text": "Externalizing disorders\n\nExternalizing disorders (or externalising disorders) are mental disorders characterized by externalizing behaviors, maladaptive behaviors directed toward an individual's environment, which cause impairment or interference in life functioning. In contrast to individuals with internalizing disorders who internalize (keep inside) their maladaptive emotions and cognitions, such feelings and thoughts are externalized (manifested outside) in behavior in individuals with externalizing disorders. Externalizing disorders are often specifically referred to as disruptive behavior disorders (attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, oppositional defiant disorder, and conduct disorder) or conduct problems which occur in childhood. Externalizing disorders, however, are also manifested in adulthood. For example, alcohol- and substance-related disorders and antisocial personality disorder are adult externalizing disorders. Externalizing psychopathology is associated with antisocial behavior, which is different from and often confused for asociality.\n\nExternalizing disorders often involve emotion dysregulation problems and impulsivity that are manifested as antisocial behavior and aggression in opposition to authority, societal norms, and often violate the rights of others. Some examples of externalizing disorder symptoms include, often losing one's temper, excessive verbal aggression, physical aggression to people and animals, destruction of property, theft, and deliberate fire setting. As with all DSM-5 mental disorders, an individual must have functional impairment in at least one domain (e.g., academic, occupational, social relationships, or family functioning) in order to meet diagnostic criteria for an externalizing disorder. Moreover, an individual's symptoms should be atypical for their cultural and environmental context and physical medical conditions should be ruled out before an externalizing disorder diagnosis is considered. Diagnoses must be made by qualified mental health professionals. DSM-5 classifications of externalizing disorders are listed herein, however, can also be used to classify externalizing disorders. More specific criteria and examples of symptoms for various externalizing disorders can be found in the DSM-5.\n\nThere are no specific criteria for \"externalizing behavior\" or \"externalizing disorders\". Thus, there is no clear classification of what constitutes an externalizing disorder in the DSM-5. Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), oppositional defiant disorder (ODD), conduct disorder (CD), antisocial personality disorder (ASPD), pyromania, kleptomania, intermittent explosive disorder (IED), and substance-related disorders are frequently referred to as externalizing disorders. Disruptive mood dysregulation disorder has also been posited as an externalizing disorder, but little research has examined and validated it to date given its recent addition to the DSM-5, and thus, it is not included further herein.\n\nInattention ADHD symptoms include: \"often fails to give close attention to details or makes careless mistakes in schoolwork, at work, or during other activities,\" \"often has difficulty sustaining attention in tasks or play activities,\" \"often does not seem to listen when spoken to directly,\" \"often does not follow through on instructions and fails to finish schoolwork, chores, or duties in the workplace,\" \"often has difficulty organizing tasks and activities,\" \"often avoids, dislikes, or is reluctant to engage in tasks that require sustained mental effort,\" \"often loses things necessary for tasks or activities,\" \"is often easily distracted by extraneous stimuli (for older adolescents and adults, may include unrelated thoughts),\" and \"is often forgetful in daily activities.\"\n\nHyperactivity and impulsivity ADHD symptoms include: \"often fidgets with or taps hands or feet or squirms in seat,\" \"often leaves seat in situations when remaining seated is expected,\" \"often runs about or climbs in situations where it is inappropriate,\" \"is often unable to play or engage in leisure activities quietly,\" \"is often \"on the go,\" acting as if \"driven by a motor,\" \"often talks excessively,\" \"often blurts out an answer before a question has been completed,\" \"often has difficulty waiting his or her turn,\" and \"often interrupts or intrudes on others.\"\n\nIn order to meet criteria for an ADHD diagnosis, an individual must have at least 6 symptoms of inattention and/or hyperactivity/impulsivity, have an onset of several symptoms prior to age 12 years, have symptoms present in at least 2 settings, have functional impairment, and have symptoms that are not better explained by another mental disorder.\n\nOppositional defiant disorder (ODD) symptoms include: \"often loses temper,\" \"is often touchy or easily annoyed,\" \"is often angry and resentful,\" \"often argues with authority figures, or for children and adolescents, with adults,\" \"often actively defies or refuses to comply with requests from authority figures or with rules,\" \"often deliberately annoys others,\" and \"often blames others for his or her mistakes or misbehavior.\" In order to receive an ODD diagnosis, individuals must have at least 4 symptoms from above for at least 6 months (most days for youth younger than 5 years) with at least one individual who is not a sibling, which causes impairment in at least one setting. Rule outs for a diagnosis include symptoms occurring concurrently during an episode of another disorder.\n\nConduct disorder (CD) symptoms include \"often bullies, threatens, or intimidates others,\" \"often initiates physical fights,\" \"has used a weapon that can cause serious physical harm to others,\" \"has been physically cruel to people,\" \"has been physically cruel to animals,\" \"has stolen while confronting a victim,\" \"has forced someone into sexual activity,\" \"has deliberately engaged in fire setting with the intention of causing serious damage,\" \"has deliberately destroyed others' property (other than by fire setting),\" \"has broken into someone else's house, building, or car,\" \"often lies to obtain goods or favors or to avoid obligations,\" \"has stolen items of nontrivial value without confronting a victim,\" \"often stays out at night despite parental prohibitions, beginning before age 13 years,\" \"has run away from home overnight at least twice while living in the parental or parental surrogate home, or once without returning for a lengthy period,\" and \"is often truant from school, beginning before age 13 years.\" In order to receive a CD diagnosis, individuals must have 3 of these symptoms for at least one year, at least 2 symptoms for at least 6 months, be impaired in at least one setting, and not have an antisocial personality disorder diagnosis if 18 years or older.\n\nAntisocial personality disorder (ASPD) symptoms include: \"failure to conform to social norms with respect to lawful behaviors, as indicated by repeatedly performing acts that are grounds for arrest,\" \"deceitfulness, as indicated by repeated lying, use of aliases, or conning others for personal profit or pleasure,\" \"impulsivity or failure to plan ahead,\" \"irritability and aggressiveness, as indicated by repeated physical fights or assaults,\" \"reckless disregard for safety of self or others,\" \"consistent irresponsibility, as indicated by repeated failure to sustain consistent work behavior or honor financial obligations,\" and \"lack of remorse, as indicated by being indifferent to or rationalizing having hurt, mistreated, or stolen from another.\" In order to meet diagnostic criteria for ASPD, an individual must have \"a pervasive pattern of disregard for and violation of the rights of others, occurring since age 15 years,\" 3 or more of the above symptoms, be at least age 18 years, have a conduct disorder onset before age 15 years, and not have antisocial behavior exclusively during schizophrenia or bipolar disorder.\n\nPyromania symptoms include: \"deliberate and purposeful fire setting on more than one occasion,\" \"tension or affective arousal before the act,\" \"fascination with, interest in, curiosity about, or attraction to fire and its situational contexts,\" and \"pleasure, gratification, or relief when setting fires or when witnessing or participating in their aftermath.\" In order to receive a pyromania diagnosis, \"the fire setting is not done for monetary gain, as an expression of sociopolitical ideology, to conceal criminal activity, to express anger or vengeance, to improve one's living circumstances, in response to a delusion or hallucination, or as a result of impaired judgment.\" A conduct disorder diagnosis, manic episode, or antisocial personality disorder diagnosis must not better account for the fire setting in order to receive a pyromania diagnosis.\n\nKleptomania symptoms include: \"recurrent failure to resist impulses to steal objects that are not needed for personal use or for their monetary value,\" \"increasing sense of tension immediately before committing the theft,\" and \"pleasure, gratification, or relief at the time of committing the theft.\" In order to receive a kleptomania diagnosis, \"the stealing is not committed to express anger or vengeance and is not in response to a delusion or a hallucination.\" Additionally, in order to receive a diagnosis, \"the stealing is not better explained by conduct disorder, a manic episode, or antisocial personality disorder.\"\n\nIntermittent explosive disorder (IED) symptoms include \"recurrent behavioral outbursts representing a failure to control aggressive impulses as manifested by either of the following: 1) Verbal aggression (e.g., temper tantrums, tirades, verbal arguments or fights) or physical aggression toward property, animals, or other individuals, occurring twice weekly, on average, for a period of 3 months. The physical aggression does not result in damage or destruction of property and does not result in physical injury to animals or other individuals. 2) Three behavioral outbursts involving damage or destruction of property and/or physical assault involving physical injury against animals or other individuals occurring within a 12-month period.\" In order to receive an IED diagnosis, \"the magnitude of aggressiveness expressed during the recurrent outbursts is grossly out of proportion to the provocation or to any precipitating psychosocial stressors,\" \"the recurrent aggressive outbursts are not premeditated\" and \"are not committed to achieve some tangible objective.\" Additionally, to receive an IED diagnosis, an individual must be 6 years or older (chronologically or developmentally), have functional impairment, and not have symptoms better explained by another mental disorder, medical condition, or substance.\n\nAccording to the DSM-5, \"the essential feature of a substance use disorder is a cluster of cognitive, behavioral, and physiological symptoms indicating that the individual continues using the substance despite significant substance-related problems.\" Given that at least 10 separate classes of drugs are covered in the DSM-5 Substance-Related and Addictive Disorders section, it is outside the scope of this article. Refer to the DSM-5 for more information on signs and symptoms.\n\nIndividuals with psychopathic traits, including callous-unemotional (CU) traits, represent a phenomenologically and etiologically distinct group with severe externalizing problems. Psychopathic traits have been measured in children as young as 2 years-old, are moderately stable, are heritable, and associated with atypical affective, cognitive, personality, and social characteristics. Individuals with psychopathic traits are at risk for poor response to treatment, however, some data suggest that parent management training interventions for youth with psychopathic traits early in development may have promise.\n\nADHD often precedes the onset of ODD, and approximately half of children with ADHD, Combined Type also have ODD. ODD is a risk factor for CD and frequently precedes the onset of CD symptoms. Children with an early onset of CD symptoms, with at least one symptom before age 10 years, are at risk for more severe and persistent antisocial behavior continuing into adulthood. Youth with early-onset conduct problems are particularly at risk for ASPD (note that an onset of CD prior to age 15 is part of the diagnostic criteria for ASPD), whereas CD is typically limited to adolescence when youth's CD symptoms begin during adolescence.\n\nDespite recent initiatives to study psychopathology along dimensions of behavior and neurobiological indices, which would help refine a clearer picture of the development and treatment of externalizing disorders, the majority of research has examined specific mental disorders. Thus, best practices for many externalizing disorders are disorder-specific. For example, substance use disorders themselves are very heterogeneous and their best-evidenced treatment typically includes cognitive behavioral therapy, motivational interviewing, and a substance disorder-specific detoxification or psychotropic medication treatment component. The best-evidenced treatment for childhood conduct and externalizing problems more broadly, including youth with ADHD, ODD, and CD, is parent management training, a form of cognitive behavioral therapy. Additionally, individuals with ADHD, both youth and adults, are frequently treated with stimulant medications (or alternative psychotropic medications), especially if psychotherapy alone has not been effective in managing symptoms and impairment. Psychotherapy and medication interventions for individuals with severe, adult forms of antisocial behavior, such as antisocial personality disorder, have been mostly ineffective. An individual's comorbid psychopathology may also influences the course of treatment for an individual.\n\nExternalizing disorders are frequently comorbid or co-occurring with other disorders. Individuals who have the co-occurrence of more than one externalizing disorder have homotypic comorbidity, whereas individuals who have co-occurring externalizing and internalizing disorders have heterotypic comorbidity. It is not uncommon for children with early externalizing problems to develop both internalizing and further externalizing problems across the lifespan.\n\nConsistent with many mental disorders, individuals with externalizing disorders are subject to significant implicit and explicit forms of stigma. Because externalizing behaviors are salient and difficult to conceal, individuals with externalizing disorders may be more susceptible to stigmatization relative to individuals with other disorders. Parents of youth with childhood mental disorders, such as ADHD and ODD, are frequently stigmatized when parenting practices are strongly implicated in the etiology or cause of the disorder. Educational and policy-related initiatives have been proposed as potential mechanisms to reduce stigmatization of mental disorders.\n\nThe classification for several externalizing disorders changed from DSM-IV to DSM-5. ADHD, ODD, and CD were previously classified in the Attention-deficit and Disruptive Behavior Disorders section in DSM-IV. Pyromania, kleptomania, and IED were previously classified in the Impulse-Control Disorders Not Otherwise Specified Section of DSM-IV. ADHD is now categorized in the Neurodevelopmental Disorders section in DSM-5. ODD, CD, pyromania, kleptomania, and IED are now categorized in the new Disruptive, Impulse-Control, and Conduct Disorders chapter of DSM-5. Overall, there were many changes made to the DSM from the transition of DSM-IV-TR to DSM-5, which was somewhat controversial.\n\ns"}
{"id": "15842120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15842120", "title": "Ezatullah (Nangarhar)", "text": "Ezatullah (Nangarhar)\n\nA local leader of an anti-Taliban militia, from Sorubi, set up a provisional government in Nangarhar Province on November 16, 2001, after the Taliban retreated.\nThe two other leaders in the provisional government were Hazrati Ali from Towr Kham and Malawi Yunis Khalis from the Provincial capital, Jalalabad.\n"}
{"id": "347553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347553", "title": "Gens", "text": "Gens\n\nIn ancient Rome, a gens ( or ), plural gentes, was a family consisting of all those individuals who shared the same nomen and claimed descent from a common ancestor. A branch of a gens was called a \"stirps\" (plural \"stirpes\"). The \"gens\" was an important social structure at Rome and throughout Italy during the period of the Roman Republic. Much of an individual's social standing depended on the gens to which he belonged. Certain gentes were considered patrician, others plebeian, while some had both patrician and plebeian branches. The importance of membership in a gens declined considerably in imperial times.\n\nThe word \"gens\" is sometimes translated as \"race\" or \"nation\", meaning a people descended from a common ancestor (rather than sharing a common physical trait). It can also be translated as \"clan\" or \"tribe\", although the word \"tribus\" has a separate and distinct meaning in Roman culture. A gens could be as small as a single family, or could include hundreds of individuals. According to tradition, in 479 BC the gens Fabia alone were able to field a militia consisting of three hundred and six men of fighting age. The concept of the gens was not uniquely Roman, but was shared with communities throughout Italy, including those who spoke Italic languages such as Latin, Oscan, and Umbrian as well as the Etruscans. All of these peoples were eventually absorbed into the sphere of Roman culture.\n\nThe oldest gentes were said to have originated before the foundation of Rome (traditionally 753 BC), and claimed descent from mythological personages as far back as the time of the Trojan War (traditionally ended 1184 BC). However, the establishment of the gens cannot long predate the adoption of hereditary surnames. The \"nomen gentilicium\", or \"gentile name\", was its distinguishing feature, for a Roman citizen's nomen indicated his membership in a gens.\n\nThe nomen could be derived from any number of things, such as the name of an ancestor, a person's occupation, physical appearance, behavior, or characteristics, or town of origin. Because some of these things were fairly common, it was possible for unrelated families to bear the same nomen, and over time to become confused.\n\nPersons could be adopted into a gens and acquire its nomen. A \"libertus\", or \"freedman\", usually assumed the nomen (and sometimes also the praenomen) of the person who had manumitted him, and a naturalized citizen usually took the name of the patron who granted his citizenship. Freedmen and newly enfranchised citizens were not technically part of the gentes whose names they shared, but within a few generations it often became impossible to distinguish their descendants from the original members. In practice this meant that a gens could acquire new members and even new branches, either by design or by accident.\n\nDifferent branches or \"stirpes\" of a gens were usually distinguished by their cognomina, additional surnames following the nomen, which could be either personal or hereditary. Some particularly large stirpes themselves became divided into multiple branches, distinguished by additional cognomina.\n\nMost gentes regularly employed a limited number of personal names, or \"praenomina\", the selection of which helped to distinguish members of one gens from another. Sometimes different branches of a gens would vary in their names of choice. The most conservative gentes would sometimes limit themselves to three or four praenomina, while others made regular use of six or seven.\n\nThere were two main reasons for this limited selection: first, it was traditional to pass down family names from one generation to the next; such names were always preferred. Second, most patrician families limited themselves to a small number of names as a way of distinguishing themselves from the plebeians, who often employed a wider variety of names, including some that were seldom used by the patricians. However, several of the oldest and most noble patrician houses frequently used rare and unusual praenomina.\n\nCertain families also deliberately avoided particular praenomina. In at least some cases, this was because of traditions concerning disgraced or dishonored members of the gens bearing a particular name. For example, the gens Junia carefully avoided the praenomina \"Titus\" and \"Tiberius\" after two members with these names were executed for treason. A similar instance supposedly led the assembly of the gens Manlia to forbid its members from bearing the praenomen \"Marcus\", although this prohibition does not seem to have been strictly observed.\n\nIn theory, each gens functioned as a state within a state, governed by its own elders and assemblies, following its own customs, and carrying out its own religious rites. Certain cults were traditionally associated with specific gentes. The gentile assemblies had the responsibility of adoption and guardianship for their members. If a member of a gens died intestate and without immediate family, his property was distributed to the rest of the gens.\n\nThe decisions of a gens were theoretically binding on all of its members. However, no public enactment is recorded as having been passed by the assembly of a gens. As a group, the gentes had considerable influence on the development of Roman law and religious practices, but comparatively little influence on the political and constitutional history of Rome.\n\nCertain gentes were considered patrician, and others plebeian. According to tradition, the patricians were descended from the \"city fathers\", or \"patres\"; that is, the heads of family at the time of its foundation by Romulus, the first King of Rome. Other noble families which came to Rome during the time of the kings were also admitted to the patriciate, including several who emigrated from Alba Longa after that city was destroyed by Tullus Hostilius. The last known instance of a gens being admitted to the patriciate prior to the 1st century BC was when the Claudii were added to the ranks of the patricians after coming to Rome in 504 BC, five years after the establishment of the Republic.\n\nNumerous sources describe two classes amongst the patrician gentes, known as the \"gentes maiores\", or major gentes, and the \"gentes minores\", or minor gentes. No definite information has survived concerning which families were numbered amongst the gentes maiores, or even how many there were. However, they almost certainly included the Aemilii, Claudii, Cornelii, Fabii, Manlii, and Valerii. Nor is it certain whether this distinction was of any practical importance, although it has been suggested that the \"princeps senatus\", or speaker of the Senate, was usually chosen from their number.\n\nFor the first several decades of the Republic, it is not entirely certain which gentes were considered patrician and which plebeian. However, a series of laws promulgated in 451 and 450 BC as the Twelve Tables attempted to codify a rigid distinction between the classes, formally excluding the plebeians from holding any of the major magistracies from that time until the passage of the \"Lex Licinia Sextia\" in 367 BC. The law forbidding the intermarriage of patricians and plebeians was repealed after only a few years, by the \"Lex Canuleia\" in 445 BC.\n\nDespite the formal reconciliation of the orders in 367, the patrician houses, which as time passed represented a smaller and smaller percentage of the Roman populace, continued to hold on to as much power as possible, resulting in frequent conflict between the orders over the next two centuries. Certain patrician families regularly opposed the sharing of power with the plebeians, while others favored it, and some were divided.\n\nMany gentes included both patrician and plebeian branches. These may have arisen through adoption or manumission, or when two unrelated families bearing the same nomen became confused. It may also be that individual members of a gens voluntarily left or were expelled from the patriciate, along with their descendants. In some cases, gentes that must originally have been patrician, or which were so regarded during the early Republic, were later known only by their plebeian descendants.\n\nBy the first century BC, the practical distinction between the patricians and the plebeians was minimal. Nonetheless, with the rise of imperial authority, several plebeian gentes were raised to the patriciate, replacing older patrician families that had faded into obscurity, and were no longer represented in the Roman senate. Although both the concept of the gens and of the patriciate survived well into imperial times, both gradually lost most of their significance. In the final centuries of the Western Empire, \"patricius\" was used primarily as an individual title, rather than a class to which an entire family belonged.\n\n"}
{"id": "6676659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6676659", "title": "Glenn Lee Benner II", "text": "Glenn Lee Benner II\n\nGlenn Lee Benner II (September 24, 1962 – February 7, 2006) was a convicted murderer, executed by the State of Ohio.\n\nOn August 6, 1985, Benner abducted 26-year-old Cynthia Sedgwick in the woods surrounding the Blossom Music Center in Summit County, where they both attended a concert. Benner raped Sedgwick and choked her to death.\n\nOn January 2, 1986, Benner kidnapped an acquaintance, 21-year-old Trina Bowser, in Akron and raped and killed her. DNA testing, conducted during federal appeals in 2003, identified Benner as the source of semen in Bowser's vagina and anus.\n\nOn May 14, 1986, Benner was convicted for kidnapping, rape, and aggravated murder. He was also convicted for the attempted murders and rapes of two other women on two separate occasions. \n\nHe spent 19 years, eight months, and 25 days on death row before being executed by lethal injection on February 7, 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35837728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35837728", "title": "Greeks in Azerbaijan", "text": "Greeks in Azerbaijan\n\nHistorically, Greeks in Azerbaijan have not formed a large community in comparison to those in neighbouring Georgia and Armenia. It was composed mainly of Pontic Greek immigrants from the Ottoman Empire.\n\nInitially, these immigrants arrived in the 1830s and settled in the village of Mehmana on the banks of the Tartar river. On 23 May 1830, the Georgian exarch appointed archpriest Vasily Andrianov to lead the religious community of Mehmana.\n\nIn 1851, Trebizond-born Charalambos Koundourov (locally known as Usta Allahverdi) built two copper smelteries near Ordubad where the core staff consisted of Greek labourers. Ten years later, a school and a church for the Greek community were built there as well. The church was headed by Nikolaos Lavos. Koundourov's sons owned the smelteries after his death until the October Revolution.\n\nLocal Greeks were also prominent in architecture and construction. The Saint Nicholas Church in Baku and an Orthodox church in Altiaghaj were designed and built in the 1850s by Greek architects and contractors.\n\nGreeks had not started immigrating to Baku, the present-day capital of Azerbaijan, until the oil boom of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Statistical records from 1886 revealed no Greek population in the Baku Governorate, but the picture changed in 1897 when the census indicated 278 Greeks in the Baku Governorate and 658 in the Elisabethpol Governorate (compared to 102 in 1886). The immigrants consisted mainly of general labourers and retailers and included both Turkish citizens and natives of the Greek settlements elsewhere in the Caucasus.\n\nIn 1907, the city of Baku alone had an estimated Greek population of 800, most of whom had immigrated from Asia Minor and therefore could not execute religious services in Russian Orthodox churches where the working languages were Old Church Slavonic and Russian. Thus the Greek Benevolent Society of Baku received a permission to construct a Greek Orthodox church in Baku. The number of Greeks in Baku did not change much according to the 1917 official statistical data. According to Russian ethnographist Andrei Popov, there were 2,161 Greeks living in eight cities and villages across the Governorates of Baku and Elisabethpol as of 1919.\n\nAnother wave of Greek immigration took place in the aftermath of World War I and the establishment of Soviet rule in Baku in 1920. By 1923, Azerbaijan's Greek population rose to over 1,000, of which 58 people lived in the pioneer settlement of Mehmana. The building of the Greek philanthropic association located on Millionnaya Street (presently Amirov Street) in Baku housed an amateur Greek theatre, a church, a library and a primary school which had 89 students in 1921. There was a community football club named \"Embros\".\n\nCuriously nearly a third of Azerbaijan's Greek population chose to retain foreign citizenship. By 1937, 95% of foreign citizens residing in Azerbaijan were Greeks. This factor, as well as the Soviet Union's changing attitude toward its Greek population led to Greeks of Baku being a target of repression and forced relocation. In 1937–1938, many members of the community were arrested and some later executed. Among the victims was actress Pamphylia Tanailidi. By 1939, with the help of the Greek embassy in the USSR, most foreign citizens of Greek origin left Baku for Greece. Two more waves of repression resulting in relocation to Central Asia and Siberia targeted Greeks of Azerbaijan with Soviet citizenship and took place in 1942 and 1949 respectively, as part of the Bolshevik campaign of \"clearing the Caucasus from the politically untrustworthy elements.\"\n\nFollowing the collapse of the Soviet Union, in the midst of political instability over 100 of the remaining Greeks left Azerbaijan. The Greek population of the village of Mehmana fled during the Nagorno-Karabakh War. In 1994, a Greek cultural centre was established in Baku at the initiative of the Greek ambassador. In 1997, it was reorganized into the Argo Greek Society. The community, which has largely lost the Pontic language, presently numbers 535 people, both Greeks and descendants of mixed families.\n\n"}
{"id": "241074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241074", "title": "Greenwich Time Signal", "text": "Greenwich Time Signal\n\nThe Greenwich Time Signal (GTS), popularly known as the pips, is a series of six short tones broadcast at one-second intervals by many BBC Radio stations. The pips were introduced in 1924 and have been generated by the BBC since 1990 to mark the precise start of each hour. Their utility in calibration is diminishing as digital broadcasting entails time lags.\n\nThere are six pips (short beeps) in total, which occur on each of the 5 seconds leading up to the hour and on the hour itself. Each pip is a 1 kHz tone (about halfway between musical B5 and C6) the first five of which last a tenth of a second each, while the final pip lasts half a second. The actual moment when the hour changes – the \"on-time marker\" – is at the very beginning of the last pip.\n\nWhen a leap second occurs (exactly one second before midnight UTC), it is indicated by a seventh pip. In this case the first pip occurs at 23:59:55 (as usual) and there is a sixth short pip at 23:59:60 (the leap second) followed by the long pip at 00:00:00. The possibility of an extra pip for the leap second thus justifies the final pip being longer than the others, so that it is always clear which pip is on the hour. Before leap seconds were conceived, the final pip was the same length as the others. Although \"negative\" leap seconds can also be used to make the year shorter, this has never happened in practice.\n\nAlthough normally broadcast only on the hour by BBC domestic radio, BBC World Service use the signal at other times as well. The signal is generated at each quarter-hour and has on occasion been broadcast in error.\n\nUp to 1972 the pips were of equal length and confusion arose as to which was the final pip, hence the last pip was of extended length.\n\nThe pips are available to BBC radio stations every 15 minutes but except in rare cases, they are only broadcast on the hour, usually before news bulletins or news programmes. On BBC Radio 4, the pips are broadcast every hour except at 18:00 and 00:00 and at 22:00 on Sundays (at the start of the Westminster Hour) when they are replaced by the Westminster chimes of Big Ben at the Palace of Westminster. No time signal is broadcast at 15:00 on Saturdays and at 10:00 and 11:00 on Sundays. This is caused by the scheduling of the afternoon play on Saturday and the omnibus edition of \"The Archers\" on Sunday. On BBC Radio 2, the pips are used at 07:00, 08:00, 17:00 and 19:00 on weekdays, at 07:00 and 08:00 on Saturdays and at 08:00 and 09:00 on Sundays.\n\nThe pips were used on Radio 1 during \"The Chris Moyles Show\" at 06:30 just after the news, 09:00 as part of the Tedious Link feature, 10 am (at the end of the show) and often before \"Newsbeat\". As most stations only air the pips on the hour, \"The Chris Moyles Show\" was the only show where the pips were broadcast on the half-hour. Chris Moyles continues to use the pips at the beginning of his show on Radio X. Zane Lowe's Masterpieces, the playing of an album in its entirety, is begun with pips, and they also feature at 19:00 on Fridays to signify the start of the weekend and at 16:00 on Sundays to mark the start of \"The Official Chart Show\". \"The Weekend Breakfast Show with Dev\" begins with the pips at 06:00, and they sometimes feature on the hour at other points during the show, and \"Gemma Cairney's Early Breakfast Show\" begins with the pips. Dev's previous \"Early Breakfast Show\" also featured the pips at the beginning, and on the half-hour/hour at other points, particularly at 06:00 before or after the \"I'm Here All Week\" track. The pips are also used at 19:00 on Saturday evenings at the start of Radio 1's 12-hour simulcast with digital station BBC Radio 1Xtra.\n\nBBC Radio 3 and BBC Radio Five Live do not currently feature the Greenwich Time Signal in their scheduled programming.\n\nThe BBC World Service broadcasts the pips every hour.\n\nPips can also be heard on many BBC Local Radio stations although their use is up to the discretion of individual stations. A rare quarter-hour Greenwich Time Signal can be heard at 05:15 weekdays on Wally Webb's programme on six BBC Local Radio stations in the east of England, as part of his \"sychronised cup of tea\" feature.\n\nIn 1999, pip-like sounds were incorporated into the themes written by composer David Lowe to introduce BBC Television News programmes. They are still used today on BBC One, BBC World News and BBC News.\n\nThe BBC does not allow the pips to be broadcast except as a time signal. Radio plays and comedies which have fictional news programmes use various methods to avoid playing the full six pips, ranging from simply fading in the pips to a version played on \"On the Hour\" in which the sound was made into a small tune between the pips. \"The News Quiz\" also featured a special Christmas pantomime edition where the pips went missing, and the problem was avoided there by only playing individual pips and not the whole set. The 2012 project \"Radio Reunited\", however, did use the pips not as a time signal, but simply to commemorate 90 years of BBC Radio.\n\nThe pips for national radio stations and some local radio stations are timed relative to UTC, from an atomic clock in the basement of Broadcasting House synchronised with the National Physical Laboratory's Time from NPL and GPS. On other stations, the pips are generated locally from a GPS-synchronised clock.\n\nThe BBC compensates for the time delay in both broadcasting and receiving equipment, as well as the time for the actual transmission. The pips are timed so that they are accurately received on long wave as far as from the Droitwich AM transmitter, which is the distance to Central London.\n\nAs a pre-IRIG and pre-NTP time transfer and transmission system, the pips have been a great technological success. In modern times, however, time can be transferred to systems with CPUs and operating systems by using BCD or some Unix Time variant.\n\nNewer digital broadcasting methods have introduced even greater problems for the accuracy of use of the pips. On digital platforms such as DVB, DAB, satellite and the internet, the pips—although \"generated\" accurately—are not \"heard\" by the listener exactly on the hour. The encoding and decoding of the digital signal causes a delay, of usually between 2 and 8 seconds. In the case of satellite broadcasting, the travel time of the signal to and from the satellite adds about another 0.25 seconds.\n\nThe pips have been broadcast daily since 5 February 1924,\nand were the idea of the Astronomer Royal, Sir Frank Watson Dyson, and the head of the BBC, John Reith. The pips were originally controlled by two mechanical clocks located in the Royal Greenwich Observatory that had electrical contacts attached to their pendula. Two clocks were used in case of a breakdown of one. These sent a signal each second to the BBC, which converted them to the audible oscillatory tone broadcast.\n\nThe Royal Greenwich Observatory moved to Herstmonceux Castle in 1957 and the GTS equipment followed a few years later in the form of an electronic clock. Reliability was improved by renting two lines for the service between Herstmonceux and the BBC, with a changeover between the two at Broadcasting House if the main line became disconnected.\n\nThe tone sent on the lines was inverted: the signal sent to the BBC was a steady 1 kHz tone when no pip was required, and no tone when a pip should be sounded. This let faults on the line be detected immediately by automated monitoring for loss of audio.\n\nThe Greenwich Time Signal was the first sound heard in the handover to the London 2012 Olympics during the Beijing 2008 Olympics closing ceremony.\n\nThe pips were also broadcast by the BBC Television Service, but this practice was discontinued by the 1960s.\n\nTo celebrate the 90th birthday of the pips on 5 February 2014, the \"Today\" programme broadcast a sequence that included a re-working of the Happy Birthday melody using the GTS as its base sound.\n\nThe BBC discourages any other sound being broadcast at the same time as the pips; doing so is commonly known as 'crashing the pips'. This was most often referred to on Terry Wogan's Radio 2 Breakfast show, although usually only in jest since the actual event happened rarely. Different BBC Radio stations approach this issue differently. Both BBC Radio 1 and Radio 2 generally take a more laid-back approach with the pips, usually playing them over the closing seconds of a currently playing song or a jingle 'bed' (background music from a jingle), followed by their respective news jingles. Many BBC local radio stations also play the pips over the station's jingle. BBC Radio 4 is stricter. It is an almost entirely speech-based network; incidents at the end of the \"Today\" programme regularly cause listeners' complaints.\n\nAs a contribution to Comic Relief's 2005 Red Nose Day, the BBC developed a \"pips\" ring-tone which can be downloaded.\n\nBill Bailey's BBC Rave includes the BBC News theme, which incorporates a variant of the pips (though not actually broadcast exactly on the hour). The footage can be seen on his DVD \"Part Troll\".\n\nIn the late 1980s Radio 1 featured the pips played over a station jingle during Jakki Brambles' early show and Simon Mayo's breakfast show. This was not strictly crashing the pips as they were not intended to be, or mistaken for, an accurate time signal.\n\nAt 8 am on 17 September 2008, to the surprise of John Humphrys, the day's main presenter on the \"Today\" programme, and Johnnie Walker, who was standing in for Terry Wogan on Radio 2, the pips went adrift by 6 seconds, and broadcast seven pips rather than six. This was traced to a problem with the pip generator, which was 'repaired' by switching it off and on again. Part of Humphrys' surprise was probably because of his deliberate avoidance of crashing the pips with the help of an accurate clock in the studio.\n\nA sudden total failure in the generation of the audio pulses that constitute the pips was experienced on 31 May 2011 and silence was unexpectedly broadcast in place of the 17:00 signal. The problem was traced to the power supply of the equipment which converts the signal from the atomic clocks into an audible signal. Whilst repairs were underway the BBC elected to broadcast a \"dignified silence\" in place of the pips at 19:00. By 19:45 the same day the power supply was repaired and the 20:00 pips were broadcast as normal.\n\nMany radio broadcasters around the world use the Greenwich Time Signal as a means to mark the start of the hour. The pips are used in both domestic and international commercial and public broadcasting. Many radio stations use six tones similar to those used by the BBC World Service; some shorten it to five, four, or three tones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4853484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4853484", "title": "Homa people", "text": "Homa people\n\nHoma is an ethnic group of Sudan. This ethnic group speaks Arabic. This group is not uniform in terms of religion.\n"}
{"id": "20647937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20647937", "title": "Indo-Fijians", "text": "Indo-Fijians\n\nIndo-Fijians or Indian Fijians (Fijian Hindi: भारतीय फ़ीजी) are Fiji citizens who are fully or partially of Indian descent, which includes descendants who trace their heritage from various regions of the Indian subcontinent. They number 313,798 (37.6%) (2007 census) out of a total of 827,900 people living in :Fiji. They are mostly descended from indentured labourers, \"girmitiyas\" or \"girmit\", from districts of central and eastern Uttar Pradesh, as well as Bihar. They were brought to the islands as indentured servants from lower-caste tribes by Fiji's British colonial rulers between 1879 and 1916 to work on Fiji's sugar cane plantations. Mahendra Chaudhry became Fiji's first Indo-Fijian Prime Minister on 19 May 1999.\n\nIndians had been employed for a long time on the European ships trading in India and the East Indies. Many of the early voyages to the Pacific either started or terminated in India, and many of these ships were wrecked in the uncharted waters of the South Pacific. The first recorded presence of an Indian in Fiji was by Peter Dillon, a sandalwood trader in Fiji, of a lascar (Indian seaman) who survived a ship wreck and lived amongst the natives of Fiji in 1813.\n\nBefore Fiji was colonized by Great Britain, some planters had tried to obtain Indian labour and had approached the British Consul in Levuka, Fiji but were met with a negative response. In 1870 a direct request by a planter to the Government of India was also turned down and in 1872, an official request by the Cakobau Government was informed that British rule in Fiji was a pre-condition for Indian emigration to Fiji.\nThe early ancestors of Fiji Indians came from different regions and backgrounds from India and other neighbouring countries. However, most came from rural villages in northern and\nsouthern India.\n\nIn January 1879, thirty-one Indians, who had originally been indentured labourers in Réunion, were brought from New Caledonia to Fiji under contract to work on a plantation in Taveuni. These labourers demonstrated knowledge of the terms of the indenture agreement and were aware of their rights and refused to do the heavy work assigned to them. Their contract was terminated by mutual agreement between the labourers and their employers. In 1881, thirty-eight more Indians arrived from New Caledonia and again most of them left but some stayed taking Indian wives or island women.\n\nThe colonial authorities promoted the sugar cane industry, recognising the need to establish a stable economic base for the colony, but were unwilling to exploit indigenous labour and threaten the Fijian way of life. The use of imported labour from the Solomon Islands and what is now Vanuatu generated protests in the United Kingdom, and the Governor Sir Arthur Hamilton-Gordon decided to implement the indentured labour scheme, which had existed in the British Empire since 1837. A recruiting office was set up especially around Calcutta and the South, West and North later, especially a lot in rural village areas in different farming regions, land and areas.\n\nThe \"Leonidas\", a labour transport vessel, disembarked at Levuka from Calcutta on 14 May 1879. The 463 indentured workers who disembarked were the first of over 61,000 to arrive from South and East Asia in the following 37 years. The majority were from the districts of eastern and southern provinces, followed by labourers from northern and western regions, then later south eastern countries, they originated from different regions, villages, backgrounds and castes that later mingled or intermarried hence the \"Fijian Indian\" identity was created. The indentured workers originated mostly from rural village backgrounds.\n\nThe contracts of the indentured labourers, which they called \"girmit\" (agreements), required them to work in Fiji for a period of five years. Living conditions on the sugar cane plantations, on which most of the \"girmityas\" (indentured labourers) worked, had poor standards which resembled that of slavery. Hovels known as \"coolie lines\" dotted the landscape.\n\nPublic outrage in the United Kingdom at such abuses was a factor in the decision to halt the scheme in 1916. All existing indenture was cancelled on 1 January 1920.\n\nAfter a further five years of work as an indentured labourer or as a \"khula\" (free labourer), they were given the choice of returning to India at their own expense, or remain in Fiji. The great majority opted to stay because they could not afford to return under the low pay (even in many instances they were denied paid wages) of the British government or were refused to be sent back. After the expiry of their \"girmits\", many leased small plots of land from Fijians and developed their own sugarcane fields or cattle farmlets. Others went into business in the towns that were beginning to spring up.\n\nThe indenture system had two positive effects on subsequent generations. Firstly the need for people of different castes to live work and eat together led to an end of the caste system. Furthermore, shortage of females resulted in many marrying outside their caste. Another positive was the development of a new koiné language, known as Fiji Hindi that was formed from different languages and dialects of India. The speakers of these languages originated from different regions in India that supplied a lot of labourers. Music too, was important, with a distinct Fiji Hindi culture that some commentators have described as a forerunner to both bangla and jazz. For the most part, these people came from in certain rural or village areas. The language was further heavily enriched by the inclusion of many Fijian and English words. The language is now the mother tongue of majority Fiji Indians and is the lingua franca of not only all the Fiji Indians but also of all Fijian communities where ethnic Indians are in a majority.\n\nFrom the early 1900s, Indians started arriving in Fiji as free agents. Many of these paid their own way and had previously served in Fiji or other British colonies or had been born in Fiji. Amongst the early free migrants, there were religious teachers, missionaries and at least one lawyer. The government and other employers brought clerks, policemen, artisans, gardeners, experienced agricultural workers, a doctor and a school teacher. Punjabi farmers and Gujarati craftsmen also paid their own way to Fiji and in later year years formed an influential minority amongst the Fiji Indians.\n\nIn 1916, Manilal Doctor, the de facto leader of the Fiji Indians persuaded the colonial government of Fiji to form an Indian platoon for the war effort during the First World War. He sent the names of 32 volunteers to the government but his requests were ignored. As a result, a number of Fiji Indians volunteered for the New Zealand Army while one served in Europe during the First World War.\n\nIn 1934, Governor Fletcher, enacted a policy which warranted an Indian Platoon within the Fiji Defence Force consisting entirely of enlisted-ranked Indians. Governor Fletcher encouraged Indians to regard Fiji as their permanent home. One could say this was Governor Fletcher's insurance policy against an anticipated anti-European revolt at the hands of the Native population, which subsequently took place in 1959.\n\nWhile the Fiji Indian troops had the Europeans as their commanding and non-commissioned officers, the Native Fijians had Ratu Edward Cakobau, a Native Fijian, as their commanding officer. Prior to World War II, soldiers served voluntarily and were paid \"capitation grants\" according to efficiency ratings without regard to race. In 1939, during the mobilisation of the Fiji Defence Force, the British Royal Military changed its payment system to four shillings per day for enlisted men of European descent while enlisted men of non-European descent were paid only two shillings per day. Indian platoon readily disputed this disparity in pay. The British, fearing this dissidence would eventually be shared by the Native Fijians, decided to disband the Indian platoon in 1940 citing lack of available equipment, such as military armour, as their reason.\n\nIndians are defined by the constitution of Fiji as anybody who can trace, through either the male or the female line, their ancestry back to anywhere on the Indian subcontinent and all government documents use this name. However, a number of names have been proposed to distinguish Fiji-born citizens of Indian origin both from the indigenous inhabitants of Fiji and from India-born immigrants. Among the more popular proposals are Fiji Indian and Indo-Fijian. These labels have proved culturally and politically controversial, and finding a label of identification for the Indian community in Fiji has fuelled a debate that has continued for many decades. Other proposed names have been Fiji Indian and Fiji Born Indian.\n\nIn the late 1960s the leader of the National Federation Party, A. D. Patel, who used the slogan, \"One Country, One People, One Destiny\" suggested that all Fiji's citizens should be called Fijians and to distinguish the original inhabitants from the rest, the name \"Fijians\" should be used for native Fijians. There was widespread opposition to this from the native Fijians who feared that any such move would deprive them of the special privileges they had enjoyed since cession in 1874. The \"Fiji Times\" started using Fiji Islander to describe all Fiji's citizens but this name did not catch on.\n\nThe United States Department of State gives the nationality of Fiji citizens as \"Fiji Islander\" and states that \"the term \"Fijian\" has exclusively ethnic connotations and should not be used to describe any thing or person not of indigenous Fijian descent.\"\n\nAs the labels carry emotional and (according to some) politically loaded connotations, they are listed below in alphabetical order.\n\nFor a long time Fiji Indian was used to distinguish between Fiji citizens of Indian origin and Indians from India. The term was used by writers like K.L. Gillion and by the academic and politician, Ahmed Ali. The late President of Fiji, Ratu Sir Kamisese Mara, also used this term in his speeches and writings. The term was also used by the Methodist Church of Fiji and Rotuma, Fiji's largest Christian denomination, which had a Fiji-Indian division.\n\nThis term has been used by such writers as Adrian Mayer and Brij Lal. Ratu Joni Madraiwiwi, Fiji's Vice-President from 2004 to 2006, also used it in his speeches.\n\nIn 2006, Jone Navakamocea, Minister of State for National Planning in the Qarase government, called for the use of the term \"Indo-Fijian\" to be officially banned. He declared that the term was \"unacceptable\", and that Indo-Fijians should be referred to only as \"Indians\". The \"Hindustan Times\" reported Navakamocea had \"alleged that the Indo-Fijian term was coined by Indian academics in Fiji to 'Fijianise' their Indian ethnicity\", which, in Navakamocea's view, undermined the paramountcy of indigenous rights. Navakamocea lost office in the 2006 military coup when the army accused the Qarase government of anti-Fijian Indian racism and overthrew it.\n\nThe colonial rulers attempted to assuage Indian discontent by providing for one of their number to be nominated to the Legislative Council from 1916 onwards. Badri Maharaj, a strong supporter of the British Empire but with little support among his own people, was appointed by the Governor in 1916. His appointment did little to redress the grievances of the Indian community. Buttressed by the Indian Imperial Association founded by Manilal Maganlal, a lawyer who had arrived in Fiji in 1912, the Indians continued to campaign for better work and living conditions, and for an extension of the municipal franchise; literacy tests disqualified most Indians from participation. A strike by Indian municipal workers and Public Works Department employees, which began on 15 January 1920, ended in a riot which was forcibly quelled on 12 February; Manilal, widely blamed for the unrest, was deported. Another strike, from January to July in 1921, led by \"Sadhu\" (priest) Vashist Muni, demanded higher rates of pay for workers of the Colonial Sugar Refining Company (CSR), the unconditional return of Manilal, and the release of imprisoned 1920 strikers. The authorities responded by deporting Muni from Fiji.\n\nDemands increased for direct representation in the legislature. In 1929, Indian immigrants and their descendants were authorised to elect three members to the Legislative Council on a communal roll. Vishnu Deo, James Ramchandar and Parmanand Singh were duly elected. Agitation continued for a common roll, which the colonial administrators rejected, citing the fears of European settlers and Fijian chiefs that a common electoral roll would lead to political domination by Indians, whose numbers were rapidly increasing.\n\nTwo major Hindu movements attracted widespread support in the 1920s, and relationships between Hindus and Muslims also became increasingly strained.\n\nThe Arya Samaj in Fiji advocated purging Hinduism of what it saw as its superstitious elements and expensive rituals, opposed child marriage, and advocated the remarriage of widows, which orthodox Hinduism didn't promote at that time. The Arya Samaj also encouraged education for girls, which wasn't the norm at the time. The Arya Samaj began by establishing schools and by using a newspaper of one of its supporters, the Fiji Samachar founded in 1923, to expound their views.\n\nThe traditional Sanatan Dharma, was more orthodox than the Hindu-reformist Arya Samaj. It affirmed traditional Hindu rituals and prayers. However, Fijian Indians who practice Sanatana Dharma also do not have child marriages, as it is unheard of until the youths reach maturity age or level.\n\nA post-war effort by European members of the Legislative Council to repatriate ethnic Indians to India, starting with sixteen-year-old males and fourteen-year-old females, was not successful, but reflected the tensions between Fiji's ethnic communities.\n\nDifferences between ethnic Fijians and Indians complicated preparations for Fiji independence, which the United Kingdom granted in 1970, and have continued to define Fiji politics since. Prior to independence, Indians sought a common electoral roll, based on the principle of \"one man, one vote.\" Ethnic Fijian leaders opposed this, believing that it would favour urban voters who were mostly Indian; they sought a communal franchise instead, with different ethnic groups voting on separate electoral rolls. At a specially convened conference in London in April 1970, a compromise was worked out, under which parliamentary seats would be allocated by ethnicity, with ethnic Fijians and Indians represented equally. In the House of Representatives, each ethnic group was allocated 22 seats, with 12 representing \"Communal constituencies\" (elected by voters registered as members of their particular ethnic group) and a further 10 representing \"National constituencies\" (distributed by ethnicity but elected by universal suffrage. A further 8 seats were reserved for ethnic minorities, 3 from \"communal\" and 5 from \"national\" constituencies.\n\nIn 1987, shortly after a coalition government was formed that represented both communities, two military coups were staged by low-ranking Fijian officers that aimed at sidelining the Indian community in politics.\n\nEthnic Indians outnumbered indigenous Fijians from 1956 through the late 1980s. This was due to the death of 1/3 of the indigenous population, mainly male and children, that died from smallpox contracted when King Cakobau and other chief leaders returned from a trip from Australia during which they caught smallpox. The percentage of Indigenous female population increased as a result, and the native male population was scarce at one stage, but by 2000 their share of the population had declined to 43.7%, because of a higher ethnic-Fijian birthrate and particularly because of the greater tendency of Fijian Indians to emigrate. Emigration accelerated following the coups of 1987 (which removed an Indian-supported government from power and, for a time, ushered in a constitution that discriminated against them in numerous ways) and of 2000 (which removed an Indian Prime Minister from office).\n\nPolitical differences between the two communities, rather than ideological differences, have characterised Fijian politics since independence, with the two communities generally voting for different political parties. The National Federation Party founded by A.D. Patel, was the party favoured overwhelmingly by the Indian community throughout most of the nation's history, but its support collapsed in the parliamentary election of 1999, when it lost all of its seats in the House of Representatives; its support fell further still in the 2001 election, when it received only 22% of the Indian vote, and in the 2006 election, when it dropped to an all-time low of 14%. The party formerly favoured by Indians was the Fiji Labour Party, led by Mahendra Chaudhry, which received about 75% of the Indian vote in 2001, and won all 19 seats reserved for Indians. Founded as a multi-racial party in the 1980s, it was supported mostly by Indians, but has seen no representation in parliament since the coup of 2006.\n\nThe Church plays a major role in Fiji politics. Often some leaders appeal to Fijians addressing them as \"Christians\", even though Hindus are 33% of the\npopulation in Fiji, compared with 52% Christians. The 2000 Fijian coup d'état that removed the elected PM Mahendra Chaudhry, was supported by the Methodist church.\n\nSome Methodist Church authorities have continued to advocate the establishment of a Christian state. In a letter of support from the then head of the Methodist Church, Reverend Tomasi Kanilagi, to George Speight, the leader of 19 May 2000, armed takeover of Parliament, Reverend Kanilagi publicly expressed his intention to use the Methodist Church as a forum under which to unite all ethnic Fiji political parties. The Methodist church also supported forgiveness to those who plotted the coup in form of so-called \"Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill\".\n\nIn 2005, Methodist church general secretary Reverend Ame Tugaue argued that practice of Hinduism and other religions should not be guaranteed in law:\n\nFollowing the military coup in Fiji, which deposed the government of Laisenia Qarase (which Indians claimed as unsympathetic to Indian interests), Reverend Tuikilakila Waqairatu of the Fiji Council of Churches and Assembly of Christian Churches has stated that the coup is \"un-Christian\" and is \"manifestation of darkness and evil\". He claimed that \"52% of Fijians are Christian and the country's Christian values are being undermined.\"\n\nIndo Fijians are concentrated in the so-called Sugar Belt and in cities and towns on the northern and western coasts of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu; their numbers are much scarcer in the south and inland areas. The majority of Fijian Indians came from northern and southeastern part of India and converse in what is known as the Fiji Hindi language that has been coined from the eastern Hindi dialects mixed with some native Fijian and small numbers of English words, with some minorities speaking Gujarati, and Punjabi, and many who speak Tamil as their mother tongue with less fluency. Almost all Indians are also fluent in English.\n\nAccording to the 1996 census (the latest available), 76.7% of Indians are Hindus and a further 15.9% are Muslims. Christians comprise 6.1% of the Indian population, while about 0.9% are members of the Sikh faith. The remaining 0.4% are mostly nonreligious.\n\nHindus in Fiji belong mostly to the Sanātana Dharma sect (74.3% of all Hindus); a minority (3.7%) follow Arya Samaj. Smaller groups, including The International Society for Krishna Consciousness, and numerous unspecified Hindu sects, comprise 22% of the Hindu population. Muslims are mostly Sunni (59.7%) or unspecified (36.7%); there is an Ahmadiya minority (3.6%). Indian Christians are a diverse body, with Methodists forming the largest group (26.2%), followed by the Assemblies of God (22.3%), Roman Catholics (17%), and Anglicans (5.8%). The remaining 28.7% belong to a medley of denominations. There is an Indian Division of the Methodist Church in Fiji. About 5000 Indians are Methodist. They are part of the Methodist Church in Fiji and support the position of the Methodist Church in Fiji, rather than the rights of Indians.\n\nFormer Prime Minister Chaudhry has expressed alarm at the high rate of emigration of educated Fiji-Indians. \"If the trend continues, Fiji will be left with a large pool of poorly educated, unskilled work force with disastrous consequences on our social and economic infrastructure and levels of investment,\" he said on 19 June 2005. He blamed the coups of 1987 for \"brain drain\" which has, he said, adversely affected the sugar industry, the standard of the education and health services, and the efficiency of the civil service.\n\nFiji Indians face major obstacles when it comes to health. They are often cited in research articles as a group that has a higher than normal prevalence rate of Type 2 diabetes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28256821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28256821", "title": "Internal Market Information System", "text": "Internal Market Information System\n\nThe Internal Market Information System (IMI) is an IT-based network that links public bodies in the European Economic Area. It was developed by the European Commission together with the Member States of the European Union to speed up cross-border administrative cooperation. IMI allows public administrations at national, regional and local level to identify their counterparts in other countries and to exchange information with them. Pre-translated questions and answers as well as machine translation make it possible for them to use their own language to communicate.\n\nInternal market legislation of the European Union (EU) makes it mandatory for competent authorities in Member States to assist their counterparts abroad by providing them with information. Some legislation also requires communication between Member States and the European Commission (for example for the notification of national implementing measures of European Union law). IMI has been developed in order to facilitate this day-to-day exchange of information.\n\nIMI was launched in February 2008. Development and maintenance has been funded by the programme Interoperability Solutions for European Public Administrations (ISA) since July 2010. ISA is the successor to the IDABC program, which initially funded IMI and came to an end on 31 December 2009. \n\nIMI is one of the governance tools of the Single Market. Other such tools are Your Europe, Your Europe Advice, Solvit and the Points of Single Contact. \nIMI applies a \"Privacy by Design\" approach – integrating privacy and data protection compliance in all stages of the design of IMI – which has been developed in consultation with the European Data Protection Supervisor (EDPS).\nAdministrative coordination is legally determinate and provided in a form of legal assistance between responsible institutions. In the case of the IMI system, administrative coordination encompasses some modes of administrative cooperation related to information provision (information exchange or data provision); shared administrative procedures execution (obligation to execute a single administrative decision/act by an institution from different Member States) and networking on a specific institutional structure (working of agencies or groups in formalised policy implementation processes)\n\nIMI has been rolled out in a decentralised way. Therefore, the practical implementation of IMI is the responsibility of the individual Member States. There are several actors that play a role in the IMI network.\n\nCompetent authorities are the end users of IMI. They are public bodies that have been given the responsibility to deal with certain elements of application of internal market legislation. They can function on national, regional or local level.\n\nThere is one national IMI coordinator (NIMIC) per Member State, often located in a national ministry. Their task is to ensure the smooth operation of IMI in their country. IMI coordinators may delegate some of their responsibilities to additional coordinators who are in charge of, for example, one legislative area or a geographical region, depending on each Member State’s administrative structures.\n\nThe European Commission is responsible for maintenance and development of the tool, helpdesk services and training. It also manages and supports the network of IMI coordinators, promotes further expansion of IMI and reports on the functioning of the system. \n\nIMI offers a number of workflows to its users in order to facilitate different types of administrative cooperation across the Member states of the European Economic Area. \n\nWhen a competent authority needs information from a counterpart abroad, it can send a request for information. This exchange mechanism uses lists of pre-translated questions and answers available in all EU languages. It is also possible to attach documents. Only the competent authorities that are directly involved in an information exchange have access to the content. A practical example of an information request is when a German teacher would like to continue his activities in Portugal. The Portuguese authority needs to verify the authenticity of his scanned diploma. It can then use IMI to send an information request to its partner authority in Germany. This authority can accept the request and send an answer back to the authority in Portugal. Due to the pre-translated question and answer sets, both authorities can communicate in their own language.\n\nNotifications are based on one-to-many information exchanges where authorities can alert or notify one or more competent authorities and/or the European Commission. For example, the Services Directive requires that Member States alert each other of possible dangers to the health and safety of people or to the environment caused in the provision of services.\n\nIMI information repositories are databases storing specific information for certain policy areas. An example of such a repository is the directory of registers maintained by competent authorities throughout the European Economic Area. This directory is equipped with multilingual search functions. The content of a repository can be accessed either by a restricted group of competent authorities or by all IMI users.\n\nIMI is used in all Member States of the European Economic Area for the administrative cooperation required by the Directive on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications (2005/36/EC), by the Directive on services in the internal market (2006/123/EC) and, on a pilot basis, by the Posting of Workers Directive. Since November 2012, it provides a repository for information on licence holders for the cross-border road transport of Euro cash and an IT platform for the problem solving network Solvit. IMI is being expanded to cover further legislative areas. For example, the Directive on Patients' Rights in Cross-border Healthcare.\nIMI aims to \"become a flexible toolkit at the service of administrative cooperation, contributing to the improved governance of the Internal Market.\" \n\nThe IMI Regulation which came into force in December 2012 is an EU law establishing a comprehensive legal framework for IMI. It provides a complete set of rules for the processing of personal data in IMI and prescribes a method for future expansion of IMI to additional policy areas.\n\n"}
{"id": "2255412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2255412", "title": "Kerek language", "text": "Kerek language\n\nKerek () is an extinct language of Russia of the northern branch of the Chukotko-Kamchatkan languages. On historical linguistic grounds it is most closely related to Koryak (both languages have a merger of the proto-Chuktotian phonemes /*ð/ and /*r/ with /*j/). The next closest relative is Chukchi (/*ð/ and /*r/ are merged, but not /*j/).\n\nIn 1997 there were still two speakers remaining, but by 2005 the language was considered extinct. According to the 2010 census, there were 10 people claiming Kerek as their native language, a number which may include partial speakers and non-speakers who claim the language as part of their ethnic heritage. Over the 20th century many members of the Kerek ethnic group shifted to Chukchi, the language of the majority ethnic group in the area, but now most Chukchis and Kereks speak Russian.\n\nKerek is an agglutinative language, meaning that the morphemes build on each other to have different meanings. \n\n"}
{"id": "1812595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1812595", "title": "Kingdom of Burundi", "text": "Kingdom of Burundi\n\nThe Kingdom of Burundi () or Kingdom of Urundi (\"Royaume d'Urundi\") was a polity ruled by a traditional monarch in modern-day Republic of Burundi in the Great Lakes region of East Africa. The kingdom, majority ethnic Hutu, was ruled by a monarch from the Tutsi ethnic group with the title of \"mwami\". Created in the 17th century, the kingdom was preserved under European colonial rule in the late 19th and early 20th century and was an independent state between 1962 and 1966.\n\nThe date of the foundation of the Kingdom of Burundi is unknown but probably dates back to the 17th century when the Tutsi ethnic group gained dominance over the larger ethnic Hutu population of the region. Under \"mwami\" Ntare I (1675–1705), the kingdom expanded and annexed a number of surrounding polities. Although ruled by the \"mwami\", the kingdom was extensively decentralised and local sub-rulers had wide independence. Before the arrival of European colonists, succession struggles were also common.\n\nIn 1890, Burundi became part of the German colonial empire as part of German East Africa but was not effectively occupied or controlled by the colonial power. During World War I, Belgian troops from the neighbouring Belgian Congo invaded the region and occupied it. The Belgians were awarded Burundi, together with the neighbouring Kingdom of Rwanda, as an international mandate by the League of Nations. The Belgians, however, preserved many of the kingdom's institutions intact.\n\nWhereas the similar Rwandan monarchy was abolished in a revolution between 1959 and 1961, the Burundian monarchy succeeded in surviving into the post-colonial period. In 1962, the Kingdom of Burundi regained its independence as a constitutional monarchy in which the \"mwami\" held executive power and legislative power was given to the parliament. Ethnic violence between the Hutu majority and the Tutsi minority rose, however, between 1963 and 1965 and culminated with a failed coup d'état against the monarchy of Mwambutsa IV in 1965. Mwambutsa's son, Ntare V, deposed his father in a July 1966 coup d'état, but was himself ousted from power in a November 1966 coup d'état by his Prime Minister, Michel Micombero, who abolished the monarchy.\n\nMost members of the royal house live in exile in France today. In the 2005 elections, Princess Esther Kamatari ran for president for the Party for the Restoration of Monarchy and Dialogue in Burundi (Abahuza). Supporters believe that a restoration of a constitutional monarchy could help to ease the country's ethnic tensions.\n\nThe flag of the kingdom contained a \"karyenda\" in the center as a symbol of royal authority.\n\n"}
{"id": "24831727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24831727", "title": "Lavengro", "text": "Lavengro\n\nLavengro: The Scholar, the Gypsy, the Priest (1851) is a work by George Borrow, falling somewhere between the genres of memoir and novel, which has long been considered a classic of 19th-century English literature. According to the author \"lav-engro\" is a Romany word meaning \"word master\". The historian G. M. Trevelyan called it \"a book that breathes the spirit of that period of strong and eccentric characters\".\n\nIts protagonist, whose name is George, is born the son of an officer in a militia regiment and is brought up in various barrack towns in England, Scotland and Ireland. After serving an apprenticeship to a lawyer he moves to London and becomes a Grub Street hack, an occupation which gives him ample opportunities to observe London low-life. Finally he takes to the road as a tinker. At various points through the book he associates with Romany travellers, of whom he gives memorable and generally sympathetic pen-portraits. \"Lavengro\" was followed by a sequel, \"The Romany Rye\". However, neither of the two books are self-contained. Rather, \"Lavengro\" ends abruptly with chapter 100, and carries on directly in \"The Romany Rye\". Thus both need to be read together, in order.\n\nBorrow began work on \"Lavengro\" in 1842 and had written most of it by the end of 1843, but progress was then interrupted by a tour of eastern Europe and by bouts of ill-health, physical and mental. He certainly intended the book to be an autobiography when he first set to work, and while writing it he more than once called it his Life in letters to his publisher, John Murray. In 1848 Murray advertised it as a forthcoming work to be called \"Lavengro, an Autobiography\". However the version Borrow finally delivered had been reshaped into an autobiographical novel whose fictional episodes are inextricably intertwined with genuine memoir. Only the \"scholar\" in the book's subtitle refers to Borrow.\n\nThe first edition had a print-run of only 3000 copies; it was such a slow seller that no reprint was needed until 1872. Nor was it a critical success, reviewers being annoyed by the mix of fact and fiction and finding the treatment of Romany life insufficiently quaint. \"Blackwood's Magazine\" brought in a typical verdict:\nWe looked for some new revelations on the subjects of fortune-telling, hocus-pocus, and glamour. Lavengro, with his three attributes like those of Vishnu, might possibly be the Grand Cazique, the supreme prince of the nation of tinkers!\n\nWe have read the book, and we are disappointed. The performance bears no adequate relation to the promise…The adventures, though interesting in their way, neither bear the impress of the stamp of truth, nor are they so arranged as to make the work valuable, if we consider it in the light of fiction.\n\nAfter Borrow's death in 1881 \"Lavengro\" began to find a new audience and enthusiastic praise from critics. Theodore Watts, in an introduction to the 1893 edition, declared that \"There are passages in \"Lavengro\" which are unsurpassed in the prose literature of England\". This edition started a run of reprints which produced one or more almost every year for 60 years. \"Lavengro\" was included in the Oxford University Press World's Classics series in 1904, and in Everyman's Library in 1906.\n\nFull-text online editions\n\nCriticism\n"}
{"id": "30735144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30735144", "title": "Montefiore Club", "text": "Montefiore Club\n\nThe Montefiore Club was a private social and business association, catering to the Jewish community, located in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n\nFounded in 1880, the club was originally called the \"Montefiore Social and Dramatic Club\", named for Sir Moses Haim Montefiore, the British-Jewish philanthropist. It was established by 11 people, all quite young, with ages ranging from 15 to 23, as a social club for young Jewish people. It held fundraising balls to help Jewish refugees, and plays that were produced to fund welfare programs for immigrants. Later renamed the \"Montefoire Club\", and modelled on upper class gentlemen's clubs of London, it functioned as a private social and business association, catering to members of the Jewish community.\n\nAmong its members, were \"well-to-do\" members of the Jewish community, who were excluded from elite Anglophone clubs such as the St. James and the Mount Royal.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the club had more than 600 paying members.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, $500,000 was spent on renovations to the building.\n\nIn 2005, after experiencing a decline in membership, new policies were introduced:\n\nIn its final years, the building was used frequently by Concordia University, usually for social events.\n\nIn the summer of 2010, after experiencing years of financial difficulties, the club closed.\n\nTo obtain membership, a contribution to the life of Montreal's Jewish community was prerequisite.\n\nThe location of the Montefoire Club itself changed locations three times, the last being its 1195 Guy Street address, where it remained for 104 years, until its closure. The Guy Street location displayed no sign, with only a green canopy identifying it. The building is a large, three-storey Victorian greystone.\n\nThe Guy Street location had a luxurious interior, with high ceilings, and a lobby built with large oak beams in a Dutch style. The rooms were carpeted, with deep-cusioned chairs and sofas, and walls of fine carved wood. Card rooms were located on the second floor, with bedrooms on the third floor that were made available on a temporary basis for members. Wives and children were forbidden access to the second and third floors.\n\nThe club was open seven days a week, and often rented out its facilities for community events. The cuisine was considered among the finest in the city, and although having a Jewish clientele, the club was never kosher.\n\nThroughout its history, the club was as a venue for many notable meetings involving prominent members of the Jewish community.\n\n\nIn the summer of 2010, after operating for 130 years, and with only 72 paying members, the club closed. It had been experiencing financial difficulties, and had insufficient membership to remain open.\n\nAt the time of its closure, the club had used all of its financial reserves, and was operating at a deficit of approximately $25,000 per month. With an annual operating budget of about $750,000, and full fees being only about $2,000 (among the lowest for Montreal's private clubs), the club was unable to remain operation.\n\nThe organization sold the building to Concordia University. It will be renovated, and then used for meetings, events, and academic conferences.\n\nThe proceeds from the sale of the premises will be used to pay costs and staff severances. Remaining funds, expected to amount to approximately $1.5 million, will be donated to the Jewish Community Foundation of Montreal for Jewish education, and to Concordia University to fund a Jewish studies endowment.\n\nThe contents of the building, which includes artwork, will be auctioned to members, with remaining items made available to the general public.\n\nThe club plans to donate its substantial archives to the Jewish Public Library.\n\nNotable former members include:\n\nSome past presidents include:\n\nTo support scholarships for Concordia University graduate students, an endowment has been established. Recipients will be \"Moses Montefiore Fellows\".\n\nA plaque commemorating Moses Montefiore will be attached to the Guy Street building with the enscription:\n\"In memory of Sir Moses Montefiore for his lifelong philanthropy and service to world Jewry\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2280554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280554", "title": "Mungo people", "text": "Mungo people\n\nThe Mungo (Moungo) are an ethnic group of the Republic of Cameroon. Along with the other coastal peoples, they belong to the Sawa ethnic groups. The Mungo have historically been dominated by the Duala people, and the two groups share similar cultures, histories, and claims of origin.\n\nThe Mungo share no singular origin story. Some claim the same history as the Duala and Limba, descending from a man named Mbedi. From a place called Piti (northeast of Douala), Mbedi's sons Ewale and Dibongo migrated south toward the Cameroon coast. while others trace their ancestry to a man named Lokula who migrated east from near Efik territory in modern-day Nigeria. The former tradition seems more likely, however, and the Nigerian story possibly indicates that later settlers entered Limba country from Efik territories at some point and assimilated.\n\nBy the 16th century, the Duala had become the leading traders in Cameroon. The Mungo provided goods and slaves to the Duala in exchange for goods obtained from the Europeans, such as alcohol, gunpowder, guns, mirrors, shoes, textiles, and tools.\n\nIn 1918, Germany lost World War I, and her colonies became mandates of the League of Nations. Great Britain and France split the administration of the Kameruns, partitioning the Cameroonian Littoral. The Mungo were divided in two.\nThe Mungo live along the Mungo River's lower stretch and the creeks that feed it. Their territory straddles the border of the Moungo division of the Littoral Province and the Fako division of the Southwest Province. Fishing is the primary means of subsistence.\n\nThe Mungo who speak a dialect of Duala. Duala is part of the Bantu group of the Niger–Congo language family.\n\nIn addition, individuals who have attended school or lived in an urban centre usually speak a European language. For Littoral Mungo, this is French; for Southwest Mungo, it is Cameroonian Pidgin English or standard English; and for the Mungo it is one or the other. A growing number of the Anglophones today grow up with Pidgin as their first tongue.\n\nThe Mungo are part of the lively musical heritage of the Cameroon Littoral. Ambasse bey, a style of folk music marrying guitar with found-object percussion, developed in the 1950s in the Mungo area. Makossa, a popular musical style in West and Central Africa, originated with the Duala around this same time. The style mixes jazz, highlife, and soul with African traditional music.\n\nThe Mungo are regular attendees of the annual Ngondo, a traditional festival of the Sawa peoples. The goal is to communicate with the ancestors and ask them for guidance and protection for the future. The festivities also include armed combat, beauty pageants, pirogue races, and traditional wrestling.\n\nThe Mungo are Bantu in language and origin. More narrowly, they fall into the Sawa, or the coastal peoples of Cameroon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24885758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24885758", "title": "Ngaju people", "text": "Ngaju people\n\nNgaju are indigenous people of Borneo from the Dayak group. The Ngaju people first appeared as a newly recognized people group in census 2000 and were made up of 18.02% of Central Kalimantan population, which before this the Ngaju people were considered as part of the Dayak people in a 1930 census. They speak Ngaju language.\n\nBased on river stream regions, the Ngaju people are divided into:-\n\nBased on linguistic cluster, the Ngaju people are divided into:-\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4467585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467585", "title": "Paquet congo", "text": "Paquet congo\n\nPaquet congo () are Haitian spiritual objects made by vodou priests and priestesses (houngans and mambos) during ceremonies. Their name comes from the ancient Kongo Kingdom in Africa, where similar objects called nikisi wambi are found. \n\nKongolese nkisi use different materials from the Haitian paquet, however. A paquet is a collection of magical ingredients - herbs, earth, vegetable matter - wrapped in fabric and decorated with feathers, ribbons and sequins. \n\nPaquet congo are said to have the power of “heating” or activating the loa. Hence the term pwen cho (hot point) sometimes used to refer to them. Paquet serve as power objects and are kept on vodou altars and used in healing ceremonies. They are also used as protective amulets in people’s homes, bringing health, wealth and happiness. \n\nTheir efficacy supposedly depends on a technique of careful wrapping - seven or nine times – symbolic of an umbilical cord connecting the charm to the universe. Indeed, their appearance roughly resembles that of a human body (some have arms), and their colors and ornamentation are sometimes, but not always, symbolic of a specific loa.\n"}
{"id": "3275452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3275452", "title": "Penelope Kenny", "text": "Penelope Kenny\n\nPenelope Kenny (died December 27, 1739) was executed by hanging for the murder of her child in New Hampshire along with Sarah Simpson, who was also convicted of murdering her child.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57160106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57160106", "title": "Potdar", "text": "Potdar\n\nPotdar was a hereditary office held by people belonging to the Deshastha Brahmin and the Daivadnya communities (sometimes by other Marathi Brahmins), which formed part of Maratha revenue system, as well as the local administrative body in the state of Maharashtra. \n\n\"Potdar,\" derived from Persian \"Fotdar,\" literally means \"purse bearar\" or Treasurer. They were in charge of testing the genuineness weight of minted coins. Along with Kulkarni,Joshi, Gurav, Lohar, Kumbhar, Parit, Nhavi, Sutar, Chambhar, Mahar and Mang,who came from different castes, the \"Potdar\" formed a part of Bara Balutedar system.\n\nThe privilege of \"Potdari\" was granted by the Peshwa to a person who could advance a fixed sum of rupees to the government. The Potdar was to examine the coins used in of day-to-day transactions. In exchange for their services, they were granted hereditary rights (\"Vatan\") to a share in the village harvest.\n\n\"Potdar\" is a common Maharashtrian surname used by families whose ancestors held the office.\n"}
{"id": "33125435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33125435", "title": "Prostitution in Bhutan", "text": "Prostitution in Bhutan\n\nProstitution in Bhutan is illegal but in many of Bhutan's border towns there are people openly practicing in the sex trade. Prostitution mainly occurs in bars, clubs & hotels. Some of the sex workers are employed by bar and hotel owners to attract customers. Prostitution also occurs in the capital, Thimphu.\n\nThere are thought to be 400 - 500 sex workers in the country, many from poor backgrounds who enter prostitution for financial reasons.\n\nIn 2017, the NGO \"Lhak-Sam\" proposed that sex work was legalised by the government, but the proposal was turned down.\n\nSex trafficking is a problem in the country.\n\nBhutan is becoming a destination for sex tourism for people from the West and India. Some high-end prostitutes are involved, tourists being more likely to be able to afford their fees. Some of the tourists are looking for sex with boys and girls.Guides Association of Bhutan The \"Guides Association of Bhutan\" report some tourists are demand female 'guides' to accompany them during their stay in the country.Guides Association of Bhutan\n\nThe Penal Code of Bhutan criminalises prostitution:\n\nCHAPTER 26 - PROSTITUTION AND RELATED OFFENCES\n\nBhutan is a source and destination country for women and children vulnerable to sex trafficking. Bhutanese girls, working as domestic servants and entertainers in drayungs or karaoke bars, may be subjected to sex trafficking, coerced by debt and threats of physical abuse.\n\nThe United States Department of State Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons ranks Bhutan as a 'Tier 2 Watch List' country.\n\n"}
{"id": "54580169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54580169", "title": "Public Art Festival", "text": "Public Art Festival\n\nPublic Art Festival is a biennial cultural framework, established in Athens, Greece by Andreas Fakis for the independent cultural organization Studio 4 in order to showcase forms of visual arts, conceptual art and film that fall into the public sphere.\n\nPublic Art Festival took place for the first time in Athens during September - October 2014, under the thematic of \"Multiformity\". The first edition of PAF was curated by Andreas Fakis, was spread out in three venues, namely: the Benaki Museum, the Greek Film Archive - Film Museum and Romantso and several outdoor locations, including Filopappou Hill, where the press conference of PAF took place and several walls, where murals were created and conserved.\n"}
{"id": "11870759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11870759", "title": "Public trial", "text": "Public trial\n\nPublic trial or open trial is a trial open to public, as opposed to the secret trial. The term should not be confused with show trial.\n\nThe Sixth Amendment to the United States Constitution establishes the right of the accused to a public trial.\n\nThe right to a public trial is strictly enforced, but is not absolute. Trials may in exceptional cases be regulated. Closures are decided case-by-case by the judge evaluating a claimed danger to a substantial or legitimate public interest. But whatever the interest at stake, the likelihood of danger to that interest must meet a \"‘substantial probability’ test\". Examples of cases presenting closure issues include organized crime cases (overall security concerns), rape cases (decency concerns), juvenile cases, and through the Silent witness rule and/or Classified Information Procedures Act, cases involving sensitive or 'classified' information.\n\nTrials may be closed at the behest of the government only if it can show \"an overriding interest based on findings that closure is essential to preserve higher values and is narrowly tailored to serve that interest\". The accused may also request a closure of the trial; in such a case, it must be demonstrated that \"first, there is a substantial probability that the defendant's right to a fair trial will be prejudiced by publicity that closure would prevent, and second, reasonable alternatives to closure cannot adequately protect the defendant's fair trial rights\".\n\nBut before a judge can close a courtroom, the judge must consider all potential alternatives to closure. This is a very strict standard; the Supreme Court has held that \"trial courts are required to consider alternatives to closure even when they are not offered by the parties,\" or by anyone else. In other words, a judge who does not want to be reversed on appeal must be confident that there cannot possibly be any alternative to closure that might later be conjured up by some appellate lawyer.\n\nPursuant to the open court principle and related legislation, legal proceedings are generally open to the public and the media.\n\nSection 135(1) of the \"Courts of Justice Act\" (Ontario) states the general principle that \"all court hearings shall be open to the public\". In Quebec, however, under the Quebec Act 1774 the French legal system (including non-public trials) was allowed to remain intact and there is no requirement in Quebec that trials be public.\n\nIn Soviet Union the terms \"open trial\" (открытый процесс) and \"public trial\" (публичный процесс) differed. The term \"open trial\" implied the possibility for public to be present at the hearings. The term \"public trial\" implied the purposeful presentation of the process to wide public. Public trials were usually widely discussed in media and hearings were often arranged in larger auditoria. While the Soviet public trials are commonly associated with Stalin era show trials, such as Moscow Trials, nevertheless in Russian culture the term \"public trial\" did not acquire negative connotations, despite the apparent attributes of a show, primarily because the publicity of any information in pre-glasnost era was severely limited by the Soviet state. The term \"show trial\" corresponds to Russian \"показной процесс\" (\"pokaznoy process\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30997525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30997525", "title": "Pulvermacher's chain", "text": "Pulvermacher's chain\n\nThe Pulvermacher chain, or in full as it was sold the Pulvermacher hydro-electric chain, was a type of voltaic battery sold in the second half of the 19th century for medical applications. Its chief market was amongst the numerous quack practitioners who were taking advantage of the popularity of the relatively new treatment of electrotherapy, or \"electrification\" as it was then known. Its unique selling point was its construction of numerous linked cells, rendering it mechanically flexible. A variant intended to be worn wrapped on part of the body for long periods was known as Pulvermacher's galvanic chain or electric belt.\n\nThe Pulvermacher Company attracted a great deal of antagonism from the medical community due to their use of the names of well-known physicians in their advertising without permission. The nature of their business; in selling to charlatans and promoting quack practices also made them unpopular with the medical community. Despite this, the Pulvermacher chain was widely reported as a useful source of electricity for medical and scientific purposes, even amongst the most vocal critics of the Pulvermacher Company.\n\nElectrically, the machine worked like a voltaic pile, but was constructed completely differently. The electrodes were copper for the cathode and zinc for the anode, with the electrolyte consisting of vinegar or some other weak acid, or a salt solution.\n\nEach cell consisted of a wooden dowel with a bifilar winding of copper and zinc wires. The dowels were helically grooved like a screw thread to locate the wires precisely in position. This enabled the copper and zinc wires to be placed very close to each other without coming into electrical contact. Insulated wires could not be used as this would interfere with the operation of the electrolyte. Copper wires were inserted into the ends of the dowels to which the copper and zinc windings were soldered. These end wires were either attached to, or formed into, hooks and eyes for attaching to other cells. This arrangement is depicted in figure 2. These attachments provided the electrical connections as well as the mechanical linkages.\n\nEach cell was connected to the next with the copper winding of one being connected to the zinc winding of the next and so on. The cells could be connected end-to-end, or for a more compact assembly side-by-side, in the manner of links in a chain. The voltage delivered by the assembly was controlled by the number of links thus incorporated and could become quite high, even though the current available was no more than from a single cell (to increase the current, the size of the cells must be increased). The shock delivered by such chains was described as \"strong\" for one chain of 120 links, and as \"sharp\" for another of 50 links.\n\nPrior to use, the chain was soaked in vinegar so that the electrolyte was absorbed into the wooden dowels. The wood of which the dowels were made was chosen to be a very porous type so that the amount of electrolyte absorbed was maximised. The chain would continue to produce a voltage until the dowels dried out, then the chain would have to be resoaked. Typically, the chain would be charged by slowly drawing it through a bowl of vinegar as shown in figure 4.\n\nA special link could be included in the chain which incorporated an interrupter circuit. The purpose of the interrupter is to rapidly connect and disconnect the circuit so that the normally steady current of the battery is turned into a rapidly varying current. The usual practice in the use of medical electrical batteries was to feed the output of the interrupter to an induction coil in order to increase the voltage applied to the patient by transformer action. In Pulvermacher's patent however, there is no mention of using induction coils - the Pulvermacher battery could produce large voltages merely by adding more links to the chain. However, the interrupter still had an effect in that an interrupted current produces a stronger sensation of electric shock in the patient than a steady current. A novel feature of Pulvermacher's interrupter was that it was operated by the action of a vibrating spring kept in motion by the movements of the patient without the need for any external input. Interrupters of the time typically had to be hand-cranked by the physician, although there were already some in existence using electro-mechanical automatic interrupters. Later versions of the Pulvermacher chain used clockwork driven interrupters whose rate of interruption could be adjusted so that the rate of shock to the patient could be controlled. Such a clockwork interrupter is fitted to the chain shown in figure 1. It is wound up by turning the handle at the left end.\n\nBy 1869 a variant of this chain had appeared. In this the wooden dowels were dispensed with, and instead a hollow tube of zinc or magnesium was used. The zinc tube itself formed the anode of the cell, and over this was wound the copper wire cathode, or in yet another version, rings of copper plates. The zinc tube and copper wire were kept apart by stitches of thread. Magnesium was not commonly used by battery manufacturers of the time due to its very high price (unlike today) compared to zinc. However, a cell made with magnesium in place of zinc produces around twice the voltage. More importantly for Pulvermacher, the cell would still output some voltage if the electrolyte was replaced with plain water. Pulvermacher marketed a type of chain that was designed to be worn wrapped around a limb being treated and was claimed to operate with body sweat acting as the electrolyte and no need to charge it with electrolyte from an external source. Pulvermacher also produced a smaller \"pocket version\" of the chain which had fewer links than the full 120-cell version.\n\nIsaac Lewis Pulvermacher was a physicist and inventor originally concerned with the electric telegraph. He first published details of his chain in August 1850 in German and in the winter of that same year came to Britain to demonstrate the machine to notable physicians. He visited London and Edinburgh on this trip. He gives his residence as Breslau, Kingdom of Prussia in his 1853 US patent. Prior to this, however, he had arrived in Britain from Vienna and all the British sources of the time describe him as \"of Vienna\".\n\nAt first, there was a very positive reaction to Pulvermacher. Early in 1851 Pulvermacher gave Golding Bird, a well known London physician with an interest in electrotherapy, a sample of the machine with which to experiment. Bird was impressed enough with it that he later gave a representative of the Pulvermacher Company a testimonial as a letter of introduction to physicians in Edinburgh. Bird thought that the battery would make a useful source of portable electricity and could be used for treating patients with some forms of paralysis in their homes. Contemporary equipment was not very portable, and in the case of friction machines required skilled operators to keep going. By October 1851 Bird felt that he had tested the device sufficiently to give it a glowing article in \"The Lancet\". But even at this early stage there were signs of disquiet. Even as he wrote the favourable report in \"The Lancet\" Bird felt the need to level criticism at the Pulvermacher Company's London agent, one C. Meinig, for promoting the device as a \"universal panacea\" for almost any imaginable complaint in the company's advertisements. Bird was a tireless opponent of quack practitioners, and was particular quick to criticise medically unqualified electrical treatment, as he felt this was a reason professional acceptance of his own work in electrotherapy was being held back. The quack practitioner market was the very sector that the Pulvermacher Company's unrestrained claims were aimed at. Nevertheless, Bird was gracious enough to specifically exclude Pulvermacher himself from responsibility for these \"injudiciously puffed\" claims.\n\nBy April 1853 the situation had become very acrimonuous. Meinig had been using extracts from the testimonial provided by Bird without permission in order to bolster the Company's, medically largely unsupported, quack advertising claims. Bird threatened a legal injunction but Meinig refused to desist and tried to imply that Bird was benefitting from the publicity. A letter writing campaign by one Dr. McIntyre against the Pulvermacher advertisements led to an exchange of letters in the \"Association Medical Journal\". Bird made plain that he had only ever recommended the chain as a convenient source of electricity and did not support any of the claimed curative powers, most especially those that were supposed to produce instant results (a typical course of electrotherapy at the time could last several months). He criticised some of the chains being sold as delivering \"too feeble\" a current to be of any medical use and pointed out that the proposed procedure of wrapping the device around an affected limb would make it useless since a conductive path through the skin across each cell would prevent a useful voltage being developed at the terminals (Pulvermacher even suggests in his patent that contact with the body generates enough electricity to be effective even without electrolyte). This resulted in the \"Journal\" removing the Pulvermacher advertisements from its pages. The \"Association Medical Journal\" was quickly followed by the \"Medical Times\" and with growing pressure on \"The Lancet\" to do the same this pretty much ended professional medical support for the device, at least for the time being.\n\nDespite this inauspicious start with the medical profession, the Pulvermacher chain continued to be described in scientific and medical journals and books as a useful tool throughout the late 1850s and 1860s, even being mentioned in the proceedings of the Royal Society. Even Bird, at the height of his dispute with the Pulvermacher company found himself able to say \"the \"battery\" of Pulvermacher is an ingenious and useful source of electricity...\" Although banned from much of the medical press, the Pulvermacher Company did not restrain its advertising claims or its use of notable names. The College of Dentists investigated its possible use as an anaesthetic during tooth extraction but found no benefit with the device frequently adding to the pain. In 1869, the Pulvermacher Company again found itself the subject of discussion in the medical press when they were involved in legal proceedings. This time the company was itself the victim of quacks when its product was pirated with poor quality imitations and this was the cause of the court case. The \"Medical Times\" was prompted by this to examine the efficacy of the Pulvermacher chain ending a long period of the paper ignoring it as a worthless quack instrument. The result was a very positive review of the chain's function and the reviewer particularly praised the workmanship.\n\nPulvermacher patented the chain battery in the US in 1853. This was soon followed by the wearable chain battery belt, or electric belt. Electric belts became enormously popular in the US, far more so than in Europe. This led to the company headquarters being moved to Cincinnati by the 1880s as the Pulvermacher Galvanic Company, but still calling themselves Pulvermacher's of London for the prestige of a European connection. Early models had to be soaked in vinegar before use as in England, but later on models that worked purely by galvanic action with body sweat were introduced. Since the device was being sold essentially as a quack cure it was only necessary to generate enough electricity that the wearer could feel it, no matter how slightly, and know that it was working.\n\nElectric belts were made for every conceivable part of the human anatomy: limbs, abdomen, chest, neck – sometimes all worn at the same time. Pulvermacher even had a model designed to attach to the male genitals in a special sac which was claimed to cure impotence and erectile dysfunction. Pulvermacher promoted a theory that loss of \"male vigour\" in later life was a consequence of masturbation in early life and that a limited supply of semen, which provided the vigour, would run out before time if wasted. Pulvermacher's device was meant to address this shortcoming.\n\nCompetition was very intense for this lucrative market and the claimed benefits became ever more extravagant. Amongst Pulvermacher's many competitors in the US were the German Electric Belt Company (actually New York based), Dr Crystal's, Dr. Horn's, Addison's, Edson's, Edison's, Owen's and Heidelberg's. Edison's was founded by Thomas Edison Junior, whose father was the famous Thomas Edison. Owen's was originally New York based but expanded across the country until they were put out of business due to fraud. In Europe too, there were competitors. The Medical Battery Company of England made a popular belt. They attempted (unsuccessfully) to sue the \"Electrical Review\" when that paper accused them of quackery in 1892. The Iona Company, an Oregon-based company founded by Henry Gaylord Wilshire was still selling belts in 1926 and making large profits: $36,000 ($ inflation adjusted) net from 2,445 belts in five months. By the end of the 1920s the electric belt's popularity had severely declined (but not the public's appetite for other quack electric cures) and the scientific market had long since moved on to better electrical generation technology than chain batteries.\n\nThe Pulvermacher chain, especially in the form of one being worn on the body, was very familiar in the late 19th and early 20th century and would not have needed to be explained to an audience. For instance, there are references to it in the novel \"Madame Bovary\" when the character Homais wearing a number of Pulvermacher chains is described as \"more bandaged than a Scythian\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3443827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3443827", "title": "Romanichal", "text": "Romanichal\n\nThe Romanichals (, ), also Romnichals, Rumnichals or Rumneys, are a Romani sub-group in the United Kingdom and other parts of the English-speaking world. \n\nRomanichals are thought to have arrived in England in the 16th century. They are closely related to the Welsh Kale and to other Romani groups in the United Kingdom and continental Europe.\n\nThe word \"Romanichal\" is derived from \"Romani chal\", where \"chal\" is Angloromani for \"fellow\".\n\nRomanichal are found across the United Kingdom, particularly England, Lowland Scotland and Wales. The Romanichal diaspora emigrated from the British Isles to other parts of the English-speaking world. Based on some estimates, there are now more people of Romanichal descent in the United States than in Britain. They are also found in smaller numbers in South Africa, Australia, Canada and New Zealand.\nThere also exists a small community in Malta who have colonial Romanichal ancestry.\n\nThe Romani people in England are thought to have spoken the Romani language until the 19th century, when it was replaced by English and Angloromani, a creole language that combines the syntax and grammar of English with the Romani lexicon. All Romanichals also speak English.\n\nMany Angloromani words have been incorporated into English, particularly in the form of British slang.\n\nThe Romani people have origins in India, specifically Rajasthan and began migrating westwards from the 11th century. The first groups of Romani people arrived in Great Britain by the end of the 15th century, escaping conflicts in Southeastern Europe (such as the Ottoman conquest of the Balkans).\n\nIn 1506 there are recorded Romani persons in Scotland, arrived from Spain and to England in 1512. Soon the leadership passed laws aimed at stopping the Romani immigration and at the assimilation of those already present.\n\nDuring the reign of Henry VIII, the Egyptians Act (1530) banned Romanies from entering the country and required those living in the country to leave within 16 days. Failure to do so could result in confiscation of property, imprisonment and deportation. During the reign of Mary I the act was amended with the Egyptians Act (1554), which removed the threat of punishment to Romanies if they abandoned their \"naughty, idle and ungodly life and company\" and adopted a settled lifestyle, but it increased the penalty for noncompliance to death.\n\nIn 1562 a new law offered Romanies born in England and Wales the possibility of becoming English subjects if they assimilated into the local population. Despite persecution and this new option, the Romani were forced into a marginal lifestyle and subjected to continuous discrimination from the state authorities and many non-Romanies. In 1596, 106 men and women were condemned to death at York just for being Romani, and nine were executed. Samuel Rid authored two early works about them in the early 17th century.\n\nFrom the 1780s, gradually, the anti-Romani laws were repealed, although not all. The identity of the Romanichals was formed between the years 1660 and 1800, as a Romani group living in Britain.\n\nEngland began to deport Romanichals as early as 1544, principally to Norway, a process that was continued and encouraged by Elizabeth I and James I. The Finnish Kale, a Romani group in Finland, maintain that their ancestors had originally been a Romani group who travelled from Scotland, thereby supporting the idea that they and the Scandinavian Travellers/Romani are distantly related to present-day Scottish Romani and English Romanichals.\n\nIn 1603 an Order in Council was made for the transportation of Romanichal to Newfoundland, the West Indies, France, Spain and the Low Countries. Other European countries forced the further transport of the Romani of Britain to the Americas. Many times those deported in this manner did not survive as an ethnic group, because of the separations after the round up, the sea passage and the subsequent settlement as slaves, all destroying their social fabric. At the same time, voluntary emigration began to the English overseas possessions. Romani groups which survived continued the expression of the Romani culture there.\n\nIn the years following the American War of Independence, Australia was the preferred destination for Romanichal transportation, due to its use as a penal colony. The exact number of British Romani deported to Australia is unknown. It has been suggested that three Romanichal were present on the First Fleet, one of whom was thought to be James Squire who founded Australia's first commercial brewery in 1798, and whose grandson James Farnell who became the first native-born Premier of New South Wales in 1877. The total Romani population seems to be an extremely low number when we consider that British Romani people made up just 0.01% of the original 162,000 convict population. However, it has been suggested that Romanichal were one of the main target groups and were discriminated against due to the transportation laws of England in the mid-18th century. It is often difficult to distinguish British Romani people of Wales and England from the majority of non-Romani convicts at the time, therefore the precise number of British Romanies transported is not known, although there are occurrences of Romani names and possible families within the convict population; however it is unclear if such people were members of the established Romani community. Fragmentary records do exist and it is thought with confidence at least fifty or more British Romanies may have been transported to Australia, although the actual figure could be higher. What is clear is that such deportation (as for all convicts) was particularly harsh:\n\n\"For Romani convicts transportation meant social and psychological death; exiled they had little hope of returning to England to re-establish family ties, cultural roots, continuous expression and validation that would have revived their Romani identity in the convict era.\"\n\nOne, however, is known to have returned. Henry Lavello (or Lovell) was repatriated with a full pardon with a son born to an Aboriginal woman who accompanied him back to England.\n\nRacism against Romanichal and other travelling peoples is still endemic within Britain. In 2008 the media reported that Romani experience a higher degree of racism than any other group in the UK, including asylum-seekers, and a Mori poll indicated that a third of UK residents admitted to being prejudiced against Romani.\n\nIn the 17th century Oliver Cromwell shipped Romanichals as slaves to the American southern plantations and there is documentation of English Romanies being owned by freed black slaves in Jamaica, Barbados, Cuba, and Louisiana. Gypsies, according to the legal definition, were anyone identifying themselves to be Egyptians or Gypsies. The works of George Borrow reflect the influences this had on the Romani Language of England and others contain references to Romanies being \"bitcheno pawdel\" or \"Bitchade pardel\", to be \"sent across\" to America or Australia, a period of Romani history not forgotten by Romanies in Britain today. One term reflects this in the contemporary Angloromani for \"magistrate\" is \"bitcherin' mush\", the \"transporter.\"\n\nHistorically, Romanichals earned a living doing agricultural work and would move to the edges of towns for the winter months. There was casual work available on farms throughout the spring, summer and autumn months; spring would start with seed sowing, planting potatoes and fruit trees, early summer with weeding, and there would be a succession of harvests of crops from summer to late autumn. Of particular significance was the hop industry, which employed thousands of Romanichals both in spring for vine training and for the harvest in early autumn. Winter months were often spent doing casual labour in towns or selling goods or services door to door.\n\nMass industrialisation of agriculture in the 1960s led to the disappearance of many of the casual farm jobs Romanichals had traditionally carried out.\n\nDuring the 20th century onwards Romanichals became, and remain, the mainstay of travelling funfairs, scrap metal dealing, horse dealing, tree surgery, tarmacking, asphalt paving, hawking, fortune telling and wooden rose making. They have also produced notable boxers such as Henry Wharton and Billy Joe Saunders as well as some notable footballers like Freddy Eastwood, and journalists, psychotherapists, nurses and all manner of professions.\n\nOriginally, Romanichals would travel on foot, or with light, horse-drawn carts, and typical of other Romani groups would build Bender tents where they settled for a time. A Bender is a type of tent constructed from a frame of bent hazel branches (hazel is chosen for its straightness and flexibility), covered with canvas or tarpaulin. These tents are still favoured by New Traveller groups.\n\nAround the mid- to late 19th century, Romanichals started using wagons that incorporated living spaces on the inside. These they called \"Vardos\" and were often brightly and colorfully decorated on the inside and outside. In the present day, Romanichals are more likely to live in caravans or houses.\n\nOver 60% of 21st-century Romanichal families live in houses of bricks and mortar whilst the remaining 40% still live in various forms of traditional Traveller modes of transport, such as caravans, trailers or static caravans (a small minority still live in Vardos).\n\nAccording to the Regional Spatial Strategy caravan count for 2008, there were 13,386 caravans owned by Romani in the West Midlands region of England, whilst a further 16,000 lived in bricks and mortar. Of the 13,386 caravans, 1,300 were parked on unauthorised sites (that is, on land where Romani were not given permission to park). \nOver 90% of Britain's travelling Romanichals live on authorised sites where they pay full rates (council tax).\n\nOn most traveller Romanichal sites there are usually no toilets or showers inside caravans because in Romanichal culture this is considered unclean, or 'mochadi'. Most sites have separate utility blocks with toilets, sinks and electric showers. Many Romanichals will not do their laundry inside, especially not underwear, and subsequently many utility blocks also have washing machines. In the days of horse-drawn wagons and Vardos, Romanichal women would do their laundry in a river, being careful to wash upper body garments further upstream from underwear and lower body garments, and personal bathing would take place much further downstream. In some modern trailers, a double wall separates the living areas from the toilet and shower.\n\nDue to the (British) Caravan Sites Act 1968 which greatly reduced the number of caravans allowed to be pitched on authorised sites, many Romanichals cannot find legal places on sites with the rest of their families.\n\nLike most nomadic groups, Romanichals travel around for work, usually following set routes and set stopping places (called ‘atching tans’) which have been established for hundreds of years. May traditional stopping places were established before land ownership changed and any land laws were in place. Many atching tans were established by feudal land owners in the Middle Ages, when Romani would provide agricultural or manual labour services in return for lodgings and food.\n\nToday, most Romani travel within the same areas that were established generations ago. Most people can trace their presence in an area back over a hundred or two hundred years. Many traditional stopping places were taken over by local government or by settled individuals decades ago and have subsequently changed hands numerous times; however Romani have long historical connections to such places and do not always willingly give them up. \nMost families are identifiable by their traditional wintering base, where they will stop travelling for the winter, and this place will be technically where a family is ‘from’.\n\nThe Enclosure Act of 1857 created the offence of injury or damage to village greens and interruption to its use or enjoyment as a place of exercise and recreation. The Commons Act 1876 makes encroachment or inclosure of a village green, and interference with or occupation of the soil unlawful unless it is with the aim of improving enjoyment of the green.\n\nThe Caravan Sites and Control of Development Act 1960 states that no occupier of land shall cause or permit the land to be used as a caravan site unless he is the holder of a site licence. It also enables a district council to make an order prohibiting the stationing of caravans on common land, or a town or village green. These acts had the overall effect of preventing travellers using the vast majority of their traditional stopping places, much to the relief of local residents.\n\nThe Caravan Sites Act 1968 required local authorities to provide caravan sites for travellers if there was a demonstrated need. This was resisted by many councils who would claim that there were no Romanies living in their areas. The result was that insufficient pitches were provided for travellers, leading to a situation whereby holders of a pitch could no longer travel, for fear of losing it.\n\nThe Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 removed the duty of local councils to provide authorised pitches and gave the Council and Police powers to move travellers on, subject to certain welfare issues. The official response of the government was that travellers should buy land and apply for planning permission to occupy it. However, those that did so found it extremely difficult to get planning permission, with more than 90% of applications by travellers refused.\n\nIn the first phase of the Second World War, the Nazis drew up lists of Romani individuals (many of them Romanichals) and persons with Romani ancestry from the United Kingdom to be interned and subjected to Porajmos in the event of the country's occupation.\n\nThe crisis of the 1960s decade, caused by the Caravan Sites Act 1968 (stopping new private sites being built until 1972), led to the appearance of the \"British Gypsy Council\" to fight for the rights of the Romanichals.\n\nIn the UK, the issue of \"travellers\" (referring to Irish Travellers and New Age Travellers as well as Romanichal and other groups of Romani people) became a 2005 general election issue, with the leader of the Conservative Party promising to review the Human Rights Act 1998. This law, which absorbs the European Convention on Human Rights into UK primary legislation, is seen by some to permit the granting of retrospective planning permission. Severe population pressures and the paucity of greenfield sites have led to \"travellers\" purchasing land and setting up residential settlements very quickly, thus subverting the planning restrictions.\n\nRomanichal including other ethnic groups of travellers, Irish Travellers and New Age Travellers, argued in response that thousands of retrospective planning permissions are granted in Britain in cases involving non-Romani applicants each year and that statistics showed that 90% of planning applications by Romanies and travellers were initially refused by local councils, compared with a national average of 20% for other applicants, disproving claims of preferential treatment favouring Romanies.\n\nThey also argued that the root of the problem was that many traditional stopping-places had been barricaded off and that the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 passed by the previous Conservative government had effectively criminalized their community, for example by removing local authorities’ responsibility to provide sites, thus leaving the travellers with no option but to purchase unregistered new sites themselves.\n\nGroups:\n\n \n"}
{"id": "371408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=371408", "title": "Sango language", "text": "Sango language\n\nSango (also spelled Sangho) is a creole language in the Central African Republic and the primary language spoken in the country. It is an official language of the Central African Republic, making the Central African Republic one of the few African countries with an indigenous language as an official language. It is used as a lingua franca across the country and had 450,000 native speakers in 1988. It also has 1.6 million second language speakers.\n\nThe creole is based on the Northern Ngbandi language. It was used as a trade language along the Ubangi River prior to French colonisation in the 1880s. In colloquial speech 90% of the language's vocabulary is Sango, whereas in more technical speech French loanwords constitute the majority.\n\nSome linguists, following William J. Samarin, classify it as a Ngbandi-based creole; however, others (like Marcel Diki-Kidiri, Charles H. Morrill) reject that classification and say that changes in Sango structures (both internally and externally) can be explained quite well without a creolization process.\n\nAccording to the creolization hypothesis, Sango is exceptional in that it is an African- rather than European-based creole. Although French has contributed numerous loanwords, Sango's structure is wholly African.\n\nA variety of Sango was used as a lingua franca along the Ubangi River before French colonization, in the late 1800s. The French army recruited Central Africans, causing them to increasingly use Sango as a means of interethnic communication. Throughout the 20th century, missionaries promoted Sango because of its wide usage.\n\nOriginally used by river traders, Sango arose as a lingua franca based on the Northern Ngbandi dialect of the Sango tribe, part of the Ngbandi language cluster, with some French influence.\n\nThe rapid growth of the city of Bangui since the 1960s has had significant implications for the development of Sango, with the creation, for the first time, of a population of first-language speakers. Whereas rural immigrants to the city spoke many different languages and used Sango only as a lingua franca, their children use Sango as their main (and sometimes only) language. That has led to a rapid expansion of the lexicon, including both formal and slang terms. Also, its new position as the everyday language of the capital city has led to Sango gaining greater status and being used increasingly in fields for which it was previously the norm to use French.\n\nSango is widespread in the Central African Republic, with 350,000 speakers at the 1970 census. It is also spoken as a lingua franca in southern Chad, where it is probably not spoken natively and its use is decreasing, and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where its use is increasing.\n\nToday, Sango is both a national and official language of the Central African Republic, which makes the Central African Republic one of the few African countries to have an indigenous language as an official language.\n\nA study by Taber (1964) indicates that some 490 native Sango words account for about 90% of colloquial speech; however, while French loanwords are much more rarely used, they account for the majority of the vocabulary, particularly in the speech of learned people. The situation might be compared to English, in which most of the vocabulary, particularly \"learned\" words, is derived from Latin, Greek, or French while the basic vocabulary remains strongly Germanic. However, more recent studies suggest that the result is specific to a particular sociolect, the so-called \"functionary\" variety. Morrill's work, completed in 1997, revealed that there were three sociologically distinct norms emerging in the Sango language: an urban \"radio\" variety which is ranked by 80% of his interviewees and has very few French loan words; a so-called \"pastor\" variety, which is scored 60%; and a \"functionary\" variety, spoken by learned people, who make the highest use of French loanwords while speaking Sango, which scores 40%.\n\nSango has seven oral and five nasal vowels. Vowel quality and number of nasalized vowels may be affected by the mother tongue of non-native speakers of Sango.\n\nPalatal affricates occur in loan words and certain dialects. Some dialects have alternations between [ᶬv] and [m], [ᵐb] and [ᵑ͡ᵐg͡b], [ᵐb] and [b], word-medial [l] and [r], and word-initial [h] and [ʔ]. [ᶬv] is quite rare.\n\nSyllable structure is generally CV. Consecutive vowels are rare but do occur. Consonants may be palatalized or labialized, orthographically C and C, respectively.\n\nWords are generally monosyllabic or bisyllabic but less commonly are trisyllabic. Four-syllable words are created via reduplication and compounding, and may also be written as two words (\"kêtêkêtê\" or \"kêtê kêtê\" 'tiny bit', \"walikundû\" or \"wa likundû\" 'sorcerer').\n\nSango has three basic tones (high, mid, and low), with contour tones also occurring, generally in French loanwords. Tones have a low functional load, but minimal pairs exist: \"dü\" 'give birth' versus \"dû\" 'hole'.\n\nMonosyllabic loan words from French usually have the tone pattern high-low falling (\"bâan\" 'bench' from French \"banc\"). In multisyllabic words all syllables carry low tone except the final syllable, which is lengthened and takes a descending tone. The final tone is generally mid-low falling for nouns ('ananäa' \"pineapple\" from French \"ananas\") and high-low falling for verbs ('aretêe' 'to stop' from French \"arrêter\").\n\nIn isolation, tones have ideolectal variation, and they may also be affected by the mother language of non-native speakers.\n\nSango is an isolating language with subject–verb–object word order, as in English. Noun phrases are of the form determiner-adjective-noun:\n\nPlurals are marked with the proclitic \"â-\", which precedes noun phrases:\n\n\"â-\" may be attached to multiple items in the noun phrase by some speakers, but this is less common:\n\nThe derivational suffix \"-ngö\" nominalizes verbs. It also changes all tones in the verb to mid:\nGenitives are normally formed with the preposition \"tî\" 'of':\n\nHowever, compounding is becoming increasingly common: \"dûngü\" 'well' (note the change in tone). Such compounds are sometimes written as two separate words.\n\nThe verbal prefix \"a-\" is used when the subject is a noun or noun phrase but not when the subject is either a pronoun or implicit (as in imperatives):\n\nThe prefix is sometimes written as a separate word.\n\nThe pronouns are \"mbï\" \"I\", \"mo\" \"you (singular)\", \"lo\" \"he, she, it\", \"ë\" \"we\", \"ï\" \"you (plural)\", \"âla\" \"you (plural)\", \"âla\" \"they\". Verbs take a prefix \"a-\" if not preceded by a pronoun: \"mo yeke\" \"you are\" but \"Bêafrîka ayeke\" \"Central Africa is\". Particularly useful verbs include \"yeke\" \"be\", \"bara\" \"greet\" (> \"bara o\" \"hi!\"), \"hînga\" \"know\". Possessives and appositives are formed with the word \"tî\" \"of\": \"ködörö tî mbï\" \"my country\", \"yângâ tî sängö\" \"Sango language\". Another common preposition is \"na\", covering a variety of locative, dative, and instrumental functions.\n\nSango began being written by French missionaries, with Catholic and Protestant conventions differing slightly. The 1966 Bible and 1968 hymnal were highly influential and still used today.\n\nIn 1984, President André Kolingba signed 'Décret No 84.025', establishing an official orthography for Sango. The official Sango alphabet consists of 22 letters:\nLetters are pronounced as their IPA equivalent except for , pronounced as [j]. Also, the digraphs are pronounced , , , , , , and , respectively.\n\n, , and may be used in loan words not fully integrated into Sango's phonological system.\n\nThe official orthography contains the following consonants: : some add for the implosive . Sango has seven oral vowels, , of which five, , occur nasalized. In the official orthography, stands for both and , and stands for both and ; nasal vowels are written .\n\nSango has three tones: low, mid, and high. In standard orthography, low tone is unmarked, , mid tone is marked with diaeresis, , and high tone with circumflex, : \"do-re-mi\" would be written .\n\nSango has little written material apart from religious literature, but some basic literacy material has been developed.\n\nSango is considered unusually easy to learn; according to Samarin, \"with application a student ought to be able to speak the language in about three months.\" However, reaching true fluency takes much longer, as with any other language.\n\nFor English-speakers there are two main difficulties. One must remember not to split double consonants: Bambari, for example, must be pronounced ba-mba-ri, not bam-ba-ri. Also, as with any other tonal language, one must learn not to vary the tone according to the context. For example, if one pronounces a question with a rising tone as in English, one may inadvertently be saying an entirely different and inappropriate Sango word at the end of the sentence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7435281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7435281", "title": "Slovaks of Romania", "text": "Slovaks of Romania\n\nThe Slovaks (\"Slováci\" in Slovak, \"slovaci\" in Romanian) are an ethnic minority in Romania, numbering 17,199 people according to the 2002 census and hence making up 0.1% of the total population. Slovaks mainly live in western Romania, with the largest populations found in Bihor and Arad counties, where they make up 1.22% and 1.25% of the population, respectively.\n\nThe largest concentrations of ethnic Slovaks can be found in Șinteu (Nová Huta), Bihor County, where they make up nearly all (96.37%) of the population, and in Nădlac (Nadlak), Arad County, where they make up almost half (43.85%) of the population. Other towns and communes with significant Slovak populations include:\n\n\nAs an officially recognized ethnic minority, Slovaks, together with Czechs, have one seat reserved in the Romanian Chamber of Deputies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54765315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54765315", "title": "Swiss Tamils", "text": "Swiss Tamils\n\nSwiss Tamils refer to the Swiss citizens of Tamil as well as expatriate residents of Tamil origin living in Switzerland. Most of the Tamils in Switzerland are from Sri Lanka, who came to Switzerland during 1980s and 1990s as refugees due to the Sri Lankan Civil War. The Tamils are well integrated in the Swiss society and have proved themselves as a hard-working people and many young Tamils are doing well in school. Swiss Tamils are socially and culturaly not so integrated in Swiss culture. Tamil values are still strong among the community, caste system and arranged wedding are common. The second generation seem to be better integrated than the first generation, but most still follow the old ways.\n\n35,000 Tamils living in Switzerland and 10% of them have a Swiss citizenship The Tamils in Switzerland live mainly in the German-speaking areas, such as cantons Bern, Zurich and Basel.\n\nThe majority of Hindus in Switzerland are Tamils. Between 1990s and 2000s, were around twenty Hindu temples founded by the Tamils. The Sri Sivasubramaniar Temple in Zurich is the most famous and largest Hindu temple in Switzerland. Most of Tamil Christians in Switzerland are integrated in Swiss parishes. The majority of Tamil Christians live in canton Zurich.\n\nSwitzerland was one of the few Sri Lankan Tamil diaspora countries, where the Tamil Tigers could act legally. During the last phase of Sri Lankan civil war, more than 10 000 Tamils protested in front of the United Nations Office in Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "25800738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25800738", "title": "Tavern Club (Cleveland, Ohio)", "text": "Tavern Club (Cleveland, Ohio)\n\nThe Tavern Club is a private social club in the Central neighborhood of Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Its home is a building designed by architect J. Milton Dyer in a Northern Renaissance style. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984. It was also designated as a landmark by the City of Cleveland.\n\nDyer was a member of the Tavern Club, which was established 1892-93. He designed a building for the group when it moved from a leased property at 968 Prospect Street to its present building on January 1, 1905. \"The exterior construction and the traditional interior decor of the building\" have remained essentially the same since the club's beginning.\n\nThe upstairs originally contained two squash courts and a rackets court.\n\n"}
{"id": "293588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293588", "title": "Teledildonics", "text": "Teledildonics\n\nTeledildonics (also known as cyberdildonics) is technology for remote sex (or, at least, remote mutual masturbation), where tactile sensations are communicated over a data link between the participants. The term can also refer to the integration of telepresence with sexual activity that these interfaces make possible — the term was coined in 1975 by Ted Nelson in his book \"Computer Lib / Dream Machines\".\n\nThe term has also been used less accurately (since there's no \"tele-\" element) to refer to robotic sex, i.e. computer-controlled sex toys that aim to substitute for or improve upon sex with a human partner.\n\nSex toys that can be manipulated remotely by another party may be of the market. These toys sometimes come with movies to which the toys' actions are synchronized by means of a previously-written script. Other products being released fit a new category called bluedildonics, which allow a sex toy to be controlled remotely via a Bluetooth connection. A report in 2008 suggested that teledildonics, along with text and email and webcams, can be used to \"wind each other up to fever pitch during the working day\" as a prelude to sex with a human during the evening hours. New technologies can help people establish \"emotional connections\" via the web. Indeed, teledildonics technology has already been integrated with adult online webcam services and certain sex toys.\n\nA book reviewer of David Levy's \"Love and Sex with Robots\" in \"The Guardian\" in 2008 suggested that teledildonics was \"but one stage in a technological and social revolution\" in which robots will play an increasingly important role, with artificial lifeforms that will \"attend to our needs with magic fingers\"; Levy argued that by 2050 \"sex with robots will be commonplace.\" Some products have been shown at the Museum of Sex in New York City.\n\nPromoters of these devices have claimed since the 1980s they are the \"next big thing\" in cybersex technology. A report in the \"Chicago Tribune\" in 1993 suggested that teledildonics was \"the virtual-reality technology that may one day allow people wearing special bodysuits, headgear and gloves to engage in tactile sexual relations from separate, remote locations via computers connected to phone lines.\"\n\nThe responses to teledildonics has been mixed, however the dominant concern has centred on the separation of personal intimacy and embodied presence. In the words of one early text on the subject:\n\nAt the 2016 South by Southwest Festival virtual reality entrepreneur Ela Darling asserted that patent holders were preventing the production of teledildonic technology.\nMany companies experimenting in the field have been hit with patent lawsuits.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation has named one such patent the \"stupid patent of the month\". That patent expired in August 2018, lowering the barrier of entry to the field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13353156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13353156", "title": "Teuctocaitl", "text": "Teuctocaitl\n\nA teuctocaitl, (Nahuatl for \"lordly name\"; ), was a special title usually ending in the word \"teuctli\" (\"lord\"). It was borne by Nahua tlatoani (rulers) in pre-Columbian central Mexico. \n\nEach position of rulership had its own title associated with it, although a \"teuctocaitl\" could be borne by multiple rulers.\n\nTlatoani is the Nahuatl term for the ruler of an altepetl, a pre-Hispanic state.\n"}
{"id": "49239381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49239381", "title": "Willkommenskultur", "text": "Willkommenskultur\n\nThe German concept of welcoming culture (in German: Willkommenskultur) designates firstly a positive attitude of politicians, businesses, educational institutions, sports clubs, persons and institutions towards foreigners, including and often especially towards migrants. Second, the term expresses the wish that all foreigners and migrant people encountered by these institutions may be accepted and particularly not be exposed to discrimination. Third, the word \"welcoming culture\" means all the measures promoted by a positive attitude towards foreigners and migrants in others.\n\nThe German equivalent \"Willkommenskultur\" was elected in Austria in December 2015 as \"Word of the Year\".\n\nThe English daily \"The Guardian\" distinguishes two meanings of the term welcoming culture:\n\nOriginally it was meant to attract people from abroad to Germany to compensate for a huge shortage of skilled workers, particularly in sparsely populated areas.\nSince the beginning of the European refugee crisis in 2015, the term was being used to promote assistance for millions of refugees coming to Germany, who were received by highly visible posters \"refugees welcome\", and by actual help of any kind, mainly on private initiative of uncountable German citizens.\nThe French daily \"Libération\" adds that the word \"welcome culture\" was originally created decades ago in the tourism industry. According to this view \"welcome culture\" would also be a Germanisation of the technical term \"Hospitality Management\".\n\n\"The New York Times\" suggested that Chancellor Angela Merkel was also laying the foundation for new \"hyphenated German\" groups, namely \"the Syrian-Germans, Iraqi-Germans, Afghan-Germans\", alluding to the phenomenon of hyphenated American identities.\n"}
