{"id": "13819125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13819125", "title": "A Separate Reality", "text": "A Separate Reality\n\nA Separate Reality: Further Conversations With Don Juan is a book written by anthropologist/author Carlos Castaneda, published in 1971, concerning the events that took place during his apprenticeship with a Yaqui Indian Sorcerer, Don Juan Matus, between 1960 and 1965.\n\nIn the book Castaneda continues his description of his apprenticeship under the tutelage of Don Juan. As in his previous book, \"\", Castaneda describes the experiences he has with Don Juan while under the influence of the psychotropic plants that Don Juan offered him, peyote \"(Lophophora williamsii)\" and a smokable mixture of what Castaneda believed to be, among other plants, dried mushroom of the genus \"Psilocybe\". The main focus of the book centered on Don Juan's attempts at getting Carlos to \"See\", a practice best described as, in Castaneda's own words, \"perceiving energy directly as it flows through the universe\".\n\nThe book contains an introduction, an epilogue and two separate parts. Part One, \"The Preliminaries of 'Seeing'\", describes his re-initiation into the apprenticeship from which he withdrew in late 1965, and also describes his introduction to another \"brujo\" (sorcerer) named Don Genaro. Part Two, \"The Task of 'Seeing'\", elaborates on the mental processes involved with \"Seeing\", and begins with Castaneda realizing that the plants are a necessary tool to arrive at \"Seeing\".\n\nA copy is given to Sayid Jarrah by a young Benjamin Linus in the episode \"He's Our You\" (Season 5 Episode 10) of the TV series \"Lost\".\n\nOne of the stacked books in the episode \"Concentrate and Ask Again\" (Season 3 Episode 12) of the TV series \"Fringe\".\n\nThe book inspired the members of metal band Between the Buried and Me offshoot, Trioscapes, to name their debut EP \"Separate Realities\".\n\nIn the film \"The Exorcism of Emily Rose\", an anthropologist played by Shoreh Aghdashloo references Castaneda and the Separate Reality during her court testimony.\n\nIn Season 2 of the HBO series \"True Detective\", Dr. Irving Pitlor is seen reading the book.\n\n"}
{"id": "55871757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55871757", "title": "Adam H. Dickey", "text": "Adam H. Dickey\n\nAdam Herbert Dickey (June 26, 1864 - February 8, 1925), best known as Adam H. Dickey was a Christian Scientist and private secretary to Mary Baker Eddy.\n\nDickey was born in Toronto, Canada. He was a Methodist but converted to Christian Science in the early 1880s.\n\nHe was private secretary to Mary Baker Eddy during the last three years of her life. On August 25, 1908 Eddy asked Dickey \"will you promise me that you will write a history of what has transpired in your experiences with me, and say that I was mentally murdered?\". Dickey kept his promise and authored \"Memoirs of Mary Baker Eddy\", which documents her battle against \"malicious animal magnetism\". He reported that in her last years, Eddy turned her house into a mental fortress. She employed loyal mental watchers to try and counteract her enemies evil thoughts. \n\nEddy made Dickey a director of the Mother Church on November 21, 1910. This was her last official communication to any of her Church officers.\n\nDickey's \"Memoirs\" was published posthumously with the permission of his widow Lillian S. Dickey in 1927. It was suppressed by the Mother Church. According to historian R. Laurence Moore \"Christian Science officials, eager to be rid of their association with demonology after Eddy's death, suppressed Dickey's book, and it is not easy now to find a copy. However, the story that it tells is consistent with everything one knows about Eddy's final years.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87532", "title": "Afrikaner Calvinism", "text": "Afrikaner Calvinism\n\nAfrikaner Calvinism is a theoretical cultural and religious development among Afrikaners that combined elements of seventeenth-century Calvinist doctrine with a \"chosen people\" ideology similar to that espoused by proponents of the Jewish nation movement. A number of modern studies have argued that this gave rise to the Great Trek while serving to legimitise the subordination of other South African ethnic groups, thus laying the foundation for modern Afrikaner nationalism and \"apartheid\". Dissenting scholars have asserted that Calvinism did not in fact play a significant role in Afrikaner society until the trauma of the Second Boer War, citing the fact that early settlers dwelt in isolated frontier conditions and lived much closer to pseudo-Christian animist beliefs than organised religion.\n\nWhite settlement in South Africa may be traced to the 1652 arrival of the Dutch East India Company at the Cape of Good Hope, seeking to establish a refreshment station. The Company had its headquarters in Amsterdam and it was there that it recruited and equipped voyages for the Orient. Most of its Dutch employees were Protestant Calvinists; they were supplemented by Lutheran Germans and Scandinavians, as well as a large exodus of French Huguenot refugees fleeing persecution at home. Among their Afrikaner descendants, individual religious communities such as the \"Dopper\"s became known for establishing their own doctrine in rifts with the Nederduitse Gereformeerde Kerk (Dutch Reformed Church), leading to the formation of the separatist Gereformeerde Kerk in the late nineteenth century.\n\nThe Dutch settlement of the Cape of Good Hope was the first colonial success in South Africa. The key to this success was the establishment of strict rules of trade between the settlement and the native population. No trade or Christian missionary ventures among the Africans were permitted without the permission of the company administrator. Stealing or shooting cattle was especially forbidden as a cause of inevitable conflict with the natives. The early Europeans were appalled by the appearance and the customs of the Africans, and false rumours that the natives were cannibals reinforced their motive to avoid unnecessary contact. The Cape was a walled garden, with Africa on the outside and Europe within. This strict order minimised conflicts with the Africans during the early settlement period.\n\nYet, many of the settlers had arrived with a missionary motive. The synthesis of these attitudes of strict avoidance and a missionary conscience resulted in the widespread practice of indenturing the native Khoisan population, and within that master/servant relationship, to teach the Bible to them in hope that the message would filter back through the servant's family (along with reports of the superiority of European life) and thus bring about conversion.\n\nThe farmers who lived outside of the physical walls of the towns had a different arrangement than the townspeople. To them, occupation meant ownership, and ownership implied the right to protect their property. As they settled into the seemingly unoccupied territories surrounding the Cape, they enforced these assumptions of ownership and its rights when the wandering hunters or herding tribes would cross the Fish River into farm territories in search of grazing land or game. Thus, the farms represented an extension beyond the towns of the wall of separation between the white and the black occupants of the land. As in the towns, plantation slavery was sometimes seen as a means of evangelism.\n\nSeparation and rules of exchange were opposed very early in the Afrikaner mind to invasion and conquest. And, this anti-imperialism extended also to the theory of missionary obligation that developed within the Dutch Reformed Church: the kingdom of God will grow within the sphere of influence assigned to the church by divine providence, as children are taught the Gospel by their parents and family. If God deems it fitting for the Gospel to be received by the natives, and taught to their children, then this is his glory. Toward that end, Christians have a defining role given them from God, a calling, or covenantal responsibility as God's people, to keep themselves pure in the faith and just in their dealings with the heathen, and to be absolutely unyielding in their protection of what has been legitimately claimed in the name of the Triune God.\n\nThis history is essential to understanding the distinctive concept of \"calling\" that developed among the Afrikaners. These attitudes, very early adopted, went with them through later conflicts, formed in a way that seemed to them obviously crafted by the hand of God Himself. They believed themselves preserved by God's own wisdom and Providence. The things they suffered, and the strong bonds between them that were formed through it all, seemed to confirm this idea at every turn. Their history as a people has a central place in forming the Boer religion. In this way, a distinctive folk character became attached to their Calvinistic beliefs.\nThis folk religion was not articulated in a formal way. It was the experience of the Afrikaners, which they interpreted through their assurance that their absolutely sovereign Creator and Lord had shown special grace to them as a particular people.\n\nHowever, the French Revolution brought these habits of thought more self-consciously to the surface. France invaded the Republic of the United Provinces in January 1794, the Stadtholder fled to England and asked the British Government to send the Navy to take care of the possessions of the United East Indies Company that was in dire financial straits and in which he had a huge stake. The British took care of the Cape of Good Hope in 1795 and handed it back to the Batavian Republic after the Peace of Amiens. For about a year and a half, Enlightenment ideas were promoted by Janssens and De Mist, including changes in church government. In 1806, the British Navy invaded the Cape of Good Hope on its own, and appointed British land administrators there, who were zealous propagators of the Enlightenment. They loosened the trade and labour regulations, speaking of the blacks as 'noble savages' whose untainted natural souls they professed to admire. The British Government outlawed slavery in the British Empire in 1835. They called the blacks equals, and gave them access to the courts in suit against white landowners. And, they professed to believe in their own autonomous Reason above all else.\n\nA more antithetical message could hardly be imagined, as the English Enlightenment found itself with the Afrikaners for the first time. From the Boer point of view, the Enlightenment invaded their shores, seized their properties, annexed their farms, imposed alien laws, liberated their slaves without compensation, justified these actions by appeal to Reason alone, and claimed in all of this to be more virtuous than their God. They were exposed to the Enlightenment, and it appeared to them to be a revolution against their God and way of life.\n\nDuring the Great Trek, many people, mostly from the eastern part of the Cape Colony, went north, to areas not under control of the government of the British Crown Colony. Because the Cape Dutch Reformed Church was seen by the trekkers as being an agent of the Cape government, they also did not trust its ministers and emissaries, seeing them as attempts by the Cape government to regain political control. There were also religious divisions among the trekkers themselves. A minister from the Netherlands, Dirk Van der Hoff went to the Transvaal in 1853, and became a minister in the Nederduitsch Hervormde Kerk, which was constituted in 1856, and in 1860 recognised as the State Church of the South African Republic, separate from the Cape Church.\n\nMeanwhile, back in the Netherlands, the Dutch State church had also been transformed by the Enlightenment, a change represented in the minds of those opposed it, by the loss of any meaningful profession of faith as requisite for adult church members, and the singing of hymns (in addition to psalms) and other innovations in worship and doctrine. In the Netherlands a movement grew in reaction to this perceived dismantlement of Biblical faith. It was called the Afscheiding, in which the Rev. Hendrik de Cock separated himself from the State Church in 1834 in Ulrum, Groningen. There was also a movement called the Reveil (\"Awakening\"), supported by those who did not separate from the State Church, like Guillaume Groen van Prinsterer, whose writings became known in South Africa. And much later the leader of another schism called the Doleantie, Abraham Kuyper, began to become known to the Afrikaners. Highly critical of the Enlightenment, the \"revolution\" as they called it, the Doleantie in the church had counterparts in education and in politics. The timing of this influence was significant, coming on the crest of a wave of evangelical revival, the Reveil in the Dutch Reformed Church which had been led in South Africa by the Scottish preacher, Andrew Murray. The slogan of the Doleantie, which eventually rang with unintended nationalist nuance for the Afrikaners was, \"Separation is Strength\".\n\nIn the South African Dutch Reformed Church in Transvaal, the more conservative party (known as Doppers) were opposed to singing some hymns in church. They asked the Afgescheiden Gereformeerde Kerk in the Netherland to provide them with a minister. The Rev. Dirk Postma came from Zwolle to the South African Republic in 1858, and was accepted as a minister of the Hervormde Kerk, but on learning that he and his congregation could be required to sing hymns (rather than the Psalms only), he and the Doppers, numbering about 300 adults, among whom was the South African Republic's President Paul Kruger, broke away from the state church to form the Gereformeerde Kerk in Rustenburg in February 1859. There were thus now three Dutch Reformed Churches in South Africa – the Afrikaner Nederduits Gereformeerde Kerk (the Cape Synod), the Boer Nederduitsch Hervormde Kerk, which was the State Church of the South African Republic, and the Boer Gereformeerde Kerk, the smallest of the three, led by Rev. Postma.\n\nThe originally contemptuous name, \"Dopper\", may come from the Dutch \"domp\" (\"wick-snuffers\") for their opposition to candles and other innovations in worship, perhaps representing their contempt for the Enlightenment; or, \"Dopper\" may originate from Dutch \"dop\" (and thus \"drinkers\"), perhaps on account of their strong opposition to small, individual communion cups.\n\nThe separatism of the Doppers, expressed in the severity of their doctrine, the austere puritanism of their worship, and even in their distinctive dress and speech, set them in stark contrast to European influence. Nevertheless, the Doppers were symbolic of resistance to all things English in South Africa, and despite their small size and distinctiveness they were culturally sophisticated and disproportionately influential during and after the Great Trek. It was the Dopper church that established Potchefstroom University.\n\nBoer Republics which arose after the Great Trek needed a comprehensive philosophy upon which to organise a puritanical Boer society. Paul Kruger, first president of the South African Republic upon its reacquired independence after the brief British annexation, adopted the Calvinstic principles in its political form, and formulated a \"cultural mandate\" based on the Voortrekkers' conviction that they had a special calling from God, not unlike the people of Israel in the Bible. The Doppers waged an intellectual war against the perceived influx of uitlander culture which was flooding into the Transvaal through the mass settlements of foreign immigrants lured by gold and diamonds.\n\nThe Boer Wars had left many of the Afrikaners utterly destitute. The ruined farmers were seen in the hundreds, following the war, lining the highways selling produce by the basket. After the four South African colonies united politically into the Union of South Africa and relinquished control to democratic elections, a small, anonymous group of young intellectuals called the Afrikaner Broederbond, formed in the years following the Second Anglo-Boer War to discuss strategies for addressing the overwhelming social problem of \"poor whites\" and other Afrikaner interests. By the account of Irving Hexham, according to Klaus Venter and Hendrick Stoker who were themselves disgruntled members of the secret organisation, in 1927 the Broederbond moved to Potchefstroom University, asking that the school would take over leadership of the then-struggling group. That year, the Broederbond formally adopted the Calvinist philosophy based on the work of Abraham Kuyper. The Broederbond believed, with deep-rooted conviction, that what their past had provided them through the interpretation of faith was a model of anti-imperialism, self-discipline and responsibility, which in the end would preserve justice for all – blacks, coloured, and whites – against Communist deceit. These strategies that arose from the Broederbond were directly responsible for the establishment of apartheid, in 1948.\n\nAfter the Sharpeville massacre in 1960, under enormous international pressure, the Broederbond began a slow and quiet re-examination of their policy proposals. And yet no significant changes took place to reform the apartheid system until the Soweto riots in 1976. Some time after this, the Broederbond declared apartheid an irreformable failure and began work to dismantle it. The conviction had finally become established, although not universally that, if the Afrikaner people, language and religion were to survive, they must take the initiative to emerge from the laager, and invite South Africa in. The Broederbond (dropping the policy of secrecy and with the new name \"Afrikanerbond\") began proposing initiatives for land reform and the reversal of apartheid.\n\nThe reversal of apartheid has cast the Nederduits Gereformeerde Kerk (NGK) into a period of change. While remaining confessionally Calvinist, the religious character of the church is now less cohesive and more difficult to assess. Having been thoroughly conflated with apartheid, historic Calvinism appears to have fallen out of favour. Liberation theology, which embraces the Enlightenment idea of Revolution, has gained a foothold in some quarters, and appears to have advocates both the left and right ends of the political spectrum. American-style evangelicalism and Arminianism also appear to have made inroads, which with its more individualistic emphasis has less potential for a full-scale civil religion. Certainly the old synthesis of revealed and natural theology is largely repudiated; officially at least. But, the folk religion of the Afrikaners is not dead. Some scholars and revisionist historians are attempting to draw lines of distinction between Calvinism \"per se\", the history of the Afrikaners, and the civil religion of the apartheid regime in particular.\n\nIn 1985, 92% of Afrikaners were members of Reformed Churches. By late 2013, this figure had dropped to 40%, while actual weekly church attendance of Reformed Churches is estimated to be around 25%.\n\nToday, many Afrikaners have found their spiritual homes in charismatic and Pentecostal churches.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1082399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082399", "title": "Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh", "text": "Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh\n\nThe Archbishop of St Andrews and Edinburgh is the ordinary of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of St Andrews and Edinburgh. The archdiocese covers an area of 5,504 km². The Metropolitan see is in the City of Edinburgh where the archbishop's seat (\"cathedra\") is located at the Cathedral Church of Saint Mary. The 8th and current archbishop is Leo Cushley.\n\nAfter the Scottish Reformation, the Roman Catholic Church abandoned the hierarchy and for nearly a century Roman Catholics in Scotland were under the jurisdiction of the English prefects and vicars apostolic. In 1653, the Prefecture Apostolic of Scotland was established, which was elevated to the Vicariate Apostolic in 1694. On 23 July 1727, Scotland was divided into the Vicariates Apostolic of the Lowland District and the Highland District, each headed by a vicar apostolic. On 13 February 1827, Scotland was divided again into three vicariates apostolic; the Eastern District (formerly the Lowland District), the Northern District (formerly the Highland District), and the Western District (created from parts of the other two districts). On the restoration of the Scottish hierarchy by Pope Leo XIII on 15 March 1878, part of the Eastern District was elevated to the status of a metropolitan archdiocese with the title St Andrews and Edinburgh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46577480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46577480", "title": "Are katika", "text": "Are katika\n\n<br>\nAre-Katika, Katika or Are-Suryavamshi is a sect hailing from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu states in India. In Northern part of the country they are known as khatiks. The traditional trade of this community is goat and sheep butchery. They follow Hinduism and do not slaughter animals, which is done by Muslim Qureshis. After the animal is slaughtered, they separate the skin and other parts from carcass for selling the meat and its bye-products. The women folk sell the bye-products of goat and sheep in toddy shops. Chakna is a traditional delicacy prepared by the women with goat tripe and other animal digestive parts like intestines. Chaknawadi is a place named after this dish in Begum Bazaar of Hyderabad, India, where maximum families of this community hail from. Most of them work as daily wage earners in Mandis (slaughter houses) for their livelihood. \n\nThough more than sixty percent of the Khatiks in Telangana still follow the traditional unclean profession of meat selling, they do not come under Scheduled Caste (SC) status by the Government of Andhra Pradesh and are categorized in Other Backward Class (OBC) depriving them of benefits on par with other 12 states in the country where they come under Schedule Caste (SC) community.\n"}
{"id": "11207600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11207600", "title": "Arnold Short Bull", "text": "Arnold Short Bull\n\nArnold Short Bull (Lakota: Tȟatȟáŋka Ptéčela) (c. 1845-1923), a member of the Sičháŋǧu (Brulé) Lakota tribe of Native Americans, instrumental in bringing the Ghost Dance movement to the reservations.\n\nArnold Short Bull was born around 1845. \n\nHe was active in the Ghost Dance religious movement of 1890, and had traveled with fellow Lakota Kicking Bear to Nevada to visit the movement's leader, Wovoka. The two were instrumental in bringing the movement to the Lakota living on reservations in South Dakota. Following the fatal shooting of Sitting Bull, Short Bull was imprisoned at Fort Sheridan, Illinois.\n\nOn his release in 1891, Short Bull joined Buffalo Bill Cody's Wild West Show, and made several trips to Europe with the show. Short Bull died on July 6, 1923 on the Rosebud Reservation in South Dakota.\n\n"}
{"id": "932207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932207", "title": "Babai the Great", "text": "Babai the Great\n\nBabai the Great (ܒܐܒܐܝ ܡܚܡܘܕܐ ca. 551 – 628) was an early church father of the Church of the East. He set several of the foundational pillars of the Church, revived the monastic movement, and formulated its Christology in a systematic way. He served as a monastic visitor and coadjutor with Mar Aba as unofficial heads of the Nestorian Church after Catholicos Gregory until to 628 AD, leaving a legacy of strong discipline and deep religious Orthodoxy. He is revered in the modern Assyrian Church of the East.\n\nBabai the Great (not to be confused with Mar Babai I, the first autonomous leader of the Church of the East) was born in Beth Ainata in Beth Zabdai, on the west bank of the Tigris, near Nisibis. He was born to a family of humble means, and studied at the Christian School of Nisibis under the directorship of Abraham of Beth Rabban. Sometime around 571 A.D., when the Origenist Henana of Adiabene became the new headmaster, Babai's teacher, Abraham the Great of Kashkar, founded a new monastery on Mt. Izla above Nisibis. Babai taught for a while at the Xenodocheio of Nisibis. After that he joined the newly founded monastery of Abraham on Mt. Izla. When Abraham died in 588, Babai left and founded a new monastery and school in his home country Beth Zabdai.\nIn 604 Babai became the third abbot of Abraham's monastery on Mt. Izla.\n\nAbraham the Great had started a monastic reform movement which Babai and other disciples carried through. Since Bar Sauma and the Synod of Beth Lapat, monks and nuns had been encouraged to marry. When Babai returned to Mt. Izla in 604, he expelled monks that lived with women on the fringes of the monastery, and enforced strict discipline, emphasizing a deep life of prayer and solitude. The result was a mass exodus, not only of the married monks.\n\nBut the Church of the East was with Babai. In 604, the Catholicos Mar Sabrisho I died and a new Catholicos had to be elected. The choice fell between two men named Gregory: Bishop Gregory of Nisibis and Professor Gregory of Seleucia. King Khosrau II, the Sassanid emperor, stated only that his preferred candidate was Gregory, possibly meaning the bishop. The king's influential wife Shirin, however, disliked Gregory of Nisibis and preferred Gregory of Seleucia, who had once been her steward. The Synod (council) rejected the king's initial candidate, taking advantage of the ambiguity of name, and chose Gregory of Seleucia, who became Mar Gregorius I. The king was accordingly displeased, and reluctantly supported the elected candidate (after applying a hefty fine to him), and said, Patriarch he is and patriarch he shall be – but never again do I allow another election.\n\nWhen the Catholicos Gregorius died a few years later in 608, the bishops made the usual request to the king to allow them to elect a new Catholicos, but Khosrau had not forgotten the events of the previous election and refused them leave to do so. The royal physician Gabriel of Shiggar, a staunch Miaphysite, suggested to make Henana of Adiabene or one of his students Catholicos, and also used his influence with the king to prevent an election.\n\nFrom 610 to 628 the last and most devastating wars between Byzantium and Persia took place. First Persia conquered parts of Byzantium, which were populated mostly by Monophysite and Chalcedonian Christians. To be popular in the newly gained provinces, King Khosrau II did not want to favor the Nestorians any more. During the successful Byzantine counterattack 622—628, Chalcedonians and especially Monophysites were on the advance in Persia and several sees and villages were lost by the Church of the East. The king successfully blocked an election in the church, preventing the church from having any figure who could allow new bishops and metropolitans to be consecrated.\n\nDuring the decades of this vacancy, the Nestorian church required a sort of authority. Because the king remained staunch in his policy, the church chose to separate itself from the king's royal proscription. Two \"vekils\" (regents) were selected as a stop-gap measure: Archdeacon Mar Aba, who handled matters in the South. In the North, Babai the Great was chosen to lead, who at the time was abbot of a monastery on Mt. Izla. He was nominated inspector-general or visitor of the monasteries of the three northern provinces by the Metropolitans of Nisibis, B. Garmai, and Adiabene. Therefore, Babai, even though not yet a bishop, acted as patriarch in all ecclesiastical matters, though he could not ordain or consecrate. He was appointed 'visitor of the monasteries' of the North, and administered the church in collaboration with Archdeacon Mar Aba. In particular, this new position allowed Babai to investigate the orthodoxy of the monasteries and monks of northern Mesopotamia, and to enforce discipline throughout the monasteries of northern Mesopotamia, even against occasional resistance.\n\nBabai the Great and Mar Aba administered the Nestorian Church for 17 years. Attempts were made during that time to ask the king to change his mind and allow an election, but influences in the court, such as Gabriel of Shiggar, and the king's wife Shirin (who was under Gabriel's influence) blocked the requests. Gabriel was seeking to maneuver things such that the decision of Catholicos would have been in his own (monophysite) hands, an option completely unacceptable to the bishops.\n\nThe king defended this policy until his death in 628. The situation, and vacancy, endured until Khosrau II was murdered in 628. After this, Babai was promptly, and unanimously, elected Catholicos, but he declined. Soon afterward, he died in the cell of his monastery on Mt. Izla, being 75 or 77 years old.\n\nBesides bringing discipline to the monasteries and administering the church, Babai is mainly known for his orthodox teaching.\n\nTo defend and clarify the Nestorian tradition against Henana's Origenism and the advancing Monophysites, Babai the Great produced some 83 or 84 volumes of writing. He developed a systematic Christology, the only one in Nestorian Mesopotamia. Of his extensive exegetical works on all of Scripture nothing survived. What remains are two hagiographies, his principal work on the foundations of ascetic life 'On the Life of Excellency', and commentaries on mystical themes.\n\nFrom what has been preserved it appears that his main authority was Theodore of Mopsuestia, though in general he used few citations from the Fathers. There is no evidence that he could read Greek, and Babai must have relied on translations.\n\nHe mainly fought against the ideas of the Monophysites and of the Origenist Henana. They were the inner enemies. He also wrote against Mani, Marcion, Bar Daisan, the Messalians and the general loss of discipline since Beth Lapat.\n\nThe \"Book of Union\" is Babai's most systematic surviving christological treatise, divided into seven memre that cover more than 200 folios. The 'Tractatus Vaticanus' is another manuscript that deals with the \"impossibility of the hypostatic union and natural union, the possibility of the parsopic union, and the significance of the expression \"hypostatic union\" among the fathers of the antiquity\".\n\nAn important source on the position of Babai the Great against Origen and his follower Henana of Adiabene is his commentary on Evagrius Ponticus. It also shows his opposition to Messalianism. An 8th-century manuscript has been preserved that contains Evagrius' text together with Babai's commentary on it. This commentary is an abridged version of a larger one which Babai had written earlier and which is lost.\n\nThe writings of Evagrius were important to the current mystical revival among Greek and Syrian monks. For the monks of Mt. Izla, Evagrius was the pillar of mystical theology. The Greek text was condemned already in 553 for its Origenist heresies.\n\nBut unlike the Greek, the 'Common Syriac Version', a translation of the Gnostic chapters of Evagrius by the Monophysite Philoxenus, was void of the specific Origenist-Evagrian Christology. For example, it omits the 'nous-Christos' Christology where the God-logos and the flesh are united in the nous, Jesus Christ, the subject of incarnation. Babai tried to eliminate the Origenist ideas even further and presented Evagrius as opposed to Origen and his follower Henana by pointing out apparent contradictions between them.\n\n\"The Devil is telling the people that some of Evagrius' statements are similar\nto heresies. Some even tried to translate directly from the Greek to show the\nheresy of Evagrius. They translated according to their foolishness, but can\nbe refuted by other writings of Evagrius. The cursed Origen and his disciple,\nthe fool Apollinaris, they teach completely different from Evagrius on the\nrenewal of the soul after death\".\n\nTo show this further, Babai tells the vita of Evagrius and enumerates his sources: Basilius, Gregorius, and Nectarius. No mention of Origen.\n\nThe main theological authorities of Babai were Theodore of Mopsuestia and Diodorus of Tarsus. He also relied on John Chrysostomos, the Cappadocian fathers and on Ephrem the Syrian, which were also accepted in the West. In his exegetical methods he synthesized between the rational Theodore and mystical writers like Evagrius.\n\nAnd most important, instead of breaking with Theodore because of some extreme interpretations of his teachings, like others did, Babai clarified his position to the point that differences with western Christology became superficial and mostly an issue of terminology. His Christology is far less dualistic than the one Nestorius seems to have presented.\n\nBabai in the 'Book of Union' teaches two \"qnome\" (hypostasis—not the Chalcedonian use of this term, essence), which are unmingled but everlastingly united in one \"parsopa\" (person, character, identity, also \"hypostasis\" in Chalcedonian usage.) It is essential to use the Syrian terms here and not any translations, because the same words mean different things to different people, and the words must be accepted in the particular sense of each. In Greek Christology, \"hypostasis\" is used specifically to refer to what would correspond to Babai's \"parsopa\", and \"ousion\" would correspond to \"qnome\". In the period in which Babai and others formulated their respective Christological models, words such as \"hypostasis\" and \"ousion\" had less specifically fixed definitions. Thus, it was possible for two individuals to honestly use a single term to mean two distinctly different things. According to Jaroslav Pelikan, \"Syriac was a richer and more complex language than either Greek or Arabic, and it allowed for more precise distinction\".\n\nTo Babai, Christ is both God and man. But he could not tolerate any form of Theopaschism (the belief that God suffered), be it the divinity itself, the Trinity, or one of the hypostases of the Trinity. According to Babai, Cyril of Alexandria stood at the root of simple Theopaschism as professed by the Monophysites, and the Emperor Justinian I at the root of composite Theopaschism. The Nestorian church could accept expressions like 'Christ died', 'the Son died', but not 'the Word died', even not 'the Word died in the flesh'.\n\nIn the sixth century AD, Mar Babai wrote the Teshbokhta or (Hymn of Praise) explaining the theology of the Church of the East He writes:\n\n"}
{"id": "21040653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21040653", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Sweden", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Sweden\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Sweden began after coverage in the 19th century followed by several Swede-Americans who had met 'Abdu'l-Bahá in the United States around 1912 and pioneered or visited the country starting in 1920. By 1932 translations of Bahá'í literature had been accomplished and around 1947 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly had been elected in Stockholm. In 1962 the first National Spiritual Assembly of Sweden was elected. The Bahá'ís claim about 1,000 members and 25 local assemblies in Sweden.\n\nThe first mentions of the religion happened when the book \"En resa in Persia\", published 1869, which mentions the Báb, who Bahá'ís view as the herald to the founder of the religion. Bahá'u'lláh is first mentioned in a published account of Persian travels in 1869 in the magazine Kringsjå No. 2 from July 31, 1896. The Swedish artist Ivan Aguéli meet `Abdu'l-Bahá in 1902.\n\nRagna Linné was a nineteenth and twentieth century classical soprano born in Oslo during the period of Union between Sweden and Norway and of Swedish/Norwegian roots who encountered the Bahá'í Faith after she moved to Chicago. She traveled back to Norway at least in 1908. She was visible as a Bahá'í circa 1908 in newspapers and to 1916 in the magazine Star of the West by Bahá'ís. She was at the 1912 convention, attended by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, then head of the religion.\n\nIn 1912 Louise M. Erickson attended the dedication of the first Bahá'í House of Worship in the West - in Chicago, United States. The first comprehensive article covering the religion was in the July 2, 1913 issue of Aftonbladet. It covers the history of the period of the Báb, through Bahá'u'lláh imprisonment and banishments, and `Abdu'l-Bahá's freedom and visit to Paris.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book titled Tablets of the Divine Plan. The seventh of the tablets was the first to mention several countries in Europe including beyond where `Abdu'l-Bahá had visited in 1911-12. Written on April 11, 1916, it was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. The seventh tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in Star of the West magazine on December 12, 1919.\n\n\"In brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\"\n\nFollowing the release of these tablets a few Bahá'ís began moving to or at least visiting countries across Europe. August Rudd, born in Värmland on 7 August 1871, became the first Swedish Bahá'í pioneer in July 1920, with permission of `Abdu'l-Baha, on returning from Kenosha and Chicago, United States where he and his brothers had sold their inventions. Rudd settled in Boda and worked in a local school. He was followed a year or two later by Edvard Olsson. In 1923, Louise Eriksson visited August Rudd and teacher Anna Elisabeth Gustavsson, perhaps the first convert in Sweden circa 1920-22, and brought them a copy of \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" by John Esslemont. August and Ann married though August died on February 13, 1926. Nya Wermlands-Tidningen published a letter in the May 2, 1924 issue by Anna Rudd. Helsingborgs Dagblad covered Martha Root's visit to Sweden where she participated in an Esperanto congress in Stockholm. Root made a return trip also covered by Dagblad printed on July 31, 1934. Youness Khan Afrukhtih, formerly one of `Abdu'l-Bahá secretaries, arrived in Oslo in September 1929. He had several interviews, including on the BBC, 2.September 1929 and a Weekly Review, 5. September 1929. In 1929 Anna Rudd left Östervallskog and moved to Malmköping and then to Göteborg, where she married Bahá'í Bernard Arvid Palmgren. In October 1932 they moved to Ramen in Värmland and finished translating and publishing \"Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era\" followed by the Kitáb-i-Íqán in 1936. In 1935 Louise Eriksson, on another visit in Sweden, had the opportunity to meet former Chief Magistrate Carl Lindhagen and on March 19, 1935, she received an audience with then Crown Prince Gustaf-Adolf - reported by the Aftonbladet on March 21, 1935, Anna Rudd Palmgren died 27 August 1943. Following World War II, Shoghi Effendi, then head of the religion, oversaw the creation of the European Teaching committee which supervised pioneers to Europe. From their work, Amelia Bowman arrived in Stockholm in October 1947, and with the assistance of Dorothy Baker was able to bring about the election of the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in Stockholm in 1947-8. Bowman then traveled to Göteborg where she was again able to bring the community together and elect its first assembly in 1948-9 - (it lapsed but was re-elected in 1952.) Bowman then moved to Oslo Norway in 1949 and spent the next 33 years pioneering in various countries of Europe.\n\nThe third inter-continental teachings conference was held in Stockholm 21–26 July 1953 at which a number of talks were given for the general public as well as the Bahá'ís including a long letter from Shoghi Effendi which outlined various goals for the community across Europe. As the religion spread across Scandinavia it reached the point where a regional National Spiritual Assembly for Norway, Finland, Sweden and Denmark was established in 1957. A separate National Spiritual Assembly of Sweden was first elected in 1962. By the end of 1963 there were Local Spiritual Assemblies in Göteborg, Malmö, Stockholm, and Uppsala. Smaller groups of Bahá'ís were in Alafors, Brastad, Sundbyberg - and an additional 16 isolated individuals spread through the country.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. The Swedish community of Bahá'ís have undertaken a number of projects both internally and for the good of others whether collectively or individually. Zaid Lundberg, a student in History of Religions at Lund University wrote a MA thesis, entitled \"Bahá'í Apocalypticism: The Bahá'í Concept of Progressive Revelation\" and went on to write a number of papers and teach. In 2004 the community began to support the Barli Development Institute for Rural Women. The Swedish Bahá'í community hosted the Nordic Baha'i Youth Conference in 2005 and 2009. A number of small projects are being carried on in Stockholm, Göteborg, Sigtuna, and Uppsala.\n\nThe Bahá'ís claim about 1,000 Bahá'ís and 25 local assemblies in Sweden from Umeå in the north to Malmö in the south. In November 2009 the Swedish paper Västerbottens-Kuriren reported that 25 local non-profit Bahá'í organization had changed their organizational form to religious communions. The central Bahá'í secretariat in Stockholm stated at the time that the Baha'i Faith in Sweden had 1003 members. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 6,200 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3181220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3181220", "title": "Bahá'ís Under the Provisions of the Covenant", "text": "Bahá'ís Under the Provisions of the Covenant\n\nThe Bahá'ís Under the Provisions of the Covenant (BUPC) is a small Bahá'í sect founded by Leland Jensen in the early 1970s. The claims of the BUPC focus on a dispute in leadership following the death of Shoghi Effendi in 1957, and a subsequent dispute among the followers of Mason Remey. As a follower of Remey, Jensen believed that the majority of Bahá'ís were deceived, and he attempted a new administration that was shunned by the majority of Bahá'ís. Jensen also made specific predictions for worldwide catastrophes, including a specific date in 1980 for the apocalypse, where followers were observed by researchers as a study in cognitive dissonance.\n\nResearchers from the University of Montana who observed the group in various studies over the course of 16 years noted that from 1980 to 1996 membership fluctuated, but probably never exceeded 200 nationwide. Adherents were mostly concentrated in Missoula, Montana, with groups at times in Wyoming, Arkansas, Minnesota, Colorado, and Wisconsin. The group consisted of roughly 150 people leading up to 1980, but declined in size significantly following the disconfirmed prophecy, with almost all of the believers outside of Montana eventually rejecting Jensen's teachings. By 1990 the researchers claimed the BUPC probably had fewer than 100 members. With defection accelerating in the 1990s, they noted that in 1994 a membership phone list showed 66 members in Missoula, Montana, and less than 20 in other states. A schism over leadership of the group in 2001 resulted in other defections and an unresolved court battle for control of funds. Researchers documenting religious groups in Montana in 2003 noted a community of 30 members in the headquarters of Missoula, Montana.\n\nThe BUPC profess adherence to all the writings of the Bahá'í Faith's central figures: the Báb, Bahá'u'lláh, and `Abdu'l-Bahá, as well as Shoghi Effendi. The religious differences between the BUPC and the Bahá'í Faith are essentially over leadership, although certain teachings introduced by Jensen do differ greatly, which are not accepted by the wider Baha'i community.\n\nUnique to the BUPC, Jensen taught that the institution of the guardianship is the continuation of the Davidic line, which he claimed Bahá'u'lláh passed onto his son, who in turn passed the lineage on to the institution of the guardianship.\n\nCharles Mason Remey, one of Shoghi Effendi's Hands of the Cause, declared himself the successor to Shoghi Effendi in 1960. His claim was rejected by his fellow Hands, with the reasoning that he was not a descendant of Bahá'u'lláh, or Aghsan, nor did he have a clear appointment to the position by Shoghi Effendi. Remey based his claim on his being the president of the International Bahá'í Council appointed by Shoghi Effendi in 1951. The result was that Remey and any followers were unanimously expelled from the Bahá'í community by the Hands of the Cause. The Universal House of Justice later announced that it could not appoint or legislate to make possible the appointment of a second Guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi. Jensen was among the Bahá'ís who accepted Remey to be the 2nd Guardian, and to reconcile the requirement that Guardians be Aghsan he believed Remey had been adopted by `Abdu'l-Bahá, and further that Remey's adopted son Pepe was the third Guardian, a point denied by Pepe.\n\nIn 1963 Mason Remey set up a National Assembly in the United States, which was dissolved in 1966. Leland Jensen was among the members elected in 1963, and in 1964 he left the group during a time of disputes among the members and moved to Missoula, Montana. In 1969 he was convicted of performing \"a lewd and lascivious act\" for sexually molesting a 15-year-old female patient, and served four years of a twenty-year sentence in the Montana State Prison.\n\nIt was in prison that Jensen claimed to have a revelation, and converted several dozen inmates to his idea of being the \"Establisher\" of the Bahá'í Faith, stemming from his belief that the administration of the religion had been corrupted, and that he was chosen by God to re-establish the administration.\n\nJensen began teaching as early as 1971 that in 1980 the world would be cleansed of evil by a nuclear holocaust. Jensen gained national attention when on April 26, 1980 he led a group of followers into fallout shelters, expecting an apocalyptic nuclear holocaust. He went on to predict that Halley's Comet would enter earth's orbit on April 29, 1986, and collide with the earth exactly one year later. \n\nWith Jensen's approval, in the early 1990s his companion Neal Chase made a total of 18 predictions which pertained to small-scale disasters that he claimed would lead step-by-step towards the Apocalypse, as well as dates for a nuclear attack on New York City by middle Eastern terrorists. Balch noted that Chase responded to the 18 disconfirmed prophecies with a number of \"face-saving strategies\", including drawing a distinction between prediction and prophecy, claiming miscalculation, reprieve, and tests of faith. Chase later proclaimed \"We didn't make a mistake,\" and that they have \"a 100 percent track record!\"\n\nIn 1991 Jensen appointed 12 members to a second International Bahá'í Council (sIBC) modeled on the International Bahá'í Council set up by Shoghi Effendi, and Jensen registered it in 1993 as a non-profit corporation in Montana. He intended for it to evolve into the elected Universal House of Justice with the Guardian as its president. Believing Joseph Pepe was the Guardian, Jensen invited him to be the president of the council, but Pepe steadfastly denied being the Guardian and had no involvement with the group. \n\nJoseph Pepe died in 1994, leaving no clear candidate for leadership after Jensen's own death in 1996, and no way to appoint new members to the board. Jensen's schism from the mainstream Bahá'í Faith was based on the belief that the religion required a line of appointed hereditary Guardians, and Jensen's chosen candidate for the role was Pepe, who refused to be involved with Jensen's sect. \n\nAfter Pepe died in 1994 Jensen began hinting that Neal Chase might be the next Guardian. Years later, justifying his claim to leadership, Neal Chase claimed to have been secretly adopted by Pepe. \n\nIn 2001, the long-running dispute about the identity of the Guardian broke the group into schism when Chase claimed the role in 2001. The treasurer of the council responded by declaring Neal Chase a Covenant-breaker, and Chase subsequently claimed that failing to recognize him as the Guardian amounted to Covenant-breaking.\n\nThe majority members of the sIBC filed a complaint on April 26, 2002, seeking an order granting damages against Chase, including interest and attorney's fees; and an injunction forbidding Chase to represent the council. Chase filed a motion to dismiss on July 15, 2003, arguing that a judicial resolution would require a court to interpret religious doctrine. The motion was granted September 29, 2003. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court of Montana in 2004, and a decision came February 15, 2005,\n\"Chase argues that the Guardianship, a religious office, vests him with the presidency of the corporation, a secular one, and that it is through holding the latter that he rightfully controls the corporate property. The presidency thus serves in this instance as the temporal nexus between the world of faith, represented by the Guardianship, and the secular world, in which laws define the relationships between persons, corporate or otherwise, and property.\"\n\"This dispute revolves around two basic issues: the composition of the Board, and the powers of the presidency in relation to the church property... The District Court has no power either to anoint a successor to any religious office, or to invalidate any claim thereto. If these two issues can be resolved on purely secular grounds, then the District Court can apply corporate, property, and tort law in deciding the merits of the Board’s conversion and other claims against Chase.\"\n\nThe case was remanded to the lower court for further proceedings.\n\nOn February 24, 2005 the National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of the Bahá'ís of the United States filed a complaint with the World Intellectual Property Organization Arbitration and Mediation Center against Neal Chase for his use of the domain name UHJ.net, which claims to be \"The Official website of the Universal House of Justice\" - a name for which the NSA has a United States federal trademark registration, issued in 1965.\n\nThe case resulted in Chase keeping the domain name on the basis that \"uhj\" as an acronym is not commonly used in the Bahá'í Faith to refer to the Universal House of Justice. The panel also concluded that the NSA was not attempting a reverse domain name hijacking. All other issues were deemed not necessary to address.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "158934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158934", "title": "Catholic Church sexual abuse cases", "text": "Catholic Church sexual abuse cases\n\nCases of child sexual abuse by Catholic priests, nuns and members of religious orders in the 20th and 21st centuries has been widespread and has led to many allegations, investigations, trials and convictions, as well as revelations about decades of attempts by the Church to cover up reported incidents. The abused include boys and girls, some as young as 3 years old, with the majority between the ages of 11 and 14. The accusations began to receive isolated, sporadic publicity from the late 1980s. Many of these involved cases in which a figure was accused of decades of abuse; such allegations were frequently made by adults or older youths years after the abuse occurred. Cases have also been brought against members of the Catholic hierarchy who covered up sex abuse allegations and moved abusive priests to other parishes, where abuse continued.\n\nBy the 1990s, the cases began to receive significant media and public attention in some countries, especially in Canada, the United States, Australia and, through a series of television documentaries such as \"Suffer The Children\" (UTV, 1994), Ireland. A critical investigation by \"The Boston Globe\" in 2002 led to widespread media coverage of the issue in the United States, later dramatized in Tom McCarthy's film \"Spotlight\". Over the last decade, widespread abuse has been exposed in Europe, Australia, Chile, and the USA.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2010 the Holy See, the central governing body of the Catholic Church, considered sex abuse allegations involving about 3,000 priests dating back fifty years, reflecting worldwide patterns of long-term abuse as well as the Church hierarchy's pattern of regularly covering up reports of abuse. Diocesan officials and academics knowledgeable about the Roman Catholic Church say that sexual abuse by clergy is generally not discussed, and thus is difficult to measure. Members of the Church's hierarchy have argued that media coverage was excessive and disproportionate, and that such abuse also takes place in other religions and institutions, a stance that dismayed critics who saw it as a device to avoid resolving the abuse problem within the Church.\n\nIn a 2001 apology, John Paul II called sexual abuse within the Church \"a profound contradiction of the teaching and witness of Jesus Christ\". Benedict XVI apologised, met with victims, and spoke of his \"shame\" at the evil of abuse, calling for perpetrators to be brought to justice, and denouncing mishandling by church authorities. In 2018, Pope Francis began by accusing victims of fabricating allegations, but by April was apologizing for his \"tragic error\" and by August was expressing \"shame and sorrow\" for the tragic history, without, however, introducing concrete measures either to prosecute abusers or to help victims.\n\nThe sexual abuse of children under the age of consent by priests has received significant media and public attention in the United States, Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom, the Philippines, Belgium, France, Germany and Australia. Cases have also been reported in other nations throughout the world. Many of the cases span several decades and are brought forward years after the abuse occurred.\n\nAlthough nationwide inquiries have been conducted only in the United States and Ireland, as well as an Australian inquiry into institutional responses, cases of clerical sexual abuse of minors have been reported and prosecuted in New Zealand, Canada and other countries. In 1995, Cardinal Hans Hermann Groër resigned from his post as Archbishop of Vienna, Austria over allegations of sexual abuse, although he remained a Cardinal. Since 1995, more than 100 priests from various parts of Australia were convicted of sexual abuse.\n\nIn Ireland, the Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse issued a report that covered six decades (from the 1950s). It noted \"endemic\" sexual abuse in Catholic boys' institutions, saying that church leaders were aware of abuses and that government inspectors failed to \"stop beatings, rapes and humiliation.\" The commission's report on church abuse ran to five volumes. The report noted the \"centrality of poverty and social vulnerability in the lives of the victims of abuse.\"\n\nIn Australia, according to Broken Rites, a support and advocacy group for church-related sex abuse victims, there have been over one hundred cases in which Catholic priests have been charged for child sex offenses. A 2012 police report detailed 40 suicide deaths directly related to abuse by Catholic clergy in the state of Victoria. In January 2013, an Australian Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse was called to investigate institutional sexual abuse of minors related, but not exclusive, to matters concerning clergy of the Catholic Church.\n\nOf the Catholic sexual abuse cases in Latin America, the most widely known is the sexual scandal of Father Marcial Maciel, the leader of the Legion of Christ, a Roman Catholic congregation made up of priests and seminarians studying for the priesthood. The revelations took place after the Legion spent more than a decade denying allegations and criticizing the victims who claimed abuse.\n\nIn Tanzania, Father Kit Cunningham and three other priests were exposed as pedophiles after Cunningham's death. The abuse took place in the 1960s but was only publicly revealed in 2011, largely through a BBC documentary.\n\nChurch officials and academics knowledgeable about the Third World Roman Catholic Church say that sexual abuse by clergy is generally not discussed, and thus is difficult to measure. This may be due in part to the more hierarchical structure of the Church in Third World countries, the \"psychological health\" of clergy in those regions, and because Third World media, legal systems and public culture are not as apt to thoroughly discuss sexual abuse. In the Philippines, where at least 85% of the population is Catholic, the revelations of sexual abuse by priests, including child sexual abuse, followed the United States' widespread reporting in 2002.\n\nAcademic Mathew N. Schmalz notes India as an example: \"you would have gossip and rumors, but it never reaches the level of formal charges or controversies.\" Traditionally, the Roman Catholic Church has held tight control over many aspects of church life around the globe, including \"the words used in prayer\", but it left sex abuse cases to be handled locally. In 2001, the church first required that sex abuse cases be reported to Rome. In July 2010, the Vatican doubled the length of time after the 18th birthday of the victim in which clergymen can be tried in a church court. It also streamlined the processes for removing pedophile priests.\n\nAccording to a 2004 research study by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice for the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, 4,392 Catholic priests and deacons in active ministry between 1950 and 2002 have been plausibly (neither withdrawn nor disproven) accused of under-age sexual abuse by 10,667 individuals. Estimating the number of priests and deacons active in the same period at 110,000, the report concluded that approximately 4% have faced these allegations. The report noted that \"It is impossible to determine from our surveys what percent of all actual cases of abuse that occurred between 1950 and 2002 have been reported to the Church and are therefore in our dataset.\" The Augustin Cardinal Bea, S.J. specializes in abuse counseling and is considered an expert on clerical abuse; he states \"approximately 4% of priests during the past half century (and mostly in the 1960s and 1970s) have had a sexual experience with a minor.\" According to \"Newsweek\" magazine, this figure is similar to the rate of frequency in the rest of the adult population..\n\nAllegations of and convictions for sexual abuse by clergy have occurred in many countries. There are no accurate figures available on the number of sexual abuse cases in different regions. But, in 2002 \"The Boston Globe\" reported, \"clearly the issue has been most prominent in the United States.\" The US is the country with the highest number of reported Catholic sex abuse cases.\n\nAfter the United States, the country with the next highest number of reported cases is Ireland. A significant number of cases have also been reported in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and countries in Europe, Latin America, Africa, and Asia.\n\nIn response to the attention, members of the church hierarchy have argued that media coverage has been unfair, excessive, and disproportionate. According to a Pew Research Center study, in 2002 the media coverage was focused on the US, where a \"Boston Globe\" series initiated widespread coverage in the region. However, by 2010 the focus had shifted to Europe.\n\nIn September 2011, a submission was lodged with the International Criminal Court alleging that the Pope, Cardinal Angelo Sodano (Dean of the College of Cardinals), Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone (Cardinal Secretary of State), and Cardinal William Levada (then-current Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith) had committed a crime against humanity by failing to prevent or punish perpetrators of rape and sexual violence in a \"systematic and widespread\" concealment which included failure to co-operate with relevant law enforcement agencies. In a statement to the Associated Press, the Vatican described this as a \"ludicrous publicity stunt and a misuse of international judicial processes.\" Lawyers and law professors emphasized that the case is likely to fall outside the court's jurisdiction.\n\nOn May 13, 2017, Pope Francis acknowledged that the Vatican had a 2,000 case backlog of sex abuse cases.\n\nIn the late 1940s, American Fr. Gerald Fitzgerald founded the Congregation of the Servants of the Paraclete, a religious order that treats Roman Catholic priests who struggle with personal difficulties such as substance abuse and sexual misconduct. In a series of letters and reports to high-ranking Catholic leaders starting in the 1950s, Fitzgerald warned of substantial problems with pedophile priests. He wrote, for example, \"[sexual abuse] offenders were unlikely to change and should not be returned to ministry.\" He discussed the problem with Pope Paul VI (1963 – 1978) and \"in correspondence with several bishops\".\n\nIn 2001, the Vatican first required that sex abuse cases be reported to the Vatican hierarchy; before that, it left management of the cases to local dioceses. After the 2002 revelation by the \"Boston Globe\" that cases of abuse were widespread in the Church in Massachusetts and elsewhere, \"The Dallas Morning News\" did a year-long investigation. It reported in 2004 that even after these revelations and public outcry, the institutional church had moved allegedly abusive priests out of the countries where they had been accused but assigned them again to \"settings that bring them into contact with children, despite church claims to the contrary\". Among the investigation's findings was that nearly half of 200 cases \"involved clergy who tried to elude law enforcement.\"\n\nThe cases received significant media and public attention in the United States, Ireland (where abuse was reported as widespread), and Canada, and throughout the world. In response to the attention, members of the church hierarchy have argued that media coverage has been excessive and disproportionate. According to a Pew Research Center study, media coverage was generated mostly in the United States, beginning in 2002, with a \"Boston Globe\" series that published hundreds of news reports. By contrast, in 2010 much of the reporting focused on child abuse in Europe.\n\nChurch authorities are often accused of covering up cases of sex abuse. In many cases, as discussed in the sections on different countries, clergy discovered by Church authorities to be criminally offending are not reported to civil authorities such as the police. They are often merely moved from one diocese to another, usually without any warning to the authorities or the congregations at the destination. While offending clergy could be subject to action such as defrocking, this is rare; the intention of the Church until recent times has been to avoid publicity and scandal at all costs.\n\nIn some cases offenders may confess their wrongdoing to a priest under the Sacrament of Penance. Church canon law unconditionally prohibits a priest hearing such a confession from making any disclosure about the existence or content of the confession to anybody, including Church and civil authorities—the \"Seal of the Confessional\". This obligation is taken very seriously throughout the Catholic Church; for example all serving archbishops in Australia told the Australian Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse that they would not report to police a colleague who admitted in the confessional to child rape. This is not always in contradiction with civil law; the law in many, but not all, countries confers confessional privilege, a rule of evidence that forbids judicial inquiry into certain communications between clergy and members of their congregation.\n\nThe Gillard Government instituted the Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse in 2013. The Commission reported that 7% of all Catholic priests in Australia were \"alleged perpetrators of child sex abuse;\" the children's average age at the time of the abuse was 11.5 for boys and 10.5 for girls. Alleged perpetrators were overwhelmingly male (90%) and religious brothers were disproportionally highly responsible (having the most claimants and some 37% of all alleged perpetrators, despite being numerically inferior to priests and religious sisters). Most reported incidents of sex abuse occurred between 1950 and 1989, however it was noted that there was on average a delay of 33 years between when a victim was abused to when it was reported, which skews the statistics towards older incidents of abuse. Some reported incidents occurred as early as the 1920s and the latest after 2010.\n\nOf the 201 Church authorities surveyed, 92 (46%) reported having received at least one claim of child sexual abuse. Overall, some 4,444 claimants alleged incidents of abuse in 4,756 reported claims over the period 1950-2015 (86% of claims related to pre-1990 incidents). The 3,057 claims resulting in a payment for redress amounted to $268 million between 1980 and 2015. Claims had been made against 1,880 alleged perpetrators, with 30% against priests, 32% non-ordained religious brothers, 5% non-ordained religious sisters, 29% lay people and 4% of unknown religious status. By means of a weighted index, the Commission found that at 75 archdioceses/dioceses and religious institutes with priest members examined, some 7 per cent of priests (who worked in Australia between 1950 and 2009) had allegations made against them (this finding did not represent allegations tested in a court of law). Between 1980 and 2015, the Christian Brothers, which operated a number of residential facilities, made the highest number of payments to victims at 763, totaling $48.5m. \n\nAustralia's Catholic leaders had been among the first in the world to publicly address management of child abuse: In 1996, the church issued the \"Towards Healing Protocol\", which it described as seeking to \"establish a compassionate and just system for dealing with complaints of abuse\". Papal apologies for abuse in Australia were made by John Paull II and Benedict XVI.\n\nOn June 29, 2017 the Victorian Police charged Australian Cardinal George Pell with multiple accounts of historical sexual assault. The most serious charges were thrown out for \"fundamental defects in evidence\" and credibility issues over witnesses, but Pell was committed to stand trial on the lesser charges, pleading not guilty. The matter remains sub judice. \nIn May 2018 Philip Wilson, Archbishop of Adelaide, was found guilty of failing to report allegations of child sexual abuse to civil authorities in 1976 when he was an assistant parish priest in East Maitland, New South Wales, and stepped aside from his duties as Archbishop, announcing an intention to appeal the decision of the magistrate.\n\nIn November 2010, an independent group in Austria that operates a hotline to help people exit the Catholic Church released a report documenting physical, sexual, and emotional abuse perpetrated by Austrian priests, nuns, and other religious officials. The report is based on hotline calls from 91 women (28%) and 234 men (72%), who named 422 perpetrators of both sexes, 63% of whom were ordained priests.\n\nIn June 2010, Belgian police raided the Belgian Catholic Church headquarters in Brussels, seizing a computer and records of a Church commission investigating allegations of child abuse. This was part of an investigation into hundreds of claims that had been raised about alleged child sexual abuse committed by Belgian clergy. The claims emerged after Roger Vangheluwe, who had been the Bishop of Bruges, resigned in 2009 after admitting that he was guilty of sexual molestation. The Vatican protested against the raids. In September 2010, an appeals court ruled that the raids were illegal.\n\nIn the late 1980s, allegations were made of physical and sexual abuse committed by members of the Christian Brothers, who operated the Mount Cashel Orphanage in St. John's, Newfoundland. The government, police, and church had colluded in an attempt to cover up the allegations, but in December 1989 they were reported in the \"St. John's Sunday Express\". Eventually more than 300 former pupils came forward with allegations of physical and sexual abuse at the orphanage. The religious order that ran the orphanage filed for bankruptcy in the face of numerous civil lawsuits seeking damages. Since the Mount Cashel scandal, a number of priests across Canada have been accused of sexual abuse.\n\nIn August 2006, Father Charles Henry Sylvestre of Belle River, Ontario pleaded guilty to 47 counts of sexual abuse of females, aged between nine and fourteen years old, between 1952 and 1989. Sylvestre was given a sentence in October 2006 of three years, and died 22 January 2007 after three months in prison.\n\nEarly in 2018, Pope Francis met with Bishop Juan Barros from Chile. Before his visit to Chile to meet with the bishop, there were serious sex abuse charges concerning the priest, Fernando Karadima. Barros was accused of covering up several sex crimes by Karadima. Many laypersons and victims of sexual abuse came forward to condemn Barros for having covered up the sex crimes. When Pope Francis came to visit the bishop, he was asked by local reporters about the sexual abuse scandal surrounding Barros. Pope Francis quickly reprimanded critics, even the victims of Karadima, by calling the scandal a ‘’slander.” In addition, Pope Francis chastised reporters by stating, \"The day they bring me proof against Bishop Barros, I will speak. There is not one piece of evidence against him. It is calumny. Is that clear?\"\nFollowing the pope’s defense of Barros, Boston Cardinal Sean Patrick O’Malley, a key Vatican advisor on clergy abuse, acknowledged that Francis’ comments about Barros were “a source of great pain” for victims. Subsequently, Francis appointed Archbishop Charles Scicluna of Malta to investigate the allegations of abuse in the Chilean church. \nUpon receive Scicluna’s report, Francis wrote on April 12th that he had “made serious mistakes in the assessment and perception of the situation, especially because of a lack of truthful and balanced information.”\nHe also declared that that the Chilean church hierarchy was collectively responsible for “grave defects” in handling sexual abuse cases and the resulting loss of credibility suffered by the church. Following Francis’ remarks, 33 Chilean bishops offered their resignation. \nLater Pope Francis apologized to the victims of the sex abuse scandal. In late April 2018, three victims were invited to the Vatican.\nIn June 2018, Francis accepted the resignations of five bishops (Gonzalo Duarte García de Cortázar, Juan Barros Madrid and Cristián Caro Cordero, Alejandro Goić Karmelić and Horacio del Carmen Valenzuela Abarca) and in September the resignations of Alejandro Goić Karmelić (Diocese of Rancagua) und Horacio del Carmen Valenzuela Abarca (Diocese of Talca).\nKaradima was defrocked on September 28, 2018. \n</br>On 13 October 2018, Pope Francis laicized Ex-archbishop Francisco José Cox Huneeus (* 1933) and Ex-bishop Marco Antonio Órdenes Fernández (* 1964).\n\nJozef Wesolowski, a Polish citizen who had been a nuncio (papal ambassador), was laicized in 2014 because of accusations of sexual abuse of minors during the five years he served as Vatican ambassador in Santo Domingo. The Vatican refused to lift his diplomatic immunity and allow him to be judged in Santo Domingo, but made criminal charges related to his abuse of minors and was going to try him. However, in July 2015 the trial was postponed due to Wesolowski's ill health and he died on August 27, 2015 before a trial could be held.\n\nIn September 2018 a report by the German Catholic Church found that 3,677 children in Germany, mostly 13 or younger, had been sexually abused by Catholic clergy between 1946 and 2014.\n\nRecently in March 2018, Archbishop Anthony Apuron was removed from office by the Vatican. Apuron had been accused of sexually molesting altar boys in the late 1970s. Moreover, in the latest case, priest Louis Brouillard, was charged for having raped altar boys during “sleepovers” as a teenager.  Currently there are fifteen priests, two archbishops, and a bishop who have been recognized in sex abuse cases, from the 1950 up until the 1990s.\n\nIn 2018 Pope Francis accepted the resignation of Bishop Juan Jose Pineda, \nA close aide of Cardinal Maradiaga, following revelations of sexual abuse and financial scandal.\n\nIn 2002, Mathew N. Schmalz noted that Catholic Church sexual abuse cases in India are generally not spoken about openly, stating \"you would have gossip and rumors, but it never reaches the level of formal charges or controversies.\"\n\nIn 2014, Raju Kokkan, the vicar of the Saint Paul's Church in Thaikkattussery, Thrissur, Kerala, was arrested on charges of raping a nine-year-old girl. According to Kerala Police, Kokkan had raped the child on several different occasions, including at least thrice in his office during the month of April. Kokkan promised to gift the child expensive vestments for her Holy Communion ceremony before sexually assaulting her. The abuse was revealed after the victim informed her parents that she had been raped by Kokkan on 25 April 2014. The priest subsequently fled to Nagercoil in the neighbouring state of Tamil Nadu, and was arrested by police on 5 May. Following the arrest, the Thrissur Archdiocese stated that the vicar had been removed from his position within the Church. Between February and April 2014, three other Catholic priests were arrested in the state of Kerala on charges of raping minors.\n\nIn 2016, the Catholic Church reappointed a convicted and jailed priest in the Ootacamund Diocese in Tamil Nadu, with little regard for victims rights and children's safety.\n\nIn 2017, Father Robin or Mathew Vadakkancheril of St Sebastian church in Kannur was arrested in Kochi on the charge of repeatedly raping a 15-year-old girl who later gave birth to a child. The baby is reported to have been taken to an orphanage without the mother's consent. \n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, starting in the 1990s, there were a series of criminal cases and government enquiries related to allegations that priests had abused hundreds of minors over previous decades. State-ordered investigations documented \"tens of thousands of children from the 1940s to the 1990s\" who suffered abuse, including sexual abuse at the hands of priests, nuns, and church staff in three dioceses.\n\nIn many cases senior clergy had moved priests accused of abuse to other parishes. By 2010, a number of in-depth judicial reports had been published, but with relatively few prosecutions. The abuse was occasionally made known to staff at the Department of Education, the police, and other government bodies. They have said that prosecuting clergy was extremely difficult given the \"Catholic ethos\" of the Irish Republic. In addition, in 2004 the Christian Brothers had sued for a civil settlement that barred prosecution of any of its members or the naming of any Christian Brother in the government investigatory report. Christian Brothers had a higher number of allegations made against their order than were made against others. Neither were any victims named in the report.\n\nIn 1994, Micheal Ledwith resigned as President of St Patrick's College, Maynooth when allegations of sexual abuse by him were made public. The June 2005 \"McCullough Report\" found that a number of bishops had rejected concerns about Ledwith's inappropriate behavior towards seminarians \"so completely and so abruptly without any adequate investigation\", although his report conceded that \"to investigate in any very full or substantial manner, a generic complaint regarding a person's apparent propensities would have been difficult\".\n\nFr Brendan Smyth was reported to have sexually abused and indecently assaulted 20 children in parishes in Belfast, Dublin and the United States, during the period between 1945 and 1989. Controversy over the handling of his extradition to Northern Ireland led to the 1994 collapse of the Fianna Fáil/Labour coalition government.\n\nSix reports by the National Board for Safeguarding Children in the Catholic Church have up until 2011 established that six Irish priests were convicted between 1975 and 2011.\nIn Northern Ireland (part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and politically independent of the Republic of Ireland), the Northern Ireland Historical Institutional Abuse Inquiry started in January 2014. It was the largest inquiry in UK legal history into sexual and physical abuse in certain institutions (including non-Catholic ones) that were in charge of children from 1922 to 1995. The De La Salle Brothers and the Sisters of Nazareth admitted early in the inquiry to physical and sexual abuse of children in institutions in Northern Ireland that they controlled, and issued an apology to victims. A 2017 report also stated that the local police, who had also poorly investigated claims of sex abuse at the non-Catholic Kincora Boys' Home, had played a role in assisting the local Catholic officials in covering up reported pedophile activity at four Catholic-run homes for boys in the Belfast area and that these four homes had contained the highest level of reported sex abuse of all the 22 homes which were investigated.\n\nAfter revelations by Norwegian newspaper \"Adresseavisen,\" the Catholic Church in Norway and the Vatican acknowledged in 2010 that Georg Müller had resigned in July 2009 from the position of Bishop of Trondheim which he held from 1997, because of the discovery of his abuse of an altar boy two decades earlier. The Vatican cited Canon (Church) law 401/2 but as is customary gave no details. The Norwegian Catholic Church was made aware of the incident at the time but did not alert the authorities. Norwegian law did not allow a criminal prosecution of Müller so long after the event.\n\nDuring 2013 the public in this deeply Catholic country became concerned about reports of child sex abuse scandals within the church, some of which reached the courts, and the poor response by the church. The church resisted demands to pay compensation to victims.\nIn October 2013 the Catholic Church in Poland explicitly refused to publish data on sexual abuse, but said that, if the data were to be published, the scale would be seen to be very low. Bishop Antoni Dydycz said that priests should not be pressed to report sexual abuse to state authorities, invoking the ecclesiastical \"seal of confession,\" which bans them from revealing what is said in the rite of confession. In November 2013 the Minister of Justice said that there were 1,454 persons in prison for acts of pedophilia, of whom one was a Catholic priest. \n\nOn September 27, 2018, Bishop Romuald Kamiński of the Warsaw-Praga Diocese issued an apology to those who had been sexually abused by priests in his Diocese and that church leaders in Poland had completed work on a document to address the abuse of minors and suggest ways to prevent it. According to Archbishop Wojciech Polak, the head of Poland's Catholic Church, the document will also include data on the scale of priestly sex abuse in Poland. However, it will not be made public until later in the year.\n\nIn the United States, which has been the focus of many of the scandals and subsequent reforms, BishopAccountability.org, an \"online archive established by lay Catholics,\" reports that over 3,000 civil lawsuits have been filed against the church, some of these cases have resulted in multimillion-dollar settlements with many claimants. In 1998 the Roman Catholic Diocese of Dallas paid $30.9 million to twelve victims of one priest ($ in present-day terms). From 2003 to 2009 nine other major settlements, involving over 375 cases with 1551 claimants/victims, resulted in payments of over US$1.1 billion. The Associated Press estimated the settlements of sex abuse cases from 1950 to 2007 totaled more than $2 billion. BishopAccountability puts the figure at more than $3 billion in 2012. Addressing \"a flood of abuse claims\" five dioceses (Tucson, Arizona; Spokane, Washington; Portland, Oregon; Davenport, Iowa, and San Diego) got bankruptcy protection. Eight Catholic dioceses have declared bankruptcy due to sex abuse cases from 2004 to 2011.\n\nAlthough bishops had been sending sexually abusive priests to facilities such as those operated by the Servants of the Paraclete since the 1950s, there was scant public discussion of the problem until the mid-1960s. Even then, most of the discussion was held amongst the Catholic hierarchy with little or no coverage in the media. A public discussion of sexual abuse of minors by priests took place at a meeting sponsored by the National Association for Pastoral Renewal held on the campus of the University of Notre Dame in 1967, to which all U.S. Catholic bishops were invited.\n\nVarious local and regional discussions of the problem were held by Catholic bishops in later years. However, it was not until the 1980s that discussion of sexual abuse by Roman Catholic clerics began to be covered as a phenomenon in the news media of the United States. According to the Catholic News Service, public awareness of the sexual abuse of children in the United States and Canada emerged in the late 1970s and the 1980s as an outgrowth of the growing awareness of physical abuse of children in society.\n\nIn September 1983, the\" National Catholic Reporter \" published an article on the topic. The subject gained wider national notoriety in October 1985 when Louisiana priest Gilbert Gauthe pleaded guilty to 11 counts of molestation of boys. After the coverage of Gauthe's crimes subsided, the issue faded to the fringes of public attention until the mid-1990s, when the issue was again brought to national attention after a number of books on the topic were published.\n\nIn 2002, the \"Boston Globe\"s Pulitzer Prize-winning coverage of sexual abuse cases involving Catholic priests drew the attention, first of the United States and ultimately the world, to the problem. Other victims began to come forward with their own allegations of abuse, resulting in more lawsuits and criminal cases. Since then, the problem of clerical abuse of minors has received significantly more attention from the Church hierarchy, law enforcement agencies, government and the news media. One study shows that the Boston Globe coverage of the cases \"had a negative and long-lasting effect\" on Catholic school enrollment, and explained \"about two-thirds of the decline in Catholic schooling.\"\n\nIn 2003 Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Milwaukee authorized payments of as much as US$20,000 to sexually abusive priests to convince them to leave the priesthood.\n\nAs recently as 2011 Fr Curtis Wehmeyer was allowed to work as a priest in Minnesota despite many people having reported concern about his sexual compulsion and suspicious behavior with boys. Wehmeyer was employed as a priest without proper background checks. Wehmeyer was later convicted of sexually abusing two boys. After Wehmeyer's arrest there were complaints the responsible clergy were more concerned with how to spin the story in a favorable light than in helping victims.\n\nIn July 2018 Cardinal Theodore McCarrick resigned from the College of Cardinals (the first Cardinal to do so since 1927) following allegations of abuse and attempted homosexual rape at a seaside villa. In August, a \"systematic coverup\" of sex abuse by more than 300 priests in Pennsylvania parishes was revealed. Reviewers of the situation indicated that many more victims and perpetrators were likely undiscovered. \nIn the United States the 2004 \"John Jay Report,\" commissioned from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice and funded by the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB), was based on volunteer surveys completed by the Roman Catholic dioceses in the United States. The 2004 \"John Jay Report\" was based on a study of 10,667 allegations against 4,392 priests accused of engaging in sexual abuse of a minor between 1950 and 2002.\n\nThe surveys filtered provided information from diocesan files on each priest accused of sexual abuse and on each of the priest's victims to the research team, in a format which did not disclose the names of the accused priests or the dioceses where they worked. The dioceses were encouraged to issue reports of their own based on the surveys that they had completed.\n\nThe report stated there were approximately 10,667 reported victims (younger than 18 years) of clergy sexual abuse between 1950 and 2002:\n\nThe 4,392 priests who were accused amount to approximately 4% of the 109,694 priests in active ministry during that time. Of these 4,392, approximately:\n\nMany of the reported acts of sexual abuse involved fondling or unspecified abuse. There were allegations of forced acts of oral sex and intercourse. Detailed information on the nature of the abuse was not reported for 26.6% of the reported allegations. 27.3% of the allegations involved the cleric performing oral sex on the victim. 25.1% of the allegations involved penile penetration or attempted penetration.\n\nAlthough there were reported acts of sexual abuse of minors in every year, the incidence of reported abuse increased by several orders of magnitude in the 1960s and 1970s. There was, for example, a more than sixfold increase in the number of reported acts of abuse of males aged 11 to 17 between the 1950s and the 1970s. After peaking in the 1970s, the number of incidents in the report decreased through the 1980s and 1990s even more sharply than the incidence rate had increased in the 1960s and 1970s. Contributing factors to the abuse are considered to be \"poor screening and training of priests.\"\n\nAccording to a \"Newsweek\" article the rate of abuse by Catholic priests is no higher than the rate of abuse by the general male population in the United States.\n\nThe Associated Press estimated the settlements of sex abuse cases from 1950 to 2007 totaled more than $2 billion. BishopAccountability puts the figure at more than $3 billion in 2012.\n\nBishopAccountability.org, an \"online archive established by lay Catholics,\" reports that over 3,000 \"civil lawsuits have been filed against the church\" in the United States, some of these cases have resulted in multimillion-dollar settlements with many claimants.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Dallas paid $30.9 million in 1998 to twelve victims of one priest. In July 2003 the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Louisville paid $25.7 million to \"settle child sexual-abuse allegations made in 240 lawsuits naming 34 priests and other church workers.\"\n\nIn 2003 the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston also settled a large case for $85 million with 552 alleged victims.\n\nIn 2004, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Orange settled nearly 90 cases for $100 million.\n\nIn April 2007 the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Portland in Oregon agreed to a $75 million settlement with 177 claimants and the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Seattle agreed to a $48 million settlement with more than 160 victims.\n\nIn July 2007 the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles reached a $660 million agreement with more than 500 alleged victims, in December 2006, the archdiocese had a settlement of 45 lawsuits for $60 million.\n\nIn September 2007 the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Diego reached a $198.1 million \"agreement with 144 childhood sexual abuse victims.\"\n\nIn July 2008 the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Denver agreed \"to pay $5.5 million to settle 18 claims of childhood sexual abuse.\" The Associated Press estimated that the total from settlements of sex abuse cases from 1950 to 2007 to be more than $2 billion. According to BishopAccountability reports that figure reached more than $3 billion in 2012.\n\nMost sex abuse cases are subject to the laws of each individual state. As of April 2010 many sex abusers associated with the Church in several countries have been tried by secular authorities and some have been convicted and sentenced to imprisonment.\n\nAddressing \"a flood of abuse claims\" five dioceses (Tucson, Arizona; Spokane, Washington; Portland, Oregon.; Davenport, Iowa, and San Diego) got bankruptcy protection. Eight Catholic diocese have declared bankruptcy due to sex abuse cases from 2004 to 2011.\nAccording to Donald Cozzens, \"by the end of the mid 1990s, it was estimated that [...] more than half a billion dollars had been paid in jury awards, settlements and legal fees.\" This figure grew to about one billion dollars by 2002. Roman Catholics spent $615 million on sex abuse cases in 2007.\n\nAs of March 2006, dioceses in which abuse was committed or in which abuse allegations were settled out of court had made financial settlements with the victims totaling over $1.5 billion. The number and size of these settlements made it necessary for the dioceses to reduce their ordinary operating expenses by closing churches and schools in order to raise the funds to make these payments. Several dioceses chose to declare Chapter 11 bankruptcy as a way to litigate settlements while protecting some church assets to ensure it continues to operate.\n\nBy 2009, U.S. dioceses have paid more than US$2.6 billion in abuse-related costs since 1950.\n\nIn many instances, dioceses were forced to declare bankruptcy as a result of the settlements. At least six U.S. dioceses sought bankruptcy protection. In some cases, the dioceses filed bankruptcy just before civil suits against them were about to go to trial. This had the effect of mandating that pending and future lawsuits be settled in bankruptcy court. The sexual abuse scandal costs each of the 195 dioceses \"an average of $300,000 annually.\"\n\nSome of the accused priests were forced to resign. Some priests whose crimes fell within statutes of limitation are in jail. Some have been laicized. Others — because they are elderly, because of the nature of their offenses, or because they have had some success fighting the charges — cannot be laicized under canon law. Some priests live in retreat houses that are carefully monitored and sometimes locked.\n\nBernard Francis Law, Cardinal and Archbishop of Boston, Massachusetts, United States, resigned after Church documents were revealed which suggested he had covered up sexual abuse committed by priests in his archdiocese. On 13 December 2002, Pope John Paul II accepted Law's resignation as Archbishop and reassigned him to an administrative position in the Roman Curia, naming him archpriest of the Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore, and he later presided at one of the Pope's funeral masses. Law's successor in Boston, Archbishop (later Cardinal) Seán P. O'Malley, found it necessary to sell substantial real estate properties and close a number of churches in order to pay the $120 million in claims against the archdiocese.\n\nTwo bishops of Palm Beach, Florida, resigned due to child abuse allegations. Resigned bishop Joseph Keith Symons was replaced by Anthony O'Connell, who later also resigned in 2002.\n\nIn an address before the Irish parliament on 11 May 1999, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern announced a comprehensive program to respond to the scandal of abuse in the nation's Catholic-run childcare institutions. Ahern's speech included the first official apology to those who had been abused physically and sexually while they had been in the care of these institutions. The Taoiseach asked the abuse victims for forgiveness, saying: \"On behalf of the State and of all citizens of the State, the Government wishes to make a sincere and long overdue apology to the victims of childhood abuse for our collective failure to intervene, to detect their pain, to come to their rescue.\"\n\nIn response to the furor aroused by the media reports of abuse in Irish government institutions run by religious orders, the Irish government commissioned a study which took nine years to complete. On 20 May 2009, the commission released its 2600-page report, which drew on testimony from thousands of former residents and officials from more than 250 institutions. The commission found that there were thousands of allegations of physical abuse of children of both sexes over a period of six decades. Over the same period, around 370 former child residents alleged they had suffered various forms of sexual abuse from religious figures and others. The report revealed that government inspectors had failed in their responsibility to detect and stop the abuse. The report characterized sexual molestation as \"endemic\" in some church-run industrial schools and orphanages for boys.\n\nIn the wake of the broadcast of a BBC Television documentary, \"Suing the Pope\", which highlighted the case of Seán Fortune, one of the most notorious clerical sexual offenders, the Irish government initiated an official inquiry into the allegations of clerical sexual abuse in the Irish Roman Catholic Diocese of Ferns. The inquiry resulted in the publication of the Ferns Report in 2005.\n\nIn response to the Ferns Report, Ireland's Prime Minister Brian Cowen stated that he was \"ashamed by the extent, length, and cruelty\" of child abuse, apologized to victims for the government's failure to intervene in endemic sexual abuse and severe beatings in schools for much of the 20th century. Cowen also promised to reform the Ireland's social services for children in line with the recommendations of the Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse report. Irish President Mary McAleese and Cowen made further motions to start criminal investigation against members of Roman Catholic religious orders in Ireland.\n\nIn November 2009, Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse reported its findings in which it concluded that:\n\nIn 2009, The Murphy Report is the result of a three-year public inquiry conducted by the Irish government into the Sexual abuse scandal in Dublin archdiocese, released a few months after the report of the Ryan report. The Murphy report stated that, \"The Commission has no doubt that clerical child sexual abuse was covered up by the Archdiocese of Dublin and other Church authorities\". It found that, \"The structures and rules of the Catholic Church facilitated that cover-up.\" Moreover, the report asserted that, \"State authorities facilitated that cover-up by not fulfilling their responsibilities to ensure that the law was applied equally to all and allowing the Church institutions to be beyond the reach of the normal law enforcement processes.\" The report criticized four archbishops – John Charles McQuaid who died in 1973, Dermot Ryan who died in 1984, Kevin McNamara who died in 1987, and retired Cardinal Desmond Connell – for not giving allegations and information on abusers to legal authorities.\n\nThe responses of the Catholic Church to the sex abuse cases can be viewed on three levels: the diocesan level, the episcopal conference level, and the Vatican. Responses to the scandal proceeded at levels in parallel, with the higher levels becoming progressively more involved as the gravity of the problem became more apparent. For the most part, responding to allegations of sexual abuse in a diocese was left to the jurisdiction of the local bishop or archbishop. According to Thomas Plante, a psychiatrist specializing in abuse counseling and considered an expert on clerical abuse, \"unlike most large organizations that maintain a variety of middle management positions, the organizational structure of the Catholic Church is a fairly flat structure. Therefore, prior to the Church clergy abuse crisis in 2002, each bishop decided for himself how to manage these cases and the allegations of child sexual abuse by priests. Some have handled these matters very poorly (as evidenced in Boston) while others have handled these issues very well.\"\n\nAfter the number of allegations exploded following the \"Boston Globe\"'s series of articles, the breadth and depth of the scandals became apparent in dioceses across the United States. The U.S. bishops felt compelled to formulate a coordinated response at the episcopal conference level. Although the Vatican did not respond immediately to the series of articles published by the \"Boston Globe\" in 2002, it has been reported that Vatican officials were, in fact, monitoring the situation in the U.S. closely.\n\nJohn L. Allen, Jr., senior correspondent for the \"National Catholic Reporter\", characterized the reaction of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) as calling for \"swift, sure and final punishment for priests who are guilty of this kind of misconduct.\" In contrast to this, Allen characterized the Vatican's primary concern as wanting to make sure \"that everyone's rights are respected, including the rights of accused clergy\" and wanting to affirm that it is not acceptable to \"remedy the injustice of sexual abuse with the injustice of railroading priests who may or may not be guilty.\"\n\nAccording to the John Jay Report, one in four child sex abuse allegations were made within 10 years of the incident. Half were made between 10 and 30 years after the incident and the remaining 25% were reported more than 30 years after the incident. The Report points at: failure by the RCC hierarchy in the United States to grasp the seriousness of the problem, overemphasis on the need to avoid a scandal, use of unqualified treatment centers for clergy removed for rehabilitation, a sort of misguided willingness by bishops to forgive sexual misconduct as a moral failing and not treat it a crime, allowance of recidivism upon reassignment of the priest, and insufficient accountability of the hierarchy for inaction.\n\nSince 2002, a major focus of the lawsuits and media attention has been criticism of the approach taken by bishops when dealing with allegations of sexual abuse by priests. As a general rule, the allegations were not reported to legal authority for investigation and prosecution. Instead, many dioceses directed the offending priests to seek psychiatric treatment and for assessment of the risk of re-offending. In 2004, according to the John Jay report, nearly 40% of accused priests participated in psychiatric treatment programs. The remaining priests did not undergo abuse counseling because allegations of sexual abuse were only made after their death. The more allegations made against a priest, the more likely he was to participate in treatment.\n\nSome bishops repeatedly moved offending priests from parish to parish after abuse counseling, where they still had personal contact with children. According to the USCCB, Catholic bishops in the 1950s and 1960s viewed sexual abuse by priests as \"a spiritual problem, one requiring a spiritual solution, i.e. prayer\".\n\nHowever, starting in the 1960s, the bishops came to adopt an emerging view based on the advice of medical personnel who recommended psychiatric and psychological treatment for those who sexually abused minors. This view asserted that with treatment priests who had molested children could safely be placed back into ministry, although perhaps with certain restrictions such as not being in contact with children. This approach viewed pedophilia as an addiction, such as alcoholism which can be treated and restrained.\n\nSome of the North American treatment facilities most frequently used for this purpose included the Saint Luke Institute in Maryland; centers operated by the Servants of the Paraclete in Jemez Springs, New Mexico, and St. Louis, Missouri; John Vianney Center in Downingtown, Pennsylvania.; the Institute of Living in Hartford, Connecticut; and the Southdown Institute near Toronto, Ontario in Canada. This approach continued into the mid-1980s, a period which the USCCB characterizes as the \"tipping point in the understanding of the problem within the church and in society\". According to researcher Paul Isley, however, research on priest offenders is virtually nonexistent and the claims of unprecedented treatment success with clergy offenders have not been supported by published data.\n\nThe USCCB perceived a lack of adequate procedures for the prevention of sexual abuse of minors, the reporting of allegations of such abuse and the handling of those reports. In response to deficiencies in canonical and secular law, both ecclesiastical and civil authorities have implemented procedures and laws to prevent sexual abuse of minors by clergy and to report and punish it if and when it occurs. In June 2002, the USCCB adopted a zero tolerance policy to future sex abuse that required responding to allegations of sexual abuse. It promulgated a Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People that pledged the Catholic Church in the U.S. to providing a \"safe environment\" for all children in Church-sponsored activities.\n\nThe Charter instituted reforms to prevent future abuse by requiring background checks for Church employees. The Charter requires dioceses faced with an allegation to alert the authorities, conduct an investigation and remove the accused from duty. A \"Dallas Morning News\" article reported nearly two-thirds of the bishops attending the conference had covered for sexually abusive priests. According to \"Catholic News Service\" by 2008, the U.S. church had trained \"5.8 million children to recognize and report abuse,\" run criminal checks on volunteers and employees and trained them to create a safe environment for children.\n\nA 2006 study by Jesuit Georgetown University Center for Applied Research in the Apostolate (CARA) found lay Catholics were unaware of the specific steps that the church has decided to take, but 78% strongly approved reporting allegations of sexual abuse to civil authorities and 76% strongly approved of removing people credibly accused of sexual abuse of a minor.\n\nIn 2005, Kathleen McChesney of the USCCB said \"In 2004, at least 1,092 allegations of sexual abuse were made against at least 756 Catholic priests and deacons in the United States. [ ... ] What is over is the denial that this problem exists, and what is over is the reluctance of the Church to deal openly with the public about the nature and extent of the problem.\"\n\nIn early 2009, the sexual impropriety including molesting boys by Marcial Maciel Degollado, the founder of the Legion of Christ, a Roman Catholic congregation of pontifical right made up of priests and seminarians studying for the priesthood, was disclosed publicly. In March, the Vatican ordered an apostolic visitation of the sexual abuse scandal in the Legion of Christ. In June 2009 Vatican authorities named five bishops from five different countries, each one in charge of investigating the Legionaries in a particular part of the world.\n\nIn June 2001, the hierarchy of the Catholic Church in Ireland established the Catholic Church Commission on Child Sexual Abuse (Ireland), also known as the Hussey Commission, to investigate how complaints about clerical abuse of minors have been handled over the last three decades.\n\nIn February 2002, 18 religious orders agreed to provide more than 128 million euros (approximately $128 million) in compensation to the victims of childhood abuse. Most of the money was raised from church property transfers to the State; in fact the actual value of the settlement is estimated to be about half that, and the Archbisop of Dublin in 2009 accused the orders of falling short even on the amount promised, and said the church's failure to complete transfers of cash, property and land worth at least €128 million over the past seven years \"is stunning\".\n\nThe agreement also stipulated that any victims who accepted monetary settlements would waive their right to sue both the church and the government, and that the identities of the accused abusers was to be kept secret. In 2009 the orders agreed to increase their contribution; it was learned that total compensation paid to victims was about €1.2 billion, so that until then the promised €128 m had been about 10% of the total.\n\nIn September 2010 the Vatican announced that it would shortly begin an investigation into how the Irish Catholic Establishment's handling of the sex abuse and subsequent scandal. This enquiry will include consulting groups representing victims. Irish Survivors of Child Abuse (Soca), stated that \"Irish Soca and other survivors' groups are excited over the apostolic visitation because it's the end of allowing the Irish hierarchy to handle the scandal and crises on their own.\"\n\nWhen sexual scandals involving Catholic priests in the US came to light in 2002, the Philippines media began reporting on abuses by local priests. In July of that year, the Catholic Bishops Conference of the Philippines apologized for sexual misconduct committed by its priests over the last two decades and committed to drafting guidelines on how to deal with allegations of such offenses. According to Archbishop Orlando Quevedo, president of the Catholic Bishops Conference, about 200 of the country's 7,000 priests may have committed \"sexual misconduct\" – including child abuse, homosexuality and affairs – over the past two decades.\n\nIn August 2011, activist women's group \"Gabriela\" assisted a 17-year-old girl in filing sexual abuse allegations against a priest in Butuan province. The bishop of Butuan, Juan de Dios Pueblos, took the priest under his custody without handing him over to civil and church authorities. This behaviour was also heavily criticized by retired Archbishop Oscar V. Cruz, who blamed Pueblos for showing his priests the \"wrong way\".\n\nIn June 2002, the USCCB established the \"Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People\", a comprehensive set of procedures for addressing allegations of sexual abuse of minors by Catholic clergy. The charter includes guidelines for reconciliation, healing, accountability, reporting, and prevention of future acts of abuse.\n\nThe USCCB's National Review Board for the Protection of Children and Young People now requires dioceses faced with an allegation of child sexual abuse (where the victim is currently a minor) to alert the authorities, conduct an investigation, and (in the case of an admission of guilt or finding of guilt by an appropriate investigation) remove the accused from duty.\n\nThe Board also approached John Jay College of Criminal Justice to conduct a descriptive study of the nature and scope of the problem of child sexual abuse in the Catholic Church as well as the costs to the church of the scandal. Data collection commenced in March 2003, and ended in February 2004. The findings of this study are discussed elsewhere on this page.\n\nThe 2001 Lord Nolan recommendations, accepted in full by the bishops, became model guidelines for other bishops' conferences around the world, and a model for other institutions in Britain. One guideline was that in each parish there should be a \"safeguarding officer\", a lay person who would vet through the Criminal Records Bureau, a government agency, anyone in the parish who had access to young people or vulnerable adults, and would be a contact for anyone with any concerns.\n\nJohn L. Allen, Jr., Vatican correspondent for the \"National Catholic Reporter\", commented that many American Catholics saw the Vatican's initial silence on the \"Boston Globe\" stories as showing a lack of concern or awareness about the issue. However, Allen said that he didn't know anyone in the Roman Curia who was not at least horrified \"by the revelations that came out of the \"Globe\" and elsewhere\" or who would defend \"Cardinal Law's handling of the cases in Boston\" or \"the rather shocking lack of oversight that revealed itself\" though \"they might have different analyses of what should have happened to him\". Allen described the Vatican's perspective as being somewhat skeptical of the media handling of the scandal. In addition, he asserted that the Vatican viewed American cultural attitudes toward sexuality as being somewhat hysterical as well as exhibiting a lack of understanding of the Catholic Church.\n\nAccording to Allen, cultural differences between the Vatican and American Catholics complicated the process of formulating a comprehensive response to the sexual abuse scandal: \"there is a lot about the American culture and the American Church that puzzles people in the Vatican, and there is much about the Vatican that puzzles Americans and English speakers generally.\"\n\nCardinal Alfredo Ottaviani, Secretary of the Sacred Congregation of the Holy Office, sent a letter which became known as the Crimen sollicitationis. In this letter, addressed to \"all Patriarchs, Archbishops, Bishops and other Local Ordinaries, including those of Eastern Rite\", the Holy Office laid down procedures to be followed in dealing with cases of clerics (priests or bishops) of the Catholic Church accused of having used the sacrament of Penance to make sexual advances to penitents; its rules were more specific than the generic ones in the Code of Canon Law.\n\nIn addition, it instructed that the same procedures be used when dealing with denunciations of homosexual, pedophile or zoophile behaviour by clerics. It repeated the rule that any Catholic who failed for over a month to denounce a priest who had made such advances in connection with confession was automatically excommunicated and could be absolved only after actually denouncing the priest to the Ordinary of the place or to the Holy Congregation of the Holy Office, or at least promising seriously to do so.\n\nThe Vatican promulgated a revised Code of Canon Law which included a canon (1395, §2) which explicitly named sex with a minor by clerics as a canonical crime \"to be punished with just penalties, not excluding dismissal from the clerical state if the case so warrants.\" According to De delictis gravioribus, the letter sent in May 2001 by then Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (who later became Pope Benedict XVI) – Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, and according to Father Thomas Patrick Doyle, who has served as an expert witness on Pontifical Canon Law, Crimen Sollicitationis was in force until May 2001.\nIn April, Pope John Paul II issued a letter stating that \"a sin against the Sixth Commandment of the Decalogue by a cleric with a minor under 18 years of age is to be considered a grave sin, or 'delictum gravius.'\" In the letter, \"Sacramentorum sanctitatis tutela\" (Safeguarding the Sanctity of the Sacraments), \"§1 Reservation to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) is also extended to a delict against the sixth commandment of the Decalogue committed by a cleric with a minor below the age of eighteen years. §2 One who has perpetrated the delict mentioned in §1 is to be punished according to the gravity of the offense, not excluding dismissal or deposition.\" In other words, the CDF was given a broader mandate to address the sex abuse cases only from 2001 – prior to that date, the 1917 Code of Canon Law permitted sexual abuse cases by the clergy to be handled by the Congregation, for the Congregation to open cases itself, or for the Ordinary to handle judgement. All priestly sex crimes cases were placed under the CDF which, in the majority of cases, then recommended immediate action.\n\nThe \"Guide to Understanding Basic CDF Procedures concerning Sexual Abuse Allegations\" explain briefly the procedures which have been derived from the 1983 Code of Canon Law and put in place since 30 April (the same day). Among the points made:\n\nIn May, in line with the 1983 Code of Canon Law and the 1990 Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches, a letter from the CDF was sent to the Catholic bishops.\n\nThe Vatican instituted reforms to prevent future United States abuse by requiring background checks for all church employees who have contact with children. Since then, in the US, over 2 million volunteers and employees; 52,000 clerics; 6,205 candidates for ordination have had their backgrounds evaluated.\n\nIn June, the USCCB established the \"Charter for the Protection of Children and Young People\", a comprehensive set of procedures for addressing allegations of sexual abuse of minors by Catholic clergy. (More details in the Episcopal Responses section above.)\n\nPope John Paul II stated that \"there is no place in the priesthood and religious life for those who would harm the young\".\n\nIn April, the Pontifical Academy for Life organized a three-day conference, entitled \"Abuse of Children and Young People by Catholic Priests and Religious\", where eight non-Catholic psychiatric experts were invited to speak to near all Vatican dicasteries' representatives. The panel of experts overwhelmingly opposed implementation of policies of \"zero-tolerance\" such as was proposed by the US Conference of Catholic Bishops. One expert called such policies a \"case of overkill\" since they do not permit flexibility to allow for differences among individual cases.\n\nIn June, Louisville, Kentucky lawyer William McMurry filed suit against the Vatican on behalf of three men alleging abuse as far back as 1928, accusing church leaders of organizing a cover-up of cases of sexual abuse of children.\n\nIn August, Pope Benedict was personally accused in a lawsuit of conspiring to cover up the molestation of three boys in Texas by Juan Carlos Patino-Arango in Archdiocese of Galveston-Houston. He sought and obtained immunity from prosecution as head of state of the Holy See. The Department of State \"recognize[d] and allow[ed] the immunity of Pope Benedict XVI from this suit.\" See pope#International position for information on head-of-state immunity of a pope.\n\nIn November, the Vatican published \"Criteria for the Discernment of Vocation for Persons with Homosexual Tendencies\", issuing new rules which forbid ordination of men with \"deep-seated homosexual tendencies.\" While the preparation for this document had started ten years before its publication, this instruction is seen as an official answer by the Catholic Church to what was seen as a \"pedophile priest\" crisis. The US National Review Board cited the preponderance of adolescent males among the victims of clerical sexual abuse of minors in its report. The document was criticized for what some see as its implying that homosexuality is tied to the sexual abuse of children.\n\nArchbishop Csaba Ternyak, secretary of the Congregation for Clergy, put the following question to the experts: \"[T]o what degree one can talk about the rehabilitation of the offender, what are the most effective methods of treatment, and on what grounds we can say that a person who has never offended is at risk to sexually molest someone?\"\n\nTernyak spoke about the way that the crisis had damaged the priest-bishop relationship. He noted that there was a \"sense of gloom\" felt by the overwhelming majority of priests who had not been accused of any abuse but nonetheless who perceived that their bishops had turned against them and therefore had \"become disillusioned about the effectiveness of the laws of the Church to defend their dignity and their inalienable rights\". Ternyak also noted that \"there have been more than a few suicides among accused priests.\"\n\nIn April, during a visit to the United States, Pope Benedict admitted that he was \"deeply ashamed\" of the clergy sex abuse scandal that has devastated the American church. Benedict pledged that pedophiles would not be priests in the Roman Catholic Church. Pope Benedict also apologized for child abuse scandal in Australia.\n\nIn November, the United States Court of Appeals in Cincinnati denied the Vatican's claim of sovereign immunity, and allowed a lawsuit against the Catholic Church government by three men who claim they were sexually abused as children by priests in the Louisville, Kentucky, US archdiocese to proceed. The Vatican did not appeal the ruling.\n\nTwo researchers reported that abuse cases had \"steeply declined\" after 1985 and that responses to abuse had changed substantially over 50 years, with suspension becoming more common than reinstatement.\n\nIn a statement, read by Archbishop Silvano Maria Tomasi at a meeting of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva on 22 September 2009, the Holy See stated that the majority of Catholic clergy who had committed acts of sexual abuse against under-18-year-olds should not be viewed as pedophiles, but as homosexuals who are attracted to sex with adolescent males. The statement said that rather than pedophilia, \"it would be more correct to speak of ephebophilia; being a homosexual attraction to adolescent males ... Of all priests involved in the abuses, 80 to 90% belong to this sexual orientation minority which is sexually engaged with adolescent boys between the ages of 11 and 17.\"\n\nHowever, Margaret Smith and Karen Terry, two researchers who worked on the John Jay Report, cautioned against equating the high incidence of abuse by priests against boys with homosexuality, calling it an oversimplification and \"an unwarranted conclusion\" to assert that the majority of priests who abused male victims are gay. Though \"the majority of the abusive acts were homosexual in nature ... participation in homosexual acts is not the same as sexual identity as a gay man.\" She further stated that \"the idea of sexual identity [should] be separated from the problem of sexual abuse... [A]t this point, we do not find a connection between homosexual identity and the increased likelihood of subsequent abuse from the data that we have right now.\" Tomasi's move angered many gay rights organisations, who claimed it was an attempt by the Vatican to redefine the Church's past problems with pedophilia as problems with homosexuality.\n\nEmpirical research shows that sexual orientation does not affect the likelihood that people will abuse children. Many child molesters cannot be characterized as having an adult sexual orientation at all; they are fixated on children.\n\nIn April 2010, in response to extensive negative publicity and criticism of the Pope, the Vatican entered what the Associated Press called \"full damage control mode\". Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, the Vatican's secretary of state, during a visit to Chile, linked the scandal to homosexuality. In response to widespread criticism of that statement, Vatican spokesman Federico Lombardi said Bertone's statement went outside the remit of \"church authorities\", while maintaining that \"the statement was aimed at 'clarifying' Cardinal Bertone's remarks and should not be seen as the Holy See 'distancing' itself from them.\" He also noted that 10 per cent of the cases concerned paedophilia in the \"strict sense\", and the other 90 per cent concerned sex between priests and adolescents. Giovanni Maria Vian, editor of \"L'Osservatore Romano\", the Vatican's official newspaper, said the continuing criticism of Pope Benedict XVI and the Vatican in handling the clerical sex abuse crisis is part of a media campaign to sell newspapers. The Pope issued a statement that the \"Church must do penance for abuse cases\".\n\nMsgr. Charles J. Scicluna explained in an interview with the Italian newspaper \"Avvenire\": \"Between 1975 and 1985 I do not believe that any cases of pedophilia committed by priests were brought to the attention of our Congregation. Moreover, following the promulgation of the 1983 Code of Canon Law, there was a period of uncertainty as to which of the \"delicta graviora\" were reserved to the competency of this dicastery. Only with the 2001 \"Motu Proprio\" did the crime of pedophilia again become our exclusive remit... In the years (2001–2010) the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) had \"considered accusations concerning around three thousand cases of diocesan and religious priests, which refer to crimes committed over the last fifty years.\"\n\nPope Benedict issued an apology to those who had suffered from child abuse in Ireland in March 2010. The letter stated that the Pope was \"truly sorry\" for what they had suffered, and that \"nothing can undo the wrong you have endured. Your trust has been betrayed and your dignity violated.\" Nevertheless, the letter was not enough to satisfy many critics, who felt that the letter failed to address their concerns, and mistakenly presented the abuse as an issue within the Church in Ireland, rather than acknowledging that it was a systemic problem.\n\nIn July 2010 the Vatican issued a document to clarify their position. They doubled the length of time after the 18th birthday of the victim that clergymen can be tried in a church court and to streamline the processes for removing pedophile priests. However, the new rules were less strict than those already in place in the United States and lacked the clarity that pedophilia is a civil offense of the existing rules there.\n\nIn May, the Vatican published new guidelines, drawn up by Cardinal William Levada, the head of the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith, on dealing with the clergy sexual abuse cases. The guidelines tell the bishops and heads of Catholic religious orders worldwide to develop \"clear and coordinated\" procedures for dealing with the sexual abuse allegation by May 2012. The guidelines instruct the bishops to cooperate with the police and respect the relevant local laws in investigating and reporting allegations of sexual abuse by the clergy to the civic authorities, but do not make such reporting mandatory. The guidelines also reinforce bishops' exclusive authority in dealing with abuse cases. Victims advocacy groups criticized the new guidelines as insufficient, arguing that the recommendations do not have the status of church law and do not provide any specific enforcement mechanisms.\n\nThe Pontifical Commission for the Protection of Minors () was instituted by Pope Francis on 22 March 2014 for the safeguarding of minors. It is headed by Boston's cardinal archbishop, Sean P. O'Malley, O.F.M. Cap..\n\nIn November 2014, Pope Francis laicized and excommunicated pedophile priest Father Jose Mercau of Argentina.\n\nAt the beginning of 2018, Francis denied overwhelming reports of widespread sexual abuse by priests in Chile. In the face of the resulting outcry, he introduced an investigation that led to every bishop in Chile submitting his resignation; only a few of these were accepted, however.\n\nAt mid-year, amidst a series of abuse scandals in many countries, including the revelation that over a 50-year period, more than 300 priests were plausibly accused of abuse in the state of Pennsylvania alone, Pope Francis spoke of his \"shame\", without however offering concrete steps to remove abusive priests or sanction those who took part in cover-ups.\n\nWhile the church in the United States claims to have addressed the issue, some disagree. Mark Honigsbaum of \"The Guardian\" wrote in 2006 that, \"despite the National Review Board's own estimates that there have been some 5,000 abusive priests in the US, to date 150 have been successfully prosecuted.\" Some critics of the church, such as Patrick Wall, attribute this to a lack of cooperation from the church. In California, for example, the archdiocese has sought to block the disclosure of confidential counseling records on two priests, arguing that such action would violate their First Amendment right on religious protection. Paul Lakeland claims Church leaders who enabled abuse were too frequently careless about their own accountability and the accountability of perpetrators.\n\nIn 2010, the BBC reported that the latest research by experts indicate that Catholic priests may be no more likely than others to abuse. However, a major cause of the scandal was the cover-ups and other alleged shortcomings in the way the church hierarchy has dealt with the abuses. Particularly, the actions of Catholic bishops in responding to allegations of clerical abuse were harshly criticized.\n\nIn September 2010, Pope Benedict XVI lamented that the Roman Catholic Church had not been vigilant enough or quick enough in responding to the problem of sexual abuse by Catholic clergy. Pope Benedict laicized 400 priests for abuses in two years of his papacy. A representative of Survivors Network of those Abused by Priests (SNAP), a group representing abuse victims, criticized the pope's remarks as \"disingenuous\" because, in her opinion, the church had in fact been \"prompt and vigilant\" in concealing the scandal. After Benedict's resignation in 2013, he was criticized by SNAP for allegedly protecting the church's reputation \"over the safety of children.\" Representatives from the Center for Constitutional Rights (at the time engaged in an International Criminal Court case against Pope Benedict in which they were acting for SNAP), alleged that Pope Benedict had been directly involved in covering up some of the crimes.\n\nThe Catholic hierarchy has been criticized for not acting more quickly and decisively to remove, laicize and report priests accused of sexual misconduct. Cardinal Roger Mahony of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles, said: \"We have said repeatedly that ... our understanding of this problem and the way it's dealt with today evolved, and that in those years ago, decades ago, people didn't realize how serious this was, and so, rather than pulling people out of ministry directly and fully, they were moved.\"\n\nOne early opponent of the treatment of sexually abusive priests was Father Gerald Fitzgerald, the founder of The Congregation of the Servants of the Paraclete. Although Fitzgerald started the Servants of the Paraclete to assist priests who were struggling with alcohol and substance abuse problems, he soon began receiving priests who had sexually abused minors. Initially, Fitzgerald attempted to treat such priests using the same spiritual methods that he used with his other \"guests\". However, as he grew convinced of the futility of treating sexually abusive priests, Fitzgerald came to oppose vehemently the return of sexual abusers to duties as parish priests. He wrote regularly to bishops in the United States and to Vatican officials, including the pope, of his opinion that many sexual abusers in the priesthood could not be cured and should be laicizied immediately.\n\nEventually, Fitzgerald lost control of the Servants of the Paraclete. The center began to employ medical and psychological professionals who added psychiatry and medical treatment to the spiritual regimen of treatment favored by Fitzgerald. Fitzgerald continued to oppose these modifications to his treatment regimen until his death in 1969.\n\nBishop Manuel D. Moreno of Tucson, Arizona, United States repeatedly attempted to have two local abusive priests laicized and disciplined, pleading unsuccessfully in a letter of April 1997 with Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger as head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith to have one laicized; he was first suspended in 1990 and convicted by the church in 1997 of five crimes, including sexual solicitation in the confessional. The two were finally laicized in 2004. Bishop Moreno had been strongly criticized for failing to take action until details of his efforts became public.\n\nIn a \"The New York Times\" article, Bishop Blase J. Cupich, chairman of the United States Bishops Committee for the Protection of Children and Young People, is quoted explaining why Father Fitzgerald's advice \"went largely unheeded for 50 years\": First, \"cases of sexually abusive priests were considered to be rare.\" Second, Father Fitzgerald's, \"views, by and large, were considered bizarre with regard to not treating people medically, but only spiritually, and also segregating a whole population with sexual problems on a deserted island.\" And finally, \"There was mounting evidence in the world of psychology that indicated that when medical treatment is given, these people can, in fact, go back to ministry.\" This was a view which Cupich characterized as one that \"the bishops came to regret.\"\n\nIn 2010 several secular and liberal Catholics were calling for Pope Benedict XVI's resignation, citing the actions of then Cardinal Ratzinger's blocking of efforts to remove a priest convicted of child abuse. The pope did eventually resign in 2013, although he said that he did so because of his declining health.\n\nIn 2012, Monsignor William Lynn became the first United States church official to be convicted of child endangerment because of his part in covering up child sex abuse allegations by clergy. Lynn was responsible for making recommendations as to the assignment of clergy in the Archdiocese of Philadelphia. He was found guilty of one count of endangering the welfare of a child. On 24 July 2012, Lynn was sentenced to three to six years in prison.\n\nAs reported by the \"Boston Globe,\" some bishops had facilitated compensation payments to victims on condition that the allegations remained secret. For example, according to the \"Boston Globe\", the Archdiocese of Boston secretly settled child sexual abuse claims against at least 70 priests from 1992 to 2002.\n\nIn November 2009, the Irish Commission to Inquire into Child Abuse reported its findings in which it concluded that:\n\"the Dublin Archdiocese's pre-occupations in dealing with cases of child sexual abuse, at least until the mid 1990s, were the maintenance of secrecy, the avoidance of scandal, the protection of the reputation of the Church, and the preservation of its assets. All other considerations, including the welfare of children and justice for victims, were subordinated to these priorities. The Archdiocese did not implement its own canon law rules and did its best to avoid any application of the law of the State\".\n\nIn April 2010, Christopher Hitchens and Richard Dawkins wanted to prosecute the Pope for crimes against humanity due to what they see as his role in intentionally covering up abuse by priests. In a CNN interview a few days later, however, Dawkins declined to discuss the international crime law court's definition of crimes against humanity, saying it is a difficult legal question.\nIn April 2010, a lawsuit was filed in the Milwaukee Federal Court by an anonymous \"John Doe 16\" against the Vatican and Pope Benedict XVI. The plaintiff accused Ratzinger and others of having covered up abuse cases to avoid scandal to the detriment of the concerned children.\nIn February 2011, two German lawyers initiated charges against Pope Benedict XVI at the International Criminal Court. As one of the reasons for the charges they referred also to the \"strong suspicion\" that Joseph Ratzinger, as head of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, covered up the sexual abuse of children and youths and protected the perpetrators.\n\nInternal division became public, with Christoph Cardinal Schönborn accusing Cardinal Angelo Sodano of blocking Ratzinger's investigation of a high-profile case in the mid 1990s.\n\nIn the trial of the French bishop Pierre Pican, who received a suspended jail sentence for failing to denounce an abusive priest, the retired Cardinal Dario Castrillon Hoyos wrote a letter to support Pican in his decision. Exposed to heavy critiques, Hoyos claimed to have had the approval of Pope John Paul II.\n\nIn 2011 Hoyos was heavily criticized again. This time the Congregation for the Clergy was blamed of having opposed in 1997 to the newly adapted rules of the Irish bishops, demanding the denouncement of every abusive priest to the police. The Archbishop of Dublin Diarmuid Martin described the cooperation with the Congregation for the Clergy as \"disastrous\".\n\nA Vatican spokesman stated, \"When individual institutions of national churches are implicated, that does not regard the competence of the Holy See...The competence of the Holy See is at the level of the Holy See.\"<ref name=\"BostonGlobe11/2/1013\">No excuses for priestly child abuse</ref>\n\nCiting canons 331 and 333 of the \"1983 Code of Canon Law\", James Carroll of \"The Boston Globe\" asserted that \"On the question of how far papal authority extends, the canon law of the Catholic Church could not be clearer\" and alleges that the Holy See's denial of competency contravenes canon law. Canon 331 states that \"The vicar of Christ.. . possesses full, immediate, and universal ordinary power in the Church, which he is always able to exercise freely\", and canon 333 states that \"...By virtue of his office, the Roman pontiff not only possesses power over the universal church, but also obtains the primacy of ordinary power over all particular churches and groups of them.\"\n\nSilvano Tomasi, the Holy See's ambassador to the U.N. stated that the Vatican was not responsible for abusive priests because \"priests are citizens of their own states, and they fall under the jurisdiction of their own country\" but the United Nations report differed claiming that since priests are \"bound by obedience to the pope\" under canon law, then the Holy See is accountable. The report also urged the Vatican to insist that priests and bishops involve the police in all abuse reports and end a \"code of silence\" leading to whistleblowers being \"ostracized, demoted and fired.\" \n\nTo place the cases under the competence of the Vatican's Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith has been criticized by some as making the process more secretive and lengthening the time required to address the allegations. For example, in his biography of John Paul II, David Yallop asserts that the backlog of referrals to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith for action against sexually abusive priests is so large that it takes 18 months to merely get a reply.\n\nVatican officials have expressed concern that the church's insistence on confidentiality in its treatment of priestly sexual abuse cases was seen as a ban on reporting serious accusations to the civil authorities. Early in 2010 Cardinal Claudio Hummes, the head of the Congregation for Clergy, finally said that instances of sexual abuse by priests were \"criminal facts\" as well as serious sins and required co-operation with the civil justice system. Italian academic described the conspiracy involved in hiding the offense as \"omerta\", the Mafia code of silence, and said that \"We can hypothesise that a greater female presence, not at a subordinate level, would have been able to rip the veil of masculine secrecy that in the past often covered the denunciation of these misdeeds with silence\".\n\nSome parties have interpreted the \"Crimen sollicitationis\" – a 1962 document (\"Instruction\") of the Holy Office (which is now called the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith) codifying procedures to be followed in cases of priests or bishops of the Catholic Church accused of having used the sacrament of Penance to make sexual advances to penitents – as a directive from the Vatican to keep all allegations of sexual abuse secret, leading to widespread media coverage of its contents. Lawyers for some of those making abuse allegations claimed that the document demonstrated a systematic conspiracy to conceal such crimes. The Vatican responded that the document was not only widely misinterpreted, but moreover had been superseded by more recent guidelines in the 1960s and 1970s, and especially the 1983 Code of Canon Law.\n\nMary Dispenza states further that crimes against children took place in the past, take place now and will continue in the future unless Pope Francis and the bishops act decisively to ensure that child safety has higher priority than protecting priests and the image of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, in early 2014, issued a report asserting that the pope and the Roman Catholic Church have not done enough and protect their reputation rather than protect children. The panel of the committee wants all known or suspected child molesters removed, archives on abusers and Bishops who covered up abuse opened, and instances of abuse handed to law enforcement agencies to be investigated and prosecuted. A joint statement of the panel said,\n\nCommittee chair, Kirsten Sandberg enumerated some major findings, that pedophile priests were sent to new parishes or other countries without police being informed, that the Vatican never insisted on bishops reporting abuse to police, and that known abusers still have access to children. Barbara Blaine of SNAP said,\nThe UN report prompted discussions of specific areas of controversy, including secrecy among bishops and Vatican statements denying responsibility which in canon law they have.\n\nBritish author and Catholic social activist Paul Vallely wrote that he felt the UN report had been hurt by the Commission having gone well beyond the issue of child abuse to issues such as contraception. However, he also felt the report did bring important pressure on the Vatican on important issues like reporting cases to police.\n\nThe media coverage of Catholic sex abuse cases is a major aspect of the academic literature surrounding the pederastic priest scandal.\n\nIn 2002 the discovery that the sex abuse by Catholic priests was widespread in the U.S. received significant media coverage. For the first 100 days \"The New York Times\" had 225 pieces, including news and commentary, and the story appeared on its front page on 26 occasions.\n\nCommentator Tom Hoopes wrote that:\n\nduring the first half of 2002, the 61 largest newspapers in California ran nearly 2,000 stories about sexual abuse in Catholic institutions, mostly concerning past allegations. During the same period, those newspapers ran four stories about the federal government’s discovery of the much larger — and ongoing — abuse scandal in public schools.\n\nAnglican writer Philip Jenkins supported many of these arguments stating that media coverage of the abuse story had become \"..a gross efflorescence of anti-catholic rhetoric.\".\n\nWalter V. Robinson, an American journalist and journalism professor, led the \"Boston Globe\"'s coverage of the Roman Catholic sex abuse cases, for which the newspaper won the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service. Robinson was also a Pulitzer Prize finalist in Investigative Reporting in 2007.\n\nIn Ireland television journalism similarly played a key role in helping public awareness of widespread sexual abuse of children by priests.\n\nA \"The Wall Street Journal\"-NBC News poll found that 64 percent of those queried thought Catholic priests \"frequently\" abused children; however, there is no data that indicates that priests commit abuse more often than the general population of males.\n\nProduced by a victim of clerical sex abuse for the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) in 2006, the documentary \"Sex Crimes and the Vatican\" included the claim that all allegations of sex abuse are to be sent to the Vatican rather than the civil authorities, and that \"a secret church decree called 'Crimen sollicitationis' ... imposes the strictest oath of secrecy on the child victim, the priest dealing with the allegation, and any witnesses. Breaking that oath means instant banishment from the Catholic Church – excommunication.\" The documentary quoted the 2005 Ferns Report: \"A culture of secrecy and fear of scandal that led bishops to place the interests of the Catholic Church ahead of the safety of children\".\n\nCanon lawyer Thomas Doyle, who was included in the documentary as supporting the picture that it presented, later wrote with regard to the 1962 \"Crimen sollicitations\" and the 2001 \"De delictis gravioribus\" as well as the Church's formal investigation into charges of abuse: \"There is no basis to assume that the Holy See envisioned this process to be a substitute for any secular legal process, criminal or civil. It is also incorrect to assume, as some have unfortunately done, that these two Vatican documents are proof of a conspiracy to hide sexually abusive priests or to prevent the disclosure of sexual crimes committed by clerics to secular authorities.\" However, two years later in 2008 Doyle said of attempts to reform the Catholic Church that it was like \"trudging through what can best be described as a swamp of toxic waste\".\n\nThe Church was reluctant to provide to the civil authorities information about the Church's own investigations into charges. In the BBC documentary, Rick Romley, a district attorney who initiated an investigation of the Diocese of Phoenix, stated that \"the secrecy, the obstruction I saw during my investigation was unparalleled in my entire career as a DA...it was so difficult to obtain any information from the Church at all.\" He reported archives of documents and incriminating evidence pertaining to sex abuse that were kept from the authorities, which under the law could not be subpoenaed. \"The Church fails to acknowledge such a serious problem but more than that, it is not a passiveness but an openly obstructive way of not allowing authorities to try to stop the abuse within the Church. They fought us every step of the way.\"\n\nThere have been many debates over the causes of sex abuse cases.\n\nThe 2004 John Jay Report, a report commissioned by the US Conference of Catholic Bishops, stated \"the problem was largely the result of poor seminary training and insufficient emotional support for men ordained in the 1940s and 1950s.\" A report by the National Review Board issued simultaneously with the \"John Jay Report\" pointed to two major deficiencies on the part of seminaries: failure to screen candidates adequately, followed by failure to \"form\" these candidates appropriately for the challenges of celibacy. These themes are taken up by a recent memoir by Vincent J. Miles that combines a first-hand account of his life in a minor seminary during the 1960s with a review of the scientific literature about sexually abusive behavior. Miles identifies specific aspects of seminary life that could have predisposed future priests to engage in such behavior.\n\nSome bishops and psychiatrists have asserted that the prevailing psychology of the times suggested that people could be cured of such behavior through counseling. Thomas Plante, a psychiatrist specializing in abuse counseling and considered an expert on clerical abuse, states \"the vast majority of the research on sexual abuse of minors didn't emerge until the early 1980s. So, it appeared reasonable at the time to treat these men and then return them to their priestly duties. In hindsight, this was a tragic mistake.\"\n\nRobert S. Bennett, the Roman Catholic Washington attorney who headed the National Review Board's research committee, identified \"too much faith in psychiatrists\" as one of the key problems concerning Catholic sex abuse cases. About 40% of the abusive priests had received counseling before being reassigned.\n\nIn \"\", Cimbolic & Cartor (2006) noted that because of the large share of post-pubescent male minors among cleric victims there is need to further study the differential variables related to ephebophilia (sexual interest in mid-to-late adolescents, generally ages 15 to 19) versus pedophilia (sexual interest in prepubescent children (generally those 13 years of age or younger) offenders. Cartor, Cimbolic & Tallon (2008) found that 6 percent of the cleric offenders in the John Jay Report are pedophiles, 32 percent ephebophiles, 15 percent 11 and 12 year olds only (both male and female), 20 percent indiscriminate, and 27 percent mildly indiscriminate.\n\nThey also found distinct differences between the pedophile and ephebophile groups. They reported that there may be \"another group of offenders who are more indiscriminate in victim choice and represent a more heterogeneous, but still a distinct offender category\" and suggested further research to determine \"specific variables that are unique to this group and can differentiate these offenders from pedophile and ephebophile offenders\" so as to improve the identification and treatment of both offenders and victims.\n\nAll victims in the John Jay report were minors. Using a non-standard definition of \"pre-pubescent\", the Causes and Context Study of the John Jay College estimated that only a small percentage of offender priests were true pedophiles. The study classified victims as pre-pubescent if they were age 10 or younger, whereas the age bracket specified in the current guidelines issued by the American Psychiatric Association is \"generally age 13 or younger\". A recent book estimates that if the latter definition were used instead of the former, the percentage of victims classified as prepubescent would have been 54% rather than the 18% figure cited by the Causes and Context report, and that a higher percentage of priests would therefore have been classified as pedophiles. The same book also points out that with the pending new definition of \"pedohebephilic disorder\" in DSM-5, an even higher percentage of victims would fall into a category consistent with their abusers having a recognized psychosexual disorder.\n\nIn July 2014, Pope Francis was quoted as having said in an interview that about 8,000 Catholic clergy (2% of the total), including bishops and cardinals, were pedophiles. The Vatican indicated the interview had not been recorded nor notes taken during it and that quotes may have been misattributed in a deliberate attempt to manipulate readers. They stated that Pope Francis had not indicated that any cardinal abusers remained in their position.\n\nAccording to the John-Jay-Report, 80.9% of the abuse victims in the United States were male; and a study by Dr. Thomas Plante found the number may be as high as 90%. A number of books, such as \"The Rite of Sodomy: Homosexuality and the Roman Catholic Church\", have argued that homosexual priests view sex with minors as a \"rite of passage\" for altar boys and other pre-adult males. William Donohue of the Catholic League argued that the Church's pedophile problem was really a \"homosexual crisis\", which some have dismissed as unwarranted by arguing that there's a lack of correlation between a man identifying as homosexual and any particular likelihood he will abuse children. In the United States Father Cozzens quoted figures from 23 percent to 58 percent of homosexual priests, with a higher percentage among younger priests. On the other hand, research on pedophilia in general shows a majority of abusers identify themselves as heterosexual, and the Causes and Context Study of the John Jay Institute found no statistical support for linking homosexual identity and sexual abuse of minors. Additionally \"The New York Times\" reported \"the abuse decreased as more gay priests began serving the church.\"\n\nOpinion seems divided on whether there is any definite link or connection between the Roman Catholic institution of celibacy and incidences of child abuse by Catholic clergy.\n\nA 2005 article in the conservative Irish weekly the \"Western People\" proposed that clerical celibacy contributed to the abuse problem by suggesting that the institution of celibacy has created a \"morally superior\" status that is easily misapplied by abusive priests: \"The Irish Church's prospect of a recovery is zero for as long as bishops continue blindly to toe the Vatican line of Pope Benedict XVI that a male celibate priesthood is morally superior to other sections of society.\" Christoph Schönborn and Hans Küng have also said that priestly celibacy could be one of the causes of the sex abuse scandals within the Catholic Church.\n\nErnie Allen, president of the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children, said, \"We don't see the Catholic Church as a hotbed of this or a place that has a bigger problem than anyone else. I can tell you without hesitation that we have seen cases in many religious settings, from traveling evangelists to mainstream ministers to rabbis and others.\" Philip Jenkins, a long-time Catholic turned Episcopalian, asserts that his \"research of cases over the past 20 years indicates no evidence whatever that Catholic or other celibate clergy are any more likely to be involved in misconduct or abuse than clergy of any other denomination—or indeed, than non-clergy. However determined news media may be to see this affair as a crisis of celibacy, the charge is just unsupported.\"\n\nItalian academic Lucetta Scaraffia wrote in \"L'Osservatore Romano\" that a greater presence of women in the Vatican could have prevented clerical sexual abuse from taking place.\n\nThis view has been challenged and severely criticized by several scholars for denying the cases of nuns implicated in sexual abuse and pedophilia. In 1986, a history scholar from Stanford University, recovered archival information about investigations from 1619 to 1623 involving nuns in Vellano, Italy, secretly exploiting illiterate nuns for several years. In 1998, a religious research national survey on revealed a very high number of nuns reporting childhood victimizations of sexual abuse by other nuns. It was further noted that the majority of nun-abuse victims are of the same sex. In 2002, Markham examined the sexual histories of nuns to find several cases of nuns sexually abusing children.\n\nIt has been argued that a shortage of priests caused the Roman Catholic hierarchy to act in such a way to preserve the number of clergy and ensure that sufficient numbers were available to serve their congregations despite serious allegations that some of these priests were unfit for duty. Others disagree and assert that the Church hierarchy's mishandling of the sex abuse cases merely reflected their prevailing attitude at the time towards any illegal or immoral activity by clergy. \n\nIn \"The Courage To Be Catholic: Crisis, Reform, and the Future of the Church\", author George Weigel claims that it was the infidelity to orthodox Roman Catholic teaching, the \"culture of dissent\" of priests, women religious, bishops, theologians, catechists, Church bureaucrats, and activists who \"believed that what the Church proposed as true was actually false\" was mainly responsible for the sexual abuse of parishioners' children by their priests. Cardinal Theodore Edgar McCarrick, retired Archbishop of Washington, blamed the declining morals of the late 20th century as a cause of the high number of child molestations by priests.\n\nThe hypothesis that a purported decline in general moral standards was associated with an increase in abuse by clergy was promoted by a study by John Jay College funded by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. The study claimed that the liberal 1960s caused the increase in abuse, and the conservative Reagan years led to its decline. The study was branded the 'Woodstock Defence' by critics who said that the study's own figures showed a surge in abuse reported from the 1950s, and the passage of time meant that reports of abuse from earlier decades were unlikely.\n\nMany popular culture representations have been made of the sex abuse of children cases. Some are first person like \"Sex crimes and the Vatican\" (2006) is a documentary film by Colm O'Gorman, who was raped by a Catholic priest in the diocese of Ferns in County Wexford in Ireland when he was 14 years old.\n\nA number of books have been written about the abuse suffered from priests and nuns, including Andrew Madden's \"Altar Boy: A Story of Life After Abuse\", Carolyn Lehman's \"Strong at the Heart: How it Feels to Heal from Sexual Abuse\", Larry Kelly's \"The Pigeon House\" which deals with abuse in the Pigeon House TB Sanatorium at Ringsend, and Kathy O'Beirne's bestseller \"Kathy's Story\" which details physical and sexual abuse suffered in a Magdalene laundry in Ireland. Writing in the \"Daily Telegraph\", Ed West has asserted that Kathy Beirne's story is \"largely invented\" according to \"Kathy's Real Story\", a book by Hermann Kelly, a Derry born journalist on the \"Irish Daily Mail\" and former editor of \"The Irish Catholic\".\n\nThe Magdalene laundries caught the public's attention in the late 1990s as claims of widespread abuse from some former inmates gathered momentum and were made the subject a controversial film called \"The Magdalene Sisters\" (2002). In 2006, a documentary called \"Deliver Us From Evil\" was made about sexual abuse and primarily focused on one priest and his crimes; it also showed the lengths that some clergy would go to in order to cover up the many reports of sexual abuse.\n\nSeveral other films have been made about sex abuse within the Church, including:\n\nA daily updated list of films and documentaries is available at the \"Literature List Clergy Sexual Abuse\" composed by journalist and author .\n\nIn 2005, Limp Bizkit released the album \"The Unquestionable Truth (Part 1)\", which focuses on dark lyrical subject matter, including Catholic sex abuse cases, terrorism and fame. Comedian Tim Minchin has the songs \"The Pope Song\", and \"Come Home (Cardinal Pell)\".\n\n\nAnti-abuse:\n\n\n\n\nUnited States Conference of Catholic Bishops\n"}
{"id": "31912272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31912272", "title": "Council for Christian Education in Schools", "text": "Council for Christian Education in Schools\n\nThe Council for Christian Education in Schools is an Australian religious organisation which also operates under the name of Access Ministries, as an inter-denominational body providing Christian education and chaplaincy services in state schools in Victoria.\n\nIts stated mission is the, \"transforming [of] lives of young people and their communities\".\n\nReligious instruction was an important component of the curriculum of the first school in Melbourne, established in July 1840. Over the next 80 years, forms of religious education for Victorian children were debated. The Joint Council for Religious Instruction in State Schools (the fore-runner of the Council for Christian Education in Schools) was established in 1920.\n\nAccess Ministries is supported by 11 Christian denominations: the Anglican Church of Australia; Australian Christian Churches (Assemblies of God in Australia); the Baptist Union of Victoria; Christian Brethren Fellowships in Victoria; Christian Reformed Churches of Australia; CRC Churches International; Churches of Christ in Australia; the Lutheran Church of Australia; the Presbyterian Church of Australia; the Salvation Army; and the Wesleyan Methodist Church of Australia.\nThe work of Access Ministries is overseen by eight board members. The CEO of the organisation is Canon Dr Evonne Paddison, who was appointed in 2006.\n\nAccess Ministries received almost $20 million in government funding between 2009 and 2012. They recorded a combined loss of $984,498 for those four years, according to documents lodged with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. Access Ministries has said that it expects to make a small surplus in 2013.\n\nThe organisation established the Access Ministries Training Institute for religious vocational training and higher education. Victorian education minister, Martin Dixon, attended the launch of the training institute.\n\nAccess Ministries is the largest provider of special religious instruction (SRI) in Victoria, and is authorised to provide it under the regulations of the Victorian Education Act. In 2011, SRI was provided to 130,100 Victorian school children in 940 schools, with the number dropping to 92,808 children in 666 schools by 2013. Access Ministries, however, claim that the figure of 666 is due to incorrect census reporting, and that in 2013, they actually provided SRI to 780 schools. The fall in attendance is largely attributed to department of education rules in August 2011, changing SRI classes from opt-out to opt-in following complaints from parents and activist groups.\n\nFollowing the complaints in September 2011, the Uniting Church declined to vote on a proposal to continue supporting Access Ministries.\n\nAccess Ministries provides chaplains for the National School Chaplaincy Program. All chaplains are required to have a bachelor's degree in theology or ministry, education, counselling or pastoral care, coupled with tertiary qualifications or experience in the other applicable areas.\n\nDavid Hastie, director of Cambridge International Courses at Presbyterian Ladies' College, Sydney, has said that while there has been a campaign against the services provided by Access Ministries, claims there has been a rise in enrolments in religious schools, along with strong support for SRI and school chaplaincy programs.\n\nHowever, in recent years there has been less support for SRI. In 2011 nine hundred and forty government schools offered SRI and by 2013 this had dropped to six hundred and sixty six schools. Which is a change of approximately thirty seven thousand students. In term three of 2014 after a new Ministerial Directive clarified SRI for parents a further fifty schools dropped SRI.\n\nTim Costello, who taught religious education in a Victorian state school and supports faith-based religious education in public schools, has said in relation to Access Ministries, \"if the vehicle is wrong, we can amend that rather than throwing the baby out with the bath water\".\n\nComplaints have been made that Access Ministries provides inadequate training to its volunteers. Volunteers pay Access Ministries $15 for six hours of training in order to qualify to teach SRI to children, compared to the three to four year degree required for teachers. Dr Marion Maddox, a member of the Uniting Church, professor at Macquarie University and expert on religious issues, has criticised Access Ministries volunteers for being under qualified.\n\nAccess Ministries have been accused of proselytising in public schools on several occasions, and for presenting Christian's beliefs as facts, both of which are forbidden under government regulations. In May 2011, complaints were made after the CEO of Access Ministries stated that, \"our federal and state governments allow us to take the Christian faith into our schools and share it. We need to go and make disciples\". Access Ministries subsequently was questioned by Peter Garrett, then Minister for Education. Access Ministries responded by stating that after inviting all principals to notify Access of any concerns, that no school principal indicated any concern with their Access Ministries chaplain acting inappropriately. Mr Garrett wrote to Access Ministries saying he was satisfied with their response and that he had asked his department to take no further action on this matter. Gary Bouma, an Anglican priest and professor of sociology at Monash University has criticised Access Ministries' SRI curriculum for being biased, describing it as \"just appalling\". Dr Marion Maddox and former justice of the High Court of Australia Michael Kirby have also accused Access Ministries of presenting their beliefs in a biased manner.\n\nAfter an Anglican chaplain accused Access Ministries of bias, the Anglican Archbishop of Melbourne, Philip Freier, came to their defence, stating he believes that in the vast majority of cases Christian religious education teachers give their time to teach, not to proselytise.\n\nThere has been opposition to the content and activities provided by Access Ministries. They have been criticised for teaching children unscientific creationist songs, providing children with material claiming girls who wear revealing clothes are inviting sexual assault, that homosexuality, masturbation and sex before marriage are sinful, and that anyone having homosexual feelings should seek counselling. Access Ministries were also criticized for a comic book which was said to imply that teachers were either too lazy or callous to help children unless God intervenes. Access removed the comic from their website after it was criticised by teachers, the Australian Childhood Foundation and Victorian education minister, Martin Dixon.\n"}
{"id": "2532528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2532528", "title": "Curse of Ham", "text": "Curse of Ham\n\nThe Curse of Ham is the curse upon Canaan, Ham's son, that was imposed by the biblical patriarch Noah. The curse occurs in the Book of Genesis and concerns Noah's drunkenness and the accompanying shameful act perpetrated by his son Ham, the father of Canaan (). The controversies raised by this story regarding the nature of Ham's transgression, and the question of why Noah cursed Canaan when Ham had sinned, have been debated for over 2,000 years.\n\nThe story's original purpose may have been to justify the subjection of the Canaanite people to the Israelites, but in later centuries, the narrative was interpreted by some Christians, Muslims and Jews as an explanation for black skin, as well as slavery. Nevertheless, most Christians, Muslims and Jews now disagree with such interpretation, because in the biblical text, Ham himself is not cursed, and race or skin color is never mentioned.\n\nFor a period of its history the Latter Day Saint movement used the curse of Ham to prevent black men from getting the priesthood.\n\nThe concept of the Curse of Ham finds its origins in Genesis 9:\n<poem>\n20 And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:\n21 And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent.\n22 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.\n23 And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness.\n24 And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him.\n25 And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.\n26 And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.\n27 God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.\n\nThe objective of the story may have been to justify the subject status of the Canaanites, the descendants of Ham, to the Israelites, the descendants of Shem. The narrative of the curse is replete with difficulties: It is uncertain what the precise nature of Ham's offense is. Verse 22 has been a subject of debate, as to whether it should be taken literally, or as \"a euphemism for some act of gross immorality\". In verse 25, Noah names Shem and Japheth as the \"brethren\" (the New Living Translation reads \"relatives\") of Canaan, seven verses after indicating that they were Canaan's uncles. The Table of Nations presents Canaan and Mizraim (Egypt) among the sons of Ham (10:6). In the Psalms, Egypt is equated with Ham. The treatment of Japheth in verses 26–27 raises questions: Why is YHWH named as the God of Shem, but not of Japheth? What does it mean that God will \"enlarge\" Japheth? And why will Japheth \"dwell in the tents of Shem\"? Further difficulties include Ham's being referred to as \"the youngest son\", when all other lists make him Noah's second son. Per Sarna, the biggest challenge of the narrative is why Canaan was cursed, rather than Ham, and the concealed details of the shameful incident bear the same reticence of Reuben's sexual transgression.\n\nThe narrative's short five verses indicate that Canaan's Hamite paternity must have had great significance to the narrator or redactor, according to Sarna, who adds, \"The curse on Canaan, invoked in response to an act of moral depravity, is the first intimation of the theme of the corruption of the Canaanites, which is given as the justification for their being dispossessed of their land and for the transfer of that land to the descendants of Abraham.\"\n\nThe majority of commentators, both ancient and modern, have felt that Ham's seeing his father naked was not a sufficiently serious crime to explain the punishment that follows. Nevertheless, Genesis 9:23, in which Shem and Japheth cover Noah with a cloak while averting their eyes, suggests that the words are to be taken literally, and it has recently been pointed out that, in 1st millennium Babylonia, looking at another person's genitals was indeed regarded as a serious matter.\n\nOther ancient commentators suggested that Ham was guilty of more than what the Bible says. The \"Targum Onqelos\" has Ham gossiping about his father's drunken disgrace \"in the street\" (a reading which has a basis in the original Hebrew), so that being held up to public mockery was what had angered Noah; as the \"Cave of Treasures\" (4th century) puts it, \"Ham laughed at his father's shame and did not cover it, but laughed about it and mocked.\"\n\nAncient commentaries have also debated whether \"seeing\" someone's nakedness meant to have sex with that person (e.g. Leviticus 20:17). The same idea was raised by 3rd-century rabbis, in the \"Babylonian Talmud\" (c. 500 AD), who argue that Ham either castrated his father, or sodomised him. The same explanations are found in three Greek translations of the Bible, which replace the word \"see\" in verse 22 with another word denoting homosexual relations. The castration theory has its modern counterpart in suggested parallels found in the castration of Uranus by Cronus in Greek mythology and a Hittite myth of the supreme god Anu whose genitals were \"bitten off by his rebel son and cup-bearer Kumarbi, who afterwards rejoiced and laughed ... until Anu cursed him\".\n\nIn the Book of Jubilees, the seriousness of Ham's curse is compounded by the significance of God's covenant to \"never again bring a flood on the earth\". In response to this covenant, Noah builds a sacrificial altar \"to atone for the land\". Noah’s practice and ceremonial functions parallel the festival of Shavuot as if it were a prototype to the celebration of the giving of the Torah. His \"priestly\" functions also emulate being \"first priest\" in accordance with halakhah as taught in the Qumranic works. By turning the drinking of the wine into a religious ceremony, \"Jubilees\" alleviates any misgivings that may be provoked by the episode of Noah's drunkenness. Thus, Ham's offense would constitute an act of disrespect not only to his father, but also to the festival ordinances.\n\nThe medieval commentary of Rashi (Rabbi Shlomo Yitzchaki 1040–1105), who cites older sources from Judaism's Oral Torah, which is relied upon by traditional Judaic scholarship as the most basic commentary to the present time, provides an introductory explanation. (:\n\n\nIt is noteworthy that the curse was made by Noah, not by God. Some biblical scholars claim that when a curse is made by a man, it could only have been effective if God supports it, unlike the curse of Ham and his descendants, which was not confirmed by God or, at least, it is not mentioned in the Bible that he had confirmed it.\n\n4Q252, a \"pesher\" (interpretation) on the Book of Genesis found among the Dead Sea Scrolls, explains that since Ham had already been blessed by God (Genesis 9:1), he could not now be cursed by Noah. The 4Q252 scroll probably dates from the latter half of the first century BC. A century later, the Jewish historian Josephus argued that Noah refrained from cursing Ham because of his nearness of kin, and so cursed Ham's son instead.\n\nA new alternative interpretation of 4Q181, which is a Dead Sea scroll of Genesis, parallels the Book of Jubilees, suggesting that Canaan was cursed because he defied Noah’s division of the land.\n\nThe Book of Jubilees also recounts the incident between Ham and Noah, and Noah's resulting curse against Canaan, in similar terms. Later, however, \"Jubilees\" explains further that Noah had allocated Canaan a land west of the Nile along with his brothers, but that he violated this agreement and instead chose to squat in the land delineated to Shem (and later Abraham), and so rightly deserved the curse of slavery.\n\nPhilo of Alexandria, a 1st-century BC Jewish philosopher, said that Ham and Canaan were equally guilty, if not of whatever had been done to Noah, then of other crimes, \"for the two of them together had acted foolishly and wrongly and committed other sins.\" Rabbi Eleazar decided that Canaan had in fact been the first to see Noah, and had then gone and told his father, who then told his brothers in the street; this, said Eleazar, \"did not take to mind the commandment to honour one's father.\" Another interpretation was that Noah's \"youngest son\" could not be Ham, who was the middle son: \"for this reason they say that this youngest son was in fact Canaan.\"\n\nIn the past, some people have claimed the \"curse of Ham\" as a biblical justification for imposing slavery or racism on black people, although this concept is essentially an ideologically driven misconception. Regarding this matter, the Christian leader Martin Luther King Jr. called such attempt \"a blasphemy\" that \"is against everything that the Christian religion stands for.\"\n\nNonetheless, elite intellectuals were \"successful\" in establishing the Hamitic misconception as a valid justification for slavery and racism within a wide sphere of public thought. For Southern slave owners faced with the abolitionist movement to end slavery, the Curse of Ham was among the only grounds upon which Christian slave owners could formulate an ideological defense of slavery. Even before slavery, in order to promote economic motivations within Europe associated with colonialism, the Curse of Ham was used to shift the common Aristotelian belief that phenotypic differentiation among humans was a result of climatic difference, to a racialist perspective that phenotypic differentiation among the species was due to there being different racial types. This latter effort started in England.  Englishmen were widely afraid to further the colonial efforts of The Crown and begin a new life in lower latitude colonies for fear of becoming black. In 1578, George Best, a sea captain who was a member of the Elizabethan court, first popularized the myth of racial differences within what would be a widely read book on the search for a Northwest passage to Asia. Best uses careful ethnographic descriptions to portray the indigenous peoples of the North West as being sophisticated hunters and gatherers, not different in spirit than the white Englishmen, at the same time he presents a scathing account of Africans, saying of them that they are a \"black and loathsome\" people on account of being descendants of the “cursed chus\". Interestingly, Best doesn’t mention the curse as lying upon Ham, but rather Chus.  The fact is is that there is no indication in Genesis proper to justify racism and slavery, but the vagueness of Genesis 9-11 coupled with a damning curse from an important biblical patriarch could be used as propaganda to influence popular belief by cunning intellectuals trying to further particular agendas. The historian David Whiteford writes of a “curse matrix” being derived from the vagueness of genesis 9 such that it didn’t matter who was cursed or what people they were suppose to have been the originators of, all that mattered was that there was a vague reference to a generational curse that could be exploited any which way by agenda-driven intellectuals like George Best.\n\nPro-slavery intellectuals were hard pressed to find any justification for slavery and racism within Christian theology which taught that all humans were descendants of Adam and therefore one race, possessed of equal salvation potential and deserving of being treated as kin. The Curse of Ham was used to drive a wedge in the mythology of a single human race, as elite intellectuals were able to convince people that the three sons of Noah represented the three sects of Man and their respective hierarchy of different fates. Leading intellectuals in the south, like Benjamin M. Palmer, claimed that White Europeans were decedent from Japhet who was prophesied by Noah to cultivate civilization and the powers of the intellect, while Africans, being descendants of the cursed Ham, were destined to be possessed by a slavish nature ruled by base appetites. The Curse of Ham, as construed by agenda driven, pro-slavery intellectuals like Palmer, gave a biblical depth to the justification of slavery that couldn't be found anywhere else within the Christian Framework. Palmer cited the Germanic philosophical position put forth by thinkers like Friedrich Von Schlegel, that there are different \"historic peoples,\" with different roles to play in the unfolding of history. These philosophies gave the common pro-slaver their only sense of profound justification for their behavior. As Palmer liked to preach, the southern slave owners were just continuing the pattern set forth by the great biblical patriarch Noah. Palmer taught that slave owners should appraise their own actions for that they were planters of the land as was Noah, and that the enslavement of the Africans was making good upon the great patriarch’s righteous curse. Pro-Slavers could make connections between the ancient rabbinical tradition that interpreted the mysterious wrong doings of Ham as being sexually deviant in nature with their own racialized, hyper-sexualized conception of Africans. Thus southern slave owners could convince themselves of a perverse natural order that set them at the top. The Curse of Ham itself gives no any grounds for such gross misuse, and misinterpretation, as the majority of Christian Theologians have always argued, yet agenda-driven intellectuals found ways to exploit the vagueness and mystery of Genesis 9-11 to further their own ends.\n\nWhile Genesis 9 never says that Ham was black, he became associated with black skin, through folk etymology deriving his name from a similar, but actually unconnected, word meaning \"dark\" or \"brown\". The next stage are certain fables according to ancient Jewish traditions. According to one legend preserved in the Babylonian Talmud, God cursed Ham because he broke a prohibition on sex aboard the ark and \"was smitten in his skin\"; according to another, Noah cursed him because he castrated his father. Although the Talmud refers only to Ham, the version brought in a midrash goes on further to say \"Ham, that Cush came from him\" in reference to the blackness, that the curse did not apply to all of Ham but only to his eldest son Cush, Cush being a sub-Saharan African. Thus, two distinct traditions existed, one explaining dark skin as the result of a curse on Ham, the other explaining slavery by the separate curse on Canaan.\n\nThe concepts were introduced into Islam during the Arab expansion of the 7th century, due to cross-pollination of Jewish and Christian parables and theology into Islam, called \"Isra'iliyyat\". Some medieval Muslim writers—including Muhammad ibn Jarir al-Tabari, Ibn Khaldun, and even the later \"Book of the Zanj\"—asserted the view that the effects of Noah's curse on Ham's descendants included blackness, slavery, and a requirement not to let the hair grow past the ears, despite the fact that this contradicted the teachings of the Islamic prophet Muhammad regarding skin color and racial equality, most notably in his last sermon. This is also in spite of the fact that the account of the drunkenness of Noah and curse of Ham are not present within the text of the Qur'an, the Islamic holy book, and not consistent with Islamic teachings that Noah is a prophet, and prophets do not drink alcohol. Islam holds prophets of God in very high esteem, and some Muslims suggest the prophets are infallible.\n\nAn independent interpretation of the curse being imposed on all of the descendants of Ham persisted in Judaism, especially since the other children of Ham were situated in the African continent; i.e., Mizraim fathered the Egyptians, Cush the Cushites, and Phut the Libyans.\n\nIn medieval Christian exegesis, Ham's sin was regarded as laughter (for mocking his father and doing nothing to rectify his condition).\n\nElsewhere in Medieval Europe, the \"Curse of Ham\" also became used as a justification for serfdom. Honorius Augustodunensis (c. 1100) was the first recorded to propose a caste system associating Ham with serfdom, writing that serfs were descended from Ham, nobles from Japheth, and free men from Shem. However, he also followed the interpretation of 1 Corinthians 7:21 by Ambrosiaster (late 4th century), which held that as servants in the temporal world, these \"Hamites\" were likely to receive a far greater reward in the next world than would the Japhetic nobility.\n\nThe idea that serfs were the descendants of Ham soon became widely promoted in Europe. An example is Dame Juliana Berners (c. 1388), who, in a treatise on hawks, claimed that the \"churlish\" descendants of Ham had settled in Europe, those of the temperate Shem in Africa, and those of the noble Japheth in Asia (a departure from normal arrangements, which placed Shem in Asia, Japheth in Europe, and Ham in Africa), because she considered Europe to be the \"country of churls\", Asia of gentility, and Africa of temperance. As serfdom waned in the late medieval era, the interpretation of serfs being descendants of Ham decreased as well.\n\nHam also figured in an immensely influential work \"Commentaria super opera diversorum auctorum de antiquitatibus\" (\"Commentaries on the Works of Various Authors Discussing Antiquity\"). In 1498, Annius of Viterbo claimed to have translated records of Berossus, an ancient Babylonian priest and scholar; which are today usually considered an elaborate forgery. However, they gained great influence over Renaissance ways of thinking about population and migration, filling a historical gap following the biblical account of the flood. According to this account, Ham studied the evil arts that had been practiced before the flood, and thus became known as \"Cam Esenus\" (Ham the Licentious), as well as the original Zoroaster and Saturn (Cronus). He became jealous of Noah's additional children born after the deluge, and began to view his father with enmity, and one day, when Noah lay drunk and naked in his tent, Ham saw him and sang a mocking incantation that rendered Noah temporarily sterile, as if castrated. This account contains several other parallels connecting Ham with Greek myths of the castration of Uranus by Cronus, as well as Italian legends of Saturn and/or Camesis ruling over the Golden Age and fighting the Titanomachy. Ham in this version also abandoned his wife who had been aboard the ark and had mothered the African peoples, and instead married his sister Rhea, daughter of Noah, producing a race of giants in Sicily.\n\nThe explanation that black Africans, as the \"sons of Ham\", were cursed, possibly \"blackened\" by their sins, was advanced only sporadically during the Middle Ages, but it became increasingly common during the slave trade of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. The justification of slavery itself through the sins of Ham was well suited to the ideological interests of the elite; with the emergence of the slave trade, its racialized version justified the exploitation of African labour.\n\nIn the parts of Africa where Christianity flourished in the early days, while it was still illegal in Rome, this idea never took hold, and its interpretation of scripture was never adopted by the African Coptic Churches. A modern Amharic commentary on Genesis notes the nineteenth century and earlier European theory that blacks were subject to whites as a result of the \"curse of Ham\", but calls this a false teaching unsupported by the text of the Bible, emphatically pointing out that Noah's curse fell not upon all descendants of Ham, but only on the descendants of Canaan, and asserting that it was fulfilled when Canaan was occupied by both Semites (Israel) and Japhetites. The commentary further notes that Canaanites ceased to exist politically after the Third Punic War (149 BC), and that their current descendants are thus unknown and scattered among all peoples.\n\nRobert Boyle—a seventeenth-century scientist who also was a theologian and a devout Christian—refuted the idea that blackness was a Curse of Ham, in his book \"Experiments and Considerations Touching Colours\" (1664). There, Boyle explains that the Curse of Ham used as an explanation of the complexion of coloured people was but a misinterpretation embraced by \"vulgar writers\", travelers, critics, and also \"men of note\" of his time. In his work, he challenges that vision, explaining:\n\nA number of other scholars also support the claim that the racialized version of the Curse of Ham was devised at that time because it suited ideological and economical interests of the European elite and slave traders who wanted to justify exploitation of African labour. While Robinson (2007) claims that such version was non-existent before, historian David Brion Davis argues, as well, that contrary to the claims of many reputable historians, neither the Talmud nor any early post-biblical Jewish writing relates blackness of the skin to a curse whatsoever.\n\nIn 1835, Joseph Smith, the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, produced a work called the Book of Abraham. It explicitly denotes that an Egyptian king by the name of Pharaoh was a descendant of Ham and the Canaanites, who were black,() that Noah had cursed his lineage so they did not have the right to the priesthood, and that all Egyptians descended from him. It was later considered scripture by the LDS Church. This passage is the only one found in any Mormon scripture that bars a particular lineage of people from holding the priesthood, and, while nothing in the Book of Abraham explicitly denotes Noah's curse was the same curse mentioned in the Bible or that the Egyptians were related to other black Africans, it later became the foundation of church policy in regards to the priesthood ban. The 2002 \"Doctrine and Covenants Student Manual\" points to Abraham 1:21–27 as the reasoning behind the not giving black people the priesthood until 1978.\n\nIn the following year, Smith taught that the Curse of Ham came from God, and that blacks were cursed with servitude. He warned those who tried to interfere with slavery that God could do his own work. Without reversing his opinion on the Curse of Ham, Smith started expressing more anti-slavery positions starting in 1842. After Smith's death, leaders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) continued to teach that black Africans were under the curse of Ham and that those who tried to abolish slavery were going against the decrees of God, although the day would come when the curse would be nullified through the saving powers of Jesus Christ. In addition, based on his interpretation of the Book of Abraham, Brigham Young believed that, as a result of this curse, negroes were banned from the Mormon priesthood. \n\nIn 1978, LDS Church president Spencer W. Kimball said he received a revelation that extended the priesthood to all worthy male members of the church without regard to race or color. In 2013, The LDS church denounced the curse of Ham explanation for withholding the priesthood from black Africans. However, the essays have not been well publicized, and many members remain unaware of the essays and hold to racist beliefs that had been taught in the past. The Book of Abraham is still considered scripture in the LDS church. The Old Testament student manual, which is published by the Church and is the manual currently used to teach the Old Testament in LDS Institutes, teaches that Canaan could not hold the priesthood because of his ancestral lineage but mentions nothing of race or skin color:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9035448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9035448", "title": "Daji", "text": "Daji\n\nDaji (), was the favorite consort of King Zhou of Shang, the last king of the Shang dynasty in ancient China. She is portrayed as a malevolent fox spirit in legends as well as novels. Her identification as a fox spirit seems to have originated from at least the Tang dynasty. These accounts have been popularized in works such as the \"Wu Wang Fa Zhou Pinghua\" (武王伐紂平話), the \"Fengshen Yanyi\", and the \"Lieguo Zhi\". She is considered a classic example of how a beauty causes the downfall of a dynasty in Chinese culture.\n\nIn the Song dynasty, fox spirit cults, including those dedicated to Daji, became outlawed, but their suppression was unsuccessful. For example, in 1111, an imperial edict was issued for the destruction of many spirit shrines within Kaifeng, including those of Daji.\n\nDaji was from a noble family called Su (蘇) from the state of Yousu (有蘇). Hence, she is also known as Su Daji. In 1047 BC, King Zhou of Shang invaded Yousu and took Daji as his prize. In \"Feng Shen Yan Yi\", she was a daughter of Su Hu (蘇護); in the early chapters, she was killed by a thousand-year-old vixen spirit who possessed her body before becoming a concubine of King Zhou.\n\nKing Zhou became extremely infatuated with Daji and started to neglect state affairs in order to keep her company. He used any means necessary to ingratiate himself with her and to please her. Daji liked animals so he built her a zoological Xanadu with several rare species of birds and animals. He also ordered artists to compose lewd music and choreograph bawdy dances to satisfy her musical taste. He gathered 3000 guests at one party to indulge in his \"pond of alcohol\" and \"forest of meat\". He allowed the guests to play a cat and mouse game nude in the forest to amuse Daji. When one of King Zhou's concubines, the daughter of Lord Jiu, protested, King Zhou had her executed. Her father was ground in pieces and his flesh fed to King Zhou's vassals.\n\nDaji's greatest joy was to hear people cry in physical torment. Once, she saw a farmer walking barefoot on ice and ordered his feet cut off so she could study them and figure out why they were so resistant to low temperatures. On another occasion, she had a pregnant woman's belly cut open so it satisfied her curiosity to find out what happened inside. To verify an ancient saying that \"a good man's heart has seven apertures\", she even had the heart of the minister Bi Gan (King Zhou's uncle) dug out and subjected to her scrutiny.\n\nDaji was best known for her invention of a method of torture known as \"Paolao\" (炮烙). A bronze cylinder covered with oil was heated like a furnace with charcoal beneath until its sides became extremely hot. The victim was made to walk on top of the slowly heating cylinder and he was forced to shift his feet to avoid the burning. The oily surface made it difficult for the victim to maintain his position and balance. If the victim fell into the charcoal below, he would be burnt to death. The victim was forced to dance and scream in agony before dying while the observing King Zhou and Daji would laugh in delight.\n\nDaji was executed on the orders of King Wu of Zhou after the fall of the Shang dynasty on the advice of Jiang Ziya.\n\nDaji is featured in the Chinese novel \"Fengshen Yanyi\" as a major antagonist. She was the first featured corrupter of the declining Shang dynasty in the novel. Her father Su Hu gave her to King Zhou of Shang as an appeasement offer after armed conflict broke out between Su's and Shang military forces.\n\nOne night before Daji was sent to the capital city of Zhaoge, she was possessed by an evil nine-tailed fox spirit (aka Thousand-Year-Old Vixen). When Daji arrived in Zhaoge, she became the center of attention of King Zhou and caused the king to be extremely obsessed with her. King Zhou neglected state affairs to keep her company and ignored the advice of his subjects. Yunzhongzi was the first man to act against Daji by giving the king a magical peach-wood sword which would make Daji ill and kill her eventually. She rose above the ranks from a minor concubine to become the queen based on the king's favoritism towards her.\n\nDaji was blamed for the fall of the Shang dynasty by corrupting King Zhou and causing him to neglect state affairs and rule with tyranny and despotism. This ultimately led to the dynasty's decline and widespread chaos. King Zhou's tyranny incurred the anger and resentment of the common people, who eventually rose up in revolt against him under King Wu of Zhou's leadership. After the fall of the Shang dynasty, Daji was exorcised by Jiang Ziya (aka Jiang Taigong) and died eventually.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36395453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36395453", "title": "De Clementia", "text": "De Clementia\n\nDe Clementia (frequently translated as \"On Mercy\" in English) is a two volume (incomplete) hortatory essay written in 55–56 CE by Seneca the Younger, a Roman Stoic philosopher, to the emperor Nero in the first five years of his reign.\n\nThe work was written after Nero had become emperor and clearly dates from an early part of Nero's reign. From Seneca's remarks, it would appear that it was written after Nero had turned eighteen, which would place it after the murder of his rival Brittanicus in 55 AD. It may therefore been written partly as an \"apology\", perhaps as a means of assuring the Roman nobility that the murder would be the end, not the beginning of bloodshed.\n\nThe work survives in a fragmentary state. Of an original three books, only the first and the beginning of the second survive.\n\nSeneca's \"De Clementia\" is an instructional contrast between the good ruler and the tyrant, and an evaluation of the relationship between ruler and subject. A survey of history is made in the first volume to select different rulers to point out as examples, including Dionysius of Syracuse and Sulla being used as cautionary tales and young Augustus as the exemplar. An extended illustration of Augustus showing mercy to the rebellious Cinna alongside an example from Nero's own life is meant to encourage the aspiring emperor to likewise show clemency.\n\nWhile the first volume is accommodated to popular understanding the second book touches on stoic paradoxes and scholastic details. In general, the two books are not overly concerned with historical accuracy.\n\nWithin his essay, Seneca does not discuss the constitutional legitimacy of the principate, but rather deals with the problem of having a good sovereign. The only real power, in his view, was power which was guided by the Stoic conception of \"logos\" (universal reason). Thus, clemency, not pity or unmotivated generosity, is the reasonable approach which guarantees the consent and devotion of the emperor's subjects and provides the state's security.\n\n\"De Clementia\" is a rare survival of a Roman work dedicated to political advice. It is particularly unusual in its discussion of mercy, as later panegyrics tend to emphasise imperial piety and majesty.\n\nThe text has come down to us together with \"De Beneficiis\" in one of the earliest surviving Senecan manuscripts, as part of the 8th century \"Codex Nazarianus\" (Vat. Pal. 1547). In the 12th century copies of \"De Clementia\" were circulating Europe nearly always attached to \"De Beneficiis\", and in this form it reached the Renaissance. Although always regarded as a minor work of Seneca's, it received one significant appraisal in 1532 when John Calvin published his commentary on it.\n\nShortly after finishing his legal studies, a young John Calvin wrote his first book, a commentary on \"De Clementia.\" The commentary consists mostly of philological notes and context with other Latin writers interspersed with notes on Seneca's style and ideas. There have been three suggested reasons for this. First, Erasmus wrote the preface to his 1529 translation of Seneca that he welcomed editorial comments by young scholars. In taking up this invitation, some believe Calvin was attempting to establish his reputation as a humanist among the intellectual elite. Second, because there was a general revival of Stoicism in Renaissance times, it may have been simply because Calvin wanted more popularity for Seneca, who his successor in Geneva, Theodore Beza, mentions as \"a great favorite for him\" because he was \"obviously in accord with Calvin.\" The third possibility, generally rejected by scholars, is that he was writing to the French King Francis I. The lack of a dedication to him, mention of him, and gross error that would have been made comparing Francis with Nero all lead to the theory's disuse.\n\nIn writing his \"Commentary\", Calvin made use of the texts of two \"ancient pillars,\" Cicero and Seneca, and two \"modern pillars,\" Erasmus and Budaeus. Ford Lewis Battles argues there is a third \"modern pillar,\" Philipus Beroaldus the Elder. When quoting from sources, he is less versed in Greek literature than in Latin. It is worth noting that Calvin's brief biographical sketch of Seneca at the outset is taken almost entirely from Tacitus, while ignoring the less noble picture from Dio Cassius.\n\nFundamentally, Calvin at this point in his career is acting as a humanist and not a Protestant reformer. Calvin and Seneca agree that all men are sinners and sin needs to be punished, and both are committed to a deterministic theism. However, it becomes clear that Calvin had not intended to pass Stoic elements into Protestant theology, and in fact Calvin attacks the Stoic creed more often than he approves it. Beyond theological critique, Calvin also reproves Seneca's style as too luxuriant, and remarks, \"I also miss the orderly arrangement of matter, which is certainly not the least quality of a good style.\" We can already begin to see the anticipation of Calvin's full development in his writing method and can expect the transformation of Calvin's classical learning and the seriousness of the Stoic ethic into Christian faith.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54139045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54139045", "title": "Diocese of Aragatsotn", "text": "Diocese of Aragatsotn\n\nDiocese of Aragatsotn ( \"Aragatsotni t'em\"), is a diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church covering the Aragatsotn Province of Armenia. The name is derived from the historic Aragatsotn canton of Ayrarat province of Kingdom of Armenia. \n\nThe diocese was officially founded on May 30, 1996, by Catholicos Karekin I. The diocesan headquarters are located in the provincial capital Ashtarak, while the cathedral of the diocese is the Saint Mesrop Mashtots Cathedral in the nearby village of Oshakan. Bishop Mkrtich Broshyan is currently the primate of the diocese, serving since 2009.\n\nHistorically, the territory of modern-day Aragatsotn has been regulated by the Araratian Pontifical Diocese and the Diocese of Shirak. The towns of Ashtarak and Aparan along with their villages were under the jurisdiction of the Araratian diocese, while the town of Talin and the surrounding areas were under the jurisdiction of Shirak diocese.\n\nAfter the independence from the Soviet Union, Armenia has been divided into provinces based on the territorial administration reform of 1995. During the following year, the Diocese of Aragatsotn was officially founded upon a \"kontakion\" issued by Catholicos Karekin I on May 30, 1996. The Saint Mesrop Mashtots Cathedral in Oshakan is serving as the seat of the diocese since the formation of the diocese.\n\nCurrently, the Aragatsotn diocese has 29 churches and 9 chapels under its jurisdiction.\n\n\nHere is the list of churches, monasteries and chapels functioning under the jurisdiction of the Diocese of Aragatsotn, along with their location and year of consecration:\n\n\nThis is an incomplete list of inactive or ruined churches and monasteries in the territory regulated by the Diocese of Aragatsotn:\n\n"}
{"id": "1097788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1097788", "title": "Edah", "text": "Edah\n\nEdah was a Modern Orthodox Jewish organization, generally associated with the liberal wing of Orthodox Judaism in the United States and with the Religious Zionism movement of Israel. Its headquarters were located in Manhattan, New York City.\n\nEdah was founded in 1996 in response to what its founding director, Rabbi Saul Berman, called “the separatist trend in Modern Orthodoxy” It promised in its mission statement to “give voice to the ideology and values of modern Orthodoxy and to educate and empower the community to address its concerns.\"\n\nEdah organized conferences, fellowships, and adult education programs, primarily in the New York metropolitan area, and to a lesser extent around the world. It also published the Edah Journal, an academic journal on Modern Orthodoxy and contemporary issues in the religious community.\n\nIn July 2006, Edah announced plans to close down its operations as a stand-alone entity. In a news release, leaders of the organization acknowledged that it had made significant achievements, but given limited financial resources available to the Orthodox community, a tactical decision was made so that its goals would be able to continue through other means.\n\nAfter winding down operations, Rabbi Berman took on an administrative position at Yeshivat Chovevei Torah, a Modern Orthodox rabbinical school in New York City. YCT also assumed Edah’s journal, website, and audio-visual library.\n\nThe Edah Journal was rebranded as \"Meorot: A Forum of Modern Orthodox Discourse\" and its publication continued by YCT.\n\n"}
{"id": "3515675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3515675", "title": "Goindval", "text": "Goindval\n\nGoindwal (), also known as Goindwal Sahib, is located in Taran Taran district in the Majha region of the state of Punjab in India about 23 km from Tarn Taran Sahib. In the 16th century it became an important center for the Sikh religion during the Guruship of the Guru Amar Das. Goindwal is on the banks of the river Beas and is one of the focal points of small scale industries of Tarn Taran district.\n\nGuru Amar Das (the third Guru or the third Nanak) stayed in Goindwal for 33 years where he established a new centre for preaching Sikhism. A \"Baoli\" (stepwell), paved with 84 steps was constructed there. Some devout believe that by reciting Japji Sahib, the divine \"Word\" revealed to Guru Nanak Dev at each of the 84 steps after taking a bath in the Baoli provides Moksha, liberation from 84,00,000 cycles of life of this world and unity with God (mukhti). Goindval is where Guru Amar Das met Guru Ram Das, the next Guru. Guru Arjan Dev was also born there on 15 April 1563. It is called axis of Sikhism as it was the first center of Sikhism.\n\nToday the Gurdwara and Goindwal Baoli is visited as a prime tourist destination and the massive langar or the community kitchen provides food to a large number of visitors every day.\n\nThe location of the town was an ancient eastwest highway that crossed the river Beas connecting Delhi and Lahore and the head of the most important ferries on the river Beas. With the renovation of the highway by Sher Shall Sur, the Afghan ruler of north India (1540–45), this ferry site became an important transit point.\n\nThis led one Goinda or Gonda, a Marvaha Khatri trader, to plan establishing an habitation at the western end of the ferry. Thwarted in his endeavour by natural calamities which Goinda attributed to evil spirits which nobody settled there, Goinda went to Khadur to seek Guru Angad's blessing and asked if anyone of the two Guru's sons of the Guru starts living there, the superstition of the people regarding the evil spirits will vanish and the village will be inhabited.\n\nThe Guru agreed to help Goinda but none of the Guru's sons agreed to this proposal so the Guru asked his devoted disciple, (Guru) Amar Das, to help Goinda. Bhai Amar Das, who knew that tract very well as he had been carrying river water from this place to Khadur daily for his Master`s ablutions, laid the foundation of Goinda's village which then was named after Goinda, Goindwal. The trader Goinda had a special place built in Goindwal to honor Guru Angad Dev.\n\nThe Guru requested Bhai Amar Das to make Goindwal his home. During the night Bhai Amar Das slept in Goindwal and during the day he resumed his duties and carried water from the river Beas to Khadur for Guru Angad’s morning bath. Along the way Bhai Amar Das recited \"Japji Sahib\", the Sikh's morning prayer. Guru Amardas stayed in Khadur to hear the hymn of \"Asa di Var\", a composition of Guru Angad, interspersed with hymns of Nanak. He then returned to Goindwal to fetch more water for the guru’s communal kitchen and carried it back to Khadur where Guru Angad, and his followers resided.\n\nGuru Angad asked his faithful follower, Bhai Amar Das, to oversee the project of building Goindwal. The guru gave Amar Das a staff with instructions that it should be used for the removal of any obstacles. Guru Angad Dev selected Bhai Amar Das as the most faithful of his Sikhs and appointed him to be his successor. Guru Amar Das shifted from Khadur to Goindwal with his family and followers after his anointment as Guru in 1552 at the age of 73. That year Guru Amar Das commenced the digging in Goindwal of a Baoli, i.e. a well with steps descending down to water level which, when completed, attracted pilgrims from far and near.\n\nGoindwal also became in the time of Guru Amar Das the centre of an annual fair on the occasion of Vaisakhi festival which Guru Amar Das started in Goindval. Guru Amar Das also made Langar an integral activity of the Sikh community and he insisted that anyone who wanted to see him had to first partake of food at the Langar creating the proverb 'Pehlay Pangat tay picchhay Sangat' - First sit in the 'Community of Feet', and then join the 'Company of Singers'. Guru Amar Das developed the new system of propagating the new faith in far off places known as the Manji System, stopped the practice of Sati and wrote the Anand Sahib bani at Goindwal. Bhai Gurdas, a prominent Sikh poet, was born in Goindwal in 1551. Guru Arjan came to Goindwal to get the first 4 Guru's hymns from Baba Mohan to compile into the Adi Granth.\n\nAfter Gurgaddi of Guru Amar Das people visited in large crowds for a spiritual glimpse of the third Guru. This angered the jealous Dattu, the younger son of Guru Angad. Dattu come to Goindwal and found the Guru who was surrounded by his disples. In rage he kicked the Guru; the Guru immediately touched his foot and feeling sorry said his foot might have been hurt by his aged bones. This event and the overall dislike that Dattu had for Guru Amar Das was the cause for Guru Amar Das to decide to briefly leave Goindwal. Guru Amar Das shifted himself to his native village Basarke and closeted himself in a secluded place. The guru had written on the outside door that whosoever opens the door will not be his Sikh and he will not be his Guru. However, when the devotees became impatient to have a glimpse of the Guru, Baba Budha, instead of opening the front door, broke open the back wall and enabled the devotees to reach the Guru. The devotees led by Baba Budha requested the Guru come back to Goindwal and then took him there. Gurdwara Sann Sahib commemorates this incident.\n\nAccording to the historians, Emperor Akbar once visited the Guru in Goindwal in 1598 and took lunch in the Langar while he was going from Delhi to Lahore. Akbar was highly impressed by the tradition of Langer that he granted land in the name of Bibi Bhani, the daughter of the Guru. Guru directed his son in law, Guru Ram Das would found Amritsar on that newly granted land.\n\nGuru Ram Das, whose original name before becoming the Guru was Bhai Jetha, arrived at Goindwal to remain in contact with Guru Amar Das who he had seen previously at Khadur. Bhai Jetha started earning his bread by selling cooked beans however he spent most of his time in the service for the construction of the Baoli and in the community kitchen. Guru Amar Das and his wife Mata Mansa Devi recognized Bhai Jetha's upright character and steadfast service and decided to get their daughter, Bibi Bhani married to him, they married on 1 February 1554. The couple stayed in Goindwal to remain in the service of the Guru. They had three sons, Bhai Prithi Chand, Bhai Mahadev, and Bhai Arjun Dev (later known as Guru Arjan Dev). After Guru Amar Das`s successor. Guru Ram Das, had built up Amritsar and made it his permanent seat but devotees still continued to visit Goindval to have a dip in the sacred Baoli and pay homage at other local shrines.\n\nGuru Hargobind with his family travelled from Jhabal to Goindwal. As they reached Goindwal, Guru Hargobind, his family, and his Sikhs made ablutions in the Goindwal Baoli built by Guru Amar Das. Bhai Tegh Bahadur, then barely two, was bathed with the holy water. Ablutions were repeated the following morning before Guru Hargobind left for Kartarpur. The family were left in Goindwal on the persuasion of Baba Sundar, great-grandson of Guru Amar Das. Upon his return to Amritsar, Guru Hargobind recalled the family from Goindwal. Guru Tegh Bahadur also visited Goindwal again in 1664 after first halt during this journey was at Amritsar, followed by halts at Tarn Taran, and Khadur Sahib.\n\nWhen the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan's eldest son Dara Shikoh was seriously ill Guru Har Rai sent a herbal medicine which cured him. Thus Sikh - Mughals relations remained on a good footing for a short time. There was eventual instability in the Delhi royal court when Shah Jehan fell ill and his second son Aurangzeb aligned himself with his youngest brother Murad against their eldest brother Dara Shikoh, Shah Jehan's approved successor. Aurangzeb imprisoned his father in Agra and his soldiers as well as those of his youngest brother Murad forced Dara Shikoh to flee towards Punjab. Guru Har Rai was visiting Goindwal in June 1558 along with 2200 horse riders and here he met Dara Shikoh who had come to receive his blessings. Dara Shikoh remembered that the Guru had been responsible for saving his life when he was sick. Dara Shikoh was both an intellectual and liberally tolerant towards other religions. He was a great admirer of the Muslim Sufi Saint Mian Mir who was in turn a great admirer of the Gurus. Guru Har Rai granted Dara Shikoh an audience and received the prince with due courtesy. After some time Dara Shikoh was eventually captured by the forces of Aurangzeb. Aurangzeb had Dara Shikoh executed, then killed his own youngest brother Murad and appointed himself as the emperor.\n\nThe entrance of Goindwal is decorated with murals describing significant scenes of the Sikh history. The main gurdwara, standing next to the Baoli, white against the chequerboard of the courtyard. The Gurdwara is an example of typical Sikh architecture with a large dome tipped with a gold pinnacle - four cupolas echoing the main dome in shape and the ubiquitous facade of turrets, elliptical cornices and projected windows.\n\nGoindwal Baoli, the well of Goindwal Guru Amar Das had a Baoli, or covered step-well, constructed in Goindwal. The step-well spans about 25 feet or 8 meters. The well has a few resting places between the 84 steps providing the Sikhs a place to get together and have spiritual discussion. An arched access opens to a domed entrance decorated with frescoes depicting the life of Guru Amar Das. A divided underground staircase with 84 covered steps descends beneath the earth to Goindwal's sacred waters. The Baoli is entered through a wide, pointed archway and the structure is surmounted by a large fluted dome. There are projected eaves on all sides, while the front face also has a row of small turrets. The cornice under the dome is multi-coloured with floral designs.\n"}
{"id": "26902355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26902355", "title": "Gurinder Singh Mann", "text": "Gurinder Singh Mann\n\nGurinder Singh Mann is a Punjabi-American historian and professor of Sikh studies, and the author of multiple books on Sikh culture. From 1999, he was a professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara. After coming under fire for alleged sexual harassment in 2013 and retiring from Santa Barbara in 2015, he founded the Global Institute for Sikh Studies in New York City, which he directs.\n\nMann studied for a master's degree in English from Baring Union Christian College in Batala, Punjab, from 1965 to 1971, and then completed a diploma in English Studies at the Central Institute of English and Foreign Languages in Hyderabad, India, in 1975. He earned a second master's degree in English from the University of Kent at Canterbury, England, in 1976. From 1984 to 1987 he studied for Master of Theological Studies at Harvard University. He joined the doctoral program in Religion at Columbia University in 1987, and completed his Ph.D. there in 1993.\n\nMann taught religion at Columbia University from 1988 to 1999 and then held the Kundan Kaur Kapany Chair in Sikh Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara from 1999 until retiring in 2015.\n\nIn 2013, Mann came under investigation by the university for inappropriate \"sexual conduct, both verbal and physical\", with a female student, and for similar complaints from multiple other students. Mann denied the claims, but the university concluded that \"more likely than not\" inappropriate conduct did occur.\n\nMann is the author or editor of:\nAdditionally he has edited special issues of the \"Journal of Punjab Studies\" on 20th-Century Punjabi Literature, Guru Gobind Singh, and W. H. McLeod, as well as \"Brill’s Encyclopedia of Sikhism\", Volume 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "27201238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27201238", "title": "Hadestown", "text": "Hadestown\n\nHadestown is the fourth album by Vermont-based Anaïs Mitchell, and was released by Righteous Babe Records in the U.S. on March 9, 2010. The album, a concept album, follows a variation on the Ancient Greek myth of Orpheus and Eurydice, where Orpheus must embark on a quest to rescue his wife Eurydice from the underworld. It has been advertised as a 'folk opera'. Several of the songs feature singers other than Mitchell, including Justin Vernon (better known as lead vocalist and guitarist of Wisconsin-based band Bon Iver), Ani DiFranco, Greg Brown, and Tanya, Petra and Rachel Haden (referred to in the track listing as 'The Haden Triplets').\n\nThe album features orchestral arrangements by Michael Chorney, who was involved with Anaïs' recordings since Hymns for the Exiled in 2004. The recording itself is based upon a live version of the 'folk opera' which was performed by Mitchell with the collaboration of Mr. Chorney and a theatrical director, Ben T. Matchstick. These performances originally featured a 22-person cast and, after a tour of New England, the songs began to be edited and reworked.\n\nWithin the narrative of the album, the part of Orpheus is played by Vernon, Persephone by DiFranco, Hades by Greg Brown, The Fates by Tanya, Petra and Rachel Haden, Hermes by Ben Knox Miller and Mitchell herself plays Eurydice.\n\nWhile most of the recording was produced by Todd Sickafoose at Brooklyn Recording Studio in New York City, the lead vocals were often produced elsewhere in the U.S..\n\nThe Grammy Award nominated packaging was designed by Brian Grunert, Peter Nevins and Anaïs Mitchell, using the artwork of Peter Nevins.\n\nAs the album begins, \"\"Wedding Song\" describes the courtship of Orpheus (Justin Vernon) and Eurydice (Anaïs Mitchell). Living in a time of economic depression, she asks him how he can possibly afford to marry her and give her a good life, to which he replies that his musicianship will bring them everything they desire. Although she loves Orpheus, Eurydice seems wary and unsure whether he can provide for them. Orpheus then sings of how Hades built his empire in the underworld, using exploitation and trickery to force the residents to do his bidding (\"Epic Part I\"). Hermes (Ben Knox Miller) visits Eurydice and teaches her how to get to Hadestown, telling her it is a world full of prosperity and far away from the poverty she fears. She seems convinced although Orpheus tries to change her mind by making Hadestown out to be full of slavery and unending work. He is drowned out by Persephone (Ani DiFranco), who sings of the coming end of summer when she will be taken back to the underworld to reunite with her husband, and The Fates (The Haden Triplets), who sing of the luck that comes from living in Hadestown. Eurydice begins to question her quality of life and considers journeying down (\"Way Down Hadestown\"\"). In \"Hey, Little Songbird\" Hades himself (Greg Brown) calls to Eurydice and lures her onto a train down to his domain in the underworld.\n\nEurydice apologises for leaving Orpheus, saying that she allowed her gut feelings to overrule her heart. She tries to excuse her decision by telling him that she was gone as soon as she met Hades and nothing could have stopped her from leaving (\"\"Gone, I'm Gone\"). The Fates chastise the listeners for judging her from their life of comfort. They then pay a visit to her and ask her what she is going to do when forced to make another tough decision (\"When the Chips Are Down\"). Orpheus is determined to rescue his love from Hadestown but Hermes warns him that it will be a difficult task to accomplish but gives him advice about how to survive the journey and shows him to the train (\"Wait for Me\"). Meanwhile, Hades reinforces his power over the underworld by manipulating it's residents into believing that, although they must work tirelessly to do Hades' bidding, that the outside world is much worse. Therefore, Hades is able to seem as if he is a benevolent ruler who is, in fact, protecting his people rather than enslaving them (\"Why We Build the Wall\"). \n\nOrpheus travels through Hadestown and comes across a speakeasy run by Persephone. Instead of alcohol, Persephone offers earthly desires (such as rain, wind, stars and sunlight) to her customers. When he enters, Persephone takes a liking to him (\"Our Lady of the Underground\"). In \"Flowers\", Eurydice, who has now become Hades' mistress, realises what a terrible mistake she made being tempted by his wealth and power. She regrets leaving Orpheus, the only man who ever loved her, to live with a cruel tyrant and expresses her wish to being reunited with him. The Fates pay Orpheus a visit and try to persuade him to abandon his quest to rescue Eurydice, telling him there is no chance he will succeed and trying will only bring him pain (\"Nothing Changes\"). Their words trouble him and he begins to wonder if he will ever see his true love again (\"If It's True\").\n\nHades, having discovered that Orpheus is trying to save Eurydice, sympathises with their plight, for he loves his own wife in the same way that Orpheus loves Eurydice. He is afraid that allowing the couple to reunite and leave the underworld would make him look weak and would cause his power over Hadestown come under threat. Persephone, knowing her husband will never give in to his humanity without encouragement, convinces him to be kind and put the love of Orpheus and Eurydice over his own greed (\"How Long?\"). When Orpheus finally reaches Hades, he appeals to him to let Eurydice go. Doing so in front of his wife and subjects forces Hades to grant the request, as refusing would reveal his true heartless nature (\"Epic Part II\"). Hades devises a plan to ensure that he maintains control of the underworld without looking weak by making a deal with Orpheus: the lovers are permitted to leave Hadestown together so long as Eurydice follows Orpheus and he does not turn around (\"His Kiss, the Riot\").\n\nAs they journey back to the surface together, doubt begins to plague Orpheus. The arrogance and confidence that filled him when he began his quest, is lost and replaced with fear because he is unable to see Eurydice and does not know if she is truly following him. As they walk Eurydice tries to reassure him that she loves him but, after her initial betrayal, Orpheus does not believe her and turns (\"Doubt Comes In\"). In the album's closing track, \"I Raise My Cup to Him\"\", Eurydice, doomed to remain in Hadestown forever, finds herself in Persephone's bar where they both lament the loss of love and raise a toast to Orpheus, who was forced to return to the surface alone.\n\nUpon release, \"Hadestown\" gained extremely positive reviews overall. Drowned in Sound awarded the album a rare 10/10, stating that \"Mitchell traverses such a sweeping range of emotions, genres and styles over the course of Hadestown, it’s frankly remarkable that the whole thing works at all. That it works so brilliantly well, that in under an hour it creates a world you’ll want to return to time and time again, that it is a glittering model of the form – of collaboration itself – is nothing short of awe-inspiring.\" The Guardian and NME were similarly effusive in their praise, awarding the album 5/5 and 9/10 respectively. Stereo Subversion's Jonathan Sanders gave the album a perfect score and called it \"a lasting example of where folk music can go when the right musicians take hold of history.\" The album also topped review aggregator website AnyDecentMusic?'s all time chart with an 8.9, the highest rating for any album until Frank Ocean's Channel Orange.\n\n\"Why We Build the Wall\" was later covered by English country folk musician Billy Bragg on his 2018 album Bridges Not Walls.\n\nIn 2017 it was ranked number 63 in Paste magazine's \"The 100 Best Indie Folk Albums\"..\n\nMitchell continued working on an expanded theatrical version of Hadestown, and in May 2016 the show debuted at New York Theatre Workshop, having been developed with and directed by Rachel Chavkin. In November 2017, the show received its Canadian Premiere at The Citadel, Edmonton, and in April 2018 it was announced that Hadestown would open later the same year at London's National Theatre before transferring to Broadway. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5098574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5098574", "title": "Hell", "text": "Hell\n\nIn religion and folklore, Hell is an afterlife location, sometimes a place of torment and punishment. Religions with a linear divine history often depict hells as eternal destinations while religions with a cyclic history often depict a hell as an intermediary period between incarnations. Typically these traditions locate hell in another dimension or under the Earth's surface and often include entrances to Hell from the land of the living. Other afterlife destinations include Heaven, Purgatory, Paradise, and Limbo.\n\nOther traditions, which do not conceive of the afterlife as a place of punishment or reward, merely describe Hell as an abode of the dead, the grave, a neutral place located under the surface of Earth (for example, see Sheol and Hades).\n\nThe modern English word \"hell\" is derived from Old English \"hel\", \"helle\" (first attested around 725 AD to refer to a nether world of the dead) reaching into the Anglo-Saxon pagan period. The word has cognates in all branches of the Germanic languages, including Old Norse \"hel\" (which refers to both a location and goddess-like being in Norse mythology), Old Frisian \"helle\", Old Saxon \"hellia\", Old High German \"hella\", and Gothic \"halja\". All forms ultimately derive from the reconstructed Proto-Germanic feminine noun *\"xaljō\" or *\"haljō\" ('concealed place, the underworld'). In turn, the Proto-Germanic form derives from the o-grade form of the Proto-Indo-European root *\"kel-\", *\"kol\"-: 'to cover, conceal, save'. Indo-European cognates including Latin \"cēlāre\" (\"to hide\", related to the English word \"cellar\") and early Irish \"ceilid\" (\"hides\"). Upon the Christianization of the Germanic peoples, extension of Porto-Germanic *\"xaljō\" were reinterpreted to denote the underworld in Christian mythology, for which see Gehenna.\n\nRelated early Germanic terms and concepts include Proto-Germanic *\"xalja-rūnō(n)\", a feminine compound noun, and *\"xalja-wītjan\", a neutral compound noun. This form is reconstructed from the Latinized Gothic plural noun *\"haliurunnae\" (attested by Jordanes; according to philologist Vladimir Orel, meaning 'witches'), Old English \"helle-rúne\" ('sorceress, necromancer', according to Orel), and Old High German \"helli-rūna\" 'magic'. The compound is composed of two elements: *\"xaljō\" (*\"haljō\") and *\"rūnō\", the Proto-Germanic precursor to Modern English \"rune\". The second element in the Gothic \"haliurunnae\" may however instead be an agent noun from the verb \"rinnan\" (\"to run, go\"), which would make its literal meaning \"one who travels to the netherworld\".\n\nProto-Germanic *\"xalja-wītjan\" (or *\"halja-wītjan\") is reconstructed from Old Norse \"hel-víti\" 'hell', Old English \"helle-wíte\" 'hell-torment, hell', Old Saxon \"helli-wīti\" 'hell', and the Middle High German feminine noun \"helle-wīze\". The compound is a compound of *\"xaljō\" (discussed above) and *\"wītjan\" (reconstructed from forms such as Old English \"witt\" 'right mind, wits', Old Saxon \"gewit\" 'understanding', and Gothic \"un-witi\" 'foolishness, understanding').\n\nHell appears in several mythologies and religions. It is commonly inhabited by demons and the souls of dead people. A fable about Hell which recurs in folklore across several cultures is the allegory of the long spoons. Hell is often depicted in art and literature, perhaps most famously in Dante's \"Divine Comedy\".\n\nPunishment in Hell typically corresponds to sins committed during life. Sometimes these distinctions are specific, with damned souls suffering for each sin committed (see for example Plato's myth of Er or Dante's \"The Divine Comedy\"), but sometimes they are general, with condemned sinners relegated to one or more chamber of Hell or to a level of suffering.\n\nIn many religious cultures, including Christianity and Islam, Hell is often depicted as fiery, painful, and harsh, inflicting suffering on the guilty. Despite these common depictions of Hell as a place of fire, some other traditions portray Hell as cold. Buddhist - and particularly Tibetan Buddhist - descriptions of Hell feature an equal number of hot and cold Hells. Among Christian descriptions Dante's \"Inferno\" portrays the innermost (9th) circle of Hell as a frozen lake of blood and guilt.\nBut cold also played a part in earlier Christian depictions of Hell, beginning with the Apocalypse of Paul, originally from the early third century; the \"Vision of Dryhthelm\" by the Venerable Bede from the seventh century; \"St Patrick's Purgatory\", \"The Vision of Tundale\" or \"Visio Tnugdali\", and the \"Vision of the Monk of Eynsham\", all from the twelfth century;\nand the \"Vision of Thurkill\" from the early thirteenth century.\n\nThe Sumerian afterlife was a dark, dreary cavern located deep below the ground, where inhabitants were believed to continue \"a shadowy version of life on earth\". This bleak domain was known as Kur, and was believed to be ruled by the goddess Ereshkigal. All souls went to the same afterlife, and a person's actions during life had no effect on how the person would be treated in the world to come.\n\nThe souls in Kur were believed to eat nothing but dry dust and family members of the deceased would ritually pour libations into the dead person's grave through a clay pipe, thereby allowing the dead to drink. Nonetheless, funerary evidence indicates that some people believed that the goddess Inanna, Ereshkigal's younger sister, had the power to award her devotees with special favors in the afterlife. During the Third Dynasty of Ur, it was believed that a person's treatment in the afterlife depended on how he or she was buried; those that had been given sumptuous burials would be treated well, but those who had been given poor burials would fare poorly.\n\nThe entrance to Kur was believed to be located in the Zagros mountains in the far east. It had seven gates, through which a soul needed to pass. The god Neti was the gatekeeper. Ereshkigal's \"sukkal\", or messenger, was the god Namtar. \"Galla\" were a class of demons that were believed to reside in the underworld; their primary purpose appears to have been to drag unfortunate mortals back to Kur. They are frequently referenced in magical texts, and some texts describe them as being seven in number. Several extant poems describe the \"galla\" dragging the god Dumuzid into the underworld. The later Mesopotamians knew this underworld by its East Semitic name: Irkalla. During the Akkadian Period, Ereshkigal's role as the ruler of the underworld was assigned to Nergal, the god of death. The Akkadians attempted to harmonize this dual rulership of the underworld by making Nergal Ereshkigal's husband.\n\nWith the rise of the cult of Osiris during the Middle Kingdom the \"democratization of religion\" offered to even his humblest followers the prospect of eternal life, with moral fitness becoming the dominant factor in determining a person's suitability. At death a person faced judgment by a tribunal of forty-two divine judges. If they had led a life in conformance with the precepts of the Goddess Maat, who represented truth and right living, the person was welcomed into the heavenly reed fields. If found guilty the person was thrown to Ammit, the \"devourer of the dead\" and would be condemned to the lake of fire. The person taken by the devourer is subject first to terrifying punishment and then annihilated. These depictions of punishment may have influenced medieval perceptions of the inferno in hell via early Christian and Coptic texts. Purification for those considered justified appears in the descriptions of \"Flame Island\", where humans experience the triumph over evil and rebirth. For the damned complete destruction into a state of non-being awaits but there is no suggestion of eternal torture; the weighing of the heart in Egyptian mythology can lead to annihilation. The Tale of Khaemwese describes the torment of a rich man, who lacked charity, when he dies and compares it to the blessed state of a poor man who has also died.\nDivine pardon at judgement always remained a central concern for the Ancient Egyptians.\n\nModern understanding of Egyptian notions of hell relies on six ancient texts:\n\n\nIn classic Greek mythology, below Heaven, Earth, and Pontus is Tartarus, or \"Tartaros\" (Greek Τάρταρος, deep place). It is either a deep, gloomy place, a pit or abyss used as a dungeon of torment and suffering that resides within Hades (the entire underworld) with Tartarus being the hellish component. In the \"Gorgias\", Plato (c. 400 BC) wrote that souls were judged after death and those who received punishment were sent to Tartarus. As a place of punishment, it can be considered a hell. The classic Hades, on the other hand, is more similar to Old Testament Sheol.\n\nThe hells of Europe include Breton mythology's \"Anaon\", Celtic mythology's \"Uffern\", Slavic mythology's \"Peklo\", the hell of Sami mythology and Finnish \"tuonela\" (\"manala\").\n\nThe hells of Asia include the Bagobo \"Gimokodan\" and Ancient Indian mythology's \"Kalichi\" or \"Naraka\".\n\nIn folklore among the Ainu people, hell is below ground, and is described as an uninviting wet place reserved for sinful people.\n\nAlso Diyu, Daoist Hell.\n\nAfrican hells include Haida mythology's \"Hetgwauge\" and the Hell of Swahili mythology (\"kuzimu\"). \nSerer religion rejects the general notion of heaven and hell. In Serer religion, acceptance by the ancestors who have long departed is as close to any heaven as one can get. Rejection and becoming a wandering soul is a sort of hell for one passing over. The souls of the dead must make their way to \"Jaaniw\" (the sacred dwelling place of the soul). Only those who have lived their lives on earth in accordance with Serer doctrines will be able to make this necessary journey and thus accepted by the ancestors. Those who can't make the journey become lost and wandering souls, but they do not burn in \"hell fire\".\n\nThe hells of the Americas include the Aztec religion's \"Mictlan\", Inuit religion's \"Adlivun\", and the Yanomami religion's \"Shobari Waka\". In Mayan religion, \"Xibalba\" (or \"Metnal\") is the dangerous underworld of nine levels. The road into and out of it is said to be steep, thorny and very forbidding. Ritual healers would intone healing prayers banishing diseases to \"Xibalba\". Much of the Popol Vuh describes the adventures of the Maya Hero Twins in their cunning struggle with the evil lords of \"Xibalba\".\n\nThe Aztecs believed that the dead traveled to \"Mictlan\", a neutral place found far to the north. There was also a legend of a place of white flowers, which was always dark, and was home to the gods of death, particularly Mictlantecutli and his spouse Mictlantecihuatl, which means literally \"lords of Mictlan\". The journey to \"Mictlan\" took four years, and the travelers had to overcome difficult tests, such as passing a mountain range where the mountains crashed into each other, a field where the wind carried flesh-scraping knives, and a river of blood with fearsome jaguars.\n\nHell is viewed by most Abrahamic traditions as a place of or a form of punishment.\n\nEarly Judaism had no concept of Hell, although the concept of an afterlife was introduced during the Hellenistic period, apparently from neighboring Hellenistic religions. It occurs for example in Book of Daniel. Daniel 12:2 proclaims \"And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, Some to everlasting life, Some to shame and everlasting contempt.\"\n\nJudaism does not have a specific doctrine about the afterlife, but it does have a mystical/Orthodox tradition of describing Gehinnom. Gehinnom is not Hell, but originally a grave and in later times a sort of Purgatory where one is judged based on one's life's deeds, or rather, where one becomes fully aware of one's own shortcomings and negative actions during one's life. The Kabbalah explains it as a \"waiting room\" (commonly translated as an \"entry way\") for all souls (not just the wicked). The overwhelming majority of rabbinic thought maintains that people are not in Gehinnom forever; the longest that one can be there is said to be 12 months, however there has been the occasional noted exception. Some consider it a spiritual forge where the soul is purified for its eventual ascent to Olam Habah (\"heb.\" עולם הבא; \"lit.\" \"The world to come\", often viewed as analogous to heaven). This is also mentioned in the Kabbalah, where the soul is described as breaking, like the flame of a candle lighting another: the part of the soul that ascends being pure and the \"unfinished\" piece being reborn.\n\nAccording to Jewish teachings, hell is not entirely physical; rather, it can be compared to a very intense feeling of shame. People are ashamed of their misdeeds and this constitutes suffering which makes up for the bad deeds. When one has so deviated from the will of God, one is said to be in Gehinnom. This is not meant to refer to some point in the future, but to the very present moment. The gates of teshuva (return) are said to be always open, and so one can align his will with that of God at any moment. Being out of alignment with God's will is itself a punishment according to the Torah.\n\nMany scholars of Jewish mysticism, particularly of the Kabbalah, make mention of seven \"compartments\" or \"habitations\" of Hell, just as there are seven divisions of Heaven. These divisions go by many different names, and the most frequently mentioned are as follows:\n\n\nBesides those mentioned above, there also exist additional terms that have been often used to either refer to Hell in general or to some region of the underworld:\n\n\nFor more information, see Qliphoth.\n\nThe Christian doctrine of hell derives from passages in the New Testament. The word \"hell\" does not appear in the Greek New Testament; instead one of three words is used: the Greek words \"Tartarus\" or \"Hades\", or the Hebrew word \"Gehinnom\".\n\nIn the Septuagint and New Testament the authors used the Greek term Hades for the Hebrew Sheol, but often with Jewish rather than Greek concepts in mind. In the Jewish concept of Sheol, such as expressed in Ecclesiastes, Sheol or Hades is a place where there is no activity. However, since Augustine, Christians have believed that the souls of those who die either rest peacefully, in the case of Christians, or are afflicted, in the case of the damned, after death until the resurrection.\n\nWhile these three terms are translated in the KJV as \"hell\" these three terms have three very different meanings.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church defines Hell as \"a state of definitive self-exclusion from communion with God and the blessed.\" One finds oneself in Hell as the result of dying in mortal sin without repenting and accepting God's merciful love, becoming eternally separated from him by one's own free choice immediately after death. In the Roman Catholic Church, many other Christian churches, such as the Baptists and Episcopalians, and some Greek Orthodox churches, Hell is taught as the final destiny of those who have not been found worthy after the general resurrection and last judgment, where they will be eternally punished for sin and permanently separated from God. The nature of this judgment is inconsistent with many Protestant churches teaching the saving comes from accepting Jesus Christ as their savior, while the Greek Orthodox and Catholic Churches teach that the judgment hinges on both faith and works. However, many Liberal Christians throughout Liberal Protestant and Anglican churches believe in universal reconciliation (see below) even though it might contradict more evangelical views in their denomination.\n\nSome modern Christian theologians subscribe to the doctrines of conditional immortality. Conditional immortality is the belief that the soul dies with the body and does not live again until the resurrection. As with other Jewish writings of the Second Temple period, the New Testament text distinguishes two words, both translated \"Hell\" in older English Bibles: \"Hades\", \"the grave\", and \"Gehenna\" where God \"can destroy both body and soul\". A minority of Christians read this to mean that neither Hades nor Gehenna are eternal but refer to the ultimate destruction of the wicked in the Lake of Fire in a consuming fire after resurrection. However, because of the Greek words used in translating from the Hebrew text has become confused with Greek myths and ideas. In the Hebrew text when people died they went to Sheol, the grave and the wicked ultimately went to Gehenna which is the consuming by fire. So we see where the grave or death or eventual destruction of the wicked, was translated using Greek words that since they had no exact ones to use, became a mix of mistranslation, pagan influence, and Greek myth associated with the word, but its original meaning was simple death or the destruction of the wicked at the end.\n\nChristian mortalism is the doctrine that all men and women, including Christians, must die, and do not continue and are not conscious after death. Therefore, annihilationism includes the doctrine that \"the wicked\" are also destroyed rather than tormented forever in traditional \"Hell\" or the lake of fire. Christian mortalism and annihilationism are directly related to the doctrine of conditional immortality, the idea that a human soul is not immortal unless it is given eternal life at the second coming of Christ and resurrection of the dead.\n\nBiblical scholars looking at the issue through the Hebrew text have denied the teaching of innate immortality. Rejection of the immortality of the soul, and advocacy of Christian mortalism, was a feature of Protestantism since the early days of the Reformation with Martin Luther himself rejecting the traditional idea, though his view did not carry into orthodox Lutheranism. One of the most notable English opponents of the immortality of the soul was Thomas Hobbes who describes the idea as a Greek \"contagion\" in Christian doctrine. Modern proponents of conditional immortality include some in the Anglican church such as N.T. Wright and as denominations the Seventh-day Adventists, Bible Students, Jehovah's Witnesses, Christadelphians, Living Church of God, The Church of God International, and some other Protestant Christians, as well as recent Roman Catholic teaching. It is not Roman Catholic dogma that anyone is in Hell. Also, the 1993 \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\" (CCC) seems to allow room for new understanding. In 1033 it states: 'This state of definitive self-exclusion from communion with God and the blessed is called \"hell”’. Then in 1035 its use of quotation marks can imply the metaphorical nature of the description, and the words that follow are certainly open to interpretation: \"… they suffer the punishments of hell, \"eternal fire.\" The chief punishment of hell is eternal separation from God\" (CCC 1035). During an Audience in 1999, Pope John Paul II commented: \"images of hell that Sacred Scripture presents to us must be correctly interpreted. They show the complete frustration and emptiness of life without God. Rather than a place, hell indicates the state of those who freely and definitively separate themselves from God, the source of all life and joy.\" \n\nThe Seventh-day Adventist Church's official beliefs support annihilationism. They deny the Catholic purgatory and teach that the dead lie in the grave until they are raised for a last judgment, both the righteous and wicked await the resurrection at the Second Coming. Seventh-day Adventists believe that death is a state of unconscious sleep until the resurrection. They base this belief on biblical texts such as which states \"the dead know nothing\", and which contains a description of the dead being raised from the grave at the second coming. These verses, it is argued, indicate that death is only a period or form of slumber.\n\nAdventists teach that the resurrection of the righteous will take place at the second coming of Jesus, while the resurrection of the wicked will occur after the millennium of . They reject the traditional doctrine of hell as a state of everlasting conscious torment, believing instead that the wicked will be permanently destroyed after the millennium.\n\nThe Adventist views about death and hell reflect an underlying belief in: (a) conditional immortality (or conditionalism), as opposed to the immortality of the soul; and (b) the holistic (or monistic) Christian anthropology or nature of human beings, as opposed to bipartite or tripartite views.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses hold that the soul ceases to exist when the person dies and therefore that Hell (Sheol or Hades) is a state of non-existence. In their theology, Gehenna differs from Sheol or Hades in that it holds no hope of a resurrection. Tartarus is held to be the metaphorical state of debasement of the fallen angels between the time of their moral fall (Genesis chapter 6) until their post-millennial destruction along with Satan (Revelation chapter 20).\n\nChristian Universalists believe in universal reconciliation, the belief that all human souls (even demons and fallen angels) will be eventually reconciled with God and admitted to Heaven. This view is held by some Unitarian-Universalists.\n\nAccording to Emanuel Swedenborg's Second Coming Christian revelation, hell exists because evil people want it. They, not God, introduced evil to the human race.\n\nMembers of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) teach that hell is a state between death and resurrection, in which those spirits who did not repent while on earth must suffer for their own sins (Doctrine and Covenants 19:15–17).\n\nIn Islam, \"jahannam\" (in Arabic: جهنم) (related to the Hebrew word \"gehinnom\") is a place filled with blazing fire, boiling water, and a variety of other torments for those who have been condemned to it in the hereafter. After the Day of Judgement, it is to be occupied by those who do not believe in God, those who have disobeyed his laws, or rejected his messengers. \"Enemies of Islam\" are sent to Hell immediately upon their deaths.\n\nLike Zoroastrians, Muslims believe that on Judgement Day, all souls will pass over a bridge over hell (Chinvat Bridge in Zorastrianism, As-Sirāt in Islam) which those destined for hell will find too narrow and fall from into their new abode. Jahannam resembles the Christian versions of Hell in being below heaven and full of fire, but it is primarily a place of punishment, created by God, instead of devils domain to wage war against the heavens above.\n\nThe holy book of Islam, the Quran, gives many literal descriptions of the condemned in a fiery Hell, contrasting them with the garden-like Paradise (\"jannah\") enjoyed by righteous believers.\nSuffering in Hell is both physical and spiritual, and varies according to the sins of the condemned. In the Quran, God firmly declared that a lot of mankind and Jinns will go to the fiery Jahannam.\n\nHeaven and Hell are each divided into seven different levels, with occupants assigned to each depending on their actions—good or bad—during their lifetimes. The gate of Hell is guarded by Maalik, who is the leader of the angels assigned as the guards of hell, also known as \"Zabaaniyah\". While hell is usually described as hot, there is one pit (\"Zamhareer\") characterized in Islamic tradition as unbearably cold, with blizzards, ice, and snow.\n\nPolytheism (\"shirk\") is a particularly grievous sin therefore entering Paradise is forbidden for a polytheist \"(musyrik)\" because his place is Hell; and the lowest pit of Hell (\"Hawiyah\"), is intended for hypocrites who claimed aloud to believe in God and his messenger but in their hearts did not. Not all Muslims and scholars agree whether hell is an eternal destination or whether some or all of the condemned will eventually be forgiven and allowed to enter paradise.\n\nIn the Bahá'í Faith, the conventional descriptions of Hell and Heaven are considered to be symbolic representations of spiritual conditions. The Bahá'í writings describe closeness to God to be Heaven, and conversely, remoteness from God as Hell.\n\nIn \"Devaduta Sutta\", the 130th discourse of the Majjhima Nikaya, Buddha teaches about hell in vivid detail. Buddhism teaches that there are five (sometimes six) realms of rebirth, which can then be further subdivided into degrees of agony or pleasure. Of these realms, the hell realms, or \"Naraka\", is the lowest realm of rebirth. Of the hell realms, the worst is \"Avīci\" or \"endless suffering\". The Buddha's disciple, Devadatta, who tried to kill the Buddha on three occasions, as well as create a schism in the monastic order, is said to have been reborn in the Avici Hell.\n\nHowever, like all realms of rebirth, rebirth in the Hell realms is not permanent, though suffering can persist for eons before being reborn again. In the Lotus Sutra, the Buddha teaches that eventually even Devadatta will become a Pratyekabuddha himself, emphasizing the temporary nature of the Hell realms. Thus, Buddhism teaches to escape the endless migration of rebirths (both positive and negative) through the attainment of Nirvana.\n\nThe Bodhisattva Ksitigarbha, according to the Ksitigarbha Sutra, made a great vow as a young girl to not reach Nirvana until all beings were liberated from the Hell Realms or other unwholesome rebirths. In popular literature, Ksitigarbha travels to the Hell realms to teach and relieve beings of their suffering.\n\nEarly Vedic religion does not have a concept of Hell. Ṛg-veda mentions three realms, bhūr (the earth), svar (the sky) and bhuvas or antarikṣa (the middle area, i.e. air or atmosphere). In later Hindu literature, especially the law books and Puranas, more realms are mentioned, including a realm similar to Hell, called naraka (in Devanāgarī: नरक). Yama as the first born human (together with his twin sister Yamī), by virtue of precedence, becomes ruler of men and a judge on their departure. Originally he resides in Heaven, but later, especially medieval, traditions mention his court in naraka.\n\nIn the law-books (smṛtis and dharma-sūtras, like the Manu-smṛti), naraka is a place of punishment for sins. It is a lower spiritual plane (called \"naraka-loka\") where the spirit is judged and the partial fruits of karma affect the next life. In Mahabharata there is a mention of the Pandavas and the Kauravas both going to Heaven. At first Yudhisthir goes to heaven where he sees Duryodhana enjoying heaven; Indra tells him that Duryodhana is in heaven as he did his Kshatriya duties. Then he shows Yudhisthir hell where it appears his brothers are. Later it is revealed that this was a test for Yudhisthir and that his brothers and the Kauravas are all in heaven and live happily in the divine abode of gods. Hells are also described in various Puranas and other scriptures. The Garuda Purana gives a detailed account of Hell and its features; it lists the amount of punishment for most crimes, much like a modern-day penal code.\n\nIt is believed that people who commit sins go to Hell and have to go through punishments in accordance with the sins they committed. The god Yamarāja, who is also the god of death, presides over Hell. Detailed accounts of all the sins committed by an individual are kept by Chitragupta, who is the record keeper in Yama's court. Chitragupta reads out the sins committed and Yama orders appropriate punishments to be given to individuals. These punishments include dipping in boiling oil, burning in fire, torture using various weapons, etc. in various Hells. Individuals who finish their quota of the punishments are reborn in accordance with their balance of karma. All created beings are imperfect and thus have at least one sin to their record; but if one has generally led a pious life, one ascends to svarga, a temporary realm of enjoyment similar to Paradise, after a brief period of expiation in Hell and before the next reincarnation, according to the law of karma.\n\nAccording to Brahma Kumaris iron world (kalyug, a stage of world cycle) is regarded as hell.\n\nIn Jain cosmology, Naraka (translated as Hell) is the name given to realm of existence having great suffering. However, a Naraka differs from the hells of Abrahamic religions as souls are not sent to Naraka as the result of a divine judgment and punishment. Furthermore, length of a being's stay in a Naraka is not eternal, though it is usually very long and measured in billions of years. A soul is born into a Naraka as a direct result of his or her previous karma (actions of body, speech and mind), and resides there for a finite length of time until his karma has achieved its full result. After his karma is used up, he may be reborn in one of the higher worlds as the result of an earlier karma that had not yet ripened.\n\nThe Hells are situated in the seven grounds at the lower part of the universe. The seven grounds are:\n\nThe hellish beings are a type of souls which are residing in these various hells. They are born in hells by sudden manifestation. The hellish beings possess \"vaikriya\" body (protean body which can transform itself and take various forms). They have a fixed life span (ranging from ten thousand to billions of years) in the respective hells where they reside. According to Jain scripture, Tattvarthasutra, following are the causes for birth in hell:\n\nIn Sikh thought, Hell and Heaven are not places for living hereafter, they are part of spiritual topography of man and do not exist otherwise. They refer to good and evil stages of life respectively and can be lived now and here during our earthly existence. For example, Guru Arjan explains that people who are entangled in emotional attachment and doubt are living in hell on this Earth i.e. their life is hellish.\n\nAncient Taoism had no concept of Hell, as morality was seen to be a man-made distinction and there was no concept of an immaterial soul. In its home country China, where Taoism adopted tenets of other religions, popular belief endows Taoist Hell with many deities and spirits who punish sin in a variety of horrible ways.\n\n\"Diyu\" is the realm of the dead in Chinese mythology. It is very loosely based upon the Buddhist concept of Naraka combined with traditional Chinese afterlife beliefs and a variety of popular expansions and re-interpretations of these two traditions. Ruled by Yanluo Wang, the King of Hell, Diyu is a maze of underground levels and chambers where souls are taken to atone for their earthly sins.\n\nIncorporating ideas from Taoism and Buddhism as well as traditional Chinese folk religion, Diyu is a kind of purgatory place which serves not only to punish but also to renew spirits ready for their next incarnation. There are many deities associated with the place, whose names and purposes are the subject of much conflicting information.\n\nThe exact number of levels in Chinese Hell - and their associated deities - differs according to the Buddhist or Taoist perception. Some speak of three to four 'Courts', other as many as ten. The ten judges are also known as the 10 Kings of Yama. Each Court deals with a different aspect of atonement. For example, murder is punished in one Court, adultery in another. According to some Chinese legends, there are eighteen levels in Hell. Punishment also varies according to belief, but most legends speak of highly imaginative chambers where wrong-doers are sawn in half, beheaded, thrown into pits of filth or forced to climb trees adorned with sharp blades.\n\nHowever, most legends agree that once a soul (usually referred to as a 'ghost') has atoned for their deeds and repented, he or she is given the Drink of Forgetfulness by Meng Po and sent back into the world to be reborn, possibly as an animal or a poor or sick person, for further punishment.\n\nZoroastrianism has historically suggested several possible fates for the wicked, including annihilation, purgation in molten metal, and eternal punishment, all of which have standing in Zoroaster's writings. Zoroastrian eschatology includes the belief that wicked souls will remain in hell until, following the arrival of three saviors at thousand-year intervals, Ahura Mazda reconciles the world, destroying evil and resurrecting tormented souls to perfection.\n\nThe sacred Gathas mention a \"House of the Lie″ for those \"that are of an evil dominion, of evil deeds, evil words, evil Self, and evil thought, Liars.\" However, the best-known Zoroastrian text to describe hell in detail is the Book of Arda Viraf. It depicts particular punishments for particular sins—for instance, being trampled by cattle as punishment for neglecting the needs of work animals. Other descriptions can be found in the \"Book of Scriptures (Hadhokht Nask), Religious Judgments (Dadestan-i Denig)\" and the \"Book of the Judgments of the Spirit of Wisdom (Mainyo-I-Khard)\".\n\nIn Wicca, there is no such thing as hell because Wiccans largely do not believe in the concept of punishment or reward. Although Wiccan views differ among different denominations, Wiccans tend to prefer viewing the Horned God and the Goddess as gentle deities.\n\nIn his \"Divina commedia\" (\"Divine Comedy\"), set in the year 1300), Dante Alighieri employed the concept of taking Virgil as his guide through Inferno (and then, in the second canticle, up the mountain of Purgatorio). Virgil himself is not condemned to Hell proper in Dante's poem but is rather, as a virtuous pagan, confined to Limbo just at the edge of Hell. The geography of Hell is very elaborately laid out in this work, with nine concentric rings leading deeper into the Earth and deeper into the various punishments of Hell, until, at the center of the world, Dante finds Satan himself trapped in the frozen lake of Cocytus. A small tunnel leads past Satan and out to the other side of the world, at the base of the Mount of Purgatory.\n\nJohn Milton's \"Paradise Lost\" (1667) opens with the fallen angels, including their leader Satan, waking up in Hell after having been defeated in the war in heaven and the action returns there at several points throughout the poem. Milton portrays Hell as the abode of the demons, and the passive prison from which they plot their revenge upon Heaven through the corruption of the human race. 19th-century French poet Arthur Rimbaud alluded to the concept as well in the title and themes of one of his major works, \"A Season In Hell\". Rimbaud's poetry portrays his own suffering in a poetic form as well as other themes.\n\nMany of the great epics of European literature include episodes that occur in Hell. In the Roman poet Virgil's Latin epic, the \"Aeneid\", Aeneas descends into Dis (the underworld) to visit his father's spirit. The underworld is only vaguely described, with one unexplored path leading to the punishments of Tartarus, while the other leads through Erebus and the Elysian Fields.\n\nThe idea of Hell was highly influential to writers such as Jean-Paul Sartre who authored the 1944 play \"No Exit\" about the idea that \"Hell is other people\". Although not a religious man, Sartre was fascinated by his interpretation of a Hellish state of suffering. C.S. Lewis's \"The Great Divorce\" (1945) borrows its title from William Blake's \"Marriage of Heaven and Hell\" (1793) and its inspiration from the \"Divine Comedy\" as the narrator is likewise guided through Hell and Heaven. Hell is portrayed here as an endless, desolate twilight city upon which night is imperceptibly sinking. The night is actually the Apocalypse, and it heralds the arrival of the demons after their judgment. Before the night comes, anyone can escape Hell if they leave behind their former selves and accept Heaven's offer, and a journey to Heaven reveals that Hell is infinitely small; it is nothing more or less than what happens to a soul that turns away from God and into itself.\n\nPiers Anthony in his series \"Incarnations of Immortality\" portrays examples of Heaven and Hell via Death, Fate, Underworld, Nature, War, Time, Good-God, and Evil-Devil. Robert A. Heinlein offers a yin-yang version of Hell where there is still some good within; most evident in his book \"\". Lois McMaster Bujold uses her five Gods 'Father, Mother, Son, Daughter and Bastard' in \"The Curse of Chalion\" with an example of Hell as formless chaos. Michael Moorcock is one of many who offer Chaos-Evil-(Hell) and Uniformity-Good-(Heaven) as equally unacceptable extremes which must be held in balance; in particular in the \"Elric\" and \"Eternal Champion\" series. Fredric Brown wrote a number of fantasy short stories about Satan's activities in Hell. Cartoonist Jimmy Hatlo created a series of cartoons about life in Hell called \"The Hatlo Inferno\", which ran from 1953 to 1958.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29696466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29696466", "title": "Islam in Kashmir", "text": "Islam in Kashmir\n\nIslam is the major religion practiced in Kashmir, with 97.16% of the region's population identifying as Muslims, as of 2014. Islam came to the region with the influx of Muslim Sufis preachers from Central Asia and Persia, beginning the early 14th century. The majority of the Kashmiri Muslims are of the Sunni religious persuasion, with Kashmiri Shias accounting for about 5-10 per cent of the population. Non-Kashmiri Muslims in Kashmir include semi-nomadic cowherds and shepherds, belonging to the Gurjar and Bakarwal communities.\n\nMinority religious groups in Kashmir include 1.84% Hindus, 0.88% Sikhs, and 0.11% Buddhists.\n\nDuring the 8th century,the Kingdom of Kashmir was subjected to several attacks aimed at its conquest. The Umayyads conquered Turkistan, Kabul, and Kashgar. Their conquests were further consolidated by the early Abbasids. In 751 C.E, Arabs gained victory over the Chinese and compelled them to abandon Gilgit and their other territories in the extreme west. Though these conquests brought Arabs within the vicinity of the Kingdom of Kashmir, no attempt was made at its invasion from the north. However, several attempts to conquer Kashmir were made by the Arabs who had established themselves in Sindh (711-13 C.E), under the leadership Muhammad bin Qasim. During the reign of Raja Chandrapida, Muhammad bin Qasim marched from Mutan to the borders of Kashmir kingdom. The Raja sent an envoy to the Chinese emperor asking for help against the Arabs, but, no aid was received. Muhammad bin Qasim was recalled by the Umayyad Caliph to Damascus, thus averting the possible invasion. In the reign of Caliph Hisham (724-43 C.E), the Arabs again marched towards Kashmir under the leadership of ambitious and energetic leadership of the governor Junaid. Lalitaditya Muktapida (724–60 CE), the Raja (ruler) of Kashmir, defeated Junaid and overran his kingdom. However, this victory was not decisive as further attempts to invade were made by the Arabs, but Lalitaditya was able to stem the tide of these advances. A last attempt at the invasion of the Kashmir Kingdom was made by Hisham ibn 'Amr al-Taghlibi, the Governor of Sindh, appointed by Caliph Mansur (754-75 C.E). Though he reached as far as the southern slopes of the Himalayas, which were a part of the Kashmir Kingdom, he failed to enter, and occupy the valley.\n\nAfter the Arabs, it was the Ghaznavids who attempted to conquer Kashmir. Mahmud of Ghazni, known for his numerous invasions into India, defeated Raja Jaipal (1002 C.E), the ruler of Waihand (near Peshawar, in modernday Pakistan).Anandpal, the son and successor of Jaipal, also suffered a crushing defeat at the hands of Mahmud in 1009 C.E., and died a few years later. Anandpal's son Trilochanpala, whose power of influence was now confined only to the Salt Range, appealed to Samgramaraja (1003-28 C.E), the king of Kashmir, for help against Mahmud. A large army contingent was sent by Samgramaraja, who joined Trilochanpala's forces, and won a battle against a reconnaissance party of Sultan Mahmud. Seeing this, Mahmud personally advanced for battle and defeated Trilochanpala in 1014 C.E. Provoked by Samgramaraja's conduct, Mahmud decided to invade Kashmir, and punish him. Mahmud advanced towards Kashmir and tried entering the kingdom via the Toshamaidan Pass. His progress was checked by the strong Loharkot Fort, which he besieged for a month. Owing to the heavy snowfall, which cut off Mahmud's communications, he was compelled to retreat. However, the Sultan again set out to invade Kashmir in September–October, 1021 C.E, but was again compelled to retreat due to bad weather conditions.\n\nAfter Sultan Mahmud's attempted conquests, Kashmir remained generally unaffected by invasions that were aimed at the plains of India, up until 1320 C.E. The Loharas (1003-1320 C.E.) ruled during this period, and was the last of the Hindu dynasties of Kashmir. In the spring of 1320, a Mongol chieftain by the name of Zulju, invaded Kashmir via the Jehlum Valley route. Suhadeva (1301–20 C.E), last ruler of the Loharas, tried to organize resistance, but failed due to his unpopularity among the masses. The reason for this unpopularity was financial exaction and general misrule that prevailed during the end period of the Lohara Dynasty. Zulju's invasion created havoc and Suhadeva fled to Kistwar. Rinchana, son of a Ladakhi chief, who was employed by Ramacandra (Prime Minister of Kashmir) to establish law and order, took advantage of the chaos. He got Ramacandra murdered, occupied the Kashmir throne by the end of the year 1320, and ruled until his death in 1323 C.E. In order to gain acceptance of Kashmiris, he married Kota Rani, the daughter of Ramacandra, and made Rawancandra (Ramacandra's son) his commander in chief. Rinchan converted to Islam after coming into contact with Sayyid Sharfudin, a Sufi preacher commonly known as Bulbul Shah, who had come to Kashmir during the reign of Suhadeva. He changed his name to Sultan Sardarudin Shah after converting to Islam, and thus became the first Muslim ruler of Kashmir. Following the conversion of Rinchan, his commander in chief also became Muslim. The royal patronage for Islam won it new converts, and according to one source, many Kashmiris embraced the creed of Bulbul Shah.\n\nThe period after Sultan Sardarudin's death was marked by chaos and power tussle. Udayanadeva, the brother of Suhadeva, was made the ruler after an agreement among the nobles. However, he proved to be incompetent, and it was Kota Rani who was the virtual ruler. Soon after Udayanadeva's accession, a foreign chieftain attacked Kashmir, but the invaders were successfully repelled and defeated. However, the administration again fell into chaos. Udayanadeva had fled the country in sight of the attack, and lost his prestige in the eyes of the nobles. He died in the year 1338 C.E, and Kota Rani ascended the throne. But, Shah Mir, a nobleman employed earlier by Suhadeva, had other ambitions. A period of battle ensued between him and Kota Rani, and in 1339 C.E, Shah Mir captured the throne.\n\nThe Shahmiri Dynasty (1339- 1561 C.E), founded by Sultan Shah Mir, ruled Kashmir for the next 222 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "25787330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25787330", "title": "Islam in Tuvalu", "text": "Islam in Tuvalu\n\nIslam is a minority religion in the island nation Tuvalu. With the introduction of Islam in 1985 by Ahmadi Muslims, there are approximately 50 Muslims in the country, of which all are members of the Ahmadiyya movement. Due to the country's small population, this represents 0.5% of Tuvalu. The Tuvalu Mosque, in Funafuti, the capital of Tuvalu, is the only mosque in the country.\n\nIslam was first introduced to the island nation by a British Ahmadi Muslim of Pakistani descent, Iftikhar A. Ayaz, who works as the British consular representative to Tuvalu Islands. In 1985, he came to Tuvalu, and in out of office hours, he endeavoured to introduce the Islamic faith to the local population. With several converts to the faith, Ayaz requested the headquarters of the Community in London to send a missionary to the Islands. As a result, Hafiz Jibrail, a Ghanaian missionary, who was already based in the South Pacific at the time, arrived in 1989, approximately four years after the introduction of Islam to the nation. However, in 1991 Hafiz Jibrail had to be transferred to the Kiribati Islands and thus was replaced by Abdul Ghaffar, another Ghanaian missionary to the Community. Nonetheless, having served the Islands for roughly 5 years, he returned to serve his home country, Ghana. After a lag of several years, during which the islands had no missionary, Abdul Hakeem Boateng, another Ghanaian missionary arrived in 2003, who served there until 2009. Since 2009, Muhammad Idris, an Indonesian missionary to the Ahmadiyya Community, is now the current and first non-Ghanaian missionary to Tuvalu.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community translated the Quran into the Tuvaluan language in 1990. The Tuvalu mosque, first constructed in 1991, is the only mosque in the Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "39632208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39632208", "title": "Jabach Altarpiece", "text": "Jabach Altarpiece\n\nThe Jabach Altarpiece is an oil on lime tree panel painting by German Renaissance artist Albrecht Dürer, executed around 1503–1504. Originally a triptych, only the side panels are now preserved: the right picture, measuring 96×54 cm, is housed in the Wallraf-Richartz Museum of Cologne; the left picture, measuring 96×51 cm, is housed in the Städel of Frankfurt.\n\nThe altarpiece was probably commissioned by Frederick III, Elector of Saxony, for a chapel in his castle at Wittenberg, perhaps in occasion of the end of the plague in 1503.\n\nThe reconstruction of the work is disputed. Some art historians identify the central panel with the Uffizi \"Adoration of the Magi\", while according to others there was instead a group of sculptures. The \"Apostles\" on gilded background now at the Alte Pinakothek of Munich have also been associated with the polyptych: in this view, the two known paintings would form a single image on the external shutters once closed; in fact, the two share a common background, and the dress of Job's wife continues to the right panel as well.\n\nIt is named after one of its owners, Everhard Jabach, in whose family chapel it was still hanging in the late 18th century, before being split up and scattered to different locations.\n\nThe left panel depicts the prophet Job seated, with a desperate expression on his face, after Satan has defied him to keep his allegiance to God even in the most tremendous afflictions. These include his flock getting scattered in the other panel, while his properties are on fire at the left edge. Further, his skin is covered by blisters, an appropriate element for a painting likely originated as an ex-voto for the end of plague. His wife, dressed in Renaissance garments, is pouring dirty water above him, while a small devil flees in the far background.\n\nThe right panel shows two standing musicians. The right one, with the drum, is perhaps a self-portrait. Their meaning has not been explained: they could be a further element of mockery against Job, or, instead, an attempt to console him through music.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "14270934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14270934", "title": "Johan Kemper", "text": "Johan Kemper\n\nJohan Christian Jacob Kemper (1670–1716), formerly Moshe ben Aharon of Kraków, was a Polish Sabbatean Jew who converted from Judaism to Lutheran Christianity. His conversion was motivated by his studies in Kabbalah and his disappointment following the failure of a prophecy spread by the Polish Sabbatean prophet Zadok of Grodno, which predicted that Sabbatai Zevi would return in the year 1695/6, It is unclear whether he continued to observe Jewish practices after his conversion.\n\nIn March 1701 he was employed as a teacher of Rabbinic Hebrew at Uppsala University in Sweden, until his death in 1716. Some scholars believe that he was Emanuel Swedenborg's Hebrew tutor.\n\nDuring his time at Uppsala, he wrote his three-volume work on the \"Zohar\" entitled \"Matteh Moshe\" (\"The Staff of Moses\"), (1711). In it, he attempted to show that the \"Zohar\" contained the Christian doctrine of the Trinity.\n\nThis belief also drove him to make a literal Hebrew translation of the Gospel of Matthew from Syriac (1703). He also wrote \"Me'irat 'Enayim\" (\"The Enlightenment of the Eyes\"), (1704) a Christian Cabala commentary on Matthew, which emphasized the unity of the Old and New Testaments and used elements from the Sabbatean and non-Sabbatean Kabbalistic traditions to derive Christian beliefs and meanings from traditional Jewish beliefs and practices.\n\nIn his commentary on polemical treatment of Christianity in rabbinical literature he was one of the first Lutherans to comment on the connection between the form of the name \"Joshua\" used for Jesus in the Talmud, \"Yeshu\" instead of the normal \"Yeshua\" used for other figures, and connected the dropping of the final ayin with the ancient curse \"yimakh shemo.\"\n\nAfter his death, Kemper's student Andreas Norrelius (1679–1749) translated the commentary into Latin as \"Illuminatio oculorum\" (\"The Light of the Eyes\"),(1749).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22846942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22846942", "title": "José Cabanis", "text": "José Cabanis\n\nJosé Cabanis (2 March 1922 – 6 October 2000) was a French novelist, essayist, historian and magistrate. He was elected mainteneur of the Académie des Jeux floraux in 1965 and a member of the Académie française in 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1140368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1140368", "title": "Kadamba dynasty", "text": "Kadamba dynasty\n\nThe Kadambas (Kannada: ಕದಂಬರು) (345–525 CE) were an ancient royal family of Karnataka, India, that ruled northern Karnataka and the Konkan from Banavasi in present-day Uttara Kannada district. At the peak of their power under King Kakuthsavarma, they ruled large parts of modern Karnataka state.\n\nThe dynasty was founded by Mayurasharma in 345 CE which at later times showed the potential of developing into imperial proportions, an indication to which is provided by the titles and epithets assumed by its rulers. He was the grand son of Veera Sharma and son of Bhandhu Shena. King Mayurasharma defeated the armies of the Pallavas of Kanchi possibly with help of some native tribes. The Kadamba fame reached its peak during the rule of Kakusthavarma, a notable ruler with whom even the kings of Gupta Dynasty of northern India cultivated marital alliances. Tiring of the endless battles and bloodshed, one of the later descendants, King Shivakoti adopted Jainism. The Kadambas were contemporaries of the Western Ganga Dynasty and together they formed the earliest native kingdoms to rule the land with absolute autonomy. The dynasty later continued to rule as a feudatory of larger Kannada empires, the Chalukya and the Rashtrakuta empires, for over five hundred years during which time they branched into minor dynasties known as the Kadambas of Goa, Kadambas of Halasi and Kadambas of Hangal.\n\nDuring the pre-Kadamba era the ruling families that controlled the Karnataka region, the Mauryas, and the Satavahanas were not natives of the region and the nucleus of power resided outside present-day Karnataka. The Kadambas were the first indigenous dynasty to use Kannada, the language of the soil, at an administrative level. In the history of Karnataka, this era serves as a broad based historical starting point in the study of the development of region as an enduring geo-political entity and Kannada as an important regional language. Their legacy was so impressive that even the Vijayanagara rulers who fought the Deccan sultanates hired descendants of the Kadambas to manage their Goan military naval fleet.\n\nThere is no shortage of myths about the origin of the Kadambas. According to one account the dynasty was founded by one \"Trilochana Kadamba\" also known from the Halsi and Degamve records as \"Jayanta\" who had three eyes and four arms. He was born out of the sweat of Shiva, which had fallen under a Kadamba tree and hence his name Kadamba.\nAccording to another myth, Mayurasharma himself was born to Lord Shiva and mother earth and had three eyes. Most of the inscriptions of the Kadambas mention Skanda and his \"Matrs\" (mothers). According to the Talagunda inscription, the founder Mayurasharma was anointed by \"the six-faced god of war\", that is Skanda or Kartikeya. According to \"Grama Paddhati\", a Kannada work dealing with the history of the Tulu Brahmanas, Mayurasharma was born to Lord Shiva and goddess Parvathi under a Kadamba tree in the Sahyadri mountains and hence the name Kadamba. An inscription of the Nagarakhanda Kadambas, a later descendent dynasty, gives a legendary account and traces their lineage back to the Nandas. According to the inscription, King Nanda who had no heir prayed to Lord Shiva in the Kailash mountains when a heavenly voice advised him that two sons would be born to him, would bear the name of Kadamba \"Kula\" (family) and they should be instructed in the use of weapons.\n\nThere are two theories to the origin of the Kadamba dynasty, a native Kannadiga origin and the other a north Indian origin. Mention of the north Indian origin of the Kadambas are only found in their later records of their offshoot descendent dynasty and is considered legendary. The earliest record making this claim is the 1053 and 1055 inscriptions of Harikesari Deva which are copied in inscriptions thereafter, describing Mayurasharma as the progenitor of the kingdom who established his might on the summit of Mount Himavat. But this theory has not found popularity as there is no indication of this account in any of their early records. On the contrary, the family derives its name from the Kadamba tree that is common only to the South India region.\n\nHistorians are divided on the issue of the caste of the Kadamba family, whether the founders of the kingdom belonged to the Brahmin caste as claimed by the Talagunda inscription, or were of tribal origin. A claim has been made that the Kadambas were none other than a tribe called the Kadambu, who were in conflict with the Chera kingdom (of modern Kerala). The 'Kadambus' find mention in the Sangam literature as totemic worshippers of the Kadambu tree and the Hindu god Subramanya. While some historians have argued that they being of Brahmin descent made Mayurasharma's ancestors natives of northern India, the counter argument is that it was common for Dravidian peoples to be received into the Brahmanic caste during early and later medieval times. Being native Kannadigas, the Kadambas promptly gave administrative and political importance to their language, Kannada, after coming to power. It is thus claimed that the family of the Kadambas were undoubtedly of Kanarese descent and may have been admitted into the Brahminical caste. The Naga descent of the Kadambas has been stated in early inscriptions of King Krishna Varma I too, which confirms the family was from present day Karnataka.\n\nInscriptions in Sanskrit and Kannada are the main sources of the Kadamba history. The Talagunda, Gundanur, Chandravalli, Halasi and Halmidi inscription are some of the important inscriptions that throw light on this ancient ruling family of Karnataka. They belonged to the \"Manavya Gotra\" and were \"Haritiputrās\" (lineage), which connects them to the native Chutus of Banavasi, a feudatory of the Satavahana empire. Inscriptions of the Kadambas in Kannada and Sanskrit ascribed to the main dynasty and branch kingdoms have been published by historians. The Kadambas minted coins with Nagari, Kannada and Grantha legends which provide additional numismatic evidence of their history.\n\nKadambas were the first rulers to use Kannada as an additional official administrative language, as evidenced by the Halmidi inscription of 450. Three Kannada inscriptions from their early rule from Banavasi have been discovered. Several early Kadamba dynasty coins bearing the Kannada inscription \"Vira\" and \"Skandha\" was found in Satara collectorate. A gold coin of King Bhagiratha (390–415 CE) bearing the old Kannada legend \"Sri\" and \"Bhagi\" also exists. Recent discovery of 5th century Kadamba copper coin in Banavasi with Kannada script inscription \"Srimanaragi\" on it proves the usage of Kannada at the administrative level further.\n\nOne of their earliest inscriptions, the Talagunda inscription of Santivarma (450) gives what may be the most possible cause for the emergence of the Kadamba kingdom. It states that Mayurasharma was a native of Talagunda, (in present-day Shimoga district) and his family got its name from the Kadamba tree that grew near his home. The inscription narrates how Mayurasharma proceeded to Kanchi in 345 along with his guru and grandfather Veerasarma to pursue his Vedic studies at a Ghatika (school). There, owing to some misunderstanding between him and a Pallava guard or at an \"Ashvasanstha\" (a place of horse sacrifice), a quarrel arose in which Mayurasharma was humiliated. In high rage, the Brahmana discontinued his studies, left Kanchi, swearing vengeance on the impudent Pallavas, and took to arms. He collected a faithful group of followers and routed the Pallava armies near Srisilam region. After a prolonged period of low intensity warfare against the Pallavas and other smaller kings such as the Brihad-Banas of Kolar region, he proclaimed independence. Unable to contain him, the Pallavas had to accept his sovereignty. Thus in an act of righteous indignation was born the first native kingdom of Karnataka, the Pallava King Skandavarman condescending to recognise the growing might of the Kadambas south of the Malaprabha river as a sovereign power. Scholars such as Mores and Sastry opine that Mayurasharma availed himself of the confusion that was created by the invasion of Samudragupta who in his Allahabad Inscription claims to have defeated Vishnugopa of Kanchi. Taking advantage of the weakening of the Pallava power, Mayura appears to have succeeded in establishing a new kingdom.\" The fact that Mayurasharma had to travel to distant Kanchi for Vedic studies gives an indication that Vedic lore was quite rudimentary in the region at that time. The recently discovered Gudnapur inscription states that Mauryasharma's grandfather and preceptor was Virasarma and his father Bandhushena developed the character of a Kshatriya.\n\nMayurasharma's successor was his son Kangavarma in 365 who had to fight the Vakataka might to protect \"Kuntala\". He was defeated by Vakataka Prithvisena but managed to maintain his freedom.\nHis son Bhagiratha is said to have retrieved his fathers losses but Vakataka inscriptions do not attest to this. His son Raghu died fighting the Pallavas. He was succeeded by his brother Kakusthavarma who was the most powerful ruler of the dynasty. He maintained marital relations with even the imperial Guptas of the north, according to the Talagunda inscription. One of his daughters was married to Kumara Gupta's son Skanda Gupta. His other daughter was married to a Vakataka king Narendrasena. He maintained similar relations with the Bhatari, the Alupas of South Canara and the Western Ganga Dynasty of Gangavadi according to the Talagunda inscription. The great poet Kalidasa had visited his court.\n\nAfter Kakusthavarma only Ravivarma who came to the throne in 485 was able to build upon the kingdom. His rule was marked by a series of clashes within the family, and also against the Pallavas and the Gangas. He is also credited with a victory against the Vakatakas, which helped extend his Kingdom as far north as the river Narmada. The crux of their kingdom essentially consisted of large areas of Karnataka, Goa and southern areas of present-day Maharashtra. After his death, the kingdom went into decline due to family feuds. The Birur plates of Kadamba Vishnuvarman call Shantivarman \"The master of the entire Karnataka region\". The Triparvatha branch that broke away in 455 ruled from Murod in Belagavi for some time and merged with the main Banavasi kingdom during rule of Harivarma. Finally the kingdom fell to the power of the Badami Chalukyas. The Kadambas thereafter became feudatories of the Badami Chalukyas and later the Rashtrakutas and Kalyani Chalukyas. The successors of Mayurasharma took to the name \"varma\" to indicate their Kshatriya status.\n\nKadamba coins were one the heaviest and perhaps purest of all medieval Indian gold coinage. They issued 2 types of gold coins, those which were punch-marked and others which were die-struck. During 1075-1094 CE, Shanti Varma, issued gold punch-marked coins and in 1065 CE, Toyimadeva, issued die-struck gold coins.\n\n\"Punch-marked gold coins\"\n\n\n\"Die struck gold coins (Pagoda)\"\n\n\nThey have been definitively attributed to the Kadambas because they not only have various Kadamba symbols, such as conches and chakras, but one of the epithets on the coins, \"sri dosharashi\", is known from inscriptions to have been used by the Kadamba king Krishnavarma II (ruled 516–540). Other coins with the legend \"sri manarashi\" were also found, along with anepigraphic coins (that is, coins without any legends) featuring flowers, \"chakras\", and conches. The lotus, \"chakra\" (discus), and conch are all symbols of the god Vishnu. Kadamba inscriptions frequently invoke Vishnu, indicating they must have been devotees of this deity. The identity of the king named \"sri manarashi\" has still not been determined.\n\nThe coins are perhaps the earliest ones to use Kannada letters, a confirmation that the Kadambas were the first ruling dynasty native to Karnataka.\nThe Halmidi inscription was the earliest known epigraph that showed the early usage of Kannada script (Kadamba script). The stone inscription found at Halmidi has been assigned to C. 450 CE. and belongs to Kadamba ruler \"Kakusthavarma\", whose reign is estimated to be between 435 CE to 455 CE.\n\nIn the year 2006, the Jalagars, the sand sievers family, from Tamil Nadu, yielded around 6 Kannada inscribed potin coins from the riverbed of Varada in Sirsi Taluk, which is in Uttara Kannada district. The legends could not be satisfactorily deciphered by Sri MM Prabhu of Mangalore due to the poor chipped condition of coins, and was read Sri Manaragi. Later, when more coins came to limelight, the next year, he managed to attribute it to the Kadambas of Banavasi. The Banavasi village, which is away from the Sirsi town was the ancient capital of the Kadambas of Banavasi. Banavasi was also known as \"Jaldurga\" in the \"Aihole inscription of Pulakeshin II\". The Varada river encompassed the Banavasi town in all the four directions to form a natural water port and hence the name Jal (water) durga (port).\n\nFor the next two years (2007–2008), the Jalagars made a headway and yielded Satavahana Potin coins bearing Elephant/quadri-directional symbol in quantity above 5000 pieecs along with few hundreds of Kura Potin coins bearing Bull/Bow-and-Arrow symbols. Most of the elephant Satavahana coins were of rulers Siri, Satakarni and Pudumavi. The Satavahaha fractions of up to 50 mg weight, with similar elephant motiff and illegible legend were also obtained. The Bull/Discus Potin coins were issued mainly by Rajno Vishnurudra though other rulers name such as Vishnurudra Putra, Vasithi Putra, Satakarni etc. exist. Third of the series, the inscribed Kadamba Potin coins were found too, but in small quantities, estimated to be around 100 pieces with four unique legend types. Only the coins bearing the legend Sri-Manarashi and Sr-Dhosharashi have been published yet. There exist around 10 die variations of the same. Other coins such as Bull/Trident-Goad coins in bell metal of tetradrachm standard bearing legend Vinukhata Brahmananda were found in 5 to 6 numbers, Copper and Lead coins of Chutukulananda, Mulananda and Sivalananda etc. are seen seldom in those river beds but in too lesser numbers. Copper coins of Chutus were not known hitherto. Since Banavasi was an important religious site of sanctity, the site attracted old-age piigrims from distant places who spent their last days in the holy site. They offered coins such as Guptas, Kushan, Roman, Western Kshatrapas, Vijayanagaras and Hoysalas etc., which stands evidence to this.\n\nAs far as the chronology of these Banavasi Kadamba coins concerned, Sri-Dhosharashi coins follow Sri-Manarashi coins as evidenced by the script style. Since Dhosharashi epithet was adorned by Ravivarma, the Manarashi coins are either issued by the predecessors Shanthivarma or Mrigeshavarma. This is understood by the script style of Manarashi coins that resembled more that of Halmidi inscription. Moreover, Halmidi inscription is assigned to Kakkushthavarman. These potin coins are observed in varied weights such as 200 mg to 400 mg stanadard. The fractional coins weighed around 100 mg and contained religious symbols such as Discus, Conch and Lotus, which are the icons of Lord Vishnu.\n\nTheir Talagunda inscription had an invocation of Lord Shiva while the Halmidi and Banavasi inscriptions started with an invocation of Lord Vishnu. Moreover, their temple, the Madukeshwara, also seem to have undergone several changes over a period. The initial statue is believed to be of Lord Vishnu while Siva Linga is currently worshipped. Another tale about this place involves the slaying of demon Madhu by Lord Vishnu at the behest of Lord Shiva. This tale is mentioned in the Puranas. So, the religious symbol such as Conch, Discuss and Lotus only signifies the fractional value of coin, which is seen evenin the Hanas and Hagas of the Alupas and Gangas, who were the contemporaries and also in time, the feudatories of the Kadambas of Banavasi.\n\nIt is impressive to see the shift of script usage to Kannada, from the Satavahana Brahmi. Satavahana Brahmi was used by the Chutus, Satavahanas and the Kuras respectively as the official script. It is quite possible that Kannada was in use prior to the rule of the Chutus but Brahmi was the script. The usage of Kannada script in coins and inscriptions is the gift of the Kadambas and trend continued in the whole of then Karnataka. The stone tablets recently found in Parkala, Udupi taluk, attests the usage of Kannada around the same period (5th century CE).\n\nThe Kadamba kings called themselves \"Dharmamaharajas\" like the Satavahana kings. Dr. Mores has identified various cabinet and other positions in the kingdom from inscriptions. The prime minister (\"Pradhana\"), Steward (\"Manevergade\"), secretary of council (\"Tantrapala\" or \"Sabhakarya Sachiva\"), scholarly elders (\"Vidyavriddhas\"), physician (\"Deshamatya\"), private secretary (\"Rahasyadhikritha\"), chief secretary (\"Sarvakaryakarta\"), chief justice (\"Dharmadhyaksha\") and other officials (\"Bhojaka\" and \"Ayukta\"). The army consisted of officers like \"Jagadala\", \"Dandanayaka\" and \"Senapathi\".\n\nA crown prince from the royal family helped the king in administration. Princesses of the royal family were appointed as governors of various provinces. King Kakusthavarma had appointed his son Krishna as viceroy of Thriparvatha region. This later proved detrimental to the kingdom as it gave opportunity for break away factions in the kingdom.\nThe kingdom was divided into \"Mandalas\" (provinces) or \"Desha\". Under a \"Mandala\" was \"Vishayas\" (districts). A total of nine \"Vishaya\" have been identified. Under a \"Vishaya\" were \"Mahagramas\" (Taluk) and \"Dashagramas\" (Hobli). \"Mahagrama\" had more villages than \"Dashagramas\". One sixth of land produce was collected as tax. Taxes were collected as \"Perjunka\" (levy on load), \"Vaddaravula\" (social security tax for royal family), \"Bilkoda\" (sales tax), \"Kirukula\" (land tax), \"Pannaya\" (betel tax) and other professional taxes on traders etc.\n\nThe Kadambas were followers of Vedic Hinduism. The founder, Mayurasharma was a Brahmin by birth but later his successors changed their surname to \"Varma\" to indicate their Kshatriya status but they used to marry brahmins only. Some Kadamba kings like Krishna Varma performed the \"Ashwamedha\" (horse sacrifice). Their Talagunda inscription starts with an invocation of Lord Shiva while the Halmidi and Banavasi inscriptions start with an invocation of Lord Vishnu. They built the Madhukesvara temple which is considered their family deity. Many records like the Kudalur, Sirsi records speak of grants made by them to scholarly Brahmins. Grants were also made to Buddhist viharas.\n\nThe Kadambas also patronised Jainism; several of the latter kings adopted the religion, and built numerous Jain \"Basadis\" (temples) that are scattered around Banavasi, Belagavi, Mangaluru and Goa. Kings and Queens of the dynasty were renowned for their support of literature, arts and liberal grants to temples and educational institutions.\n\nSeveral descendants are scattered around present day Goa, Belagavi, Mangaluru and Bengaluru.\nAdikavi Pampa highly spoke of this kingdom in his writings. Following are his famous quotes on Banavasi: \"Aaramkushamittodam nenevudenna manam banavasi deshamam\" (\"I shall cherish the sweet memories of Banavasi even when tortured\"), \"Maridumbiyagi mEN Kogileyagi puttuvudu nandanadol Banavasi deshadol\" (\"As a bee or as nightingale should one born here in this beautiful country of Banavasi\").\n\nThe contribution of the Kadambas to the architectural heritage of Karnataka is certainly worthy of recognition. The Kadamba style can be identified and that it has a few things in common with the Chalukya and the Pallava styles. The most prominent feature of their architecture, basic as it was is their \"Shikara\" called \"Kadamba Shikara\". The \"Shikara\" is pyramid shaped and rises in steps without any decoration with a \"Stupika\" or \"Kalasha\" at the top. This style of \"Shikara\" are used several centuries later in the Doddagaddavalli Hoysala temple and the Mahakuta temples in Hampi. Some of their temples also use perforated screen windows. It has also been pointed out that in architecture and sculpture, the Kadambas contributed to the foundation of the later Chalukya-Hoysala style.\nThe \"Madhukeshwara\" (Lord Shiva) temple built by them still exists in Banavasi. Built in the 10th century and renovated many times, the temple is a very good piece of art. The stone cot with wonderful carvings is one of the main tourist attractions in the temple.\n\n\"Kadambotsava\" (\"The festival of Kadamba\") a festival is celebrated every year by Government of Karnataka in honour of this kingdom. A popular Kannada film, \"Mayura\" starring Dr. Raj Kumar based on a novel of the same name by Devudu Narasimha Sastri celebrates the creation of the first Kannada kingdom.\n\nOn 31 May 2005 Defence minister Pranab Mukherjee commissioned India's most advanced and first dedicated military naval base named INS Kadamba after the Kadamba dynasty, in Karwar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8810845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8810845", "title": "Karen Berg", "text": "Karen Berg\n\nKaren Berg is an author and the Founder of the Kabbalah Centre International. She has written four books, \"God Wears Lipstick: Kabbalah for Women\", \"Simple Light, Wisdom from a Woman's Heart\", \"To Be Continued, Reincarnation and the Purpose of our Lives\", and \"Finding the Light through the Darkness, Inspirational lessons rooted in the Bible and the Zohar\".\n\nFrom a young age, Karen had an awareness of the constant presence of God. Her first extraordinary experience was at ten years of age, when she was flung into a construction pit by children at her school. During those lonely dark hours, she was visited by the Angel Michael who told her she would be saved, and that every difficulty she experiences is part of a larger plan for her life. From that moment on, Karen continued to find spirituality in all things. \n\nKaren was a medium by the age of 21. In 1972, after a series of synchronistic events and a chance meetings, Karen married Rav Berg. When they married, they didn’t just marry each other, they married two worlds—Karen’s world, spirituality and the mystical arts, and the Rav’s, the rites and rituals of a traditional orthodox religious practice. \n\nAlthough Kabbalah was intended for use and study by all of humankind, until their chance meeting, the wisdom of Kabbalah had been a closely guarded, perplexing study reserved for religious male scholars.\n\nIn the face of persecution and constant obstacles, Karen successfully defied thousands of years of “religious” tradition and restrictions, opening the doors for women to study Kabbalah, as well as for all people, at all levels of study. \nBorn Karen Mulnich, Berg grew up in a Jewish family, but was not around orthodox Jews until she worked at an insurance office based in New York where she met Philip Berg. She and Philip Berg later married in 1971. The couple moved to Jerusalem with Karen Berg's two daughters from a previous marriage, and had two sons, Yehuda and Michael, born in 1972 and 1973. Philip began teaching Kabbalah with Berg supporting him. They set up The Research Centre of Kabbalah in Tel Aviv. After living there for 12 years, they moved to Richmond Hill in Queens. Berg suggested opening a school so that all people could learn Kabbalah. Their house became the first American location of the Kabbalah Centre. The Bergs later moved to Beverly Hills.\n\nIn 2005, Berg wrote \"God Wears Lipstick: Kabbalah for Women\". The book covers ancient Kabalistic wisdom in a contemporary and practical way. She also wrote \"Simple Light, Wisdom from a Woman's Heart\" in 2008. \n\nBerg founded The Kabbalah Centre Charitable Foundation, Spirituality for Kids, an online program that works to help at-risk kids and teens. In 2005, she founded Kids Creating Peace, an organization that works with children in war-torn areas of the Middle East.\n\nPhilip Berg died in 2013 and after his death, Karen Berg and the couple's son Michael directed the daily activities of the Centre, Karen Berg became spiritual leader of the Kabbalah Centre. In 2016, Berg wrote \"Finding the Light Through the Darkness: Inspirational Lessons Rooted in the Bible and the Zohar\".\n\nAs the Founder of The Kabbalah Centre, Karen Berg is devoted to an enduring vision— within each person is a spark of God that can be bound together to create transcendence beyond all differences. Karen is certain that peace is possible, and foresees a world free of hatred and intolerance. She works untiringly to cultivate a new paradigm of Global Spirituality through which people from diverse beliefs and no belief can work together to bring the world to a better place through mutual respect, dignity, and love for humanity. \n\nFollowing Rav Berg’s passing in 2013, Karen continues to passionately lead and nurture the Kabbalah Centres around the world. She has expanded her efforts to bring peace to the world through spiritual unity and travels extensively. Karen meets with people daily, both personally and online, serving a worldwide community of over 300,000 souls.\n\nTo this end Karen has:\n\nKaren has four children, sixteen grandchildren, and considers everywhere there is a Kabbalah Centre her home. \n"}
{"id": "1146086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1146086", "title": "Keshava", "text": "Keshava\n\nKeshava (Sanskrit: \"\") is a name of Vishnu from the Hindu tradition. The name appears as the 23rd and 648th names in the Vishnu sahasranama of the Mahabharata. Keshava is venerated by those persons wanting to avert bad luck, or ill omens. His consort is Keerti.\n\nAccording to Adi Sankara's commentary on the Vishnu sahasranama, \"Keshava\" has the following meanings: \n\nAccording to the Padma Purana the name refers to Krishna's long, beautiful looking unshorn hair.\n\nIn the Bhagavad Gita Arjuna uses the name Keshava for Krishna a number of times, referring to him as the 'Killer of the Keshi demon': \"I am now unable to stand here any longer. I am forgetting myself, and my mind is reeling. I see only causes of misfortune, O Kesava, killer of the Keśī demon.\" (Bhagavad Gita 1.30). The demon Keshi, in the form of a horse, was sent by Kamsa to kill Krishna but was overpowered and slain (Vishnu Purana 5.15-16).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1982250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1982250", "title": "Lampadomancy", "text": "Lampadomancy\n\nLampadomancy is a form of divination using a single oil lamp or a torch flame.\n\nAs with Lychnoscopy, the diviner reads presages from the movements of the flame. An alternate method is also practiced, consisting of reading the spots of carbon deposited on paper sheets held over the flame. In yet another method, the diviner uses the lamp as a means of \"attracting spirits to the flames\", in the hope of consulting them regarding future events. In this method, usually a specially designed lamp is employed, on the belief that grotesque forms will attract the spirits.\n\nLychnomancy is a related form of divination with flames of three identical candles arranged in a triangle.\n\nLampadomancy was a popular method of divination in ancient Egypt, where diviners would perform it at midday in a darkened room illuminated by a single lamp filled with oasis oil.\n\n"}
{"id": "18533336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18533336", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Kenya", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Kenya\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Kenya is composed of 4 ecclesiastical provinces and 20 suffragan dioceses.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54555585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54555585", "title": "List of mosques in Greece", "text": "List of mosques in Greece\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Greece. \n\n\nAhmed AMEEN, Islamic Architecture in Greece: Mosques. \nForeword: Mostafa El Feki, Center for Islamic Civilization studies, Bilbliotheca Alexandrina, Alexandria 2017.\n\nhttps://www.academia.edu/34744567/Islamic_Architecture_in_Greece_Mosques\n"}
{"id": "748016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=748016", "title": "Macumba", "text": "Macumba\n\nMacumba () is a word that has a dual meaning. It can be used when describing a musical instrument or a form of witchcraft (or magic). Before it was used for a single religion Macumba was originally used to categorize all religions who practiced or believed in animistic-syncretism during the 1800s. In the 1900s Macumba became a slang term among Brazilians who aren’t affiliated with these religions. The religions that are refereed to under the umbrella term Macumba are Candomblé, Giro, and Mesa Blanca.\n\nBrazilian Macumba is the name that was used to designate all Bantu religious practices, mainly in the Brazilian state of Bahia in the nineteenth century.Later (in the 20th century), these practices were organized in what is now called Umbanda, Quimbanda and Omoloko. Macumba became common in parts of Brazil, Uruguay, Paraguay and Argentina. This word is used by some people as a pejorative word meaning black magic. The word macumba is used in Brazil, Paraguay, Argentina and Uruguay, to refer to any ritual or religion of Afro-American origin, and although its use by outsiders is usually derogatory (referring to all kinds of religion, superstitions and rituals related with luck) and it is considered offensive, among its practitioners it is not seen negatively.\nMacumba is practiced in Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay. There appears to be a relationship with the concept of the Boto (the fresh-water porpoise found in the Amazonas River and its tributaries) having shape-shifting abilities and then while in the form of a human male having sexual relations with young women. This belief was noted in several Indigenous American villages along the Amazonas (Solimões) River, Rio Negro, and Rio Japurá.\n\nMacumba is widely practiced throughout the Southern Cone. Many practitioners continue to practice their traditional religions (Christianity, Islam, Judaism, etc.) but also practice Macumba, often in violation of the tenets of their official religious affiliations but which their social environment appears to quietly accept.\n\nSome practitioners purport to use Macumba to inflict harm, financial failure, illness, death, etc. on other people for various reasons. Commonly, a Macumba spiritual leader will ask for a picture of the person on whom retribution is sought, with the name of the person written on the back of the picture. This kind of practice is often seen as sorcery or black magic.\n\nOut of all the religions grouped into Macumba only followers of Candomblé sacrifice animals during their rituals. Animals are also sacrificed during Consultas. In Candomblé blood is a very sacred and symbolic item and is used as often as possible. Blood to these followers represents life pure essence and a bond that unites them all together as family.\n\nGiro on the other hand use palm tree oil (azeite de dendé) in their rituals, this is because using blood has formed a negative stigma around Candomblé as many people associate animal sacrifice with savagery and see it as backwards. This dependence on blood and animal sacrifice has led to a loss of converts and a stigma to form around Candomblé and its followers. Since dendé is a similar hue to blood it works well as a replacement in many rituals that would require it. This also allows followers of Giro to practice without fear of being stigmatized.\n\nMesa Blanca on the other hand believes that blood and dendé can bring evil and misfortune on those who dare to use it in rituals. Dendé for example is linked to aggressive spirits of slaves, as well as other evils that the group has shunned and removed from their practices. The movement away from these two mediums can be seen as a way to distance themselves from Afro-Brazilian religions and the Macumba itself.\n\nHoney is also important to these religions as it represents the spirits of Native Indians, the use of honey can be for healing as well as reconciliation. Honey is an entirely different color than blood and Dendé so it is not associated with the evils of first two liquids.\n\nWater is the final liquid and is the main symbol for most religions other than Candomblé (which is blood). Water can be used to gaze into during consultas as it is believed looking into water can help attain wisdom or information. Water symbolizes life as it has the ability to heal but it can also represent the ability to avoid death.\n\nThe hierarchy of many of these religions is family based and can be seen by the addressing of leaders in Candomblé as \"mother\" and \"father\". Also many leaders of these religions are female as a mother figure is needed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52635335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52635335", "title": "Maria Santissima della Confusione", "text": "Maria Santissima della Confusione\n\nThe cult of Maria Santissima della Confusione began in the province of Trapani, and from here itt spread in the near province of Palermo.\nMaria Santissima della Confusione, that is venerated by the Friars Minor Capuchin of Salemi, is a wonderful painting realized in the 18th century by fra Felice da Sambuca; it is represented a Madonna in tears, with the symbols of the Passion of Jesus (the spear, the sponge with vinegar, the nails and the column of Jesus’ flagellation) around her.\n\nThe title Madonna della Confusione, referred to Mary, expresses the state of consternation, of confusion, that seizes a person when he is the victim of a strong pain. Maria, a disciple of Jesus until his death, shows u show a mother remains confused, that is afflicted and at a loss, faced with the painful death of a son.\n\nThe term Confused derives from the Latin \"cum\" and \"fixus\", then with-fixed, hanged with, but also from \"cum-flictus\", con-flicted, from which the derivation of the term afflicted, that is \"confitto\", as a person beaten vigorously, put on the cross with violence, together his Son. Even in this she identifies herself with Jesus, as she merges with Him, \"cum-fusio\", and for this reason she suffers with Him and climbs on the Cross, (juxta crucem lacrimosa, in the Stabat Mater of Jacopone da Todi).\n\nMan turns to Her in every moment of confusion, because She is the mediator between God and us, through her Son, and can help us in the difficulties of life.\n\nIt has started and spread, above all, in the friaries of Capuchins.\n\nIn Salemi the feast has taken place on the last Sunday of August for about three centuries: they carry the magnificent painting of \"Madonna della Confusione\" in procession along the town streets. Even if she is not the patroness of Salemi, she is much venerated by people.\nThe devotion to this Madonna is also very profound in Marsala, in the convent and in the Church of the Capuchins dedicated to Madonna della Confusione; the image of Our Lady of Sorrows with her head bent a little on the right, fingers crossed and eyes narrowed; in front of her, on a small table, there are the nails of crucifixion\n\nIn Partanna, in the small Church dedicated to Saint Andrew the Apostle, next to the friary of Capuchins, there was a valuable painting of Madonna della Confusione which was stolen after that 1968 Belice earthquake had damaged the small Church. The image was similar to the other icons: Our Lady has the head bent on the left, fingers crossed on her chest and a mantle dropping down.\n\nIn Alcamo, in the Church of Saint Anne, there is a painting on canvas dated 1916, made by Leonardo Mirabile from Alcamo, representing Maria Santissima della Confusione. This picture is a copy of a painting made by Giuseppe Renda, dedicated to Our Lady of Sorrows, which was kept in the Church of Saint Mary of Jesus, and stolen in 1979.\n\nThere are also icons of Madonna della Confusione in the monasteries and ex monasteries of Capuchins of Erice, Mazara del Vallo, Trapani. In the province of Palermo: at Giuliana and at \"Palermo Boccadifalco\", where the cult rose as the patron saint of pregnant women.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58969052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58969052", "title": "Minaret Khaje Alam", "text": "Minaret Khaje Alam\n\nMinaret Khaje Alam belongs to the Timurid Empire and is located at Hatef street in Isfahan. This relic was recorded in Iran’s National Hertage on 6 January 1932.\n"}
{"id": "570855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570855", "title": "Minyan", "text": "Minyan\n\nIn Judaism, a minyan ( lit. noun \"count, number\"; pl. \"minyanim\" ) is the quorum of ten Jewish adults required for certain religious obligations. In more traditional streams of Judaism only men may constitute a minyan; in more modern streams women are also counted.\n\nThe most common activity requiring a \"minyan\" is public prayer. Accordingly, the term \"minyan\" in contemporary Judaism has taken on the secondary meaning of referring to a prayer service.\n\nThe source for the requirement of \"minyan\" is recorded in the Talmud. The word \"minyan\" itself comes from the Hebrew root meaning to count or to number. The word is related to the Aramaic word \"mene\", numbered, appearing in the writing on the wall in .\n\nBabylonian Talmud\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud (Megillah 23b) derives the requirement of a \"minyan\" of ten shomer Shabbat for Kiddush Hashem and \"Devarim she-Bikdusha\", \"matters of sanctity\", by combining three scriptural verses using the rule of :\n\nThe word \"midst\" in the verse:\n\nalso appears in the verse:\n\nThe term \"congregation\" is also used in another verse that describes the ten spies who brought back a negative report of the Land of Israel:\n\nFrom this combination, the Talmud concludes that \"sanctification\" should occur in the \"midst\" of a \"congregation\" of ten.\n\nJerusalem Talmud\n\nThe Jerusalem Talmud (Megillah 4:4) offers two sources for the requirement, also using a :\n\nThe word \"congregation\" in the verse:\n\nis also used in another verse:\n\nSince the term \"congregation\" in the later verse refers to the ten spies, so too in the former verse: \"You shall be holy\" refers to a \"congregation\" of ten.\n\nThe second source is based on the term \"children of Israel\" which appears in the following two verses:\n\nJust as the \"children of Israel\" in the later verse refers to the ten sons of Jacob who descended to Egypt to obtain food during the famine, so too the former verse refers to sanctification among the “children of Israel” in the presence of ten.\n\nSome rituals require a minyan; the presence of a rabbi (a teacher, not a priest) is not essential—it is said that \"nine rabbis do not constitute a minyan, but ten cobblers can\".\n\nThe following instances which require a minyan are listed in the Mishnah in Megillah (iv. 3): \n\nOther instances which require the presence of a \"minyan\" include:\n\nWhile the required quorum for most activities requiring a quorum is usually ten, it is not always so. For example, the Passover sacrifice or Korban \"Pesach\" (from the days of the Temple in Jerusalem) must be offered before a quorum of 30. (It must be performed in front of \"kahal adat yisrael\", the assembly of the congregation of Israel. Ten are needed for the assembly, ten for the congregation, and ten for Israel.) According to some Talmudic authorities, women counted in the \"minyan\" for offering the \"Korban Pesach\" (e.g. Rav, Rav Kahana, \"Pesachim\" 79b).\n\nIt was the firm belief of the sages that wherever ten Israelites are assembled, either for worship or for the study of the Law, the Divine Presence dwells among them. In rabbinical literature, those who meet for study or prayer in smaller groups, even one who meditates or prays alone, are to be praised. However, the stress is put upon the merits and sacredness of the \"minyan\" of ten. The codifiers, such as Maimonides, his annotators, and the author of the Shulkhan Arukh, have unitedly given strength to this sentiment, and have thus, for more than a thousand years, made the daily attendance at public worship, morning and evening, to be conducted with a quorum of ten.\n\nThere is a disagreement between the medieval commentators on whether prayer with a \"minyan\" is preferable or obligatory. Rashi is of the view that an individual is obligated to pray with a \"minyan\", while Nahmanides holds that only if ten adult males are present are they obliged to recite their prayer together, but an individual is not required to seek out a \"minyan\".\n\nRashi and the Tosafot on Talmud Bavli Pesachim 46a are both of the opinion that one is required to travel the distance of 4 \"mil\" to pray with a minyan. The Mishnah Berurah writes that one who is sitting at home must travel up to one \"mil\".\n\nThere is much discussion in rabbinic literature on the matter of who is eligible to be counted in a \"minyan\". Some discussions revolve around whether or not a \"minyan\" should consist of individuals who are obligated in performance of that particular precept. Some authorities deduce who may constitute a \"minyan\" by drawing on the verses which are brought as the basis for minyan and their implication. For example, the verse, \"How long shall I bear with this evil congregation which murmur against me?\" is referring to the ten spies, a congregation comprising Jewish adult males. It is understood from this that a minyan must likewise comprise ten Jewish adult males. Other classical sources base their rulings on discussions brought in the Talmud. Contemporary rabbinical authorities deal with a plethora of questions relating to qualification for \"minyan\".\n\nBefore a boy turns thirteen, he is considered a minor in Jewish law and is not obligated in the performance of religious precepts. However, if a child is over six years of age and has adequate comprehension of the significance of the precepts, his status may change. His inclusion in \"minyan\" is thus subject of Talmudic dispute. Based on the Talmudic passage in Berachot, Rabbeinu Tam states that a minor can act as the tenth person and according to the Baal Ha-Maor, up to four minors would be permitted. Rosh explains that those who permit the inclusion of a minor maintain that it is the Divine Presence which actually constitutes the tenth member, thereby validating the \"minyan\". (This may explain why some of these authorities require that the minor represent this fact by holding a chumash.) However the majority of poskim follow the conclusion of the Ri who holds that a minor can never be counted in a \"minyan\" under any circumstances. This is the stance taken by the Shulchan Aruch, who, although acknowledging some authorities do permit the inclusion of an astute six-year-old, writes that consensus rejects this view and only males over the age of thirteen may constitute a \"minyan\". However, in extraordinary circumstances some are lenient and permit a minor over six years old holding a chumash or Sefer Torah to complete a \"minyan\".\n\nAlthough the issue of whether women are permitted to make up a \"minyan\" has been noted in early works, the matter has only come to the fore in the past few decades, a reaction to an enhanced role of women in modern society and to the demand for their inclusion in all areas of religious life.\n\nThe Talmud itself does not directly address the question of whether women may count as part of a minyan for devarim shebkdusha. Since the Talmud uses the same \"gezerah shavah\" for Kiddush Hashem as it uses for \"devarim shebkdusha\", one may expect the laws for those two cases to be the same. Many authorities are of the opinion that women are included in the \"minyan\" for Kiddush Hashem and Hillul Hashem. However, traditional codifiers generally do not include women in the \"minyan\" for \"devarim shebkdusha\".\n\nThe Talmud (Arakhin 3a) relates that women are required to recite \"zimmun\" of three participants, and Berakhot 45 says that women may recite the zimmun. However, the majority of scholars are of the opinion that ten women may not recite the additional form of \"zimun be-Shem\", which is obligatory when ten men are present. The few authorities who do permit ten women to use the \"zimmun be-Shem\" formulation explain that the necessity for ten in this case is unique and cannot be compared to other instances requiring \"minyan\". Only Rabbeinu Simcha among these authorities mentions the possibility of one woman joining with nine men to form a \"minyan\" for prayer. This isolated opinion is rejected by the codifiers. There are a number of cases, including reading of the megillah, where a limited number of authorities count women towards the minyan. However, in these cases the reason why women are counted is not because they constitute a \"congregation,\" but rather because a public audience is required.\n\nA possible reason why it is men who were obligated to form a congregation in order to convene the Divine Presence is that women were individually considered sufficiently holy and did not require the combination of a group and special prayers to achieve added holiness deficient in men. Due to the righteousness of the women in the wilderness, they did not suffer the same deadly fate as their male counterparts, and despite the spies’ negative report about the holy land, wished to enter it.\nOthers point to the sociological reality that women were traditionally expected to care for the house and children. The Jewish tradition did not require women to leave their social role to engage in public prayer.\n\nIn 1845, rabbis attending the Frankfort Synod of the emerging Reform Judaism declared that women count in a minyan, a formalization of a customary Reform practice dating back to 1811.\n\nIn 1973, the Committee on Jewish Law and Standards of Conservative Judaism voted to count men and women equally as members of a minyan. In 2002, the Committee adapted a responsum by Rabbi David Fine which provides an official religious-law foundation for women counting in a \"minyan\" and explains the current Conservative approach to the role of women in prayer. This responsum holds that, although Jewish women do not traditionally have the same obligations as men, Conservative women have, as a collective whole, voluntarily undertaken them. Because of this collective undertaking, the Fine responsum holds that Conservative women are eligible to serve as agents and decision-makers for others. The responsum also holds that traditionally-minded communities and individual women can opt out without being regarded by the Conservative movement as sinning. By adopting this responsum, the CJLS found itself in a position to provide a considered Jewish-law justification for its egalitarian practices, without having to rely on potentially unconvincing arguments, undermine the religious importance of community and clergy, ask individual women intrusive questions, repudiate the \"halakhic\" tradition, or label women following traditional practices as sinners.\n\nThe question of whether a sinner can be counted for a \"minyan\" has become much more pertinent in recent generations, where a general malaise in religious observance among the majority of Jews has occurred. The Shulchan Aruch states that though a person may be a notorious and habitual sinner and has even committed a capital offense, unless a person has been placed under a religious ban due to his sinful behaviour, he is counted among the ten. The source provided for this sentiment is from the incident with Achan who, despite having been put to death for his transgression, was still referred to as a Jew. However, the Pri Megadim explains that this is only true if he sins for self-satisfaction, but if a person sins to spite God or has openly severed their connection with the Jewish people by professing a hostile creed or by publicly desecrating the Shabbat, such a person is prohibited from constituting a minyan. Nevertheless, many contemporary authorities have been driven to adopt a lenient view in the face of widespread public non-observance of the Shabbat, on the presumption that it does not indicate a deliberate denial of faith, but is rather a result of ignorance and succumbing to the pressure of social and economic conditions.\n\nEven though Tosafot deduce from the Talmud in Sukkah 38b that wherever the verse states “children of Israel” it comes to exclude a proselyte unless there is specific clause for inclusion, here with regard to \"minyan\" the sources state that there is no reasoning to exclude a full-fledged proselyte. Since such a person is permitted to act as a prayer leader, obviously they can count towards a \"minyan\".\n\nAs long as a person is of sufficient intelligence, he can be included in the \"minyan\", even if he is unable to respond to the prayers which make the presence of ten a necessity. According to some sources, this is because as long as ten are gathered the Divine Presence descends and it is feasible to pronounce a \"Dvar she'bekedusha\". This includes someone who is in the middle of his prayers but is precluded from responding to the hazzan’s incantations and someone who is mute but can hear the prayers. (Someone who is deaf but has the ability and knows when to respond can also be included.) There is however a dispute regarding someone who is asleep or intoxicated. Such a person has sufficient intelligence, but at present can neither hear or respond. Ideally he should be woken to the extent that he is dozing, but in extraneous circumstances where it impossible to arouse him, it is permitted to include the maximum of one sleeping person in the \"minyan\". In the case of a drunkard, the accepted view is that even if he has not reached the “drunkenness of Lot”, he still cannot be included. A minimum of six of those gathered in the minyan have a duty to listen attentively and respond appropriately to the additional prayers and that at least nine are required to respond for the repetition of the \"Amidah\".\n\nIt is not just the status of the individual which dictates eligibility; the physical arrangement of the \"minyan\" is also a factor. Maimonides delineates the confines which are placed on the arrangement of the people making up a \"minyan\". Ideally all the members of the minyan should be gathered in one room. However, if they are within hearing distance of one another, it is permitted for the ten to be distributed in two adjoining rooms. Later authorities limit the extent of this opinion and rule that even if there is an opening between the two rooms, the two groups are still considered separate entities. Only in unusual circumstances is it permitted, as long as some of the men in each room can see each other.\n\nOver the last decade or so, more and more lay-led worship communities have formed that attempt to combine commitment to traditional Jewish law with a push for increased participation and recognition of the role of women. While many are simply referred to as \"independent minyanim,\" the term used by the Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance for those groups that consider themselves part of the Modern Orthodox community is \"partnership minyan.\" Many of these groups have adopted the custom initially instituted by Shira Hadasha in Jerusalem to wait for a \"ten-and-ten minyan,\" made up of ten men and ten women.\n\nShira Hadasha has based many of its decisions on the writings of rabbis like Mendel Shapiro and Daniel Sperber. Some also use the Guide for the Halakhic Minyan, a compendium of halakhic sources supporting increased participation by women in services, as a basis for discussions of practices like the ten-and-ten minyan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "330652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=330652", "title": "Mullah", "text": "Mullah\n\nMullah (; , , / \"Mollâ\", , ) is derived from the Arabic word \"mawlā\", meaning \"vicar\", \"master\" and \"guardian\". However, used ambiguously in the Quran, some publishers have described its usage as a religious title as inappropriate. The term is sometimes applied to a Muslim man or woman, educated in Islamic theology and sacred law. In large parts of the Muslim world, particularly Iran, Pakistan, Azerbaijan, Afghanistan, Eastern Arabia, Turkey and the Balkans, Central Asia, the Horn of Africa and South Asia, it is the name commonly given to local Islamic clerics or mosque leaders.\n\nThe title has also been used in some Sephardic Jewish communities to refer to the community's leadership, especially religious leadership.\n\nThe term \"mullah\" is primarily understood in the Muslim world as a term of respect for an educated religious man.\n\nIdeally, a trained mullah will have studied Islamic traditions (hadith), and Islamic law (fiqh). Such figures often have memorized the Qur'an. Uneducated villagers may frequently classify a literate Muslim with a less than complete Islamic training as their \"mullah\" or religious cleric. Mullahs with varying levels of training lead prayers in mosques, deliver religious sermons, and perform religious ceremonies such as birth rites and funeral services. They also often teach in a type of Islamic school known as a madrasah. Three kinds of knowledge are applied most frequently in interpreting Islamic texts (i.e. the Quran, Hadiths, etc.) for matters of Shariah, i.e., Islamic law.\n\nMullahs have frequently been involved in politics, but only recently have they served in positions of power, since Islamists seized power in Iran in 1979. In Syria, political militant groups supported by the West have taken root. The Taliban enforced Islamism in Afghanistan.\n\nThe term is most often applied to Shi'ite clerics, as Shi'a Islam is the predominant tradition in Iran. However, the term is very common in Urdu, spoken throughout Pakistan, and it is used throughout the Indian subcontinent for any Muslim clergy, Sunni or Shi'a. Muslim clergy in Russia and other former Soviet Republics are also referred to as mullahs, regardless of whether they are Sunni or Shi'a.\n\nThe term has also been used among Persian Jews, Bukharan Jews, Afghan Jews, and other Central Asian Jews to refer to the community's religious and/or secular leadership. In Kaifeng, China, the historic Chinese Jews who managed the synagogue were called \"mullahs\".\n\nOutside of Eastern Arabia, which has a long Shiite tradition and numerous Shiite minorities, the term is seldom used in other Arabic-speaking areas where its nearest equivalent is often \"shaykh\" (implying formal Islamic training), \"imam\" (prayer leader; not to be confused with the imams of the Shiite world), or \"ʿālim\" (\"scholar\", plural \"ʿulamāʾ\"). In the Sunni world, the concept of \"cleric\" is of limited usefulness, as authority in the religious system is relatively decentralized.\n\nThe term is frequently used in English, although English-speaking Muslim clergy rarely call themselves mullahs. It was adopted from Urdu by the British rulers of India and subsequently came into more widespread use.\n\nIt is sometimes used in a derogatory and humorous form, to mock gnostically religious men.\n\nUntil the early 20th century, the term \"mullah\" was used in Iranian hawzas (seminaries) to refer to low-level clergy who specialized in telling stories of Ashura, rather than teaching or issuing fatwas. Today, the term is sometimes used as a derogatory term for any Islamic cleric. In recent years, at least among Shia clerics, the term \"ruhani\" (spiritual) has been promoted as an alternative to mullah and \"akhoond\", free of pejorative connotations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6093672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6093672", "title": "Ne-no-kuni", "text": "Ne-no-kuni\n\nThe god Susanoo is described as the ruler of Ne-no-kuni. There are differing accounts on how he assumed this position:\n\nAccording to the \"Kojiki\" when Izanagi tasked his children with the rule over the various realms: Amaterasu got the \"Plain of the High Heaven\" (\"Takama-ga-hara\"), Tsukuyomi got the \"Dominion of the Night\" (\"Yoru-no-wosu-kuni\"), and Susanoo got the . However, Susanoo ignored this command and kept crying over the loss of his dead mother Izanami, such that his weeping lead to death and destruction. As Susanoo wished, Izanagi expelled him to be near his mother in Ne-no-kata-su-kuni. In the previous episodes about Izanami's death this land is called Yomi.\n\nThe \"Nihon Shoki\" mentions \"Ne-no-kuni\" in passing when describing an episode where Susanoo was banished from Takama-ga-hara for various evil acts he committed, and went to a place called \"(Soko-tsu-)Ne-no-kuni\".\n\nAccording to the \"Kojiki\" when Ōkuninushi visited Ne-no-kuni and insulted Susanoo he was submitted to overcome three ordeals, one being described to sleep in a house infested with snakes, centipedes and wasps. This is sometimes taken as another hint that Ne-no-kuni is a subterranean realm. One explanation of the myth contrasts the trials of Ōkuninushi to a symbolic death through rites of initiation that cause one to become reborn into a new life. In this story, death doesn't pollute, it regenerates. The land of the dead also contains the forces of life, \"tama\".\n\nThe norito is an ancient Shinto prayer asking the gods to prevent the evil beings from to do any harm. The , also short , which is performed in the great purification (\"harae\") ceremony of the sixth month locates Ne-no-kuni-Soko-no-kuni in the , i.e. the ocean.\n\nYanagita Kunio compared \"Ne no Kuni\" to the Niraikanai of the Ryukyuan religion. This paradisaical land is situated beyond the seas.\n"}
{"id": "30221292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30221292", "title": "Person of faith", "text": "Person of faith\n\nThe description person of faith (plural: people of faith) refers to any person who can be delineated or classified by an adherence to a religious tradition or doctrine, as opposed to those who do not publicly identify or in any way espouse a religious path. The term people of faith has been increasingly used in the 20th and 21st century by religious adherents in Westernized countries who are critical of a perceived increase in public disenchantment or de-emphasis upon accommodation for religious adherents, although the term itself is used more as a catch-all term which is intentionally non-denominational or non-specific to any particular religious path. A person of faith is said to belong to a faith community or faith-based community.\n\nThe term is also criticized by advocates of nontheistic positions for being inaccurate in its assumption of an underlying, unifying commonality between all religious observants - despite stark doctrinal differences and oppositional stances - simply for the purpose of reducing the influence of secular-minded individuals (similar to the term person of color as a catch-all descriptor of non-white persons, or the Islamic description of people of the Book to describe the communities of adherents to Islam, Christianity and Judaism).\n"}
{"id": "438060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=438060", "title": "Qingming Festival", "text": "Qingming Festival\n\nThe Qingming or Ching Ming festival, also known as Tomb-Sweeping Day in English (sometimes also called Chinese Memorial Day or Ancestors' Day), is a traditional Chinese festival. It falls on the first day of the fifth solar term of the traditional Chinese lunisolar calendar. This makes it the 15th day after the Spring Equinox, either 4 or 5 April in a given year. During Qingming, Chinese families visit the tombs of their ancestors to clean the gravesites, pray to their ancestors, and make ritual offerings. Offerings would typically include traditional food dishes, and the burning of joss sticks and joss paper.\n\nThe Qingming Festival has been observed by the Chinese for over 2500 years. It became a public holiday in mainland China in 2008. In Taiwan, the public holiday was in the past always observed on 5 April to honor the death of Chiang Kai-shek on that day in 1975, but with Chiang's party currently out of power, this convention is not being observed. A similar holiday is observed in the Ryukyu Islands, called \"Shīmī\" in the local language.\n\nIn mainland China, the holiday is associated with the consumption of \"qingtuan\", green dumplings made of glutinous rice and Chinese mugwort or barley grass. A similar confection called \"caozaiguo\" or \"shuchuguo\", made with Jersey cudweed, is consumed in Taiwan.\n\nThe festival originated from the Cold Food or Hanshi Festival which remembered Jie Zhitui, a nobleman of the state of Jin (modern Shanxi) during the Spring and Autumn Period. Amid the Li Ji Unrest, he followed his master Prince Chong'er in 655 to exile among the Di tribes and around China. Supposedly, he once even cut meat from his own thigh to provide his lord with soup. In 636, Duke Mu of Qin invaded Jin and enthroned Chong'er as its duke, where he was generous in rewarding those who had helped him in his time of need. Owing either to his own high-mindedness or to the duke's neglect, however, Jie was long passed over. He finally retired to the forest around Mount Mian with his elderly mother. The duke went to the forest in but could not find them. He then ordered his men to set fire to the forest in order to force Jie out. When Jie and his mother were killed instead, the duke was overcome with remorse and erected a temple in his honor. The people of Shanxi subsequently revered Jie as an immortal and avoided lighting fires for as long as a month in the depths of winter, a practice so injurious to children and the elderly that the area's rulers unsuccessfully attempted to ban it for centuries. A compromise finally developed where it was restricted to 3 days around the Qingming solar term in mid-spring.\n\nThe present importance of the holiday is credited to Emperor Xuanzong of Tang. Wealthy citizens in China were reportedly holding too many extravagant and ostentatiously expensive ceremonies in honor of their ancestors. In , Xuanzong sought to curb this practice by declaring that such respects could be formally paid only once a year, on Qingming.\n\nQingming Festival is when Chinese people traditionally visit the tombs to sweep tombstones. This tradition has been legislated by the Emperors who built majestic imperial tombstones for every dynasty. For over 5000 years, the Chinese imperials, nobility, merchants and peasantry alike have gathered together to remember the lives of the departed, to visit their tombstones to perform Confucian filial piety by tombsweeping, to visit burial grounds, graveyards or in modern urban cities, the city columbaria, to perform groundskeeping and maintenance, and to commit to pray for their ancestors in the uniquely Chinese concept of the afterlife and to offer remembrances of their ancestors to living blood relatives, their kith and kin.\n\nThe Qingming Festival commemorates the life of the departed in an elaborate set of rituals often mistranslated in the West as ancestral worship. Actually, it is a Confucian form of posthumous respect and filial piety offered to a Chinese person's ancestors, departed relatives, or parents. Not all Chinese persons will pray directly to their ancestors in ancestral spirit but almost all will observe the Qing Ming Rituals.\n\nThe young and old alike kneel down to offer prayers before tombstones of the ancestors, offer the burning of joss in both the forms of incense sticks (joss-sticks) and silver-leafed paper (joss-paper), sweep the tombs and offer food, tea, wine, chopsticks, and/or libations in memory of the ancestors. Depending on the religion of the observers, some pray to a higher deity to honour their ancestors while others may pray directly to the ancestral spirit/s.\n\nThese rites have a long tradition in Asia, especially among the imperialty who legislated these rituals into a national religion. They have been preserved especially by the peasantry and are most popular with farmers today, who believe that continued observances will ensure fruitful harvests ahead by appeasing the spirits in the other world.\n\nReligious symbols of ritual purity, such as pomegranate and willow branches, are popular at this time. Some people carry willow branches with them on Qingming or stick willow branches on their gates and/or front doors. There are similarities to palm leaves used on Palm Sundays in Christianity; both are religious rituals. Furthermore, the belief is that the willow branches will help ward off the unappeased, troubled and troubling spirits, and/or evil spirits that may be wandering in the earthly realms on Qingming.\n\nAfter gathering on Qingming to perform Confucian clan and family duties at the tombstones, graveyards or columbaria, celebrants spend the rest of the day in clan or family outings, before they start the spring plowing. They often sing and dance. Qingming is also a time when young couples traditionally start courting. Another popular thing to do is to fly kites in the shapes of animals or characters from Chinese opera. Another common practice is to carry flowers instead of burning paper, incense, or firecrackers.\nDespite having no official status, the overseas Chinese communities in Southeast Asian nations, such as those in Singapore and Malaysia, take this festival seriously and observe its traditions faithfully. Some Qingming rituals and ancestral veneration decorum observed by the overseas Chinese in Malaysia and Singapore can be dated back to Ming and Qing dynasties, as the overseas communities were not affected by the Cultural Revolution in Mainland China. Qingming in Malaysia is an elaborate family function or a clan feast (usually organized by the respective clan association) to commemorate and honour recently deceased relatives at their grave sites and distant ancestors from China at home altars, clan temples or makeshift altars in Buddhist or Taoist temples. For the overseas Chinese community, the Qingming festival is very much a family celebration and, at the same time, a family obligation. They see this festival as a time of reflection for honouring and giving thanks to their forefathers. Overseas Chinese normally visit the graves of their recently deceased relatives on the weekend nearest to the actual date. According to the ancient custom, grave site veneration is only permissible ten days before and after the Qingming Festival. If the visit is not on the actual date, normally veneration before Qingming is encouraged. The Qingming Festival in Malaysia and Singapore normally starts early in the morning by paying respect to distant ancestors from China at home altars. This is followed by visiting the graves of close relatives in the country. Some follow the concept of filial piety to the extent of visiting the graves of their ancestors in mainland China. Traditionally, the family will burn spirit money and paper replicas of material goods such as cars, homes, phones and paper servants. In Chinese culture, it is believed that people still need all of those things in the afterlife. Then family members take turns to kowtow three to nine times (depending on the family adherence to traditional values) before the tomb of the ancestors. The Kowtowing ritual in front of the grave is performed in the order of patriarchal seniority within the family. After the ancestor worship at the grave site, the whole family or the whole clan feast on the food and drink they have brought for the worship either at the site or in nearby gardens in the memorial park, signifying the family's reunion with its ancestors. Another ritual related to the festival is the cockfight, as well as being available within that historic and cultural context at Kaifeng Millennium City Park (Qingming Riverside Landscape Garden).\n\nThe holiday is often marked by people paying respects to those who are considered national or legendary heroes, or those exemplary Chinese figures who died in events considered politically sensitive. The April Fifth Movement and the Tiananmen Incident were major events in Chinese history which occurred on Qingming. After Premier Zhou Enlai died in 1976, thousands honored him during the festival to pay their respects. Many also pay respects to victims of the Tiananmen Square protests in 1989 and Zhao Ziyang.\n\nThe Qingming festival holiday has a significance in the Chinese tea culture since this specific day divides the fresh green teas by their picking dates. Green teas made from leaves picked before this date are given the prestigious 'pre-qingming' () designation which commands a much higher price tag. These teas are prized for having much lighter and subtler aromas than those picked after the festival.\n\nThe famous \"Qingming scroll\" by Zhang Zeduan is an ancient Chinese painting which portrays the scene of Kaifeng city, the capital of the Song Dynasty during a Qingming festival.\n\nQingming was frequently mentioned in Chinese literature. Among these, the most famous one is probably Du Mu's poem (simply titled \"Qingming\"):\n\nAlthough the date is not presently a holiday in Vietnam, the Qingming festival is mentioned (under the name \"Thanh Minh\") in the epic poem \"The Tale of Kieu\", when the protagonist Kieu meets a ghost of a dead old lady. The description of the scenery during this festival is one of the best-known passages of Vietnamese literature:\n\n"}
{"id": "6491275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6491275", "title": "Qisas Al-Anbiya", "text": "Qisas Al-Anbiya\n\nThe Qiṣaṣ al-'Anbiyā' () or Stories of the Prophets is any of various collections of stories adapted from the Quran and other Islamic literature, closely related to exegesis of the Qur'an. One of the best-known is a work composed by the Persian author Abū Ishāq Ibrāhīm bin Mansūr bin Khalaf of Neyshābūr (A city located in Khorasan, Northeast Iran) the 12th century (AH 5th century); another was composed by Muhammad al-Kisai in the 8th century (AH 2th century); others include the \"Ara'is al-Majalis\" by al-Tha'alabi (d. 1035, AH 427) and the \"Qisas al-Anbiya\" by Ibn Kathir (d. 1372, AH 774).\n\nBecause the lives of biblical figures — the Muslim prophets or أنبياء '\"anbiya\"' — were covered only briefly in the Qur'an, scholars, poets, historians, and storytellers felt free to elaborate, clothing the bare bones with flesh and blood. Authors of these texts drew on many traditions available to medieval Islamic civilization such as those of Asia, Africa, China, and Europe. Many of these scholars were also authors of commentaries on the Qur'an; unlike Qur'an commentaries, however, which follow the order and structure of the Qur'an itself, the Qiṣaṣ told its stories of the prophets in chronological order – which makes them similar to the Jewish and Christian versions of the Bible.\n\nThe \"Qiṣaṣ\" thus usually begins with the creation of the world and its various creatures including angels, and culminating in God's masterpiece, Adam, created by His own hand and given life from His own breath. Following the stories of the Prophet Adam and his family come the tales of Idris, Nuh, Shem, Hud, Salih, Ibrahim, Ismail and his mother Hajar, Lut, Ishaq, Jacob and Esau, Yousuf, Shuaib, Musa and his brother Aaron, Khidr, Joshua, Josephus, Eleazar, Elijah, Samuel, Saul, Dawud, Sulaiman, Yunus, Dhul-Kifl and Dhul-Qarnayn all the way up to and including Yahya and Isa son of Mariam. Sometimes the author incorporated related local folklore or oral traditions, and many of the \"Qiṣaṣ al-'Anbiyā<nowiki>\"</nowiki>\"s tales echo medieval Christian and Jewish stories.\n\nDuring the mid-16th century, several gorgeously illuminated versions of the \"Qiṣaṣ\" were created by unnamed Ottoman Empire painters. According to Milstein et al., \"iconographical study [of the texts] reveals ideological programs and cliché typical of the Ottoman polemical discourse with its Shi‘ite rival in Iran, and its Christian neighbors in the West.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "855756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855756", "title": "Randhir Singh (Sikh)", "text": "Randhir Singh (Sikh)\n\nRandhir Singh (1878–1961) was a Sikh leader who started the Gurdwara Sudhaar Movement, and founded the Akhand Kirtani Jatha.\n\nRandhir Singh was born as Basant Singh in Narangwal, Ludhiana district, Punjab on July 7, 1878 in a Sikh family. His father Natha Singh worked as a District Inspector of Schools and as a Judge in the High Court of the State of Nabha. He completed his schooling in Nabha and higher education from Government and Foreman Christian Colleges at Lahore. Singh wrote various books on Sikh theology, philosophy, and the Sikh way of life. He was charged in 1914 with waging war against the British Crown and had to undergo life-imprisonment from 1914 to 1931. He died on Vaisakhi, April 13, 1961 and his cremation took place at the lake between Gujjarwal and Narangwal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15607698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15607698", "title": "Raymond Arroyo", "text": "Raymond Arroyo\n\nRaymond Arroyo (born September 25, 1970) is a New York Times bestselling author, journalist and a producer. He is the news director and lead anchor of EWTN News, the news division of the Eternal Word Television Network. He is creator and host of the news magazine \"The World Over Live\" seen in more than 350 million households around the globe and heard on 500 AM/FM affiliates throughout the US. Arroyo is also author of the best-selling Will Wilder series (Random House/Crown) for young readers.\n\nArroyo was born in New Orleans, Louisiana. He graduated from the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University.\n\nArroyo worked at the Associated Press, the \"New York Observer\", and for the political columnist team of Evans and Novak.\n\nArroyo's biography of EWTN's founder, Mother Angelica, was a New York Times bestseller, as were each of his following books. He is also the editor of \"Mother Angelica's Little Book of Life Lessons and Everyday Spirituality \"(Doubleday), \"Mother Angelica's Private and Pithy Lessons from the Scriptures\" (Doubleday), \"The Prayers and Personal Devotions of Mother Angelica\" (Doubleday), co-author of, \"Of Thee I Zing: America's Cultural Decline from Muffin Tops to Body Shots\" (Threshold Editions) and a series of children's books; \"Will Wilder: The Relic of Perilous Falls\" and \"Will Wilder: The Lost Staff of Wonders\" (Random House/Crown). His writings have been published by \"Newsweek\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The Washington Times\", \"The Financial Times\", and \"National Catholic Register\".\n\nArroyo is best known as host of the EWTN news program \"The World Over Live\", where he routinely interviews leading figures of the day including the first and, to this date, only English language conversation ever recorded with Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, who would later become Pope Benedict XVI. Other interviews include Mel Gibson, on the set of his film \"The Passion of the Christ\", presidential candidates, Placido Domingo, and Supreme Court justices. He has been featured on \"The Today Show\", \"Good Morning America\", and \"Access Hollywood\", \"The O'Reilly Factor\", \"Erin Burnett Out Front\", \"CNN Headline News”, and other television shows.\n\nArroyo is a frequent guest and occasional substitute host of \"The Laura Ingraham Show\" on radio and \"The Ingraham Angle\" on Fox News television.\n\nArroyo resides in Northern Virginia with his wife Rebecca and their three children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10729510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10729510", "title": "Religion in Peru", "text": "Religion in Peru\n\nReligion in Peru is characterised by a diversity of religious beliefs and practices. Christianity is the predominant religion in Peru.\n\nThe Spanish conquerors not only conquered Peru militarily, but also sought to convert the indigenous populations to Christianity. Indigenous Andean religious beliefs and practices persisted, which the Catholic Church sought to suppress. Many churches were built in the colonial period, the visible manifestation of Catholicism. Some convents were also built on Inca sites. For example, in 1605, some Dominican nuns built the Convent of Santa Catalina in Cuzco atop the site of the \"acllahuasi\", once home to virginal young women dedicated to serving the ruling Inca. Another convent, the Convent of Santa Clara, was one of the first institutions the conquistadores of Cuzco built for \"Indian nobles\", the daughters of the indigenous elite whose collaboration made Spain's indirect rule over the Andes possible. At Santa Clara, Inca nobles were to be \"raised Christian and to receive 'buenas costumbres' (literally, good customs or manners), shorthand for an education in Spanishness\", which included knowledge, stitchery, and literacy. After graduating from this course in Spanish culture, charges were free to profess vows or leave the convent. Miscegenation was not an issue among Spaniards. Many prominent Spanish men lived with elite Inca women, only to marry Spanish women later in life and marry off their Andean partners to less prominent Spaniards.\n\nThe Peruvian government is closely allied with the Catholic Church. Article 50 of the Constitution recognizes the Catholic Church's role as \"an important element in the historical, cultural, and moral development of the nation.\" Catholic clergy and laypersons receive state remuneration in addition to the stipends paid to them by the Church. This applies to the country's 52 bishops, as well as to some priests whose ministries are located in towns and villages along the borders. In addition each diocese receives a monthly institutional subsidy from the Government. An agreement signed with the Vatican in 1980 grants the Catholic Church special status in Peru. The Catholic Church receives preferential treatment in education, tax benefits, immigration of religious workers, and other areas, in accordance with the agreement. So Roman Catholicism could be considered the main religion of Peru. See also the following: Roman Catholicism in Peru with Partial list of Catholic universities in Peru; and Lord of Miracles, Peruvian religious festival. \n\nAlthough the Constitution states that there is freedom of religion, the law mandates that all schools, public and private, impart religious education as part of the curriculum throughout the education process (primary and secondary). Catholicism is the only religion taught in public schools. In addition, Catholic religious symbols are found in all government buildings and public places.\n\nAccording to the 2017 Census, there were 76% of the population 12+ identifying themselves as Catholics.\n\nAt the 2017 Census there were 14.1% of the population 12+ identifying themselves as Protestants, mainly Evangelicals. In Latin America most Protestants are called Evangelicos because most of them are Evangelical Protestants, while some are also traditional Mainline Protestant. They continue to grow faster than the national growth rate.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints claims more than 578,000 members in Peru. There are currently 764 congregations that meet in Peru. \n\nThere are currently two LDS temples in Peru, one located in La Molina, Lima, and the other in Trujillo. On October 6, 2012, the LDS church announced a third temple to be built in Arequipa. At the April 3, 2016 General Conference of the LDS church, it was announced that a fourth temple would be built in Los Olivos, Lima. This second temple in Lima will make the city one of the few in the world with two temples. Peru is also home to more than 100 stakes of the LDS church.\n\nBuddhism was introduced to Peru in 1899 when the ship Sakura Maru arrived at Callao, Peru, with 790 people from Japan. Japanese, Chinese, and Korean immigration to Peru during the 19th and 20th Century brought Mahayana Buddhism to Peru, and followers of that style of Buddhism remain largely concentrated within those ethnic groups. While Mahayana remains the largest school of Buddhism in Peru, other schools such as the Diamond form have begun to spread so that Peru has more than 50,000 practicing Buddhists.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Peru begins with references to Peru in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916, with the first Bahá'ís visiting as early as 1919. A functioning community wasn't founded in Peru until the 1930s with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States which progressed into finding national Peruvian converts and achieved an independent national community in 1961. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 41,000 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nThe statistics for Islam in Peru estimate a total Muslim population of 5,000, largely based in the capital of Lima, Peru; a number which has remained static since 1980.\n\nSeax-Wica was introduced to Peru by Seax Gesith Ariel Phoenice, Witan of the Mimir's Well Seax Coven, Perú in 2001. Other covens were subsequently founded in Arequipa and Tacna.\n"}
{"id": "54711371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54711371", "title": "Secularism in Albania", "text": "Secularism in Albania\n\nAlbania has been a secular state since its founding in 1912, despite various changes in political systems. During the 20th century after Independence (1912) the democratic, monarchic and later the totalitarian communist regimes followed a systematic secularisation of the nation and the national culture. The Albanian understanding of secularism has strong influences from the French “Laicité”.\n\nCurrently Albania is a secular parliamentary republic, in which the state guarantees freedom of belief. The constitution recognizes the equality of religious communities and the state is neutral in the questions of faith.\n\nDuring Ottoman era, Albanians were divided by religion in the Millet system in which the Muslims should use Sharia while the Christians would use Canon Law. Albanian nationalism as it emerged wanted to overcome the religious divisions among Albanians between members of the local Sunni Muslim, Orthodox Christian, Bektashi Muslim and Roman Catholic Christian communities since the Ottomans would use religion to divide them. Albanian nationalists argued that divisive sectarian religious fanaticism was alien to Albanian culture, and propagated what some historians refer to as a \"'civic religion' of Albanianism\". Pashko Vasa's famous poem \"O moj Shqypni\" told Albanians to \"swear an oath not to mind [lit. \"look to\"] church or mosque\" because \"the faith of the Albanian is Albanianism\" ( or in ).\n\nSami Frashëri in his 1899 work, \"Shqipëria ç'ka qenë, ç'është dhe ç'do të bëhet\", envisioned an Albania that would have no official religion and where education would be secular.\n\nAfter Albania became Independent in 1912, the government decided that the old Ottoman laws would still be in use until the government would pass new laws. But it was decided that Kadis would only handle cases related to religion, while the civil cases would proceed but by state courts. The Albanian Constitution of 1920 had no official religion and the separation of between the state and the religious communities was in the framework of the freedom of religion.\n\nIn 1924 the government led by Ahmet Zogolli (later King Zog) passed a decree in which the religious communities of Albania would be granted a special status that gave the state the right to monitor the ban of religious political activities. They would also have no jurisdiction in the Albanian state, no subsidies or relations with outside organisations or persons.\n\nIn 1928, a new constitution was put in force which proclaimed King Zog and abolished Islamic law, Canon Law and the Albanian customary law, adopting in their place a civil code based on the Swiss one, as Ataturk's Turkey had done in the same decade. The new constitution declared:\n\nIn a 1929 congress, the Muslim community, under pressure from the government, decreed that only Albanian would be the language of religion and that most of the mosques would be closed. \n\nIn 1930 the Albanian Ministry of Education passed a decree which forces religious communities to finance their own religious schools and lessons. The law hit the Muslim community hard because they could not finance them, and as a result of it in 1938 there were only 2-3 madrasas left in all of Albania.\n\nFrom 1933 until 1936 all private schools were banned, which in practice meant that Catholic schools could not operate in Albania. The government of Zog was forced to backtrack after Italian and international pressure.\n\nThe relations with the state and the religious communities improved after the 1939 occupation, since both the Italians and the Germans wanted to have good relations with the religious communities of Albania. During the occupation a limited number of religious lessons were maintained.\n\nDuring the communist era, Albania transitioned from a simple secular state to, in 1967, an entity upholding state atheism by which all public practice of religion was banned, although some private practice survived. Enver Hoxha exploited Pashko Vasa's \"O moj Shqypni\" and implemented its stanza \"the faith of the Albanians is Albanianism\" literally as state policy. The communist regime proclaimed that the only religion of the Albanians was \"Albanianism\".\n\nThe Agrarian Reform Law of August 1946 nationalized most property of religious institutions, including the estates of monasteries, orders, and dioceses. Many clergy and believers were tried, tortured, and executed, and all foreign Roman Catholic priests, monks, and nuns were expelled. Religious communities or branches that had their headquarters outside the country, such as the Jesuit and Franciscan orders, were henceforth ordered to terminate their activities in Albania.\n\nReligious institutions were forbidden to have anything to do with the education of the young, because that had been made the exclusive province of the state. All religious communities were prohibited from owning real estate and from operating philanthropic and welfare institutions and hospitals.\nAlthough there were tactical variations in First Secretary of the Communist Party Enver Hoxha's approach to each of the major denominations, his overarching objective was the eventual destruction of all organized religion in Albania. Between 1945 and 1953, the number of priests was reduced drastically and the number of Roman Catholic churches was decreased from 253 to 100, and all Catholics were stigmatized as fascists.\n\nBeginning in 1967 the Albanian authorities began a violent campaign to try to eliminate religious life in Albania. Despite complaints, even by Party of Labour of Albania members, all churches, mosques, tekkes, monasteries, and other religious institutions were either closed down or converted into warehouses, gymnasiums, or workshops by the end of 1967. By May 1967, religious institutions had been forced to relinquish all 2,169 churches, mosques, cloisters, and shrines in Albania, many of which were converted into cultural centres for young people. As the literary monthly Nëndori reported the event, the youth had thus \"created the first atheist nation in the world.\" A major center for anti-religious propaganda was the National Museum of Atheism () in Shkodër, the city viewed by the government as the most religiously conservative.\n\nAfter the death of Enver Hoxha in 1985, his successor, Ramiz Alia, adopted a relatively tolerant stance toward religious practice, referring to it as \"a personal and family matter.\" Émigré clergymen were permitted to reenter the country in 1988 and officiate at religious services. Mother Teresa, an ethnic Albanian, visited Tirana in 1989, where she was received by the foreign minister and by Hoxha's widow. In December 1990, the ban on religious observance was officially lifted, in time to allow thousands of Christians to attend Christmas services.\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respects this right. There is no official religion and all religions are equal; however, the predominant religious communities (Sunni Muslim, Bektashi, Orthodox, and Catholic) enjoy a greater degree of official recognition (e.g., national holidays) and social status based on their historical presence in the country.\n\nThe current Albanian constitution (from 1998) stipulates that:\n\n\nGenerally in Albanian society secularism is considered very important and the guarantor of religious tolerance and coexistence. However, there have been public debates about its scope and how encompassing it should be.\n\nThe Albanian government in 2011 wanted to pass a new education law that would prohibit religious symbols in the schools. This promoted new debates about the secularity of education and about possible religious discrimination since they could ban the hijab. The government removed the part that would ban religious symbols in the new law after protest from the religious communities.\n\nIn a 2011 Ipsos poll in Albania, 53.6% of those who responded \"fully supported\" a ban on religious symbols in public schools, while 20.7% supported it to \"some extent\" and 21.5% were opposed.\n\nThe Ministry of Education asserts that public schools in the country are secular and that the law prohibits ideological and religious indoctrination. Religion generally is not taught in public schools but there have been attempts to include religion in education.\n\nIn 2012 the religious communities proposed an inclusion of a subject about \"Religious culture\" in pre-university education and they gained the support the then minister of education, Myqerem Tafaj. This incited strong debates about the nature of subject, with questions regarding whether it was permissible by the constitution and what impact it could have.\n\nIn 2016 the government of Edi Rama proposed to have lessons about \"History of Religion\" which according to the Education Minister, Lindita Nikolla \"would not entail religious proselytizing\". A pilot project about this new religious school subject started being implemented in the second semester of 2016-2017 in some schools for 6th and 10th graders.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7734357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7734357", "title": "Six of Swords", "text": "Six of Swords\n\nSix of Swords is a card used in Latin suited playing cards which include tarot decks. It is part of what tarot card readers call the \"Minor Arcana\"\n\nTarot cards are used throughout much of Europe to play tarot card games.\n\nIn English-speaking countries, where the games are largely unknown, Tarot cards came to be utilized primarily for divinatory purposes.\n\nThe card is sometimes seen as depicting the Slough of Despond from The Pilgrim's Progress.\nUpright it can mean: gradual change, movement, or travel away from difficulty or imminent danger; the solution of current problems; long journeys and passage from pain; or obstacles which are overcome. It may also be a suggestion of interpenetrating worlds, and changing channels from one set of perceptions to another.\n"}
{"id": "9038287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9038287", "title": "Temple of Bel", "text": "Temple of Bel\n\nThe Temple of Bel (), sometimes also referred to as the \"Temple of Baal\", was an ancient temple located in Palmyra, Syria. The temple, consecrated to the Mesopotamian god Bel, worshipped at Palmyra in triad with the lunar god Aglibol and the sun god Yarhibol, formed the center of religious life in Palmyra and was dedicated in 32 AD. The temple would have been closed during the persecution of pagans in the late Roman Empire in a campaign against the temples of the East made by Maternus Cynegius, Praetorian Prefect of Oriens, between 25 May 385 to 19 March 388. Its ruins were considered among the best preserved at Palmyra, until they were further destroyed by the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria in August 2015. The arched main entrance into the temple is still intact, as well as its exterior walls and fortified gate.\n\nThe temple was built on a tell with stratification indicating human occupation that goes back to the third millennium BC. The area was occupied in pre-Roman periods with a former temple that is usually referred to as \"the first temple of Bel\" and \"the Hellenistic temple\". The walls of the temenos and propylaea were constructed in the late first and the first half of the second century AD. The names of three Greeks who worked on the construction of the temple of Bel are known through inscriptions, including a probably Greek architect named Alexandras (). However, many Palmyrenes adopted Greco-Roman names and native citizens with the name Alexander are attested in the city.\n\nThe Temple of Bel was converted into a Christian church during the Byzantine Era. Parts of the structure were modified by Arabs in 1132 which preserved the structure and converted the Temple into a mosque. The enormous temple courtyard (approx. 200 x 200 meters) held mud-brick houses among the ruins, and served as a fortified citadel for the village of Palmyra (known as Tadmur during the 1100s). The mosque in the temple proper and the dwellings remained in use until the 1920s when Franco-Syrian archaeological missions cleared the temple grounds of its postclassical elements. Most of the Corinthian columns of the inner colonnades still showed pedestals where the statues of the benefactors stood. The temple was aligned along the eastern end of the Great Colonnade at Palmyra.\n\nThe temple showed a remarkable synthesis of ancient Near Eastern and Greco-Roman architecture. The temple remains lay inside a large precinct lined by porticos. It had a rectangular shape and was oriented north-south. It was based on a paved court surrounded by a massive long wall with a propylaeum. On a podium in the middle of the court was the actual temple building. The cella was entirely surrounded by a prostyle of Corinthian columns, only interrupted on the long side by an entrance gate with large steps leading from the court. The cella was unique in the fact that it had two inner sanctuaries, the north and south adytons, dedicated as the shrines of Bel and other local deities. The northern chamber was known for a bas-relief carving of the seven planets known to the ancients surrounded by the twelve signs of the Zodiac and the carvings of a procession of camels and veiled women. The cella was lit by two pairs of windows cut high in the two long walls. In three corners of the building stairwells could be found that led up to rooftop terraces.\n\nIn the court there were the remains of a basin, an altar, a dining hall, and a building with niches. And in the northwest corner lay a ramp along which sacrificial animals were led into the temple area. There were three monumental gateways, of which the entry was through the west gate. These were modified by the Arabs in 1132 when they erected a bastion, and the temple was converted into a mosque, which preserved it from further dilapidation.\n\nSyria's Director of Antiquities Maamoun Abdul Karim stated that ISIL was looking for treasures and \"stores of gold\" in the city.\nOn 30 August 2015, the Associated Press reported that ISIL had partially demolished the temple by explosives, citing eyewitness accounts. The bricks and columns were reported as lying on the ground and only one wall was reported as remaining, according to a Palmyra resident. The damage was also attested by the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights. \n\nSyria's antiquities chief Maamoun Abdulkarim later stated that although there was an explosion within the temple's perimeter, \"the basic structure is still standing\". However, these reports were proved to be incorrect. \n\nOn August 31, 2015 the United Nations confirmed the temple's destruction after reviewing satellite imagery, \"We can confirm destruction of the main building of the Temple of Bel as well as a row of columns in its immediate vicinity\" reported by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR). The BBC issued a video report showing the satellite images and the destruction described by Einar Bjorgo, manager of UN Satellite Imaging (UNOSAT UNITAR).\n\nThe main entrance arch survived the destruction of the temple. The Institute for Digital Archaeology proposed that replicas of this arch be installed in Trafalgar Square, London and Times Square, New York City. It was later decided that instead of the temple's main entrance, the replica would be of part of the Monumental Arch.\n\nFollowing the recapture of Palmyra by the Syrian Army in March 2016, director of antiquities Maamoun Abdelkarim stated that the Temple of Bel, along with the Temple of Baalshamin and the Monumental Arch, will be rebuilt using the surviving remains (anastylosis). ISIL recaptured the city on 11 December, but the Syrian Army retook it on 2 March 2017.\n\nIn July 2017, the French company \"Art Graphique et Patrimoine\" travelled to Palmyra and scanned the Temple's rubble in order to create a plan for its restoration. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26542713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26542713", "title": "Treatise on the Gods", "text": "Treatise on the Gods\n\nTreatise on the Gods (1930) is H. L. Mencken's survey of the history and philosophy of religion, and was intended as an unofficial companion volume to his Treatise on Right and Wrong (1934). The first and second printings were sold out before publication, and eight more printings followed. Its first edition received a major 5-column review in the \"New York Times\", written by one P.W. Wilson; and the Marxist literary critic Granville Hicks called it \"the best popular account we have of the origin and nature of religion.\" However, the Protestant theologian Reinhold Niebuhr, writing in the \"Atlantic Monthly\", claimed that \"It is only in dealing with moral and social issues that [Mencken] achieves the heights of complete detachment, and in this case the detachment is that of a cynic rather than that of a scientist.\" By the end of its first year \"Treatise\" had sold thirteen thousand copies. By 1940 its popularity had waned, and although it went temporarily out of print in 1945, Mencken considered it \"my best book, and by far.\" At the request of its original publisher Alfred A Knopf, Mencken wrote a revised edition (1946), eliminating (among other changes) a controversial quote about Jews:\n\nA year after publication the \"New York Times\" published another review, this one by Philip Wylie and accompanied by a caricature of Mencken by Covarrubias. Wylie referred to the book as a \"tourbillon by the Burgrave of Baltimore\". Two more editions of the book followed, in 1997 and 2006.\n"}
{"id": "93713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93713", "title": "Wyandot religion", "text": "Wyandot religion\n\nThe Wyandot (sometimes formerly referred to as the Huron) are a First Nations/Native American people originally from Ontario, Canada, and surrounding areas.\n\nThe shamans of a Wyandot tribe were called Arendiwane (or Arendi wane, Orendi wane).\n\nAccording to Wyandot mythology, \"Iosheka\" created the first man and woman and taught them many skills, including all their religious ceremonies and rituals, the ability to fight evil spirits, healing, and the use of the sacrament of tobacco.\n\n\"(See also Iroquois mythology)\"\n"}
