{"id": "52641149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52641149", "title": "2016 Irkutsk mass methanol poisoning", "text": "2016 Irkutsk mass methanol poisoning\n\nIn December 2016, 78 people died in a mass methanol poisoning in Irkutsk, one of the largest cities in Siberia, Russia. Precipitated by drinking counterfeit surrogate alcohol, the death toll led the Associated Press news agency to call it \"unprecedented in its scale\".\n\nWhile Russia is one of the highest consumers of alcohol per capita in the world, the use of non-traditional surrogate alcohols rapidly rose in the 2010s due to ongoing economic difficulties in Russia. With a price far below that of government-regulated vodka, surrogates reached an estimated height of twenty percent of the country's alcohol consumption by 2016. These products were often nearly pure alcohol that could be diluted to a rough approximation of vodka, and were frequently available at all hours via strategically placed vending machines. In the Irkutsk incident, the victims drank scented bath lotion that was mislabeled as containing drinkable ethanol.\n\nIn the aftermath of the poisoning, regulations on products being used as surrogate alcohols were tightened around the country. Politicians announced a temporary ban on non-food items with more than 25 percent alcohol, which was extended several times.\n\nIn the 2010s, Russia's economy suffered from a financial crisis, depressed oil prices, and international sanctions put into place during the Ukrainian crisis. With less disposable income to spend, citizens were forced to take drastic measures. In 2017, for instance, approximately half of the country's population was growing fruits and vegetables to supplement their diet, caused in part by a doubling in food prices in the preceding two years.\n\nFor alcohol, these citizens—already one of the highest consumers per capita in the world—turned to surrogates, a cheaper but unregulated segment of the alcohol market. Russia's deputy prime minister remarked that such non-traditional alcohol made up twenty percent of the total consumed in the country, a figure backed up by independent reporting from the \"Moscow Times\", which noted that the total was still growing. Such a large consumption of unregulated alcohol led to a \"regular occurrence\" of alcohol poisonings, but the death toll in this single incident was far higher than the norm.\n\nThe hawthorn-scented bath lotion, or \"boyaryshnik\", that caused the mass methanol poisoning was purchased as a drink because of its low price amid poor economic conditions—such liquids were not subject to the alcohol excise tax, which had been increased as part of an anti-alcohol effort in 2009, or other restrictions placed in recent years to help curb alcohol consumption in the country. Although the bottles are typically half the size of traditional vodka, their alcohol content is such that they can be diluted into a strength similar to vodka. Moreover, they were often available from vending machines at any time of the night, while government-regulated liquor could only be sold within legally defined hours. The machines were often deliberately placed near poorer areas of Russian cities, where the product would be appealing to those seeking a cheaper alternative to regular alcohol. \"Everybody knew that it was not bath oil,\" one individual told \"The New York Times\" after the poisoning. \"That label was just meant to fend off the inspectors.\"\n\nThe fatal batch of lotion involved in this mass poisoning was made with methanol (methyl alcohol, wood alcohol, CHOH), which is poisonous to the central nervous system and other parts of the body. Methanol is cheaper than ethanol (ethyl alcohol, grain alcohol, CHCHOH), the alcohol found in vodka and other alcoholic drinks. The two alcohols are similar in many respects and cannot readily be distinguished. The contents differed from the labels on the bottles, which indicated that they contained ethanol—specifically, \"93 percent of ethyl alcohol, hawthorn extract, lemon oil, diethyl phthalate and glycerol\".\n\nAccording to early reports, a total of 57 people were hospitalized, with 49 dying. The victims were described as being poor residents of the Novo-Lenino neighborhood in Irkutsk, all between the ages of 35 and 50. Subsequent reports increased the number affected: first to 55 deaths (with a total of 94 affected), then 62 (with 107 affected), 77 (number of affected not given), and finally down to 74. The other three had drank too much regular (ethyl) alcohol. A total of 123 people were hospitalized. About a third of them were found in their homes, having died before being able to call for an ambulance. Of the remainder, a problem in attempting to treat them was that fomepizole, a methanol antidote, is not certified for use in Russia and is therefore not available in the country's hospitals. Overall, the victims included a doctor, teachers, nurses, and drivers; \"The New York Times\" described the majority as holding \"steady if low-paying jobs.\"\n\nTwenty-three people involved in the production of the lotion were arrested by Russian authorities, many of which were local vendors who sold the product, with one senior regional government official for the greater Siberian region being charged with negligence. About of remaining counterfeit lotion were seized from the underground facility where it had been produced, and a few days later of methanol-containing liquid was seized from a warehouse in Irkutsk. A further five people were arrested in January 2017, charged with selling and publicizing surrogate alcohol.\n\nAfter the incident, a spokesperson for Russian president Vladimir Putin called it a \"terrible tragedy\", blaming it on a failing of \"supervisory bodies\": \"What happened in Irkutsk was a tremendous tragedy. Words fail me. Certainly this was an outrage because the inspectors and other agencies were supposed to prevent it, and didn't do so.\" Dmitry Medvedev, the prime minister, called for a ban on non-traditional alcoholic liquids like the bath lotion, stating that \"it's an outrage, and we need to put an end to this\". Days later, the Russian news agency Interfax reported that Putin planned to lower taxes on alcohol in an effort to curb the use of unsafe alcohol substitutes, requiring officials to present a plan by 31 March 2017.\n\nOn 22 December, Putin announced that regulations on products with more than 25 percent alcohol would be tightened, and punishments would be increased for those who break manufacturing and distribution laws related to them. In addition, deputy prime minister Alexander Khloponin publicly supported tightening access to \"medications\" like \"boyaryshnik\" through requiring pharmaceutical prescriptions.\n\nOn the following day, Medvedev ordered Russia's government agency devoted to consumer protection, Rospotrebnadzor, to ban all sales of non-food items with more than 25 percent alcohol. Their 30-day order came into effect on 26 December and was scheduled to run for one month before being extended for a further 60 days in January, March, and July; the restrictions did not cover perfumes and glass-cleaning products. Further restrictions were considered, with one top health official announcing that a state monopoly may be imposed on Russia's perfume and pharmaceutical industries. In the end, Russia amended its legal code to strengthen punishments for illegally producing and selling alcohol, banning the kind of alcoholic vending machines through which the Irkutsk bath lotion was sold, and prohibiting online advertisements of alcoholic retailers. The latter's legalization had been mooted prior to the poisoning.\n\nIndividuals interviewed by a \"New York Times\" reporter in February 2017 were skeptical that any measures would be successful in significantly impacting illegal alcohol sales, given that it was such a high percentage of the total market for alcohol. Still, Rospotrebnadzor announced at the end of January that the country had seen its first decline in monthly alcohol poisoning deaths in five years.\n\n"}
{"id": "50558307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50558307", "title": "Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) Movement", "text": "Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) Movement\n\nThe Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACEs) Movement is a set of grassroots initiatives developing interventions and \"tests of change\" to reduce the incidence and societal effects of Adverse Childhood Experiences and to promote healing from these experiences.\n\nThe ACEs Movement arose out of the need for a bidirectional effort to create a public health change, with both individuals and institutions/ government systems. The individual is essential, because change is on the individual level is self-directed. The institutions and government systems engagement is essential, because without the structure surrounding individuals changing, the very systems that are intended to help, can perpetuate the cycle of trauma.\n\nDr. Sandra Bloom's book \"Destroying Sanctuary\" states in its introduction that 17th century philosophers like Descartes took apart the person and \"turned over the body to physicians and the mind to philosophers and clergy,\" and in the ACEs movement society is now trying to bring them back together.\n\nACE Nashville uses the acronym to stand for All Children Excel and is trying to raise awareness about adverse childhood experiences in Nashville, Tennessee.\n"}
{"id": "8346804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8346804", "title": "Albert Hyzler", "text": "Albert Hyzler\n\nAlbert Victor Hyzler (20 November 1916 – 26 October 1993) was the son of Professor Giuseppe Hyzler, a physician, and the former Marietta Muscat Fenech. Elected to Parliament in 1947 in the interest of the Democratic Action Party led by his father, he later joined the Labour Party and was elected in every election he contested until 1976 when he retired from politics. He was Cabinet Minister between 1955 and 1958 and 1971 - 1976. He served as the Acting President of Malta from 27 December 1981 to 15 February 1982. He was married to Marie Rose (née Petrocochino). \n"}
{"id": "9935153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9935153", "title": "Amateur Sports Act of 1978", "text": "Amateur Sports Act of 1978\n\nThe Amateur Sports Act of 1978, signed by President Jimmy Carter, established the United States Olympic Committee and provides for national governing bodies for each Olympic sport. The Act provides important legal protection for individual athletes.\n\nPrior to the adoption of the Act in 1978, the Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) represented the United States on international competition matters and regulated amateur sports generally. The AAU had adopted arbitrary rules which prohibited women from participating in running events and prohibited any runner who had raced in the same event as a runner with a shoe-company sponsorship. Congress adopted the Act in response to criticisms of the AAU, effectively removing that organization from any governance role.\n\nThe AAU now continues as a voluntary organization largely promoting youth sports. While it still has a major role in promoting track, it is now best known for sponsoring youth basketball competitions.\n\nThe Act charters the U.S. Olympic Committee, which in turn can charter a national governing body (NGB) for each sport, such as USA Swimming, the United States Fencing Association, the United States Ski Team, USA Track & Field, USA Shooting, or the U.S. Figure Skating. Each NGB in turn establishes the rules for selecting the United States Olympic Team and promotes amateur competition in that sport.\n\nThe Act requires that active athletes (defined as amateur athletes who have represented the United States in international amateur competition within the last ten years) must hold 20 percent of the voting power of any board or committee in an NGB. The Act also provides athletes with due process and appeal rights concerning eligibility disputes. \n\nThe Act gives exclusive rights of usage of the words \"Olympic\" and \"Olympiad\" to the Olympic Committee. The Committee used this act to sue other organizations which used this term \"Olympics\", such as the Gay Olympics.\n\nThe Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur Sports Act is a United States law (codified at 36 U.S.C. Sec. 220501 et seq. of the United States Code) that charters and grants monopoly status to the United States Olympic Committee, and specifies requirements for its member national governing bodies for individual sports. \n\nThe current version of the Act was sponsored by Ted Stevens, then–Senator from Alaska, and adopted in 1998. It is a revision of the previous Amateur Sports Act of 1978 that reflects changes such as the fact that amateurism is no longer a requirement for competing in most international sports, expansion of the USOC's role to include the Paralympic Games, increased athlete representation, and protection of the USOC against lawsuits involving athletes' right to participate in the Olympic Games.\n\nThe United States Olympic Committee has used the law to force the \"Gay Olympics\" to change their name to the Gay Games. The organization has threatened to use the law against the \"Redneck Olympics,\" though it has given special dispensation to the Special Olympics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1628684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1628684", "title": "Audrey Callaghan", "text": "Audrey Callaghan\n\nAudrey Elizabeth Callaghan, Baroness Callaghan of Cardiff (' Moulton; 28 July 1915 – 15 March 2005) was the wife of James Callaghan, who served in each of the Great Offices of State including that of Prime Minister. She once served as a Labour councillor and later became a campaigner and fundraiser for children's health and welfare.\n\nShe was born in Maidstone, Kent, where her father was a director of the Lead Wool Company, a tool company. She would chair the Maidstone Labour Party and Fabian Society. She joined the Labour Party while in her teens and met her future husband in the early 1930s at the Baptist church Sunday school where they both worked, then at the Labour Party, but they did not marry until 28 July 1938. They honeymooned in Paris and Chamonix and then returned to rent a house in Norwood.\n\nCallaghan was educated at Maidstone Grammar School for Girls, then studied cookery at Battersea College of Domestic Science. She worked as a dietician at an antenatal clinic in Greenwich during the Second World War, a young mother herself. At the same time, she studied economics at a University of London extension course in Eltham, with future Labour Party leader Hugh Gaitskell as tutor. She made a special study of malnutrition in children and its remedies.\n\nHer husband James had been elected a Member of Parliament for Cardiff in 1945 and she was at his side throughout his career. She was somewhat derided, described as \"the Yorkshire Pudding\", ostensibly for her skill in cooking, but also as a reference to her perceived poor dress sense and mildly disorganised appearance. She was ridiculed for her hobby of keeping pigs. She remained very private and shunned the limelight. However, she was engaged with her husband's jobs and was said to be instrumental in dissuading him from resignation after the 1967 devaluation of the pound.\n\nIn 1959, Audrey was elected as the Labour member for Lewisham for the London County Council. She took a special interest in children's homes and the Children's Committee. She was an alderman of the Greater London Council from 1964 and became chairman of Lewisham Council's children's committee, where she was also an alderman, when the GLC was abolished.\n\nIn 1969 Callaghan became the chair of the board of governors of Great Ormond Street Hospital for Sick Children. She continued raising funds for the hospital for the next thirty years, most notably securing an extension of copyright on \"Peter Pan\" for the hospital by a Lords amendment moved by her husband.\n\nIn 1987, when James was created Baron Callaghan of Cardiff, she became Lady Callaghan. She herself refused a damehood from Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. They retired to a farm in Ringmer, East Sussex, where she kept pigs and he kept cows and sheep, and grew barley. Along with her husband she supported causes relating to the University College of Swansea, of which James Callaghan was president.\n\nDuring her eighties, Callaghan developed Alzheimer's disease. In July 2001, when her condition had deteriorated, she entered a care home run by Catholic nuns, where her husband visited her every day until her death in March 2005, by which time they had been married for 66 years and together for well over 70. He died just eleven days after her death just a day shy of his 93rd birthday.\n\nShe had three children: Margaret Jay, Baroness Jay of Paddington; Julia and Michael.\n\n"}
{"id": "26629938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26629938", "title": "Axillary lymphadenopathy", "text": "Axillary lymphadenopathy\n\nAxillary lymphadenopathy is lymphadenopathy of the axillary lymph nodes.\n\n\nTo diagnose this condition, scans or other imaging tests are used. Enlarged nodes in the vicinity of cancer areas could potentially contain cancer.\nProbable patients are observed for few weeks until the cause of lymphadenopathy becomes obvious and they are instructed to return to the doctor if there is increase in node size. Biopsy should be performed in case tests suggest malignancy.\n"}
{"id": "56209411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56209411", "title": "Baruch Padeh Medical Center", "text": "Baruch Padeh Medical Center\n\nThe Baruch Padeh Medical Center (, \"Beit Holim Barukh Padeh\"), formerly known as the Poriya Medical Center, is a general hospital located in the region of Galilee, in the state of Israel, it was established in 1955 and it replaced the Schweitzer Hospital and the Maternity Hospital of the Scottish Church in Tiberias.\n\n"}
{"id": "5527767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5527767", "title": "Benjamin Bell", "text": "Benjamin Bell\n\nBenjamin Bell of Hunthill FRSE FRCSEd (6 September 1749 – 5 April 1806) is considered to be the first Scottish scientific surgeon. He is commonly described as the father of the Edinburgh school of surgery, or the first of the Edinburgh scientific surgeons. He published medical works of significance, notably his surgical textbook \"A System of Surgery\" which became a best seller throughout Europe and in America. His treatise on venereal disease was the first to suggest that syphilis and gonorrhea were different diseases, a hypothesis which was not accepted by mainstream medicine until many decades later. Bell's main contribution to surgical practice was his adage 'save skin', which led to improved rates of wound healing in operations like mastectomy and limb amputation. He was also an early advocate of routine pain relief in surgery.\n\nBenjamin Bell was born in Dumfries on 6 September 1749, the eldest surviving child in a family of 15 children. His father George Bell (1722–1813) farmed at Woodhouselees, a mile south of the village of Canonbie in Dumfriesshire. In addition to farming, George Bell was involved in a series of business ventures which met with mixed success. This background of modest wealth was to prove important for Benjamin in later life, allowing him to visit surgeons in London and Paris and enabling him to take time away from his surgical practice to write a major textbook. The family tradition in agriculture was to re-emerge towards the end of his life. They owned Blackett House in Middlebie Parish (Dumfriesshire), which was later sold to fund the education of the family. Benjamin's early education was at Dumfries Grammar school.\n\nHe became an apprentice to James Hill (1703-1776), a surgeon in Dumfries, before moving to Edinburgh in 1766 to study medicine at Edinburgh University under the tutelage of some of the most inspiring medical teachers of the day, including Alexander Monro (Secundus; 1733–1817) the anatomist, Joseph Black (1728–99) the chemist and John Hope (1725–86) the botanist. In November 1767 he was appointed dresser in the surgical wards of the Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, and surgeons' clerk 2 years later. He visited London and Paris, writing to his father that had he been planning a career as a physician he would have been happy to stay in Edinburgh, \"but for a surgeon I assure you Edinburgh comes greatly short of either Paris or London and for that reason Dr. Monro and any others that I have spoken to here upon the subject approve of the scheme [the Paris visit] very much\". In 1770 after passing the necessary examinations, he was elected a freeman surgeon-apothecary of the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh later the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. \nIn 1772 Bell was in London from where he wrote to Dr. Cullen thanking him for his letter of introduction to John Hunter (1728–1793) whom he described as \"the most agreeable and at the same time the most useful acquaintance I ever met with.\" He also visited and observed the London surgeon Percivall Pott (1714–1788) to whom he would later dedicate his treatise on ulcers. Bell's interest in science is evident from his description of a lecture which he attended at the Royal Society given by Joseph Priestley. Priestley's suggestion that atmospheric air contained fixed air (carbon dioxide) and dephlogisticated air (oxygen) clearly made an impression on Bell who noted from the lecture that \"air can be spoiled by one or more animals breathing it in a confined space and become unfit for purposes of life\"\n\nOn return to Edinburgh he set up in surgical practice and within a year, at the age of 24, was elected one of four attendant surgeons to the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh. Surgeons attended in rotation and Bell managed to remain a surgeon to the Infirmary for eighteen years, an unusually long period. This may have been because of his lifelong friendship with James Gregory, the Professor of Physic, and the most influential member of the Infirmary Board of Management. In 1800 there was pressure from younger members of the College of Surgeons to change the system of appointment of surgeons to the Infirmary, making shorter appointments so that more junior surgeons might gain Infirmary experience. At that time, now well established in practice, Bell was content to step down, but he wrote to the College setting out the case for 'permanent appointments' to the Infirmary rotation, a view which had been also promoted by Gregory. Of the 23 members of the College of Surgeons asked to vote on the matter, not one supported Bell's proposal. John Bell (1763–1820), a successful teacher of anatomy in his own extramural school and an accomplished Edinburgh surgeon (but not related to Benjamin Bell), failed to gain appointment to the Infirmary rota, and began to campaign against what he saw as the injustice of the rota system. As part of this he wrote criticising Gregory's views 9, and this brought the Bells, Benjamin and John into conflict. This feud was at the heart of much of the criticism to which Benjamin Bell was subjected by his namesake.\n\nIn 1775 Bell fell from horseback and sustained injuries that were to force him to take an rest from surgical practice for some two years. This rest was to prove fortuitous, for it allowed him time to reflect and to write, and his relatively wealthy background enabled him to do this without financial concerns. To further develop his interest in farming during this period of recuperation, he took the lease of Liberton Farm situated some two miles south of the centre of Edinburgh.\n\nReturning to what was to prove a highly successful career as a surgeon in Edinburgh, Bell went into practice with James Gibson (died 1815) who was to become president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh in 1778–79. Later he formed another surgical partnership with James Russell (1754–1836) and Andrew Wardrop (died 1823). Bell, Wardop and Russell became the leading surgical practice in Scotland with a wide referral base. Wardrop reckoned Bell \"… was a successful operator and during many years was more employed than any surgeon in Scotland\". He went so far as to boast of his partner that \"…no one could die contented without having consulted Benjamin Bell.\"\n\nOn 17 November 1783 Benjamin Bell was one of the founding Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nHe died at Newington House in south Edinburgh. He is buried with other family members, including his wife Grizzel Hamilton, in the south-east corner of Canongate Churchyard in Edinburgh.\n\nBenjamin Bell is considered by many to have been the first Scottish scientific surgeon. This reputation was based largely on his influential textbook \"A System of Surgery\". He can be regarded as a 'scientific' surgeon because of his rational thought processes which are apparenent in his treatises, particularly his Treatise on Gonorrhoea virulenta and Lues venerea (1793). Another treatise, The Theory and Management of Ulcers, was first published in 1778 and is still considered one of the classics of 18th-century physiology.\n\nThe \"System\" appeared in six volumes between 1783 and 1788. By 1801 no fewer than seven editions had been published, and it went on to Italian, French, Spanish, German and three American editions. It was popular was because it was comprehensive; made use of up-to-date published material from all over Europe, and because of Bell's reputation as a surgeon. Bell was an advocate of the routine use of opium to relieve post-operative pain, stating \"to be able to alleviate the misery of those who are obliged to submit to dangerous operations must afford the biggest gratification to every practitioner.\" Bell also credited his fellow Scot, James Moore, with developing a clamp to produce nerve compression in the arm or leg to provide analgesia for amputation. \n\nBell's family background was in farming, and, during his two-year break from surgery after his accident in 1775, he rented Liberton farm two miles from central Edinburgh, and his interest in the subject was revived. He frequently wrote to his father for agricultural advice.\n\nBell bought the lands of Newington in South Edinburgh in 1803 and was responsible for the development of the area. He built Newington House for himself just before his death. Although this house was demolished in 1966, the streets around where it lay include Blacket Avenue and Middleby Street named after the Dumfriesshire localities of Bell's youth. His son, George, commissioned architect James Gillespie Graham (1776–1855) to prepare plans for housing and the subdivision of the land into plots.\n\nPrior to marriage he lived as Gosford Close on the Royal Mile.\n\nBell married Grizel Hamilton, daughter of the Very Rev Prof Robert Hamilton FRSE (1707–1787), in 1774. After marriage he moved to a handsome house on Old Assembly Close. They had several sons who rose to prominence in Edinburgh society: George Bell FRSE (1777–1832), Robert Bell FRSE (1782–1861), William Bell FRSE (1783–1849)\n\nBell was the progenitor of one of the great Edinburgh surgical dynasties. His son Joseph, grandson Benjamin and great-grandson Joseph (1837–1911) were all surgeons in Edinburgh, and all became presidents of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. His great-grandson Joseph Bell (1837–1911), was known for his diagnostic abilities, which depended on his ability to observe minute details. This inspired a young Edinburgh medical student Arthur Conan Doyle (1859–1930) to base the fictional detective Sherlock Holmes on Joseph Bell.\n\n"}
{"id": "38499850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38499850", "title": "Birth Story: Ina May Gaskin and the Farm Midwives", "text": "Birth Story: Ina May Gaskin and the Farm Midwives\n\nBirth Story: Ina May Gaskin and the Farm Midwives is a 2012 documentary film about Ina May Gaskin directed by Sara Lamm and Mary Wigmore.\n\nThe documentary shows Gaskin and others practicing home birth at a commune. Today as nearly one third of all US babies are born via C-section; the struggle is to protect their midwifery knowledge and to promote respectful, safe maternity practices. \n\nFrom the backs of school buses, these birth activists rescue American midwifery from extinction and change the way a generation approaches pregnancy. With unprecedented access to the midwives' archival video collection, as well as modern footage of life at the alternative community where they live, this documentary shows childbirth the way most people have never seen it.\n\n"}
{"id": "24934874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24934874", "title": "Centro de Formação e Desenvolvimento dos Trabalhadores da Saúde de São Paulo", "text": "Centro de Formação e Desenvolvimento dos Trabalhadores da Saúde de São Paulo\n\nThe Centro de Formação e Desenvolvimento dos Trabalhadores da Saúde de São Paulo (\"Center for Education and Development of Health Care Workers of São Paulo\", in Portuguese language - abbreviated CEFOR-SP) is a division of the Municipal Secretary of Health of São Paulo, created on March 30, 1990 by the Municipal Law No. 28,625.\n\nThe Center aims to train and to develop human resources for the Secretary's workforce, as well as the production and dissemination of educational materials to support these actions. Another objective is to complete and to supplement the primary and secondary education of its employees. Thus it is expected that the personal and professional development of the more than 57,000 public health care workers will benefit directly and indirectly the continuing improvement of quality of care provided to the citizens of São Paulo.\n\nThe Escola Técnica do SUS de São Paulo (ETSUS-SP) was created by Municipal Decree No. 42,120 of 19 June 2002. It is affiliated and coordinated by CEFOR-SP, and has eight regional branches (South, Southeast I and II, East I and II, North I and II, and Center-West)\n\nThe school offers secondary-level technical vocational courses in allied health care with minimum duration of 1,200 hours, and provides certification which is valid for the entire national territory:\n\n\nCEFOR-SP in charge of educational coordination of the Rede São Paulo Saudável (\"Healthy São Paulo Network\") professional education digital TV channel and distance education initiatives of the Secretary of Health.\n\n"}
{"id": "18550025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18550025", "title": "Cerebral vasculitis", "text": "Cerebral vasculitis\n\nCerebral vasculitis or central nervous system vasculitis (sometimes the word angiitis is used instead of \"vasculitis\") is vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessel wall) involving the brain and occasionally the spinal cord. It affects all of the vessels: very small blood vessels (capillaries), medium-size blood vessels (arterioles and venules), or large blood vessels (arteries and veins). If blood flow in a vessel with vasculitis is reduced or stopped, the parts of the body that receive blood from that vessel begins to die. It may produce a wide range of neurological symptoms, such as headache, skin rashes, feeling very tired, joint pains, difficulty moving or coordinating part of the body, changes in sensation, and alterations in perception, thought or behavior, as well as the phenomena of a mass lesion in the brain leading to coma and herniation. Some of its signs and symptoms may resemble multiple sclerosis. 10% have associated bleeding in the brain.\n\n\"Primary\" or angiitis/vasculitis of the central nervous system (PACNS) is said to be present if there is no underlying cause. The exact mechanism of the primary disease is unknown, but the fundamental mechanism of all vasculitides is autoimmunity. Other possible secondary causes of cerebral vasculitis are infections, systemic auto-immune diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and rheumatoid arthritis, medications and drugs (amphetamine, cocaine and heroin), some forms of cancer (lymphomas, leukemia and lung cancer) and other forms of systemic vasculitis such as granulomatosis with polyangiitis, polyarteritis nodosa or Behçet's disease. It may imitate, and is in turn imitated by, a number of other diseases that affect the blood vessels of the brain diffusely such as fibromuscular dysplasia and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura.\n\nCerebral angiography and magnetic resonance imaging, family medical history, symptoms, a complete physical examination, and ultimately biopsy of the brain, are often required for the diagnosis. Also, many lab tests must be done for the diagnosis; tests may reveal anemia (a shortage of red blood cells), a high white blood cell count, a high platelet count, allergic reactions, immune complexes, antibodies (tools the body uses to fight off threats) and elevation of inflammatory markers. Another crucial part in the diagnosis of cerebral vasculitis is the use of imaging techniques. Techniques such as conventional digital subtraction angiography (DSA) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are used to find and monitor cerebral involvement.\n\nTreatment is first with many different high-dose steroids, namely glucocorticoids. Then, if symptoms do not improve additional immunosuppression such as cyclophosphamide are added to decrease the immune system's attack on the body's own tissues. Cerebral vasculitis is a very rare condition that is difficult to diagnose, and as a result there are significant variations in the way it is diagnosed and treated.\n\n\nThree or more of the following five criteria must be met:\n\nStarts with nonspecific symptoms such as:\n\nThree or more of the following six criteria must be met:\n\n\n\nThree or more of the following ten criteria are required:\n\n\n\nTwo or more of the following four criteria are required:\n\n"}
{"id": "2765274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2765274", "title": "Cross education", "text": "Cross education\n\nCross education is a neurophysiological phenomenon where an increase in strength is witnessed within an untrained limb following unilateral strength training in the opposite, contralateral limb.\n\nCross education can also be seen in the transfer of skills from one limb to the other.\n\nA resistance trainer witnesses strength gains in her left and right biceps after participating in a strength training program for only her right biceps. This phenomenon is due to factors both at the muscular, spinal and neural levels.\n\nA basketball player learns to dribble a basketball with his right hand and then successfully performs the task with his left hand even though he had undergone no previous training with his left side.\n"}
{"id": "21199616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21199616", "title": "Dietary Reference Values", "text": "Dietary Reference Values\n\nDietary Reference Values (DRV) is the name of the nutritional requirements systems used by the United Kingdom Department of Health and the European Union's European Food Safety Authority.\n\nIn 1991, the United Kingdom Department of Health published the Dietary Reference Values for Food Energy and Nutrients for the United Kingdom. This records Dietary Reference Values which recommended nutritional intakes for the UK population. The DRVs can be divided into three types:\n\n\nRNI is not the same as RDA (Recommended Daily Allowance) or GDA, although they are often similar.\n\nGeneral advice is given for healthy people using the table. The government recommends that healthy people should eat a diet which contains plenty of starch (rice, bread, pasta and potatoes). It also recommends that a person should eat at least 5 fruit or vegetable portions each day. Meat, fish, eggs and other protein-rich foods should be eaten in moderation. Dairy products should also be moderately consumed. Finally, salt, saturated fat and sugar should be eaten least of all.\n\nThis advice is summarized in the eatwell guide.\n\nNote that exceptions to these rules include pregnant women and young children. Additionally, those who have little exposure to sunlight may need to take vitamin D supplementation.\n\nThe Dietary Reference Values below are specified mainly for adults. They define the proportion of a person's total energy intake which should come from different components of food. These include fat and fatty acids, fibre, starch and sugars. Note that these values do not apply to children, and children younger than five with small appetites should not have such restrictions imposed.\n\nThe guideline salt intake for adults is about 6 grams of salt (approximately one teaspoon). The Food Standards Agency estimate the average salt intake is about 8.6 grams/day (2008). A high salt diet is likely to increase the risk of high blood pressure, which is associated with an increased risk of heart attack and stroke.\n\nRecommendations for protein, vitamins and minerals vary by age. Where different intakes for males and females are recommended, the higher value is identified in the table below to ensure that the greatest daily needs of the group is met: \n\nIn recent times, Dietary Reference Values are under the interest of the European Food Safety Authority too, which intend to extend them at the EU level. EFSA is the equivalent of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the USA, and acts as watchdog inside the European market in order to establish a common ground on food safety requirements and nutrition as well.\n\nEFSA met in September 2009 with representative of the Member States in order to gain their views on fats, carbohydrates, fibres and water as well as Food-Based Dietary Guidelines.\nFurthermore EFSA is searching for comments (Open Consultation) by 15 October, in order to validate its assumptions on the need to have:\n\n\nEFSA considers that there are not sufficient data to set DRVs for sugars, and not systematic scientific substantiation linking diseases such as stroke or diabetes (DMT1 or DMT2) to an increased intake of sugars (glycemic load/glycemic index).\nIn any case, there is much literature referring to this link, on journals with very high impact factor and statistically robust design and results\n\nMany problems seem nowadays to derive from having integrated EU level DRV:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "104444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=104444", "title": "Dietary supplement", "text": "Dietary supplement\n\nA dietary supplement is a manufactured product intended to supplement the diet when taken by mouth as a pill, capsule, tablet, or liquid. A supplement can provide nutrients either extracted from food sources or synthetic, individually or in combination, in order to increase the quantity of their consumption. The class of nutrient compounds includes vitamins, minerals, fiber, fatty acids and amino acids. Dietary supplements can also contain substances that have not been confirmed as being essential to life, but are marketed as having a beneficial biological effect, such as plant pigments or polyphenols. Animals can also be a source of supplement ingredients, as for example collagen from chickens or fish. These are also sold individually and in combination, and may be combined with nutrient ingredients. In the United States and Canada, dietary supplements are considered a subset of foods, and are regulated accordingly. The European Commission has also established harmonized rules to help insure that food supplements are safe and properly labeled. Among other countries, the definition of dietary supplements may vary as drugs or other classes of ingredients used in supplement products.\nCreating an industry estimated to have a 2015 value of $37 billion, there are more than 50,000 dietary supplement products marketed just in the United States, where about 50% of the American adult population consumes dietary supplements. Multivitamins are the most commonly used product. For those who fail to consume a balanced diet, the United States National Institutes of Health states that certain supplements \"may have value.\"\nIn the United States, it is against federal regulations for supplement manufacturers to claim that these products prevent or treat any disease. Companies are allowed to use what is referred to as \"Structure/Function\" wording if there is substantiation of scientific evidence for a supplement providing a potential health effect. An example would be \"_____ helps maintain healthy joints\", but the label must bear a disclaimer that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) \"has not evaluated the claim and that the dietary supplement product is not intended to \"diagnose, treat, cure or prevent any disease,\" because only a drug can legally make such a claim. The FDA enforces these regulations, and also prohibits the sale of supplements and supplement ingredients that are dangerous, or supplements not made according to standardized good manufacturing practices (GMPs).\n\nIn the United States, the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 provides this description: \"The Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA) defines the term “dietary supplement” to mean a product (other than tobacco) intended to supplement the diet that bears or contains one or more of the following dietary ingredients: a vitamin, a mineral, an herb or other botanical, an amino acid, a dietary substance for use by man to supplement the diet by increasing the total dietary intake, or a concentrate, metabolite, constituent, extract, or combination of any of the aforementioned ingredients. Furthermore, a dietary supplement must be labeled as a dietary supplement and be intended for ingestion and must not be represented for use as conventional food or as a sole item of a meal or of the diet. In addition, a dietary supplement cannot be approved or authorized for investigation as a new drug, antibiotic, or biologic, unless it was marketed as a food or a dietary supplement before such approval or authorization. Under DSHEA, dietary supplements are deemed to be food, except for purposes of the drug definition.\"\n\nPer DSHEA, dietary supplements are consumed orally, and are mainly defined by what they are not: conventional foods (including meal replacements), medical foods, preservatives or pharmaceutical drugs. Products intended for use as a nasal spray, or topically, as a lotion applied to the skin, do not qualify. FDA-approved drugs cannot be ingredients in dietary supplements. Supplement products are or contain vitamins, nutritionally essential minerals, amino acids, essential fatty acids and non-nutrient substances extracted from plants or animals or fungi or bacteria, or in the instance of probiotics, are live bacteria. Dietary supplement ingredients may also be synthetic copies of naturally occurring substances (example: melatonin). All products with these ingredients are required to be labeled as dietary supplements. Like foods and unlike drugs, no government approval is required to make or sell dietary supplements; the manufacturer confirms the safety of dietary supplements but the government does not; and rather than requiring risk–benefit analysis to prove that the product can be sold like a drug, such assessment is only used by the FDA to decide that a dietary supplement is unsafe and should be removed from market.\n\nA vitamin is an organic compound required by an organism as a vital nutrient in limited amounts. An organic chemical compound (or related set of compounds) is called a vitamin when it cannot be synthesized in sufficient quantities by an organism, and must be obtained from the diet. The term is conditional both on the circumstances and on the particular organism. For example, ascorbic acid (vitamin C) is a vitamin for anthropoid primates, humans, guinea pigs and bats, but not for other mammals. Vitamin D is not an essential nutrient for people who get sufficient exposure to ultraviolet light, either from the sun or an artificial source, as then they synthesize vitamin D in skin. Humans require thirteen vitamins in their diet, most of which are actually groups of related molecules, \"vitamers\", (e.g. vitamin E includes tocopherols and tocotrienols, vitamin K includes vitamin K and K). The list: vitamins A, C, D, E, K, Thiamine (B1), Riboflavin (B2), Niacin (B3), Pantothenic Acid (B5), Vitamin B6, Biotin (B7), Folate (B9) and Vitamin B12. Vitamin intake below recommended amounts can result in signs and symptoms associated with vitamin deficiency. There is little evidence of benefit when consumed as a dietary supplement by those who are healthy and consuming a nutritionally adequate diet.\n\nThe U.S. Institute of Medicine sets Tolerable upper intake levels (ULs) for some of the vitamins. This does not prevent dietary supplement companies from selling products with content per serving higher than the ULs. For example, the UL for vitamin D is 100 µg (4,000 IU), but products are available without prescription at 10,000 IU.\n\nMinerals are the exogenous chemical elements indispensable for life. Four minerals: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, are essential for life but are so ubiquitous in food and drink that these are not considered nutrients and there are no recommended intakes for these as minerals. The need for nitrogen is addressed by requirements set for protein, which is composed of nitrogen-containing amino acids. Sulfur is essential, but for humans, not identified as having a recommended intake per se. Instead, recommended intakes are identified for the sulfur-containing amino acids methionine and cysteine. There are dietary supplements which provide sulfur, such as taurine and methylsulfonylmethane.\n\nThe essential nutrient minerals for humans, listed in order by weight needed to be at the Recommended Dietary Allowance or Adequate Intake are potassium, chlorine, sodium, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium, iron, zinc, manganese, copper, iodine, chromium, molybdenum, selenium and cobalt (the last as a component of vitamin B). There are other minerals which are essential for some plants and animals, but may or may not be essential for humans, such as boron and silicon. Essential and purportedly essential minerals are marketed as dietary supplements, individually and in combination with vitamins and other minerals.\n\nAlthough as a general rule, dietary supplement labeling and marketing are not allowed to make disease prevention or treatment claims, the U.S. FDA has for some foods and dietary supplements reviewed the science, concluded that there is significant scientific agreement, and published specifically worded allowed health claims. An initial ruling allowing a health claim for calcium dietary supplements and osteoporosis was later amended to include calcium supplements with or without vitamin D, effective January 1, 2010. Examples of allowed wording are shown below. In order to qualify for the calcium health claim, a dietary supplement much contain at least 20% of the Reference Dietary Intake, which for calcium means at least 260 mg/serving.\nIn the same year, the European Food Safety Authority also approved a dietary supplement health claim for calcium and vitamin D and the reduction of the risk of osteoporotic fractures by reducing bone loss.\nThe U.S. FDA also approved Qualified Health Claims (QHCs) for various health conditions for calcium, selenium and chromium picolinate. QHCs are supported by scientific evidence, but do not meet the more rigorous “significant scientific agreement” standard required for an authorized health claim. If dietary supplement companies choose to make such a claim then the FDA stipulates the exact wording of the QHC to be used on labels and in marketing materials. The wording can be onerous: \"One study suggests that selenium intake may reduce the risk of bladder cancer in women. However, one smaller study showed no reduction in risk. Based on these studies, FDA concludes that it is highly uncertain that selenium supplements reduce the risk of bladder cancer in women.\"\n\nProtein-containing supplements, either ready-to-drink or as powders to be mixed into water, are marketed as aids to people recovering from illness or injury, those hoping to thwart the sarcopenia of old age, to athletes who believe that strenuous physical activity increases protein requirements, to people hoping to lose weight while minimizing muscle loss, i.e., conducting a protein-sparing modified fast, and to people who want to increase muscle size for performance and appearance. Whey protein is a popular ingredient, but products may also incorporate casein, soy, pea, hemp or rice protein.\n\nAccording to US & Canadian Dietary Reference Intake guidelines, the protein Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for adults is based on 0.8 grams protein per kilogram body weight. The recommendation is for sedentary and lightly active people. Scientific reviews can conclude that a high protein diet, when combined with exercise, will increase muscle mass and strength, or conclude the opposite. The International Olympic Committee recommends protein intake targets for both strength and endurance athletes at about 1.2-1.8 g/kg body mass per day. One review proposed a maximum daily protein intake of approximately 25% of energy requirements, i.e., approximately 2.0 to 2.5 g/kg.\n\nThe same protein ingredients marketed as dietary supplements can be incorporated into meal replacement and medical food products, but those are regulated and labeled differently from supplements. In the United States, \"meal replacement\" products are foods and are labeled as such. These typically contain protein, carbohydrates, fats, vitamins and minerals. There may be content claims such as \"good source of protein\", \"low fat\" or \"lactose free.\" Medical foods, also nutritionally complete, are designed to be used while a person is under the care of a physician or other licensed healthcare professional. Liquid medical food products - example Ensure - are available in regular and high protein versions.\n\nProteins are chains of amino acids. Nine of these proteinogenic amino acids are considered essential for humans because they cannot be produced from other compounds by the human body and so must be taken in as food. Recommended intakes, expressed as milligrams per kilogram of body weight per day, have been established. Other amino acids may be conditionally essential for certain ages or medical conditions. Amino acids, individually and in combinations, are sold as dietary supplements. The claim for supplementing with the branched chain amino acids leucine, valine and isoleucine is for stimulating muscle protein synthesis. A review of the literature concluded this claim was unwarranted. In elderly people, supplementation with just leucine resulted in a modest (0.99 kg) increase in lean body mass. The non-essential amino acid arginine, consumed in sufficient amounts, is thought to act as a donor for the synthesis of nitric oxide, a vasodilator. A review confirmed blood pressure lowering. Taurine, a popular dietary supplement ingredient with claims made for sports performance, is technically not an amino acid. It is synthesized in the body from the amino acid cysteine.\n\nFish oil is a commonly used fatty acid supplement because it is a source of omega-3 fatty acids. Fatty acids are strings of carbon atoms, having a range of lengths. If links are all single (C-C), then the fatty acid is called \"saturated\"; with one double bond (C=C), it is called \"monounsaturated\"; if there are two or more double bonds (C=C=C), it is called \"polyunsaturated\". Only two fatty acids, both polyunsaturated, are considered essential to be obtained from the diet, as the others are synthesized in the body. The \"essential\" fatty acids are alpha-linolenic acid (ALA), an omega-3 fatty acid, and linoleic acid (LA), an omega-6 fatty acid. ALA can be elongated in the body to create other omega-3 fatty acids: eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA).\n\nPlant oils, particularly seed and nut oils, contain ALA. Food sources of EPA and DHA are oceanic fish, whereas dietary supplement sources include fish oil, krill oil and marine algae extracts. The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) identifies 250 mg/day for a combined total of EPA and DHA as Adequate Intake, with a recommendation that women pregnant or lactating consume an additional 100 to 200 mg/day of DHA. In the United States and Canada are Adequate Intakes for ALA and LA over various stages of life, but there are no intake levels specified for EPA and/or DHA.\n\nSupplementation with EPA and/or DHA does not appear to affect the risk of death, cancer or heart disease. Furthermore, studies of fish oil supplements have failed to support claims of preventing heart attacks or strokes. In 2017, the American Heart Association issued a science advisory stating that it could not recommend use of omega-3 fish oil supplements for primary prevention of cardiovascular disease or stroke, although it reaffirmed supplementation for people who have a history of coronary heart disease.\n\nDietary supplements can be manufactured using intact sources or extracts from plants, animals, algae, fungi or lichens, including such examples as ginkgo biloba, curcumin, cranberry, St. John’s wort, ginseng, resveratrol, glucosamine and collagen. Products bearing promotional claims of health benefits are sold without requiring a prescription in pharmacies, supermarkets, specialist shops, military commissaries, buyers clubs, direct selling organizations, and the internet. While most of these products have a long history of use in herbalism and various forms of traditional medicine, concerns exist about their actual efficacy, safety and consistency of quality. Canada has published a manufacturer and consumer guide describing quality, licensing, standards, identities, and common contaminants of natural products. In 2016, sales of herbal supplements just in the United States were $7.5 billion, with the market growing at about 8% per year. Italy, Germany and Eastern European countries were leading consumers of botanical supplements in 2016, with European Union market growth forecast to be $8.7 billion by 2020.\n\nIn humans, the large intestine is host to more than 1,000 species of microorganisms, mostly bacteria, numbering in the tens of trillions. \"Probiotic\" in the context of dietary supplements is the theory that by orally consuming specific live bacteria (or yeast) species, it is possible to influence the large intestine microbiota, with consequent health benefits. Although there are numerous claimed benefits of using probiotic supplements, such as maintaining gastrointestinal health, in part by lowering risk of and severity of constipation or diarrhea, and improving immune health, including lower risk of and severity of acute upper respiratory tract infections, i.e., the common cold, such claims are not all supported by sufficient clinical evidence. A review based on interviews with dozens of experts in microbiome research expressed concern about \"...how biomedical research is co-opted by commercial entities that place profit over health.\" The concern is timely, as through 2021, probiotic supplements are expected to be the fastest growing segment of the dietary supplement market worldwide, while at the same time, the global health benefits market for probiotic-containing yogurt (a food, not a dietary supplement) is declining.\n\nAs with all dietary supplements, in the United States inappropriate label health claims such as preventing or treating disease are opposed by the FDA and deceptive advertisements by the Federal Trade Commission. Probiotic foods and dietary supplements are allowed to make claims using Structure:Function vocabulary as long as human trial evidence is adequate. In 2005, the FDA issued a Warning Letter to UAS Laboratories for disease treatment claims (colds, flu, ulcers, elevated blood cholesterol, colon cancer...). The company revised label and website content and continued to sell the product. In 2011 the company was found to have resumed the label and website claims, and the FDA seized product and stopped production. In 2010 a FTC action was brought against a probiotic food company for exaggerated health claims, resulting in a multimillion-dollar fine and revisions to future advertising. In the European Union a more restrictive approach has been taken by the EFSA. All proposed health claims were rejected on the grounds that the science was not sufficient, and no health claims are permitted. Foods with live microorganisms (yogurt, kefir) can be sold, but without claims.\n\nProbiotic supplements are generally regarded as safe. The greatest concern, evidenced by reviews reporting on case studies, is that for people with compromised gut wall integrity there may be a risk of systemic infection. For this reason, probiotic research is expected to exclude bacteria species that are antibiotic resistant.\n\nIn 2015, the American market for dietary supplements was valued at $37 billion, with the economic impact in the United States for 2016 estimated at $122 billion, including employment wages and taxes. One 2016 analysis estimated the total market for dietary supplements could reach $278 billion worldwide by 2024.\n\nOver the period 2008 to 2011, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) of the United States received 6,307 reports of health problems (identified as adverse events) from use of dietary supplements containing a combination of ingredients in manufactured vitamins, minerals or other supplement products, with 92% of tested herbal supplements containing lead and 80% containing other chemical contaminants. Using undercover staff, the GAO also found that supplement retailers intentionally engaged in \"unequivocal deception\" to sell products advertised with baseless health claims, particularly to elderly consumers. Consumer Reports also reported unsafe levels of arsenic, cadmium, lead and mercury in several protein powder products. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) reported that protein spiking, i.e., the addition of amino acids to manipulate protein content analysis, was common. Many of the companies involved challenged CBC's claim.\n\nA 2013 study on herbal supplements found that many products were of low quality, one third did not contain the active ingredient(s) claimed, and one third contained unlisted substances. In a genetic analysis of herbal supplements, 78% of samples contained animal DNA that was not identified as an ingredient on the product labels. In some botanical products, undeclared ingredients were used to increase the bulk of the product and reduce its cost of manufacturing, while potentially violating certain religious and/or cultural limitations on consuming animal ingredients, such as cow, buffalo or deer. In 2015, the New York Attorney General identified four major retailers with dietary supplement products that contained fraudulent and potentially dangerous ingredients, requiring the companies to remove the products from retail stores.\n\nA study of dietary supplements sold between 2007 and 2016 identified 776 that contained unlisted pharmaceutical drugs, many of which could interact with other medications and lead to hospitalization. 86% of the adulterated supplements were marketed for weight loss and sexual performance, with many containing prescription erectile dysfunction medication. Muscle building supplements were contaminated with anabolic steroids, and multiple products contained antidepressants and antihistamines. Despite these findings, fewer than half of the adulterated supplements were recalled.\n\nThe United States Food and Drug Administration, Office of Inspections, Compliance, Enforcement, and Criminal Investigations, monitors supplement products for accuracy in advertising and labeling, and when finding violations, warns manufacturers of impending enforcement action, including search and seizure, injunction, and/or financial penalties, such as for a Maine supplement company in 2017. The United States Federal Trade Commission, which litigates against deceptive advertising, established a consumer center to assist reports of false health claims in product advertising for dietary supplements, and, in 2017, successfully sued nine manufacturers for deceptive advertising of dietary supplements.\n\nIn the United States, manufacturers of dietary supplements are required to demonstrate safety of their products before approval is granted for commerce. Despite this caution, numerous adverse effects have been reported, including muscle cramps, hair loss, joint pain, liver disease, and allergic reactions, with 29% of the adverse effects resulting in hospitalization, and 20% in serious injuries or illnesses. By more than five-fold, the highest incidence of health problems derived from \"combination products\", whereas supplements for vitamins and minerals, lipid products, and herbal products were less likely to cause adverse effects.\n\nAmong general reasons for the possible harmful effects of dietary supplements are: a) absorption in a short time, b) manufacturing quality and contamination, and c) enhancing both positive and negative effects at the same time. The incidence of liver injury from herbal and dietary supplements is about 16–20% of all supplement products causing injury, with the occurrence growing globally over the early 21st century. The most common liver injuries from weight loss and bodybuilding supplements involve hepatocellular damage with resulting jaundice, and the most common supplement ingredients attributed to these injuries are green tea catechins, anabolic steroids, and the herbal extract, aegeline. Weight loss supplements have also had adverse psychiatric effects.\n\nWork done by scientists in the early 20th century on identifying individual nutrients in food and developing ways to manufacture them raised hopes that optimal health could be achieved and diseases prevented by adding them to food and providing people with dietary supplements; while there were successes in preventing vitamin deficiencies, and preventing conditions like neural tube defects by supplementation and food fortification with folic acid, no targeted supplementation or fortification strategies to prevent major diseases like cancer or cardiovascular diseases have proved successful.\n\nFor example, while increased consumption of fruits and vegetables are related to decreases in mortality, cardiovascular diseases and cancers, supplementation with key factors found in fruits and vegetable, like antioxidants, vitamins, or minerals, do not help and some have been found to be harmful in some cases. In general as of 2016, robust clinical data is lacking, that shows that any kind of dietary supplementation does more good than harm for people who are healthy and eating a reasonable diet but there is clear data showing that dietary pattern and lifestyle choices are associated with health outcomes.\n\nAs a result of the lack of good data for supplementation and the strong data for dietary pattern, public health recommendations for healthy eating urge people to eat a plant-based diet of whole foods, minimizing processed food, salt and sugar and to get exercise daily, and to abandon Western pattern diets and a sedentary lifestyle.\n\nThe regulation of food and dietary supplements by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration is governed by various statutes enacted by the United States Congress and interpreted by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (\"FDA\"). Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (\"the Act\") and accompanying legislation, the FDA has authority to oversee the quality of substances sold as food in the United States, and to monitor claims made in the labeling about both the composition and the health benefits of foods.\n\nSubstances which the FDA regulates as food are subdivided into various categories, including foods, food additives, added substances (man-made substances which are not intentionally introduced into food, but nevertheless end up in it), and dietary supplements. The specific standards which the FDA exercises differ from one category to the next. Furthermore, the FDA has been granted a variety of means by which it can address violations of the standards for a given category of substances.\n\nDietary supplement manufacture is required to comply with the good manufacturing practices established in 2007. The FDA can visit manufacturing facilities, send Warning Letters if not in compliance with GMPs, stop production, and if there is a health risk, require that the company conduct a recall.\n\nThe European Union's (EU) Food Supplements Directive of 2002 requires that supplements be demonstrated to be safe, both in dosages and in purity. Only those supplements that have been proven to be safe may be sold in the EU without prescription. As a category of food, food supplements cannot be labeled with drug claims but can bear health claims and nutrition claims.\n\nThe dietary supplements industry in the United Kingdom (UK), one of the 28 countries in the bloc, strongly opposed the Directive. In addition, a large number of consumers throughout Europe, including over one million in the UK, and various doctors and scientists, had signed petitions by 2005 against what are viewed by the petitioners as unjustified restrictions of consumer choice. In 2004, along with two British trade associations, the Alliance for Natural Health (ANH) had a legal challenge to the Food Supplements Directive referred to the European Court of Justice by the High Court in London.\n\nAlthough the European Court of Justice's Advocate General subsequently said that the bloc's plan to tighten rules on the sale of vitamins and food supplements should be scrapped, he was eventually overruled by the European Court, which decided that the measures in question were necessary and appropriate for the purpose of protecting public health. ANH, however, interpreted the ban as applying only to synthetically produced supplements, and not to vitamins and minerals normally found in or consumed as part of the diet. Nevertheless, the European judges acknowledged the Advocate General's concerns, stating that there must be clear procedures to allow substances to be added to the permitted list based on scientific evidence. They also said that any refusal to add the product to the list must be open to challenge in the courts.\n\nExamples of ongoing government research organizations to better understand the potential health properties and safety of dietary supplements are the European Food Safety Authority, the Office of Dietary Supplements of the United States National Institutes of Health, the Natural and Non-prescription Health Products Directorate of Canada, and the Therapeutic Goods Administration of Australia. Together with public and private research groups, these agencies construct databases on supplement properties, perform research on quality, safety, and population trends of supplement use, and evaluate the potential clinical efficacy of supplements for maintaining health or lowering disease risk.\n\nAs continual research on the properties of supplements accumulates, databases or fact sheets for various supplements are updated regularly, including the Dietary Supplement Label Database, Dietary Supplement Ingredient Database, and Dietary Supplement Facts Sheets of the United States. In Canada where a license is issued when a supplement product has been proven by the manufacturer and government to be safe, effective and of sufficient quality for its recommended use, an eight-digit Natural Product Number is assigned and recorded in a Licensed Natural Health Products Database. The European Food Safety Authority maintains a compendium of botanical ingredients used in manufacturing of dietary supplements.\n\nIn 2015, the Australian Government's Department of Health published the results of a review of herbal supplements to determine if any were suitable for coverage by health insurance. Establishing guidelines to assess safety and efficacy of botanical supplement products, the European Medicines Agency provided criteria for evaluating and grading the quality of clinical research in preparing monographs about herbal supplements. In the United States, the National Center for Complementary and Integrative Health of the National Institutes of Health provides fact sheets evaluating the safety, potential effectiveness and side effects of many botanical products.\n\nTo assure supplements have sufficient quality, standardization, and safety for public consumption, research efforts have focused on development of reference materials for supplement manufacturing and monitoring. High-dose products have received research attention, especially for emergency situations such as vitamin A deficiency in malnutrition of children, and for women taking folate supplements to reduce the risk of breast cancer.\n\nIn the United States, the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) has investigated habits of using dietary supplements in context of total nutrient intakes from the diet in adults and children. Over the period of 1999 to 2012, use of multivitamins decreased, and there was wide variability in the use of individual supplements among subgroups by age, sex, race/ethnicity, and educational status. Particular attention has been given to use of folate supplements by young women to reduce the risk of fetal neural tube defects.\n\nResearch initiatives to improve knowledge of the possible health benefits of supplementing with essential nutrients to lower disease risk have been extensive. As examples, just in 2017 were reviews on\n\nA 2017 review indicated a rising incidence of liver injury from use of herbal and dietary supplements, particularly those with steroids, green tea extract, or multiple ingredients.\n\nThe potential benefit of using essential nutrient dietary supplements to lower the risk of diseases has been refuted by findings of no effect or weak evidence in numerous clinical reviews, such as for cardiovascular diseases, cancer, HIV, or tuberculosis.\n\nA review of clinical trials registered at clinicaltrials.gov, which would include both drugs and supplements, reported that nearly half of completed trials were sponsored wholly or partially by industry. This does not automatically imply bias, but there is evidence that because of selective non-reporting, results in support of a potential drug or supplement ingredient are more likely to be published than results that do not demonstrate a statistically significant benefit. One review reported that fewer than half of the registered clinical trials resulted in publication in peer-reviewed journals.\n\nImproving public information about use of dietary supplements involves investments in professional training programs, further studies of population and nutrient needs, expanding the database information, enhancing collaborations between governments and universities, and translating dietary supplement research into useful information for consumers, health professionals, scientists, and policymakers. Future demonstration of efficacy from use of dietary supplements requires high-quality clinical research using rigorously-qualified products and compliance with established guidelines for reporting of clinical trial results (e.g., CONSORT guidelines).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33666762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33666762", "title": "Economic Instruments for Water Policies", "text": "Economic Instruments for Water Policies\n\nEconomic Instruments for water policies are tools based on incentives ad disincentives; they change conditions to enable economic transactions or reduce risk, aiming at increasing environmental quality.\n\nIn a world of ever increasing water demand and decline in water availability and/or reliability, where water-related hazards are on rise, where climate change threatens to undo decades of development efforts, the only way to sustainability is a right mix of mutually strengthening policy instruments. In this policy mix, Economic Policy Instruments (EPIs) are best suited to foster an efficient allocation and use of water, reduce harmful exposure and impacts on the communities and environment, and protect natural capital.\nEPIs are regulations that encourage behaviour through market signals rather than through explicit directives”. They are a means of correcting market signals in order to convey the costs of externalities to economic actors (individuals as well as firms) which have generated them. Regarding water policies, economic instruments comprise regulations like those creating virtual market conditions (tradable permits), charges for public services, payments for ecosystem services, and transfer payments such as incentives based on taxation, levies, fees and royalties and subsidies. They represent an alternative to more traditional command and control instruments. Whereas already introduced into climate policies, air quality and energy policies, their application to water policies represents some specific challenges.\n\nIn Environmental Policy, economic instruments have received increasing attention over the last decades, and have been implemented to achieve environmental policy objectives such as climate policy under the form of Emission Trading. However, although EPIs have been proved to perform better than alternative instruments (command and control instruments or voluntary agreements) in other domains of environmental policies, their application to tackle water management issues (drought/water scarcity, floods, and water quality) are beset by many difficulties both of practical and ethical character: Despite the Dublin statement on sustainable water management adopted by the UN in 1992 which stating, in its fourth principle, that \"Water has an economic value in all its competing uses and should be recognized as an economic good\" the conception of water as an economic (and tradable) good is not accepted unanimously; especially Human rights groups see this principle in contradiction to the Right to water.\n\nCharges for the use of water are among the best known economic instruments for water policies. They can contribute to the transmission of market signals which are coherent with policy aims, if their design is transparent and revenues are earmarked to uses connected to the service or to the mitigation of impacts from water uses. Charges for water uses potentially aim at different objectives: (a) redistribution the costs water service operators bear for water related services among the users, cover costs for service provision; (b) distribute social costs of resource uses, for instance environmental costs, among users, (c) attribute water uses to the economically most efficient type of uses according to their ability to pay for water uses.\n\nTaxes on the use of water as an environmental good, for instance on the use of ground water, can help internalizing negative environmental impacts and/or collect fincnacial resources for the public budget. The earmarking of environmental taxes (making the use of the resources collected transparent and coherent to the environmental function of the tax) is a central issue for the acceptance of the tool.\n\nLike environmental taxes, charges can transmit signals for internalizing negative environmental impacts and influence behaviour, and to collect financial resources that are allocated to support environmental friendly practices and projects.\n\nAs water normally is not a traded good, the establishment of specific rights or tradeable permits are a means for using market mechanisms for the allocation of limited water resources. Creating virtual markets tradeable permits for water uses can improve the allocation (increase the efficiency) of resources to the economically most efficient uses. Virtual markets can be created either with regards to quantities of water to be used/abstracted or levels of pollution conceded to potential polluters.\n\nDirect or indirect subsidies of water uses aim mostly at increasing the attractiveness of \"green\" products, production factors that have limited negative environmental impacts on water resources or produce positive environmental externalities.\n\nPayments and charges on the deterioration of environmental goods can be substituted by mechanisms where environmental degradation leads to financial payment that is allocated to alternative actions to compensate for the degradation. Compensation can also be provided by third parties, for instance insurances.\n\nWater bodies provide ecosystem services consisting of flood protection, biodiversity support and remediation. These functions are generally not considered as economic benefits, although they are used as inputs for social activities. Introduction of payment schemes can potentially support the maintenance of natural functions of water bodies.\n\nThe EPI-WATER research project funded by the founded by European Commission under the 7th Framework Programme, sets to assess the effectiveness and the efficiency of Economic Policy Instruments in achieving water policy goals, and to identify the preconditions under which they complement or perform better than alternative (e.g. regulatory or voluntary) policy instruments. Using a common multi-dimensional assessment framework, the project will compare the performance of single economic instruments or their apposite combinations with the performance otherwise achievable with regulatory (command & control) interventions (such as water restriction/rationing, licensing or permitting), persuasive instruments or voluntary commitments. Furthermore the project will identify remaining research and methodological issues that need to be addressed, in particular with regards to the further development and use of national accounting, for supporting the design, implementation and evaluation of EPI in the field of water management.\n\nThe assessment is based on the analysis of case studies on experiences for the implementation of economic policy instruments for water policies throughout European Member states and beyond and on ex post simulation of impacts and environmental outcomes of the application of selected instruments to water policy issues in EU member states. \nThe project is coordinated by Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei.\n"}
{"id": "2687794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687794", "title": "Efua Dorkenoo", "text": "Efua Dorkenoo\n\nEfua Dorkenoo, OBE (6 September 1949 – 18 October 2014), affectionately known as \"Mama Efua\", was a Ghanaian-British campaigner against female genital mutilation (FGM) who pioneered the global movement to end the practice and worked internationally for more than 30 years to see the campaign \"move from a problem lacking in recognition to a key issue for governments around the world.\"\n\nShe was born in Cape Coast, Ghana, where she attended Wesley Girls' High School. She moved to London at the age of 19 to study nursing, and eventually earned a master's degree at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine and a research fellowship at City University London. She was a staff nurse at various hospitals, including the Royal Free, and it was while training as a midwife that she became aware of the impact of FGM on women's lives.\n\nShe joined the Minority Rights Group and travelled to various parts of Africa to gather information for what was one of the earliest reports published on FGM in 1980. In 1983 she founded the Foundation for Women's Health, Research and Development (FORWARD), a British NGO that supports women who have experienced FGM and tries to eliminate the practice. She began working with the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1995 and was the acting director for women’s health there until 2001. She was Advocacy Director and, subsequently, Senior FGM Advisor for Equality Now (an international human rights organization). She was close friends with Alice Walker, advising on and featured in the documentary film \"Warrior Marks\" (1993) made by Walker and Pratibha Parmar and with Gloria Steinem, who wrote an introduction to Dorkenoo's 1994 book \"Cutting the Rose: Female Genital Mutilation\".\n\nIn 1994, Dorkenoo was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire. In 2000, she and Gloria Steinem received Equality Now's international human rights award. In 2012, she was made honorary senior research fellow in the School of Health Sciences at City University London, and in 2013 she was named one of the BBC's 100 Women.\n\nDorkenoo's \"Cutting the Rose: Female Genital Mutilation\" (1994) was selected by an international jury in 2002 as one of the \"Africa's 100 Best Books of the 20th Century\".\n\nDorkenoo died of cancer in London at the age of 65 on 18 October 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40617793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40617793", "title": "Federal Biomedical Agency", "text": "Federal Biomedical Agency\n\nThe Federal Biomedical Agency or FMBA (Федеральное медико-биологическое агентство, ФМБА России) is the national public health institute of the Russian Federation. The agency is a federal agency under the Ministry of Health and is headquartered in Volokolamsk Highway, in Moscow.\n\nThe FMBA was known previously as Federal Directorate for biomedical and Extremal problems until October 11, 2004 when it was renamed into the current name. During the Soviet regime, since 1947, the Third Main Directorate of the Health Care ministry was responsible for such duties; While during the Czarist regime, especially since 1802, the Epidemic Police and the Medical Department of MVD were responsible for such functions.\n\nToday, Its main goal is to protect public health and safety through the control and prevention of disease, injury, and disability. The Agency (FMBA) focuses national attention on developing and applying disease control and prevention. It especially focuses its attention on infectious disease, food borne pathogens, environmental health, occupational safety and health, health promotion, injury prevention and educational activities designed to improve the health of Russian citizens. In addition, the FMBA researches and provides information on non-infectious diseases. The Agency is also responsible for the Russian blood bank.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4108262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4108262", "title": "Fixation disparity", "text": "Fixation disparity\n\nFixation disparity exists when there is a small misalignment of the eyes when viewing with binocular vision. The misaligment may be vertical, horizontal or both. The misalignment (a few minutes of arc) is much smaller than that of strabismus, which prevents binocular vision, although it may reduce a patient's level of stereopsis. A patient may or may not have fixation disparity and a patient may have a different fixation disparity at distance than near.\n\nThere are several methods to quantify fixation disparity. The Mallett card, the Bernell lantern slide, the Wesson Card and the Disparometer may be used. A patient's associated phoria is the amount of prism needed to reduce their fixation disparity to zero minutes of arc.\n\nThe Mallett Fixation Disparity Unit\n\nInstrument used to measure the associated heterophoria (or compensating prism). It consists of a small central fixation letter X surrounded by two letters O, one on each side of X, the three letters being seen binocularly, and two coloured polarized vertical bars in line with the centre of the X which are seen by each eye separately. The instrument can be swung through 90° to measure any vertical fixation disparity. The associated phoria is indicated by the misalignment of the two polarized bars when the subject fixates the X through cross-polarized filters in front of the eyes. The amount of associated phoria is given by the value of the base-in or base-out prism power necessary to produce alignment and the eye. The unit can also be used to detect suppression. See Disparometer; associated heterophoria; uncompensated heterophoria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13862231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13862231", "title": "Freedom to Breathe Act", "text": "Freedom to Breathe Act\n\nThe Freedom to Breathe Act of 2007 is a piece of Minnesota legislation that restricts the act of smoking tobacco products in public places. It amends sections of Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act (MCIAA) of 1975.\nOn May 16, 2007, the U.S. state of Minnesota passed the Freedom to Breathe Act. This act protects the public from hazardous secondhand smoke by banning smoking in public places. The ban took effect October 1, 2007. Minnesota is the 17th state to enforce a statewide smoking ban. The original and major supporters of the 1975 regulations are very pleased to see the new doctrine pass through legislation and sign into law. In an inForum online article, Don Davis quoted several House Republicans against the bill. Representative Bud Heidgerken, (R-Freeport), says that the ban will hurt small enterprises and presented a kink in the State's plan. He stated, \"You are going to vote them out of business tonight.\" Likewise, Dennis Ozment, (R-Rosemount), stated that the passage of the bill is \"tyranny, oppressive governmental power... This piece of legislation turned out to be just plain mean,\" \n\nThe 2007 anti-smoking act was not the first in the state to pass into law. The Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act (MCIAA) took in effect 1975. The purpose of this act was to enforce the \"protection of the public health.\" It prohibited smoking in areas where children, ill or injured are present. This first Minnesota act also limited smoking indoor at public places and private meetings.\n\nSmoking is permitted in the following places:\n\nAn indoor area is defined as the space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by walls covering more than 50 percent of the perimeter of the area. Temporary physical barriers are considered walls, but certain window screens are not.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "859248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=859248", "title": "Hair of the dog", "text": "Hair of the dog\n\n\"Hair of the dog\", short for \"Hair of the dog that bit you\", is a colloquial expression in the English language predominantly used to refer to alcohol that is consumed with the aim of lessening the effects of a hangover.\n\nThe expression originally referred to a method of treatment of a rabid dog bite by placing hair from the dog in the bite wound. Ebenezer Cobham Brewer writes in the \"Dictionary of Phrase and Fable\" (1898): \"In Scotland it is a popular belief that a few hairs of the dog that bit you applied to the wound will prevent evil consequences. Applied to drinks, it means, if overnight you have indulged too freely, take a glass of the same wine within 24 hours to soothe the nerves. 'If this dog do you bite, soon as out of your bed, take a hair of the tail the next day.'\" He also cites two apocryphal poems containing the phrase, one of which is attributed to Aristophanes. It is possible that the phrase was used to justify an existing practice, as the idea of \"like cures like\" () dates back at least to the time of Hippocrates. It exists today as the basic postulate of classical homeopathy. In the 1930s cocktails known as Corpse Revivers were served in hotels.\n\nThe earliest known reference to the phrase \"hair of the dog\" in connection with drunkenness is found in a text from ancient Ugarit dating from the mid to late second millennium BC, in which the god ʾIlu becomes hungover after a drinking binge. The text includes a recipe for a salve to be applied to the god's forehead, which consists of \"hairs of a dog\" and parts of an unknown plant mixed with olive oil.\n\nAn early example of modern usage (\"poil de ce chien\") can be found in Rabelais' 16th century pentology Gargantua and Pantagruel, literally translated by Motteux in the late 17th century.\n\nThe phrase also exists in Hungarian, where the literal translation to English is \"(You may cure) the dog's bite with its fur\", but has evolved into a short phrase (\"kutyaharapást szőrével\") that is used frequently in other contexts when one is trying to express that the solution to a problem is more of the problem. Among the Irish and Mexicans, the phrase 'The Cure' (\"curarse la cruda\", in Spanish) is often used instead of 'hair of the dog'. It is used, often sarcastically, in the question \"Going for a Cure?\" In Costa Rica (Central America), the same expression is used but it refers to a pig as in: hair of the same pig (\"pelos de la misma chancha\" in Central America) referring to the same method to cure the hangover.\n\nIn some Slavic languages (Polish, Bosnian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovenian and Russian), hair of the dog is called \"a wedge\" (\"klin\"), mirroring the concept of dislodging a stuck wedge with another one; hence the popular Polish phrase \"[to dislodge] a wedge [with] a wedge\" – \"[wybijać] klin klinem\" – which is used figuratively both with regard to alcohol and in other contexts. In Bulgarian, the phrase is \"Клин клин избива\". The proper Russian term is опохмелка (opohmelka, \"after being drunk\"), which indicates a process of drinking to decrease effects of drinking the day before.\n\nIn German, drinking alcohol the next morning to relieve the symptoms is sometimes described as \"having a counter-beer\" (ein Konterbier trinken), whereas in Austria people talk about having a repair-beer (Reparatur-Seidl). In Portuguese, people speak of \"a hit\" (uma rebatida), meaning to strike away (the hangover with more alcohol).\n\nA similar usage is encountered in Romanian, in the phrase \"Cui pe cui se scoate\" (\"A nail (fastener) pulls out a nail\"); in Italian, in the phrase \"Chiodo schiaccia chiodo\"; in Spanish, in the phrase \"Un clavo saca otro clavo\" (\"A nail pulls out another nail\"); and in Turkish, in the phrase \"Çivi çiviyi söker\". In all five cases, the English translation is \"a nail dislodges a nail\", though these phrases are not exclusively used to refer to the hangover cure.\n\nIn Swedish, drinking alcohol to relieve a hangover is called having an \"återställare\", which translates roughly to \"restorer\". In Norwegian, it is usually called \"repareringspils\", meaning a \"beer to repair\". In Finnish, it is called \"tasoittava\" (smoothening) or \"korjaussarja\" (repair kit) and in Czech \"vyprošťovák\" (extricator). In Tanzania, the equivalent Swahili phrase used is \"kuzimua\" which means 'assist to wake up after a coma'.\n\nIn Danish, a beer the day after drinking, is called a \"reparationsbajer\", which translates to \"repair beer\". There is also a saying: \"One must rise at the tree where one fell\".\n\nIn Korea, alcohol (typically soju) drunk in the morning to relieve hangovers is called \"haejangsul.\"\n\nIn China, alcohol drunk to relieve hangover is called \"回魂酒\", literally translates to \"the drink that brings back your soul\".The phrase also exists in (Cheng) Swahili Slang: In Kenya taking alcohol to relieve a hangover is called \" Kutoa Lock\" Translated into \"removing the Lock\"\n\nThere are at least two hypotheses as to how \"hair of the dog\" works:\n\nIn the first, hangovers are described as the first stage of alcohol withdrawal, which is then alleviated by further alcohol intake. Although \"...Low [ethanol] doses may effectively prevent alcohol withdrawal syndrome in surgical patients\", this idea is questionable as the signs and symptoms of hangover and alcohol withdrawal are very different.\n\nIn the second, hangovers are attributed to methanol metabolism. Levels of methanol, present as a congener in alcohol, have been correlated with severity of hangover and methanol metabolism to the highly toxic formate via formaldehyde coincides with the rate of appearance of hangover symptoms. As both ethanol and methanol are metabolised by alcohol dehydrogenase – and ethanol is a much better substrate for this enzyme – drinking more of the former then effectively prevents (or delays) the metabolism of the latter. As pure ethanol consumption has also been found to increase endogenous levels of methanol, presumably for this reason, this suggests that if \"hair of the dog\" works in this way it effects a temporary hiatus rather than a cure.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "545525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=545525", "title": "Health physics", "text": "Health physics\n\nHealth physics is the applied physics of radiation protection for health and health care purposes. It is the science concerned with the recognition, evaluation, and control of health hazards to permit the safe use and application of ionizing radiation. Health physics professionals promote excellence in the science and practice of radiation protection and safety. Health physicists principally work at facilities where radionuclides or other sources of ionizing radiation (such as X-ray generators) are used or produced; these include hospitals, government laboratories, academic and research institutions, nuclear power plants, regulatory agencies, and manufacturing plants.\n\nThere are many sub-specialties in the field of health physics, including\n\n\nThe subfield of operational health physics, also called applied health physics in older sources, focuses on field work and the practical application of health physics knowledge to real-world situations, rather than basic research.\n\nThe field of Health Physics is related to the field of medical physics and they are similar to each other in that practitioners rely on much of the same fundamental science (i.e., radiation physics, biology, etc.) in both fields. Health physicists, however, focus on the evaluation and protection of human health from radiation, whereas medical health physicists and medical physicists support the use of radiation and other physics-based technologies by medical practitioners for the diagnosis and treatment of disease.\n\nPractical ionising radiation measurement is essential for health physics. It enables the evaluation of protection measures, and the assessment of the radiation dose likely, or actually received by individuals. The provision of such instruments is normally controlled by law. In the UK it is the Ionising Radiation Regulations 1999.\n\nThe measuring instruments for radiation protection are both \"installed\" (in a fixed position) and portable (hand-held or transportable).\n\nInstalled instruments are fixed in positions which are known to be important in assessing the general radiation hazard in an area. Examples are installed \"area\" radiation monitors, Gamma interlock monitors, personnel exit monitors, and airborne contamination monitors.\n\nThe area monitor will measure the ambient radiation, usually X-Ray, Gamma or neutrons; these are radiations which can have significant radiation levels over a range in excess of tens of metres from their source, and thereby cover a wide area.\n\nInterlock monitors are used in applications to prevent inadvertent exposure of workers to an excess dose by preventing personnel access to an area when a high radiation level is present.\n\nAirborne contamination monitors measure the concentration of radioactive particles in the atmosphere to guard against radioactive particles being deposited in the lungs of personnel.\nPersonnel exit monitors are used to monitor workers who are exiting a \"contamination controlled\" or potentially contaminated area. These can be in the form of hand monitors, clothing frisk probes, or whole body monitors. These monitor the surface of the workers body and clothing to check if any radioactive contamination has been deposited. These generally measure alpha or beta or gamma, or combinations of these.\n\nThe UK National Physical Laboratory has published a good practice guide through its Ionising Radiation Metrology Forum concerning the provision of such equipment and the methodology of calculating the alarm levels to be used.\n\nPortable instruments are hand-held or transportable.\nThe hand-held instrument is generally used as a survey meter to check an object or person in detail, or assess an area where no installed instrumentation exists. They can also be used for personnel exit monitoring or personnel contamination checks in the field. These generally measure alpha, beta or gamma, or combinations of these.\n\nTransportable instruments are generally instruments that would have been permanently installed, but are temporarily placed in an area to provide continuous monitoring where it is likely there will be a hazard. Such instruments are often installed on trolleys to allow easy deployment, and are associated with temporary operational situations.\n\nA number of commonly used detection instruments are listed below.\n\n\nThe links should be followed for a fuller description of each.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the HSE has issued a user guidance note on selecting the correct radiation measurement instrument for the application concerned . This covers all ionising radiation instrument technologies, and is a useful comparative guide.\n\nDosimeters are devices worn by the user which measure the radiation dose that the user is receiving.\nCommon types of wearable dosimeters for ionizing radiation include:\n\nThe fundamental units do not take into account the amount of damage done to matter (especially living tissue) by ionizing radiation. This is more closely related to the amount of energy deposited rather than the charge. This is called the absorbed dose.\n\nEqual doses of different types or energies of radiation cause different amounts of damage to living tissue. For example, 1 Gy of alpha radiation causes about 20 times as much damage as 1 Gy of X-rays. Therefore, the equivalent dose was defined to give an approximate measure of the biological effect of radiation. It is calculated by multiplying the absorbed dose by a weighting factor W, which is different for each type of radiation (see table at Relative biological effectiveness#Standardization). This weighting factor is also called the Q (quality factor), or RBE (relative biological effectiveness of the radiation).\n\nFor comparison, the average 'background' dose of natural radiation received by a person per day, based on 2000 UNSCEAR estimate, makes BRET 6.6 μSv (660 μrem). However local exposures vary, with the yearly average in the US being around 3.6 mSv (360 mrem), and in a small area in India as high as 30 mSv (3 rem). The lethal full-body dose of radiation for a human is around 4–5 Sv (400–500 rem).\n\nIn 1898, The Röntgen Society (Currently the British Institute of Radiology) established a committee on X-ray injuries, thus initiating the discipline of radiation protection.\n\nAccording to Paul Frame:\n\"The term Health Physics is believed to have originated in the Metallurgical Laboratory at the University of Chicago in 1942, but the exact origin is unknown. The term was possibly coined by Robert Stone or Arthur Compton, since Stone was the head of the Health Division and Arthur Compton was the head of the Metallurgical Laboratory. The first task of the Health Physics Section was to design shielding for reactor CP-1 that Enrico Fermi was constructing, so the original HPs were mostly physicists trying to solve health-related problems. The explanation given by Robert Stone was that '...the term Health Physics has been used on the Plutonium Project to define that field in which physical methods are used to determine the existence of hazards to the health of personnel.'\n\nA variation was given by Raymond Finkle, a Health Division employee during this time frame. 'The coinage at first merely denoted the physics section of the Health Division... the name also served security: 'radiation protection' might arouse unwelcome interest; 'health physics' conveyed nothing.'\"\nThe following table shows radiation quantities in SI and non-SI units.\n\nAlthough the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission permits the use of the units curie, rad, and rem alongside SI units, the European Union European units of measurement directives required that their use for \"public health ... purposes\" be phased out by 31 December 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26481449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26481449", "title": "History of Brahmin diet", "text": "History of Brahmin diet\n\nVegetarianism is an integral part of most schools of Hinduism although there is a wide variety of practices and beliefs that have changed over time. Although some estimates put 80% to 90% of all Hindus as vegetarians, most of the surveys including one by the Office of Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India shows that 60% to 70%, or even more, of Indians as non-vegetarians. Since Hindus constitute almost 80% of Indian population, considering the above surveys, including the one from an official government source, it is mathematically improbable that 80% to 90% of the Hindus are vegetarians. Most sects of Hindus do not observe vegetarianism. Dietary habits and dietary customs were factors that have played roles in the formation, evolution and development of Indian caste system.\n\nThe earliest Hindu scriptures belong or refer to the Vedic period which lasted until about 500 BCE according to the chronological division by modern historians. In the historical Vedic religion of Hinduism.\n\nSeveral highly authoritative scriptures also bar violence against domestic animals except in the case of ritual sacrifice. This view is clearly expressed in the \"Mahabharata\" (3.199.11-12; 13.115; 13.116.26; 13.148.17), the \"Bhagavata Purana\" (11.5.13-14), and the Chandogya Upanishad (8.15.1). For instance, many Hindus point to the \"Mahabharata\"s maxim that \"Nonviolence is the highest duty and the highest teaching,\" as advocating a vegetarian diet. It is also reflected in the \"Manu Smriti\" (5.27-44), a particularly renowned traditional Hindu law book (Dharmaśāstra). These texts strongly condemn the slaughter of animals and meat eating.\n\nBaudhayana\n\nSome of the south Indian Brahmins during the \"sutra\" period, like those of North India were not meat eaters. \nStarting from the last few centuries B.C., Buddhism and Jainism contributed much to the belief that nonviolence is supremely valued which stimulated growing hostility to the slaughter of live animals.\n\nAs opposed to the popular views propagated by non-practicing Western and Indian sociologists and Indologists, the notion of Brahmin vegetarianism is not directly due to the influence of Buddhism or Jainism. Buddhism could not itself influence its followers to adhere to the idea of total ahimsa as most Buddhists from the times of the Buddha until today are meat eaters. Theravada Buddhist tradition interprets the last meal of Buddha offered by Cunda to be pork, to which they attach no stigma or see no violation of the ahimsa principle. Buddhist vegetarianism is a rare concept even in Buddhist countries like Myanmar and Thailand. Even Buddhism's most famous patron, Emperor Ashoka, did not ban killing of animals and birds in entirety. Rather, Ashoka's animal welfare policies only restricted the species of animals that can be killed for food in addition to banning ritual sacrifices of animals on the premise that it is wasteful. Vegetarianism never was a principle to be strictly adhered to in Buddhism and no social stigma was attached to Buddhists who ate meat even in India, the land of its origin. This is reasonably clear from the fact that the austerities of Jainism which includes the strictest form of vegetarianism long pre-dated Buddha's birth and did not apparently influence Buddha's eating habits after his enlightenment. Buddha and Buddhists continued to eat meat so long they were assured that the animal was not killed specifically for the feeding the bhikshus\n\nVegetarianism is generally true for the pancha-dravida brahmins like Iyers, Iyengars, Namboothiris, Telugu Brahmins of all sub-sects, Kannada Brahmins, Maharashtra, Gujarati and Rajasthani Brahmins. It is not as generally true for the pancha-gauda brahmins of North and East India. It is well known that the Bengali and Oriya Brahmins are meat eaters. While the Brahmins of the Ganga, Yamuna belt west of Bengal are generally vegetarians, we do see exceptions. Kashmiri Brahmins are said to be meat eaters.\n\nThe greatest influence on Brahmin diet has, by far, been the yoga sutras of Patanjali, which expounded the theory and practice of Raja Yoga. While there have been other schools of yoga, Raja yoga gained greatest prominence as it is suitable for a practitioner to remain a householder and yet transcend the eight stages of yoga (ashthanga yoga). Although ahimsa, among others, is mentioned as a part of \"yama,\" the first step of ashthanga yoga paddhati, it is generally viewed as an abstinence of mental animosity towards any living creature as one of the means to achieve stillness of mind. The concept of ahimsa has never been taken as an end in itself and certainly not to the level of the moral strictures of the Jains. Killing pests, dangerous animals and enemies of the nation are seen as virtuous acts as opposed to the hands-off philosophy of the Jains. General masses adopt the philosophies of Buddhism, Jainism and Vedanta interchangeably in a culture that integrated the Jain religion and deified Buddha in to the Hindu pantheon.\n\nThe proliferation of Raja yoga also brought with it the notions of spiritual purity of various kinds of food and their importance in practitioners' life. Various foods are categorized along the lines of the gunas that impact the spiritual progress of the practitioner. Accordingly, food is classified as Sattva, Rajas and Tamas based on the observed impact they have on spiritual progress. Sattvic diet is a diet based on foods in Ayurveda and Yoga literature that contain sattva quality (guna). In this system of dietary classification, foods that harm the mind or body are considered \"Tamasic\", while those that are neither positive or negative are considered \"Rajasic\". Sattvic diet is meant to include food and eating habit that is \"pure, essential, natural, vital, energy-containing, clean, conscious, true, honest, wise\". Sattvic diet is a regimen that places emphasis on seasonal foods, fruits, dairy products, nuts, seeds, oils, ripe vegetables, legumes, whole grains, and non-meat based proteins. Some Sattvic diet suggestions, such as its relative emphasis on dairy products, is controversial. Sattvic diet is sometimes referred to as yogic diet in modern literature. In ancient and medieval era Yoga literature, the concept discussed is Mitahara, which literally means \"moderation in eating\".\n\nSince the Brahmins are ordained to follow a lifestyle that ensures the spiritual progress of themselves and that of the society, they have adopted Sattvic diet. Kshatriyas and others who need to be physically and mentally engaged in the worldly affairs are allowed non-Sattvic diet, although they can choose to be vegetarians. For example, Vishwamitra, a meat eating Kshatriya, took to austerities as he aspired to become a Brahmarshi, whereas Parasurama, a brahmana, remained actively engaged in his war against the Kshatriyas. \n\nWhile the yogasutras of Patanjali are dated somewhere between 500 B.C. to 400 C.E., Patanjali was not the founder of the yogic school of philosophy. Rather, Patanjali drew upon the vedantic literature Like the Upanishads and Samkhya philosophy both of which have Vedic roots. The influence of Samkhya on yogasutras is so great that some scholars preferred not to distinguish yoga as separate from Samkhya, rather presented it as another form of Samkhya. More recent scholarship establishes the origins of Samkhya in the vicinity of 1500 B.C. noting its influence on Buddhist and Yoga schools of Indian philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "28332738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28332738", "title": "Hoople (mobility aid)", "text": "Hoople (mobility aid)\n\nA Hoople is a hoop-shaped mobility aid used by some blind and visually impaired people, and was designed to help them navigate their way over rough terrain or in a rural environment. It performs a similar role to a white cane, but is designed for use in conditions where using a white cane can be difficult, for example, in snow or on sand. It can also be used by young children as a pre-cane aid or by people with arthritis and other medical conditions which would make the use of a traditional cane difficult. The Hoople is designed to detect obstructions, much like cat's whiskers, through both tactile and audio feedback. Because the Hoople is moved along the ground rather than being moved from side to side like a cane the user can also detect drops two paces ahead, narrow gaps or similar potential obstructions on either side of the path ahead. The Hoople was invented in the early 1990s by Clive Ellis and Tony Larkin, two lecturers at the Royal National College for the Blind in Hereford, United Kingdom.\n\nThe Hoople is made to order with 5 different sizes available. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6864990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6864990", "title": "Immune-mediated inflammatory diseases", "text": "Immune-mediated inflammatory diseases\n\nAn immune-mediated inflammatory disease (IMID) is any of a group of conditions or diseases that lack a definitive etiology, but which are characterized by common inflammatory pathways leading to inflammation, and which may result from, or be triggered by, a dysregulation of the normal immune response. All IMIDs can cause end organ damage, and are associated with increased morbidity and/or mortality.\n\nInflammation is an important and growing area of biomedical research and health care because inflammation mediates and is the primary driver of many medical disorders and autoimmune diseases, including ankylosing spondylitis, psoriasis, psoriatic arthritis, Behcet's disease, arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), and allergy, as well as many cardiovascular, neuromuscular, and infectious diseases. Some current research even suggests that aging is a consequence, in part, of inflammatory processes.\n\nIMID is characterized by immune disregulation, and one underlying manifestation of this immune disregulation is the inappropriate activation of inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-12, IL-6 or TNF alpha, whose actions lead to pathological consequences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47569229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47569229", "title": "Inspiration porn", "text": "Inspiration porn\n\nInspiration porn is the portrayal of people who experience disability as inspirational solely or in part on the basis of their disability. The term was coined in 2012 by disability rights activist Stella Young in an editorial in Australian Broadcasting Corporation's webzine \"Ramp Up\" and further explored in her TEDx Talk. She rejected the idea that disabled people's otherwise ordinary activities should be considered extraordinary solely because of disability.\n\nCriticisms of inspiration porn include that it 'others' people who experience disability, that it portrays disability as a burden (as opposed to focusing on the societal obstacles that people who experience disability face), and that reducing people who experience disability to inspirations dehumanizes them. \n\nThe 2016 TV show \"Speechless\" explored the concept in an episode where it explains inspiration porn as \"[the] portrayal of people with disabilities as one dimensional; saying to only exist to warm the hearts and open the minds of able-bodied people.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10543241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10543241", "title": "International Society of Acupuncture", "text": "International Society of Acupuncture\n\nThe International Society of Acupuncture (Societe Internationale d’Acupuncture) is an international acupuncture research society, based in Paris, France.\n\nIt is a very large building housing many students and researchers as well as staff members and technicians.\n\nThe society is well known for its research and development in alternative medicine. It has several wings in other countries, and is always available for complementary and alternative medicine work research. It has researched in veterinary medicine as well as other functions of complementary medicine.\n\n"}
{"id": "2283664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2283664", "title": "Julio Frenk", "text": "Julio Frenk\n\nJulio José Frenk Mora (born December 20, 1953) is a Mexican physician and former secretary of Health of Mexico. Frenk is currently the president of the University of Miami. He is the University of Miami's first Hispanic and native Spanish-speaking president. Frenk formerly served as dean of the faculty and T & G Angelopoulos professor of public health and international development at the Harvard School of Public Health, from 2009-2015, where he had been the university's first Hispanic and native Spanish-speaking dean.\n\nFrenk was born in Mexico City, Mexico, on December 20, 1953. His father and grandfather, a Jew who fled to Mexico from Nazi Germany, were both physicians. He received his medical degree, in 1979, from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) and went on to obtain three additional advanced degrees: a Master of Public Health (1981), a Master of Arts in sociology (1982), and a joint Doctor of Philosophy in medical care organization and in sociology (1983), from the University of Michigan.\n\nHis professional career began in 1984, when Frenk assumed the position of founding director of the Centre of Public Health Research, Ministry of Health of Mexico, a role he held until 1987. Following that appointment, he went on to serve as the founding director-general of the National Institute of Public Health of Mexico, from 1987 to 1992. From 1995 to 1998, he served as the executive vice president of the Mexican Health Foundation, a private non-profit organization, and the director of its Centre for Health and the Economy. In 1998, he was designated executive director of evidence and information for policy at the World Health Organization (WHO), in Geneva, Switzerland.\n\nFollowing the election of Vicente Fox in Mexico's 2000 presidential election, Frenk was appointed minister of health of Mexico, a position he held until December 2006.\n\nFollowing his service as minister of health, Frenk was tapped to serve as senior fellow in the global health program of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation where he counseled the foundation on global health issues and strategies.\n\nIn addition to his many executive positions, Frenk has served in several academic roles including, senior researcher at the National Institute of Public Health and adjunct professor at the faculty of medicine of the National University of Mexico. He was also awarded the position of national researcher. In 1992–1993, he was visiting professor at the Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies.\n\nHe is the author of 28 books and monographs and many articles in academic journals, as well as in cultural magazines and newspapers. He is also a member of the editorial boards of ten international journals and a member of twelve scientific and professional associations, including the National Academy of Medicine of Mexico and the United States Institute of Medicine. \n\nIn 2003, while serving as minister of health of Mexico, Frenk introduced Seguro Popular, a program of comprehensive national health insurance which expanded access to health care for tens of millions of previously uninsured Mexicans. One test of any national healthcare delivery program is its durability after the key architects of the plan are no longer in power; Seguro Popular is still operating in late 2016.\n\nIn 2004, Frenk was criticized by tobacco control advocates for cutting an unusual deal with tobacco companies. Philip Morris and British America Tobacco agreed to donate $400 million for health programs in Mexico over 2½ years, but reserved the right to cancel the donation if cigarette taxes were raised\n\nOn July 2005, Frenk met the opposition of Interior Secretary Carlos Abascal, a conservative Catholic, because of the decision of the Ministry of Health to distribute the morning-after pill at government health clinics.\n\nShortly after Norberto Rivera Carrera, the archbishop of Mexico City, declared that the introduction of the pill should not be made without public debate, Abascal announced debates would be held. However, Frenk denied the existence of any planned reversal of the distribution of the pill. Women's rights groups applauded the decision, while anti-abortion activists and the Catholic Church strongly denounced the pill, as abortive.\n\nIn September 2006, the Mexican government put Frenk's name forward as a candidate for the vacant position of director-general of the World Health Organization. The British medical journal The Lancet published an editorial endorsing Frenk as the best candidate, while The Wall Street Journal reported that the controversial tobacco deal could hurt his chances for election. The WHO position was awarded to Dr. Margaret Chan, in November 2006.\n\nAfter failing to win the WHO post, Frenk assumed the position of head of the Carso Health Institute, a private, nonprofit center aimed at helping Latin America's poor. \n\nIn July 2010, Frenk joined the board of the Commonwealth Fund.\n\nFrenk assumed the presidency of the University of Miami, on August 16, 2015, a position formerly held by Donna Shalala. He was officially inaugurated on January 29, 2016. He co-edited a collection of nonfiction essays on the subject of global health entitled \"To Save Humanity,\" which includes work from contributors as varied as Michelle Bachelet, Larry Summers, Elton John and himself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10022529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10022529", "title": "Julius Fromm", "text": "Julius Fromm\n\nJulius Fromm (4 March 1883 – 12 May 1945) was a Polish-German entrepreneur, chemist and inventor of a process for making condoms from liquefied rubber.\n\nFromm was born in Konin, Poland, to a Jewish family, which was part of the Russian Empire at the time. When he was ten years old his family left for Berlin in search of a better life there. There, the family made a living by rolling cigarettes as many Eastern European Jews of Berlin did at the time. Julius's parents died young, so he was forced to take care of himself and his six siblings from the age of fifteen. As mechanization gradually replaced manual production, Fromm started attending evening classes in chemistry.\n\nWith World War I, Germany experienced a rapid liberalization of sexual values and sexually transmitted diseases spread rapidly. During this time, the majority of condoms were still made of \"skin\": chemically treated intestine or bladder. Rubber condoms were also available; they were made by wrapping raw rubber sheets around molds, then dipping them in a solution to vulcanize the rubber. In 1912, Fromm invented the \"cement dipping\" method, which made a thinner, seamless condom. Instead of working with rubber as a solid material, it was mixed with gasoline or benzene. This made it a liquid in which molds could be dipped. Fromm patented his invention in 1916. Mass production started in 1922 and was a great success—\"Fromms Act\", as they were called, becoming the first brand-name condoms—which allowed the entrepreneur soon to open up branches in Denmark, the United Kingdom, Poland, and the Netherlands. \"Fromms\" became a synonym for \"condom\" in Germany. In 1920 Fromm was naturalized a German citizen. In 1928, the first condom vending machines were installed by Fromm's company, but the interior ministry only allowed it to advertise the hygienic advantages of condoms, not the condom's use as a contraceptive, because it feared a further decrease of the birth rate.\n\nIn 1938, however, under Nazi rule, the government forced Fromm to sell his factories for 116,000 Reichsmark, a fraction of their real value, to Baroness Elisabeth von Epenstein, Hermann Göring's godmother. In return Epenstein gave two castles, Veldenstein and Mauterndorf, to Göring. A year later he emigrated to London, where he died on 12 May 1945. Fromm's estate, which was worth the equivalent of approximately 30 million Euros, had already been auctioned off on 17 May 1943 for 2,255 Reichsmark, though many items including a grand piano, plates, and his library had already been bought or stolen before.\n\nFromms' factory in Köpenick was almost completely destroyed by Allied Air raids, the remaining machinery was shipped to the Soviet Union, as it lay in the Soviet sector of Berlin. The Friedrichshagen factory continued to produce condoms, especially for the Red Army. \nThe factories would have been returned to Fromm's family according to the Potsdam Agreement, however the company was nationalized by the Communist government, as Julius Fromm was regarded a “Jewish proprietor, capitalist exploiter, anti-social, anti-labour and pro-Nazi”.\n\nIn East Germany Fromms condoms were produced by the Volkseigener Betrieb \"Plastina\", the brand was renamed to \"Mondos\".\n\nin West Germany, Julius Fromm's son Herbert Fromm was forced to pay 174,000 Marks to Otto Metz-Randa for the rights to the name \"Fromm\". Metz-Randa, Elisabeth von Epenstein's lover, had acquired these rights after the death of Göring's godfather, and managed to transform himself from a profiteer of \"Entjudung\" (de-jewification) to a victim of the National Socialist regime. Herbert Fromm licensed a Bremen company to produce \"Fromms\" condoms, which—now called Mapa—produces them to the present day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7719802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7719802", "title": "Lauren Alloy", "text": "Lauren Alloy\n\nLauren B. Alloy is a professor of psychology at Temple University and is recognized in the area of mood disorders. Her research focuses on cognitive, interpersonal, and biopsychosocial processes in the onset and maintenance of depression and bipolar disorder. In the late 1970s, Alloy and her longtime collaborator Lyn Yvonne Abramson demonstrated that depressed individuals held a more accurate view than their non-depressed counterparts in a test which measured illusion of control. This finding held true even when the depression was manipulated experimentally (see also depressive realism).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36826513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36826513", "title": "Lazzaretto of Ancona", "text": "Lazzaretto of Ancona\n\nThe Lazzaretto of Ancona, also called the Mole Vanvitelliana, is an 18th-century building constructed on an artificial island for the purpose of serving as quarantine station and Leprosarium for the port town of Ancona, Italy.\n\nThe pentagonal building rises on an artificial island in the port which is now connected to the mainland by three bridges. It was a project commissioned by Pope Clement XII, designed by the architect Luigi Vanvitelli, and built (1733−1743). It has originally had no land link to the mainland. A well was located in the central Neoclassical tempietto dedicated to Saint Roch, patron of lepers, in the center of the courtyard. It was built to house possibly infected travellers and goods arriving in the port, as well as lepers.\n\nWhile the term lazaretto has been interpreted by some as merely a \"quarantine station for maritime travellers\", for centuries it was the term used to refer to lazar house (Leprosarium or Leper colony), referring to the one of the two New Testament persons named \"Lazarus\" ().\n\nOver the years, the site has taken different functions, mainly as a military citadel since the 19th century. During World War I, there was a failed attempt to sabotage the Italian naval resources by 60 infiltrating Habsburg sailors. Now it is used as a site of the museum \"Tattile Omero\", as well as home for various exhibitions.\n\nIt is not clear why a pentagonal shape was chosen for the building. However, the rationalistic and functional ensemble is common to many works of late Enlightenment architecture. The simple but elegant style somehow seeks to redeem the intended, but somewhat sordid purpose; and in this case, enlightened architecture for a less enlightened aim of segregating the elements of the populace that could be viewed as pestilent. The efforts of this work can be compared to the contemporary architecture of institutions meant to provide geometrically compelling structures to house services for the poor in Naples by Fernando Fuga, such as the massive Royal Hospice and Hospital for the Poor and the mathematical Cemetery of the 366 Fossae.\n\n"}
{"id": "25489768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25489768", "title": "List of circulatory system conditions", "text": "List of circulatory system conditions\n\nThere are many conditions of or affecting the human circulatory system — the biological system that includes the pumping and channeling of blood to and from the body and lungs with heart, blood and blood vessels.\n\n\n\"See also \"\n\n\"See also \"\n\n\n\n\"See also \"\n\n\"See also \"\n\n\"See also \"\n"}
{"id": "57902381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57902381", "title": "Metastasis Research Society", "text": "Metastasis Research Society\n\nThe Metastasis Research Society (MRS) is an international professional society dedicated to metastasis research and treatment. Headquartered in Tampa, Florida, the MRS was formed in 1974 as the E.O.R.T.C. Metastasis Club by Bavarian clinical pharmacologist Kurt Hellmann and Director of the Mario Negri Institute for Pharmacological Research Silvio Garattini. It took its current name in the mid-1980s, with its first international meeting as a formal society in 1984 in London.\n\nThe MRS publishes several journals, including \"Clinical & Experimental Metastasis\", \"Angiogenesis\", and \"Cancer and Metastasis Reviews\". \"Cancer and Metastasis Reviews\", which has an impact factor of 6.081 in 2018, launched in 1982 to critically review and discuss challenges around cancer studies and therapeutic research. \"Clinical & Experimental Metastasis\" was launched 1983 and has an impact factor of 3.455 as of 2018. The journal covers metastasis research in multiple disciplines that focus on preventing and treating metastasis formation. \"Angiogenesis\" was launched in 1997 as a multidisciplinary rapid disseminator of information about the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which angiogenesis is controlled. As of 2018, it has an impact factor of 4.351. \n\nThe society sponsors a biennial International Metastasis Research Congress where it presents its highest award, the Paget-Ewing Award for excellent research in cancer metastasis. Named for Stephen Paget and James Ewing, the first awards were bestowed on Dale Rex Cowan and Irwing Zeidman for their pioneering work in the field at the 2nd International Metastasis Congress in Heidelberg in 1988, an event attended by 400 scientists from 22 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "49051658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49051658", "title": "My Diet Is Better Than Yours", "text": "My Diet Is Better Than Yours\n\nMy Diet Is Better Than Yours is an American reality competition television series which premiered on ABC on January 7, 2016. The weight-loss series features five contestants who each picks a trainer and a type of diet that they believe are the most suitable for them; the competitors subsequently drop their trainers in the elimination process if the results are not satisfactory.\n\nThe trainers, their background and their method of dieting chosen throughout the program are:\n\n"}
{"id": "14061581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14061581", "title": "National Matching Service", "text": "National Matching Service\n\nNational Matching Services (NMS) specializes in the development and administration of Matching Programs. NMS was founded in 1985, after developing sophisticated matching algorithms and software for the placement of physicians into residencies in the US. Since then, NMS has implemented Matching Programs in a number of industries and professions, including osteopathic medicine, psychology, dentistry, pharmacy, and optometry. NMS is headquartered in Toronto.\n\nMatching Programs place applicants into positions based on lists of preferred choices submitted by applicants and recruiters. A Matching Program eliminates premature decisions based on incomplete information by allowing all offers, acceptances or rejections to occur at the same time. Therefore many common adverse situations are eliminated from the recruitment process, such as applicants hoarding multiple offers, applicants reneging on a prior acceptance in order to accept a more preferred subsequent offer, and recruiters overfilling the number of positions available. Applicants and recruiters benefit from having full choice of all potential placements. The best strategy for both applicants and recruiters is to submit preference lists that reflect their true preferences.\n"}
{"id": "46775885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46775885", "title": "NoFap", "text": "NoFap\n\nNoFap is a website and community forum that serves as a support group for those who wish to avoid pornography and masturbation. Its name comes from the slang term \"fap\", referring to male masturbation.\n\nNoFap was founded in June 2011 by Alexander Rhodes after a thread on Reddit about a 2003 Chinese study that found that men who refrain from masturbation for seven days experience a 145.7% spike in testosterone levels on the seventh day. This hit the front page of a popular forum on Reddit. Alexander Rhodes appears in the documentary written and directed by Nicholas Tana called \"\", in which he discusses his findings and his opinions about masturbation.\n\nAfter this, Rhodes created NoFap as a \"subreddit\" forum community on Reddit. At first, NoFap ran weekly and monthly challenges for a small group of people on the forum, and then the NoFap administrators created a day counter system. Now forum members set their own challenges based upon their own personal goals. The endeavour is sometimes referred to as \"fapstinence\".\n\nUsers on NoFap's subreddit more than tripled in number in two years, leading Rhodes to build an off-Reddit forum at NoFap.com and begin other plans to better serve the website's fast-growing factions in Brazil, Germany, and China. NoFap.com is a forum-style website where individuals who have committed to abstain from pornography and masturbation for a period of time can talk about their experiences and engage in challenges to help them recover. NoFap.com is the sister website of the Reddit-hosted NoFap community.\n\nThe membership of NoFap ranges from atheists, like founder Rhodes, to fundamentalist Christians. Women are also a part of NoFap. The users of the website call themselves \"Fapstronauts.\" Some correspondents have nicknamed NoFap's community members as \"NoFappers.\" Some self-described porn addicts seek out NoFap for help, while others join the website for the challenge or to improve their lives and interpersonal relationships.\n\nAfter abstaining from porn and masturbation for a period of time, some of NoFap's users claim to experience \"dramatic increases in social confidence, energy, concentration, mental acuity, motivation, self-esteem, emotional stability, happiness, sexual prowess, and attractiveness to the opposite sex\". Some NoFap users say their brains were warped by porn, at the expense of real relationships.\n\nNofap hosts a wide variety of different opinions on sexual health, and supports users with various goals as long they are trying to improve their sexual health. NoFap techniques are sometimes cited as an improvement method by members of the manosphere.\n\nSome journalists have criticized NoFap, several after having participated in its programs. According to Elizabeth Brown, neuroscientists have questioned some of the claims made by people on NoFap. One psychologist, David J. Ley, wrote: \"I'm not in opposition to them, but I do think their ideas are simplistic, naive and promote a sad, reductionistic and distorted view of male sexuality and masculinity\". Sociologists Kris Taylor and Sue Jackson analyzed the content of NoFap's forums and found it to be hypermasculine and misogynistic.\n\nBehavioral scientists have used statistics gathered from NoFap to study addiction. Robert Weiss of \"The Huffington Post\" sees NoFap as part of a tech backlash. The endeavor has also been criticized as generating embarrassing side effects such as prolonged or unwanted erections in men or an excessive libido.\n\nThe Reddit-based PornFree group is similar to NoFap, focusing on giving up porn rather than masturbation and mainly on overcoming addiction.\n\nThe medical consensus is that there is no harm from normal masturbation practices. According to the Merck Manual of Diagnosis and Therapy, \"It is considered abnormal only when it inhibits partner-oriented behavior, is done in public, or is sufficiently compulsive to cause distress.\" In the US, masturbation was a diagnosable psychological condition until DSM II (1968). The American Medical Association declared masturbation as normal by consensus in 1972. Masturbation does not deplete one's body of energy or produce premature ejaculation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5975457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5975457", "title": "Norsk Luftambulanse", "text": "Norsk Luftambulanse\n\nStiftelsen Norsk Luftambulanse (\"Norwegian Air Ambulance Foundation\", NLA) is a Norwegian humanitarian organisation, organised as a non-profit foundation. It primarily promotes and operates helicopter air ambulance services. , they operate seven Eurocopter EC135 and one EC145 helicopters out of seven bases in Norway, based on contracts with the state through the Norwegian Air Ambulance. In Denmark, they operate three EC135 out of three bases.\n\nThe foundation carries out charitable work, including providing additional funding for all helicopter ambulances in Norway to increase their medical equipment. It also funds research within emergency medicine and operates a service to fly its members home in case of illness. With 706,000, it is the organization in Norway with the most members. Operations are carried out through the subsidiary Norsk Luftambulanse AS.\n\nEstablished in 1977 by Jens Moe, operations out of Lørenskog Heliport, Central Hospital started the following year. The services out of Stavanger commenced in 1981. The state funding started in 1988, after which NLA established the bases at Bergen and Trondheim. NLS later won contracts to operate out of Arendal, Ål, Dombås, and Førde.\n\nA government commission which published its results in 1977 considered the possibility for a helicopter-based air ambulance service. They concluded that although there could be benefits with a service, the cost would have to weighed up with other health activities. The commission also commented on that the helicopters would lay hold on a large number of physicians.\n\nParallel with this work the Drøbak-based Jens Moe started working with plans to establish a helicopter ambulance service. He was inspired by the systems applied in West Germany and Switzerland, run by ADAC and Rega. This model involved manning the helicopter with an anesthesiologist, a rescue swimmer and a pilot. Since the late 1960s he had been working for an improved ambulance service, which he wanted manned with anesthesiologists or anesthesia nurses.\n\nNorsk Luftambulanse AS was incorporated on 6 November 1977, originally with Moe, Fred Øistein Andersen and Ingvar Vilfladt as shareholders. However, they were in need of funding and decided to establish a foundation which would own the operating company and fund it through charitable donations. They decided to follow the example of the German Björn-Steiger-Stiftung and name the foundation after a patient who probably would have lived with quicker response times. They identified the nine-year-old Bård Østgaard who drowned in Groruddammen in Oslo in August 1975. The parents were sceptical, but hesitantly agreed to the naming scheme. Within a few weeks Moe had organized a 700,000 Norwegian krone loan from Storebrand. On 26 November 1977, Bård Østgaards Stiftelse was incorporated.\n\nInitially the foundation started fund-raising to run a one-year trial with a helicopter based near Oslo. Moe and Andersen held a meeting with Minister of Social Affairs Ruth Ryste. Although she saw the advantages of the case, she could not support it. A major concern was that the service would be provided in Eastern Norway, the most densely populated part of the country. She stated if such a service was adapted, it should be provided equally throughout the country and the Western Norway or Northern Norway would be more natural areas to start, with longer distances and poor infrastructure.\n\nInstead Moe turned to the Norwegian Automobile Federation (NAF), which in 1975 had attempted to start a similar project in Moss in cooperation with the Norwegian Armed Forces' medical services. They cooperated in 1977 and brought an ADAC helicopter to various sites in Eastern Norway. By indicated that each location was a possible candidate for a base, they were able to garnish support from the various local newspapers. However, NAF did not have funds to follow through on the project and pulled out. Instead Moe approached LHL, which supported their plans. They bought shares in the operating company and issued a guarantee, in exchange for a seat on the board.\n\nThe foundation sent out 850,000 brochures to recruit members. Costing half a million krone, it brought in 3000 members. They chartered a Rega helicopter which they toured Eastern Norway. On 11 March they were had a demonstration at Holmenkollbakken, when a group of youth were hit by an avalanche at Norefjell. The helicopter was immediately dispatched and participated in the rescue. Erik Berge was hired as managing director and his main task was to recruit members. By the end of 1978, the organization had 13,700 members.\n\nTo make membership more attractive, NLA cooperated with Rega to provide free flights home for its members under given conditions, using Rega's aircraft. An operations center was established in Drøbak. It gradually developed more as an advisory call center, focusing on giving members advise either before travel or after incidents had occurred. The base was later moved to Lørenskog and the division was named Global Medical Services (GMS).\n\nNorsk Luftambulanse started discussions with Akershus County Municipality, who were positive to the service.\nThis resulted in Akershus Central Hospital (SiA, today Ahus) being selected as the initial base. NLA's first helicopter was a Messerschmitt-Bölkow-Blohm Bo 105 which was leased from the manufacturer and named \"Bård 1\". To aid funding, it received advertisements. The service was inaugurated on 7 June 1978. Although SiA received a heliport, no helipads were built at Rikshospitalet in Oslo. Therefore, NLA often had to land at Bislett Stadion and transfer patients to an ambulance there.\n\nNLA did not have an air operator's certificate to begin with and subcontracted operations to Mørefly. They received NOK 180,000 per month, In addition came the costs for medical personnel, the base and medical equipment. LHL retracted their support in February 1979, citing poor administration. They subsequently sold their shares in the operating company to the foundation. Also Endre Bolsø, Østgaards' stepfather and chairman of the board, criticized the lack of financial control. From 1 May 1979 they therefore switched operator to Partnair. They proposed moving the base to Oslo Airport, Fornebu to cut costs, but this was rejected.\n\nThe Ministry of Social Affairs evaluated the helicopter ambulance service after a year. They carried out 216 missions, of which the commission found that five instances where the air ambulance had been decisive to rescue the person's life and avoid permanent injury. They concluded that the helicopter was profitable for society, but did not find it to be optimal use of limited resources in the health sector. It concluded that a service would only be efficient if located on-site at a hospital with quick scrambling of anesthesiologist, where it was well-coordinated with ground ambulance services and emergency communications, and in densely populated areas.\n\nBy February 1980 Bolsø and Østegaard's mother were sufficiently fed up with the situation that they asked that the foundation remove Østgaard's name from its name. This was followed up and on 17 June 1980 the foundation took its current name. The same year NLA received its own air operator's certificate.\n\nThe section initiative to build a base took place at Rogaland Central Hospital in Stavanger. As in Akershus there were mixed reactions towards the service. Twenty-three municipalities in three counties gave financial support, as did a series of companies. Rogaland County Municipality approved the plans, but did not provide funding. The main area of dispute was whether helicopters were cost-efficient, and whether the money would not instead be better utilized in other pre-hospital tasks. The project did not receive the support of the Directorate of Health. Stavanger Heliport, Central Hospital opened on 4 June 1981.\n\nA government commission looked into the air ambulance organization in 1982. It recommended that the county municipalities take responsibility for the services in the same way the funded and operated the conventional ambulance services. However, the counties were not necessarily a natural border, so it would require inter-county cooperation. The Ministry of Social Affairs concluded that the counties were not large enough to support such a service and therefore proposed a national organization, where the counties paid part of the cost. The national coordination was placed with the National Insurance Service.\n\nDuring Easter NLA assigned special preparedness for mountainous areas. This resulted in a series of \"Easter bases\" equipped for the week. The first was in Beitostølen in 1982. The following years this base was situated at Rjukan; Dombås; Fagernes Airport, Leirin; and Geilo Airport, Dagali, respectively.\n\nA new government commission investigated the issue in 1986. The background was doubling of both costs and use of fixed-wing and rotor-craft air ambulance use between 1982 and 1985. A major contributor was the lack of physicians in Finnmark. The commission recommended that eight bases be established. In addition to Lørenskog and Stavanger, new bases would be established in Tromsø, Brønnøysund, Trondheim, Ålesund, Bergen and Dombås. The plan was carried through and the new bases became operative as of 1988. Funding was secured by the state, while the county municipalities were responsible for the respective medial personnel. The aviation operations were subcontracted to commercial airlines. The new system was named the State's Air Ambulance.\n\nFifteen companies bid to operate the various helicopter contracts. In addition to keeping its operations in Lørenskog and Stavanger, NLA was awarded the contract for Trondheim, Bergen and Dombås. Trondheim was well covered by the 330 Squadron from Ørland Main Air Station, and therefore there been a debate if another helicopter would be cost-efficient. Initial plans called for a base at Trondheim Regional Hospital, but instead Trondheim Heliport, Rosten was placed near Tiller.\nNLA station a helicopter in Lesja for the National Shooting Competition in 1985. The local communities in northern Gudbrandsdalen therefore started working to receive their own base. The quickly opted for Dombås, as it was the center of the district. With local funding, the state gave permission to open a base from 1 January 1988. A facility was built at the municipal medical center, with Dovre Municipality and Lesja Municipality paying for the construction. However, a more suitable base was needed and a new heliport opened on 8 March 1991.\n\nIn Bergen it was not possible to establish a helipad at the hospital. Instead Bergen Heliport, Nygårdstangen was built, close to the city center. From there patients were transported by ambulance to Haukeland Hospital. The helicopters would on occasion land on a lot at the hospital, although the physician had to claim necessity as the site lacked certification.\n\nDuring the summer of 1986 NLA stationed its reserve helicopter in Arendal. This proved popular and they continued to have a temporary base their each summer. The commission stated that Agder and Telemark were well within the catchment areas of Stavanger and Lørenskog. When the national commission decided not to establish a base in Agder, several local agencies started working to establish a permanent base anyway. This also resulted in a local location struggle. Vest-Agder County Municipality argued that the base should be situated at Vest-Agder Central Hospital in Kristiansand, while Aust-Agder County Municipality wanted it at Aust-Agder Central Hospital in Arendal. Parliament approved the Arendal Heliport, Hospital, allowing it to start operations in 1991.\n\nIn Northern Norway there had since the 1930s been operated fixed-wing seaplane ambulances. These were often flowing in a combination of ambulance and charter services. In the public procurement process, NLA allied themselves with Widerøe and Air Express. The latter two would operate the aircraft, while NLA would man them with medical personnel. The consortium won the contracts for Tromsø Airport, Alta Airport and Kirkenes Airport, Høybuktmoen. NLA established a Northern Norway operations central at Widerøe's offices at Bodø Airport.\n\nDue to a strenuous cooperation with Air Express, NLA decided to establish a fixed-wing division in 1989. This included taking over the two aircraft at Kirkenes and the jet used for international flights at Oslo Airport, Fornebu. For this work NLA bought a Cessna Citation II, when they operated between 1989 and 1995.\nFørde Heliport, Central Hospital was established in 1992 and the contract was issued to Airlift. In 1993 there was a new contract tender, and Airlift won the operations out of Førde, Bergen and Dombås. Within NLA there was a debate as to whether to treat Airlift as a competitor or to cooperate with them. A deal was struck and NLA bought 34 percent of the company. Later it bought a further 32 percent, but later sold the shares again. In 1994 NLA lost the contract to operate fixed-wing aircraft in Kirkenes to Mørefly.\n\nThe Easter bases spurred interest amongst locals in the interior valleys of Buskerud, Oppdal and Telemark to receive a permanent helicopter ambulance service. Political work started in 1992, but the Ministry of Social Affairs did not prioritize it in its 1994 budget. However, this resulted in a series of political initiatives from the area and when Parliament voted over the budget, grants had been allocated for Ål Heliport. Operations commenced on 1 September 1994. The same year NLA stationed a helicopter in Lillehammer for the duration of the 1994 Winter Olympics.\nThe tender for operations after 2001 resulted in NLA losing the operating rights for Arendal, Ål and Dombås, while it won back the operations in Bergen. With the hospital reform which took effect 1 January 2002, the coordinating responsibility for hospitals was allocated to the five regional health authorities. They created the National Air Ambulance Service in 2004. GMS was moved to Ullevål University Hospital in Oslo in 2002. In March 2006 NLA the results of a new tender were announced. NLA kept its existing bases and was also awarded the contract for Arendal, Ål an Dombås from 2008 to 2014 or 2018.\n\nNLA bought the Swedish air ambulance operator SOS Flygambulans from SOS Alarm in May 2004 and renamed it Svensk Flygambulans. The subsidiary was based at Gothenburg City Airport and operated three fixed-wing aircraft. NLA saw it as a strategic move to expand its operations both geographically, as well as making them able to enter the fixed-wing market. NLA sold Svensk Flygambulans to Scandinavian Air Ambulance in August 2008.\n\nCentral Hålogaland was the most densely populated district of Norway lacking a helicopter ambulance service. The National Air Ambulance Service therefore issued a tender in 2014 to establish a base at Harstad/Narvik Airport, Evenes. The tender was won by NLA, who started operations in May 2015. The base was manned with an EC145.\n\nDenmark introduced a trial with helicopter ambulances in 2011. After the trial period, they announced in October 2013 that NLA had won a six-year contract to operate the new national air ambulance service, with an option to expand the contract to nine years. If executed, the contract is worth one billion Danish krone. The contract was made with Regions Denmark, a cooperation between the five regions of Denmark.\n\nStiftelsen Norsk Luftambulanse is a non-profit foundation based in Drøbak. It has 706,000 members, making it the largest organization in Norway by number of members. The foundation provides funding for all heliports, independent of operator, to be equipped with a ambulance emergency response vehicle with similar equipment to that which is installed in the helicopters. The vehicles are used when the anesthesiologists are needed at accidents near the heliport, in which road transport is faster or more convenient than the helicopter. Donations are used to support research within emergency medicine. NLA has at any time twenty people working on doctoral dissertations in the field.\n\nMembers of the foundation are entitled advise from NLA's Global Medical Services, situated at Ullevål University Hospital. The center can be used both for advice before travel and after sickness or accidents have occurred. Granted that the member has valid travel insurance, NLA may under given circumstances dispatch a nurse to aid the patient. NLA provides free first-aid courses for its members. The foundation also publishes a quarterly membership magazine, \"Magasin\".\n\nNorsk Luftambulanse AS is a limited company wholly owned by the foundation that operate ambulance helicopters for the National Air Ambulance Service. It operates ten helicopters, consisting of eleven Eurocopter EC135P2+ and two Eurocopter EC145 T2. These operate out of eight bases in Norway and three in Denmark. The company had a revenue of NOK 216 million in 2009 and had 100 employees.\n\n"}
{"id": "5524019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5524019", "title": "Pathfinder network", "text": "Pathfinder network\n\nA pathfinder network is a psychometric scaling method based on graph theory and used in the study of expertise, knowledge acquisition, knowledge engineering, scientific citation patterns, information retrieval, and data visualization. Pathfinder networks are potentially applicable to any problem addressed by network theory.\n\nSeveral psychometric scaling methods start from proximity data and yield structures revealing the underlying organization of the data. Data clustering and multidimensional scaling are two such methods. Network scaling represents another method based on graph theory. Pathfinder networks are derived from proximities for pairs of entities.\n\nProximities can be obtained from similarities, correlations, distances, conditional probabilities, or any other measure of the relationships among entities. The entities are often concepts of some sort, but they can be anything with a pattern of relationships.\n\nIn the pathfinder network, the entities correspond to the nodes of the generated network, and the links in the network are determined by the patterns of proximities. For example, if the proximities are similarities, links will generally connect nodes of high similarity. The links in the network will be undirected if the proximities are symmetrical for every pair of entities. Symmetrical proximities mean that the order of the entities is not important, so the proximity of \"i\" and \"j\" is the same as the proximity of \"j\" and \"i\" for all pairs \"i,j\". If the proximities are not symmetrical for every pair, the links will be directed.\n\nHere is an example of an undirected pathfinder network derived from average similarity ratings of a group of biology graduate students. The students rated the relatedness of all pairs of the terms shown, and the mean rating for each pair was computed. The network shown is the PFnet(2, ∞).\n\nThe pathfinder algorithm uses two parameters.\n\nA network generated with particular values of \"q\" and \"r\" is called a PFnet(\"q\", \"r\"). Both of the parameters have the effect of decreasing the number of links in the network as their values are increased. The network with the minimum number of links is obtained when \"q\" = \"n\" − 1 and \"r\" = ∞, i.e., PFnet(\"n\" − 1, ∞).\n\nWith ordinal-scale data (see level of measurement), the r-parameter should be infinity because the same PFnet would result from any positive monotonic transformation of the proximity data. Other values of \"r\" require data measured on a ratio scale. The \"q\" parameter can be varied to yield the desired number of links in the network.\n\nEssentially, pathfinder networks preserve the shortest possible paths given the data so links are eliminated when they are not on shortest paths. The PFnet(\"n\" − 1, ∞) will be the minimum spanning tree for the links defined by the proximity data if a unique minimum spanning tree exists. In general, the PFnet(\"n\" − 1, ∞) includes all of the links in any minimum spanning tree.\n\nFurther information on pathfinder networks and several examples of the application of PFnets to a variety of problems can be found in:\n\n\nA shorter article summarizing pathfinder networks:\n\n\nThree papers describing fast implementations of pathfinder networks:\n\n"}
{"id": "6300466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6300466", "title": "Plasticulture", "text": "Plasticulture\n\nThe term plasticulture refers to the practice of using plastic materials in agricultural applications. \n\nThe plastic materials themselves are often and broadly referred to as \"ag plastics.\" Plasticulture ag plastics include soil fumigation film, irrigation drip tape/tubing, nursery pots and silage bags, but the term is most often used to describe all kinds of plastic plant/soil coverings. Such coverings range from plastic mulch film, row coverings, high and low tunnels (polytunnels), to plastic greenhouses.\n\nPolyethylene (PE) is the plastic film used by the majority of growers because of its affordability, flexibility and easy manufacturing. It comes in a variety of thicknesses, such as a low density form (LDPE) as well as a linear low density form (LLDPE). These can be modified by addition of certain elements to the plastic that give it properties beneficial to plant growth such as reduced water loss, UV stabilization to cool soil and prevent insects, elimination of photosynthetically active radiation to prevent weed growth, IR opacity, antidrip/antifog, and fluorescence.\n\nA Greenhouse is a large structure in which it is possible to stand and work with automated ventilation. High tunnels are hoop houses, manually ventilated by rolling up the sides. Greenhouse and high tunnel films are usually within the parameters of 80-220μm thick and 20m wide, and have a life span between 6–45 months dependant on several factors. Monolayer polyethylene films are better suited for less extreme environmental conditions, while multilayer covers made of three layers, one EVA19 layer inserted between two low-density polyethylene layers has been shown to have a better performance under harsh conditions.\n\nSmall tunnel covers are about 1m wide and 1m high, and have a thinner polyethylene film than the large tunnel covers, usually below 80μm. Their lifetime is also shorter than that of the larger versions; they usually have a usable life span of 6–8 months. Use of small tunnels is less popular than both the more expensive but durable greenhouses/walk-in tunnels and the cheaper plastic mulch.\n\nMulching is when a thin plastic film is placed over the ground, poking holes at regular intervals for seeds to be planted in, or placing it directly over plants in the beginning stages of growth. The films remain in place for the duration of the cultivation (usually 2–4 months) and usually have a thickness of 12-80μm. The main functions of plastic mulch are to insulate and maintain a consistent temperature and humidity of the soil, preventing evaporation of moisture from the soil, minimization of seedtime and harvest, prevent weed growth, and to prevent erosion. Pigmented or colourless films can be used, each with specific advantages and disadvantages over the other. \n\nBlack films prevent weed growth, but do not transmit light to heat up the soil; clear films transmit light and heat the soil, but promote weed growth. Photosensitive films have been developed that are pigmented to prevent weed growth, but still transmit light to heat the soil. These photosensitive films are more costly than either the clear or black polyethylene sheeting. Black plastic mulch controls evaporation from the soil, improves soil water retention. Plastic mulching proved to reduce irrigation requirements in pepper by 14-29% because of elimination of soil evaporation. \n\nFlowering time was also reduced in okra when black plastic mulch was used; the plants reached 50% flowering 3–6 days earlier than un-mulched plots. Plant height in okra was significantly increased with black plastic mulch use compared to those grown in bare soil. Evaporation from soil accounts for 25-50% of water used in irrigation, using plastic mulch prevents much of this evaporation and thus reduces the amount of water needed to grow the crop. This conservation of water makes plastic mulch favourable for farmers in dry and arid climates where water is a limited resource. As the second most used ag plastic in the world, the volume of plastic mulch used every year is estimated at 700,000t.\n\nThe first use of plastic film in agriculture was to in an effort to make a cheaper version of a glasshouse. In 1948 Professor E.M. Emmert built the first plastic greenhouse, a wooden structure covered with cellulose acetate film. He later switched this to a more effective polyethylene film. After this introduction of plastic film to agriculture it began being used at a larger scale around the world by the early 1950s to replace paper for mulching vegetables. \n\nBy 1999 almost 30 million acres worldwide were covered in plastic mulch. Only a small percentage of this was in the United States (185 000 acres), the majority of this plastic growth was happening in economically poor areas of the world and previously unproductive desert regions, such as Almeria in southern Spain. \n\nThe largest concentrations of greenhouses around the world are mainly found in two areas, with 80% throughout the Far East (China, Japan, Korea), and 15% in the Mediterranean basin. The area of greenhouse cover is still increasing at a fast rate, during the last decade it is estimated that it has been growing by 20% every year. Areas such as the Middle East and Africa are growing in their use of plastic greenhouses by 15-20% per year, compared to the weak growth in more developed and economically stable areas such as Europe. China leads the world’s growth at 30% per year, translating into a volume of plastic film reaching 1,000,000 t/year. In 2006 80% of the area covered by plastic mulch is found in China where it has a growth rate of 25% per year; this is the highest in the world.\n\nSince its introduction in the 1950s, plastic film has been designed and developed to increase produce yield, increase produce size and shorten growth time. Developments in plastic film include durability, optical (ultraviolet, visible, near infrared, and middle infrared) properties, and the antidrip or antifog effect. Recent developments in this area include UV-blocking, NIR-blocking, fluorescent, and ultrathermic films.\n\nThe use of plasticulture in agriculture is growing rapidly, perhaps nowhere more visibly than around Almería in southern Spain. The eastern approaches to Almería, north of the airport, are densely covered, as is a large area further northeast, surrounding the towns of Campohermoso, Los Pipaces and Los Grillos (close to Níjar). \n\nThe densest concentration lies about 20 km southwest of Almería, where almost the entire Campo de Dalías, a low-lying cape, is now under plastic (an estimated area of 20,000 hectares). Further west, a similar, but smaller, coastal plain around Carchuna, southeast of Motril, is similarly enveloped. The technique is not restricted to the plains; it is also applied to wide terraces on the sides of shallow valleys, as the valley north of Castell de Ferro shows. \n\nElsewhere along the Costa Tropical and the Costa del Sol, particularly between Almería and Málaga, fruit trees growing on terraces in steeper valleys may be covered with vast tents of plastic netting.\n\n\nOne significant component of plasticulture is the disposal of used ag plastics. Technologies exist which allow for many ag plastics to be recycled into viable plastic resins for reuse in the plastics manufacturing industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16032295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16032295", "title": "Precision attachment", "text": "Precision attachment\n\nIn restorative dentistry, precision attachments are the functional mechanical parts of the removable partial denture made of plastic, metal or a combination of both. They consist of two parts referred as the 'male' part that is fixed to a crown inside the patient's mouth and a 'female' part which holds the partial denture. \n\nThe patient can insert and remove the partial dentures and the aim of the precision attachment is to give the patient maximum comfort and ease while wearing, inserting or removing.\n"}
{"id": "58264337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58264337", "title": "Rachael Taylor (New Zealand academic)", "text": "Rachael Taylor (New Zealand academic)\n\nRachael Taylor (born 1971) is a New Zealand childhood nutrition academic. She is currently a full professor at the University of Otago.\n\nAfter a 2001 PhD titled \" 'Body composition in children and adolescents : a DXA based study' \" at the University of Otago, she worked at Otago, rising to full professor in 2016.\n\nMuch of Taylor's research is related to infant and childhood obesity and has frequently made the news.\n\n"}
{"id": "41613063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41613063", "title": "Sarah Byford", "text": "Sarah Byford\n\nSarah Byford is Professor of Health Economics and Director of King's Health Economics (KHE) at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience. She specializes in the economic evaluation of mental health services and clinical and economic evaluation of complex interventions, including services for children and adolescents.\n\nShe is a Senior Economics Advisor at the Social Care Institute for Excellence, a member of the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence Public Health Interventions Advisory Committee (PHIAC), Associate Editor of the British Journal of Psychiatry and a Mental Health Review Journal editorial board member.\n\nByford began her academic career by completing a BSc (Hons) in Economics at Brunel University. She continued her education by attaining an MSc, first in Health Economics (1993) and then Health Sciences (2004) at the University of York. Byford was awarded her PhD in Health Economics at King's College, London in 2009.\n\nByford held a number of research roles between 1992 and 2000. She became a Senior Lecturer at the Centre for the Economics of Mental Health, Institute of Psychiatry, King’s College London in 2000 and held this position until 2009. Byford held the position of Reader at the Centre for the Economics of Mental Health from 2009-2012. During this time she was also the Senior Economics Advisor, Social Care Institute for Excellence, London (2010-2011).\n\nByford is currently the Professor and Co-deputy director of Health Economics at the Centre for the Economics of Mental and Physical Health, Institute of Psychiatry.\n\nByford holds key editorial roles at a number of Journals:\n\n2013–present Social Psychiatry and Psychiatric Epidemiology Editorial Board\n\n2011–present Royal College of Psychiatrists Publication Management Board\n\n2007–present British Journal of Psychiatry Associate Editor\n\n2007–present Mental Health Review Journal Editorial Board member\n\n"}
{"id": "29151266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29151266", "title": "Siphiwe Hlophe", "text": "Siphiwe Hlophe\n\nSiphiwe Hlophe is the co-founder of Swaziland for Positive Living, an NGO that provides counselling and education, and seeks to improve the living conditions of people who are affected by or infected with HIV in the rural areas. The organisation has been described as \"Swaziland's most innovative and motivated HIV/AIDS mitigation programme\". She is also the President of Positive Women, a UK-based charity founded by Kathryn Llewellyn and Stephen Brown\n\nIn 1999 Siphiwe Hlophe was working as a manager in a hotel chain when she won a scholarship to study agricultural economics at Bradford University. A condition of the scholarship was that she took an HIV test, the result of which showed her to be HIV-positive, after which her husband left her, and she lost her scholarship. This showed the stigma that is attached to HIV in Swaziland, and spurred Siphiwe Hlophe on to co-found SWAPOL to help others in similar situations. Siphiwe was one of the first women to publicly declare her positive HIV status. \"It [SWAPOL]was forged from the suffering our the founding members. That may be why people respond to what we are doing, and we are getting so many requests to help communities where HIV is rampant. We are not an NGO that works out of a plush office. We are people who know what it means to face discrimination and rejection, but who have the will to live\", says Siphiwe Hlophe.\n\nSiphiwe Hlophe has four children, the eldest 30 years old and the youngest 19.\n\n"}
{"id": "31506908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31506908", "title": "Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Society", "text": "Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Society\n\nThe Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Charity (Sands) is a national charity in the United Kingdom that provides support to anyone affected by the death of a baby. \n\nIt is based at the Victoria Charity Centre in London and is a registered charity.\n\nIts activities include:\n\n\nSands Freephone Helpline\n\nIn March 2017 the Sands Helpline number changed to 0808 164 3332. The number is free to call from landlines and mobiles. \n\nThe Stillbirth and Neonatal Death Charity Garden is a feature within the National Memorial Arboretum, the UK national site of remembrance at Alrewas, near Lichfield in Staffordshire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56983984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56983984", "title": "Structural competency", "text": "Structural competency\n\nStructural competency is a term used in American health professional education to describe the ability of health care providers and trainees to appreciate how symptoms, clinical problems, diseases and attitudes toward patients, populations and health systems are influenced by 'upstream' social determinants of health.\n\nThe creators of this term Jonathan Metzl and Helena Hansen proposed a 5-point model .\n\nThe concept of structural competency is framed in the language of competency based medical education and is proposed as a new iteration of cultural competency which is a defined competency in American medical, nursing and public health education.\n\nJonathan M. Metzl and Helena Hansen (2014) Structural competency: Theorizing a new medical engagement with stigma and inequality, Social Science & Medicine, Volume 103, Pages 126-133 \n\nWhat Is Competency-Based Medical Education? \n\nCultural Competence Education for Students in Medicine and Public Health - Report of an AAMC and AAPH Expert Panel\n"}
{"id": "43540091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43540091", "title": "Swedish Work Environment Authority", "text": "Swedish Work Environment Authority\n\nThe Swedish Work Environment Authority (SWEA) (, abbreviated \"AV\") is a Swedish administrative authority sorting under the Ministry of Employment, responsible for issues relating to the working environment and work injury statistics. The agency is tasked by the Government with issuing regulations, should spread information and furnish advice on occupational safety and health (OSH), and the relating labour laws, in particular the Work Environment Act (AML). This is primarily done with the Work Environment Authority's Statute Book (AFS), which contains provisions and general recommendations specifying the requirements to be met by the work environment. The agency also publishes other books, brochures, reports and should promote collaboration between parties on the labour market, on issues relating to OSH. Furthermore, the agency has a supervisory role for the compliance of the occupational health legislation, the Working Hours Act (SFS 1982:673) and, in certain aspects, the Tobacco Act (SFS 1993:581) and the Environmental Code (SFS 1998:808). This is usually done with inspections, and for this purpose, the agency has the right to issue stipulations and injunctions to any non-compliant employer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43365528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43365528", "title": "The MINDS Foundation", "text": "The MINDS Foundation\n\nThe MINDS Foundation, a nonprofit located in India, uses a grassroots approach to eliminate stigma and provide educational, medical, and moral support for patients with mental illness in rural India. (1) The organization conducts ongoing research and develops curriculum to expand education about mental health and increase the number of trained staff who can support patients suffering from mental illness. MINDS works with a broad team of directors, advisors, field workers and assistants and receives support through a variety of foundations, grants and NGOs. Since its creation in 2010, MINDS has increased the level of education and treatment with regards to mental illness, overcoming many of the challenges of rural health work in India.\n\nMINDS uses a three-phase approach for education, treatment and reintegration.\nPhase 1 focuses on community-wide education held in each village by social workers, MINDS staff and Community Mental Health Workers. After a short 45-minute film explaining the basics of mental illness and the effectiveness of treatment, there are facilitated discussions and Q&A sessions which focus on de-stigmatization of mental illness. Research suggests that lack of health education in rural India contributes to serious misunderstandings, stigma and denial about the existence and causes of mental illness. According to current studies, psychologists believe education programs about mental illness are one of the most effective ways to reduce this stigma and encourage patients to receive the treatment they need.\n\nPhase 2 focuses on effective, free treatment for any mentally ill person who wishes to receive help. MINDS is committed to working in relation with communities and hospitals across Gujarat and, therefore, provides free daily transport to local hospitals, free consultation with local doctors and free medication. Furthermore, to ease the treatment process, families of patients are welcome to accompany the patients to the hospitals and doctors appointments. According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, 70-90% of all global mentally ill patients who receive treatment partially or completely recover.\n\nPhase 3 focuses on each patient's reintegration into the local community after treatment. With the help of Community Mental Health Workers, patients receive continued medical support and education. Families of patients also benefit from support and education during this transition. The Phase 1 education and de-stigmatization pave the way for this third phase of MINDS work.\n\nIn addition to the three-phase program running in villages across Gujarat, India, MINDS continually develops programs and conducts research to expand programing. Below is a summary of current, developing programing.\n\nCommunity Mental Health Worker (CMHW) Training\nCommunity Mental Health Workers (CMHWs) work as advisors and mentors in each village where MINDS programming is run. The CMHWs go through extensive training that focuses on identifying mental illness, connecting patients to hospital care, advising and educating families of mentally ill, supporting the phase 3 reintegration process and facilitating phase 1 education workshops. The training for CMHWs was developed in partnership with the Nossal Institute for Global Health, adapted from \"An Introduction to Mental Health: Facilitator’s Manual for Training Community Health Workers in India by the Nossal Institute for Global Health & BasicNeeds\"\n\nTeacher Training\nCurrently MINDS is developing a training program, based on the WHO advocation of Task-Shifting, which trains teachers at local schools to identify and support mentally ill youth. The program follows a four-step model focused on understanding why mental illness is a problem, identifying possible signs of mental illness in students, supporting students through active listening and de-stigmatization of classrooms and referring students to CMHWs for further consolation and screening.\n\nGender Workshops\nAdditionally, MINDS is considering how discussions and education about gender-specific concerns surrounding mental illness and well-being could further deepen the Phase 1 programming.\n\nPublished Research\n\"Knowledge of and Attitudes Toward Clinical Depression Among Health Providers in Gujarat, India.\"\n\n\"Perceptions of Traditional Healing for Mental Illness in Rural Gujarat.\"\n\nIn order to manage field work, project development and research, MINDS has a multi-level organizational system that combines full-time employees with professional volunteers and advisors around the world. The core team, associates and field team manage the non-profit, monitor the three-phase education treatment & reintegration program and organize ongoing research. The Global and Indian Board of Directors, consisting of notable professors and professionals, monitor the progress of MINDS and support the key values of the NGO. Lastly, the Advisors offer professional advice for program development and research.\n\nIn addition to the year-round team, board and advisors, MINDS runs a Leadership Development Development Program where interns from across the US partner with members of the core team to receive training and hands-on experience in marketing, publicity, research and program development. The program aims to develop future leaders in the non-profit arena.\n\nFor students and professionals looking for field experience, the MINDS Fellowship Program allows volunteers to work in Gujarat on research and programing projects.\n\nThe MINDS Foundation was founded as nonprofit in August 2010 and is registered in Massachusetts as an NGO; additionally it partners with an NGO of the same name located in India, and thus is run through global offices. Currently MINDS runs programs in 19 villages in Gujarat and will expand to other villages in the near future.\n\nIn India, there is no official mental health policy and resources are extremely limited, with only 0.3 psychiatrists/100,000 people and just 0.06% of the national health budget going towards mental illness education and treatment. Furthermore, rural areas in India tend to be some of the most neglected: out of 626 districts in India, only 125 have any sort of mental health program in place. Despite the lack of national resources and funding, \"mental illness constitutes nearly one sixth of all health-related disorders\". Therefore, health resources in India are usually funded, provided and accessed through the private sector.\n\nThe MINDS Foundation partners with Mount Sinai School of Medicine for program advice and review.\nMINDS also partners with Sumandeep Vidyapeeth University, located just outside Vadodara.\nStarting in July 2011, MINDs began working with the Departments of Psychiatry and Community Medicine at Diharaj General Hospital, which provides treatment support and local staff.\n\nThe MINDS Foundation has campus chapters at Wesleyan University and at GlobeMed at University of Washington.\n\nThe MINDS Foundation also receives sponsorship, funding or donations from: The Mentor Network, The International Monetary Fund, Newman's Own Foundation, Gray Matters Capital, Google Grants, Hill Holiday, Korn Ferry International, Podio, The Salesforce Foundation, Fried Frank Legal Support, Proskauer Rose LLP, Thomson Reuters Foundation, Health Radio, The Next Mile Project, the Partricelli Center for Social Entrepreneurship, MC Mass Challenge, Dell Social Innovation Challenge, StartingBloc, mHealth Alliance and the Gulbenkian Mental Health Platform.\n\nNPR: \"In India, Stigma of Mental Illness Hinders Treatment\"\n\nThe Wall Street Journal: \"India's Mental Health Challenge\"\n\nHalabol Voices: \"The MINDS Foundation: Fighting the Mental Illness\"\n\nGulbenkian Global Mental Health Platform: \"The MINDS Foundation\"\n\nIndia West: \"Youthful Approach to Battle Mental Illness Stigmas: Raghu Kiran Appasani\"\n"}
{"id": "32255552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32255552", "title": "Unnecessary health care", "text": "Unnecessary health care\n\nUnnecessary health care (overutilization, overuse, or overtreatment) is healthcare provided with a higher volume or cost than is appropriate. In the United States, where health care costs are the highest as a percentage of GDP, overuse was the predominant factor in its expense, accounting for about a third of its healthcare spending ($750 billion out of $2.6 trillion) in 2012.\n\nFactors that drive overuse include paying healthcare providers more to do more (fee-for-service), defensive medicine to protect against litigiousness, and insulation from price sensitivity in instances where the consumer is not the payer—the patient receives goods and services but insurance pays for them (whether public insurance, private, or both). Such factors leave many actors in the system (doctors, patients, pharmaceutical companies, device manufacturers) with inadequate incentive to restrain health care prices or overuse. This drives payers, such as national health insurance systems or the U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, to focus on medical necessity as a condition for payment. However, the threshold between necessity and lack thereof can often be subjective.\n\n\"Overtreatment\", in the strict sense, may refer to unnecessary medical interventions, including treatment of a self-limited condition (\"overdiagnosis\") or to extensive treatment for a condition that requires only limited treatment.\n\nA forerunner of the term was what Jack Wennberg called \"unwarranted variation\", different rates of treatments based upon where people lived, not clinical rationale. He had discovered that in studies that began in 1967 and were published in the 1970s and the 1980s: \"The basic premise - that medicine was driven by science and by physicians capable of making clinical decisions based on well-established fact and theory - was simply incompatible with the data we saw. It was immediately apparent that suppliers were more important in driving demand than had been previously realized.\"\n\nIn 2008, US bioethicist Ezekiel J. Emanuel and health economist Victor R. Fuchs defined unnecessary health care as \"overutilization,\" healthcare provided with a higher volume or cost than is appropriate. Recently, economists have sought to understand unnecessary health care in terms of misconsumption rather than overconsumption.\n\nIn 2009 two US physicians wrote in an editorial, that unnecessary care was \"defined as services which show no demonstrable benefit to patients\" and might represent 30% of U.S. medical care. They referred to a 2003 study on regional variations in Medicare spending, which found, \"Medicare enrollees in higher-spending regions receive more care than those in lower-spending regions, but do not have better health outcomes or satisfaction with care.\"\n\nIn January 2012, the American College of Physicians Ethics, Professionalism, and Human Rights Committee suggested that overtreatment can also be understood in contrast to 'parsimonious care', defined as \"care that utilizes the most efficient means to effectively diagnose a condition and treat a patient.\"\n\nIn April 2012, Berwick, from the Institute for Healthcare Improvement, and Andrew Hackbarth from the RAND Corporation defined overtreatment as \"subjecting patients to care that, according to sound science and the patients' own preferences, cannot possibly help them — care rooted in outmoded habits, supply-driven behaviors, and ignoring science.\" They wrote that trying to do something (treatment or testing) for all patients who might need it inevitably entails doing that same thing for some patients who might not need it.\" In uncertain situations, \"some non-beneficial care was the necessary byproduct of optimal clinical decision making.\"\n\nIn October 2015, two pediatricians said that considering \"overtreatment as an ethical violation\" could help see the conflicting incentives of healthcare workers for treatment or nontreatment.\n\nIn the US, the country which spends the most on healthcare per person globally, overuse is the most important contributor to the high cost. \"The New York Times\" reported \"chronic overuse of medical care\" exists in the United States.\n\nOveruse of medical care costs billions of dollars every year. and lowers the quality of health care. The United States National Academy of Sciences estimated in 2005 that \"between $.30 and $.40 of every dollar spent on healthcare is spent on the costs of poor quality,\" amounting to\" slightly more than a half-trillion dollars a year... wasted on overuse, underuse, misuse, duplication, system failures, unnecessary repetition, poor communication, and inefficiency.\n\nWhen care is overused, patients are put at risk of complications unnecessarily, with documented harm to patients from overuse of surgeries and other treatments.\n\nIn 2003 Fisher \"et al\". found that \"there is no apparent regional health benefit for Medicare recipients from doing more, whether 'more' is expressed as hospitalizations, surgical procedures, or consultations within the hospital.\" Up to 30% of Medicare spending may be cut without harming patients.\n\nPhysicians' decisions are the proximate cause of unnecessary care, though the potential incentives and penalties they face can influence their choices.\n\nWhen public or private insurance cover expenses and doctors are paid under a fee-for-service (FFS) model, neither has an incentive to consider the cost of treatment, a combination that contributes to waste. Fee-for-service is a large incentive for overuse because health care providers (such as doctors and hospitals) receive revenue from the overtreatment.\n\nAtul Gawande investigated Medicare FFS reimbursements in McAllen, Texas, for a 2009 article in the \"New Yorker\". In 2006, the town of McAllen was the second-most expensive Medicare market, behind Miami. Costs per beneficiary were almost twice the national average.\n\nIn 1992, however, McAllen had been almost exactly in line with the Medicare spending average. After looking at other potential explanations such as relatively poorer health or medical malpractice, Gawande concluded the town was a chief example of the overuse of medical services. Gawande concluded that a business culture (physicians viewing their practices as a revenue stream) had established itself there, in contrast to a culture of low-cost high-quality medicine at the Mayo Clinic and in the Grand Junction, Colorado, market. Gawande advised:\n\nTo protect themselves from legal prosecution U.S. physicians have an incentive to order clinically unnecessary tests or tests of little potential value. While defensive medicine is a favored explanation for high medical costs by physicians, Gawande estimated in 2010 it only contributed to 2.4% of the total $2.3 trillion of U.S. health care spending in 2008.\n\nDirect-to-consumer advertising can encourage patients to ask for drugs, devices, diagnostics, or procedures. Sometimes service providers will simply give these treatments or services rather than attempting the potentially more unpleasant task of convincing the patient what they have requested is not needed, or is likely to cause more harm than good.\n\nDartmouth Medical School professor Gilbert Welch argued 2016 that certain predispositions by physicians and the general public may lead to unnecessary health care, including:\n\nOveruse of diagnostic imaging, such as X-rays and CT scans, is defined as any application unlikely to improve patient care. Factors that contribute to overuse include \"self-referral, patient wishes, inappropriate financially motivated factors, health system factors, industry, media, lack of awareness\" and defensive medicine. Respected organizations—such as the American College of Radiology (ACR), Royal College of Radiologists (RCR) and the World Health Organization (WHO)—have developed \"appropriateness criteria\". The Canadian Association of Radiologists estimated in 2009 that 30% of imaging was unnecessary in the Canadian health care system. 2008 Medicare claims showed overuse with chest CT's. Financial incentives have also been shown to have a significant impact on dental X-ray use with dentists who are paid a separate fee for each X-ray providing more X-rays. \n\nOveruse of imaging can lead to a diagnosis of a condition that would have otherwise remained irrelevant (overdiagnosis).\n\nOne type of overuse can be physician self-referral. Multiple studies have replicated the finding that when non-radiologists have an ownership interest in the fees generated by radiology equipment—and can self-refer—their use of imaging is unnecessarily higher. The majority of U.S. growth in imaging use (the fastest-growing physician service) comes from self-referring nonradiologists. In 2004, this overuse was estimated to contribute to $16 billion of annual U.S. health care costs.\n\nAs of a 2018 review evidence of overtreatment overmedicalization, and overdiagnosis in Pediatrics have been use of commercial rehydration solution, antidepressants, and parenteral nutrition; overmedicalization with planned early deliveries, immobilization of ankle injuries, use of hydrolyzed infant formula; and overdiagnosis of hypoxemia among children recovering from bronchiolitis. \n\n\nUtilization management (utilization review) has evolved over decades among both public and private payers in an attempt to reduce overuse. In this effort, insurers employ physicians to review the actions of other physicians and detect overuse. Utilization review has a poor reputation among most clinicians as a corrupted system in which utilization reviewers have their own perverse incentives (i.e., find ways to deny coverage no matter what) and in some cases are not practicing physicians, lacking real-world clinical insight or wisdom.\n\nThe 2010 U.S. health care reform, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, did not contain serious strategies to reduce overuse; \"the public has made it clear that it does not want to be told what medical care it can and cannot have.\" Uwe Reinhardt, a health economist at Princeton, said \"the minute you attack overutilization, you will be called a Nazi before the day is out\".\n\nProfessional societies and other groups have begun to push for policy changes that would encourage clinicians to avoid providing unnecessary care. Most physicians accept that laboratory tests are overused, but \"it remains difficult to persuade them to consider the possibility that they, too, might be overutilizing laboratory tests.\"\nIn November 2011, the American Board of Internal Medicine Foundation began the Choosing Wisely campaign, which aims to raise awareness of overtreatment and change physician behavior by publicizing lists of tests and treatments that are often overused, and which doctors and patients should try to avoid.\n\nIn April 2012, the Lown Institute and the New America Foundation Health Policy Program convened the 'Avoiding Avoidable Care' conference. It was the first major medical conference to focus entirely on overuse, and it included presentations from speakers including Bernard Lown, Don Berwick, Christine Cassel, Amitabh Chandra, JudyAnn Bigby, and Julio Frenk. A second meeting was planned for December 2013.\n\nSince the meeting, the Lown Institute has focused its work on deepening the understanding of overuse and generating public discussion of the ethical and cultural drivers of overuse, especially on the role of the hidden curriculum in medical school and residency.\n\nPatient safety committees, which are charged with reviewing the quality of care, can view overutilization as adverse event.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20013224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20013224", "title": "Vrutok Hydroelectric Power Station", "text": "Vrutok Hydroelectric Power Station\n\nVrutok Hydro Power Plant is a large power plant in Macedonia that has four turbines with a nominal capacity of 49 MVA each having a total capacity of 162 MW.\n"}
{"id": "27481104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27481104", "title": "William Francis Melchert-Dinkel", "text": "William Francis Melchert-Dinkel\n\nWilliam Francis Melchert-Dinkel (born July 20, 1962) is an American former licensed practical nurse (LPN). In 2011, he was found guilty of encouraging people to commit suicide. He allegedly told those contemplating suicide what methods worked best, that it was a decent choice to commit suicide, that they would be better off in heaven, and/or falsely entered into suicide pacts with them. He is a married father of two.\n\nMelchert-Dinkel was originally convicted of two counts of assisting suicide for encouraging the July 27, 2005 suicide of 36-year-old Mark Drybrough, a British IT technician, and the April 20, 2008 suicide of 20-year-old Nadia Kajouji, a student at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada via Internet chat rooms. Those convictions were later overturned by the Minnesota Supreme Court when it found that part of the state law used to convict him was unconstitutional. On remand, Melchert-Dinkel was convicted on one count of assisting suicide, and one count of attempted assisting suicide.\n\nHe served 178 days in jail and will be on probation for ten years.\n\nWilliam Francis Melchert-Dinkel allegedly met his victims in internet suicide chat rooms, where he posed as a depressed woman in her 20s using aliases such as \"Cami D\" or \"falcongirl\". According to his affidavit, Melchert-Dinkel spoke to dozens of people over the course of four or five years, encouraging them to kill themselves (typically by hanging). He said he was successful in at least five instances.\n\nMelchert-Dinkel was convicted in relation to the suicide of 18-year-old Nadia Kajouji, who became depressed after leaving home to begin university. A resident at Ottawa's Carleton University, she jumped from a bridge and was found drowned in the Rideau River downstream from the Ottawa school in April 2008. Kajouji had conversed online with someone posing as a young woman–now known to be Melchert-Dinkel–who suggested that Kajouji hang herself, gave her detailed instructions how to do it, and told her to capture her final moments with a webcam so (s)he and others could watch, as part of a joint suicide pact. St. Paul, Minnesota police said they confirmed that she \"had been conversing with Melchert-Dinkel online just prior to her disappearance\", including on the day of her disappearance.\n\nOttawa police decided not to charge Melchert-Dinkel under the Canadian assisted suicide law.\n\nHe was also convicted in relation to the suicide of Mark Drybrough, a 32-year-old IT technician who in the wake of suffering a nervous breakdown and being depressed hanged himself in his Coventry, England home in July 2005, after allegedly chatting for two months with someone allegedly using the aliases Falcongirl and Li Do. Melchert-Dinkel was charged with counseling Drybrough on how to kill himself.\n\nIn November 2006, Celia Blay, a retired British schoolteacher living in Maiden Bradley, Wiltshire, received word from a teenaged friend in South America that she had entered a suicide pact with a young nurse. Blay investigated Melchert-Dinkel's \"Li Do\" identity and discovered that he had previously agreed to earlier suicide pacts. She convinced the girl to break the pact four hours before the planned suicide, saving her life. Throughout the following year, Blay posted warnings about \"Li Do\" on other chat websites. She also discovered Melchert-Dinkel's \"Falcongirl\" and \"Cami D\" identities, and talked to users who entered other pacts in which he arranged to have attempted victims die in front of their webcams. After months of collecting evidence about the then-unidentified Melchert-Dinkel's activities, Blay approached the local police. They opted not to investigate.\n\nIn January 2008—around the time Melchert-Dinkel was corresponding with Kajouji—Blay and a friend, Kat Lowe, set up a sting to catch \"Cami D\" in the act of attempting a suicide pact. It was during this correspondence that Melchert-Dinkel described seeing a man from Birmingham, thought to be Drybrough, hang himself on his webcam. Lowe and Blay gained Melchert-Dinkel's trust and found information that traced him back to his IP address and residence in Saint Paul, Minnesota. In a stroke of luck, they also saw Melchert-Dinkel through a webcam feed, posing as \"Cami D\". Blay submitted an affidavit on the matter to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, but received no response. However, the Saint Paul Police Department and the Minnesota Internet Crimes Against Children Task Force agreed to take the case.\n\nMelchert-Dinkel was convicted on March 15, 2011, in a criminal complaint filed in Rice County, Minnesota. He was charged with advising, encouraging, or assisting Kajouji and Drybrough in taking their own lives using internet correspondence. He was ordered to not use the Internet while the case was underway.\n\nWhile counseling to commit suicide is illegal, laws in North America and Britain had not previously been successfully used to prosecute anyone for promoting suicide over the internet. He was found guilty of aiding a suicide under Minnesota law, which provides penalties for anyone who \"intentionally advises, encourages, or assists another in taking the other's own life\", punishment can be up to 15 years in prison and a fine of up to $30,000. He was sentenced on May 4, 2011, to 360 days in jail.\n\nOn July 27, 2012, the Minnesota Court of Appeals affirmed the conviction. The Minnesota Supreme Court subsequently agreed to review the case. On March 19, 2014, the supreme court reversed the conviction and remanded. The high court held that the Minnesota statute under which Melchert-Dinkel had been convicted was unconstitutional in part. The court held that merely advising or encouraging suicide was speech protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, and that those prohibitions were unconstitutional. It went on to hold, however, that speech which actually assisted a suicide was not protected.\n\nSince the trial court made factual findings only with respect to encouraging and advising, the supreme court reversed the conviction. It remanded, the case, however, for the lower court to determine whether Melchert-Dinkel had actually assisted the suicides within the meaning of the statute.\n\nOn October 15, 2014, Rice County District Judge Thomas Neuville sentenced William Melchert-Dinkel to 3 years in prison, but suspended that sentence if Melchert-Dinkel serves 360 days in jail and abides by the terms of his probation for 10 years after his release. A month prior to the sentencing, Judge Neuville found that Melchert-Dinkel \"intentionally advised and encouraged\" Drybrough and Kajouji to commit suicide, after the case had been remanded by the Minnesota Supreme Court.\n\nMelchert-Dinkel was convicted of assisting the suicide of Mark Drybough and attempting to assist the suicide of Nadia Kajouji, because she ultimately took her own life by jumping off a bridge into a frozen river, rather than by hanging, as Melchert-Dinkel had allegedly suggested to her online. During his second sentencing hearing, Melchert-Dinkel stated, \"I am sorry... for my actions and what I have done. I have repented.\"\n\nWilliam Melchert-Dinkel reported to jail on October 24, 2014. Even after his release from prison in February 2015, his lawyer has continued to appeal the conviction.\n\n"}
