{"id": "12671248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12671248", "title": "Aaron Abiob", "text": "Aaron Abiob\n\nAaron Abiob () (1535–1605) was Turkish rabbi of Salonica. He was the author of \"Oil of Myrrh\", in the Yiddish known as Shemen ha-Mor (\"ex ravvinorum Myrrhoe commentariis Oleum\"), and was commentary on the Book of Esther. He lived and flourished in Salonica about 1540' his work being first printed in 1601, and living for some time in Constantinople.\n\nThe name Aaron was given to the brother of Moses a person documented within the Torah, this biblical Aaron was the founder of the priesthood.\n\n"}
{"id": "7319094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7319094", "title": "Abd al-Haqq I", "text": "Abd al-Haqq I\n\nAbd al-Haqq I ibn Mihyu ibn Abi Bakr ibn Hamama (died 1217) was the first Marinid (or Banu abd al-Haqq) sheikh, leader and an eponym for that dynasty.\n\nAround 1215, the new Almohad caliph, Yusuf II Al-Mustansir was still young and the Almohads had earlier suffered a severe defeat against Christian kingdoms of Iberia on 16 July 1212 in the battle of Las Navas de Tolosa. The \"Banu Marin\" (or the Marinids) took advantage of the situation and attacked the Almohads who sent 10,000 men to fight them. The battle took place on the coast of the Rif region. The Almohads were defeated. During 1217, the Berber nomads and tribes clashed with the Marinids around Fes but were defeated. However Abd al-Haqq was mortally wounded during these clashes.\n\nThe Marinids took possession of the Rif and were able to maintain their control of the region despite attempted counter-attacks by the Almohads.\n"}
{"id": "12700419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12700419", "title": "Abundius and Abundantius", "text": "Abundius and Abundantius\n\nAbundius and Abundantius (died c. 304) are Christian martyrs who were killed during the Diocletian persecution. Their feast day is celebrated on September 16.\n\nAbundius was a priest who had earlier resurrected John, the son of Marcianus. Upon hearing of this, the emperor ordered these three, with Abundantius, a deacon, to be beheaded. The executions were carried out at the 26th milestone of the Via Flaminia.\n\nTheir bodies were later transferred to the church of Cosmas and Damian in Rome. The bodies of Marcianus and John were found around 1001 and transferred to Civita Castellana. There, they were elected to be the city's principal patron saints. In 1583, the relics of Abundius and Abundantius were transferred to the SS. Nome di Gesu, where they were placed under the church's high altar. Aloysius Gonzaga heard mass there before becoming a Jesuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48395158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48395158", "title": "Ahmed Awad Ibn Auf", "text": "Ahmed Awad Ibn Auf\n\nLt. Gen. Ahmed Awad Ibn Auf (born ~1954) () is a Sudanese general and politician. Auf is the current National Defense Minister of Sudan.\n\nAuf previously served as Head of Military Intelligence, and also Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff before he was relieved in June 2010 as part of a major military shakeup. Following his military service, he served as the Sudanese Ambassador to Oman.\n\nAuf was on a May 2007 list of individuals sanctioned by the United States due to his alleged role as a liaison between the Sudanese government and the Janjaweed in the Darfur War.\n"}
{"id": "53248346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53248346", "title": "Ashkelon dog cemetery", "text": "Ashkelon dog cemetery\n\nThe Ashkelon dog cemetery is a burial ground in the city of Ashkelon in Israel where possibly thousands of dogs were interred in the fifth to third centuries BC. The majority of the dogs were puppies; all had similarities to the modern Canaan Dog, perhaps representing the ancestral population from which the modern breed is descended. It is the largest known cemetery of this kind in the ancient world. Its discoverer suggests that it may have been the product of a religious cult focused on the reputed healing properties of dogs' saliva, and an otherwise obscure reference in the Book of Deuteronomy may refer to similar cultic activities in Jerusalem. Alternatively, it may have been the site of a facility for breeding dogs for trade in the Near East.\n\nThe cemetery was discovered in the Ashkelon National Park by Lawrence Stager during excavations undertaken between 1986–1994 for the Leon Levy Expedition to Ashkelon. His team uncovered the skeletons of more than 1,300 dogs.\n\nMost of the dogs were found buried in a series of terraces which had previously been occupied by a large warehouse overlooking the sea. The burial ground extended south into an area that appears to have only been briefly been used as a dog cemetery before being built upon, and probably extended west into an area that has been lost to coastal erosion. The burials have been dated to between the fifth and the first part of the fourth century BC. The burial ground may have been in use for about fifty years. Stager notes that as \"only the eastern limits of the cemetery have been established, we can speculate that it was originally much larger, with dog burials probably numbering in the thousands.\" He describes it as \"by far the largest dog cemetery known in the ancient world.\" Another series of burials was found to the north-east, where dogs had been buried in streets or in thoroughfares between large buildings. These were of later dates, from the late Persian period to the early Hellenistic period.\n\nEach animal occupied an individual shallow pit and was laid on its side with its tail tucked between its hind legs. The burials were not marked, there were no offerings in the pits and the dogs were not oriented in any consistent direction. The corpses were carefully interred, in some cases perhaps having their limbs bound at the ankles before burial. In contrast, the burial pits were dug somewhat haphazardly, overlapping and occasionally intruding on each other. At least sixty percent of the dogs were puppies; some were probably fetuses. The burials appear to have taken place individually over time, rather than \"en masse\".\n\nThe cause of death does not appear to have been sacrificial. None of the skeletons show evidence of fatal injuries, and they do not show any signs of having been cut up or skinned before burial. It is possible that they could have been poisoned, which would have left no traces on the skeletons. However, it seems more likely that the deaths were due to natural causes, as the death rates for urban dogs in a pre-veterinary environment were very high; perhaps as many as fifty percent are likely to have died in their first year.\n\nAn alternative hypothesis has been put forward suggesting that the dogs died in an epidemic. However, this is inconsistent with the demographics of the buried dogs, as an outbreak would be expected to affect all members of the affected population, whereas the Ashkelon population is heavily skewed towards puppies.\n\nThe dogs were physically similar, with close anatomical similarities to the present-day Canaan Dog. Rather than being a single breed, they appear to represent examples of a naturally occurring canid population adapted to the hot and semi-arid conditions of the region. Dogs of this type gave rise to the Canaan Dog through selective breeding in modern times.\n\nNumerous dog burials with religious contexts have been found in the southern Levant, dating back as far as 3500 BC. The phenomenon of dog burials in the region appears to have reached a peak under the Persian rule (586–332 BC) and continued into the Hellenistic period, though the reasons for the growth and decline of the practice are unclear. Individual or small numbers of dog burials have been found throughout the region, though the Ashkelon cemetery is in a class of its own for its sheer size.\n\nStager hypothesizes that \"the best explanation seems to be that the Ashkelon dogs were revered as sacred animals. As such, they were probably associated with a particular deity and with that god's sacred precinct, about which the dogs were free to roam.\" The care taken with the individual interments indicates \"an intense relationship between dogs and humans.\" Dogs were revered in Persian Zoroastrian tradition, but were also associated with healing gods in Canaanite, Phoenician, Babylonian and Assyrian tradition. For instance, the Babylonian goddess of health, Nintinugga or Gula, had the dog as her symbol and was described as \"she who by the touch of her pure hand revives the dead.\" M. Heltzer notes evidence from Sicily of a possible cultic link between dogs and the Middle Eastern goddess Astarte, and Herodotus mentions that the oldest temple in Ashkelon was dedicated to Aphrodite, who the Greeks associated with Astarte.\n\nThe dogs may have been part of a healing cult in which they were trained to lick the wounds or sores or humans, in exchange for a fee. Stager speculates that future archaeologists may discover a temple dedicated to the cult somewhere in the ruins of ancient Ashkelon. The identity of the deity concerned is unknown, but he suggests that it may have been Resheph, the Phoenician god of healing and plague. Dogs and other animals are encouraged to lick injuries to benefit the sick or injured from the healing properties of saliva, which contains mild antibiotics.\n\nThe Book of Deuteronomy may refer to this obliquely in a verse (23:18) which reads: \"You shall not bring the hire of a prostitute or the wages of a dog into the house of the Lord your God in payment for any vow.\" Biblical scholars have interpreted \"the wages of a dog\" ( \"məḥîr keleḇ\") as a reference to male prostitution. However, it is possible that the phrase refers instead to healing dogs. Stager speculates that a similar cult may have operated in the vicinity of the Temple in Jerusalem, whose attendants may have received fees for their services. This could have prompted the Deuteronomist to prohibit using such fees as payments for vows in the Temple. The dogs would have been seen as doubly impure for being associated with a foreign religion and consuming the filth emanating from sores and wounds.\n\nThe main area where dogs were buried has often been termed a cemetery, implying a sacred area set aside for burials, but Paula Wapnish and Brian Hesse note that \"dogs were buried where there was space, rather than a space being prepared to receive dogs.\" If the dogs were buried in conjunction with religious activities, the combination of careful burial with a lack of markers or grave goods and the disturbance of previous burials may indicate that the dogs were revered up to the point of burial, then granted no significance thereafter. Alternatively, Wapnish and Hesse suggest that the dogs were simply semi-feral urban dogs whose burial in one principal site was simply the result of local custom rather than any religious motivation. Another explanation has been put forward by Anne Marie Smith, who argues that the dogs could have been bred for trade to supply dog-venerating cults in the eastern Mediterranean and Middle East, and were buried on the same site where they lived.\n"}
{"id": "4136144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4136144", "title": "BioMarin Pharmaceutical", "text": "BioMarin Pharmaceutical\n\nBioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. is an American biotechnology company headquartered in San Rafael, California. It has offices and facilities in the United States, South America, Asia, and Europe. BioMarin's core business and research is in enzyme replacement therapies (ERTs). BioMarin was the first company to provide therapeutics for mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I), by manufacturing laronidase (Aldurazyme, commercialized by Genzyme Corporation). BioMarin was also the first company to provide therapeutics for phenylketonuria (PKU).\n\nBioMarin was founded in 1997 by Christopher Starr Ph.D. and Grant W. Denison Jr. with an investment of a $1.5 million from Glyko Biomedical and went public in 1999. Seed investors were amongst others MPM Bioventures, Grosvenor Fund and Florian Schönharting.\n\nIn 2002, BioMarin acquired Glyko Biomedical.\n\nIn 2009, BioMarin acquired Huxley Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Huxley), which had rights to a proprietary form of 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP), amifampridine phosphate. In 2010, BioMarin was granted marketing approval by the European Commission for 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP), amifampridine phosphate for the treatment of the rare autoimmune disease Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). BioMarin launched the product under the name Firdapse.\n\nIn 2010, BioMarin acquired LEAD Therapeutics, Inc. (LEAD), a small private drug discovery and early stage development company with key compound LT-673, an orally available poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor studied for the treatment of patients with rare, genetically defined cancers. This acquisition was followed by the purchase of ZyStor Therapeutics, Inc. (ZyStor), a privately held biotechnology company developing ERTs for the treatment of lysosomal storage disorders and its lead product candidate, ZC-701, a fusion of insulin-like growth factor 2 and alpha glucosidase (IGF2-GAA) in development for Pompe disease. At its R&D day in October 2010, BioMarin also announced a new program for a peptide therapeutic, vosoritide (BMN-111), for the treatment of achondroplasia.\n\nIn 2012, BioMarin acquired Zacharon Pharmaceuticals, a private biotechnology company based in San Diego focused on developing small molecules targeting pathways of glycan metabolism.\n\nIn 2014, BioMarin acquired a histone deacetylase inhibitor chemical library from Repligen for $2 million with the intention of advancing work toward therapies for Friedreich's ataxia and other neurological disorders.\n\nIn November 2014, the company agreed the acquisition of Prosensa for up to $840 million, the range of treatments for Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy however failed to attain FDA approval and in May 2016 development ceased.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nAs of 2016, BioMarin has six products on the market, each of which is an orphan drug.\n\n\nBiomarin is working to develop several new drugs.\n\n\nIn 2010, BioMarin became involved in controversy surrounding 3,4-diaminopyridine (3,4-DAP). BioMarin markets a phosphate salt of 3,4-DAP under the name Firdapse. In 2010, BioMarin was granted exclusive licensing rights to Firdapse for 10 years. As a result, the price of a prescribed National Health Service treatment course has increased from $1,987 for the unlicensed drug to $69,970 for Firdapse. The company states that prior to its licensing, there was no guaranteed quality control of the product and no way of formally monitoring for uncommon side effects through the regulatory process.\n\nIn 2013, BioMarin Pharmaceuticals was at the center of a high profile debate regarding expanded access of cancer patients to experimental drugs. On the advice of her doctor, Andrea Sloan, a patient with advanced ovarian cancer, requested that the company provide her with access to BMN 673, an unapproved PARP inhibitor drug candidate that had exhibited promising activity in a small Phase 1 clinical trial. The company declined, citing safety concerns. Ms. Sloan eventually received a similar drug candidate from a different company.\n\nIn 2015, there was another controversy over expanded access, concerning the supply of a drug on clinical trial to a German child who was suffering from a brain disorder but who was not part of the trial.\n\n\"Use YYYY-MM-DD format for publication dates\"\n"}
{"id": "12887799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12887799", "title": "Biological pacemaker", "text": "Biological pacemaker\n\nGenerally speaking, a biological pacemaker is one or more types of cellular components that, when \"implanted or injected into certain regions of the heart,\" produce specific electrical stimuli that mimic that of the body's natural pacemaker cells. It's indicated for issues such as heart block, slow heart rate, and asynchronous heart ventricle contractions.\n\nThe biological pacemaker is intended as an alternative to the artificial cardiac pacemaker that's been in human use since the late 1950s. Despite their success, several limitations and problems with artificial pacemakers have emerged during the past decades such as electrode fracture or damage to insulation, infection, re-operations for battery exchange, and venous thrombosis. The need for an alternative is most obvious in children, including premature newborn babies, where size mismatch and the fact that pacemaker leads do not grow with children are a problem. A more biological approach has been taken in order to mitigate many of these issues. However, the implanted biological pacemaker cells still typically need to be supplemented with an artificial pacemaker while the cells form the necessary electrical connections with cardiac tissue.\n\nThe first successful experiment with biological pacemakers was carried out by Arjang Ruhparwar's group at Hannover Medical School in Germany using transplanted fetal heart muscle cells. The process was first introduced at the scientific sessions of the American Heart Association in Anaheim in 2001, and the results were published in 2002. A few months later, Eduardo Marban's group from Johns Hopkins University published the first successful gene-therapeutic approach towards the generation of pacemaking activity in otherwise non-pacemaking adult cardiomyocytes using a guinea pig model. The investigators postulated latent pacemaker capability in normal heart muscle cells. This potential ability is suppressed by the inward-rectifier potassium current Ik1 encoded by the gene Kir2 which is not expressed in pacemaker cells. By specific inhibition of Ik1 below a certain level, spontaneous activity of cardiomyocytes was observed with resemblance to the action potential pattern of genuine pacemaker cells.\n\nMeanwhile, other genes and cells have been discovered, including heart muscle cells derived from embryonic stem cells, \"HCN\" genes which encode the wild type pacemaker current I(f). Michael Rosen's group demonstrated that transplantation of HCN2-transfected human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) leads to expression of functional HCN2 channels in vitro and in vivo, mimicking overexpression of HCN2 genes in cardiac myocytes. In 2010, Ruhparwar's group again demonstrated a type of biological pacemaker, this time showing that by injection of the \"Adenylate Cyclase\" gene into the heart muscle a biological cardiac pacemaker can be created.\n\nMore recently a gene called TBX18 has been non-invasively applied to speed up heart rates caused by heart block (2014), and light-sensitive genes that react to blue light have been injected in order \"to activate the heart simultaneously from a number of sites\" (2015).\n"}
{"id": "1170169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1170169", "title": "Chirality (physics)", "text": "Chirality (physics)\n\nA chiral phenomenon is one that is not identical to its mirror image (see the article on mathematical chirality). The spin of a particle may be used to define a handedness, or helicity, for that particle, which, in the case of a massless particle, is the same as chirality. A symmetry transformation between the two is called parity transformation. Invariance under parity transformation by a Dirac fermion is called chiral symmetry.\n\nAn experiment on the weak decay of cobalt-60 nuclei carried out by Chien-Shiung Wu and collaborators in 1957 demonstrated that parity is not a symmetry of the universe.\n\nThe helicity of a particle is \"right-handed\" if the direction of its spin is the same as the direction of its motion. It is \"left-handed\" if the directions of spin and motion are opposite. So a standard clock, with its spin vector defined by the rotation of its hands, tossed with its face directed forwards, has left-handed helicity.\n\nMathematically, helicity is the sign of the projection of the spin vector onto the momentum vector: “left” is negative, “right” is positive.\nThe \"chirality\" of a particle is more abstract: It is determined by whether the particle transforms in a right- or left-handed representation of the Poincaré group.\n\nFor massless particles – photons, gluons, and (hypothetical) gravitons – chirality is the same as helicity; a given massless particle appears to spin in the same direction along its axis of motion regardless of point of view of the observer.\n\nFor massive particles – such as electrons, quarks, and neutrinos – chirality and helicity must be distinguished: In the case of these particles, it is possible for an observer to change to a reference frame moving faster than the spinning particle, in which case the particle will then appear to move backwards, and its helicity (which may be thought of as “apparent chirality”) will be reversed.\n\nA \"massless\" particle moves with the speed of light, so no real observer (who must always travel at less than the speed of light) can be in any reference frame where the particle appears to reverse its relative direction of spin, meaning that all real observers see the same helicity. Because of this, the direction of spin of massless particles is not affected by a change of viewpoint (Lorentz boost) in the direction of motion of the particle, and the sign of the projection (helicity) is fixed for all reference frames: The helicity of massless particles is a “\"relativistic invariant\"” (a quantity whose value is the same in all inertial reference frames) which always matches the massless particles' chirality.\n\nThe discovery of neutrino oscillation implies that neutrinos have mass, so the only observed massless particle is the photon. The gluon is also expected to be massless, although the assumption that it is has not been conclusively tested. Hence, these are the only two particles now known for which helicity could be identical to chirality, and only one of them has been confirmed by measurement. All other observed particles have mass and thus may have different helicities in different reference frames. It is still possible that as-yet unobserved particles, like the graviton, might be massless, and hence have invariant helicity that matches their chirality, like the photon.\n\nOnly left-handed fermions and right-handed antifermions interact with the weak interaction.\nIn most circumstances, two left-handed fermions interact more strongly than right-handed or opposite-handed fermions, implying that the universe has a preference for left-handed chirality, which violates a symmetry of the other forces of nature.\n\nChirality for a Dirac fermion is defined through the operator , which has eigenvalues ±1. \nAny Dirac field can thus be projected into its left- or right-handed component by acting with the projection operators or on .\n\nThe coupling of the charged weak interaction to fermions is proportional to the first projection operator, which is responsible for this interaction's parity symmetry violation.\n\nA common source of confusion is due to conflating this operator with the helicity operator. Since the helicity of massive particles is frame-dependent, it might seem that the same particle would interact with the weak force according to one frame of reference, but not another. The resolution to this false paradox is that \"the chirality operator is equivalent to helicity for massless fields only\", for which helicity is not frame-dependent. By contrast, for massive particles, \"chirality is not the same as helicity\", so there is no frame dependence of the weak interaction: a particle that couples the weak force in one frame, does so in every frame.\n\nA theory that is asymmetric with respect to chiralities is called a \"chiral theory\", while a non-chiral (i.e., parity-symmetric) theory is sometimes called a \"vector theory\". Many pieces of the Standard Model of physics are non-chiral, which is traceable to anomaly cancellation in chiral theories. Quantum chromodynamics is an example of a \"vector theory\", since both chiralities of all quarks appear in the theory, and couple to gluons in the same way.\n\nThe electroweak theory, developed in the mid 20th century, is an example of a \"chiral theory\". Originally, it assumed that neutrinos were massless, and only assumed the existence of left-handed neutrinos (along with their complementary right-handed antineutrinos). After the observation of neutrino oscillations, which imply that neutrinos are massive like all other fermions, the revised theories of the electroweak interaction now include both right- and left-handed neutrinos. However, it is still a chiral theory, as it does not respect parity symmetry.\n\nThe exact nature of the neutrino is still unsettled and so the electroweak theories that have been proposed are somewhat different, but most accommodate the chirality of neutrinos in the same way as was already done for all other fermions.\n\nVector gauge theories with massless Dirac fermion fields exhibit chiral symmetry, i.e., rotating the left-handed and the right-handed components independently makes no difference to the theory. We can write this as the action of rotation on the fields:\nor\n\nWith flavors, we have unitary rotations instead: .\n\nMore generally, we write the right-handed and left-handed states as a projection operator acting on a spinor. The right-handed and left-handed projection operators are\nand\n\nMassive fermions do not exhibit chiral symmetry, as the mass term in the Lagrangian, , breaks chiral symmetry explicitly.\n\nSpontaneous chiral symmetry breaking may also occur in some theories, as it most notably does in quantum chromodynamics.\n\nThe chiral symmetry transformation can be divided into a component that treats the left-handed and the right-handed parts equally, known as vector symmetry, and a component that actually treats them differently, known as axial symmetry. (cf. Current algebra.) A scalar field model encoding chiral symmetry and its breaking is the chiral model.\n\nThe most common application is expressed as equal treatment of clockwise and counter-clockwise rotations from a fixed frame of reference.\n\nThe general principle is often referred to by the name chiral symmetry. The rule is absolutely valid in the classical mechanics of Newton and Einstein, but results from quantum mechanical experiments show a difference in the behavior of left-chiral versus right-chiral subatomic particles.\n\nConsider quantum chromodynamics (QCD) with two \"massless\" quarks and (massive fermions do not exhibit chiral symmetry). The Lagrangian reads\n\nIn terms of left-handed and right-handed spinors, it reads\n\nDefining\nit can be written as\n\nThe Lagrangian is unchanged under a rotation of \"q\" by any 2×2 unitary matrix , and \"q\" by any 2×2 unitary matrix .\n\nThis symmetry of the Lagrangian is called \"flavor chiral symmetry\", and denoted as . It decomposes into\n\nThe singlet vector symmetry, , acts as\nand corresponds to baryon number conservation.\n\nThe singlet axial group acts as\nand it does not correspond to a conserved quantity, because it is explicitly violated by a quantum anomaly.\n\nThe remaining chiral symmetry turns out to be spontaneously broken by a quark condensate \nformula_15 formed through nonperturbative action of QCD gluons, \ninto the diagonal vector subgroup \"SU(2)\" known as isospin. The Goldstone bosons corresponding to the three broken generators are the three pions. \nAs a consequence, the effective theory of QCD bound states like the baryons, must now include mass terms for them, ostensibly disallowed by unbroken chiral symmetry. Thus, this chiral symmetry breaking induces the bulk of hadron masses, such as those for the nucleons — in effect, the bulk of the mass of all visible matter.\n\nIn the real world, because of the nonvanishing and differing masses of the quarks, \"SU(2)×SU(2)\" is only an approximate symmetry to begin with, and therefore the pions are not massless, but have small masses: they are pseudo-Goldstone bosons.\n\nFor more \"light\" quark species, flavors in general, the corresponding chiral symmetries are \"U(N)×U(N)\", decomposing into\nand exhibiting a very analogous chiral symmetry breaking pattern.\n\nMost usually,  = 3 is taken, the \"u, d\", and \"s\" quarks taken to be light (the Eightfold way (physics)), so then approximately massless for the symmetry to be meaningful to a lowest order, while the other three quarks are sufficiently heavy to barely have a residual chiral symmetry be visible for practical purposes.\n\nIn theoretical physics, the electroweak model breaks parity maximally. All its fermions are chiral Weyl fermions, which means that the charged weak gauge bosons only couple to left-handed quarks and leptons. (Note that the neutral electroweak Z boson couples to left \"and\" right-handed fermions.)\n\nSome theorists found this objectionable, and so conjectured a GUT extension of the weak force which has new, high energy W' and Z' bosons, which now couple with right handed quarks and leptons:\nto\n\nHere, SU(2) (pronounced SU(2) left) is none other than the above SU(2), while B−L is the baryon number minus the lepton number. The electric charge formula in this model is given by\nwhere formula_20 are the weak isospin values of the fields in the theory.\n\nThere is also the chromodynamic SU(3). The idea was to restore parity by introducing a left-right symmetry. This is a group extension of Z (the left-right symmetry) by\nto the semidirect product\n\nThis has two connected components where Z acts as an automorphism, which is the composition of an involutive outer automorphism of SU(3) with the interchange of the left and right copies of SU(2) with the reversal of U(1). It was shown by Rabindra N. Mohapatra and Goran Senjanovic in 1975 that left-right symmetry can be spontaneously broken to give a chiral low energy theory, which is the Standard Model of Glashow, Weinberg and Salam and it also connects the small observed neutrino masses to the breaking of left-right symmetry via the seesaw mechanism.\n\nIn this setting, the chiral quarks\nand\nare unified into an irreducible representation (“irrep”)\n\nThe leptons are also unified into an irreducible representation\n\nThe Higgs bosons needed to implement the breaking of left-right symmetry down to the Standard Model\nare\n\nThis then predicts three sterile neutrinos, which is perfectly consistent with neutrino oscillation data. Within the seesaw mechanism, the sterile neutrinos become superheavy without affecting physics at low energies.\n\nBecause the left-right symmetry is spontaneously broken, left-right models predict domain walls.\nThis left-right symmetry idea first appeared in the Pati–Salam model (1974), Mohapatra–Pati models (1975).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18416858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18416858", "title": "Christine Abrahams", "text": "Christine Abrahams\n\nChristine Abrahams was a gallery director and major supporter of contemporary Australian art in Melbourne since the 1970s. \n\nArtist Lenton Parr said of Christine that she valued art \"as a gift to the spirit and a source of pleasure and enlightenment.\"\nShe was Manager of Powell Street Gallery between 1976 and 1980 (the lessees were Melbourne solicitor Harry Curtis and a Caulfield doctor, David Rosenthal), and a Co-Director of Axiom Gallery from 1980 to 1982. \n\nChristine founded the eponymous Christine Abrahams Gallery on 12 February 1983 at 27 Gipps Street Richmond, an inner, once-industrial, suburb of Melbourne, in the same precinct as an increasing number of other commercial galleries, including the long-running Pinacotheca Gallery.\n\nThe building was converted in 1980 from a clothing factory by the architect of Abrahams' own 1982 Brighton residence, Daryl Jackson, who preserved the industrial aesthetic of exposed trusses, bare concrete floors and steel roller-door. Jackson himself exhibited at the gallery in April 1984, showing drawings and models for a 'more humane' neo-industrial style.\n\nChristine Abrahams Gallery showed a broad spectrum of visual arts by contemporary artists, architects, sculptors, potters, photographers, jewellers, and furniture makers. It was operated after Christine's death in 1994 by her son Guy Abrahams, who had been co-director since 1987. \n\nThe gallery closed after 25 years in November 2008.\n\nChristine initiated the influential Australian Contemporary Art Fair (now Melbourne Art Fair) and was a member of its organising committee in 1988, 1990 and 1992. \n\nShe was on the board of the Fifth Australian Sculpture Triennial (1993) and was a member of the Visual Art Export Group of the Australia Council and the Craft Council of Victoria.\n"}
{"id": "4273784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4273784", "title": "Coda (comics)", "text": "Coda (comics)\n\nThe Coda is a group of fictional female warriors in Wildstorm comics. The Coda first appeared in \"WildC.A.T.S.\" volume 1 #1 (August, 1992) and were created by Brandon Choi and Jim Lee. \n\nThe Coda are a particular race of all female aliens who live on the planet Khera. They are trained in their own unique form of martial arts. Their weapon of choice is the Clef Blade, a weapon resembling a harpoon or a lance, though they often wield swords or even modern firearms. Coda warriors usually wear red markings on their face. A sign (usually a circle) on the forehead and stripes on the cheeks) depicting their ranking within the sisterhood. A second class group of Coda warriors of different species have formed on various planets, carrying the blood of original Coda warriors only.\n\nThe Coda was founded on the planet Khera, home to the Kherubim. The Kherubim were a race blessed with longevity, but the downside was that they had become nearly infertile. Childbirth was a great honor and therefore every Kheran had to participate in a ritual in which a Kheran female and a Kheran male had to couple once. Should the female become pregnant and give birth, she would go on to become a priestess. Otherwise she could do with her life as she pleased. Lady Zannah had been selected to mate with Majestros and their union did result in childbirth, the child Kenesha. Zannah, though, loved being a warrior; so her mother, Harmony, proposed a plan: She would tell her people that Zannah's child had died, and would raise Kenesha as her own daughter. Zannah accepted, and Harmony became a figure of legend, the only Kherubim to have given birth to more than one child in ages. This legend was the foundation of the Sisterhood known as the Coda, a completely female caste of warriors, devoted to the honor of combat. Their male counterpart is known as the Brotherhood of the Sword. Over the millennia, the Coda would grow in power, and at present they are the second largest political faction within Kherubim society. Only the Pantheon is slightly larger. The Coda's headquarters is Zealot's former home, the Tower of Red Lament. Among the Coda on Khera, there is a small cell of elite assassins called the Skein. They have no known counterpart among the Earthborn Coda. The first rule of The Coda is: \"The weapon is the extension of the flesh, the flesh of the mind, the mind of the soul\".\n\nThe Kherubim were at war with the Daemonites, another spacefaring race. During a ship-to-ship combat, a Kheran and a Daemonite vessel crashlanded on Earth. Both Zannah and Kenesha were on board this vessel. The Kherubim were physically identical to humans and quickly integrated within human society, inspiring tales of superhuman heroes, gods and angels. The Daemonites had the ability to possess human hosts and inspired tales of possession, demons and monsters. Their war continued underground. \n\nTo aid them in their war, Zannah, now called Zealot and two of her fellow Coda generals, Andromache and Artemis, started training human Coda Warriors, giving birth to the myth of the Amazons. They established a hidden Coda city on Mt. Themyscira in Greece. Kenesha took the name Savant, but had no desire to join the Coda. As the Earthborn sisterhood are not born immortals, the immortal members take part in a \"Blood Dance\" with the newer members worthy of being called Coda Warriors. In the ritual they cut each other in a ritualistic dance and rub each other's wounds, thus mingling the blood, transferring the immortal blood into the non-immortal. The blood of a Kherubim, mingled with a human's during a special ritual, gave the gift of longevity to normal humans and this became an important ritual for Earth's Coda. The Kheran Coda sisterhood have been shown to perform this ritual also, but as they are all immortal, their reasons have more to do with the symbolic than with the need for survival. The Coda's Cleft Blades, both on Khera and on Earth, are considered very sacred to the sisterhood. They are only to be used in a death duel or in their ritual Blood Dance. During a battle near Troy (presumably the Trojan War), Zealot's actions branded her as a traitor to the rest of the Coda, to be killed on sight. The Coda general Andromache took over the role of Majestrix. Under her rule the Coda began selling their skills to the highest bidders and became less noble warriors and more power hungry conquerors. They also began establishing smaller Coda bases around the world. Though Mt. Themyscira still proved to be the oldest and most sacred of homes to the Amazons, the Coda have also been shown to reside in a massive island off the coast of Africa which they refer to as the Coda Citadel, as discovered by members of Gen¹³. As Zealot was seen as a traitor to the sisterhood, she became a constant target of The Coda for several centuries.\nIn the mid 20th century, Zealot trained Grifter in the fighting style of the Coda, making him the first male Coda. When the Coda discovered this they marked Grifter a target for extermination as they believed the Coda ways are only to be carried by women. By now many Coda were working for the Cabal, an organisation founded by the Daemonites. Zealot, Grifter and Savant all were part of the WildC.A.T.s and Zealot also eventually trained WildC.A.T.s member Voodoo in the Coda martial arts. The WildC.A.T.s and Coda fought often. The WildC.A.T.s returned once to Khera where Zealot was nearly assassinated by her own Coda Sisters, just to make her a martyr for their cause. Zealot was disgusted with the Sisters betrayal of their ideals and returned to Earth with the other WildC.A.T.s.\n\nSeveral months later on Earth, Zealot apparently died on a mission causing the WildC.A.T.s to disband. She decided that the actions of the Coda on Earth and on Khera proved that the Coda had become corrupt and decided that the corruption had to be destroyed. She set out to single-handedly erase the Coda from the face of the Earth. She killed all Coda in America she could find, but spared Grifter, because of their shared romantic past. She warned him not to follow her.\n\nZealot continued her quest in Europe and destroyed most of the Coda there, but was captured by their top agent, The Grand Sarin. Grifter gathered several allies to save her, resulting in a war between his forces and the Coda. In the end, his small group turned out not to be enough, but Grifter called in the help of former WildC.A.T.s member and his current employer, Jack Marlowe, who used his powers to teleport part of the Mediterranean Sea on top of the Coda, drowning many of them. Majestrix Andromache survived and with her surviving troops she faced Grifter and his friends. At the same time FBI-agent Chandler, whose partner had been killed by the Coda, had found the Coda's armory. Chandler detonated the armory, blowing up the entire Coda base. Grifter and his friends were teleported away by Marlowe in time, but Andromache and her soldiers were caught in the blast.\n\nCurrently there are only few Earth-born Coda left. Majestrix Andromache was among the Coda fighting Grifter and his allies and died in the explosion. Recently, in the pages of \"Majestic\", Mister Majestic and Zealot have encountered Kherubim Coda Warriors on Earth. Also the Coda-traitor Charis (known as Nemesis) recently joined forces with the former WildC.A.T.s in the pages of \"Wildcats: Nemesis\". During the \"Wildstorm Armageddon\" story line The few remaining Coda were gathered up by the thought long dead Devin, formerly excommunicated acolyte of their order who survived into obscurity until the end of the world occurred. Gathering up the few remaining Coda survivors of the Post Apocalyptic world to create her own sisterhood, with her as Majestrix, which expanded its numbers through the weary travelers and soccer moms looking for safe respite that only her sect could provide, all while keeping any capable males captured as breeding labor in order to proliferate their ranks; Devin would eventually come into conflict with a past Caitlin Fairchild and her weathered survivor friends of Gen 13.\n\n\nNote: both Savant and Voodoo have had Coda-training, but neither have devoted themselves enough to be considered true Coda warriors.\n"}
{"id": "3038539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3038539", "title": "Composite gravity", "text": "Composite gravity\n\nIn theoretical physics, composite gravity refers to models that attempted to derive general relativity in a framework where the graviton is constructed as a composite bound state of more elementary particles, usually fermions. A theorem by Steven Weinberg and Edward Witten shows that this is not possible in Lorentz covariant theories: massless particles with spin greater than one are forbidden. The AdS/CFT correspondence may be viewed as a loophole in their argument. However, in this case not only the graviton is emergent; a whole spacetime dimension is emergent, too.\n\n"}
{"id": "2923321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2923321", "title": "Emergency psychiatry", "text": "Emergency psychiatry\n\nEmergency psychiatry is the clinical application of psychiatry in emergency settings. Conditions requiring psychiatric interventions may include attempted suicide, substance abuse, depression, psychosis, violence or other rapid changes in behavior. Psychiatric emergency services are rendered by professionals in the fields of medicine, nursing, psychology and social work. The demand for emergency psychiatric services has rapidly increased throughout the world since the 1960s, especially in urban areas. Care for patients in situations involving emergency psychiatry is complex.\n\nIndividuals may arrive in psychiatric emergency service settings through their own voluntary request, a referral from another health professional, or through involuntary commitment. Care of patients requiring psychiatric intervention usually encompasses crisis stabilization of many serious and potentially life-threatening conditions which could include acute or chronic mental disorders or symptoms similar to those conditions.\n\nSymptoms and conditions behind psychiatric emergencies may include attempted suicide, substance dependence, alcohol intoxication, acute depression, presence of delusions, violence, panic attacks, and significant, rapid changes in behavior. Emergency psychiatry exists to identify and/or treat these symptoms and psychiatric conditions. In addition, several rapidly lethal medical conditions present themselves with common psychiatric symptoms. A physician's or a nurse's ability to identify and intervene with these and other medical conditions is critical.\n\nThe place where emergency psychiatric services are delivered are most commonly referred to as Psychiatric Emergency Services, Psychiatric Emergency Care Centers, or Comprehensive Psychiatric Emergency Programs. Mental health professionals from a wide area of disciplines, including medicine, nursing, psychology, and social work in these settings alongside psychiatrists and emergency physicians. The facilities, sometimes housed in a psychiatric hospital, psychiatric ward, or emergency department, provide immediate treatment to both voluntary and involuntary patients 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.\n\nWithin a protected environment, psychiatric emergency services exist to provide brief stay of two or three days to gain a diagnostic clarity, find appropriate alternatives to psychiatric hospitalization for the patient, and to treat those patients whose symptoms can be improved within that brief period of time. Even precise psychiatric diagnoses are a secondary priority compared with interventions in a crisis setting. The functions of psychiatric emergency services are to assess patients' problems, implement a short-term treatment consisting of no more than ten meetings with the patient, procure a 24-hour holding area, mobilize teams to carry out interventions at patients' residences, utilize emergency management services to prevent further crises, be aware of inpatient and outpatient psychiatric resources, and provide 24/7 telephone counseling.\n\nSince the 1960s the demand for emergency psychiatric services has endured a rapid growth due to deinstitutionalization both in Europe and the United States. Deinstitutionalization, in some locations, has resulted in a larger number of severely mentally ill people living in the community. There have been increases in the number of medical specialties, and the multiplication of transitory treatment options, such as psychiatric medication. The actual number of psychiatric emergencies has also increased significantly, especially in psychiatric emergency service settings located in urban areas.\n\nEmergency psychiatry has involved the evaluation and treatment of unemployed, homeless and other disenfranchised populations. Emergency psychiatry services have sometimes been able to offer accessibility, convenience, and anonymity. While many of the patients who have used psychiatric emergency services shared common sociological and demographic characteristics, the symptoms and needs expressed have not conformed to any single psychiatric profile. The individualized care needed for patients utilizing psychiatric emergency services is evolving, requiring an always changing and sometimes complex treatment approach.\n\nAs of 2000, the World Health Organization estimated one million suicides in the world each year. There are countless more suicide attempts. Psychiatric emergency service settings exist to treat the mental disorders associated with an increased risk of completed suicide or suicide attempts. Mental health professionals in these settings are expected to predict acts of violence patients may commit against themselves (or others), even though the complex factors leading to a suicide can stem from many sources, including psychosocial, biological, interpersonal, anthropological, and religious. These mental health professionals will use any resources available to them to determine risk factors, make an overall assessment, and decide on any necessary treatment.\n\nAggression can be the result of both internal and external factors that create a measurable activation in the autonomic nervous system. This activation can become evident through symptoms such as the clenching of fists or jaw, pacing, slamming doors, hitting palms of hands with fists, or being easily startled. It is estimated that 17% of visits to psychiatric emergency service settings are homicidal in origin and an additional 5% involve both suicide and homicide. Violence is also associated with many conditions such as acute intoxication, acute psychosis, paranoid personality disorder, antisocial personality disorder, narcissistic personality disorder and borderline personality disorder. Additional risk factors have also been identified which may lead to violent behavior. Such risk factors may include prior arrests, presence of hallucinations, delusions or other neurological impairment, being uneducated, unmarried, etc. Mental health professionals complete violence risk assessments to determine both security measures and treatments for the patient.\n\nPatients with psychotic symptoms are common in psychiatric emergency service settings. The determination of the source of the psychosis can be difficult. Sometimes patients brought into the setting in a psychotic state have been disconnected from their previous treatment plan. While the psychiatric emergency service setting will not be able to provide long term care for these types of patients, it can exist to provide a brief respite and reconnect the patient to their case manager and/or reintroduce necessary psychiatric medication. A visit to a crisis unit by a patient suffering from a chronic mental disorder may also indicate the existence of an undiscovered precipitant, such as change in the lifestyle of the individual, or a shifting medical condition. These considerations can play a part in an improvement to an existing treatment plan.\n\nAn individual could also be suffering from an acute onset of psychosis. Such conditions can be prepared for diagnosis by obtaining a medical or psychopathological history of a patient, performing a mental status examination, conducting psychological testing, obtaining neuroimages, and obtaining other neurophysiologic measurements. Following this, the mental health professional can perform a differential diagnosis and prepare the patient for treatment. As with other patient care considerations, the origins of acute psychosis can be difficult to determine because of the mental state of the patient. However, acute psychosis is classified as a medical emergency requiring immediate and complete attention. The lack of identification and treatment can result in suicide, homicide, or other violence.\n\nAnother common cause of psychotic symptoms is substance intoxication. These acute symptoms may resolve after a period of observation or limited psychopharmacological treatment. However the underlying issues, such as substance dependence or abuse, is difficult to treat in the emergency department, as it is a long term condition. Both acute alcohol intoxication as well as other forms of substance abuse can require psychiatric interventions. Acting as a depressant of the central nervous system, the early effects of alcohol are usually desired for and characterized by increased talkativeness, giddiness, and a loosening of social inhibitions. Besides considerations of impaired concentration, verbal and motor performance, insight, judgment and short term memory loss which could result in behavioral change causing injury or death, levels of alcohol below 60 milligrams per deciliter of blood are usually considered non-lethal. However, individuals at 200 milligrams per deciliter of blood are considered grossly intoxicated and concentration levels at 400 milligrams per deciliter of blood are lethal, causing complete anesthesia of the respiratory system.\n\nBeyond the dangerous behavioral changes that occur after the consumption of certain amounts of alcohol, idiosyncratic intoxication could occur in some individuals even after the consumption of relatively small amounts of alcohol. Episodes of this impairment usually consist of confusion, disorientation, delusions and visual hallucinations, increased aggressiveness, rage, agitation and violence. Chronic alcoholics may also suffer from alcoholic hallucinosis, wherein the cessation of prolonged drinking may trigger auditory hallucinations. Such episodes can last for a few hours or an entire week. Antipsychotics are often used to treat these symptoms.\n\nPatients may also be treated for substance abuse following the administration of psychoactive substances containing amphetamine, caffeine, tetrahydrocannabinol, cocaine, phencyclidines, or other inhalants, opioids, sedatives, hypnotics, anxiolytics, psychedelics, dissociatives and deliriants. Clinicians assessing and treating substance abusers must establish therapeutic rapport to counter denial and other negative attitudes directed towards treatment. In addition, the clinician must determine substances used, the route of administration, dosage, and time of last use to determine the necessary short and long term treatments. An appropriate choice of treatment setting must also be determined. These settings may include outpatient facilities, partial hospitals, residential treatment centers, or hospitals. Both the immediate and long term treatment and setting is determined by the severity of dependency and seriousness of physiological complications arising from the abuse.\n\nOverdoses, drug interactions, and dangerous reactions from psychiatric medications, especially antipsychotics, are considered psychiatric emergencies. Neuroleptic malignant syndrome is a potentially lethal complication of first or second generation antipsychotics. If untreated, neuroleptic malignant syndrome can result in fever, muscle rigidity, confusion, unstable vital signs, or even death. Serotonin syndrome can result when selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors or monoamine oxidase inhibitors mix with buspirone. Severe symptoms of serotonin syndrome include hyperthermia, delirium, and tachycardia that may lead to shock. Often patients with severe general medical symptoms, such as unstable vital signs, will be transferred to a general medical emergency department or medicine service for increased monitoring.\n\nDisorders manifesting dysfunction in areas related to cognition, affectivity, interpersonal functioning and impulse control can be considered personality disorders. Patients suffering from a personality disorder will usually not complain about symptoms resulting from their disorder. Patients suffering an emergency phase of a personality disorder may showcase combative or suspicious behavior, suffer from brief psychotic episodes, or be delusional. Compared with outpatient settings and the general population, the prevalence of individuals suffering from personality disorders in inpatient psychiatric settings is usually 7–25% higher. Clinicians working with such patients attempt to stabilize the individual to their baseline level of function.\n\nPatients suffering from an extreme case of anxiety may seek treatment when all support systems have been exhausted and they are unable to bear the anxiety. Feelings of anxiety may present in different ways from an underlying medical illness or psychiatric disorder, a secondary functional disturbance from another psychiatric disorder, from a primary psychiatric disorder such as panic disorder or generalized anxiety disorder, or as a result of stress from such conditions as adjustment disorder or post-traumatic stress disorder. Clinicians usually attempt to first provide a \"safe harbor\" for the patient so that assessment processes and treatments can be adequately facilitated. The initiation of treatments for mood and anxiety disorders are important as patients suffering from anxiety disorders have a higher risk of premature death.\n\nNatural disasters and man-made hazards can cause severe psychological stress in victims surrounding the event. Emergency management often includes psychiatric emergency services designed to help victims cope with the situation. The impact of disasters can cause people to feel shocked, overwhelmed, immobilized, panic-stricken, or confused. Hours, days, months and even years after a disaster, individuals can experience tormenting memories, vivid nightmares, develop apathy, withdrawal, memory lapses, fatigue, loss of appetite, insomnia, depression, irritability, panic attacks, or dysphoria.\n\nDue to the typically disorganized and hazardous environment following a disaster, mental health professionals typically assess and treat patients as rapidly as possible. Unless a condition is threatening life of the patient, or others around the patient, other medical and basic survival considerations are managed first. Soon after a disaster clinicians may make themselves available to allow individuals to ventilate to relieve feelings of isolation, helplessness and vulnerability. Dependent upon the scale of the disaster, many victims may suffer from both chronic or acute post-traumatic stress disorder. Patients suffering severely from this disorder often are admitted to psychiatric hospitals to stabilize the individual.\n\nIncidents of physical abuse, sexual abuse or rape can result in dangerous outcomes to the victim of the criminal act. Victims may suffer from extreme anxiety, fear, helplessness, confusion, eating or sleeping disorders, hostility, guilt and shame. Managing the response usually encompasses coordinating psychological, medical and legal considerations. Dependent upon legal requirements in the region, mental health professionals may be required to report criminal activity to a police force. Mental health professionals will usually gather identifying data during the initial assessment and refer the patient, if necessary, to receive medical treatment. Medical treatment may include a physical examination, collection of medicolegal evidence, and determination of the risk of pregnancy, if applicable.\n\nTreatments in psychiatric emergency service settings are typically transitory in nature and only exist to provide dispositional solutions and/or to stabilize life-threatening conditions. Once stabilized, patients suffering chronic conditions may be transferred to a setting which can provide long term psychiatric rehabilitation. Prescribed treatments within the emergency service setting vary dependent upon the patient's condition. Different forms of psychiatric medication, psychotherapy, or electroconvulsive therapy may be used in the emergency setting. The introduction and efficacy of psychiatric medication as a treatment option in psychiatry has reduced the utilization of physical restraints in emergency settings, by reducing dangerous symptoms resulting from acute exacerbation of mental illness or substance intoxication.\n\nWith time as a critical aspect of emergency psychiatry, the rapidity of effect is an important consideration. Pharmacokinetics is the movement of drugs through the body with time and is at least partially reliant upon the route of administration, absorption, distribution and metabolism of the medication. A common route of administration is oral administration, however if this method is to work the drug must be able to get to the stomach and stay there. In cases of vomiting and nausea this method of administration is not an option. Suppositories can, in some situations, be administered instead. Medication can also be administered through intramuscular injection, or through intravenous injection.\n\nThe amount of time required for absorption varies dependent upon many factors including drug solubility, gastrointestinal motility and pH. If a medication is administered orally the amount of food in the stomach may also affect the rate of absorption. Once absorbed medications must be distributed throughout the body, or usually with the case of psychiatric medication, past the blood–brain barrier to the brain. With all of these factors affecting the rapidity of effect, the time until the effects are evident varies. Generally, though, the timing with medications is relatively fast and can occur within several minutes. As an example, physicians usually expect to see a remission of symptoms thirty minutes after haloperidol, an antipsychotic, is administered intramuscularly. Antipsychotics, especially Haloperidol, as well as assorted benzodiazepines are the most frequently used drugs in emergency psychiatry, especially agitation.\n\nOther treatment methods may be used in psychiatric emergency service settings. Brief psychotherapy can be used to treat acute conditions or immediate problems as long as the patient understands his or her issues are psychological, the patient trusts the physician, the physician can encourage hope for change, the patient has motivation to change, the physician is aware of the psychopathological history of the patient, and the patient understands that their confidentiality will be respected. The process of brief therapy under emergency psychiatric conditions includes the establishment of a primary complaint from the patient, realizing psychosocial factors, formulating an accurate representation of the problem, coming up with ways to solve the problem, and setting specific goals. The information gathering aspect of brief psychotherapy is therapeutic because it helps the patient place his or her problem in the proper perspective. If the physician determines that deeper psychotherapy sessions are required, he or she can transition the patient out of the emergency setting and into an appropriate clinic or center.\n\nElectroconvulsive therapy is a controversial form of treatment which cannot be involuntarily applied in psychiatric emergency service settings. Instances wherein a patient is depressed to such a severe degree that the patient cannot be stopped from hurting himself or herself or when a patient refuses to swallow, eat or drink medication, electroconvulsive therapy could be suggested as a therapeutic alternative. While preliminary research suggests that electroconvulsive therapy may be an effective treatment for depression, it usually requires a course of six to twelve sessions of convulsions lasting at least 20 seconds for those antidepressant effects to occur.\n\nThere are other essential aspects of emergency psychiatry: observation and collateral information. The observation of the patient's behavior is an important aspect of emergency psychiatry inasmuch as it allows the clinicians working with the patient to estimate prognosis and improvements/declines in condition. Many jurisdictions base involuntary commitment on dangerousness or the inability to care for one's basic needs. Observation for a period of time may help determine this. For example, if a patient who is committed for violent behavior in the community, continues to behave in an erratic manner without clear purpose, this will help the staff decide that hospital admission may be needed.\n\nCollateral information or parallel information is information obtained from family, friends or treatment providers of the patient. Some jurisdictions require consent from the patient to obtain this information while others do not. For example, with a patient who is thought to be paranoid about people following him or spying on him, this information can be helpful discern if these thoughts are more or less likely to be based in reality. Past episodes of suicide attempts or violent behavior can be confirmed or disproven.\n\nPatient receive emergency services often on a time limited basis such as 24 or 72 hours. After this time, and sometimes earlier, the staff must decide the next place for the patient to receive services. This is referred to as disposition. This is one of the essential features of emergency psychiatry.\n\nThe staff will need to determine if the patient needs to be admitted to a psychiatric inpatient facility or if they can be safely discharged to the community after a period of observation and/or brief treatment. Initial emergency psychiatric evaluations usually involve patients who are acutely agitated, paranoid, or who are suicidal. Initial evaluations to determine admission and interventions are designed to be as therapeutic as possible.\n\nInvoluntary commitment, or sectioning, refers to situations where police officers, health officers, or health professionals classify an individual as dangerous to themselves, others, gravely disabled, or mentally ill according to the applicable government law for the region. After an individual is transported to a psychiatric emergency service setting, a preliminary professional assessment is completed which may or may not result in involuntary treatment. Some patients may be discharged shortly after being brought to psychiatric emergency services while others will require longer observation and the need for continued involuntary commitment will exist. While some patients may initially come voluntarily, it may be realized that they pose a risk to themselves or others and involuntary commitment may be initiated at that point.\n\nIn some locations, such as the United States, voluntary hospitalizations are outnumbered by involuntary commitments partly due to the fact that insurance tends not to pay for hospitalization unless an imminent danger exists to the individual or community. In addition, psychiatric emergency service settings admit approximately one third of patients from assertive community treatment centers. Therefore, patients who are not admitted will be referred to services in the community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2252874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2252874", "title": "Epidemiology of suicide", "text": "Epidemiology of suicide\n\nAn estimated 1 million people worldwide die by suicide every year. It is estimated that global annual suicide fatalities could rise to over 1.5 million by 2020. Globally, suicide ranks among the three leading causes of death among those aged 15–44 years. Attempted suicides are up to 20 times more frequent than completed ones.\n\nIncidence of suicide in a society depends on a range of factors. Clinical depression is an especially common cause. Substance abuse and severe physical disease or infirmity are also recognized as causes. The Eastern Europe and East Asia regions have the highest suicide rate worldwide. The region with the lowest suicide rate is the Caribbean, followed by the Middle East.\n\nGender differences play a significant role in suicide as well. Furthermore, among all age groups in most of the world, females tend to show higher rates of reported nonfatal suicidal behaviors, while males have a much higher rate of completed suicides.\n\nIn most countries the incidence of suicides is higher than the incidence of intentional homicides. More people die of suicide than die of war and murder.\n\nA 2006 report by the World Health Organization (WHO) states that nearly a million people take their own lives every year, more than those murdered or killed in war. WHO figures show a suicide takes place somewhere in the world roughly every 40 seconds.\n\nAccording to the National Institute of Mental Health, suicide contagion is a serious problem, especially for young people. Suicide can be facilitated in vulnerable teens by exposure to real or fictional accounts of suicide, including media coverage of suicide, such as intensive reporting of the suicide of a celebrity or idol.\n\nSuicide rates are highest in Europe's Baltic states, where around 40 people per 100,000 die by suicide each year. The lowest rates are found mainly in Caribbean/West Indies nations and a few countries in Asia.\n\nAs many as 60,000 people commit suicide in Russia every year; approximately 30,000 people die by suicide each year in the United States; over 30,000 kill themselves in Japan; and about 25,000 commit suicide each year in China. In western countries men commit suicide at four times the rate of women. Women are more likely to attempt suicide than men.\n\nThe countries of the former Soviet Bloc have the highest suicide rate in the world. Rate of suicide in South Korea is the highest among any other East Asian countries. The region with the lowest suicide rate is Latin America.\n\nChina is the only country in the world where the rate of suicide by women matches that of men, with statistics even showing a slightly higher number of female cases.\n\nIn the United States, males are four times more likely to die by suicide than females, although more women than men report suicide attempts and self-harm with suicidal intentions. Male suicide rates are higher than females in all age groups (the ratio varies from 3:1 to 10:1). In other western countries, males are also much more likely to die by suicide than females (usually by a factor of 3–4:1). It was the 8th leading cause of death for males, and 19th leading cause of death for females.\n\nExcess male mortality from suicide is lower in non-Western where as of 2015 in China (about one fifth of world population) and seven more countries it is absent, with females more likely to die by suicide than males by a factor of 1.3–1.6\n\nIn 2003, in the United States, whites and Asians were nearly 2.5 times more likely to kill themselves than were blacks or Hispanics. There is a marked divergence by age as seen in the chart below. In the eastern portion of the world (primarily in Asian or Pacific-Island countries) the numbers of reported suicides is growing every year.\n\nThe likelihood of suicide attempts are increased in both gay males and lesbians, as well as bisexuals of both sexes when compared to their heterosexual counterparts. The trend of having a higher incident rate among females is no exception with lesbians or bisexual females and when compared with homosexual males, lesbians are more likely to attempt than gay or bisexual males.\n\nStudies vary with just how increased the risk is compared to heterosexuals with a low of 0.8-1.1 times more likely for females and 1.5-2.5 times more likely for males. The highs reach 4.6 more likely in females and 14.6 more likely in males.\n\nRace and age play a factor in the increased risk. The highest ratios for males are attributed to caucasians when they are in their youth. By the age of 25, their risk is down to less than half of what it was however black gay males risk steadily increases to 8.6 times more likely. Through a lifetime the risks are 5.7 for white and 12.8 for black gay and bisexual males.\n\nLesbian and bisexual females have opposite effects with less attempts in youth when compared to heterosexual females. Through a lifetime the likelihood to attempt nearly triple the youth 1.1 ratio for caucasian females, however for black females the rate is affected very little (less than 0.1 to 0.3 difference) with heterosexual black females having a slightly higher risk throughout most of the age-based study.\n\nGay and lesbian youth who attempt suicide are disproportionately subject to anti-gay attitudes, and have weaker skills for coping with discrimination, isolation, and loneliness, and were more likely to experience family rejection than those who do not attempt suicide. Another study found that gay and bisexual youth who attempted suicide had more feminine gender roles, adopted an LGB identity at a young age and were more likely than peers to report sexual abuse, drug abuse, and arrests for misconduct.\n\nOne study found that same-sex sexual behavior, but not homosexual attraction or homosexual identity, was significantly predictive of suicide among Norwegian adolescents. In Denmark, the age-adjusted suicide mortality risk for men in registered domestic partnerships was nearly eight times greater than for men with positive histories of heterosexual marriage and nearly twice as high for men who had never married.\n\nA study of suicide, undertaken in Sweden, involved the analysis of data records for 6,456 same-sex married couples and 1,181,723 man-women marriages. Even with Sweden's tolerant attitude regarding homosexuality, it was determined that for same-sex married men the suicide risk was nearly three times higher than for different-sex married men, even after an adjustment for HIV status. For women, it was shown that there was a tentatively elevated suicide risk for same-sex married women over that of different-sex married women.\n\nHigher levels of social and national cohesion reduce suicide rates. Suicide levels are highest among the retired, unemployed, impoverished, divorced, the childless, urbanites, empty nesters, and other people who live alone. Suicide rates also rise during times of economic uncertainty. (Although poverty is not a direct cause, it can contribute to the risk of suicide).\nEpidemiological studies generally show a relationship between suicide or suicidal behaviors and socio-economic disadvantage, including limited educational achievement, homelessness, unemployment, economic dependence, and contact with the police or justice system. War is traditionally believed to be associated with a fall in suicide rates; however, this has been questioned in recent studies, showing a more complex picture than previously conceived.\n\nA 2015 UK study by the Office for National Statistics, commissioned by Public Health England, which considered 18,998 deaths of people aged between 20 and 64, found that men working in the construction industry and women employed in culture, media and sport, healthcare and primary school teaching were at the highest risk of suicide.\n\nDepression, either unipolar or as part of bipolar disorder, is an especially common cause. Substance abuse, severe physical disease or infirmity are also recognized causes.\n\nAn unknown number of suicidal fatalities are falsely presumed to be the consequences of severe illnesses, infectious, malignant, mental et cetera.\n\nRisk of suicide may decrease with increased weight and is low in obese persons. The connection is not well understood, but it is hypothesized that elevated body weight results in higher circulating levels of tryptophan, serotonin, and leptin, which in turn reduces impulsivity.\n\nHowever, other studies indicate that suicide rates increase with extreme obesity, and it is difficult to control for conflating factors such as BMI-related differences in longevity, which have a significant bearing on suicide rates.\n\nThe idea that suicide is more common during the winter holidays (including Christmas in the northern hemisphere) is actually a myth, generally reinforced by media coverage associating suicide with the holiday season. The National Center for Health Statistics found that suicides drop during the winter months, and peak during spring and early summer. Considering that there is a correlation between the winter season and rates of depression, there are theories that this might be accounted for by capability to commit suicide and relative cheerfulness. Suicide has also been linked to other seasonal factors.\n\nThe variation in suicides by day of week is actually greater than any seasonal variation.\n\nCertain time trends can be related to the type of death. In the United Kingdom, for example, the steady rise in suicides from 1945 to 1962-63 was probably to some extent curtailed following the removal of carbon monoxide from domestic gas supplies which occurred with the change from coal gas to natural gas during the sixties. Methods vary across cultures, and the easy availability of lethal agents and materials plays a role.\n\nIt is estimated that global annual suicide fatalities could rise to 1.5 million by 2020.\nWorldwide, suicide ranks among the three leading causes of death among those aged 15–44 years. Suicide attempts are up to 20 times more frequent than completed suicides.\n\nHistorical data show lower suicide rates during periods of war.\n\n"}
{"id": "31117396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31117396", "title": "Euthanasia in India", "text": "Euthanasia in India\n\nSince March 2018, passive euthanasia is legal in India under strict guidelines. Patients must consent through a living will, and must be either terminally ill or in a vegetative state.\n\nOn 9 March 2018 the Supreme Court of India legalised passive euthanasia by means of the withdrawal of life support to patients in a permanent vegetative state. The decision was made as part of the verdict in a case involving Aruna Shanbaug, who had been in a Persistent Vegetative State (PVS) until her death in 2015.\n\nOn 9 March 2018, the Supreme Court of India, passed a historic judgement-law permitting Passive Euthanasia in the country. This judgment was passed in wake of Pinki Virani’s plea to lust highest court in December 2009 under the Constitutional provision of “Next Friend”. It’s a landmark law which places the power of choice in the hands of the individual, over government, medical or religious control which sees all suffering as “destiny”. The Supreme Court specified two irreversible conditions to permit Passive Euthanasia Law in its 2011 Law: (I) The brain-dead for whom the ventilator can be switched off (II) Those in a Persistent Vegetative State (PVS) for whom the feed can be tapered out and pain-managing palliatives be added, according to laid-down international specifications.\n\nThe same judgement-law also asked for the scrapping of 309, the code which penalises those who survive suicide-attempts. In December 2014, government of India declared it's intention to do so.\n\nHowever, on 25 February 2014, a three-judge bench of Supreme Court of India had termed the judgment in the \"Aruna Shanbaug case to be 'inconsistent in itself' and has referred the issue of euthanasia to its five-judge Constitution bench.\n\nAnd on December 23, 2014, Government of India endorsed and re-validated the Passive Euthanasia judgement-law in a Press Release, after stating in the Rajya Sabha as follows: that The Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in its judgment dated 7.3.2011 [WP (Criminal) No. 115 of 2009], while dismissing the plea for mercy killing in a particular case, laid down comprehensive guidelines to process cases relating to passive euthanasia. Thereafter, the matter of mercy killing was examined in consultation with the Ministry of Law and Justice and it has been decided that since the Hon'ble Supreme Court has already laid down the guidelines, these should be followed and treated as law in such cases. At present, there is no proposal to enact legislation on this subject and the judgment of the Hon'ble Supreme Court is binding on all. The Health Minister, J P Nadda stated this in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha.\n\nThe high court rejected active euthanasia by means of lethal injection. In the absence of a law regulating euthanasia in India, the court stated that its decision becomes the law of the land until the Indian parliament enacts a suitable law. Active euthanasia, including the administration of lethal compounds for the purpose of ending life, is still illegal in India, and in most countries.\n\nIn 2018 the Supreme Court of India declared through a five-judge Constitution bench that, if strict guidelines are followed, the government would honor \"living wills\" allowing consenting patients to be passively euthanized if the patient suffers from a terminal illness or is in a vegetative state.\n\nAruna Shanbaug was a nurse working at the King Edward Memorial Hospital, Parel, Mumbai. On 27 November 1973 she was strangled and sodomized by Sohanlal Walmiki, a sweeper. During the attack she was strangled with a chain, and the deprivation of oxygen has left her in a vegetative state ever since. She has been treated at KEM since the incident and is kept alive by feeding tube. On behalf of Aruna, her friend Pinki Virani, a social activist, filed a petition in the Supreme Court arguing that the \"continued existence of Aruna is in violation of her right to live in dignity\". The Supreme Court made its decision on 7 March 2011. The court rejected the plea to discontinue Aruna's life support but issued a set of broad guidelines legalising passive euthanasia in India. The Supreme Court's decision to reject the discontinuation of Aruna's life support was based on the fact that the hospital staff who treat and take care of her did not support euthanizing her. She died from pneumonia on 18 May 2015, after being in a coma for a period of 42 years.\n\nWhile rejecting Pinki Virani's plea for Aruna Shanbaug's euthanasia, the court laid out guidelines for passive euthanasia. According to these guidelines, passive euthanasia involves the withdrawing of treatment or food that would allow the patient to live. Forms of active euthanasia, including the administration of lethal compounds, legal in a number of nations and jurisdictions including Luxemburg, Belgium and the Netherlands, as well as the US states of Washington and Oregon, are still illegal in India.\n\nElsewhere in the world active euthanasia is almost always illegal. The legal status of passive euthanasia, on the other hand, including the withdrawal of nutrition or water, varies across the nations of the world. As India had no law about euthanasia, the Supreme Court's guidelines are law until and unless Parliament passes legislation. India's Minister of Law and Justice, Veerappa Moily, called for serious political debate over the issue. The following guidelines were laid down:\n\nOn 25 February 2014, while hearing a PIL filed by NGO Common Cause, a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court of India observed that the judgment in \"Aruna Shanbaug\" case was based on a wrong interpretation of the constitution bench judgment in \"Gian Kaur v. State of Punjab\". Court observed that the judgment in inconsistent in itself as though it observes that euthanasia can be allowed only by legislature yet it goes on to lay down guidelines on the same. Therefore, court has referred the issue to a constitution bench which shall be heard by a strength of at least five judges. Court observed:\"In view of the inconsistent opinions rendered in Aruna Shanbaug (supra) and also considering the important question of law involved which needs to be reflected in the light of social, legal, medical and constitutional perspective, it becomes extremely important to have a clear enunciation of law. Thus, in our cogent opinion, the question of law involved requires careful consideration by a Constitution Bench of this Court for the benefit of humanity as a whole.\"The Five-Judge Bench of the Supreme Court was tasked with deciding whether Article 21 of the Constitution includes in its ambit the right to die with dignity by means of executing a living wills/advance directives.\n\nAfter the court ruling \"The Telegraph\" consulted with Muslim, Hindu, Jain and Christian religious leaders. Though generally against legalising euthanasia, Christians and the Jains thought passive euthanasia was acceptable under some circumstances. Jains and Hindus have the traditional rituals \"Santhara\" and \"Prayopavesa\" respectively, wherein one fasts unto death. The Jain vow of \"sallekhanā\" or \"santhara\", is observed by the Jains only in special circumstances. These are mentioned in the Jain texts like \"Ratnakaranda śrāvakācāra\". Some members of India's medical establishment were skeptical about euthanasia due to the country's weak rule of law and the large gap between the rich and the poor, which might lead to the exploitation of the elderly by their families.\n\nReporters for Reuters observed in 2018 that \"The issue is not considered politically contentious in India.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13641453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13641453", "title": "Field of Bullets", "text": "Field of Bullets\n\nThe Field of Bullets hypothesis describes a model in which extinction is non-selective and occurs randomly. The metaphor of the field of bullets suggest that species are simply out in a field and \"bullets\" are hitting them at random, thus their extinction is due only to stochastic effects. The field of bullets operates without relation to the organisms' adaptability, or fitness of specific animals. Under this hypothesis all species are subjugated to the same probability of extinction no matter where they originate in their taxonomy, and irrespective of traits that typically buffer against extinction.\n"}
{"id": "1561409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561409", "title": "Franklin B. Gowen", "text": "Franklin B. Gowen\n\nFranklin Benjamin Gowen (February 9, 1836 – December 13, 1889) served as president of the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad (commonly referred to as the Reading Railroad) in the 1870s/80s. He is identified with the undercover infiltration and subsequent court prosecutions of Molly Maguires, mine workers, saloonkeepers and low-level local political figures arraigned and tried for multiple acts of violence, including murders and attempted murders of coal mine operators, foremen and workers, and peace officers.\n\nOther aspects of Gowen's presidency that merit consideration include:\n\nFranklin Benjamin Gowen was born in Mount Airy, Pennsylvania, now part of Philadelphia, the fifth child of an Irish Protestant immigrant, James Gowen, a successful grocer, and his wife, Mary (née Miller), who was of German American descent.\n\nAlthough his formal education was ended by his father at age 13, when he apprenticed the youth to a Lancaster, Pennsylvania merchant, as a young adult Gowen studied law with a local attorney in Pottsville, Pennsylvania. Following admission to the bar and joining the local Democratic party, he was elected District Attorney for Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania in 1862. He left that position in 1864 to pursue a private law practice that led him first to represent the Reading Railroad and a few years later to take on its presidency. Throughout his time with the railroad and afterward, Gowen continued practicing law and trying cases — sometimes as a special prosecutor on behalf of the state of Pennsylvania. At the time of his death, he was pursuing a case before the Interstate Commerce Commission on behalf of a private client against the Standard Oil trust. In the course of these hearings, Gowen cross-examined John D. Rockefeller. \n\nJames Gowen, described later in life as a \"hot-tempered, domineering, old Irishman\", emigrated from Ireland in 1811. He was listed as a \"wine merchant\" in property records regarding his 1834 purchase of 500 S. 5th Street in Philadelphia for $3,000. The property, which would become the Gowen household and store, consisted of a brick building with retail space on the ground floor and living quarters above it. He sold the property to Peter Woods for $4,500. in 1846. James Gowen served as director, and later as comptroller, of Philadelphia's public schools; and also as a director of the Bank of Pennsylvania. He was an ardent Jeffersonian Democratic-Republican.\n\nFranklin Gowen was the fifth of ten children born to James Gowen and Mary Miller. Mary, 16 years James's junior, came from an early-immigrated German family: by tradition, her ancestors had been closely associated with Francis Daniel Pastorius, founder of Germantown (now part of Philadelphia), the first permanent German settlement in Pennsylvania. \n\nPrior to Franklin's birth in 1836, the Gowens moved from central Philadelphia to take up their residence in Mary's family home (James had bought out the interests of other family members) in Mt. Airy, just north of Germantown.\n\nYoung Franklin attended John Beck's Boys Academy, a boarding school in Lititz, Pennsylvania, from the ages of nine to thirteen. At that point, however, his formal schooling was curtailed. Instead he was apprenticed to a Lancaster dry goods merchant/coal dealer named Thomas Baumgardner, who held an interest in an iron furnace at Shamokin, Pennsylvania. Baumgardner liked and came to trust Franklin so that at age 19, Gowen found himself dispatched as clerk (i.e., bookkeeper) for that iron business. It was during this Shamokin period that Gowen met and courted his future wife, Esther Brisben (sometimes spelled Brisbane) of Sunbury.\n\nAfter completing his apprenticeship, Gowen relocated to Pottsville, seat of Schuylkill County and the principal municipality in the southern portion of Pennsylvania's coal region. There he helped found the Pottsville Literary Society (at one of whose meetings he orated on \"The Triumphs of Genius\"), and entered into a partnership to operate a coal mine nearby. The mine failed (1859), leaving 23-year-old Gowen US$20,000 in debt. But undaunted Franklin Gowen—married now—studied law in the office of Benjamin Cumming, a Pottsville attorney. He was admitted to the bar in 1860.\n\nHe established his own practice, at the same time becoming active in the local Democratic party. Gowen served as Schuylkill County's elected District Attorney (1862–64), though in that period, according to his generally sympathetic biographer, he was \"doing too well with his private practice to have time to bother with prosecuting criminals.\" Others argue that Gowen would have diligently prosecuted numerous cases but for his suspects uniformly being furnished with alibis by fellow criminals, some of whom he brought to justice two decades later as Mollie Maguires. Whatever Gowen's personal attitude towards his official duties, the climate in Schuylkill County at the time was less than conducive to normal conduct of criminal investigations: First, at that time an elected county sheriff was the principal law enforcement officer. Second, and much to the point during Gowen's tenure, in July 1863, roughly the midpoint of his D.A. service and of the Civil War, a national conscription act was passed to bolster Union forces. The eruption of anti-draft riots in New York and other cities threatened to replicate in Schuylkill County as well. Threats and violence, including murder, occurred in several localities. Federal troops were deployed to the county to face down these fierce anti-draft feelings and disruptions, and finally conscription was effected under military force. When his own draft number came up that same year, Gowen—by then a father of three—was well-off enough to pay for a substitute, a common practice among those who could afford it.\n\nWhen Gowen left public office in 1864 in favor of his more lucrative private law practice, among his clients was the Reading Railroad. His practice prospered, and he was finally able to satisfy the lingering judgments against him from the mine failure and to buy a fashionable home in Pottsville.\n\nIn 1865, his two young sons—James and Franklin Benjamin, Jr.—died from illness, leaving his daughter Ellen an only child: she was to have no other brothers or sisters. Also that spring Franklin's beloved younger brother, George, was killed in the final days of the Civil War. Col. George Gowen, who had originally moved to Schuylkill County to assist in his brother's mining enterprise, was regarded in Pottsville as a local hero, and the G.A.R. post and local militia company were given his name.\n\nMuch legal activity in Pottsville at the time had to do with clearing disputed land titles on behalf of both individuals and companies hoping to reap profits from the increasing anthracite trade. Beyond any work of this kind, Gowen was involved in representing the Reading against personal-injury negligence claims, some of which he argued successfully before the state Supreme Court, exonerating the Reading from liability.\n\nThroughout his career, Franklin Gowen was renowned as an eloquent and persuasive speaker. A number of his orations were published and sold in pamphlet form. In an 1866 contract dispute—when Gowen was the Reading's local counsel in Pottsville—he won handily for the Reading, against its rival Pennsylvania Railroad, before the state Supreme Court, \"bolster[ing] his points with legal citations, classical quotations, humorous stories, and even a toy train.\" Other notable instances included his closing argument as prosecutor in the 1876 murder trial of John Kehoe, vilified at the time as the \"King of the Mollie Maguires,\" in which he portrayed the murders and other crimes attributed to Mollies as being an evil unparalleled in all human history, and as not locally motivated, but driven by orders from other places—Pittsburgh, New York—even other lands—England, Ireland, Scotland; and his three-hour argument in 1881 before a gathering of outraged stockholders of the bankrupt Reading Railroad, inside Philadelphia's Academy of Music, by which he turned open hostility into enthusiastic rounds of applause Kehoe received the death penalty and was hung. He was later exonerated and posthumously pardoned by the State of Pennsylvania. One twentieth-century commentator described Gowen's oratory skills thus:\n\nEven in cold print..., his speeches tend to unsettle the judgment.\n\nBy 1867, having impressed the Reading Railroad's management in Philadelphia with his legal exertions on their behalf, including the above-mentioned state Supreme Court victory over the Pennsylvania Railroad, he was invited to Philadelphia to head the corporation's legal department. Leaving Pottsville behind, Gowen sold his home to George DeBenneville Keim, a fellow attorney and close personal friend, who was to figure significantly during Gowen's future presidency of the railroad.\n\nOnce established in Philadelphia as chief counsel for the railroad, Gowen further gained the trust of the current president, Charles E. Smith, so that when Smith took a needed ocean voyage for his health in mid-1869, 33-year-old Gowen was put in charge upon Smith's recommendation to the Board of Managers. When Smith was unable to return for the next board election in January 1870, Gowen was elected president in his own right, a position he would occupy for more than a decade.\n\nThe Philadelphia and Reading Railroad was a regional carrier only, not a trunk line with its own through connections to Pittsburgh, Chicago and beyond, like the Pennsylvania, the Baltimore and Ohio (B&O) or the Erie railroads. Rather than a hauler of general freight and passengers, the Reading initially had been formed in the 1830s specifically for the purpose of hauling anthracite coal from Schuylkill County to Philadelphia and points between.\n\nIn the post-Civil War climate of Northern industrial growth and prosperity, the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad even prior to Gowen's presidency was involved in dual processes of consolidating control over sub-regional carriers that fed into it, by either acquisition or lease; and of building connections through other lines to Pittsburgh and beyond. Gowen, as Pottsville counsel and especially as chief counsel of the Reading, was not only aware of, but very close to these endeavors—and secret purchases of Schuylkill County coal lands, in violation of the railroad's corporate charter.\n\nThe core of the Reading's business, however, remained anthracite hauling, and as president Gowen sought to stabilize this core by obtaining control over both ends of the industry that the railroad connected: anthracite production and marketing.\n\nGowen's drive to stabilize production began almost as soon as he became president, following a miners' strike action in the Schuylkill coal fields in 1869–70 that resulted in fluctuations of coal traffic on the Reading. The two sides in the dispute were a loose coalition of mine operators, the Anthracite Board of Trade; and a young union, the Workingmen's Benevolent Association (WBA). Both the miners and the operators were interested in manipulating the price of anthracite at market by controlling the amount produced; but they were in dispute over how fluctuations in real market prices should reflect back upon wages in the mines. Franklin Gowen was asked by the Board of Trade to mediate. This resulted in the \"Gowen Compromise,\" a sliding-scale arrangement tying wages to the rise and fall of anthracite's market prices. This scheme was incorporated in July 1870 into the first written contract between miners and operators in the U.S. Gowen was not a disinterested party in the original dispute, however, his real concerns being to stabilize revenues for the Reading and to do so by introducing his own manipulations of anthracite prices.\n\nSo in the next mining season, when workers and operators entered into fresh disputes over the 1870 contract, he organized a loose (for the time being) combination of anthracite haulers that uniformly hiked freight rates to prohibitive levels, thereby cutting mine operators' revenues so ultimately to force the miners into accepting wages that the combination wanted.\n\nFeelings ran so high against this, that Gowen found himself having to mount a vigorous self-defense before state legislators against what was deemed unprecedented assumption of power by a corporation. Gowen, both testifying and cross-examining other witnesses, defended himself by taking the offensive. He attacked the WBA generally, and its leader, John Siney, personally, as ignorant, demagogic, wrong-headed in their misunderstandings of the laws of supply and demand; as preventing men from working, forcing the poor to pay high prices for coal, and ruining the iron industry.\n\nIt was in these same hearings that Gowen first began to formulate in public discourse his theory that the miners' union had at its core a murderous criminal association:\n\nThis organization first came into full fledged existence, in all the [coal] regions, in 1869. They then formed the Workingmen's Benevolent association, extending throughout the entire coal fields of Pennsylvania.\n\nI do not charge this Workingmen's Benevolent association with it, but I say there is an association which votes in secret, at night, that men's lives shall be taken, and that they shall be shot before their wives, murdered in cold blood, for daring to work against the order... \"I do not blame this association\", but I blame another association for doing it; and it happens that the only men who are shot are the men who dare to disobey the mandates of the Workingmen's Benevolent association.\n\nThis idea, already formed in his mind well before any pointed investigation of such a spectral secret society, Gowen was to expand and propound later in the decade into the image of an international conspiracy as the ultimate target behind the prosecution of coal-region Mollie Maguires.\n\nUnlike later-formed anthracite-hauling railroads tied to other portions of the coal region, such as the Lehigh Valley and the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western, whose corporate charters allowed them to also be involved in mining operations, the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad's charter prohibited it.\n\nAt this time in the U.S., the granting, regulation, and rescission of corporate charters were managed by the legislative rather than executive branch in most states. So adding to the allowed pursuits of the Reading by amending its charter was not a matter of simply a board decision and filing of papers. This legal obstacle to increasing the Reading's control over coal production Gowen sneaked around in 1871 by eking out, through political allies, the Pennsylvania legislature's chartering a new corporation, the Laurel Run Improvement Company, whose vaguely set-out purpose was to be involved in coal and iron, and whose shares could be purchased by \"any railroad or mining company\". This new company was quickly bought outright by the Reading as a subsidiary and renamed the Philadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron Company (the Coal & Iron Co). In the meantime, Gowen obtained passage through the legislature of another bill permitting the Reading Railroad to borrow an unlimited amount of money. Gowen quickly arranged for a US$25 million bond issue and sent agents to buy up Schuylkill County coal land for the Coal & Iron Co.\n\nDuring the period from 1871–74, Gowen's Philadelphia and Reading Railroad continued to borrow at the rate of US$16 million per year to buy up and develop Schuylkill County coal lands, including numerous existing mining operations. In a number of cases, loans were extended to foundering mine operators to keep them afloat, and Reading money was also put up to build iron furnaces along its rail lines.\n\nIn collaboration with his close friend, George deBenneville Keim—who had bought Gowen's Pottsville home in 1864, and was subsequently appointed first president of the Coal & Iron Co.—Gowen's perhaps most crucial business bet was made upon these lands: development of the Pottsville Twin Shaft Colliery. This enterprise was based on a theory of mining the Schuylkill Basin coal field promoted by Eli Bowen in his 1862 book, \"Coal, and the Coal Trade\", where he called for \"large capital\" to sink two \"enormously deep and permanent shafts\" to a depth of two thousand feet \"before a single pound of coal is allowed to be sent to market.\" \"[W]ith night and day shifts,\" Bowen estimated, the shafts \"could be sunk down within two or three years.\" Shafts once sunk, the \"mining would be carried on night and day, with three eight-hour shifts.\" \"[A]fterwards you can work it like a machine.\" The object of these deep diggings was to reach the famous Mammoth Vein, an undulating seam of high-quality anthracite twenty-five feet thick, projected as providing a virtually inexhaustible supply. This indeed was the shared vision and plan of Gowen and Keim from the outset of the Coal & Iron Co.\n\nThree years into the project, however, the Mammoth Vein was estimated as still deeper than digging had reached. Even after the colliery became operative in 1875, its production never reached even 1/10 of its projected output 750,000 tons per year. In total, the mine operated only ten years, with a \"cumulative\" output of 275,871 tons.\n\nThe aggressively expansive operations of the Coal & Iron Co., including the Twin Shaft project, required vast outlays of money, and the coal and iron operations were not returning a profit on those outlays. Rather, the source of Coal & Iron Co. funding was an increasing load of debt owed by the parent railroad: increased by US$65 million during the first five years of Gowen's presidency—almost twice the railroad's valuation when he took the helm in 1869. Annual interest on this debt, about US$4 million, was a little less than the average profit of the railroad during those years. The public face of the Reading's finances—prospectuses and annual reports—obscured these realities.\n\nIn 1874, Franklin B. Gowen came under attack again, this time charged before stockholders of accounting sleight of hand—of cloaking continuous losses in the Coal & Iron Co. by infusing into that subsidiary as \"capital investment\" funds borrowed by the parent railroad, only to mysteriously shuffle large portions of that \"investment\" back to the parent to cover high dividends paid to railroad shareholders. In light of those consistent high dividends, though, these accusations were sloughed off, and there was no shareholder revolt to derail him.\n\nThe specific destination of coal bound to Philadelphia was that city's Port Richmond area along the Delaware River. In this complex of rail yards and wharves, coal was unloaded for local marketing or for transshipment by boat to other markets such as New York and Boston. In the late 1840s and early 1850s, one of Gowen's predecessors as president of the Philadelphia & Reading, John Tucker, undertook to bolster the railroad's presence and control in Port Richmond with the aim of achieving unquestioned leadership of the coal trade on the Delaware. The Reading's Port Richmond facilities in 1852 were estimated to comprise , including 20 wharves that would allow more than 100 vessels to be loaded simultaneously, and space for storage in slack times of a quarter million tons of coal.\n\nFranklin Gowen endeavored to improve upon the benefits to the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad of this shipping terminus / transshipping hub. In 1871–72, he undertook to undermine business of the competing independent coal dealers in the area—known as \"factors\"—by setting up a new sales organization under the auspices of the Coal & Iron Co. Gowen's aim was not only to market the Reading organization's coal, but that of other mine operators whose output the railroad hauled, as well.\n\nDepicting the factors, who sold typically at commissions of 20 to 25 cents a ton, as sitting \"at the water's edge like leeches, sucking the life-blood of a healthy trade,\" he offered to operators who previously marketed through the factors to sell their coal at only 10 cents per ton. A number of operators found the proposal immediately agreeable. But Gowen's next move was not as well received: he offered to consolidate under the Coal & Iron Co. the sales businesses of fifteen factors who also owned their own mining operations. This proposal rebuffed, Gowen moved to shut down the businesses of independent factors (who did not have their own mines) by denying them continued wharf room at Port Richmond.\n\nThe public controversies stirred up by all these actions lasted into 1873. Rising above it all, in January of that year Gowen presided over formation of the \"coal pool\" or \"anthracite combination\"—including other big coal executives Asa Packer, Thomas Dickson, George Hoyt, and Samuel Sloan—which established \"the first industry-wide price-fixing agreement in America.\" It both set the sales price for coal and allotted the tonnage each member railroad was allowed to haul to market for the coming year.\n\nThis anthracite combination fared well, even with the onset of a national depression following the Panic of 1873. In anticipation of lagging demand for coal in 1874, a long, formal agreement was put in place to enforce regulation of the trade more effectively. Some coal operators remained outside the coal pool, and for these the Reading Railroad devised a new annoyance: continuing to load coal cars with Coal & Iron Co. anthracite even beyond the Reading's allotted tonnage, then lining these loaded cars on side tracks, thus limiting the availability of empty cars for hauling the other mine operators' output. The result was haphazard disruption of production and sales for these operators.\n\nOnce again, in 1875, Franklin Gowen was called before an investigative committee, for issues raised by his role and actions in another miners' strike (the \"Long Strike\"—see below), and more substantially for his high-handed maneuverings in the coal trade. Even the legality of the 1871 charter of the Laurel Run Improvement Company and the Reading Railroad's transformation of that shell into the powerful Coal & Iron Co. were assailed. The investigating legislators' final report was fully in Gowen's favor. Also as in other instances, Gowen's orations were broadcast in pamphlet form and in newspaper advertisements.\n\nThe \"Gowen Compromise\" of 1870 did not end strife over wages and other conditions in the coal region. Neither did the imposition of wages through the anthracite combination's exerting control over coal prices at market. Neither, to be certain, were mining disputes the beginning or end of labor upheavals in America in the 1870s.\n\nAs noted above, in the 1871 legislative investigation of coal field agitations and the Reading, Gowen portrayed the WBA as having at its core a murderous, secret association. In his 1875 testimony before another investigative committee, he characterized this same core of the union as \"Communists.\"\n\nIn September 1873, the failure of Jay Cooke & Co. precipitated first the Panic of 1873 and in its wake the worst U.S. financial depression up to that time, which resonated with the concurrent transatlantic Long Depression. Initially, northeastern U.S. anthracite markets were not badly affected, largely due to controls put in place by Gowen's coal pool. In 1874, in addition to shoring up this coal pool's internal checks to make sure all members played by the rules, Gowen also organized Schuylkill County's independent coal operators into the Schuylkill Coal Exchange. By autumn 1874 it was common knowledge that these operators (including the Coal & Iron Co.) were intent upon precipitating a ruinous miners' strike by which to destroy the WBA (by this time renamed the Miners and Laborers Benevolent Association, or M&LBA). Such a strike was indeed brought about by severe slashes in wages offered to miners (20% cut) and mine laborers (10% cut). Known as the \"Long Strike\", the work stoppage lasted through June 1875, ending in the collapse of the union.\n\nIn October 1873, Gowen met in Philadelphia with Allan Pinkerton. Pinkerton's published account of the meeting depicts Gowen laying out in some detail the existence, background and nature of a criminal secret society called Mollie Maguires, transplanted from Ireland to the coal region of Pennsylvania.\n\nPinkerton's detective agency was already an established presence in the coal fields, having been active supervising the Coal and Iron Police, a private police force authorized by the state of Pennsylvania in 1865, paid for by railroad, mining and iron interests. Pinkerton was glad to take on additional work for the Reading Railroad.\nOne of his detectives, James McParland, infiltrated what he testified was the Mollies' innermost circle and provided, as a surprise witness, what proved to be damning evidence in several murder trials.\n\nA series of murders July and September 1875, following the breakdown of the WBA and its Long Strike, led to several arrests over the next year of men identified as Mollie Maguires. Arrests, trials, convictions and hangings of Mollie Maguires occurred in the adjoining counties of Schuylkill and Carbon, in 1876-78. Catholics were excluded from juries. Gowen himself acted as special prosecutor in more than one trial in Schuylkill, most notably in 1876 at that of John \"Black Jack\" Kehoe, whom he characterized in his summation as \"chief conspirator, murderer, and villain\" and \"with having made money by his traffic in the souls of his fellow-men\". In this same summation he speculated that had detective McParland had one more year to complete his undercover investigation, the jury \"would have had the pleasure ... of hanging some men who are not citizens of Schuylkill county,\" such as \"the head of this order at Pittsburg, and ... its head in New York\"; and suggested further that the ultimate source and directive force behind the secret order would have been found in England, Ireland and Scotland.\n\nKehoe was initially tried and convicted of conspiracy, and subsequently of a murder that had occurred during Gowen's term as District Attorney—despite another man's signed admission of guilt for the murder. Kehoe was posthumously pardoned by Pennsylvania Governor Milton Shapp in 1979.\n\nControversial at the time, circumstances and events surrounding both the Long Strike and the Mollie Maguire prosecutions and hangings have grown even more so with the passage of time. Gowen's multi-faceted role in particular—from his 1871 and 1875 testimonies positing a Mollie-like criminal enterprise at the heart of the WBA, which he also rhetorically linked to Communism; to the coincidental timing of the hopeless Long Strike precipitated by the Schuylkill Coal Exchange that Gowen had organized, on one hand, and his bankrolling the undercover anti-Mollie machinations, on the other; plus partially substantiated claims that McParland or other Pinkertons essentially on the Reading Railroad payroll instigated both Mollie-like activities and anti-Mollie vigilantism—has eluded historical consensus.\n\nOn December 10, 1875, 20 year old pregnant Ellen O'Donnell McAllister was awakened by a strange noise at 3 a.m. She woke up her husband telling him of the noise. At this time, around 20 masked men kicked in the door and started firing in the house. As Ellen walked down the steps, she was shot at point blank range. She and her unborn baby were murdered, along with her brother, Charles O'Donell. The matriarch of the house, Margaret O'Donnell, was pistol whipped by the assailants and they roughed up the boarders Mrs. O'Donnell kept. Ellen's husband, Charles McAllister, managed to escape, as did James O'Donnell, another O'Donnell sibling, and James McAllister, brother of Ellen's husband, Charles. It was said the attack occurred because the O'Donnell family were suspected members of the Molly Maguires. Ellen's body and that of her brother were taken to Tamaqua by train. Upon arrival, the corpses were packed in ice and stored overnight in the train station to await burial at old St. Jerome's Cemetery. Ellen's sister, Mary Ann, was married to the John \"Black Jack\" Kehoe, who history dubbed \"The King of the Molly Maguires\".\n\nIn recent years, documents and communications have emerged between Franklin Gowen, Allan Pinkerton, and the captain of the Coal and Iron Police, Captain Linden, which strongly suggest that this tragic event was not only premeditated but executed with precision. Furthermore, documents show that funding for the massacre was paid for by coal and railroad money and some sources say that billionaire Asa Packer may have fronted a good portion of the financial backing.\n\nDuring Franklin Gowen's presidency, the Reading Railroad was one of the richest corporations in the world—running not only trains, but an empire of coal mines, of canals and oceangoing vessels; and even trying (unsuccessfully) a subsidiary rail venture in Brazil. Though its corporate management resided in Philadelphia, the motive power propelling the railroad emanated from Reading, roughly northwest of the larger city, where a engineering/production shop complex sat adjacent to the downtown. Disputes between the Reading and laborers embroiled not only miners in the Coal & Iron division, but engineers and other workers in the Railroad division as well. Both the Reading Railroad and its namesake city were fertile grounds for early unionization. In particular, the city of Reading was throughout the 1870s home to a very motivated local of the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers (the BLE). Gowen's crushing of the WBA, coupled with his widely hailed unraveling of the Mollie Maguires, heartened railroad capitalists nationwide. His triumphs refreshed their confidence that unionism could be squashed altogether. This impression of Gowen's prowess against unions was reinforced by his moves to quell a BLE strike in Reading in April 1877. Having learned from spies of a strike about to happen, Gowen issued an ultimatum: leave the union, or be fired. Nearly 80 per cent of the railroad's engineers walked off the job. Bosses and other non-union employees were pressed into service to run the trains until \"temporary\" replacements (i.e., strikebreakers) could be hired on. The \"New York Times\" hailed the destruction of the \"dictatorial\" BLE and encouraged \"employers generally\" to imitate Gowen's anti-union stance.\n\nThroughout the spring of 1877, heads of the four major U.S. trunk lines — the B&O, the New York Central, the Erie and the Pennsylvania — held meetings to determine how, by working together, they could all \"earn more and … spend less\". The initial fruits of these meetings was a freight pooling arrangement along lines similar to Gowen's anthracite combination, to increase revenues by reducing competition. They also determined that, after Gowen's defeating the BLE, a reduction in rail workers' wages was timely. The Pennsylvania was the first of the four to act, announcing an across-the-board wage cut of 10 per cent, effective June 1, 1877. Cuts on other roads — not just the four trunk lines — followed, affecting rail workers nationwide. The B&O's 10 per cent cut precipitated, in July 1877, a work stoppage in Martinsburg, West Virginia, which multiplied with telegraphic speed into the Great Railroad Strike of 1877. The Great Strike flashed from coast to coast; workers on railroad after railroad, in city after city, struck as well, forcing a halt to all rail activity in or through numerous locales, and in some places triggering general non-railroad work stoppages. Interstate commerce was paralyzed for weeks. As the Strike spread, destructive and deadly violence erupted in some major cities — Baltimore; Pittsburgh, Reading and Scranton, Pennsylvania; Buffalo, Chicago, and San Francisco. Almost immediately upon his return from Europe, on the very day the Great Strike broke out, Gowen instituted massive layoffs of brakemen across the railroad, in effect both sanctioning and reinforcing the other railroads' moves while he was gone. In Reading, back in April and May, striking BLE engineers had been quickly displaced by strikebreakers and then blacklisted—but the strikebreakers, as well as other workers, were not paid by the cash-strapped Reading Railroad from May through mid-July. While the Great Strike gathered momentum, Gowen found the money to pay back wages in Reading. Local outrage at Gowen and the Reading was intensified as newly laid-off brakemen swelled the ranks of unemployed railroad men and strikebreakers saw their wages as a transparent effort to buy loyalty. \n\nUltimately, within a month of the first Mollie Maguire hangings (June 20, 1877), the ongoing BLE strike in Reading, which Gowen believed he had broken just as he had the WBA strike in 1875, gained fresh momentum from the unfolding Great Strike; tensions in the city escalated until, on July 23, 10 citizens were killed by the Pennsylvania state militia in the Reading Railroad Massacre. Federal troops were dispatched to Reading to restore order. Following the Massacre, in October 1877 Gowen personally prosecuted men whom Pinkerton spies had pinpointed as the local BLE ringleaders, but they were acquitted. \nThree months later, in January 1878, Reading was the site of the first national convention of the Knights of Labor, which grew into one of the important U.S. labor organizations of the nineteenth century. As with many early labor organizations, its membership rolls and meetings were secret, to help avoid infiltration and blacklisting. The Knights creed and organization crossed occupational lines, attempting to become a sort of \"union of unions.\" As such, after the collapse of the WBA/M&LBA, miners in the anthracite region formed locals of the Knights of Labor. In one incident, when Coal & Iron Co. workers struck for back pay, Gowen once again raised the issue of terrorism. Seeking to avert the spread of the strike, he sent an open letter to the \"Miner's Journal\" newspaper in Pottsville exposing the names of the officers and membership of the Knights assemblies. He also implied that there was a \"gang\" within the union, similar to the Mollies, whose task was to sabotage coal company property. The Knights fought back by challenging the Schuylkill County authorities to arrest the alleged terrorists, but as Gowen's charges were unsubstantiated, the matter went no further.\n\nThe United States was roiled repeatedly throughout the nineteenth century by financial panics \nand resultant economic recessions, each with transatlantic dimensions. The Panic of 1837 was pivotal for the Reading Railroad. After the road's optimistic startup on a foundation of American capital in 1834, because it was \"constructed without financial stint... the income from the company's operations had to be maintained at an unusually high level just to stay in the black.\" During the American economic \ncontraction following the 1837 panic, management turned in desperation to London for fresh capital and credit. The resulting influx of badly needed cash made the Reading the first American railroad to come under direct English influence as to its management. From well prior to Gowen's presidency, and continuing through it until the Reading Railroad came fully under J.P. Morgan's sway, these London interests exerted great influence.\n\nThe Reading better weathered the panics of 1847 and 1857, but under Franklin Gowen's management and expansionist programs, the Panic of 1873 and its follow-on depression were once again of instrumental importance. The railroad fell deeper and deeper into debt until, finally, in May 1880, the well was dry: the Reading had gone bankrupt.\n\nDespite the harsh realities of the depression that ran from late 1873 into 1879, it was significant misjudgments on Gowen's part that led to the Reading Railroad's collapse in 1880.\nHis determination to dominate, through the Reading Railroad, the overall supply/demand dynamic of anthracite was hemmed in by insurmountable bounds from the outset.\n\nThe mining theory behind the ultimately wasteful development of the Pottsville Twin Shaft operation was not well grounded in the geologic science even of that time. But that theory alone did not make up Gowen's rationale for the massive expenditures of the Coal & Iron Co. He believed that the Schuylkill Valley—which from colonial times until the Civil War had been the center of American iron-making—would, because of the importance of anthracite iron, continue to hold that preeminent position indefinitely. He stated this belief forthrightly in the Reading Railroad annual report for 1870; but already the use of lower-cost coke made from more widely available bituminous coal, together with expanding markets in the Midwest and West, was driving the center of the iron industry (and soon, steelmaking) to Pittsburgh. Already the importance of anthracite as an indispensable industrial fuel was slipping.\n\nEven Gowen's anthracite combination, successful at maintaining profitable market prices even as depression set in, was not able to continue long in unity. Internecine squabbles and continued deteriorating business conditions all around undermined the effectiveness of this pooling effort, and coal prices and revenues fluctuated year by year. The combination unraveled in August 1876, with Gowen angrily denouncing erstwhile coal pool member Asa Packer by name. Meanwhile, earlier in the year the Coal & Iron Company's retail marketing operation at Port Richmond was transferred to an independent concern. As the Philadelphia coal market continued to decline, Schuylkill County mine operators sent Thomas Baumgardner, who had given Franklin Gowen his first introduction to the coal and iron businesses during his apprenticeship, as part of a committee to get a read on Gowen's intentions. Still out of sorts over the larger anthracite combination's falling apart, Gowen would not commit to any new price-fixing arrangement.\n\nFinally, Gowen did not well discern the special nature of the Reading, as compared to other railroads of the time, in terms of its underlying capitalization. As noted above, the road was \"constructed without financial stint\"; specifically, it was laid out at a cost per mile that far exceeded that of other lines in the coal region, or even of such trunk lines as the B&O and Erie. Carrying costs for this capitalization was the issue that first drove the Reading into the arms of English lenders and investors. Somewhat a relief on both sides of the Atlantic, then, was the period 1861–1867, when the railroad managed to cut its funded debt roughly in half—from $11,819,400 to $5,902,300.\n\nThis was the fiscally sound, but still burdened, Reading Railroad whose presidency Gowen assumed in 1869. Instead of gleaning insight from the railroad's successful struggle to bring its overhead under control, he turned the enterprise in the following decade into a mysteriously accounted borrowing machine. In 1874, a former Gowen friend turned enemy by Gowen's organization of the anthracite industry, accused Gowen in print of dishonest and misleading financial representations in the Reading's annual report and its prospectuses. Though Gowen was able to easily slough off such accusation at that time, it was renewed more powerfully in 1876 by Charles E. Smith—Gowen's direct predecessor as president, who had recommended the young man for the position in his absence. Even following Gowen's election to the post in his own right, Smith had remained on the corporation's Board of Managers. After hearing from Gowen of a US$7 million floating debt that had never been discussed in any board meetings, Smith inspected the unpublished books of the subsidiary Coal & Iron Co., which issued no annual report of its own. He found that the parent corporation's floating debt was being transferred to the subsidiary before the parent's fiscal year end in November, to avoid appearing in year-end statements; only to be shifted back to the parent prior to the subsidiary's own fiscal year end in December, thus effectively masking the joint enterprise's precarious condition overall. Smith raised the issue to the Reading's principal source of funds, the McCalmont Brothers investment banking firm in London, seeking Gowen's ouster, but was rebuffed. Though Gowen remained as president, and Smith resigned from the board, the incident forced Gowen's 1876 annual report to approximate frankness. It indicated the corporation's funded debt as US$65 million, resulting in US$5.5 million annually in carrying charges, compared to just over US$3 million in earnings for the railroad and a US$600,000 loss for the Coal & Iron Co.\n\nFrom that time, through fresh sanguine predictions for improvements in the business climate and the Reading's overall performance, which allowed him to borrow more funds on a less grand scale and to get the McCalmonts to defer interest payments due; and maneuverings such as periodically paying workers in scrip—essentially promissory notes—instead of cash, Franklin Gowen continued to run the Reading. In early 1880, employees were paid in cash for the first time in sixteen months. Then, on Friday, May 22, 1880, two Coal & Iron Co. checks, intended to transfer cash to the railroad, bounced. Gowen offered railroad promissory notes to make the checks good, but the bank turned him down. McCalmont Brothers ignored Gowen's plea by cable for a fresh loan of a half million dollars. That same day the Reading announced suspension of payments on debt.\n\nReading Railroad stock dropped from 23 to 12½ in one hour of trading. An anonymous statement from the corporate offices predicted resumption of payments in thirty days, without bankruptcy. Ex-president Smith, however, predicted that the company had \"no future but bankruptcy, and it must get rid of Mr. Gowen, or bankruptcy won't help it. Should he be made receiver, it will be the same old story.\"\n\nThe following Monday, a formal declaration of bankruptcy was filed at the U.S. Circuit Court in Pittsburgh. Franklin Gowen was appointed as one of three receivers; the others were Philadelphia bankers with no personal ties to the corporation.\n\nThough Gowen's powers as president were eclipsed by the appointment of receivers, his position as the one receiver who had close knowledge of the overall operations of the combined rail and coal businesses placed him in the middle of revitalization efforts. However, his hitherto support from the McCalmont Brothers banking concern was about to unravel through a series of discords into downright enmity. The McCalmonts owned at the time two-thirds of the Reading's stock and half of its bonds, and they formed their own committee to look after the interests of (especially British) bondholders. Initially this committee, chaired by a former Lord Chancellor, approved with reservations Gowen's inclusion as a receiver on the bases that \"[t]he proprietors of the bonds and stocks of the company in America have evinced their satisfaction with the choice of receivers,\" and that his \"action... as receiver will be controlled by his colleagues and by the court.\"\n\nBefore any concrete planning to regain solvency could be undertaken, an accurate accounting of the railroad's condition was required. The receivers' report, issued in June 1880, indicated total liabilities of US$145,494,005. Annual carrying charges were just over US$7.5 million, while net revenues were just under US$5.5 million. Already, this early into the process, the English bondholders' committee contended that expansions in the Reading's floating debt incurred during the six months prior to the bankruptcy were not covered by value in the corporation's assets.\n\nThree plans of reorganization were put forth before the end of 1880. The first came from the McCalmont faction; the second from a former vice president of the Reading; and the third from Franklin Gowen. The McCalmont plan would have given preferred protection to senior mortgage bond holders and also would have put a levy upon stockholders, US$15 per share, towards substantially paying down floating debt. The second plan did away with the levy—heavily objected to by American shareholders—but was contingent for success upon the Reading's preferred stock being worth roughly four times its current trading value. The third plan was put forth by Franklin Gowen in the context of known contemplation by the English bondholders of exercising their right of foreclosure against the Reading. Gowen's plan called for receivership to last for five years, for which time he projected increasingly improved business performance, reduction of fixed expenses to a manageable level, and liquidation of floating debt by the selling off of assets and/or conversion into preferred stock. This plan, as put forth to the McCalmonts, was accompanied by Gowen's offer to step aside as receiver. The English faction agreed to a plan very close to Gowen's, but with the stipulation that Gowen should indeed be replaced as receiver by someone not involved in the corporation's management prior to the bankruptcy. Gowen backpedaled vigorously. \n\nHe still held the positions of receiver and president, and had the confidence generally of the corporate board and of many American investors. In late 1880 Gowen traveled to England to attempt repairing relations there, and at the same time sought to postpone the annual shareholder meeting, with its election of president and board, from its regular January schedule. Through cross litigation by the Reading board and the McCalmonts the postponement was realized, and then Gowen began a campaign to get American shareholders to not attend the meeting. His argument to them was that the Reading was in danger of undermining influences from rival railroads but his hope was that the postponement would change the voting rules, and the absence of his allied shareholders would prevent a qualified quorum from being present. When the meeting was finally held in March 1881, however, and the McCalmont-dominated voting resulted in election of a different president and board from Gowen and his associates, Gowen resorted to new litigation. State and federal courts ruled against him, though, and he grudgingly gave access to the corporate offices to his temporary successor, Frank S. Bond — although in surrendering the physical office, Gowen retained possession of the company records. It was at this point that Gowen hired the Philadelphia Academy of Music for the purpose of addressing stockholders, as well as Philadelphia's political and business leaders. His three-hour oration not only excoriated the McCalmont Brothers' \"cowardly meanness\", but accused them and their American agents, Kidder, Peabody, of working in league with the Pennsylvania Railroad in order to attempt moving the Reading into the sphere of control of that much larger corporation. This oration was interrupted frequently by applause, but did not affect Gowen's removal from the presidency.\n\nNo longer president, Gowen was still a receiver, and from that position he continued to lobby for his reorganization plan to stockholders, to the McCalmonts, and even to the new president. President Bond, however, was lobbying for his own new plan of reorganization, and things remained at somewhat of a standstill in that regard. On another front, however, Gowen was maneuvering to regain the presidency, and toward that end he forged a pivotal alliance with William Vanderbilt, president of the New York Central and other railroads. Vanderbilt bought up a large block of Reading Railroad stock, sufficient to reelect Gowen as president in January 1882. The same annual meeting saw resolutions passed approving Gowen's reorganization plan and requiring the incoming board of managers to put that plan into effect.\n\nIn response to this turn of events, McCalmont Brothers liquidated its holdings in the Reading and withdrew from ongoing litigation. The forty-year predominance of English capital in the finances and affairs of the Reading Railroad was thus ended; but in exchange the company's future became a fresh, inviting target for opportunistic American capital. In 1881 and 1882 the Coal & Iron Co. continued to register losses, but the railroad actually saw upturns in its passenger, coal and merchandise freight business lines. Austerity measures implemented early in the bankruptcy at the railroad's car production and repair shops in Reading now found these operations taxed to their limits. Rather than rehabilitate these units, though, Gowen put money into building diverse new stations as well as a million-bushel grain elevator at Port Richmond. He also moved to expand the Reading Railroad's scope by having it lease the Central Railroad of New Jersey (the Jersey Central). Vanderbilt supported the move as it would increase the value of his own railroad's interconnection at New York Harbor. Ominously, the Jersey Central was at the time in receivership, and the deal included assumption by Gowen's Reading of the Jersey Central's US$2 million of floating debt and guaranteeing a 6% dividend on all of the Central's stock then outstanding.\n\nNext, Gowen and Vanderbilt hit upon a plan to turn the Reading into a trunk line by building new extensions: two from Williamsport: one to Buffalo and one to northwestern Pennsylvania's soft coal region in Clearfield County; a third, in collaboration with the B&O, that would form a direct line from Washington, DC through Philadelphia to New York; and most ambitiously a fourth — the so-called South Penn line — that would extend the Reading's western reach from Harrisburg to Pittsburgh. They formed a syndicate including steelmakers Andrew Carnegie, Henry Oliver, Henry Clay Frick, Pennsylvania career politician J. Donald Cameron, and—paradoxically, given Gowen's longstanding litigious hostility to Standard Oil — John D. and William Rockefeller. \nOperating in the atmosphere of improved business conditions generally, the Reading Railroad emerged from receivership in February 1883.\n\nThat year witnessed continued improvement in the Reading's rail businesses, and in his annual report at the end of the year, Gowen made glowing predictions of prosperity for the road overall, including its new expansionist endeavors. \"The company has now surmounted the difficulties of the last four eventful years\", Gowen proclaimed; but that was not an accurate assessment of all the facts. Nevertheless, President Gowen seized the moment of high praise from American shareholders for \"rescuing our property from bankruptcy against the malignant and determined efforts of its enemies and conspirators to foreclose and wreck it\", to remove himself from the official duties and pressures of president. At the January 1884 annual meeting he resigned in favor of his recommended successor, George deBenneville Keim, his close friend and associate since their days as young attorneys in Pottsville. Gowen's resignation was over the objections of his ally and friend, William Vanderbilt; but the former assured the recent investor in the Reading that the nature of his relationship with Keim would assure his close involvement in all matters related to running the company.\n\nThe same meeting that elected Keim authorized a new US$12 million loan issue to pay the recently increased floating debt and the balance due on the Jersey Central deal. It considered a proposal from Gowen of paying out a 21% dividend on preferred stock, in case the loan issue should be successfully placed. However, in spite of President Gowen's glowing predictions at the end of calendar year 1883, \"[s]carcely any of the benefits of [his] plan of reorganization had been secured; fixed charges had not been reduced, because it had been impossible to get creditors to take new securities in exchange for the old, and equally impossible to sell any considerable amount of the new securities for cash. \n\nWhile old charges had remained unabated, new charges had been added ... and the very gain in earnings which might have been construed as favorable was due to increased mileage [i.e., expansion of the Reading system], and was not proportional to the growth of the system.\" An additional immediate legacy of the second Gowen expansionist presidency was the payment in company scrip for labor and supplies in May 1884 and an accompanying new fall in the value of Reading Railroad securities. On June 2, 1884, although Gowen was no longer president of the Reading, the company again passed as a direct result of his adventuristic management into bankruptcy and the hands of receivers, including this time not Gowen but his hand-picked successor as president, George deB. Keim.\n\nBefore Keim's election as president, Franklin Gowen had assured his friend, William Vanderbilt, that \"on account of the relations existing between Mr. Keim and myself ... I can control the Reading...\" However the new management, under Keim, in fact was not keen to continue Gowen's affiliation with the company at all. Following a confrontation between the two old friends, in which Gowen was told (by his own later recounting) \"you were not a very successful president of this company, and now other people have got hold of it; we are responsible and you are not\"; Gowen's hyperbolic response eventually obtained him a position as counsel, allowing him to offer advice but make no decisions.\n\nThroughout 1884 and into 1885, Gowen jockeyed and jostled to make his way back into active management of the Reading, but with no real headway. A hidden roadblock to all his efforts was that management was attempting to obtain fresh financing through the Philadelphia firm of Drexel and Company. It was clear that these conservative financiers—including a not yet well known partner, J.P. Morgan—would have inevitably turned away from any such dealing if Franklin Gowen were managerially involved in the Reading. These matters were further complicated by tightening business conditions in those two years. Vanderbilt's alliance with Gowen had begun as part of a campaign by his New York Central against the Pennsylvania Railroad, and both of these trunk lines were feeling the pinch of hard times. Morgan felt the pinch as well in the form of poor performance from his New York Central share holdings.\n\nMorgan then began a campaign of his own to bring peace—that is, an amicable reduction of profit-destroying competition—between the two trunk lines. In the working out of this peace, Gowen's erstwhile syndicate for constructing the South Penn line that would turn the Reading into a viably competitive trunk line was undermined entirely, leaving little prospect of completing that project. Ultimately, significant portions of the South Penn's right of way and partly completed gradings lay fallow until they were eventually utilized in the 1930s for construction of the Pennsylvania Turnpike.\n\nGowen planned and undertook in November 1885 a new campaign to regain control of the Reading. He published a plan that included having himself reappointed as a receiver, raising new millions of dollars, holding on to the Jersey Central (whose lease by the Reading was in jeopardy through litigation), and even to complete the elusive attainment of trunk line status for the railroad. In December, once again he rented the Philadelphia Academy of Music, which filled to standing room capacity to hear his three-hour oration denouncing present management and its willfully ignoring his advice on how to save the company, as well as the present receivers' reorganization plan. \n\nIn place of these, Gowen proposed his own reorganization plan based, one more time, upon optimistic earnings estimates and his ability to attract new money into the company. Also, one more time, his oration carried the audience into great enthusiasm. Such was the momentum generated by Gowen's overall campaign that Keim conceded the January 1886 presidential election in advance; Gowen and his Board of Managers slate were elected unanimously and adopted a resolution calling for a change in the receivership. Notwithstanding the optimistic reorganization plan Gowen rode back into the presidency, shareholder enthusiasm and a board resolution were insufficient to remove the Reading from its deeply troubled circumstance. Before Gowen was able to mobilize any of the money required to take action, Morgan reentered the arena, this time heading a syndicate that offered to return peace and prosperity to the company through a different means. An anonymous member of Morgan's syndicate described a central element of the proposed peace:In order to do this it has been found necessary to get rid of Mr. Gowen. We have all combined to get him out of railroad management, just as all the powers of Europe combined to crush Napoleon, and there will be no peace until Mr. Gowen is in St. Helena. He is an able and brilliant man and in some respects a veritable Napoleon, but he is no railroad manager... The trouble with Mr. Gowen is that he wants to be fighting all the time. When he was after the Molly Maguires he was in his element, but as a railroad manager he is a failure.\n\nThis syndicate proposed its reorganization plan to the sitting receivers, who decided to cooperate towards putting it into effect. Gowen immediately attempted to put together his own syndicate, but this failed to bear sufficient fruit. Through a series of maneuverings with associates and erstwhile Gowen friends and allies, as well as minor changes to its original proposal, Morgan's group was able to win Gowen over — even to the provision requiring that he step down, once and for all, as president of the Reading Railroad. His resignation was effective September 17, 1886. \n\nGowen never completely gave up the practice of law. A notable instance was during the run up to the Reading's May 1880 bankruptcy: in March Gowen was in Harrisburg prosecuting bribery cases on behalf of the state of Pennsylvania, growing out of the state's Railroad Riots Act investigations, and from Gowen's perspective an extension of his ongoing legal wranglings against the allied activities of the Pennsylvania Railroad and Standard Oil. Gowen was president of the Reading Railroad and also had a history of involvement in civic matters. He had been a Democratic representative to the state constitutional convention in 1873 and had been a board of governors member of the Philadelphia Reform Club. As well, also in the run up to the railroad's 1880 bankruptcy, he had lent his name in support of one side of a fight for control of the state Democratic convention. At another point during his presidency his name was rumored as a possible Democratic candidate for Pennsylvania governor. In his forced retirement from the active affairs of the Reading, Gowen spent time composing limericks and also translating German poetry. Involvement with literature was not new to him — recall his founding role in the Pottsville Literary Society decades before; and he was well versed enough in the stage to include lengthy descriptions of two plays in his speech at one of the Molly Maguire trials.\n\nDespite the enforced peace introduced by J.P. Morgan among formerly cutthroat competing railroads, Gowen found opportunity to wage legal war against his old enemies, the Standard Oil and Pennsylvania Railroad, before the then new Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). Early in 1889, he found himself in the odd position of representing an old friend, Eckley B. Coxe, in a suit before the ICC against, essentially, the same coal monopoly that Gowen himself had forged more than a decade before. Shortly before his death, many of Gowen's friends and associates noticed a change in his overall mood. They remarked upon his more somber demeanor and noted that for a trip home to Philadelphia, he had boarded the wrong train. Gowen wrote to his insurance agent on December 9, 1889, to ask if he could cash in his $90,000 life insurance policy. Three days later, after he had arrived in Washington, D.C., to argue a case before the Interstate Commerce Commission, Gowen purchased a revolver at a hardware store on Pennsylvania Avenue. \n\nFranklin B. Gowen died of a gunshot wound to the head on December 13, 1889, at Wormley's Hotel in Washington, DC. There still remains some controversy as to whether his death was suicide or homicide. Some have speculated that he was murdered by Molly Maguires in retaliation. However, the Gowen family hired Captain Robert Linden of the Pinkerton Agency to investigate. Linden had been the senior Pinkerton involved in the Reading Co. and thus considered qualified to determine if there were any connection of that sort. Linden ruled out a Molly connection very quickly. The owner of Wolford's Hardware Store on Pennsylvania Avenue came forward to identify Gowen as the man who had bought a pistol the day before. Conspiracy theories about assassins and impersonations were put aside when the Gowen family reported that he had been \"acting queerly for some time and that there was a strain of hereditary insanity in his family.\"\n\nSimply put, [Gowen] turn[ed] the company from one of economic conservatism to daring adventurism. Every aspect of the [Reading Co.]'s existence was to be enervated and agitated and sometimes turned topsy-turvy during the Gowen years of the 1870s and 1880s.\n\nThe few scraps of letters and memoranda Gowen that shed some light on this seem to indicate that he was impatient, even bored, when details of real railroading practices came to his attention. It was corporate power and financial finagling that interested this complex man. . . . Gowen's financial rewards were meager, and while he did attain considerable public attention and the trappings of his office, this dynamic leader ultimately was consumed by his final failure and his career ended in tragedy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5482977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5482977", "title": "Gardasil", "text": "Gardasil\n\nGardasil, also known as Gardisil or Silgard or recombinant human papillomavirus vaccine [types 6, 11, 16, 18], is a vaccine for use in the prevention of certain strains of human papillomavirus (HPV), specifically HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. HPV types 16 and 18 cause an estimated 70% of cervical cancers, and are responsible for most HPV-induced anal, vulvar, vaginal, and penile cancer cases. HPV types 6 and 11 cause an estimated 90% of genital warts cases. In addition, high-risk human papilloma virus (hr-HPV) genital infection is the most common sexually transmitted infection among women. Though Gardasil does not treat existing infection, vaccination is still recommended for HPV positive individuals, as it may protect against one or more different strains of the disease. The HPV strains that Gardasil protects against are sexually transmitted.\n\nThe vaccine was approved in the US in June 2006 by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The FDA approved the use of Gardasil for use in girls and women aged 9-26 In 2011, the Gardasil vaccine has also been approved in 120 other countries. The FDA recommends vaccination before adolescence and potential sexual activity.\n\nIn 2007, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommended gardasil for routine vaccination of girls aged 11 and 12 years\n\nIn December 2014, the FDA approved a nine-valent Gardasil-based vaccine, Gardasil 9, to protect against infection with the strains covered by the first generation of Gardasil as well as five other HPV strains responsible for 20% of cervical cancers (HPV-31, HPV-33, HPV-45, HPV-52, and HPV-58). In October 2018, the FDA approved expanded use of Gardasil 9 to include individuals 27 through 45 years old.\n\nGardasil is a prophylactic HPV vaccine, meaning that it is designed to prevent HPV infections. For maximum effect, it is recommended that girls receive the vaccine prior to becoming sexually active. However, women who were already infected with one or more of the four HPV types targeted by the vaccine (6, 11, 16, or 18) were protected from clinical disease caused by the remaining HPV types in the vaccine. Common plantar warts are caused by HPV 1, 2 and 4, which are not prevented by this vaccine.\n\nSince Gardasil will not block infection with all of the HPV types that can cause cervical cancer, the vaccine should not be considered a substitute for routine pap smears.\n\nFewer HPV infections mean fewer complications from the virus and less time and money spent on the detection, work-up, and treatment of cervical cancer and its precursor, cervical dysplasia. It prevents infertility caused by cervical biopsies and reduces the severe respiratory problems of children who are infected by HPV from their mothers.\n\nIn addition, protection against HPV 6 and HPV 11 is expected to eliminate 90% of the cases of genital warts. Gardasil also protects against vulvar and vaginal cancers caused by HPV types 16 and 18.\n\nIn December 2010, Gardasil was approved by the FDA for prevention of anal cancer and associated precancerous lesions due to human papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16, and 18 in people ages 9 through 26 years.\n\nHPV infections, especially HPV 16, contribute to some head and neck cancer (HPV is found in an estimated 26-35% of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma).<ref name=\"doi:10.1186/1758-3284-1-36\">\n</ref> In principle, HPV vaccines may help reduce incidence of such cancers caused by HPV, but this has not been demonstrated.\n\nFDA approved Gardasil 9 for women and men aged 27 to 45. In a large, longitudinal study of women in this age group (n=3200), the vaccine was found to be 88% effective against persistent HPV infections that cause certain types genital warts and cancers. Vaccine efficacy for men in this age group was inferred. \n\nAn alternative vaccine known as Cervarix is manufactured by GlaxoSmithKline. It protects against two oncogenic strains of HPV, 16 and 18.\n\nThe National Cancer Institute says, \"Gardasil and Cervarix have been shown to provide protection against persistent cervical HPV 16/18 infections for up to 8 years, which is the maximum time of research follow-up thus far...HPV vaccination has also been found to prevent nearly 100 percent of the precancerous cervical cell changes that would have been caused by HPV 16/18. The data so far show duration of protection for up to 6.4 years with Cervarix and for up to 5 years for Gardasil—in women who were not infected with HPV at the time of vaccination.\"\n\nGardasil has been shown to be partially effective (approximately 38%) in preventing cervical cancer caused by ten other high-risk HPV types.\n\nAntibody levels at month 3 (1 month postdose 2) are substantially higher than at month 24 (18 months postdose 3), suggesting that protection is achieved by month 3 and perhaps earlier. This does not imply that the third dose can be skipped. One study has shown that Cervarix may be effective with fewer than three doses. Following further studies, in April 2014, the World Health Organization recommended that countries offer the vaccine in a two dose schedule to girls aged under 15, with each dose at least six months apart. The United Kingdom, Switzerland, Mexico and Quebec are among the few countries or territories to have implemented this as at June 2015. The CDC recommends the vaccines be delivered in two shots over six months.\n\nGardasil is also effective in males, providing protection against genital warts, anal warts, anal cancer, and some potentially precancerous lesions caused by some HPV types. Gardasil vaccine has been shown to significantly decrease the risk of young men contracting genital warts. In the United States, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved administration of the Gardasil vaccine to males between ages 9 and 26 in October 2009. The FDA approved administration of the Gardasil 9 vaccine to males between ages 9 and 15 in December 2014 and extended the age indication, by including males between ages 16 and 26, in December 2015. In the UK, HPV vaccines are licensed for males aged 9 to 15 and for females aged 9 to 26.\n\nMen who have sex with men (MSM) are particularly at risk for conditions associated with HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18; diseases and cancers that have a higher incidence among MSM include anal intraepithelial neoplasias, anal cancers, and genital warts. Type 16 is also associated with oropharyngeal squamous-cell carcinoma, a form of throat cancer. A 2005 study in San Francisco found that 95% of HIV-infected gay men also had anal HPV infection, of whom 50% had precancerous HPV-caused lesions.\n\nGardasil is given in three injections over six months. The second injection is two months after the first, and the third injection is six months after the first shot was administered. Alternatively, in some countries it is given as two injections with at least six months between them, for individuals aged 9 years up to and including 13 years.\n\n, more than 170 million doses of Gardasil had been distributed worldwide. The vaccine was tested in thousands of females (ages 9 to 26). The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) consider the vaccine to be safe. It does not contain mercury, thiomersal, live viruses or dead viruses, but virus-like particles, which cannot reproduce in the human body.\n\nLong-term side effects from the Gardasil vaccine are yet to be determined or confirmed due to the relatively short time that it has been available to the public. Publications of FDA and the CDC state that the vaccine has mostly minor side effects, such as soreness around the injection area. Fainting is more common among adolescents receiving the Gardasil vaccine than in other kinds of vaccinations. Patients should remain seated for 15 minutes after they receive the HPV vaccine. There have been reports that the shot is more painful than other common vaccines, and the manufacturer Merck partly attributes this to the virus-like particles within the vaccine. General side effects of the shot may include joint and muscle pain, fatigue, physical weakness and general malaise.\n\nDue to the lack of research on long-term side effects from gardasil, another area of concern is the biological responses to the vaccination itself . Researchers question how the vaccine will affect young girls hormones entering puberty, or if the vaccine will prevent the bodies natural defences against infection\n\nAn update on adverse events was published by the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" and looked at data from the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), covering 12,424 reported adverse events after about 23 million doses of vaccine between June 2006 and December 2008. Most adverse effects were minor and not greater than background rates compared with other vaccines, the exception being higher rates for syncope and thromboembolic events. Venous thromboembolic events were noted in 56 reports at a rate of 0.2 cases per 100,000 doses distributed and included 19 cases of pulmonary embolism, four of which were fatal. Overall, 772 events (6.2% of the total number of adverse events but only 0.003% of the total number of doses) were described as serious and included 32 reported deaths (1 per 1,000,000 doses).\n\nOther adverse events include local site reactions (7.5 cases per 100,000 doses distributed), headaches (4.1 cases per 100,000 doses distributed), hypersensitivity reactions (3.1 cases per 100,000 doses distributed), and urticaria (hives) (2.6 cases per 100,000 doses distributed). A Kaiser Permanente study tracking 190,000 girls and women post-vaccination for two years found that rates of the autoimmune disorders lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), hemolytic anemia, multiple sclerosis, thyroiditis and type 1 diabetes mellitus in vaccinated populations were the same as in unvaccinated populations.\nThe FDA and the CDC said that with millions of vaccinations \"by chance alone some serious adverse effects and deaths\" will occur in the time period following vaccination, but they have nothing to do with the vaccine. More than twenty women who received the Gardasil vaccine have died, but these deaths have not been causally connected to the shot. Where information has been available, the cause of death was explained by other factors. Likewise, a small number of cases of Guillain–Barré syndrome (GBS) have been reported following vaccination with Gardasil, though there is no evidence linking GBS to the vaccine. It is unknown why a person develops GBS, or what initiates the disease.\n\nThe FDA and the CDC monitor events to see if there are patterns, or more serious events than would be expected from chance alone. The majority (68%) of side effects data were reported by the manufacturer, but in about 90% of the manufacturer reported events, no follow-up information was given that would be useful to investigate the event further. In February 2009, the Spanish ministry of health suspended use of one batch of Gardasil after health authorities in the Valencia region reported that two girls had become ill after receiving the injection. Merck has stated that there was no evidence Gardasil was responsible for the two illnesses.\n\n\nThe HPV major capsid protein, L1, can spontaneously self-assemble into virus-like particles (VLPs) that resemble authentic HPV virions. Gardasil contains recombinant VLPs assembled from the L1 proteins of HPV types 6, 11, 16 and 18. Since VLPs lack the viral DNA, they cannot induce cancer. They do, however, trigger an antibody response that protects vaccine recipients from becoming infected with the HPV types represented in the vaccine. The L1 proteins are produced by separate fermentations in recombinant \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" and self-assembled into VLPs.\n\nThe National Cancer Institute writes:\n\nWhether the effects are temporary or lifelong, widespread vaccination could have a substantial public health impact. As of 2018, studies have proven that cervical cancer rates have dropped significantly since the introduction of Gardasil. Before Gardasil was introduced in 2006, 270,000 women died of cervical cancer worldwide in 2002. As of 2014, the mortality rate from cervical cancer has dropped 50% from 1975 which is due to the Gardasil vaccination along with increased focus on cervical screening. Acting FDA Administrator Andrew von Eschenbach said the\nvaccine will have \"a dramatic effect\" on the health of women around the world. Gardasil is an important tool in reducing cervical cancer rates even in countries where screening programs are routine. The National Cancer Institute estimated that 9,700 women would develop cervical cancer in 2006, and 3,700 would die.\n\nMerck and CSL Limited are expected to market Gardasil as a cancer vaccine, rather than an STD vaccine. In the early years of Gardasil's introduction it was unclear how widespread the use of the three-shot series would be, in part because of its $525 list price ($175 each for three shots). But as of 2013, vaccine coverage has been rising. In 2013, about 55% of girls ages 13-17 years had at least one dose of the vaccination covered, up from 29% in 2007. Coverage for women ages 18-34 also has increased significantly since 2007.\n\nStudies using different pharmacoeconomic models predict that vaccinating young women with Gardasil in combination with screening programs may be more cost effective than screening alone. These results have been important in decisions by many countries to start vaccination programs. For example, the Canadian government approved $300 million to buy the HPV vaccine in 2008 after deciding from studies that the vaccine would be cost-effective especially by immunizing young women. Marc Steben, an investigator for the vaccine, wrote that the financial burden of HPV related cancers on the Canadian people was already $300 million per year in 2005, so the vaccine could reduce this burden and be cost-effective.\n\nSince penile and anal cancers are much less common than cervical cancer, HPV vaccination of young men is likely to be much less cost-effective than for young women.\n\nThe August 2009 issue of the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" had an article reiterating the safety of Gardasil and another questioning the way it was presented to doctors and parents.The new vaccine against 4 types of human papillomavirus (HPV), Gardasil, like other immunizations appears to be a cost-effective intervention with the potential to enhance both adolescent health and the quality of their adult lives. However, the messages and the methods by which the vaccine was marketed present important challenges to physician practice and medical professionalism. By making the vaccine's target disease cervical cancer, the sexual transmission of HPV was minimized, the threat of cervical cancer to adolescents was maximized, and the subpopulations most at risk practically ignored. The vaccine manufacturer also provided educational grants to professional medical associations (PMAs) concerned with adolescent and women's health and oncology. The funding encouraged many PMAs to create educational programs and product-specific speakers' bureaus to promote vaccine use. However, much of the material did not address the full complexity of the issues surrounding the vaccine and did not provide balanced recommendations on risks and benefits. As important and appropriate as it is for PMAs to advocate for vaccination as a public good, their recommendations must be consistent with appropriate and cost-effective use.\n\nAccording to the CDC, as of 2012, use of the HPV vaccine had cut rates of infection with HPV-6, -11, -16 and -18 in half in American teenagers (from 11.5% to 4.3%) and by one third in American women in their early twenties (from 18.5% to 12.1%).\n\nResearch findings that pioneered the development of the vaccine began in 1991 by investigators Jian Zhou and Ian Frazer in The University of Queensland, Australia. Researchers at UQ found a way to form non-infectious virus-like particles (VLP), which could also strongly activate the immune system. Subsequently, the final form of the vaccine was developed in parallel, by researchers at Georgetown University Medical Center, the University of Rochester, the University of Queensland in Australia, and the U.S. National Cancer Institute.\n\nIn December 2014, the FDA approved Gardasil-9, which protects against 9 strains of HPV.\n\nThe governor of Texas, Rick Perry, issued an executive order adding Gardasil to the state's required vaccination list, which was later overturned by the Texas legislature. Perry has also allowed parents to opt out of the program more easily. Through lobbying efforts, Merck has suggested that state governments make vaccination with Gardasil mandatory for school attendance, which has upset some conservative and libertarian groups. A few conservative groups, such as the Family Research Council (FRC), have expressed their fears that vaccination with Gardasil might give girls a false sense of security regarding sex and lead to promiscuity, but no evidence exists to suggest that girls who were vaccinated went on to engage in more sexual activity than unvaccinated girls. Those who oppose a Gardasil vaccination requirement for young, school aged girls are concerned that it may lead to a decrease in their sexual inhibitions and an increase in their sexual risk taking. People who oppose the requirement would also suggest that adolescents do not fully understand what Gardasil protects against. Gardasil does not protect from other sexually transmitted infections, so the risk of teenagers experiencing a decrease in sexual inhibitions due to the false sense of protection from the vaccination could be harmful.\n\nPerry's decision was later criticized on September 12, 2011 by fellow presidential candidates Rick Santorum and Michele Bachmann during the Republican Party presidential debate as being an overreach of state power in a decision properly left to parents.\n\nIn June 2013, the Japanese government issued a notice that \"cervical cancer vaccinations should no longer be recommended for girls aged 12 to 16\" while an investigation is conducted into certain adverse events including pain and numbness in 38 girls. The vaccines sold in Japan are Cervarix, made by GlaxoSmithKline of the United Kingdom, and Gardasil, made by Merck Sharp & Dohme. An estimated 3.28 million people have received the vaccination; 1,968 cases of possible side effects have been reported. In January 2014, the Vaccine Adverse Reactions Review Committee concluded that there was no evidence to suggest a causal association between the HPV vaccine and the reported adverse events, but did not reinstate proactive recommendations for its use. A study on girls in Sapporo showed that since the Japanese government's suspension of recommending the vaccine, completion rates for the full course of vaccination have dropped to 0.6%.\n"}
{"id": "1984110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984110", "title": "Gigantothermy", "text": "Gigantothermy\n\nGigantothermy (sometimes called ectothermic homeothermy or inertial homeothermy) is a phenomenon with significance in biology and paleontology, whereby large, bulky ectothermic animals are more easily able to maintain a constant, relatively high body temperature than smaller animals by virtue of their smaller surface area to volume ratio. A bigger animal has proportionately less of its body close to the outside environment than a smaller animal of otherwise similar shape, and so it gains heat from, or loses heat to, the environment much more slowly.\n\nThe phenomenon is important in the biology of ectothermic megafauna, such as large turtles, and aquatic reptiles like ichthyosaurs and mosasaurs. Gigantotherms, though almost always ectothermic, generally have a body temperature similar to that of endotherms. It has been suggested that the larger dinosaurs would have been gigantothermic, rendering them virtually homeothermic.\n\nGigantothermy allows animals to maintain body temperature, but is most likely detrimental to endurance and muscle power as compared with endotherms due to decreased anaerobic efficiency. Mammals' bodies have roughly four times as much surface area occupied by mitochondria as reptiles, necessitating larger energy demands, and consequently producing more heat to use in thermoregulation. An ectotherm the same size of an endotherm would not be able to remain as active as the endotherm, as heat is modulated behaviorally rather than biochemically. More time is dedicated to basking than eating.\n\nLarge ectotherms displaying the same body size as large endotherms have the advantage of a slow metabolic rate, meaning that it takes reptiles longer to digest their food. Subsequently gigantothermic ectotherms would not have to eat as often as large endotherms that need to maintain a constant influx of food to meet energy demands. Although lions are much smaller than crocodiles, the lions must eat more often than crocodiles because of the higher metabolic output necessary to maintain the lion's heat and energy. The crocodile needs only to lie in the sun to digest more quickly and create ATP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26845782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26845782", "title": "Ingression (biology)", "text": "Ingression (biology)\n\nIngression is one of the many changes in the location or relative position of cells that takes place during the gastrulation stage of animal development. It produces an animal's mesenchyme cells at the onset of gastrulation. During the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), the primary mesenchyme cells (PMCs) detach from the epithelium and become internalized mesenchyme cells that can migrate freely (Figure 1). Each animal system utilizes an EMT to produce mesenchyme cells.\n\nWhile the mechanisms of ingression are not fully understood, studies using the sea urchin as a model organism have begun to shed light on this developmental process, and will be the focus here. There are three main changes that must occur within a cell to enable the process of ingression. The ingressing PMCs must first alter their affinity for the neighboring epithelial cells that will remain in the vegetal plate (vertebrate PMCs ingress from the primitive streak). During this time, these cells must lose their affinity for the hyaline layer to which their apical surface is attached. The ingressing cells will then apically constrict and alter their cellular architecture through a dramatic reorganization of their cytoskeleton. Lastly, these cells will modify their mode of motility and presumably gain affinity for the basal lamina which composes the lining of the blastocoel, the future migration substrate of the PMCs.\n\nChanges in the adhesion properties of these cells are the best characterized and understood mechanism of ingression. In sea urchins, epithelial cells adhere to one another as well as the hyaline layer through classic adherens and cadherin junctions. Ingression is a very dynamic process however, and the first sign of an ingressing cell is seen when a future PMC loses its adhesion to hyaline, loses adhesion and cadherin, and increase their adhesion to a basal laminal substrate. These processes occur rapidly, over approximately 30 minutes. It is not understood how the PMCs penetrate the basal lamina. The basal lamina is a loose matrix, therefore it is possible that the ingressing cells squeeze through the matrix. It is also hypothesized that the PMCs use a protease. EMT is determined by a dynamic gene regulatory network (GRN). snail and twist are two key transcription factors that makes up the GRN. Within an hour of ingression, numerous transcript factors are activated. It is known that beta-catenin (β-catenin) plays a key role in EMT. When β-catenin function is blocked, no EMT results. If β-catenin is over-expressed, too many cells undergo EMT. The vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) is also necessary for the PMCs to function as mesenchymal cells. Lastly, it is thought that the ingression of PMCs is further facilitated simply through the simultaneous ingression neighboring cells.\n\nWithin birds and mammals, epiblast cells converge at the midline and ingress at the primitive streak. Ingression of these cells results in formation of the mesoderm. The use of ingression to internalize presumptive mesoderm is considered a major evolutionary change in mesoderm morphogenesis within chordates. Within chordate embryos, there is an evolutionary trend exhibited in the mechanisms used to internalize presumptive mesoderm. Basal chordates rely predominantly on invagination, anamniote vertebrates and reptiles on a varying combination of involution and ingression, and birds and mammals primarily on ingression.\n\nBesides ingression, two other types of internalizing cell movements may occur during gastrulation: invagination and involution.\n"}
{"id": "31587930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31587930", "title": "James Wasserman", "text": "James Wasserman\n\nJames Wasserman (born 1948) is an American author and occultist. A member of Ordo Templi Orientis since 1976 and a book designer by trade, he has written extensively on spiritual and political liberty.\n\nWasserman began working in 1973 at Weiser Books, then the world’s largest bookstore and publishing company to specialize in esoteric literature. While working at Weiser, he met and befriended legendary filmmakers and occultists Harry Smith and Alejandro Jodorowsky. Wasserman worked with Brazilian occultist Marcelo Ramos Motta to publish the \"Commentaries of AL\" in 1975, for which he wrote the introduction. Additionally, he supervised the 1976 Weiser publication of The Book of the Law, the first popular edition to append the holograph manuscript to the typeset text. In 1977, Wasserman arranged to professionally re-photograph Frieda Harris' Tarot paintings for use in an improved second edition of Aleister Crowley's Thoth Tarot deck, and also wrote the instruction booklet.\n\nWasserman left Weiser in 1977 to found Studio 31, where he produced the \"Simon Necronomicon\", a volume purporting to be the mythological \"Necronomicon\" made famous by Howard Philips Lovecraft. In 2008, it was reissued in a high-quality 31st anniversary edition by Ibis Press. In 1994, Wasserman assembled a team of scholars, photographers, and editorial staff to produce a full-color version of \"The Egyptian Book of the Dead\" featuring the Papyrus of Ani as discussed in In the Center of the Fire His edition of the Book of the Dead was described as offering \"much of value in presentation, layout and commentary\" by John Baines, professor of Egyptology at the University of Oxford. In 2014, the Twentieth Anniversary Edition was completed, revised and expanded, adding: \"Thoughts on this Twentieth Anniversary Edition\" by James Wasserman; \"Coming Forth Into the Day\" by J. Daniel Gunther; and \"An Annotated Bibliography and Study Guide\" by Dr. Ogden Goelet. This new edition includes some corrections and improvements to the color plates, and was completely recreated in electronic format.\n\nA member of O.T.O. since 1976, Wasserman founded one of its oldest lodges, Tahuti Lodge, in New York City in 1979. He has played a key role within the Order in publishing the literary corpus of Aleister Crowley. In 1983, he worked with two other members of O.T.O. to produce \"The Holy Books of Thelema,\" a collection of Crowley’s Class A (inspired) writings. In 1986, his essay “An Introduction to the History of the O.T.O.” appeared in \"The Equinox III, No. 10\". In 2009, he and his wife Nancy published \"To Perfect This Feast,\" a performance commentary on the Gnostic Mass. Revised for a second edition in 2010, the book is now in its third and final edition, published 2013. Wasserman is described by Dan Burstein as \"a founder of the modern Ordo Templi Orientis” in his guide to Dan Brown's novel \"Angels & Demons\". In 2012, Wasserman wrote \"In the Center of the Fire\", an extensive account of his own experiences in the development of the modern O.T.O. In 2015, he designed and produced a collection of essays for Ordo Templi Orientis published as \"Success Is Your Proof: One Hundred Years of O.T.O. in North America: A Festschrift in Honor of Hymenaeus Beta, Celebrating Thirty Years of Leadership\". He contributed an essay entitled \"The New Aeon in the New World: The Law of Liberty in the Wild West.\" Eleven other ranking members of the Order contributed essays on a wide range of topics such as Thelemic doctrine, magical practices, Order history, and biographical treatments.\n\nWasserman’s work in O.T.O. and his numerous writings point to a philosophy based on individual liberty and the opportunity for direct personal experience of God within. This more modern conception of Gnosticism dispenses with the myriad variations of the term as it is applied to numerous sub sects within major religions long ago. Modern Gnosticism simply presupposes the ability to forge a direct link with the highest level of divinity. Wasserman further advances the notion that political liberty offers humanity the best conditions for spiritual growth.\n\nWasserman has appeared on several television networks including The History Channel, The Discovery Channel, National Geographic TV; and numerous radio broadcasts including NPR, Coast to Coast Radio, and 21st Century Radio. In 2009, he discussed his book \"Secrets of Masonic Washington\" at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. In 2012, his performance of Liber Israfel was broadcast on The Discovery Channel in a program entitled Secrets of Secret Societies. In 2013, Swirling Star Lodge filmed a 50-minute talk he presented on a modern history of the O.T.O, a supplement to \"In the Center of the Fire\". In 2014, Swirling Star Lodge released a video of a performance of the Gnostic Mass based on the instructions in \"To Perfect This Feast\" In May 2015, Wasserman addressed the O.T.O. in Vancouver, British Columbia in celebration of its one hundredth year in North America. In 2017 he addressed NOTOCON on \"The Roots of O.T.O. in the Crusades,\" a public version of which is on his website.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10861655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10861655", "title": "John Bede Dalley", "text": "John Bede Dalley\n\nJohn Bede Dalley (5 October 1876 – 6 September 1935) was an Australian journalist and novelist, editor of \"Melbourne Punch\".\n\nDalley was born in Rose Bay, Sydney, the second son of William Bede Dalley (1831–1888) and Eleanor Jane, \"née\" Long. He was born at Sydney and was educated at St Aloysius' College. Following his father's death in 1888, John and his brothers were sent to England by their Uncle and guardian William Alexander Long, where they attended St Augustine's Abbey school at Ramsgate, and Beaumont College. On 1 November 1895, Dalley matriculated from University College, Oxford.\n\nDalley was called to the bar in London in 1901 and practised at Sydney until 1907, when he joined the staff of \"The Bulletin\" after becoming deaf from a fall off a horse. After being rejected several times, he joined the Australian Field Artillery in March 1915 as Second Lieutenant. He served in World War I for three years in Egypt and France.\n\nOn Dalley's return from the War, he rejoined \"The Bulletin\". In 1924 Dalley was appointed editor of \"Melbourne Punch\" which, however, ceased publication about a year later. Dalley returned to Sydney and became associate-editor of \"The Bulletin\". He then spent several years in London as representative of the \"Melbourne Herald\". In 1928 he published a novel \"No Armour\", which was followed in 1929 by \"Max Flambard\", and in 1930 by \"Only the Morning\". These books, though scarcely in the front rank of Australian fiction, are all well written commentaries on the life of the period. Dalley also wrote short stories and was an excellent all-round journalist. He was washed off the rocks while fishing and drowned on 6 September 1935. He married Claire, daughter of Charles Scott, who survived him with a daughter.\n"}
{"id": "12723149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12723149", "title": "Kelgian (Sector General)", "text": "Kelgian (Sector General)\n\nA Kelgian (physiological classification DBLF) is one of about seventy known intelligent species in the fictional Sector General universe, and one of the most common species in Sector 12 General Hospital itself. Overall, A Kelgian resembles a 5–6 ft. long furry caterpillar whose fur is constantly rippling in various patterns. The motion of the fur of a Kelgian is a completely accurate guide to what it is feeling and necessary for communication within the species itself. This trait makes the Kelgians completely incapable of any form of untruth.\n\nKelgians, as indicated by the first letter \"D\" of their classification, are oxygen breathers whose normal gravity approximates the standard gravity of Earth. Their atmosphere is an oxygen-nitrogen combination that also approximates Earth's. They are herbivores, eating plants (such as crelletin vine shoots) by putting their face inside of their bowl. They sleep in an \"S\" or a question mark pose in zero-gravity or, in regular gravity, on a bed.\n\nThey are about 5–6 ft. long once they reach maturity and they walk and lie horizontally, although they can temporarily stand up on their rearmost four legs, at which point they would be at eye level with average humans. They have four extensible eye-stalks which can turn to give a 360° view of their surroundings. Their number of legs varies throughout the series, but is generally held to be 12 pairs, or 24 legs. They have no neck or skeleton, due to an immense and highly vulnerable cardiovascular system. This system is complex, with two hearts and many thin-walled blood vessels near the surface. This, combined with high pressure and a high pulse rate, makes cuts very dangerous; a Kelgian can bleed to death from a minor injury if not controlled. Their skin is thicker than a human's, and they have two mouths, one for their digestive system and one for their respiratory system. A Kelgian female conceives once in her lifetime, producing two offspring of each gender. Their speech sounds like a series of hoots and whines to human ears.\n\nTheir fur, which is always in motion, is a perfect and uncontrollable mirror to their emotional state, and gives emotional context to the Kelgian voice which has no emotion in it. They highly value their fur, as it is very important to their pre-marriage proposals and allows them to speak properly. Doctors operating on them will try to remove as little fur as possible. Because of the properties of their fur, Kelgians never developed the concept of being diplomatic, lying, or politeness (and indeed are infamous for this trait).\n\n"}
{"id": "36615107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36615107", "title": "Kungälv school shooting", "text": "Kungälv school shooting\n\nThe Kungälv school shooting took place on 4 March 1961 in Kungälvs läroverk, in central Kungälv in Västra Götaland, Sweden. The school is currently known as Thorildskolan. It was the first reported school shooting in Sweden and one of the earliest in Europe. Seven youngsters were wounded by 15 bullets fired by the perpetrator and one died from his wounds.\n\nThe memory of the murdered Per Håkan Altvall is kept alive in Kungälv via a stipend \"awarded annually to one or a number of students known for good friendship and social support to students\".\n\nAround 23:30 on March 4, 1961, a large group of youngsters were dancing in the school gym hall. During the last dance, 17-year-old Ove Conry Andersson entered, pulled out a gun and started shooting randomly. People attempted to hide under chairs and behind a piano. Seven were wounded, including 18-year-old Per Håkan Altvall, who later died from his wounds. He was hit in the stomach and an eyewitness states that the perpetrator first shot Altvall in the leg and later on his way out shot him again in the stomach, killing him. The wounded were first taken to a classroom in the school and later to Kungälv hospital.\n\nKungälv police chased the gunman all night on the road to Ytterby, where it was assumed he had escaped. Kungälv police requested assistance from police in both Ytterby and Gothenburg. The following morning, March 5, just before 8 a.m., the killer showed up at the police station, driven there by an older coworker. A few hours later, the 17 year old gunman had willingly told the police all his details of the incident. The shooter had been to a different party earlier and drank two mixed drinks, then watched an ice hockey game while drinking cognac with a friend. At 10.30 p.m. he first entered the school dance and got into a fight with a guest who was also an amateur boxer. Andersson then went to get his gun, came back and started shooting, killing Altvall before escaping and hiding in the Fontin forest. The chase for Andersson was the largest police activity in west Sweden to date, involving a total of 50 policemen plus dogs. \n\nOn March 6, all of the school gathered in the gym hall in memory of Per Altvall.\n\nAndersson was known in Kungälv for his interest in cowboy movies and told the police he wanted to be like heroes in the movies. This event led to the first proposal to the government to investigate the effects of media violence, and the then-popular radio show \"Tidsspegeln\" (Mirror of Time) held a debate about \"ideals and heroes for the youth\" with the headline \"Can we blame Cartwrights\".\n\nA 1995 article in Swedish newspaper Dagens Nyheter reported that Andersson was considered mentally unbalanced, partly because of the effects of alcohol, at the time of the shooting, and sentenced to closed psychiatric treatment. He refused to comment but DN mentioned that \"it is known that he had married and had children less than four years after the incident.\" Altvall's mother Essie, then 88, was also interviewed and mentioned that she reached out to Andersson's mother shortly after the shooting and had forgiven the shooter for the murder of her son.\n\nAndersson committed suicide on 12 August 2008.\n"}
{"id": "24037440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24037440", "title": "La Parkita", "text": "La Parkita\n\nAlberto Pérez Jiménez (May 15, 1975 – June 29, 2009) was a Mexican \"Luchador\" \"enmascarado\" who worked in the \"Mini-Estrella\" division from 1990 until his death in 2009. He was best known under the ring name La Parkita, having used the name in Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA), the Mexican Independent circuit and Chikara in the United States. His older brother Mario and twin brother Alejandro also wrestled under the names Espectrito and Espectrito II respectively. On June 29, 2009 both twins were killed by prostitutes in Mexico City.\n\nAfter being trained by his older brother Mario, who wrestles as Espectrito, Alberto made his professional wrestling debut in 1990 as a \"Mini-Estrella\" named Gemelito Diablo. Working in the Mini division does not necessarily mean that Alberto is a dwarf as several short wrestlers work in the \"Mini\" division. Later on he wrestled as \"Voladorcito\", a mini version of the wrestler Volador and even briefly wore the outfit of \"Octagoncito\" when the original Octagoncito was unable to wrestle.\n\nIn 1992 Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre's (CMLL) head booker Antonio Peña left the promotion to create his own promotion, Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). In CMLL Peña had been instrumental in the creation of the \"Mini-Estrellas\" division and immediately started a Minis division in AAA as well, consisting of several CMLL Minis and a crew of new Minis signed on AAA's creation. One of these signees was Alberto Pérez Jiménez, through the recommendation of his brother Mario Pérez Jiménez who worked for AAA at the time. Jiménez was given the gimmick of \"La Parkita\", a \"Mascota\" (Miniature version) of the popular wrestler La Parka, complete with a skeleton mask and body suit. Later on Alberto began doing double duty, working some nights as La Parkita and other nights as \"Payasito Amarillo\", forming a trio with \"Payasito Rojo\" and \"Payasito Azul\" to form the trio \"Los Payasitos\" a mini version of the \"rudo\" (bad guy or heel) trio of clowns called \"Los Payasos\". On June 10, La Parkita was one of the 13 Minis who participated in the main event of Triplemanía III-A, a multi-man \"Luchas de Apuestas\", or bet match, where each participant put their mask on the line. La Parkita managed to save his mask while Payasito Rojo was unmasked after the match. Eight days later La Parkita was on the losing side of an eight-mini match at Triplemanía III-B; the match saw the team of Torerito, Super Muñequito, Octagoncito and Mascarita Sagrada defeat La Parkita, Espectrito I, Espectrito II and Fuercita Guerrera. A year later the Jiménez brothers lost to Máscarita Sagráda, Jr., Super Muñequito and Mini Frisbee at Triplemanía IV-C.\n\nAlberto left AAA, being fired for missing too many shows. Peña gave the \"La Parkita\" to another wrestler but Alberto kept working as La Parkita on the Mexican Independent circuit, although he never regularly worked for one single promotion after leaving AAA.\n\nAlberto Pérez Jiménez is the twin brother of Alejandro Pérez Jiménez who was best known under the ring name Espectrito II or Espectro, Jr. Alberto and Alejandro's older brother Mario Pérez Jiménez is also a wrestler known primarily as Espectrito.\n\nAlberto Pérez Jiménez along with his twin brother Alejandro (also a professional midget wrestler under the name of Espectrito II), were found murdered on June 29, 2009. It was reported that the two brothers checked into a hotel after a Sunday night show. Allegedly two female prostitutes approached the wrestlers, and were invited back to their hotel room. There the two women spiked the men's drinks with what was believed to be eye drops mixed with alcohol. The drinks were intended to knock the men out, but they died instead, perhaps due to their small stature. The prostitutes were allegedly part of a group called La Filtracion. On July 22, 2009 it was reported that the Mexican police had arrested one of the two women suspected in the death of the Pérez Jiménez twins. Police traced the whereabouts of the woman by tracking one of the Pérez Jiménez' twins cell phones which she used. The woman admitted to going to the hotel room with the Pérez Jiménez twins but denied being involved in their death. On August 12, 2009 Mexican police tracked down the second supspect in Hidalgo and arrested her. She admitted to being at the crime scene but maintained that it was her accomplice who administered the drugs that killed the Pérez Jiménez twins. The two women were later found guilty and, on July 12, 2010, sentenced to 47 years in prison.\n\nThe story of the Jiménez twins' murder was the subject of an episode of \"Tabloid with Jerry Springer\" that shows a dramatized version of the events including an interview with their mother Maria Elena Jiménez and brother Juan Jiménez. The episode revealed that Alberto was starting to become involved with local politics, but did not reveal any actual links between their death and Alberto's political aspirations.\n\nWhile Alberto Pérez Jiménez was the first wrestler to use the \"La Parkita\" ring character at least two other wrestlers have used the name in AAA after Alberto left the promotion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5518176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5518176", "title": "Lee Lue", "text": "Lee Lue\n\nMajor Lee Lue (1935 – 12 July 1969) was a Laotian Hmong fighter bomber pilot notable for flying more combat missions than any other pilot in the Kingdom of Laos. Lee Lue flew continuously, as many as 10 missions a day and averaging 120 combat missions a month to build a total of more than 5,000 sorties. Lee Lue was the leader of the special group of Hmong pilots flying T-28Ds from Long Tieng against the Pathet Lao and North Vietnamese positions. The group was funded by the CIA and was part of the regular Royal Lao Air Force, but took orders directly from MR2 Commander Gen. Vang Pao. He was shot down by anti-aircraft fire and killed over Laos near Muang Soui on 12 July 1969. At the time of his death, he had flown more combat missions than any pilot in history.\n\nA motto attributed to him was \"Fly 'til you die.\"\nHe was posthumously promoted to lieutenant colonel.\n\nLee Lue was born in 1935 to Chong Ger Lee and his wife Pa Vang in the village of Phou Pheng in Xiangkhoang Province, Laos. In 1953, Lee Lue's family moved to Xieng Khouang city after the Vietnamese invaded Laos. After the war ended in 1955, Lee Lue married Jou and two years later their first child, a son named Ze, was born. Lee Lue studied in Xieng Khouang city and later enrolled in teacher training school. In 1959, he took a position as an elementary school teacher in Lat Houng. He was among a handful of Hmong teachers in the entire country. As the Secret War was escalating in 1967, Touby Lyfoung and General Vang Pao requested volunteers for flight training in T-28s. The training took place in Thailand. With six months of flight training, Lee Lue and another volunteer, Vang Toua, became the first two Hmong T-28 fighter pilots. Lee Lue successfully flew aerial support for ground troops and built a record number of sorties.\n\nAway from the war, Lee Lue devoted his time to studying maps, and playing cards with his comrades. Prior to his death, Lee Lue had purchased his military uniform and was waiting to receive the rank of major. \"He was excited about the promotion,\" said his wife Jou. Hours before his death, the area of Muang Soui was under heavy enemy attack. Gen. Vang Pao then telephoned Lee Lue, who was flying from Vientiane, to see if he carried any bombs with him as he was on his way to Long Cheng. Lee Lue's T-28 was armed. Vang Pao needed Lee Lue to attack the Pathet Lao troops in Muang Soui as they were losing ground as well as troops. On that day, Lee Lue's T-28 was hit and his plane was later found in debris. \"His death is among a few soldiers I cried to,\" stated Vang Pao in 2006. According to Christopher Robbin's book, \"The Ravens\", respect for Lee Lue and his skills was shared by not just the Hmong but also seasoned American pilots. Meanwhile, Vang Toua was lost among thick clouds and never seen again.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47172", "title": "Misanthropy", "text": "Misanthropy\n\nMisanthropy is the general hatred, dislike, distrust or contempt of the human species or human nature. A misanthrope or misanthropist is someone who holds such views or feelings. The word's origin is from the Greek words μῖσος (\"misos\", \"hatred\") and ἄνθρωπος (\"anthrōpos\", \"man, human\"). The condition is often confused with asociality.\n\nGustave Flaubert once declared that he would \"die of suppressed rage at the folly of [his] fellow men.\" Misanthropy has also been ascribed to a number of writers of satire, such as William S. Gilbert (\"I hate my fellow-man\") and William Shakespeare (\"Timon of Athens\"). Jonathan Swift is widely believed to have been misanthropic (see \"A Tale of a Tub\" and, most especially, Book IV of \"Gulliver's Travels\"). Poet Philip Larkin has been described as a misanthrope.\n\nMolière's play \"The Misanthrope\" is one of the more famous French plays on this topic. Less famous, but more contemporary is the 1971 play by Françoise Dorin, \"Un sale égoïste\" (A Filthy Egoist) which takes the point of view of the misanthrope and entices the viewer to understand his motives.\n\nMichelangelo has been called a misanthrope. Don Van Vliet (commonly known as Captain Beefheart) has been described as a misanthrope, with close friend Kristine McKenna stating that he \"thought human beings were the worst species that was ever dreamed up\". Morrissey, a songwriter, has been dubbed \"pop's most famous misanthrope\".\n\nFernando Pessoa's \"factless autobiography\" \"The Book of Disquiet\" has been described as misanthropic. \n\nThe pre-Socratic philosopher Heraclitus was by various accounts a misanthrope and a loner who had little patience for human society. In a fragment, the philosopher complained that \"people [were] forever without understanding\" of what was, in his view, the nature of reality.\n\nIn Western philosophy, misanthropy has been connected to isolation from human society. In Plato's \"Phaedo\", Socrates describes a misanthrope in relation to his fellow man: \"Misanthropy develops when without art one puts complete trust in somebody thinking the man absolutely true and sound and reliable and then a little later \"discovers\" him to be bad and unreliable ... and when it happens to someone often ... he ends up ... hating everyone.\" Misanthropy, then, is presented as a potential result of thwarted expectations or even excessively naïve optimism, since Plato argues that \"art\" would have allowed the potential misanthrope to recognize that the majority of men are to be found in between good and evil. Aristotle follows a more ontological route: the misanthrope, as an essentially solitary man, is not a man at all: he must be a beast or a god, a view reflected in the Renaissance view of misanthropy as a \"beast-like state\".\n\nThere is a difference between philosophical pessimism and misanthropy. Immanuel Kant said that \"Of the crooked timber of humanity, no straight thing can ever be made\", and yet this was not an expression of the uselessness of mankind itself. Kant further stated that hatred of mankind can take two distinctive forms: aversion from men (Anthropophobia) and enmity towards them. The condition can arise partly from dislike and partly from ill-will.\n\nMartin Heidegger has also been said to show misanthropy in his concern of the \"they\"—the tendency of people to conform to one view, which no one has really thought through, but is just followed because, \"they say so\". This might be thought of as more a criticism of conformity than of people in general. Unlike Schopenhauer, Heidegger was opposed to any systematic ethics; however, in some of his later thought he does see the possibility of harmony between people, as part of the four-fold, mortals, gods, earth and sky.\n\nIn the Judeo philosophies (800–1400), the Jewish philosopher Saadia Gaon uses the Platonic idea that the self-isolated man is dehumanized by friendlessness to argue against the misanthropy of anchorite asceticism and reclusiveness.\n\nMisanthropy is more pronounced among people from specific professions, especially among content moderators. This outlook often derives from the serious psychological toll of reviewing violent, sexually abusive, and disturbing content for a living.\n\nIn \"Nautilus\", Leonard Mlodinow writes of Isaac Newton, \"It would be nice to be able to say that this giant of intellect was an empathetic, agreeable man, but if he had any such tendencies he did a good job suppressing them and coming off as an arrogant misanthrope.\"\n"}
{"id": "25345530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25345530", "title": "Models of neural computation", "text": "Models of neural computation\n\nModels of neural computation are attempts to elucidate, in an abstract and mathematical fashion, the core principles that underlie information processing in biological nervous systems, or functional components thereof. This article aims to provide an overview of the most definitive models of neuro-biological computation as well as the tools commonly used to construct and analyze them.\n\nDue to the complexity of nervous system behavior, the associated experimental error bounds are ill-defined, but the relative merit of the different models of a particular subsystem can be compared according to how closely they reproduce real-world behaviors or respond to specific input signals. In the closely related field of computational neuroethology, the practice is to include the environment in the model in such a way that the loop is closed. In the cases where competing models are unavailable, or where only gross responses have been measured or quantified, a clearly formulated model can guide the scientist in designing experiments to probe biochemical mechanisms or network connectivity.\n\nIn all but the simplest cases, the mathematical equations that form the basis of a model cannot be solved exactly. Nevertheless, computer technology, sometimes in the form of specialized software or hardware architectures, allow scientists to perform iterative calculations and search for plausible solutions. A computer chip or a robot that can interact with the natural environment in ways akin to the original organism is one embodiment of a useful model. The ultimate measure of success is however the ability to make testable predictions.\n\nThe rate of information processing in biological neural systems are constrained by the speed at which an action potential can propagate down a nerve fibre. This conduction velocity ranges from 1 m/s to over 100 m/s, and generally increases with the diameter of the neuronal process. Slow in the timescales of biologically-relevant events dictated by the speed of sound or the force of gravity, the nervous system overwhelmingly prefers parallel computations over serial ones in time-critical applications.\n\nA model is robust if it continues to produce the same computational results under variations in inputs or operating parameters introduced by noise. For example, the direction of motion as computed by a robust motion detector would not change under small changes of luminance, contrast or velocity jitter.\n\nThis refers to the principle that the response of a nervous system should stay within certain bounds even as the inputs from the environment change drastically. For example, when adjusting between a sunny day and a moonless night, the retina changes the relationship between light level and neuronal output by a factor of more than formula_1 so that the signals sent to later stages of\nthe visual system always remain within a much narrower range of amplitudes.\n\nA linear system is one whose response in a specified unit of measure, to a set of inputs considered at once, is the sum of its responses due to the inputs considered individually.\n\nLinear systems are easier to analyze mathematically and are a persuasive assumption in many models including the McCulloch and Pitts neuron, population coding models, and the simple neurons often used in Artificial neural networks. Linearity may occur in the basic elements of a neural circuit such as the response of a postsynaptic neuron, or as an emergent property of a combination of nonlinear subcircuits. Though linearity is often seen as incorrect, there has been recent work suggesting it may, in fact, be biophysically plausible in some cases.\n\nA computational neural model may be constrained to the level of biochemical signalling in individual neurons or it may describe an entire organism in its environment. The examples here are grouped according to their scope.\n\nThe most widely used models of information transfer in biological neurons are based on analogies with electrical circuits. The equations to be solved are time-dependent differential equations with electro-dynamical variables such as current, conductance or resistance, capacitance and voltage.\n\nThe Hodgkin–Huxley model, widely regarded as one of the great achievements of 20th-century biophysics, describes how action potentials in neurons are initiated and propagated in axons via voltage-gated ion channels. It is a set of nonlinear ordinary differential equations that were introduced by Alan Lloyd Hodgkin and Andrew Huxley in 1952 to explain the results of voltage clamp experiments on the squid giant axon. Analytic solutions do not exist, but the Levenberg–Marquardt algorithm, a modified Gauss–Newton algorithm, is often used to fit these equations to voltage-clamp data.\n\nThe FitzHugh–Nagumo model is a simplication of the Hodgkin–Huxley model. The Hindmarsh–Rose model is an extension which describes neuronal spike bursts. The Morris–Lecar model is a modification which does not generate spikes, but describes slow-wave propagation, which is implicated in the inhibitory synaptic mechanisms of central pattern generators.\n\nThis approach, influenced by control theory and signal processing, treats neurons and synapses as time-invariant entities that produce outputs that are linear combinations of input signals, often depicted as sine waves with a well-defined temporal or spatial frequencies.\n\nThe entire behavior of a neuron or synapse are encoded in a transfer function, lack of knowledge concerning the exact underlying mechanism notwithstanding. This brings a highly developed mathematics to bear on the problem of information transfer.\n\nThe accompanying taxonomy of linear filters turns out to be useful in characterizing neural circuitry. Both low- and high-pass filters are postulated to exist in some form in sensory systems, as they act to prevent information loss in high and low contrast environments, respectively.\n\nIndeed, measurements of the transfer functions of neurons in the horseshoe crab retina according to linear systems analysis show that they remove short-term fluctuations in input signals leaving only the long-term trends, in the manner of low-pass filters. These animals are unable to see low-contrast objects without the help of optical distortions caused by underwater currents.\n\nIn the retina, an excited neural receptor can suppress the activity of surrounding neurons within an area called the inhibitory field. This effect, known as lateral inhibition, increases the contrast and sharpness in visual response, but leads to the epiphenomenon of Mach bands. This is often illustrated by the optical illusion of light or dark stripes next to a sharp boundary between two regions in an image of different luminance.\n\nThe Hartline-Ratliff model describes interactions within a group of \"p\" photoreceptor cells. Assuming these interactions to be linear, they proposed the following relationship for the steady-state response rate formula_2 of the given \"p\"-th photoreceptor in terms of the steady-state response rates formula_3 of the \"j\" surrounding receptors:\n\nformula_4.\n\nHere,\n\nformula_5 is the excitation of the target \"p\"-th receptor from sensory transduction\n\nformula_6 is the associated threshold of the firing cell, and\n\nformula_7 is the coefficient of inhibitory interaction between the \"p\"-th and the \"j\"th receptor. The inhibitory interaction decreases with distance from the target \"p\"-th receptor.\n\nAccording to Jeffress, in order to compute the location of a sound source in space from interaural time differences, an auditory system relies on delay lines: the induced signal from an ipsilateral auditory receptor to a particular neuron is delayed for the same time as it takes for the original sound to go in space from that ear to the other. Each postsynaptic cell is differently delayed and thus specific for a particular inter-aural time difference. This theory is equivalent to the mathematical procedure of cross-correlation.\n\nFollowing Fischer and Anderson, the response of the postsynaptic neuron to the signals from the left and right ears is given by\n\nformula_8\n\nwhere\n\nformula_9\n\nformula_10\n\nand\n\nformula_11 represents the delay function. This is not entirely correct and a clear eye is needed to put the symbols in order.\n\nStructures have been located in the barn owl which are consistent with Jeffress-type mechanisms.\n\nA motion detector needs to satisfy three general requirements: pair-inputs, asymmetry and nonlinearity. The cross-correlation operation implemented asymmetrically on the responses from a pair of photoreceptors satisfies these minimal criteria, and furthermore, predicts features which have been observed in the response of neurons of the lobula plate in bi-wing insects.\n\nThe master equation for response is\n\nformula_12\n\nThe HR model predicts a peaking of the response at a particular input temporal frequency. The conceptually similar Barlow–Levick model is deficient in the sense that a stimulus presented to only one receptor of the pair is sufficient to generate a response. This is unlike the HR model, which requires two correlated signals delivered in a time ordered fashion. However the HR model does not show a saturation of response at high contrasts, which is observed in experiment. Extensions of the Barlow-Levick model can provide for this discrepancy.\n\nThis uses a cross-correlation in both the spatial and temporal directions, and is related to the concept of optical flow.\n\nMutually inhibitory processes are a unifying motif of all central pattern generators. This has been demonstrated in the stomatogastric (STG) nervous system of crayfish and lobsters. Two and three-cell oscillating networks based on the STG have been constructed which are amenable to mathematical analysis, and which depend in a simple way on synaptic strengths and overall activity, presumably the knobs on these things. The mathematics involved is the theory of dynamical systems.\n\n\nFlight control in the fly is believed to be mediated by inputs from the visual system and also the halteres, a pair of knob-like organs which measure angular velocity. Integrated computer models of \"Drosophila\", short on neuronal circuitry but based on the general guidelines given by control theory and data from the tethered flights of flies, have been constructed to investigate the details of flight control.\n\nIn this approach the strength and type, excitatory or inhibitory, of synaptic connections are represented by the magnitude and sign of weights, that is, numerical coefficients formula_13 in front of the inputs formula_14 to a particular neuron. The response of the formula_15-th neuron is given by a sum of nonlinear, usually \"sigmoidal\" functions formula_16 of the inputs as:\n\nformula_17.\n\nThis response is then fed as input into other neurons and so on. The goal is to optimize the weights of the neurons to output a desired response at the output layer respective to a set given inputs at the input layer. This optimization of the neuron weights is often performed using the backpropagation algorithm and an optimization method such as gradient descent or Newton's method of optimization. Backpropagation compares the output of the network with the expected output from the training data, then updates the weights of each neuron to minimize the contribution of that individual neuron to the total error of the network.\n\nGenetic algorithms are used to evolve neural (and sometimes body) properties in a model brain-body-environment system so as to exhibit some desired behavioral performance. The evolved agents can then be subjected to a detailed analysis to uncover their principles of operation. Evolutionary approaches are particularly useful for exploring spaces of possible solutions to a given behavioral task because these approaches minimize a priori assumptions about how a given behavior ought to be instantiated. They can also be useful for exploring different ways to complete a computational neuroethology model when only partial neural circuitry is available for a biological system of interest.\n\nThe NEURON software, developed at Duke University, is a simulation environment for modeling individual neurons and networks of neurons. The NEURON environment is a self-contained environment allowing interface through its GUI or via scripting with hoc or python. The NEURON simulation engine is based on a Hodgkin–Huxley type model using a Borg–Graham formulation. Several examples of models written in NEURON are available from the online database ModelDB.\n\nNervous systems differ from the majority of silicon-based computing devices in that they resemble analog computers (not digital data processors) and massively parallel processors, not sequential processors. To model nervous systems accurately, in real-time, alternative hardware is required.\n\nThe most realistic circuits to date make use of analog properties of existing digital electronics (operated under non-standard conditions) to realize Hodgkin–Huxley-type models \"in silico\".\n\n"}
{"id": "12449703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12449703", "title": "Mortal Coil (Star Trek: Voyager)", "text": "Mortal Coil (Star Trek: Voyager)\n\n\"Mortal Coil\" is the twelfth episode of the of the American science fiction television series \"\", the 80th episode overall. The episode originally aired on December 17, 1997, on the UPN network. Directed by Allan Kroeker, it was written by Bryan Fuller, and produced by Kenneth Biller and Joe Menosky.\n\nSet in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures of the Starfleet and Maquis crew of the starship USS \"Voyager\" after they were stranded in the Delta Quadrant far from the rest of the Federation. In this episode, it deals with a starring character's death, resurrection, and crisis of faith.\n\nNeelix is killed while participating in a survey mission of a protomatter nebula. Using a technique devised by Seven of Nine , however, the Doctor is able to revive Neelix after being dead for nearly 19 hours. Distressed that he had not perceived the afterlife while he was dead, Neelix begins to question his religious beliefs. With the aid of Chakotay, Neelix embarks on a spiritual vision quest, during which he confronts his dead sister, Alixia, who mocks him and then dies and crumbles into dust. He then finds himself on a slab, surrounded by visions of his shipmates, who tell him that life is irrelevant and that he knows what he has to do.\n\nConvinced that his existence is meaningless and that his life has no purpose, Neelix decides to commit suicide by transporting himself into the nebula. Despite the attempts of his shipmates, Neelix prepares to beam off until Ensign Samantha Wildman arrives to ask Neelix if he could console Naomi, who believes she saw a monster in the replicator and who will only allow Neelix to tuck her in. Realizing that he does, indeed, have purpose in his life, Neelix relents and heads for the Wildmans' quarters. Once there, Naomi, who had heard that Neelix was sick, wonders if a monster had got him. \"Yes\", Neelix replies, \"But I chased him away.\"\n\nIn this episode, Neelix's religious faith is seriously challenged; he eventually chooses to live without it. Chakotay serves as a counterpoint to his perspective, encouraging Neelix not to abandon all faith. In \"Star Trek: The Human Frontier\", Michèle and Duncan Barrett discuss this episode as an example of Star Trek's shifting attitudes towards religion, specifically \"Voyager\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s treatment of religious faith and how it can change. The Barretts contrast this episode with \",\" in which the rationalist Captain Janeway (Kate Mulgrew) is forced to accept the possibility of forces outside rational explanation. Both episodes are considered as illustrations of how \"Star Trek articulates the conflicts between religion and science that continue to recur in modern western thought.\"\n\nEthan Phillips, who plays Neelix, said he felt the episode was the most rewarding of the show for him, and that it was one of his favorites. \"I thought that was a beautiful show,\" he said, \"It was very existential [...] and very well directed by Allan Kroeker.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "7723826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7723826", "title": "Mortal Error", "text": "Mortal Error\n\nMortal Error: The Shot That Killed JFK is a 1992 non-fiction book by Bonar Menninger outlining a theory by sharpshooter, gunsmith and ballistics expert Howard Donahue that a Secret Service agent accidentally fired the shot that actually killed President John F. Kennedy. \"Mortal Error\" was published by St Martin's Press in hardback, paperback, and audiobook.\n\nMenninger is also the author of \"And Hell Followed With It: Life and Death in a Kansas Tornado\", which won a Kansas Notable Book Award in 2011.\n\nDonahue first became interested in the story of the assassination of John F. Kennedy after participating in a re-creation of the shooting as one of eleven invited marksmen and sharpshooters. He demonstrated that it would have been possible for Lee Harvey Oswald to have fired three shots in the time specified by the Warren Commission, and was the only one of the eleven to better the 5.6-second window. However the experience highlighted to Donahue other concerns regarding the Warren report, and in particular the fact that the testimony of ballistics experts seemed to have been completely omitted from the Commission's evidence gathering.\n\nConducting his own investigation, Donahue eventually decided that the bullet that struck Kennedy in the head had in fact been fired by United States Secret Service Special Agent George Warren Hickey Jr. (March 24, 1923 to February 25, 2005) from an AR-15 rifle carried in the car immediately following the President's vehicle. The series of events is as follows: After the first shot which hit the street was fired, Hickey turns completely around and acquires Oswald on the sixth floor of the school book depository building. His turned head is documented in an AP photograph by James Altgens. Hickey reaches for the AR-15 under the seat, releases the safety and begins to lift the gun. The second shot is fired by Oswald, hitting the president and Texas Governor John Connally. The president's car and the follow-up car containing Hickey suddenly speed up. This is attested to by Secret Service agent Clint Hill. Agent Hickey, who is unstable because he is standing on the cushion of the seat, rather than the floor of the car, begins to fall back due to the acceleration of the vehicle, pulling the trigger of the AR-15. The gun is pointed toward Kennedy at that instant, and the bullet strikes him squarely in the back of the head.\n\nIn parallel, he believes Oswald's second shot through Kennedy's neck may have already critically wounded the president before the third shot was fired.\n\nDonahue was encouraged in his investigations by Ralph Reppert, a reporter for the \"Baltimore Sun\". In 1977, Reppert published Donahue's theory in two articles, which appeared on Sunday, May 1, and the following Sunday, with the second article accompanied by an editorial. These two men were keen to collaborate on a book on the subject, but this was cut short by Reppert's ill health and subsequent death. Donahue later also approached author John Davis in the hope that a book would still be written. The original copyright of Mortal Error read \"Copyright 1992 Bonar Menninger and Howard Donahue\" but some later editions did not mention Donahue's copyright. The \"Acknowledgements\" section (dated January 21, 1992) begins \"Special thanks to Nick Beltrante for a great news tip, the late Ralph Reppert for showing the way, Howard and Katie Donahue for casting their lot with me...\".\n\nDonahue's reconstruction of the trajectories of the shots that struck Kennedy and Governor Connally supported the single-bullet theory for the second shot. Donahue decided that the impossible trajectory suggested by the Warren Commission was only necessary because there was an error in their positioning of Connally. He also concluded that this was Oswald's second shot, the first having missed owing to the misalignment of the rifle's telescopic sight but with a ricochet fragment slightly wounding Kennedy, and that Oswald had not fired a third shot, the third cartridge case found at the scene having been a slightly bent and empty one kept in the rifle's chamber.\n\nNeither Donahue nor Menninger commented on whether the Warren Commission's key finding, that Oswald acted alone, was correct or not. Menninger notes that the theory is consistent with Oswald being involved in a conspiracy. The term \"cover-up\" is mentioned in the book, rather than \"conspiracy\".\n\nThe book takes the overall form of a narrative, in which Menninger describes Donahue's enquiries over twenty-five years.\n\nChapter 1, \"A Chance Telephone Call\", describes the events that led to Donahue's interest in the assassination, and a brief biography up until that point.\n\nChapters 2 and 3, \"The Warren Report\" and \"The Critics\", then give the context and summary of the report, and a detailed summary of its critics as of 1968.\n\nChapter 4, \"The Single Bullet Theory\" presents Donahue's analysis of the shot which, according to the Warren Commission, struck both Kennedy and Connally, and suggests that the \"magic bullet\" trajectory is only necessary because the estimated position of the Governor was wrong. One of Oswald's shots could therefore have caused both men's injuries as claimed, but there remain other unanswered questions.\n\nChapter 5, \"The Head Shot\" describes Donahue's analysis of the shot that hit Kennedy in the head, using the Warren Commission evidence (particularly the official autopsy report), stills from the Zapruder film and other photos, and holes drilled in a plaster skull. Numerous questions arise surrounding the completeness and even accuracy of the autopsy report.\n\nChapter 6, \"A Fortuitous Encounter\", describes Donahue's first correspondence with the Secret Service, and reviews the conclusions that led to his approaching them.\n\nHe then by chance meets Dr. Russell Fisher, who led the Clark Panel which reviewed the autopsy in 1968, and who provides a copy of its report and many insights into details of the autopsy report and problems with the material provided to the panel. The suspicion of an accidental discharge by a Secret Service agent grows.\n\nChapter 7, \"Kennedy's Unknown Wound\", describes Donahue's conclusion that Kennedy suffered a scalp wound from a ricochet fragment from Oswald's first shot, using the material provided by Fisher. This resolves some problems with the timing of the reactions of Kennedy and Connally.\n\nChapter 8, \"Murphy's Law\", resumes the story of Donahue's career as his expertise and reputation as an expert witness grows.\n\nChapter 9, \"The Discovery\", describes more of Donahue's career, and his discovery of a photo showing a Secret Service agent holding a weapon that could have produced the kind of wound Kennedy suffered (the photo eventually used on the cover of the book). This revives his interest in publishing an article on his findings.\n\nChapter 10, \"Breaking News\", describes the first publication of Donahue's conclusions in articles by Ralph Reppert, and attempts to contact Hickey. Questions are asked regarding the nature of the cover-up, and particularly about whether Robert Kennedy was involved in it.\n\nChapters 11 to 13 describe Donahue's experiences with the United States House Select Committee on Assassinations.\n\nChapter 14, \"The AR-15\", describes the ill health and death of Reppert, the reporter who wrote the articles that broke the story, which ends their proposed collaboration on a book on Donahue's theory and puts the book proposal on hold. The story of the AR-15 is told, with comparisons to the M-1, AK-47, M-14 and M-16, and some very critical assessments of the adoption of the M-14 and M-16.\n\nChapter 15, \"The Final Breakthrough\", presents more ballistics, especially estimating the size of the head shot entry wound and its relevance. John Davis, another possible author for the book, is contacted and is at first enthusiastic. Howard gives up his Masters studies in forensics but becomes increasingly employed as an expert witness despite this.\n\nChapter 16, \"Hope Dies Hard\", gives a brief history of the Secret Service, their nightmare assignment guarding Kennedy, and their reaction to the shooting. There follows Hickey's involvement in the Warren Commission and statements by him and other agents. Donahue's conversation with one notable conspiracy theorist is also described.\n\nChapter 17, \"Today\", is a recap as of spring 1991, describing reactions from Secret Service agents and others to the theory, and more attempts to contact Hickey.\n\nAn afterword headed \"Note from the Publisher\" describes more attempts to contact Hickey, and to discuss the theory with the Secret Service and others, and why the decision to publish the book was taken.\n\nThere are several appendices:\n\nFinally, there are chapter by chapter endnotes giving sources and their bibliographic details, and an index.\n\nReaction to \"Mortal Error\" has been mixed. James Balducki of the Associated Press cited that Donahue's \"scrupulousness\" made his theory of the JFK assassination plausible. Balducki praised the book, saying \"Menninger interprets the story with a sharpness and fluidity that never unravels amid the surge of detail\". David Pietrusza called Donahue's theory unusual due to him not tying the assassination to Mafia, CIA, or FBI, but that there were \"still problems with Donahue's theory\". The Hamilton Spectator criticized \"Mortal Error\" as \"missing the mark\".\n\nPre-publication orders topped 100,000, but the book caused little impact at the time. Menninger commented in 2013 that this might be because Donahue's theory was \"equally disliked by both conspiracy theorists and supporters of the Warren Commission.\"\n\nHoward Donahue died in 1999. In \"The Smoking Gun\" documentary, his daughter Colleen Donahue Lorenzen remembers her father being surprised that his work aroused so little interest.\n\nAt the time of his death, Donahue was working on another book on the same topic.\n\nIn 2013, Australian journalist and former police detective Colin McLaren published a book and documentary both titled \"\", examining and supporting Donahue's theory.\n\nPrior to the publication of the book in 1992, both the publisher and the author contacted Hickey to invite his participation in the book and offering him a chance to respond to the allegations. In 1995 Hickey sued St. Martin's Press over the claims made in \"Mortal Error\". The suit was eventually dismissed in 1997 on the grounds that Hickey had waited too long after the book's initial publication to file against the publisher. Hickey refiled suit when the paper-back edition was published, and later settled with St Martin's Press in 1998 on undisclosed terms.\n\nSources state that Hickey died in either 2005 or 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46229449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46229449", "title": "Natalia Alyakina", "text": "Natalia Alyakina\n\nNatalya Alyakina-Mroszek (ca. 1955–17 June 1995), often transliterated as Natalia, was a Russian broadcast journalist, who was working for the German radio news agency Rufa Rundfunk-Agenturdienste and \"Focus\" magazine, in Budyonnovsk, Russia when she was killed during the First Chechen War.\n\nNatalya Alyakina-Mroszek was 40 years old when she was killed. She was married to Gisbert Mrozek, sometimes spelled Gizbert, who was also a working journalist for Rufa.\n\nWhile passing through an Army checkpoint in route to cover a mass hostage situation on July 29, 1994, Natalya Alyakina-Mroszek and the driver of the car were shot at by a Russian soldier. Her husband, Gisbert Mrozek was also present in the car but he was uninjured. Alyakina-Mroszek died minutes later from a gun shot wound to the neck.\n\nImmediately after the incident, a Russian judge ordered an investigation into premeditated murder. The Russian soldier was later found guilty of negligence in his use of his weapons, but a judge suspended his sentence as Chechen war participant.\n\n"}
{"id": "627496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627496", "title": "Nonviolent Communication", "text": "Nonviolent Communication\n\nNonviolent Communication (abbreviated NVC, also called Compassionate Communication or Collaborative Communication) is an approach to nonviolent living developed by Marshall Rosenberg beginning in the 1960s. It is based on the idea that all human beings have the capacity for compassion and only resort to violence or behavior that harms themselves and others when they do not recognize more effective strategies for meeting needs. Habits of thinking and speaking that lead to the use of violence (social, psychological and physical) are learned through culture. NVC theory supposes all human behavior stems from attempts to meet universal human needs and that these needs are never in conflict. Rather, conflict arises when strategies for meeting needs clash. NVC proposes that people identify shared needs, revealed by the thoughts and feelings that surround these needs, and collaborate to develop strategies that meet them. This creates both harmony and learning for future cooperation.\n\nNVC supports change on three interconnected levels: with self, with others, and with groups and social systems. As such it is particularly present in the areas of personal development, relationships, and social change. NVC is ostensibly taught as a process of interpersonal communication designed to improve compassionate connection to others. However, due to its far-reaching impact it has also been interpreted as a spiritual practice, a set of values, a parenting technique, a method of social change, a mediation tool, an educational orientation, and a worldview.\n\nNVC has been applied in organizational and business settings,\nin parenting,\nin education, in mediation, in psychotherapy, in healthcare, in addressing eating issues, in justice,\nand as a basis for a children's book,\namong other contexts.\n\nRosenberg related ways he used Nonviolent Communication in peace programs in conflict zones including Rwanda, Burundi, Nigeria, Malaysia, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Colombia, Serbia, Croatia, Ireland, and the Middle East including the Palestinian Territories.\n\nAccording to a biography of Rosenberg on the Center for Nonviolent Communication (CNVC) website, Nonviolent Communication training evolved from his search for a way to rapidly disseminate peacemaking skills. CNVC says that NVC emerged from work he was doing with civil rights activists in the early 1960s, and that during this period he also mediated between rioting students and college administrators, and worked to peacefully desegregate public schools in long-segregated regions.\n\nA master's thesis by Marion Little (2008) says that the roots of the NVC model developed in the late 1960s, when Rosenberg was working on racial integration in schools and organizations in the Southern United States. The earliest version of the model (observations, feelings, and action-oriented wants) was part of a training manual Rosenberg prepared in 1972. The model had evolved to its present form (observations, feelings, needs and requests) by 1992. The dialog between Rosenberg and NVC colleagues and trainers continued to influence the model, which by the late 2000s put more emphasis on \"self-empathy\" as a key to the model's effectiveness. Another shift in emphasis, since 2000, has been the reference to the model as a \"process\". The focus is thus less on the \"steps\" themselves and more on the practitioner's \"intentions\" in speaking (\"Is the intent to get others to do what one wants, or to foster more meaningful relationships and mutual satisfaction?\") in listening (\"Is the intent to prepare for what one has to say, or to extend heartfelt, respectful attentiveness to another?\") and the quality of connection experienced with others.\n\nAlso according to Little's thesis, Rosenberg's work with Carl Rogers on research to investigate the necessary and sufficient conditions of a therapeutic relationship was central to the development of NVC. Rogers emphasized: 1) experiential learning, 2) \"frankness about one's emotional state,\" 3) the satisfaction of hearing others \"in a way that resonates for them,\" 4) the enriching and encouraging experience of \"creative, active, sensitive, accurate, empathic listening,\" 5) the \"deep value of congruence between one's own inner experience, one's conscious awareness, and one's communication,\" and, subsequently, 6) the enlivening experience of unconditionally receiving love or appreciation and extending the same.\n\nLittle says Rosenberg was influenced by Erich Fromm, George Albee, and George Miller to adopt a community focus in his work, moving away from clinical psychological practice. The central ideas influencing this shift by Rosenberg were that: (1) individual mental health depends on the social structure of a community (Fromm), (2) therapists alone are unable to meet the psychological needs of a community (Albee), and (3) knowledge about human behavior will increase if psychology is freely given to the community (Miller).\n\nAccording to Little, Rosenberg's early work with children with learning disabilities shows his interest in psycholinguistics and the power of language, as well as his emphasis on collaboration. In its initial development, the NVC model re-structured the pupil-teacher relationship to give students greater responsibility for, and decision-making related to, their own learning. The model has evolved over the years to incorporate institutional power relationships (i.e., police-citizen, boss-employee) and informal ones (i.e. man-woman, rich-poor, adult-youth, parent-child). The ultimate aim is to develop societal relationships based on a restorative, \"partnership\" paradigm and mutual respect, rather than a retributive, fear-based, \"domination\" paradigm.\n\nLittle also says Rosenberg identified Mahatma Gandhi as an inspiration for the NVC model, and that Rosenberg's goal was to develop a practical process for interaction rooted in the philosophy of Ahimsa, which Little translates as \"the overflowing love that arises when all ill-will, anger, and hate have subsided from the heart.\"\n\nIn order to show the differences between communication styles, Rosenberg started to use two animals. Violent communication was represented by the carnivorous Jackal as a symbol of aggression and especially dominance. The herbivorous Giraffe on the other hand, represented his NVC strategy. The Giraffe was chosen as symbol for NVC as its long neck is supposed to show the clear-sighted speaker, being aware of his fellow speakers' reactions; and because the Giraffe has a large heart, representing the compassionate side of NVC. In his courses he tended to use these animals in order to make the differences in communication clearer to the audience.\n\nNonviolent Communication holds that most conflicts between individuals or groups arise from miscommunication about their human needs, due to coercive or manipulative language that aims to induce fear, guilt, shame, etc. These \"violent\" modes of communication, when used during a conflict, divert the attention of the participants away from clarifying their needs, their feelings, their perceptions, and their requests, thus perpetuating the conflict.\n\nMarshall Rosenberg, the founder of Nonviolent Communication, published numerous training materials to help in efforts to bring about radical social change. He was concerned with transforming the \"gangs and domination structures\" through the method he called \"ask, ask, ask\". He suggested social change activists could focus on gaining access to those in power in order to \"ask, ask, ask\" for changes that will make life better for all including the powerful. He wrote about the need for the protective use of force, distinguishing it from the punitive use of force.\n\nTwo NVC trainers characterize the assumptions underlying NVC as follows:\n\nThe trainers also say that practicing NVC involves having the following intentions:\n\nRosenberg says that certain ways of communicating tend to alienate people from the experience of compassion:\n\nRosenberg invites NVC practitioners to focus attention on four components:\n\nThere are three primary modes of application of NVC:\n\nAs of 2008, NVC was said to lack significant \"longitudinal analytical research,\" and few studies had evaluated the effectiveness of NVC training programs. There had been little discussion of NVC in academic contexts, and most evidence for the effectiveness of NVC was said to be anecdotal or based on theoretical support. Since that time, the number of publications reporting research on NVC has more than doubled.\n\nCarme Juncadella produced a systematic review of research as of 2013 related to the impact of NVC on the development of empathy. She found 13 studies which met her inclusion criteria (three were published in peer reviewed journals; ten were unpublished theses or researcher reports). Eleven of these suggested an increase in empathy subsequent to the application of NVC (five of these with evidence of statistical significance) and two did not. Juncadella notes several shortcomings of her review. None of the studies she included were randomized and only three used validated instruments. As a result she used a narrative synthesis review format, which, \"lacks precision,\" but allows the summarization of studies of different types, sizes, outcome measures and aims. She suggests the primary limitation of her review is that a number of relevant studies exist that could not be included due to lack of availability. She suggests these might have significantly altered her results. Finally, she includes the following caveat: \"I must mention the inevitable subjectivity bias present throughout the whole review. In spite of the efforts made towards 'disciplined subjectivity'... my decisions show a degree of uncertainty and inaccuracy born via the tension between the weak evidence of the studies and my own convictions about the NVC model.\" Her overall assessment of the current research on NVC's efficacy in promoting the development of empathy is that the results are promising, but \"would need to be confirmed with further studies bearing stronger designs and more appropriate measures.\" She notes that a major shortcoming of the existing research is the \"mismatch between the constructs of the model and the validated empathy measures\" and suggests that improved instruments need to be developed to adequately test NVC.\n\nAs of 2017, fifteen master's theses and doctoral dissertations are known to have tested the model on sample sizes of 108 or smaller and generally have found the model to be effective.\n\nAllan Rohlfs, who first met Rosenberg in 1972 and was a founder of the Center for Nonviolent Communication, in 2011 explained a paucity of academic literature as follows:\nVirtually all conflict resolution programs have an academic setting as their foundation and therefore have empirical studies by graduate students assessing their efficacy. NVC is remarkable for its roots. Marshall Rosenberg, Ph.D. (clinical psychology, U of Wisconsin) comes from a full time private practice in clinical psychology and consultation, never an academic post. NVC, his creation, is entirely a grassroots organization and never had until recently any foundation nor grant monies, on the contrary funded 100% from trainings which were offered in public workshops around the world. ... Empirical data is now coming slowly as independent researchers find their own funding to conduct and publish empirical studies with peer review.\n\nRichard Bowers' master's thesis (2012), updated to book form by Bowers and Moffett (2012), asserts that NVC has been absent from academic programs due to a lack of research into the theoretical basis for the model and lack of research on the reliability of positive results. Bowers' thesis meets the first objection through an analysis of existing theories which provide solid support for each element of the NVC (mediation) model. Without this theoretical understanding, it would not be clear what aspects of the NVC model make it work or even if it can be effectively applied by anyone other than Marshall Rosenberg. This theoretical analysis can provide a foundation for further empirical research on the effectiveness and reliability of the model.\n\nConnor and Wentworth examined the impact of 6-months of NVC training and coaching on 23 executives in a Fortune 100 corporation. A variety of benefits were reported, including \"conversations and meetings were notably more efficient, with issues being resolved in 50-80 percent less time.\"\n\nNVC has reportedly been an element of a bundle of interventions that produced dramatic changes in forensic psychiatric nursing settings in which a high level of violence is the norm. NVC was adopted, in combination with other interventions, in an effort to reduce violence. The interventions were said to reduce key violence indicators by 90 percent over a three-year period in a medium security unit, and by around 50 percent in a single year in a maximum security unit.\n\nA 2014 study examined the effects of combined NVC and mindfulness training on 885 male inmates of the Monroe Correctional Complex in Monroe, Washington. The training was found to reduce recidivism from 37% to 21%, and the training was estimated as having saved the state $5 million per year in reduced incarceration costs. The training was found to increase equanimity, decrease anger, and lead to abilities to take responsibility for one's feelings, express empathy, and to make requests without imposing demands.\n\nNVC has also been reported as effective in reducing domestic violence. Male participants who graduated from an NVC-based batterer intervention program in California had zero percent recidivism within 5 years, according to the relevant District Attorneys' offices. The news report contrasted this with a recidivism rate of 40 percent within 5 years as reported by the Domestic Abuse Intervention Project for graduates of their batterer intervention program based on the Duluth Model, said to previously offer the lowest known domestic violence recidivism rate.\n\nBowers and Moffett provide a thoughtful study of the important role of empathy and human needs in mediation through the development of a theoretical model to explain the effectiveness of NVC mediation. The authors present theories of human needs and the basis for a common core of needs. They discuss theories that explain the importance of understanding human needs in the context of conflict resolution. They clearly distinguish core human needs from interests (strategies) and how focusing on needs is a paradigm shift in the field of conflict resolution. Further, Bowers and Moffett present theories of empathy\nfrom the pioneering work of Carl Rogers, Heinz Kohut, and others. Empathy is distinguished from sympathy and active listening, pointing out how the word empathy is often confused in the literature by using it interchangeably with these other two terms. They also examine stage theories of the development of empathy as well as constructive-developmental theories related to empathy.\n\nSome recent research appears to validate the existence of universal human needs.\n\nAs Theresa Latini notes, \"Rosenberg understands NVC to be a fundamentally spiritual practice.\" Marshall Rosenberg describes the influence of his spiritual life on the development and practice of NVC:\n\nI think it is important that people see that spirituality is at the base of Nonviolent Communication, and that they learn the mechanics of the process with that in mind. It's really a spiritual practice that I am trying to show as a way of life. Even though we don't mention this, people get seduced by the practice. Even if they practice this as a mechanical technique, they start to experience things between themselves and other people they weren't able to experience before. So eventually they come to the spirituality of the process. They begin to see that it's more than a communication process and realize it's really an attempt to manifest a certain spirituality.\n\nRosenberg further states that he developed NVC as a way to \"get conscious of\" what he calls the \"Beloved Divine Energy\".\n\nSome Christians have found NVC to be complementary to their Christian faith.\nMany people have found Nonviolent Communication to be very complementary to Buddhism, both in theory and in manifesting Buddhist ideals in practice.\n\nMarion Little examines theoretical frameworks related to NVC. The influential interest-based model for conflict resolution, negotiation, and mediation developed by Fisher, Ury, and Patton at the Harvard Negotiation Project and at the Program on Negotiation in the 1980s appears to have some conceptual overlap with NVC, although neither model references the other. Little suggests The Gordon Model for Effective Relationships (1970) as a likely precursor to both NVC and interest-based negotiation, based on conceptual similarities, if not any direct evidence of a connection. Like Rosenberg, Gordon had worked with Carl Rogers, so the models' similarities may reflect common influences.\n\nSuzanne Jones sees a substantive difference between active listening as originated by Gordon and empathic listening as recommended by Rosenberg, insofar as active listening involves a specific step of reflecting what a speaker said to let them know you are listening, whereas empathic listening involves an ongoing process of listening with both heart and mind and being fully present to the other's experience, with an aim of comprehending and empathizing with the needs of the other, the meaning of the experience for that person.\n\nGert Danielsen and Havva Kök both note an overlap between the premises of NVC and those of Human Needs Theory (HNT), an academic model for understanding the sources of conflict and designing conflict resolution processes, with the idea that \"Violence occurs when certain individuals or groups do not see any other way to meet their need, or when they need understanding, respect and consideration for their needs.\"\n\nChapman Flack sees an overlap between what Rosenberg advocates and critical thinking, especially Bertrand Russell's formulation uniting kindness and clear thinking.\n\nMartha Lasley sees similarities with the Focused Conversation Method developed by the Institute of Cultural Affairs (ICA), with NVC's \"observations\", \"feelings\", \"needs\", and \"requests\" components relating to FCM's \"objective\", \"reflective\", \"interpretive\", and \"decisional\" stages.\n\nAs of 2008, some researchers noted that NVC lacked an evidence base beyond the copious anecdotal claims of effectiveness and similarly lacked discussion in the literature of the theoretical basis of the model.\n\nSeveral researchers have attempted a thorough evaluation of criticisms and weaknesses of NVC and assessed significant challenges in its application. These span a range of potential problems, from the practical to the theoretical, and include concerns gathered from study participants and researchers.\n\nThe difficulty of using NVC as well as the dangers of misuse are common concerns. In addition, Bitschnau and Flack find a paradoxical potential for violence in the use of NVC, occasioned by its unskilled use. Bitschnau further suggests that the use of NVC is unlikely to allow everyone to express their feelings and have their needs met in real life as this would require inordinate time, patience and discipline. Those who are skilled in the use of NVC may become prejudiced against those who are not and prefer to converse only among themselves.\n\nOboth suggests that people might hide their feelings in the process of empathy, subverting the nonviolence of communication.\n\nThe massive investment of time and effort in learning to use NVC has been noted by a number of researchers.\n\nChapman Flack, in reviewing a training video by Rosenberg, finds the presentation of key ideas \"spell-binding\" and the anecdotes \"humbling and inspiring\", notes the \"beauty of his work\", and his \"adroitly doing fine attentive thinking\" when interacting with his audience. Yet Flack wonders what to make of aspects of Rosenberg's presentation, such as his apparent \"dim view of the place for thinking\" and his building on Walter Wink's account of the origins of our way of thinking. To Flack, some elements of what Rosenberg says seem like pat answers at odds with the challenging and complex picture of human nature history, literature and art offer.\n\nFlack notes a distinction between the \"strong sense\" of Nonviolent Communication as a virtue that is possible with care and attention, and the \"weak sense,\" a mimicry of this born of ego and haste. The strong sense offers a language to examine one's thinking and actions, support understanding, bring one's best to the community, and honor one's emotions. In the weak sense, one may take the language as rules and use these to score debating points, label others for political gain, or insist that others express themselves in this way. Though concerned that some of what Rosenberg says could lead to the weak sense, Flack sees evidence confirming that Rosenberg understands the strong sense in practice. Rosenberg's work with workshop attendees demonstrates \"the real thing.\" Yet Flack warns that \"the temptation of the weak sense will not be absent.\" As an antidote, Flack advises, \"Be conservative in what you do, be liberal in what you accept from others,\" (also known as the robustness principle) and guard against the \"metamorphosis of nonviolent communication into subtle violence done in its name.\"\n\nEllen Gorsevski, assessing Rosenberg's book, \"Nonviolent Communication: A Language of Compassion\" (1999) in the context of geopolitical rhetoric, states that \"the relative strength of the individual is vastly overestimated while the key issue of structural violence is almost completely ignored.\"\n\nPuddleDancer Press reports that NVC has been endorsed by a variety of public figures.\n\nSven Hartenstein has created a series of cartoons spoofing NVC.\n\nReportedly, one of the first acts of Satya Nadella when he became CEO of Microsoft in 2014 was to ask top company executives to read Rosenberg's book, \"Nonviolent Communication.\"\n\nThe Center for Nonviolent Communication (CNVC), founded by Marshall Rosenberg, has trademarked the terms \"NVC\", \"Nonviolent Communication\" and \"Compassionate Communication\", among other terms, for clarity and branding purposes.\n\nCNVC certifies trainers who wish to teach NVC in a manner aligned with CNVC's understanding of the NVC process. CNVC also offers trainings by certified trainers.\n\nSome trainings in Nonviolent Communication are offered by trainers sponsored by organizations considered as allied with, but having no formal relationship with, the Center for Nonviolent Communication founded by Marshall Rosenberg. Some of these trainings are announced through CNVC. Numerous NVC organizations have sprung up around the world, many with regional focuses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2857411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2857411", "title": "Norman Packard", "text": "Norman Packard\n\nNorman Harry Packard (born 1954 in Billings, Montana) is a chaos theory physicist and one of the founders of the Prediction Company and ProtoLife. He is an alumnus of Reed College and the University of California, Santa Cruz. Packard is known for his contributions to both chaos theory and cellular automata. He also coined the phrase \"the edge of chaos\".\n\nBetween 1976 and 1981, he worked with fellow graduate students in Santa Cruz, California, forming the Eudaemons collective with J. Doyne Farmer and others, to develop a strategy for beating the roulette wheel using a toe-operated computer. The computer could, in theory, predict in what area a roulette ball would land on a wheel, giving the player a significant statistical advantage over the house. Although the project itself was a success, they ran into great practical difficulty employing the technique on-site in Las Vegas casinos, and many of the members left to pursue other fields of academia. The experiences of Norman, Doyne Farmer, and crew were later chronicled in the book \"The Eudaemonic Pie\" (1985) by Thomas Bass. Their experience was also chronicled on the television series \"Breaking Vegas.\"\n\nAround the same time, he formed the Dynamical Systems Collective with friends Rob Shaw, Doyne Farmer, and James Crutchfield. The collective was best known for its work in probing chaotic systems for signs of order.\n\nIn 1982, Packard left Santa Cruz for France to take a post-doctoral fellowship at the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques in Bures-sur-Yvette, France. He left after one year and joined the Institute for Advanced Study. At the IAS, he worked with Stephen Wolfram and friend Rob Shaw to explain cellular automata and the tendency for matter to organize itself.\n\nin 1985 Packard moved with Wolfram to the physics department of University of Illinois, where he eventually became an associate professor, and where he was a founding member of the Center for Complex Systems Research.\n\nPackard was involved with the Santa Fe Institute over many years, in several capacities including external professor and member of the science steering committee.\n\nIn the spring of 1985, Packard and Doyne Farmer realized that their research in fields such as chaos, Genetic Algorithms and cellular automata could help build a system for predicting the stock market. Five years later they founded Prediction Company, a small company dedicated to making a model for predicting what a market would do during a certain time period. A brief outline of some of the genetic algorithm techniques he used in the early days is presented in chapter 2 of reference 5 below. In 2004, Prediction Company received the \"Employer of Choice\" award in the small size category for the State of New Mexico. The company still exists today as a subsidiary of Swiss bank UBS AG.\n\nPackard was one of the founders of the European Center for Living Technology (ECLT), hosted by the University of Venice, Ca' Foscari. The ECLT received its first funding from PACE (Programmable Artificial Cell Evolution), a project coordinated by John S. McCaskill and funded by the European Union. From its inception in 2004 and for over a decade Packard has served on its science board, and as co-director.\n\nIn 2004, Packard founded ProtoLife, the first company to capitalize on living technology. The goal of the company is to optimize complex chemical reactions and other complex processes. The company was launched in Venice, Italy, and is currently based in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2011 Packard joined Lucky Sort as Chief Science Officer. At Lucky Sort he guides research to discover and display structure in high volume text data streams.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8610048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8610048", "title": "Paternal age effect", "text": "Paternal age effect\n\nThe paternal age effect is the statistical relationship between paternal age at conception and biological effects on the child. Such effects can relate to birthweight, congenital disorders, life expectancy, and psychological outcomes. A 2017 review found that while severe health effects are associated with higher paternal age, the total increase in problems caused by paternal age is low. While paternal age has increased since 1960-1970 this is not seen as a major public health concern.\n\nThe genetic quality of sperm, as well as its volume and motility, all may decrease with age, leading the population geneticist James F. Crow to claim that the \"greatest mutational health hazard to the human genome is fertile older males\".\n\nThe paternal age effect was first proposed implicitly by Weinberg in 1912, and explicitly by Penrose in 1955. DNA-based research started more recently, in 1998, in the context of paternity testing.\n\nEvidence for a paternal age effect has been proposed for a number of conditions, diseases and other effects. In many of these, the statistical evidence of association is weak, and the association may be related by confounding factors, or behavioural differences. Conditions proposed to show correlation with paternal age include the following:\n\nAdvanced paternal age may be associated with a higher risk for certain single-gene disorders caused by mutations of the FGFR2, FGFR3, and RET genes. These conditions are Apert syndrome, Crouzon syndrome, Pfeiffer syndrome, achondroplasia, thanatophoric dysplasia, multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2, and multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2b. The most significant effect concerns achondroplasia (a form of dwarfism), which might occur in about 1 in 1,875 children fathered by men over 50, compared to 1 in 15,000 in the general population. However, the risk for achondroplasia is still considered clinically negligible. The FGFR genes may be particularly prone to a paternal age effect due to selfish spermatogonial selection, whereby the influence of spermatogonial mutations in older men is enhanced because cells with certain mutations have a selective advantage over other cells (see § DNA mutations).\n\nSeveral studies have reported that advanced paternal age is associated with an increased risk of miscarriage. The strength of the association differs between studies. It has been suggested that these miscarriages are caused by chromosome abnormalities in the sperm of aging men. An increased risk for stillbirth has also been suggested for pregnancies fathered by men over 45.\n\nA systematic review published in 2010 concluded that the graph of the risk of low birthweight in infants with paternal age is \"saucer-shaped\" (U-shaped); that is, the highest risks occur at low and at high paternal ages. Compared with a paternal age of 25–28 years as a reference group, the odds ratio for low birthweight was approximately 1.1 at a paternal age of 20 and approximately 1.2 at a paternal age of 50. There was no association of paternal age with preterm births or with small for gestational age births.\n\nSchizophrenia is thought by some to be associated with advanced paternal age but it is not proven. Some studies examining autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and advanced paternal age have demonstrated an association between the two, although there also appears to be an increase with maternal age.\n\nIn one study the risk of bipolar disorder, particularly for early-onset disease, is J-shaped, with the lowest risk for children of 20- to 24-year-old fathers, a twofold risk for younger fathers, and a threefold risk for fathers >50 years old. There is no similar relationship with maternal age.\n\nA 2017 review concluded that the vast majority of studies supported a relationship between older paternal age and autism and schizophrenia, but that there is less convincing and also inconsistent evidence for associations with other psychiatric illnesses.\n\nA 2016 review concluded that the mechanism behind the reported associations was still not clear, with evidence both for selection of individuals liable to psychiatric illness into late fatherhood and evidence for causative mutations. The mechanisms under discussion are not mutually exclusive.\n\nPaternal age may be associated with an increased risk of breast cancer, but the association is weak and there are confounding effects.\n\nAccording to a 2017 review, there is consistent evidence of an increase in incidence of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia with paternal age. Results for associations with other childhood cancers are more mixed (e.g. retinoblastoma) or generally negative.\n\nHigh paternal age has been suggested as a risk factor for type 1 diabetes, but research findings are inconsistent, and a clear association has not been established.\n\nIt appears that a paternal-age effect might exist with respect to Down syndrome, but it is very small in comparison to the maternal-age effect.\n\nA review 2005 found a U-shaped relationship between paternal age and low intelligence quotients (IQs). The highest IQ was found at paternal ages of 25-44; fathers younger than 25 and older than 44 tended to have children with lower IQs. Malaspina \"et al.\" also reviewed the literature and found that \"at least a half dozen other studies ... have demonstrated significant associations between paternal age and human intelligence.\"\n\nA 2009 study examined children at 8 months, 4 years, and 7 years and found that paternal age was associated with poorer scores in almost all neurocognitive tests used, but that maternal age was associated with better scores on the same tests. An editorial accompanying the paper emphasized the importance of controlling for socioeconomic status in studies of paternal age and intelligence. A 2010 paper from Spain provided further evidence that average paternal age is elevated in cases of intellectual disability.\n\nLater research concluded that previously reported negative associations might be explained by confounding factors, especially parental intelligence and education. A re-analysis of the 2009 study found that the paternal age effect could be explained by adjusting for maternal education and number of siblings. A study of 0.5 million Swedish men adjusted for genetic confounding by comparing brothers and found no association between paternal age and offspring IQ. Another study found a positive association between paternal age and offspring IQ that could be explained by adjusting for parental IQs.\n\nA 2008 paper found a U-shaped association between paternal age and the overall mortality rate in children (i.e., mortality rate up to age 18). Although the relative mortality rates were higher, the absolute numbers were low, because of the relatively low occurrence of genetic abnormality. The study has been criticized for not adjusting for maternal health, which could have a large effect on child mortality. The researchers also found a correlation between paternal age and offspring death by injury or poisoning, indicating the need to control for social and behavioral confounding factors.\n\nIn 2012 a study showed that greater age at paternity tends to increase telomere length in offspring for up to two generations. Since telomere length has effects on health and mortality, this may have effects on health and the rate of aging in these offspring. The authors speculated that this effect may provide a mechanism by which populations have some plasticity in adapting longevity to different social and ecological contexts.\n\nA 2001 review suggested older men have decreased pregnancy rates, increased time to pregnancy, and increased infertility at a given point in time. When controlling for the age of the female partner, comparisons between men under 30 and men over 50 found relative decreases in pregnancy rates between 23% and 38%.\n\nParents do not decide when to reproduce randomly. This implies that paternal age effects may be confounded by social and genetic predictors of reproductive timing.\n\nA simulation study concluded that reported paternal age effects on psychiatric disorders in the epidemiological literature are too large to be explained only by mutations. They conclude that a model in which parents with a genetic liability to psychiatric illness tend to reproduce later better explains the literature.\n\nLater age at parenthood is also associated with a more stable family environment, with older parents being less likely to divorce or change partners. Older parents also tend to occupy a higher socio-economic position and report feeling more devoted to their children and satisfied with their family. On the other hand, the risk of the father dying before the child becomes an adult increases with paternal age.\n\nTo adjust for genetic liability, some studies compare full siblings. Additionally or alternatively, studies statistically adjust for some or all of these confounding factors. Using sibling comparisons or adjusting for more covariates frequently changes the direction or magnitude of paternal age effects. For example, one study drawing on Finnish census data concluded that increases in offspring mortality with paternal age could be explained completely by parental loss. On the other hand, a population-based cohort study drawing on 2.6 million records from Sweden found that risk of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder was only positively associated with paternal age when comparing siblings.\n\nSeveral hypothesized chains of causality exist whereby increased paternal age may lead to health effects. There are different types of genome mutations, with distinct mutation mechanisms: \n\nTelomeres are repetitive genetic sequences at both ends of each chromosome that protect the structure of the chromosome. As men age, most telomeres shorten, but sperm telomeres increase in length. The offspring of older fathers have longer telomeres in both their sperm and white blood cells. A large study showed a positive paternal, but no independent maternal age effect on telomere length. Because the study used twins, it could not compare siblings who were discordant for paternal age. It found that telomere length was 70% heritable.\n\nIn contrast to oogenesis, the production of sperm cells is a lifelong process. Each year after puberty, spermatogonia (precursors of the spermatozoa) divide meiotically about 23 times. By the age of 40, the spermatogonia will have undergone about 660 such divisions, compared to 200 at age 20. Copying errors might sometimes happen during the DNA replication preceding these cell divisions, which may lead to new (\"de novo\") mutations in the sperm DNA.\n\nThe \"selfish spermatogonial selection\" hypothesis proposes that the influence of spermatogonial mutations in older men is further enhanced because cells with certain mutations have a selective advantage over other cells. Such an advantage would allow the mutated cells to increase in number through clonal expansion. In particular, mutations that affect the RAS pathway, which regulates spermatogonial proliferation, appear to offer a competitive advantage to spermatogonial cells, while also leading to diseases associated with paternal age.\n\nThe production of sperm cells involves DNA methylation, an epigenetic process that regulates the expression of genes. Improper genomic imprinting and other errors sometimes occur during this process, which can affect the expression of genes related to certain disorders, increasing the offspring's susceptibility. The frequency of these errors appears to increase with age. This could explain the association between paternal age and schizophrenia.\n\nA 2001 review on variation in semen quality and fertility by male age concluded that older men had lower semen volume, lower sperm motility, and a decreased percent of normal sperm. One common factor is the abnormal regulation of sperm once a mutation arises. It has been seen that once taking place, the mutation will almost always be positively selected for and over time will lead to the mutant sperm replacing all non-mutant sperm. In younger males, this process is corrected and regulated by the growth factor receptor-RAS signal transduction pathway.\n\nA 2014 review indicated that increasing male age is associated with declines in many semen traits, including semen volume and percentage motility. However, this review also found that sperm concentration did not decline as male age increased.\n\nSome classify the paternal age effect as one of two different types. One effect is directly related to advanced paternal age and autosomal mutations in the offspring. The other effect is an indirect effect in relation to mutations on the X chromosome which are passed to daughters who are then at risk for having sons with X-linked diseases.\n\nIn 1912, Wilhelm Weinberg, a German physician, was the first person to hypothesize that non-inherited cases of achondroplasia could be more common in last-born children than in children born earlier to the same set of parents. Weinberg \"made no distinction between paternal age, maternal age and birth order\" in his hypothesis. In 1953, Krooth used the term \"paternal age effect\" in the context of achondroplasia, but mistakenly thought the condition represented a maternal age effect. The paternal age effect for achondroplasia was described by Lionel Penrose in 1955. At a DNA level, the paternal age effect was first reported in 1998 in routine paternity tests.\n\nScientific interest in paternal age effects is relevant because the average paternal age increased in countries such as the United Kingdom, Australia, and Germany, and because birth rates for fathers aged 30–54 years have risen between 1980 and 2006 in the United States. Possible reasons for the increases in average paternal age include increasing life expectancy and increasing rates of divorce and remarriage. Despite recent increases in average paternal age, however, the oldest father documented in the medical literature was born in 1840: George Isaac Hughes was 94 years old at the time of the birth of his son by his second wife, a 1935 article in the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\" stated that his fertility \"has been definitely and affirmatively checked up medically,\" and he fathered a daughter in 1936 at age 96.\nIn 2012, two 96-year-old men, Nanu Ram Jogi and Ramjit Raghav, both from India, claimed to have fathered children that year.\n\nThe American College of Medical Genetics recommends obstetric ultrasonography at 18–20 weeks gestation in cases of advanced paternal age to evaluate fetal development, but it notes that this procedure \"is unlikely to detect many of the conditions of interest.\" They also note that there is no standard definition of \"advanced paternal age\"; it is commonly defined as age 40 or above, but the effect increases linearly with paternal age, rather than appearing at any particular age. According to a 2006 review, any adverse effects of advanced paternal age \"should be weighed up against potential social advantages for children born to older fathers who are more likely to have progressed in their career and to have achieved financial security.\"\n\nGeneticist James F. Crow described mutations that have a direct visible effect on the child's health and also mutations that can be latent or have minor visible effects on the child's health; many such minor or latent mutations allow the child to reproduce, but cause more serious problems for grandchildren, great-grandchildren and later generations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "82974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82974", "title": "Posttraumatic stress disorder", "text": "Posttraumatic stress disorder\n\nPosttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a mental disorder that can develop after a person is exposed to a traumatic event, such as sexual assault, warfare, traffic collisions, or other threats on a person's life. Symptoms may include disturbing thoughts, feelings, or dreams related to the events, mental or physical distress to trauma-related cues, attempts to avoid trauma-related cues, alterations in how a person thinks and feels, and an increase in the fight-or-flight response. These symptoms last for more than a month after the event. Young children are less likely to show distress, but instead may express their memories through play. A person with PTSD is at a higher risk for suicide and intentional self-harm.\nMost people who have experienced a traumatic event will not develop PTSD. People who experience interpersonal trauma (for example rape or child abuse) are more likely to develop PTSD, as compared to people who experience non-assault based trauma, such as accidents and natural disasters. About half of people develop PTSD following rape. Children are less likely than adults to develop PTSD after trauma, especially if they are under 10 years of age. Diagnosis is based on the presence of specific symptoms following a traumatic event.\nPrevention may be possible when counselling is targeted at those with early symptoms but is not effective when provided to all trauma-exposed individuals whether or not symptoms are present. The main treatments for people with PTSD are counselling (psychotherapy) and medication. Antidepressants of the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor type are the first-line medications for PTSD and result in benefit in about half of people. These benefits are less than those seen with counselling. It is unclear if using medications and counselling together has greater benefit. Other medications do not have enough evidence to support their use, and in the case of benzodiazepines, may worsen outcomes.\nIn the United States about 3.5% of adults have PTSD in a given year, and 9% of people develop it at some point in their life. In much of the rest of the world, rates during a given year are between 0.5% and 1%. Higher rates may occur in regions of armed conflict. It is more common in women than men. Symptoms of trauma-related mental disorders have been documented since at least the time of the ancient Greeks. During the World Wars the condition was known under various terms including \"shell shock\" and \"combat neurosis\". The term \"posttraumatic stress disorder\" came into use in the 1970s in large part due to the diagnoses of U.S. military veterans of the Vietnam War. It was officially recognized by the American Psychiatric Association in 1980 in the third edition of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-III).\n\nSymptoms of PTSD generally begin within the first 3 months after the inciting traumatic event, but may not begin until years later. In the typical case, the individual with PTSD persistently avoids trauma-related thoughts and emotions, and discussion of the traumatic event, and may even have amnesia of the event. However, the event is commonly relived by the individual through intrusive, recurrent recollections, dissociative episodes of reliving the trauma (\"flashbacks\"), and nightmares. While it is common to have symptoms after any traumatic event, these must persist to a sufficient degree (i.e., causing dysfunction in life or clinical levels of distress) for longer than one month after the trauma to be classified as PTSD (clinically significant dysfunction or distress for less than one month after the trauma may be acute stress disorder).\n\nTrauma survivors often develop depression, anxiety disorders, and mood disorders in addition to PTSD.\n\nDrug abuse and alcohol abuse commonly co-occur with PTSD. Recovery from posttraumatic stress disorder or other anxiety disorders may be hindered, or the condition worsened, when substance use disorders are comorbid with PTSD. Resolving these problems can bring about improvement in an individual's mental health status and anxiety levels. \n\nIn children and adolescents, there is a strong association between emotional regulation difficulties (e.g. mood swings, anger outbursts, temper tantrums) and post-traumatic stress symptoms, independent of age, gender, or type of trauma.\n\nPersons considered at risk include combat military personnel, victims of natural disasters, concentration camp survivors, and victims of violent crime. Persons employed in occupations that expose them to violence (such as soldiers) or disasters (such as emergency service workers) are also at risk. Other occupations that are at higher risk include police officers, firefighters, ambulance personnel, health care professionals, train drivers, divers, journalists, and sailors, in addition to people who work at banks, post offices or in stores. The size of the hippocampus is inversely related to post-traumatic stress disorder and treatment success; the smaller the hippocampus, the higher risk of PTSD.\n\nPTSD has been associated with a wide range of traumatic events. The risk of developing PTSD after a traumatic event varies by trauma type and is highest following exposure to sexual violence (11.4%), particularly rape (19.0%). Men are more likely to experience a traumatic event, but women are more likely to experience the kind of high-impact traumatic event that can lead to PTSD, such as interpersonal violence and sexual assault.\n\nMotor vehicle collision survivors, both children and adults, are at an increased risk of PTSD. About 20% of children were diagnosed with PTSD following a road traffic accident, compared to 22% of adults. Females were more likely to be diagnosed with PTSD following a road traffic accident, whether the accident occurred during childhood or adulthood.\n\nPosttraumatic stress reactions have not been studied as well in children and adolescents as adults. The rate of PTSD may be lower in children than adults, but in the absence of therapy, symptoms may continue for decades. One estimate suggests that the proportion of children and adolescents having PTSD in a non-wartorn population in a developed country may be 1% compared to 1.5% to 3% of adults, and much lower below the age of 10 years. On average, 16% of children exposed to a traumatic event develop PTSD, varying according to type of exposure and gender. Similar to the adult population, risk factors for PTSD in children include: female gender, exposure to disasters (natural or manmade), negative coping behaviours, and/or lacking proper social support systems.\n\nPredictor models have consistently found that childhood trauma, chronic adversity, and familial stressors increase risk for PTSD as well as risk for biological markers of risk for PTSD after a traumatic event in adulthood. Experiencing bullying as a child or an adult has been correlated with the development of PTSD. Peritraumatic dissociation in children is a predictive indicator of the development of PTSD later in life. This effect of childhood trauma, which is not well understood, may be a marker for both traumatic experiences and attachment problems. Proximity to, duration of, and severity of the trauma make an impact, and interpersonal traumas cause more problems than impersonal ones.\n\nThe risk of developing PTSD is increased in individuals who are exposed to physical abuse, physical assault, or kidnapping. Women who experience physical violence are more likely to develop PTSD than men.\n\nAn individual that has been exposed to domestic violence is predisposed to the development of PTSD. However, being exposed to a traumatic experience does not automatically indicate that an individual will develop PTSD. There is a strong association between the development of PTSD in mothers that experienced domestic violence during the perinatal period of their pregnancy.\n\nThose who have experienced sexual assault or rape may develop symptoms of PTSD. PTSD symptoms include re-experiencing the assault, avoiding things associated with the assault, numbness, and increased anxiety and an increased startle response. The likelihood of sustained symptoms of PTSD is higher if the rapist confined or restrained the person, if the person being raped believed the rapist would kill him or her, the person who was raped was very young or very old, and if the rapist was someone he or she knew. The likelihood of sustained severe symptoms is also higher if people around the survivor ignore (or are ignorant of) the rape or blame the rape survivor.\n\nMilitary service is a risk factor for developing PTSD. Around 78% of people exposed to combat do not develop PTSD; in about 25% of military personnel who develop PTSD, its appearance is delayed.\n\nRefugees are also at an increased risk for PTSD due to their exposure to war, hardships, and traumatic events. The rates for PTSD within refugee populations range from 4% to 86%. While the stresses of war impact everyone involved, displaced persons have been shown to be more affected than nondisplaced persons.\n\nSudden, unexpected death of a loved one is the most common traumatic event type reported in cross-national studies. However, the majority of people who experience this type of event will not go on to develop PTSD. An analysis from the WHO World Mental Health Surveys found a 5.2% risk of developing PTSD after learning of the unexpected death of a loved one. Because of the high prevalence of this type of traumatic event, unexpected death of a loved one accounts for approximately 20% of PTSD cases worldwide.\n\nMedical conditions associated with an increased risk of PTSD include cancer, heart attack, and stroke. 22% of cancer survivors present with lifelong PTSD like symptoms. Intensive-care unit (ICU) hospitalization is also a risk factor for PTSD. Some women experience PTSD from their experiences related to breast cancer and mastectomy. Loved ones of those who experience life-threatening illnesses are also at risk for developing PTSD, such as parents of child with chronic illnesses.\n\nWomen who experience miscarriage are at risk of PTSD. Those who experience subsequent miscarriages have an increased risk of PTSD compared to those experiencing only one. PTSD can also occur after childbirth and the risk increases if a woman has experienced trauma prior to the pregnancy. Prevalence of PTSD following normal childbirth (that is, excluding stillbirth or major complications) is estimated to be between 2.8 and 5.6% at 6 weeks postpartum, with rates dropping to 1.5% at 6 months postpartum. Symptoms of PTSD are common following childbirth, with prevalence of 24-30.1% at 6 weeks, dropping to 13.6% at 6 months. Emergency childbirth is also associated with PTSD. Some women experience PTSD from their experiences related to breast cancer and mastectomy.\n\nThere is evidence that susceptibility to PTSD is hereditary. Approximately 30% of the variance in PTSD is caused from genetics alone. For twin pairs exposed to combat in Vietnam, having a monozygotic (identical) twin with PTSD was associated with an increased risk of the co-twin's having PTSD compared to twins that were dizygotic (non-identical twins). There is evidence that those with a genetically smaller hippocampus are more likely to develop PTSD following a traumatic event. Research has also found that PTSD shares many genetic influences common to other psychiatric disorders. Panic and generalized anxiety disorders and PTSD share 60% of the same genetic variance. Alcohol, nicotine, and drug dependence share greater than 40% genetic similarities.\n\nSeveral biological indicators have been identified that are related to later PTSD development. Heightened startle responses and a smaller hippocampal volume have been identified as biomarkers for the risk of developing PTSD. Additionally, one study found that soldiers whose leukocytes had greater numbers of glucocorticoid receptors were more prone to developing PTSD after experiencing trauma.\n\nPTSD symptoms may result when a traumatic event causes an over-reactive adrenaline response, which creates deep neurological patterns in the brain. These patterns can persist long after the event that triggered the fear, making an individual hyper-responsive to future fearful situations. During traumatic experiences the high levels of stress hormones secreted suppress hypothalamic activity that may be a major factor toward the development of PTSD.\n\nPTSD causes biochemical changes in the brain and body, that differ from other psychiatric disorders such as major depression. Individuals diagnosed with PTSD respond more strongly to a dexamethasone suppression test than individuals diagnosed with clinical depression.\n\nMost people with PTSD show a low secretion of cortisol and high secretion of catecholamines in urine, with a norepinephrine/cortisol ratio consequently higher than comparable non-diagnosed individuals. This is in contrast to the normative fight-or-flight response, in which both catecholamine and cortisol levels are elevated after exposure to a stressor.\n\nBrain catecholamine levels are high, and corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) concentrations are high. Together, these findings suggest abnormality in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis.\n\nThe maintenance of fear has been shown to include the HPA axis, the locus coeruleus-noradrenergic systems, and the connections between the limbic system and frontal cortex. The HPA axis that coordinates the hormonal response to stress, which activates the LC-noradrenergic system, is implicated in the over-consolidation of memories that occurs in the aftermath of trauma. This over-consolidation increases the likelihood of one's developing PTSD. The amygdala is responsible for threat detection and the conditioned and unconditioned fear responses that are carried out as a response to a threat.\n\nThe HPA axis is responsible for coordinating the hormonal response to stress. Given the strong cortisol suppression to dexamethasone in PTSD, HPA axis abnormalities are likely predicated on strong negative feedback inhibition of cortisol, itself likely due to an increased sensitivity of glucocorticoid receptors.\nPTSD has been hypothesized to be a maladaptive learning pathway to fear response through a hypersensitive, hyperreactive, and hyperresponsive HPA axis.\n\nLow cortisol levels may predispose individuals to PTSD: Following war trauma, Swedish soldiers serving in Bosnia and Herzegovina with low pre-service salivary cortisol levels had a higher risk of reacting with PTSD symptoms, following war trauma, than soldiers with normal pre-service levels. Because cortisol is normally important in restoring homeostasis after the stress response, it is thought that trauma survivors with low cortisol experience a poorly contained—that is, longer and more distressing—response, setting the stage for PTSD.\n\nIt is thought that the locus coeruleus-noradrenergic system mediates the over-consolidation of fear memory. High levels of cortisol reduce noradrenergic activity, and because people with PTSD tend to have reduced levels of cortisol, it has been proposed that individuals with PTSD cannot regulate the increased noradrenergic response to traumatic stress. Intrusive memories and conditioned fear responses are thought to be a result of the response to associated triggers. Neuropeptide Y has been reported to reduce the release of norepinephrine and has been demonstrated to have anxiolytic properties in animal models. Studies have shown people with PTSD demonstrate reduced levels of NPY, possibly indicating their increased anxiety levels.\n\nOther studies indicate that people that suffer from PTSD have chronically low levels of serotonin, which contributes to the commonly associated behavioral symptoms such as anxiety, ruminations, irritability, aggression, suicidality, and impulsivity. Serotonin also contributes to the stabilization of glucocorticoid production.\n\nDopamine levels in a person with PTSD can help contribute to the symptoms associated. Low levels of dopamine can contribute to anhedonia, apathy, impaired attention, and motor deficits. Increased levels of dopamine can cause psychosis, agitation, and restlessness.\n\nMultiple studies described elevated concentrations of the thyroid hormone triiodothyronine in PTSD. This kind of type 2 allostatic adaptation may contribute to increased sensitivity to catecholamines and other stress mediators.\n\nHyperresponsiveness in the norepinephrine system can also be caused by continued exposure to high stress. Overactivation of norepinephrine receptors in the prefrontal cortex can be connected to the flashbacks and nightmares frequently experienced by those with PTSD. A decrease in other norepinephrine functions (awareness of the current environment) prevents the memory mechanisms in the brain from processing that the experience, and emotions the person is experiencing during a flashback are not associated with the current environment.\n\nThere is considerable controversy within the medical community regarding the neurobiology of PTSD. A 2012 review showed no clear relationship between cortisol levels and PTSD. The majority of reports indicate people with PTSD have elevated levels of corticotropin-releasing hormone, lower basal cortisol levels, and enhanced negative feedback suppression of the HPA axis by dexamethasone.\n\nA meta-analysis of structural MRI studies found an association with reduced total brain volume, intracranial volume, and volumes of the hippocampus, insula cortex, and anterior cingulate. Much of this research stems from PTSD in those exposed to the Vietnam War.\n\nPeople with PTSD have decreased brain activity in the dorsal and rostral anterior cingulate cortices and the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, areas linked to the experience and regulation of emotion.\n\nThe amygdala is strongly involved in forming emotional memories, especially fear-related memories. During high stress, the hippocampus, which is associated with placing memories in the correct context of space and time and memory recall, is suppressed. According to one theory this suppression may be the cause of the flashbacks that can affect people with PTSD. When someone with PTSD undergoes stimuli similar to the traumatic event, the body perceives the event as occurring again because the memory was never properly recorded in the person's memory.\n\nThe amygdalocentric model of PTSD proposes that the amygdala is very much aroused and insufficiently controlled by the medial prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus, in particular during extinction. This is consistent with an interpretation of PTSD as a syndrome of deficient extinction ability.\n\nThe basolateral nucleus (BLA) of the amygdala is responsible for the comparison and development of associations between unconditioned and conditioned responses to stimuli, which results in the fear conditioning present in PTSD. The BLA activates the central nucleus (CeA) of the amygdala, which elaborates the fear response, (including behavioral response to threat and elevated startle response). Descending inhibitory inputs from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) regulate the transmission from the BLA to the CeA, which is hypothesized to play a role in the extinction of conditioned fear responses. While as a whole, amygdala hyperactivity is reported by meta analysis of functional neuroimaging in PTSD, there is a large degree of heterogeniety, more so than in social anxiety disorder or phobic disorder. Comparing dorsal(roughly the CeA) and ventral(roughly the BLA) clusters, hyperactivity is more robust in the ventral cluster, while hypoactivity is evident in the dorsal cluster. The distinction may explain the blunted emotions in PTSD(via desensitization in the CeA) as well as the fear related component.\n\nIn a 2007 study Vietnam War combat veterans with PTSD showed a 20% reduction in the volume of their hippocampus compared with veterans having suffered no such symptoms. This finding was not replicated in chronic PTSD patients traumatized at an air show plane crash in 1988 (Ramstein, Germany).\n\nPTSD can be difficult to diagnose, because of:\n\nA number of screening instruments are used for screening adults for PTSD, such as the PTSD Checklist for \"DSM-5\" (PCL-5) and the Primary Care PTSD Screen for \"DSM-5\" (PC-PTSD-5).\n\nThere are also several screening and assessment instruments for use with children and adolescents. These include the Child PTSD Symptom Scale (CPSS), Child Trauma Screening Questionnaire, and UCLA Posttraumatic Stress Disorder Reaction Index for \"DSM-IV\".\n\nIn addition, there are also screening and assessment instruments for caregivers of very young children (six years of age and younger). These include the Young Child PTSD Screen, the Young Child PTSD Checklist, and the Diagnostic Infant and Preschool Assessment.\n\nPTSD was classified as an anxiety disorder in the \"DSM-IV\", but has since been reclassified as a \"trauma- and stressor-related disorder\" in the \"DSM-5\". The \"DSM-5\" diagnostic criteria for PTSD include four symptom clusters: re-experiencing, avoidance, negative alterations in cognition/mood, and alterations in arousal and reactivity.\n\nThe International Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems 10 (ICD-10) classifies PTSD under \"Reaction to severe stress, and adjustment disorders.\" The ICD-10 criteria for PTSD include re-experiencing, avoidance, and either increased reactivity or inability to recall certain details related to the event.\n\nThe ICD-11 diagnostic description for PTSD contains three components or symptom groups (1) re-experiencing, (2) avoidance, and (3) heightened sense of threat. Another difference between the ICD-10 and ICD-11 PTSD diagnostic formulations, ICD-11 no longer includes verbal thoughts about the traumatic event as a symptom. There is a predicted lower rate of diagnosed PTSD using ICD-11 compared to ICD10 or DSM-5. ICD-11 also proposes identifying a distinct group with complex post-traumatic stress disorder (CPTSD), who have more often experienced multiple and sustained traumas and have greater functional impairment than those with PTSD. \n\nA diagnosis of PTSD requires that the person has been exposed to an extreme, life-threatening stressor. Any stressor can result in a diagnosis of adjustment disorder and it is an appropriate diagnosis for a stressor and a symptom pattern that does not meet the criteria for PTSD.\n\nThe symptom pattern for acute stress disorder must occur and be resolved within four weeks of the trauma. If it lasts longer, and the symptom pattern fits that characteristic of PTSD, the diagnosis may be changed.\n\nObsessive compulsive disorder may be diagnosed for intrusive thoughts that are recurring but not related to a specific traumatic event.\n\nIn extreme cases of prolonged, repeated traumatization where there is no viable chance of escape, survivors may develop complex post-traumatic stress disorder. This occurs as a result of layers of trauma rather than a single traumatic event, and includes additional symptomatology, such as the loss of a coherent sense of self.\n\nModest benefits have been seen from early access to cognitive behavioral therapy. Critical incident stress management has been suggested as a means of preventing PTSD, but subsequent studies suggest the likelihood of its producing negative outcomes. A review \"...did not find any evidence to support the use of an intervention offered to everyone\", and that \"...multiple session interventions may result in worse outcome than no intervention for some individuals.\" The World Health Organization recommends against the use of benzodiazepines and antidepressants in those having experienced trauma. Some evidence supports the use of hydrocortisone for prevention in adults, although there is limited or no evidence supporting propranolol, escitalopram, temazepam, or gabapentin.\n\nTrauma-exposed individuals often receive treatment called \"psychological debriefing\" in an effort to prevent PTSD, which consists of interviews that are meant to allow individuals to directly confront the event and share their feelings with the counselor and to help structure their memories of the event. However, several meta-analyses find that psychological debriefing is unhelpful and is potentially harmful. This is true for both single-session debriefing and multiple session interventions. As of 2017 The American Psychological Association assessed psychological debriefing as \"No Research Support/Treatment is Potentially Harmful\".\n\nRisk-targeted interventions are those that attempt to mitigate specific formative information or events. It can target modeling normal behaviors, instruction on a task, or giving information on the event.\n\nReviews of studies have found that combination therapy (psychological and pharmacotherapy) is no more effective than psychological therapy alone.\n\nThe approaches with the strongest evidence include behavioral and cognitive-behavioral therapies such as prolonged exposure therapy, cognitive processing therapy, and eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR). In addition, brief eclectic psychotherapy (BEP), narrative exposure therapy (NET), and written narrative exposure therapies also have a evidence.\n\nA meta-analytic comparison of EMDR and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) found both protocols indistinguishable in terms of effectiveness in treating PTSD; however, \"the contribution of the eye movement component in EMDR to treatment outcome\" is unclear. A meta-analysis in children and adolescent also found that EMDR was as efficacious as cognitive behavioral therapy.\n\nFurthermore, the availability of school-based therapy is particularly important for children with PTSD. Children with PTSD are far more likely to pursue treatment at school (because of its proximity and ease) than at a free clinic.\n\nCBT seeks to change the way a person feels and acts by changing the patterns of thinking or behavior, or both, responsible for negative emotions. CBT has been proven to be an effective treatment for PTSD and is currently considered the standard of care for PTSD by the United States Department of Defense. In CBT, individuals learn to identify thoughts that make them feel afraid or upset and replace them with less distressing thoughts. The goal is to understand how certain thoughts about events cause PTSD-related stress.\n\nRecent research on contextually based third-generation behavior therapies suggests that they may produce results comparable to some of the better validated therapies. Many of these therapy methods have a significant element of exposure and have demonstrated success in treating the primary problems of PTSD and co-occurring depressive symptoms.\n\nExposure therapy is a type of cognitive behavioral therapy that involves assisting trauma survivors to re-experience distressing trauma-related memories and reminders in order to facilitate habituation and successful emotional processing of the trauma memory. Most exposure therapy programs include both imaginal confrontation with the traumatic memories and real-life exposure to trauma reminders; this therapy modality is well supported by clinical evidence. The success of exposure-based therapies has raised the question of whether exposure is a necessary ingredient in the treatment of PTSD. Some organizations have endorsed the need for exposure. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has been actively training mental health treatment staff in prolonged exposure therapy and Cognitive Processing Therapy in an effort to better treat U.S. veterans with PTSD.\n\nEye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) is a form of psychotherapy developed and studied by Francine Shapiro. She had noticed that, when she was thinking about disturbing memories herself, her eyes were moving rapidly. When she brought her eye movements under control while thinking, the thoughts were less distressing.\n\nIn 2002, Shapiro and Maxfield published a theory of why this might work, called adaptive information processing. This theory proposes that eye movement can be used to facilitate emotional processing of memories, changing the person's memory to attend to more adaptive information. The therapist initiates voluntary rapid eye movements while the person focuses on memories, feelings or thoughts about a particular trauma. The therapists uses hand movements to get the person to move their eyes backward and forward, but hand-tapping or tones can also be used. EMDR closely resembles cognitive behavior therapy as it combines exposure (re-visiting the traumatic event), working on cognitive processes and relaxation/self-monitoring. However, exposure by way of being asked to think about the experience rather than talk about it has been highlighted as one of the more important distinguishing elements of EMDR.<ref name=\"Jeffries/Davis\"></ref>\n\nThere have been multiple small controlled trials of four to eight weeks of EMDR in adults as well as children and adolescents. EMDR reduced PTSD symptoms enough in the short term that one in two adults no longer met the criteria for PTSD, but the number of people involved in these trials was small and thus results should be interpreted with caution pending further research. There was not enough evidence to know whether or not EMDR could eliminate PTSD in adults. In children and adolescents, a recent meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials using MetaNSUE to avoid biases related to missing information found that EMDR was at least as efficacious as CBT, and superior to waitlist or placebo. There was some evidence that EMDR might prevent depression. There were no studies comparing EMDR to other psychological treatments or to medication. Adverse effects were largely unstudied. The benefits were greater for women with a history of sexual assault compared with people who had experienced other types of traumatizing events (such as accidents, physical assaults and war). There is a small amount of evidence that EMDR may improve re-experiencing symptoms in children and adolescents, but EMDR has not been shown to improve other PTSD symptoms, anxiety, or depression.\n\nThe eye movement component of the therapy may not be critical for benefit. As there has been no major, high quality randomized trial of EMDR with eye movements versus EMDR without eye movements, the controversy over effectiveness is likely to continue. Authors of a meta-analysis published in 2013 stated, \"We found that people treated with eye movement therapy had greater improvement in their symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder than people given therapy without eye movements...Secondly we found that that in laboratory studies the evidence concludes that thinking of upsetting memories and simultaneously doing a task that facilitates eye movements reduces the vividness and distress associated with the upsetting memories.\"\n\nOther approaches, in particular involving social supports, may also be important. An open trial of interpersonal psychotherapy reported high rates of remission from PTSD symptoms without using exposure. A current, NIMH-funded trial in New York City is now (and into 2013) comparing interpersonal psychotherapy, prolonged exposure therapy, and relaxation therapy.\n\nWhile many medications do not have enough evidence to support their use, three (fluoxetine, paroxetine, and venlafaxine) have been shown to have a small benefit over placebo. With many medications, residual PTSD symptoms following treatment is the rule rather than the exception.\n\nSelective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) may have some benefit for PTSD symptoms. Tricyclic antidepressants are equally effective but are less well tolerated. Evidence provides support for a small or modest improvement with sertraline, fluoxetine, paroxetine, and venlafaxine. Thus, these four medications are considered to be first-line medications for PTSD.\n\nBenzodiazepines are not recommended for the treatment of PTSD due to a lack of evidence of benefit and risk of worsening PTSD symptoms. Some authors believe that the use of benzodiazepines is contraindicated for acute stress, as this group of drugs can cause dissociation. Nevertheless, some use benzodiazepines with caution for short-term anxiety and insomnia. While benzodiazepines can alleviate acute anxiety, there is no consistent evidence that they can stop the development of PTSD and may actually increase the risk of developing PTSD 2–5 times. Additionally, benzodiazepines may reduce the effectiveness of psychotherapeutic interventions, and there is some evidence that benzodiazepines may actually contribute to the development and chronification of PTSD. For those who already have PTSD, benzodiazepines may worsen and prolong the course of illness, by worsening psychotherapy outcomes, and causing or exacerbating aggression, depression (including suicidality), and substance use. Drawbacks include the risk of developing a benzodiazepine dependence, tolerance (i.e., short-term benefits wearing off with time), and withdrawal syndrome; additionally, individuals with PTSD (even those without a history of alcohol or drug misuse) are at an increased risk of abusing benzodiazepines. Due to a number of other treatments with greater efficacy for PTSD and less risks (e.g., prolonged exposure, cognitive processing therapy, eye movement desensitization and reprocessing, cognitive restructuring therapy, trauma-focused cognitive behavioral therapy, brief eclectic psychotherapy, narrative therapy, stress inoculation training, serotonergic antidepressants, adrenergic inhibitors, antipsychotics, and even anticonvulsants), benzodiazepines should be considered relatively contraindicated until all other treatment options are exhausted. For those who argue that benzodiazepines should be used sooner in the most severe cases, the adverse risk of disinhibition (associated with suicidality, aggression and crimes) and clinical risks of delaying or inhibiting definitive efficacious treatments, make other alternative treatments preferable (e.g., inpatient, residential, partial hospitalization, intensive outpatient, dialectic behavior therapy; and other fast-acting sedating medications such as trazodone, mirtazapine, amitripytline, doxepin, prazosin, propranolol, guanfacine, clonidine, quetiapine, olanzapine, valproate, gabapentin).\n\nGlucocorticoids may be useful for short-term therapy to protect against neurodegeneration caused by the extended stress response that characterizes PTSD, but long-term use may actually promote neurodegeneration.\n\nEvidence as of 2017 is insufficient to determine if medical cannabis is useful for PTSD. Despite the uncertain evidence, use of cannabis or derived products is widespread among U.S. veterans with PTSD.\n\nThe cannabinoid nabilone is sometimes used off-label for nightmares in PTSD. Although some short-term benefit was shown, adverse effects are common and it has not been adequately studied to determine efficacy. Additionally, there are other treatments with stronger efficacy and less risks (e.g., psychotherapy, serotonergic antidepressants, adrenergic inhibitors). The use of medical marijuana for PTSD is controversial, with only a handful of states permitting its use for that purpose.\n\nPhysical activity can influence people's psychological and physical health. The U.S. National Center for PTSD recommends moderate exercise as a way to distract from disturbing emotions, build self-esteem and increase feelings of being in control again. They recommend a discussion with a doctor before starting an exercise program.\n\nPlay is thought to help children link their inner thoughts with their outer world, connecting real experiences with abstract thought. Repetitive play can also be one way a child relives traumatic events, and that can be a symptom of trauma in a child or young person. Although it is commonly used, there have not been enough studies comparing outcomes in groups of children receiving and not receiving play therapy, so the effects of play therapy are not yet understood.\n\nMany veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have faced significant physical, emotional, and relational disruptions. In response, the United States Marine Corps has instituted programs to assist them in re-adjusting to civilian life, especially in their relationships with spouses and loved ones, to help them communicate better and understand what the other has gone through. Walter Reed Army Institute of Research (WRAIR) developed the Battlemind program to assist service members avoid or ameliorate PTSD and related problems. Wounded Warrior Project partnered with the US Department of Veterans Affairs to create Warrior Care Network, a national health system of PTSD treatment centers.\n\nThere is debate over the rates of PTSD found in populations, but, despite changes in diagnosis and the criteria used to define PTSD between 1997 and 2013, epidemiological rates have not changed significantly. Most of the current reliable data regarding the epidemiology of PTSD is based on DSM-IV criteria, as the DSM-5 was not introduced until 2013.\n\nThe United Nations' World Health Organization publishes estimates of PTSD impact for each of its member states; the latest data available are for 2004. Considering only the 25 most populated countries ranked by overall age-standardized Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) rate, the top half of the ranked list is dominated by Asian/Pacific countries, the US, and Egypt. Ranking the countries by the male-only or female-only rates produces much the same result, but with less meaningfulness, as the score range in the single-sex rankings is much-reduced (4 for women, 3 for men, as compared with 14 for the overall score range), suggesting that the differences between female and male rates, within each country, is what drives the distinctions between the countries.\n\nAs of 2017, the cross-national lifetime prevalence of PTSD was 3.9%, based on a survey were 5.6% had been exposed to trauma. The primary factor impacting treatment-seeking behavior, which can help to mitigate PTSD development after trauma was income, while being younger, female, and having less social status (less education, lower individual income, and being unemployed) were all factors associated with less treatment-seeking behaviour.\n\nThe National Comorbidity Survey Replication has estimated that the lifetime prevalence of PTSD among adult Americans is 6.8%, with women (9.7%) more than twice as likely as men (3.6%) to have PTSD at some point in their lives. More than 60% of men and more than 60% of women experience at least one traumatic event in their life. The most frequently reported traumatic events by men are rape, combat, and childhood neglect or physical abuse. Women most frequently report instances of rape, sexual molestation, physical attack, being threatened with a weapon and childhood physical abuse. 88% of men and 79% of women with lifetime PTSD have at least one comorbid psychiatric disorder. Major depressive disorder, 48% of men and 49% of women, and lifetime alcohol abuse or dependence, 51.9% of men and 27.9% of women, are the most common comorbid disorders.\n\nThe United States Department of Veterans Affairs estimates that 830,000 Vietnam War veterans suffered symptoms of PTSD. The \"National Vietnam Veterans' Readjustment Study\" (NVVRS) found 15.2% of male and 8.5% of female Vietnam veterans to suffer from current PTSD at the time of the study. Life-Time prevalence of PTSD was 30.9% for males and 26.9% for females. In a reanalysis of the NVVRS data, along with analysis of the data from the Matsunaga Vietnam Veterans Project, Schnurr, Lunney, Sengupta, and Waelde found that, contrary to the initial analysis of the NVVRS data, a large majority of Vietnam veterans suffered from PTSD symptoms (but not the disorder itself). Four out of five reported recent symptoms when interviewed 20–25 years after Vietnam.\n\nA 2011 study from Georgia State University and San Diego State University found that rates of PTSD diagnosis increased significantly when troops were stationed in combat zones, had tours of longer than a year, experienced combat, or were injured. Military personnel serving in combat zones were 12.1 percentage points more likely to receive a PTSD diagnosis than their active-duty counterparts in non-combat zones. Those serving more than 12 months in a combat zone were 14.3 percentage points more likely to be diagnosed with PTSD than those having served less than one year. Experiencing an enemy firefight was associated a 18.3 percentage point increase in the probability of PTSD, while being wounded or injured in combat was associated a 23.9 percentage point increase in the likelihood of a PTSD diagnosis. For the 2.16 million U.S. troops deployed in combat zones between 2001 and 2010, the total estimated two-year costs of treatment for combat-related PTSD are between $1.54 billion and $2.69 billion.\n\nAs of 2013, rates of PTSD have been estimated at up to 20% for veterans returning from Iraq and Afghanistan. As of 2013 13% of veterans returning from Iraq were unemployed.\n\nThe September 11 attacks took the lives of nearly 3,000 people, leaving 6,000 injured. First responders (police and firefighters), emergency medical services, sanitation workers, and volunteers were all involved in the recovery efforts. The prevalence of probable PTSD in these highly exposed populations was estimated across multiple studies utilizing in-person, telephone, and online interviews and questionnaires. Overall prevalence of PTSD was highest immediately following the attacks and decreased over time. However, disparities were found among the different types of recovery workers. The rate of probable PTSD for first responders was lowest directly after the attacks and increased from ranges of 4.8-7.8% to 7.4-16.5% between the 5-6 year follow-up and a later assessment. When comparing traditional responders to non-traditional responders (volunteers), the probable PTSD prevalence 2.5 years after the initial visit was greater in volunteers with estimates of 11.7% and 17.2% respectively. Volunteer participation in tasks atypical to the defined occupational role was a significant risk factor for PTSD. Other risk factors included exposure intensity, earlier start date, duration of time spent on site, and constant, negative reminders of the trauma. Additional research has been performed to understand the social consequences of the September 11 attacks. Alcohol consumption was assessed in a cohort of World Trade Center workers using the cut-annoyed-guilty-eye (CAGE) questionnaire for alcohol abuse. Almost 50% of World Trade Center workers who self-identified as alcohol users reported drinking more during the rescue efforts. Nearly a quarter of these individuals reported drinking more following the recovery. If determined to have probable PTSD status, the risk of developing an alcohol problem was double compared to those without psychological morbidity. Social disability was also studied in this cohort as a social consequence of the September 11 attacks. Defined by the disruption of family, work, and social life, the risk of developing social disability increased 17-fold when categorized as having probable PTSD.\n\nThe United States provides a range of benefits for veterans that the VA has determined have PTSD, which developed during, or as a result of, their military service. These benefits may include tax-free cash payments, free or low-cost mental health treatment and other healthcare, vocational rehabilitation services, employment assistance, and independent living support.\n\nIn the UK, there are various charities and service organisations dedicated to aiding veterans in readjusting to civilian life. The Royal British Legion and the more recently established Help for Heroes are two of Britain's more high-profile veterans' organisations which have actively advocated for veterans over the years. There has been some controversy that the NHS has not done enough in tackling mental health issues and is instead \"dumping\" veterans on charities such as Combat Stress.\n\nVeterans Affairs Canada offers a new program that includes rehabilitation, financial benefits, job placement, health benefits program, disability awards, peer support and family support.\n\nThe 1952 edition of the DSM-I includes a diagnosis of \"gross stress reaction\", which has similarities to the modern definition and understanding of PTSD. Gross stress reaction is defined as a \"normal personality [utilizing] established patterns of reaction to deal with overwhelming fear\" as a response to \"conditions of great stress\". The diagnosis includes language which relates the condition to combat as well as to \"civilian catastrophe\".\n\nEarly in 1978, the term was used in a working group finding presented to the Committee of Reactive Disorders. The condition was added to the DSM-III, which was being developed in the 1980s, as posttraumatic stress disorder. In the DSM-IV, the spelling \"posttraumatic stress disorder\" is used, while in the ICD-10, the spelling is \"post-traumatic stress disorder\".\n\nThe addition of the term to the DSM-III was greatly influenced by the experiences and conditions of U.S. military veterans of the Vietnam War. Due to its association with the war in Vietnam, PTSD has become synonymous with many historical war-time diagnoses such as railway spine, stress syndrome, nostalgia, soldier's heart, shell shock, battle fatigue, combat stress reaction, or traumatic war neurosis. Some of these terms date back to the 19th century, which is indicative of the universal nature of the condition. In a similar vein, psychiatrist Jonathan Shay has proposed that Lady Percy's soliloquy in the William Shakespeare play \"Henry IV, Part 1\" (act 2, scene 3, lines 40–62), written around 1597, represents an unusually accurate description of the symptom constellation of PTSD.\n\nThe correlations between combat and PTSD are undeniable; according to Stéphane Audoin-Rouzeau and Annette Becker, \"One-tenth of mobilized American men were hospitalized for mental disturbances between 1942 and 1945, and, after thirty-five days of uninterrupted combat, 98% of them manifested psychiatric disturbances in varying degrees.\" In fact, much of the available published research regarding PTSD is based on studies done on veterans of the war in Vietnam. A study based on personal letters from soldiers of the 18th-century Prussian Army concludes that combatants may have had PTSD. Aspects of PTSD in soldiers of ancient Assyria have been identified using written sources from 1300–600 BCE. These Assyrian soldiers would undergo a three-year rotation of combat before being allowed to return home, and were purported to have faced immense challenges in reconciling their past actions in war with their civilian lives. Connections between the actions of Viking berserkers and the hyperarousal of post-traumatic stress disorder have also been drawn.\n\nThe researchers from the Grady Trauma Project highlight the tendency people have to focus on the combat side of PTSD: \"less public awareness has focused on civilian PTSD, which results from trauma exposure that is not combat related... \" and \"much of the research on civilian PTSD has focused on the sequelae of a single, disastrous event, such as the Oklahoma City bombing, September 11th attacks, and Hurricane Katrina\". Disparity in the focus of PTSD research affects the already popular perception of the exclusive interconnectedness of combat and PTSD. This is misleading when it comes to understanding the implications and extent of PTSD as a neurological disorder. Dating back to the definition of Gross stress reaction in the DSM-I, civilian experience of catastrophic or high stress events is included as a cause of PTSD in medical literature. The 2014 National Comorbidity Survey reports that \"the traumas most commonly associated with PTSD are combat exposure and witnessing among men and rape and sexual molestation among women.\"\nBecause of the initial overt focus on PTSD as a combat related disorder when it was first fleshed out in the years following the war in Vietnam, in 1975 Ann Wolbert Burgess and Lynda Lytle Holmstrom defined Rape trauma syndrome, RTS, in order to draw attention to the striking similarities between the experiences of soldiers returning from war and of rape victims. This paved the way for a more comprehensive understanding of causes of PTSD.\n\nAfter PTSD became an official psychiatric diagnosis with the publication of DSM-III (1980), the number of personal injury lawsuits (tort claims) asserting the plaintiff suffered from PTSD increased rapidly. However, triers of fact (judges and juries) often regarded the PTSD diagnostic criteria as imprecise, a view shared by legal scholars, trauma specialists, forensic psychologists, and forensic psychiatrists. Professional discussions and debates in academic journals, at conferences, and between thought leaders, led to a more clearly-defined set of diagnostic criteria in DSM-IV, particularly the definition of a \"traumatic event\".\n\nThe DSM-IV classified PTSD under anxiety disorders, but the DSM-5 created a new category called \"Trauma- and Stressor-Related Disorders,\" in which PTSD is now classified.\n\nThe Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders does not hyphenate 'post' and 'traumatic', thus, the DSM-5 lists the disorder as \"posttraumatic stress disorder\". However, many scientific journal articles and other scholarly publications do hyphenate the name of the disorder, \"viz.\", post-traumatic stress disorder. Dictionaries also differ with regard to the preferred spelling of the disorder with the \"Collins English Dictionary - Complete and Unabridged\" using the hyphenated spelling, and the \"American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language, Fifth Edition\" and the \"Random House Kernerman Webster's College Dictionary\" giving the non-hyphenated spelling.\n\nSome at the Pentagon have used the terminology \"PTSS\" (syndrome instead of disorder, to avoid connotation of stigma), or just \"PTS.\"\n\nMost knowledge regarding PTSD comes from studies in high-income countries.\n\nTo recapitulate some of the neurological and neurobehavioral symptoms experienced by the veteran population of recent conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan, researchers at the Roskamp Institute and the James A Haley Veteran's Hospital (Tampa) have developed an animal model to study the consequences of mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) and PTSD. In the laboratory, the researchers exposed mice to a repeated session of unpredictable stressor (i.e. predator odor while restrained), and physical trauma in the form of inescapable foot-shock, and this was also combined with a mTBI. In this study, PTSD animals demonstrated recall of traumatic memories, anxiety, and an impaired social behavior, while animals subject to both mTBI and PTSD had a pattern of disinhibitory-like behavior. mTBI abrogated both contextual fear and impairments in social behavior seen in PTSD animals. In comparison with other animal studies, examination of neuroendocrine and neuroimmune responses in plasma revealed a trend toward increase in corticosterone in PTSD and combination groups.\n\nMDMA was used for psychedelic therapy for a variety of indications before its criminalization in the U.S. in 1985. In response to its criminalization, the Multidisciplinary Association for Psychedelic Studies was founded as a nonprofit drug-development organization to develop MDMA into a legal prescription drug for use as an adjunct in psychotherapy. The drug is hypothesized to facilitate psychotherapy by reducing fear, thereby allowing people to reprocess and accept their traumatic memories without becoming emotionally overwhelmed. In this treatment, people participate in an extended psychotherapy session during the acute activity of the drug, and then spend the night at the treatment facility. In the sessions with the drug, therapists are not directive and support the patients in exploring their inner experiences. People participate in standard psychotherapy sessions before the drug-assisted sessions, as well as after the drug-assisted psychotherapy to help them integrate their experiences with the drug. The phase 2 clinical trails of the MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy, was publicized at the end of November 2016. Preliminary results suggest MDMA-assisted psychotherapy might be effective. MAPS is currently waiting for the FDA approval of the phase 3 as of early 2017.\n\nResearchers are also investigating using D-cycloserine, hydrocortisone, and propranolol as add on therapy to more conventional exposure therapy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19285924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19285924", "title": "RMS Titanic", "text": "RMS Titanic\n\nRMS \"Titanic\" was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean in the early hours of 15 April 1912, after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton to New York City. There were an estimated 2,224 passengers and crew aboard, and more than 1,500 died, making it one of the deadliest commercial peacetime maritime disasters in modern history. RMS \"Titanic\" was the largest ship afloat at the time she entered service and was the second of three s operated by the White Star Line. She was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast. Thomas Andrews, her architect, died in the disaster.\n\n\"Titanic\" was under the command of Capt. Edward Smith, who also went down with the ship. The ocean liner carried some of the wealthiest people in the world, as well as hundreds of emigrants from Great Britain and Ireland, Scandinavia and elsewhere throughout Europe who were seeking a new life in the United States. The first-class accommodation was designed to be the pinnacle of comfort and luxury, with an on-board gymnasium, swimming pool, libraries, high-class restaurants and opulent cabins. A high-powered radiotelegraph transmitter was available for sending passenger \"marconigrams\" and for the ship's operational use. Although \"Titanic\" had advanced safety features such as watertight compartments and remotely activated watertight doors, it only carried enough lifeboats for 1,178 people—about half the number on board, and one third of her total capacity—due to outdated maritime safety regulations. The ship carried 16 lifeboat davits which could lower three lifeboats each, for a total of 48 boats. However, \"Titanic\" carried only a total of 20 lifeboats, four of which were collapsible and proved hard to launch during the sinking.\n\nAfter leaving Southampton on 10 April 1912, \"Titanic\" called at Cherbourg in France and Queenstown (now Cobh) in Ireland before heading west to New York. On 14 April, four days into the crossing and about south of Newfoundland, she hit an iceberg at 11:40 p.m. ship's time. The collision caused the hull plates to buckle inwards along her starboard (right) side and opened five of her sixteen watertight compartments to the sea; she could only survive four flooding. Meanwhile, passengers and some crew members were evacuated in lifeboats, many of which were launched only partially loaded. A disproportionate number of men were left aboard because of a \"women and children first\" protocol for loading lifeboats. At 2:20 a.m., she broke apart and foundered with well over one thousand people still aboard. Just under two hours after \"Titanic\" sank, the Cunard liner arrived and brought aboard an estimated 705 survivors.\n\nThe disaster was met with worldwide shock and outrage at the huge loss of life and the regulatory and operational failures that led to it. Public inquiries in Britain and the United States led to major improvements in maritime safety. One of their most important legacies was the establishment in 1914 of the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS), which still governs maritime safety today. Additionally, several new wireless regulations were passed around the world in an effort to learn from the many missteps in wireless communications—which could have saved many more passengers.\n\nThe wreck of \"Titanic\" was discovered in 1985 (more than 70 years after the disaster), and remains on the seabed. The ship was split in two and is gradually disintegrating at a depth of . Thousands of artefacts have been recovered and displayed at museums around the world. \"Titanic\" has become one of the most famous ships in history; her memory is kept alive by numerous works of popular culture, including books, folk songs, films, exhibits, and memorials. \"Titanic\" is the second largest ocean liner wreck in the world, only beaten by her sister , the largest ever sunk, although she holds the record as the largest sunk while actually in service as a liner due to \"Britannic\" being used as a hospital ship at the time of her sinking. The final survivor of the sinking, Millvina Dean, aged two months at the time, died in 2009 at the age of 97.\n\nThe name \"Titanic\" was derived from Greek mythology and meant 'gigantic'. Built in Belfast, Ireland, in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (as it was then known), the RMS \"Titanic\" was the second of the three s—the first was the and the third was the . Britannic was originally to be called Gigantic and was to be over 1,000 feet long. They were by far the largest vessels of the British shipping company White Star Line's fleet, which comprised 29 steamers and tenders in 1912. The three ships had their genesis in a discussion in mid-1907 between the White Star Line's chairman, J. Bruce Ismay, and the American financier J. P. Morgan, who controlled the White Star Line's parent corporation, the International Mercantile Marine Co. (IMM).\n\nThe White Star Line faced an increasing challenge from its main rivals Cunard, which had recently launched the and the —the fastest passenger ships then in service—and the German lines Hamburg America and Norddeutscher Lloyd. Ismay preferred to compete on size rather than speed and proposed to commission a new class of liners that would be larger than anything that had gone before as well as being the last word in comfort and luxury. The company sought an upgrade in their fleet primarily in response to the Cunard giants but also to replace their oldest pair of passenger ships still in service, being the of 1889 and of 1890. \"Teutonic\" was replaced by \"Olympic\" while \"Majestic\" was replaced by \"Titanic\". \"Majestic\" would be brought back into her old spot on White Star's New York service after \"Titanic\"'s loss.\n\nThe ships were constructed by the Belfast shipbuilders Harland and Wolff, who had a long-established relationship with the White Star Line dating back to 1867. Harland and Wolff were given a great deal of latitude in designing ships for the White Star Line; the usual approach was for the latter to sketch out a general concept which the former would take away and turn into a ship design. Cost considerations were relatively low on the agenda and Harland and Wolff was authorised to spend what it needed on the ships, plus a five percent profit margin. In the case of the \"Olympic\"-class ships, a cost of £3 million (£250 million in 2015 money) for the first two ships was agreed plus \"extras to contract\" and the usual five percent fee.\n\nHarland and Wolff put their leading designers to work designing the \"Olympic\"-class vessels. The design was overseen by Lord Pirrie, a director of both Harland and Wolff and the White Star Line; naval architect Thomas Andrews, the managing director of Harland and Wolff's design department; Edward Wilding, Andrews' deputy and responsible for calculating the ship's design, stability and trim; and Alexander Carlisle, the shipyard's chief draughtsman and general manager. Carlisle's responsibilities included the decorations, equipment and all general arrangements, including the implementation of an efficient lifeboat davit design.\n\nOn 29 July 1908, Harland and Wolff presented the drawings to J. Bruce Ismay and other White Star Line executives. Ismay approved the design and signed three \"letters of agreement\" two days later, authorising the start of construction. At this point the first ship—which was later to become \"Olympic\"—had no name, but was referred to simply as \"Number 400\", as it was Harland and Wolff's four hundredth hull. \"Titanic\" was based on a revised version of the same design and was given the number 401.\n\n\"Titanic\" was long with a maximum breadth of . Her total height, measured from the base of the keel to the top of the bridge, was . She measured 46,328 gross register tons and with a draught of , she displaced 52,310 tons.\n\nAll three of the \"Olympic\"-class ships had ten decks (excluding the top of the officers' quarters), eight of which were for passenger use. From top to bottom, the decks were:\n\n\"Titanic\" was equipped with three main engines—two reciprocating four-cylinder, triple-expansion steam engines and one centrally placed low-pressure Parsons turbine—each driving a propeller. The two reciprocating engines had a combined output of 30,000 hp. The output of the steam turbine was 16,000 hp. The White Star Line had used the same combination of engines on an earlier liner, the , where it had been a great success. It provided a good combination of performance and speed; reciprocating engines by themselves were not powerful enough to propel an \"Olympic\"-class liner at the desired speeds, while turbines were sufficiently powerful but caused uncomfortable vibrations, a problem that affected the all-turbine Cunard liners and . By combining reciprocating engines with a turbine, fuel usage could be reduced and motive power increased, while using the same amount of steam.\n\nThe two reciprocating engines were each long and weighed 720 tons, with their bedplates contributing a further 195 tons. They were powered by steam produced in 29 boilers, 24 of which were double-ended and five single-ended, which contained a total of 159 furnaces. The boilers were in diameter and long, each weighing 91.5 tons and capable of holding 48.5 tons of water.\n\nThey were heated by burning coal, 6,611 tons of which could be carried in \"Titanic\"s bunkers, with a further 1,092 tons in Hold 3. The furnaces required over 600 tons of coal a day to be shovelled into them by hand, requiring the services of 176 firemen working around the clock. 100 tons of ash a day had to be disposed of by ejecting it into the sea. The work was relentless, dirty and dangerous, and although firemen were paid relatively generously there was a high suicide rate among those who worked in that capacity.\n\nExhaust steam leaving the reciprocating engines was fed into the turbine, which was situated aft. From there it passed into a surface condenser, to increase the efficiency of the turbine and so that the steam could be condensed back into water and reused. The engines were attached directly to long shafts which drove the propellers. There were three, one for each engine; the outer (or wing) propellers were the largest, each carrying three blades of manganese-bronze alloy with a total diameter of . The middle propeller was slightly smaller at in diameter, and could be stopped but not reversed.\n\n\"Titanic\"s electrical plant was capable of producing more power than an average city power station of the time. Immediately aft of the turbine engine were four 400 kW steam-driven electric generators, used to provide electrical power to the ship, plus two 30 kW auxiliary generators for emergency use. Their location in the stern of the ship meant they remained operational until the last few minutes before the ship sank.\n\nThe interiors of the \"Olympic\"-class ships were subdivided into 16 primary compartments divided by 15 bulkheads which extended well above the waterline. Eleven vertically closing watertight doors could seal off the compartments in the event of an emergency. The ship's exposed decking was made of pine and teak, while interior ceilings were covered in painted granulated cork to combat condensation. Standing above the decks were four funnels, each painted buff with black tops, (though only three were functional—the last one was a dummy, installed for aesthetic purposes and also for kitchen ventilation)—and two masts, each high, which supported derricks for working cargo.\n\n\"Titanic\"s rudder was so large—at high and long, weighing over 100 tons—that it required steering engines to move it. Two steam-powered steering engines were installed though only one was used at any one time, with the other one kept in reserve. They were connected to the short tiller through stiff springs, to isolate the steering engines from any shocks in heavy seas or during fast changes of direction. As a last resort, the tiller could be moved by ropes connected to two steam capstans. The capstans were also used to raise and lower the ship's five anchors (one port, one starboard, one in the centreline and two kedging anchors).\n\nThe ship was equipped with her own waterworks, capable of heating and pumping water to all parts of the vessel via a complex network of pipes and valves. The main water supply was taken aboard while \"Titanic\" was in port, but in an emergency the ship could also distil fresh water from seawater, though this was not a straightforward process as the distillation plant quickly became clogged by salt deposits. A network of insulated ducts conveyed warm air, driven by electric fans, around the ship, and First Class cabins were fitted with additional electric heaters.\n\n\"Titanic\"'s radiotelegraph equipment (then known as wireless telegraphy) was leased to the White Star Line by the Marconi International Marine Communication Company, which also supplied two of its employees, Jack Phillips and Harold Bride, as operators. The service maintained a 24-hour schedule, primarily sending and receiving passenger telegrams, but also handling navigation messages including weather reports and ice warnings.\n\nThe radio room was located on the Boat Deck, in the officers' quarters. A soundproofed \"Silent Room\", next to the operating room, housed loud equipment, including the transmitter and a motor-generator used for producing alternating currents. The operators' living quarters were adjacent to the working office. The ship was equipped with a 'state of the art' 5 kilowatt rotary spark-gap transmitter, operating under the radio callsign MGY, and communication was conducted in Morse code. This transmitter was one of the first Marconi installations to use a rotary spark gap, which gave \"Titanic\" a distinctive musical tone that could be readily distinguished from other signals. The transmitter was one of the most powerful in the world, and guaranteed to broadcast over a radius of . An elevated T-antenna that spanned the length of the ship was used for transmitting and receiving. The normal operating frequency was 500 kHz (600 m wavelength), however the equipment could also operate on the \"short\" wavelength of 1,000 kHz (300 m wavelength) that was employed by smaller vessels with shorter antennas.\n\nThe passenger facilities aboard \"Titanic\" aimed to meet the highest standards of luxury. According to \"Titanic\"s general arrangement plans, the ship could accommodate 833 First Class Passengers, 614 in Second Class and 1,006 in Third Class, for a total passenger capacity of 2,453. In addition, her capacity for crew members exceeded 900, as most documents of her original configuration have stated that her full carrying capacity for both passengers and crew was approximately 3,547. Her interior design was a departure from that of other passenger liners, which had typically been decorated in the rather heavy style of a manor house or an English country house.\n\n\"Titanic\" was laid out in a much lighter style similar to that of contemporary high-class hotels—the Ritz Hotel was a reference point—with First Class cabins finished in the Empire style. A variety of other decorative styles, ranging from the Renaissance to Louis XV, were used to decorate cabins and public rooms in First and Second Class areas of the ship. The aim was to convey an impression that the passengers were in a floating hotel rather than a ship; as one passenger recalled, on entering the ship's interior a passenger would \"at once lose the feeling that we are on board ship, and seem instead to be entering the hall of some great house on shore\".\n\nAmong the more novel features available to first-class passengers was a 7 ft. deep saltwater swimming pool, a gymnasium, a squash court, and a Turkish bath which comprised electric bath, steam room, cool room, massage room, and hot room. First-class common rooms were impressive in scope and lavishly decorated. They included a Lounge in the style of the Palace of Versailles, an enormous Reception Room, a men's Smoking Room, and a Reading and Writing Room. There was an À la Carte Restaurant in the style of the Ritz Hotel which was run as a concession by the famous Italian restaurateur Gaspare Gatti. A \"Café Parisien\" decorated in the style of a French sidewalk café, complete with ivy covered trellises and wicker furniture, was run as an annex to the restaurant. For an extra cost, first-class passengers could enjoy the finest French \"haute cuisine\" in the most luxurious of surroundings. There was also a \"Verandah Café\" where tea and light refreshments were served, that offered grand views of the ocean. At 114 ft. long X 92 ft. wide, the Dining Saloon on D-Deck was the largest room afloat and could seat almost 600 passengers at a time.\n\nThird Class (commonly referred to as Steerage) accommodations aboard \"Titanic\" were not as luxurious as First or Second Class, but even so were better than on many other ships of the time. They reflected the improved standards which the White Star Line had adopted for trans-Atlantic immigrant and lower-class travel. On most other North Atlantic passenger ships at the time, Third Class accommodations consisted of little more than open dormitories in the forward end of the vessels, in which hundreds of people were confined, often without adequate food or toilet facilities.\n\nThe White Star Line had long since broken that mould. As seen aboard \"Titanic\", all White Star Line passenger ships divided their Third Class accommodations into two sections, always at opposite ends of the vessel from one another. The established arrangement was that single men were quartered in the forward areas, while single women, married couples and families were quartered aft. In addition, while other ships provided only open berth sleeping arrangements, White Star Line vessels provided their Third Class passengers with private, small but comfortable cabins capable of accommodating two, four, six, eight and 10 passengers.\n\nThird Class accommodations also included their own dining rooms, as well as public gathering areas including adequate open deck space, which aboard \"Titanic\" comprised the Poop Deck at the stern, the forward and aft well decks, and a large open space on D Deck which could be used as a social hall. This was supplemented by the addition of a smoking room for men and a General Room on C Deck which women could use for reading and writing. Although they were not as glamorous in design as spaces seen in upper class accommodations, they were still far above average for the period.\n\nLeisure facilities were provided for all three classes to pass the time. As well as making use of the indoor amenities such as the library, smoking rooms, and gymnasium, it was also customary for passengers to socialise on the open deck, promenading or relaxing in hired deck chairs or wooden benches. A passenger list was published before the sailing to inform the public which members of the great and good were on board, and it was not uncommon for ambitious mothers to use the list to identify rich bachelors to whom they could introduce their marriageable daughters during the voyage.\n\nOne of \"Titanic\"s most distinctive features was her First Class staircase, known as the Grand Staircase or Grand Stairway. Built of solid English oak with a sweeping curve, the staircase descended through seven decks of the ship, between the Boat Deck to E deck, before terminating in a simplified single flight on F Deck. It was capped with a dome of wrought iron and glass that admitted natural light to the stairwell. Each landing off the staircase gave access to ornate entrance halls paneled in the William & Mary style and lit by ormolu and crystal light fixtures.\n\nAt the uppermost landing was a large carved wooden panel containing a clock, with figures of \"Honour and Glory Crowning Time\" flanking the clock face. The Grand Staircase was destroyed during the sinking and is now just a void in the ship which modern explorers have used to access the lower decks. During the filming of James Cameron's \"Titanic\" in 1997, his replica of the Grand Staircase was ripped from its foundations by the force of the inrushing water on the set. It has been suggested that during the real event, the entire Grand Staircase was ejected upwards through the dome.\n\nAlthough \"Titanic\" was primarily a passenger liner, she also carried a substantial amount of cargo. Her designation as a Royal Mail Ship (RMS) indicated that she carried mail under contract with the Royal Mail (and also for the United States Post Office Department). For the storage of letters, parcels and specie (bullion, coins and other valuables), of space in her holds was allocated. The Sea Post Office on G Deck was manned by five postal clerks; three Americans and two Britons, who worked 13 hours a day, seven days a week sorting up to 60,000 items daily.\n\nThe ship's passengers brought with them a huge amount of baggage; another was taken up by first- and second-class baggage. In addition, there was a considerable quantity of regular cargo, ranging from furniture to foodstuffs, and a 1912 Renault Type CE Coupe de Ville motor car. Despite later myths, the cargo on \"Titanic\"s maiden voyage was fairly mundane; there was no gold, exotic minerals or diamonds, and one of the more famous items lost in the shipwreck, a jewelled copy of the \"Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam\", was valued at only £405 (£ today). According to the claims for compensation filed with Commissioner Gilchrist, following the conclusion of the Senate Inquiry, the single most highly valued item of luggage or cargo was a large neoclassical oil painting entitled \"La Circassienne au Bain\" by French artist Merry-Joseph Blondel. The painting's owner, first class passenger Mauritz Håkan Björnström-Steffansson, filed a claim for $100,000 ($2.4 million equivalent in 2014) in compensation for the loss of the artwork.\n\n\"Titanic\" was equipped with eight electric cranes, four electric winches and three steam winches to lift cargo and baggage in and out of the hold. It is estimated that the ship used some 415 tons of coal whilst in Southampton, simply generating steam to operate the cargo winches and provide heat and light.\n\n\"Titanic\" carried a total of 20 lifeboats: 14 standard wooden Harland and Wolff lifeboats with a capacity of 65 people each and four Englehardt \"collapsible\" (wooden bottom, collapsible canvas sides) lifeboats (identified as A to D) with a capacity of 47 people each. In addition, she had two emergency cutters with a capacity of 40 people each. \"Olympic\" herself did not even carry the four collapsibles A–D during the 1911–12 season. All of the lifeboats were stowed securely on the boat deck and, except for collapsible lifeboats A and B, connected to davits by ropes. Those on the starboard side were odd-numbered 1–15 from bow to stern, while those on the port side were even-numbered 2–16 from bow to stern.\n\nBoth cutters were kept swung out, hanging from the davits, ready for immediate use, while collapsible lifeboats C and D were stowed on the boat deck (connected to davits) immediately inboard of boats 1 and 2 respectively. A and B were stored on the roof of the officers' quarters, on either side of number 1 funnel. There were no davits to lower them and their weight would make them difficult to launch by hand. Each boat carried (among other things) food, water, blankets, and a spare life belt. Lifeline ropes on the boats' sides enabled them to save additional people from the water if necessary.\n\n\"Titanic\" had 16 sets of davits, each able to handle four lifeboats. This gave \"Titanic\" the ability to carry up to 64 wooden lifeboats which would have been enough for 4,000 people—considerably more than her actual capacity. However, the White Star Line decided that only 16 wooden lifeboats and four collapsibles would be carried, which could accommodate 1,178 people, only one-third of \"Titanic\" total capacity. At the time, the Board of Trade's regulations required British vessels over 10,000 tons to only carry 16 lifeboats with a capacity of 990 occupants.\n\nTherefore, the White Star Line actually provided more lifeboat accommodation than was legally required. At the time, lifeboats were intended to ferry survivors from a sinking ship to a rescuing ship—not keep afloat the whole population or power them to shore. Had the responded to \"Titanic\"'s distress calls, the lifeboats may have been adequate to ferry the passengers to safety as planned.\n\nThe sheer size of \"Titanic\" and her sister ships posed a major engineering challenge for Harland and Wolff; no shipbuilder had ever before attempted to construct vessels this size. The ships were constructed on Queen's Island, now known as the Titanic Quarter, in Belfast Harbour. Harland and Wolff had to demolish three existing slipways and build two new ones, the largest ever constructed up to that time, to accommodate both ships. Their construction was facilitated by an enormous gantry built by Sir William Arrol & Co., a Scottish firm responsible for the building of the Forth Bridge and London's Tower Bridge. The Arrol Gantry stood high, was wide and long, and weighed more than 6,000 tons. It accommodated a number of mobile cranes. A separate floating crane, capable of lifting 200 tons, was brought in from Germany.\n\nThe construction of \"Olympic\" and \"Titanic\" took place virtually in parallel, with \"Olympic\"s keel laid down first on 16 December 1908 and \"Titanic\"s on 31 March 1909. Both ships took about 26 months to build and followed much the same construction process. They were designed essentially as an enormous floating box girder, with the keel acting as a backbone and the frames of the hull forming the ribs. At the base of the ships, a double bottom deep supported 300 frames, each between and apart and measuring up to about long. They terminated at the bridge deck (B Deck) and were covered with steel plates which formed the outer skin of the ships.\n\nThe 2,000 hull plates were single pieces of rolled steel plate, mostly up to wide and long and weighing between 2.5 and 3 tons. Their thickness varied from to . The plates were laid in a clinkered (overlapping) fashion from the keel to the bilge. Above that point they were laid in the \"in and out\" fashion, where strake plating was applied in bands (the \"in strakes\") with the gaps covered by the \"out strakes\", overlapping on the edges. Commercial oxy-fuel and electric arc welding methods, ubiquitous in fabrication today, were still in their infancy; like most other iron and steel structures of the era, the hull was held together with over three million iron and steel rivets, which by themselves weighed over 1,200 tons. They were fitted using hydraulic machines or were hammered in by hand. In the 1990s some material scientists concluded that the steel plate used for the ship was subject to being especially brittle when cold, and that this brittleness exacerbated the impact damage and hastened the sinking. It is believed that, by the standards of the time, the steel plate's quality was good, not faulty, but that it was inferior to what would be used for shipbuilding purposes in later decades, owing to advances in the metallurgy of steelmaking. As for the rivets, considerable emphasis has also been placed on their quality and strength.\n\nOne of the last items to be fitted on \"Titanic\" before the ship's launch was her two side anchors and one centre anchor. The anchors themselves were a challenge to make with the centre anchor being the largest ever forged by hand and weighing nearly 16 tons. Twenty Clydesdale draught horses were needed to haul the centre anchor by wagon from the Noah Hingley & Sons Ltd forge shop in Netherton, near Dudley, United Kingdom to the Dudley railway station two miles away. From there it was shipped by rail to Fleetwood in Lancashire before being loaded aboard a ship and sent to Belfast.\n\nThe work of constructing the ships was difficult and dangerous. For the 15,000 men who worked at Harland and Wolff at the time, safety precautions were rudimentary at best; a lot of the work was dangerous and was carried out without any safety equipment like hard hats or hand guards on machinery. As a result, deaths and injuries were to be expected. During \"Titanic\"s construction, 246 injuries were recorded, 28 of them \"severe\", such as arms severed by machines or legs crushed under falling pieces of steel. Six people died on the ship herself while she was being constructed and fitted out, and another two died in the shipyard workshops and sheds. Just before the launch a worker was killed when a piece of wood fell on him.\n\n\"Titanic\" was launched at 12:15 p.m. on 31 May 1911 in the presence of Lord Pirrie, J. Pierpoint Morgan, J. Bruce Ismay and 100,000 onlookers. 22 tons of soap and tallow were spread on the slipway to lubricate the ship's passage into the River Lagan. In keeping with the White Star Line's traditional policy, the ship was not formally named or christened with champagne. The ship was towed to a fitting-out berth where, over the course of the next year, her engines, funnels and superstructure were installed and her interior was fitted out.\n\nAlthough \"Titanic\" was virtually identical to the class's lead ship \"Olympic\", a few changes were made to distinguish both ships. The most noticeable exterior difference was that \"Titanic\" (and the third vessel in class, ) had a steel screen with sliding windows installed along the forward half of the A Deck promenade. This was installed as a last minute change at the personal request of Bruce Ismay, and was intended to provide additional shelter to first class passengers. Extensive changes were made to B Deck on \"Titanic\" as the promenade space in this deck, which had proven unpopular on \"Olympic\" was converted into additional First Class cabins, including two opulent parlour suites with their own private promenade spaces. The \"À la Carte\" restaurant was also enlarged and the \"Café Parisien\", an entirely new feature which did not exist on \"Olympic\", was added. These changes made \"Titanic\" slightly heavier than her sister, and thus she could claim to be the largest ship afloat. The work took longer than expected due to design changes requested by Ismay and a temporary pause in work occasioned by the need to repair \"Olympic\", which had been in a collision in September 1911. Had \"Titanic\" been finished earlier, she might well have missed her collision with an iceberg.\n\n\"Titanic\"s sea trials began at 6 a.m. on Tuesday, 2 April 1912, just two days after her fitting out was finished and eight days before she was due to leave Southampton on her maiden voyage. The trials were delayed for a day due to bad weather, but by Monday morning it was clear and fair. Aboard were 78 stokers, greasers and firemen, and 41 members of crew. No domestic staff appear to have been aboard. Representatives of various companies travelled on \"Titanic\" sea trials, Thomas Andrews and Edward Wilding of Harland and Wolff and Harold A. Sanderson of IMM. Bruce Ismay and Lord Pirrie were too ill to attend. Jack Phillips and Harold Bride served as radio operators, and performed fine-tuning of the Marconi equipment. Francis Carruthers, a surveyor from the Board of Trade, was also present to see that everything worked, and that the ship was fit to carry passengers.\n\nThe sea trials consisted of a number of tests of her handling characteristics, carried out first in Belfast Lough and then in the open waters of the Irish Sea. Over the course of about 12 hours, \"Titanic\" was driven at different speeds, her turning ability was tested and a \"crash stop\" was performed in which the engines were reversed full ahead to full astern, bringing her to a stop in or 3 minutes and 15 seconds. The ship covered a distance of about , averaging and reaching a maximum speed of just under .\n\nOn returning to Belfast at about 7 p.m., the surveyor signed an \"Agreement and Account of Voyages and Crew\", valid for 12 months, which declared the ship seaworthy. An hour later, \"Titanic\" departed Belfast to head to Southampton, a voyage of about . After a journey lasting about 28 hours she arrived about midnight on 4 April and was towed to the port's Berth 44, ready for the arrival of her passengers and the remainder of her crew.\n\nBoth \"Olympic\" and \"Titanic\" registered Liverpool as their home port. The offices of the White Star Line as well as Cunard were in Liverpool, and up until the introduction of the \"Olympic\", most British ocean liners for both Cunard and White Star, such as \"Lusitania\" and \"Mauretania\", sailed out of Liverpool followed by a port of call in Queenstown, Ireland. Since the company's founding in 1871, a vast majority of their operations had taken place out of Liverpool. However, in 1907 White Star established another service out of the port of Southampton on England's south coast, which became known as White Star's \"Express Service\". Southampton had many advantages over Liverpool, the first being its proximity to London.\n\nIn addition, Southampton, being on the south coast, allowed ships to easily cross the English Channel and make a port of call on the northern coast of France, usually at Cherbourg. This allowed British ships to pick up clientele from continental Europe before recrossing the channel and picking up passengers at Queenstown. The \"Southampton-Cherbourg-New York run\" would become so popular that most British ocean liners began using the port after World War I. Out of respect for Liverpool, ships continued to be registered there until the early 1960s. \"Queen Elizabeth 2\" was one of the first ships registered in Southampton when introduced into service by Cunard in 1969.\n\n\"Titanic\"'s maiden voyage was intended to be the first of many trans-Atlantic crossings between Southampton and New York via Cherbourg and Queenstown on westbound runs, returning via Plymouth in England while eastbound. Indeed, her entire schedule of voyages through to December 1912 still exists. When the route was established, four ships were assigned to the service. In addition to \"Teutonic\" and \"Majestic\", the and the brand new sailed the route. When the \"Olympic\" entered service in June 1911, she replaced \"Teutonic\", which after completing her last run on the service in late April was transferred to the Dominion Line's Canadian service. The following August, \"Adriatic\" was transferred to White Star's main Liverpool-New York service, and in November, \"Majestic\" was withdrawn from service impending the arrival of \"Titanic\" in the coming months, and was mothballed as a reserve ship.\n\nWhite Star's initial plans for \"Olympic\" and \"Titanic\" on the Southampton run followed the same routine as their predecessors had done before them. Each would sail once every three weeks from Southampton and New York, usually leaving at noon each Wednesday from Southampton and each Saturday from New York, thus enabling the White Star Line to offer weekly sailings in each direction. Special trains were scheduled from London and Paris to convey passengers to Southampton and Cherbourg respectively. The deep-water dock at Southampton, then known as the \"\"White Star Dock\", had been specially constructed to accommodate the new \"Olympic\"-class liners, and had opened in 1911.\n\n\"Titanic\" had around 885 crew members on board for her maiden voyage. Like other vessels of her time, she did not have a permanent crew, and the vast majority of crew members were casual workers who only came aboard the ship a few hours before she sailed from Southampton. The process of signing up recruits had begun on 23 March and some had been sent to Belfast, where they served as a skeleton crew during \"Titanic\"s sea trials and passage to England at the start of April.\n\nCaptain Edward John Smith, the most senior of the White Star Line's captains, was transferred from \"Olympic\" to take command of \"Titanic\". Henry Tingle Wilde also came across from \"Olympic\" to take the post of Chief Mate. \"Titanic\"s previously designated Chief Mate and First Officer, William McMaster Murdoch and Charles Lightoller, were bumped down to the ranks of First and Second Officer respectively. The original Second Officer, David Blair, was dropped altogether. The Third Officer was Herbert Pitman MBE, the only deck officer who was not a member of the Royal Naval Reserve. Pitman was the second to last surviving officer.\n\n\"Titanic\"s crew were divided into three principal departments: Deck, with 66 crew; Engine, with 325; and Victualling (pronounced \"vi-tal-ling\"), with 494. The vast majority of the crew were thus not seamen, but were either engineers, firemen, or stokers, responsible for looking after the engines, or stewards and galley staff, responsible for the passengers. Of these, over 97% were male; just 23 of the crew were female, mainly stewardesses. The rest represented a great variety of professions—bakers, chefs, butchers, fishmongers, dishwashers, stewards, gymnasium instructors, laundrymen, waiters, bed-makers, cleaners, and even a printer, who produced a daily newspaper for passengers called the \"Atlantic Daily Bulletin\" with the latest news received by the ship's wireless operators.\n\nMost of the crew signed on in Southampton on 6 April; in all, 699 of the crew came from there, and 40% were natives of the town. A few specialist staff were self-employed or were subcontractors. These included the five postal clerks, who worked for the Royal Mail and the United States Post Office Department, the staff of the First Class \"A La Carte\" Restaurant and the Café Parisien, the radio operators (who were employed by Marconi) and the eight musicians, who were employed by an agency and travelled as second-class passengers. Crew pay varied greatly, from Captain Smith's £105 a month (equivalent to £ today) to the £3 10\"s\" (£ today) that stewardesses earned. The lower-paid victualling staff could, however, supplement their wages substantially through tips from passengers.\n\n\"Titanic\"s passengers numbered approximately 1,317 people: 324 in First Class, 284 in Second Class, and 709 in Third Class. Of these, 869 (66%) were male and 447 (34%) female. There were 107 children aboard, the largest number of which were in Third Class. The ship was considerably under capacity on her maiden voyage, as she could accommodate 2,453 passengers—833 First Class, 614 Second Class, and 1,006 Third Class.\n\nUsually, a high prestige vessel like \"Titanic\" could expect to be fully booked on its maiden voyage. However, a national coal strike in the UK had caused considerable disruption to shipping schedules in the spring of 1912, causing many crossings to be cancelled. Many would-be passengers chose to postpone their travel plans until the strike was over. The strike had finished a few days before \"Titanic\" sailed; however, that was too late to have much of an effect. \"Titanic\" was able to sail on the scheduled date only because coal was transferred from other vessels which were tied up at Southampton, such as and , as well as coal \"Olympic\" had brought back from a previous voyage to New York, which had been stored at the White Star Dock.\n\nSome of the most prominent people of the day booked a passage aboard \"Titanic\", travelling in First Class. Among them (with those who perished marked with a dagger†) were the American millionaire John Jacob Astor IV† and his wife Madeleine Force Astor, industrialist Benjamin Guggenheim†, painter and sculptor Francis Davis Millet†, Macy's owner Isidor Straus† and his wife Ida†, Denver millionairess Margaret \"Molly\" Brown, Sir Cosmo Duff Gordon and his wife, couturière Lucy (Lady Duff-Gordon), Lieut. Col. Arthur Peuchen, writer and historian Archibald Gracie, cricketer and businessman John B. Thayer† with his wife Marian and son Jack, George Dunton Widener† with his wife Eleanor and son Harry†, Noël Leslie, Countess of Rothes, Mr.† and Mrs. Charles M. Hays, Mr. and Mrs. Henry S. Harper, Mr.† and Mrs. Walter D. Douglas, Mr.† and Mrs. George D. Wick, Mr.† and Mrs. Henry B. Harris, Mr.† and Mrs. Arthur L. Ryerson, Mr.† and Mrs.† Hudson J. C. Allison, Mr. and Mrs. Dickinson Bishop, noted architect Edward Austin Kent†, brewery heir Harry Molson†, tennis players Karl Behr and Dick Williams, author and socialite Helen Churchill Candee, future lawyer and suffragette Elsie Bowerman and her mother Edith, journalist and social reformer William Thomas Stead†, journalist and fashion buyer Edith Rosenbaum, Philadelphia and New York socialite Edith Corse Evans†, wealthy divorcée Charlotte Drake Cardeza, French sculptor , author Jacques Futrelle† with his wife May, silent film actress Dorothy Gibson with her mother Pauline, Alfons Simonius-Blumer, Swiss Army Colonel and banker, president of the Swiss Bankverein, James A. Hughes's daughter Eloise, banker Robert Williams Daniel, the chairman of the Holland America Line, , Arthur Wellington Ross's son John H. Ross, Washington Roebling's nephew Washington A. Roebling II, Andrew Saks's daughter Leila Saks Meyer with her husband Edgar Joseph Meyer† (son of Marc Eugene Meyer), senator William A. Clark's nephew Walter M. Clark with his wife Virginia, great-great-grandson of soap manufacturer Andrew Pears, Thomas C. Pears, with wife, John S. Pillsbury's honeymooning grandson John P. Snyder and wife, Nelle, Dorothy Parker's New York manufacturer uncle Martin Rothschild with his wife, Elizabeth, among others.\n\n\"Titanic\"s owner J. P. Morgan was scheduled to travel on the maiden voyage but cancelled at the last minute. Also aboard the ship were the White Star Line's managing director J. Bruce Ismay and \"Titanic\"s designer Thomas Andrews†, who was on board to observe any problems and assess the general performance of the new ship.\n\nThe exact number of people aboard is not known, as not all of those who had booked tickets made it to the ship; about 50 people cancelled for various reasons, and not all of those who boarded stayed aboard for the entire journey. Fares varied depending on class and season. Third Class fares from London, Southampton, or Queenstown cost £7 5\"s\" (equivalent to £ today) while the cheapest First Class fares cost £23 (£ today). The most expensive First Class suites were to have cost up to £870 in high season (£ today).\n\n\"Titanic\"s maiden voyage began on Wednesday, 10 April 1912. Following the embarkation of the crew the passengers began arriving at 9:30 a.m., when the London and South Western Railway's boat train from London Waterloo station reached Southampton Terminus railway station on the quayside, alongside \"Titanic\"s berth. The large number of Third Class passengers meant they were the first to board, with First and Second Class passengers following up to an hour before departure. Stewards showed them to their cabins, and First Class passengers were personally greeted by Captain Smith. Third Class passengers were inspected for ailments and physical impairments that might lead to their being refused entry to the United States – a prospect the White Star Line wished to avoid, as it would have to carry anyone who failed the examination back across the Atlantic. In all, 920 passengers boarded \"Titanic\" at Southampton – 179 First Class, 247 Second Class, and 494 Third Class. Additional passengers were to be picked up at Cherbourg and Queenstown.\n\nThe maiden voyage began at noon, as scheduled. An accident was narrowly averted only a few minutes later, as \"Titanic\" passed the moored liners of the American Line and \"Oceanic\" of the White Star Line, the latter of which would have been her running mate on the service from Southampton. Her huge displacement caused both of the smaller ships to be lifted by a bulge of water and then drop into a trough. \"New York\"s mooring cables could not take the sudden strain and snapped, swinging her around stern-first towards \"Titanic\". A nearby tugboat, \"Vulcan\", came to the rescue by taking \"New York\" under tow, and Captain Smith ordered \"Titanic\"s engines to be put \"full astern\". The two ships avoided a collision by a matter of about . The incident delayed \"Titanic\"s departure for about an hour, while the drifting \"New York\" was brought under control.\n\nAfter making it safely through the complex tides and channels of Southampton Water and the Solent, \"Titanic\" disembarked the Southampton pilot at the Nab Lightship and headed out into the English Channel. She headed for the French port of Cherbourg, a journey of . The weather was windy, very fine but cold and overcast. Because Cherbourg lacked docking facilities for a ship the size of \"Titanic\", tenders had to be used to transfer passengers from shore to ship. The White Star Line operated two at Cherbourg, the and the . Both had been designed specifically as tenders for the \"Olympic\"-class liners and were launched shortly after \"Titanic\". (\"Nomadic\" is today the only White Star Line ship still afloat.) Four hours after \"Titanic\" left Southampton, she arrived at Cherbourg and was met by the tenders. There, 274 additional passengers were taken aboard – 142 First Class, 30 Second Class, and 102 Third Class. Twenty-four passengers left aboard the tenders to be conveyed to shore, having booked only a cross-Channel passage. The process was completed within only 90 minutes and at 8 p.m. \"Titanic\" weighed anchor and left for Queenstown with the weather continuing cold and windy.\n\nAt 11:30 a.m. on Thursday 11 April, \"Titanic\" arrived at Cork Harbour on the south coast of Ireland. It was a partly cloudy but relatively warm day, with a brisk wind. Again, the dock facilities were not suitable for a ship of \"Titanic\"'s size, and tenders were used to bring passengers aboard. In all, 123 passengers boarded \"Titanic\" at Queenstown – three First Class, seven Second Class and 113 Third Class. In addition to the 24 cross-channel passengers who had disembarked at Cherbourg, another seven passengers had booked an overnight passage from Southampton to Queenstown. Among the seven was Father Francis Browne, a Jesuit trainee who was a keen photographer and took many photographs aboard \"Titanic\", including the last-ever known photograph of the ship. A decidedly unofficial departure was that of a crew member, stoker John Coffey, a Queenstown native who sneaked off the ship by hiding under mail bags being transported to shore. \"Titanic\" weighed anchor for the last time at 1:30 p.m. and departed on her westward journey across the Atlantic.\n\n\"Titanic\" was planned to arrive at New York Pier 59 on the morning of 17 April. After leaving Queenstown \"Titanic\" followed the Irish coast as far as Fastnet Rock, a distance of some . From there she travelled along a Great Circle route across the North Atlantic to reach a spot in the ocean known as \"the corner\" south-east of Newfoundland, where westbound steamers carried out a change of course. \"Titanic\" sailed only a few hours past the corner on a rhumb line leg of to Nantucket Shoals Light when she made her fatal contact with an iceberg. The final leg of the journey would have been to Ambrose Light and finally to New York Harbor.\n\nFrom 11 April to local apparent noon the next day, \"Titanic\" covered ; the following day, ; and by noon on the final day of her voyage, . From then until the time of her sinking she travelled another , averaging about .\n\nThe weather cleared as she left Ireland under cloudy skies with a headwind. Temperatures remained fairly mild on Saturday 13 April, but the following day \"Titanic\" crossed a cold weather front with strong winds and waves of up to . These died down as the day progressed until, by the evening of Sunday 14 April, it became clear, calm and very cold.\n\nThe first three days of the voyage from Queenstown had passed without apparent incident. A fire had begun in one of \"Titanic\"'s coal bunkers approximately 10 days prior to the ship's departure, and continued to burn for several days into its voyage, but passengers were unaware of this situation. Fires occurred frequently on board steamships of that day due to spontaneous combustion of the coal. The fires had to be extinguished with fire hoses, by moving the coal on top to another bunker and by removing the burning coal and feeding it into the furnace. The fire was over on 14 April. There has been some speculation and discussion as to whether this fire and attempts to extinguish it may have made the ship more vulnerable to its fate.\n\n\"Titanic\" received a series of warnings from other ships of drifting ice in the area of the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. One of the ships to warn \"Titanic\" was the Atlantic Line's . Nevertheless, the ship continued to steam at full speed, which was standard practice at the time. Although the ship was not trying to set a speed record, timekeeping was a priority, and under prevailing maritime practices, ships were often operated at close to full speed, with ice warnings seen as advisories and reliance placed upon lookouts and the watch on the bridge. It was generally believed that ice posed little danger to large vessels. Close calls with ice were not uncommon, and even head-on collisions had not been disastrous. In 1907 , a German liner, had rammed an iceberg but still had been able to complete her voyage, and Captain Smith himself had declared in 1907 that he \"could not imagine any condition which would cause a ship to founder. Modern shipbuilding has gone beyond that.\"\n\nAt 11:40 p.m. (ship's time) on 14 April, lookout Frederick Fleet spotted an iceberg immediately ahead of \"Titanic\" and alerted the bridge. First Officer William Murdoch ordered the ship to be steered around the obstacle and the engines to be stopped, but it was too late; the starboard side of \"Titanic\" struck the iceberg, creating a series of holes below the waterline. The hull was not punctured by the iceberg, but rather dented such that the hull's seams buckled and separated, allowing water to seep in. Five of the ship's watertight compartments were breached. It soon became clear that the ship was doomed, as she could not survive more than four compartments being flooded. \"Titanic\" began sinking bow-first, with water spilling from compartment to compartment as her angle in the water became steeper.\n\nThose aboard \"Titanic\" were ill-prepared for such an emergency. In accordance with accepted practices of the time, where ships were seen as largely unsinkable and lifeboats were intended to transfer passengers to nearby rescue vessels, \"Titanic\" only had enough lifeboats to carry about half of those on board; if the ship had carried her full complement of about 3,339 passengers and crew, only about a third could have been accommodated in the lifeboats. The crew had not been trained adequately in carrying out an evacuation. The officers did not know how many they could safely put aboard the lifeboats and launched many of them barely half-full. Third-class passengers were largely left to fend for themselves, causing many of them to become trapped below decks as the ship filled with water. The \"women and children first\" protocol was generally followed when loading the lifeboats, and most of the male passengers and crew were left aboard.\n\nAt 2:20 a.m., two hours and 40 minutes after \"Titanic\" struck the iceberg, her rate of sinking suddenly increased as her forward deck dipped underwater, and the sea poured in through open hatches and grates. As her unsupported stern rose out of the water, exposing the propellers, the ship began to break in two between the third and fourth funnels, due to the immense forces on the keel. With the bow underwater, and air trapped in the stern, the stern remained afloat and buoyant for a few minutes longer, rising to a nearly vertical angle with hundreds of people still clinging to it, before sinking. For many years it was generally believed the ship sank in one piece; however, when the wreck was located many years later, it was discovered that the ship had fully broken in two. All remaining passengers and crew were immersed into lethally cold water with a temperature of . Sudden immersion into freezing water typically causes death within minutes, either from cardiac arrest, uncontrollable breathing of water, or cold incapacitation (not, as commonly believed, from hypothermia), and almost all of those in the water died of cardiac arrest or other bodily reactions to freezing water, within 15–30 minutes. Only 13 of them were helped into the lifeboats, though these had room for almost 500 more people.\n\nDistress signals were sent by wireless, rockets, and lamp, but none of the ships that responded was near enough to reach \"Titanic\" before she sank. A radio operator on board the \"Birma\", for instance, estimated that it would be 6 a.m. before the liner could arrive at the scene. Meanwhile, the , which was the last to have been in contact before the collision, saw \"Titanic\"s flares but failed to assist. Around 4 a.m., arrived on the scene in response to \"Titanic\"s earlier distress calls.\n\nAbout 710 people survived the disaster and were conveyed by \"Carpathia\" to New York, \"Titanic\"s original destination, while at least 1,500 people lost their lives. \"Carpathia\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s captain described the place as an ice field that had included 20 large bergs measuring up to high and numerous smaller bergs, as well as ice floes and debris from \"Titanic\"; passengers described being in the middle of a vast white plain of ice, studded with icebergs. This area is now known as Iceberg Alley.\n\n took three days to reach New York after leaving the scene of the disaster. Her journey was slowed by pack ice, fog, thunderstorms and rough seas. She was, however, able to pass news to the outside world by wireless about what had happened. The initial reports were confused, leading the American press to report erroneously on 15 April that \"Titanic\" was being towed to port by the .\n\nLater that day, confirmation came through that \"Titanic\" had been lost and that most of her passengers and crew had died. The news attracted crowds of people to the White Star Line's offices in London, New York, Montreal, Southampton, Liverpool and Belfast. It hit hardest in Southampton, whose people suffered the greatest losses from the sinking. Four out of every five crew members came from this town.\n\n\"Carpathia\" docked at 9:30 p.m. on 18 April at New York's Pier 54 and was greeted by some 40,000 people waiting at the quayside in heavy rain. Immediate relief in the form of clothing and transportation to shelters was provided by the Women's Relief Committee, the Travelers Aid Society of New York, and the Council of Jewish Women, among other organisations. Many of \"Titanic\"s surviving passengers did not linger in New York but headed onwards immediately to relatives' homes. Some of the wealthier survivors chartered private trains to take them home, and the Pennsylvania Railroad laid on a special train free of charge to take survivors to Philadelphia. \"Titanic\"s 214 surviving crew members were taken to the Red Star Line's steamer , where they were accommodated in passenger cabins.\n\n\"Carpathia\" was hurriedly restocked with food and provisions before resuming her journey to Fiume, Austria-Hungary. Her crew were given a bonus of a month's wages by Cunard as a reward for their actions, and some of \"Titanic\"s passengers joined together to give them an additional bonus of nearly £900 (£ today), divided among the crew members.\n\nThe ship's arrival in New York led to a frenzy of press interest, with newspapers competing to be the first to report the survivors' stories. Some reporters bribed their way aboard the pilot boat \"New York\", which guided \"Carpathia\" into harbour, and one even managed to get onto \"Carpathia\" before she docked. Crowds gathered outside newspaper offices to see the latest reports being posted in the windows or on billboards. It took another four days for a complete list of casualties to be compiled and released, adding to the agony of relatives waiting for news of those who had been aboard \"Titanic\".\n\nIn January 1912, the hulls and equipment of \"Titanic\" and \"Olympic\" had been insured through Lloyd's of London and London Marine Insurance. The total coverage was £1,000,000 (£ today) per ship. The policy was to be \"free from all average\" under £150,000, meaning that the insurers would only pay for damage in excess of that sum. The premium, negotiated by brokers Willis Faber & Company (now Willis Group), was 15 \"s\" (75 \"p\") per £100, or £7,500 (£ today) for the term of one year. Lloyd's paid the White Star Line the full sum owed to them within 30 days.\n\nMany charities were set up to help the victims and their families, many of whom lost their sole breadwinner, or, in the case of many Third Class survivors, everything they owned. On 29 April opera stars Enrico Caruso and Mary Garden and members of the Metropolitan Opera raised $12,000 ($300,000 in 2014) in benefits for victims of the disaster by giving special concerts in which versions of \"Autumn\" and \"Nearer My God To Thee\" were part of the programme. In Britain, relief funds were organised for the families of \"Titanic\"s lost crew members, raising nearly £450,000 (£ today). One such fund was still in operation as late as the 1960s.\n\nIn the United States and Britain, more than 60 survivors combined to sue the White Star Line for damages connected to loss of life and baggage. The claims totalled $16,804,112 (appr. $419 million in 2018 USD), which was far in excess of what White Star argued it was responsible for as a Limited liability company under American law. Because the bulk of the litigants were in the United States, White Star petitioned the United States Supreme Court in 1914, which ruled in its favour that it qualified as an LLC and found that the causes of the ship's sinking were largely unforeseeable, rather than due to negligence. This sharply limited the scope of damages survivors and family members were entitled to, prompting them to reduce their claims to some $2.5 million. White Star only settled for $664,000 (appr. $16.56 million in 2018), about 27% of the original total sought by survivors. The settlement was agreed to by 44 of the claimants in December 1915, with $500,000 set aside for the American claimants, $50,000 for the British, and $114,000 to go towards interest and legal expenses.\n\nEven before the survivors arrived in New York, investigations were being planned to discover what had happened, and what could be done to prevent a recurrence. Inquiries were held in both the United States and United Kingdom, the former more robustly critical of traditions and practices, and scathing of the failures involved, and the latter broadly more technical and expert-oriented.\n\nThe U.S. Senate's inquiry into the disaster was initiated on 19 April, a day after \"Carpathia\" arrived in New York. The chairman, Senator William Alden Smith, wanted to gather accounts from passengers and crew while the events were still fresh in their minds. Smith also needed to subpoena all surviving British passengers and crew while they were still on American soil, which prevented them from returning to the UK before the American inquiry was completed on 25 May. The British press condemned Smith as an opportunist, insensitively forcing an inquiry as a means of gaining political prestige and seizing \"his moment to stand on the world stage\". Smith, however, already had a reputation as a campaigner for safety on U.S. railroads, and wanted to investigate any possible malpractices by railroad tycoon J. P. Morgan, \"Titanic\"s ultimate owner.\n\nThe British Board of Trade's inquiry into the disaster was headed by Lord Mersey, and took place between 2 May and 3 July. Being run by the Board of Trade, who had previously approved the ship, it was seen by some as having little interest in its own or White Star's conduct being found negligent.\n\nEach inquiry took testimony from both passengers and crew of \"Titanic\", crew members of Leyland Line's \"Californian\", Captain Arthur Rostron of \"Carpathia\" and other experts. The British inquiry also took far greater expert testimony, making it the longest and most detailed court of inquiry in British history up to that time. The two inquiries reached broadly similar conclusions: the regulations on the number of lifeboats that ships had to carry were out of date and inadequate, Captain Smith had failed to take proper heed of ice warnings, the lifeboats had not been properly filled or crewed, and the collision was the direct result of steaming into a dangerous area at too high a speed.\n\nNeither inquiry's findings listed negligence by IMM or the White Star Line as a factor. The American inquiry concluded that since those involved had followed standard practice the disaster was an act of God. The British inquiry concluded that Smith had followed long-standing practice that had not previously been shown to be unsafe, noting that British ships alone had carried 3.5 million passengers over the previous decade with the loss of just 10 lives, and concluded that Smith had done \"only that which other skilled men would have done in the same position\". Lord Mersey did however find fault with the \"extremely high speed (twenty-two knots) which was maintained\" following numerous ice warnings, noting that without hindsight, \"what was a mistake in the case of the \"Titanic\" would without doubt be negligence in any similar case in the future\".\n\nThe recommendations included strong suggestions for major changes in maritime regulations to implement new safety measures, such as ensuring that more lifeboats were provided, that lifeboat drills were properly carried out and that wireless equipment on passenger ships was manned around the clock. An International Ice Patrol was set up to monitor the presence of icebergs in the North Atlantic, and maritime safety regulations were harmonised internationally through the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea; both measures are still in force today.\n\nOn 18 June 1912, Guglielmo Marconi gave evidence to the Court of Inquiry regarding the telegraphy. Its final report recommended that all liners carry the system and that sufficient operators maintain a constant service.\n\nOne of the most controversial issues examined by the inquiries was the role played by , which had been only a few miles from \"Titanic\" but had not picked up her distress calls or responded to her signal rockets. \"Californian\" had warned \"Titanic\" by radio of the pack ice (that was the reason \"Californian\" had stopped for the night) but was rebuked by \"Titanic\"s senior wireless operator, Jack Phillips.\n\nTestimony before the British inquiry revealed that at 10:10 p.m., \"Californian\" observed the lights of a ship to the south; it was later agreed between Captain Stanley Lord and Third Officer C.V. Groves (who had relieved Lord of duty at 11:10 p.m.) that this was a passenger liner. At 11:50 p.m., the officer had watched that ship's lights flash out, as if she had shut down or turned sharply, and that the port light was now visible. Morse light signals to the ship, upon Lord's order, were made between 11:30 p.m. and 1:00 a.m., but were not acknowledged. If \"Titanic\" was as far from the \"Californian\" as Lord claimed, then he knew, or should have known, that Morse signals would not be visible. A reasonable and prudent course of action would have been to awaken the wireless operator and to instruct him to attempt to contact \"Titanic\" by that method. Had Lord done so, it is possible he could have reached \"Titanic\" in time to save additional lives.\n\nCaptain Lord had gone to the chartroom at 11:00 p.m. to spend the night; however, Second Officer Herbert Stone, now on duty, notified Lord at 1:10 a.m. that the ship had fired five rockets. Lord wanted to know if they were company signals, that is, coloured flares used for identification. Stone said that he did not know and that the rockets were all white. Captain Lord instructed the crew to continue to signal the other vessel with the Morse lamp, and went back to sleep. Three more rockets were observed at 1:50 a.m. and Stone noted that the ship looked strange in the water, as if she were listing. At 2:15 a.m., Lord was notified that the ship could no longer be seen. Lord asked again if the lights had had any colours in them, and he was informed that they were all white.\n\n\"Californian\" eventually responded. At around 5:30 a.m., Chief Officer George Stewart awakened wireless operator Cyril Furmstone Evans, informed him that rockets had been seen during the night, and asked that he try to communicate with any ship. He got news of \"Titanic\"s loss, Captain Lord was notified, and the ship set out to render assistance. She arrived well after \"Carpathia\" had already picked up all the survivors.\n\nThe inquiries found that the ship seen by \"Californian\" was in fact \"Titanic\" and that it would have been possible for \"Californian\" to come to her rescue; therefore, Captain Lord had acted improperly in failing to do so.\n\nThe number of casualties of the sinking is unclear, due to a number of factors. These include confusion over the passenger list, which included some names of people who cancelled their trip at the last minute, and the fact that several passengers travelled under aliases for various reasons and were therefore double-counted on the casualty lists. The death toll has been put at between 1,490 and 1,635 people. The tables below use figures from the British Board of Trade report on the disaster. While the use of Marconi wireless system did not achieve the result of bringing a rescue ship to the \"Titanic\" before it sank, the use of wireless did bring the \"Carpathia\" in time to rescue some of the survivors who otherwise would have perished due to exposure.\n\nThe water temperature in the area where \"Titanic\" sank, which was well below normal, also contributed to the rapid death of many passengers during the sinking. Water temperature readings taken around the time of the accident were reported to be . Typical water temperatures were normally in the mid-40 °F range during mid-April. The coldness of the water was a critical factor, often causing death within minutes for many of those in the water.\n\nFewer than a third of those aboard \"Titanic\" survived the disaster. Some survivors died shortly afterwards; injuries and the effects of exposure caused the deaths of several of those brought aboard \"Carpathia\". The figures show stark differences in the survival rates of the different classes aboard \"Titanic\". Although only 3% of first-class women were lost, 54% of those in third class died. Similarly, five of six first-class and all second-class children survived, but 52 of the 79 in third class perished. The differences by gender were even bigger: nearly all female crew members, first and second class passengers were saved. Men from the First Class died at a higher rate than women from the Third Class. In total, 50% of the children survived, 20% of the men and 75% of the women.\n\nThe last living survivor, Millvina Dean from England, who at only nine weeks old was the youngest passenger on board, died aged 97 on 31 May 2009. Two special survivors were the stewardess Violet Jessop and the stoker Arthur John Priest, who survived the sinkings of both \"Titanic\" and \"HMHS Britannic\" and were aboard \"RMS Olympic\" when she was rammed in 1911.\n\nOnce the massive loss of life became known, White Star Line chartered the cable ship CS \"Mackay-Bennett\" from Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada, to retrieve bodies. Three other Canadian ships followed in the search: the cable ship \"Minia\", lighthouse supply ship \"Montmagny\" and sealing vessel \"Algerine\". Each ship left with embalming supplies, undertakers, and clergy. Of the 333 victims that were eventually recovered, 328 were retrieved by the Canadian ships and five more by passing North Atlantic steamships.\n\nThe first ship to reach the site of the sinking, the CS \"Mackay-Bennett\", found so many bodies that the embalming supplies aboard were quickly exhausted. Health regulations required that only embalmed bodies could be returned to port. Captain Larnder of the \"Mackay-Bennett\" and undertakers aboard decided to preserve only the bodies of first class passengers, justifying their decision by the need to visually identify wealthy men to resolve any disputes over large estates. As a result, many third class passengers and crew were buried at sea. Larnder identified many of those buried at sea as crew members by their clothing, and stated that as a mariner, he himself would be contented to be buried at sea.\n\nBodies recovered were preserved for transport to Halifax, the closest city to the sinking with direct rail and steamship connections. The Halifax coroner, John Henry Barnstead, developed a detailed system to identify bodies and safeguard personal possessions. Relatives from across North America came to identify and claim bodies. A large temporary morgue was set up in the curling rink of the Mayflower Curling Club and undertakers were called in from all across eastern Canada to assist. Some bodies were shipped to be buried in their home towns across North America and Europe. About two-thirds of the bodies were identified. Unidentified victims were buried with simple numbers based on the order in which their bodies were discovered. The majority of recovered victims, 150 bodies, were buried in three Halifax cemeteries, the largest being Fairview Lawn Cemetery followed by the nearby Mount Olivet and Baron de Hirsch cemeteries.\n\nIn mid-May 1912, recovered three bodies over from the site of the sinking who were among the original occupants of Collapsible A. When Fifth Officer Harold Lowe and six crewmen returned to the wreck site sometime after the sinking in a lifeboat to pick up survivors, they rescued a dozen males and one female from Collapsible A, but left the dead bodies of three of its occupants. After their retrieval from Collapsible A by \"Oceanic\", the bodies were buried at sea.\n\nThe last \"Titanic\" body recovered was steward James McGrady, Body No. 330, found by the chartered Newfoundland sealing vessel \"Algerine\" on 22 May and buried at Fairview Lawn Cemetery in Halifax on 12 June.\n\nOnly 333 bodies of \"Titanic\" victims were recovered, one in five of the over 1,500 victims. Some bodies sank with the ship while currents quickly dispersed bodies and wreckage across hundreds of miles making them difficult to recover. By June, one of the last search ships reported that life jackets supporting bodies were coming apart and releasing bodies to sink.\n\n\"Titanic\" was long thought to have sunk in one piece and, over the years, many schemes were put forward for raising the wreck. None came to fruition. The fundamental problem was the sheer difficulty of finding and reaching a wreck that lies over below the surface, in a location where the water pressure is over . A number of expeditions were mounted to find \"Titanic\" but it was not until 1 September 1985 that a Franco-American expedition led by Robert Ballard succeeded.\n\nThe team discovered that \"Titanic\" had in fact split apart, probably near or at the surface, before sinking to the seabed. The separated bow and stern sections lie about a third of a mile (0.6 km) apart in Titanic Canyon off the coast of Newfoundland. They are located from the inaccurate coordinates given by \"Titanic\"s radio operators on the night of her sinking, and approximately from Halifax and from New York.\n\nBoth sections struck the sea bed at considerable speed, causing the bow to crumple and the stern to collapse entirely. The bow is by far the more intact section and still contains some surprisingly intact interiors. In contrast, the stern is completely wrecked; its decks have pancaked down on top of each other and much of the hull plating was torn off and lies scattered across the sea floor. The much greater level of damage to the stern is probably due to structural damage incurred during the sinking. Thus weakened, the remainder of the stern was flattened by the impact with the sea bed.\n\nThe two sections are surrounded by a debris field measuring approximately . It contains hundreds of thousands of items, such as pieces of the ship, furniture, dinnerware and personal items, which fell from the ship as she sank or were ejected when the bow and stern impacted on the sea floor. The debris field was also the last resting place of a number of \"Titanic\"s victims. Most of the bodies and clothes were consumed by sea creatures and bacteria, leaving pairs of shoes and boots—which have proved to be inedible—as the only sign that bodies once lay there.\n\nSince its initial discovery, the wreck of \"Titanic\" has been revisited on numerous occasions by explorers, scientists, filmmakers, tourists and salvagers, who have recovered thousands of items from the debris field for conservation and public display. The ship's condition has deteriorated significantly over the years, particularly from accidental damage by submersibles but mostly because of an accelerating rate of growth of iron-eating bacteria on the hull. In 2006, it was estimated that within 50 years the hull and structure of \"Titanic\" would eventually collapse entirely, leaving only the more durable interior fittings of the ship intermingled with a pile of rust on the sea floor.\nMany artefacts from \"Titanic\" have been recovered from the sea bed by RMS Titanic Inc., which exhibits them in touring exhibitions around the world and in a permanent exhibition at the Luxor Las Vegas hotel and casino in Las Vegas, Nevada. A number of other museums exhibit artefacts either donated by survivors or retrieved from the floating bodies of victims of the disaster.\n\nOn 16 April 2012, the day after the 100th anniversary of the sinking, photos were released showing possible human remains resting on the ocean floor. The photos, taken by Robert Ballard during an expedition led by NOAA in 2004, show a boot and a coat close to \"Titanic\"'s stern which experts called \"compelling evidence\" that it is the spot where somebody came to rest, and that human remains could be buried in the sediment beneath them. The wreck of the \"Titanic\" falls under the scope of the 2001 UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Underwater Cultural Heritage. This means that all states party to the convention will prohibit the pillaging, commercial exploitation, sale and dispersion of the wreck and its artefacts. Because of the location of the wreck in international waters and the lack of any exclusive jurisdiction over the wreckage area, the convention provides a state co-operation system, by which states inform each other of any potential activity concerning ancient shipwreck sites, like the \"Titanic\", and co-operate to prevent unscientific or unethical interventions.\n\nAfter the disaster, recommendations were made by both the British and American Boards of Inquiry stating that ships should carry enough lifeboats for all aboard, mandated lifeboat drills would be implemented, lifeboat inspections would be conducted, etc. Many of these recommendations were incorporated into the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea passed in 1914. The convention has been updated by periodic amendments, with a completely new version adopted in 1974. Signatories to the convention followed up with national legislation to implement the new standards. For example in Britain, new \"Rules for Life Saving Appliances\" were passed by the Board of Trade on 8 May 1914 and then applied at a meeting of British steamship companies in Liverpool in June 1914.\n\nFurther, the United States government passed the Radio Act of 1912. This act, along with the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, stated that radio communications on passenger ships would be operated 24 hours a day, along with a secondary power supply, so as not to miss distress calls. Also, the Radio Act of 1912 required ships to maintain contact with vessels in their vicinity as well as coastal onshore radio stations. In addition, it was agreed in the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea that the firing of red rockets from a ship must be interpreted as a sign of need for help. Once the Radio Act of 1912 was passed it was agreed that rockets at sea would be interpreted as distress signals only, thus removing any possible misinterpretation from other ships.\n\nFinally, the disaster led to the formation and international funding of the International Ice Patrol, an agency of the United States Coast Guard that to the present day monitors and reports on the location of North Atlantic Ocean icebergs that could pose a threat to transatlantic sea traffic. Coast Guard aircraft conduct the primary reconnaissance. In addition, information is collected from ships operating in or passing through the ice area. Except for the years of the two World Wars, the International Ice Patrol has worked each season since 1913. During the period there has not been a single reported loss of life or property due to collision with an iceberg in the patrol area. In 1912, the Board of Trade chartered the barque to act as a weather ship in the Grand Banks of Newfoundland, keeping a look-out for icebergs. A Marconi wireless was installed to enable her to communicate with stations on the coast of Labrador and Newfoundland.\n\n\"Titanic\" has gone down in history as the ship that was called unsinkable. For more than 100 years, she has been the inspiration of fiction and non-fiction. She is commemorated by monuments for the dead and by museums exhibiting artefacts from the wreck. Just after the sinking, memorial postcards sold in huge numbers together with memorabilia ranging from tin candy boxes to plates, whiskey jiggers, and even black mourning teddy bears. Several survivors wrote books about their experiences but it was not until 1955 the first historically accurate book \"A Night to Remember\" was published.\n\nThe first film about the disaster, \"Saved from the Titanic\", was released only 29 days after the ship sank and had an actual survivor as its star—the silent film actress Dorothy Gibson. The British film \"A Night to Remember\" (1958) is still widely regarded as the most historically accurate movie portrayal of the sinking. The most financially successful by far has been James Cameron's \"Titanic\" (1997), which became the highest-grossing film in history up to that time, as well as the winner of 11 Oscars at the 70th Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director for Cameron.\n\nThe \"Titanic\" disaster was commemorated through a variety of memorials and monuments to the victims, erected in several English-speaking countries and in particular in cities that had suffered notable losses. These included Southampton, Liverpool and Belfast in the United Kingdom; New York and Washington, D.C. in the United States; and Cobh (formerly Queenstown) in Ireland. A number of museums around the world have displays on \"Titanic\", the most prominent is in Belfast, the ship's birthplace (see next section).\n\nRMS Titanic Inc., which is authorised to salvage the wreck site, has a permanent \"Titanic\" exhibition at the Luxor Las Vegas hotel and casino in Nevada which features a 22-ton slab of the ship's hull. It also runs an exhibition which travels around the world. In Nova Scotia, Halifax's Maritime Museum of the Atlantic displays items that were recovered from the sea a few days after the disaster. They include pieces of woodwork such as panelling from the ship's First Class Lounge and an original deckchair, as well as objects removed from the victims. In 2012 the centenary was marked by plays, radio programmes, parades, exhibitions and special trips to the site of the sinking together with commemorative stamps and coins.\n\nIn a frequently commented-on literary coincidence, Morgan Robertson authored a novel called \"Futility\" in 1898 about a fictional British passenger liner with the plot bearing a number of similarities to the \"Titanic\" disaster. In the novel the ship is the SS \"Titan\", a four-stacked liner, the largest in the world and considered unsinkable. And like the \"Titanic\", she sinks after hitting an iceberg and does not have enough lifeboats.\n\nOnly recently has the significance of \"Titanic\" most notably been given by Northern Ireland where it was built by Harland and Wolff in the capital city, Belfast. While the rest of the world embraced the glory and tragedy of \"Titanic\", in its birth city, \"Titanic\" remained a taboo subject throughout the 20th century. The sinking brought tremendous grief and was a blow to the city's pride. But its shipyard was also a place many Catholics regarded as hostile. In the latter half of the century, during a 30-year sectarian conflict \"Titanic\" was a reminder of the lack of civil rights that in part contributed towards the Troubles. While the fate of Titanic remained a well-known story within local households throughout the 20th century, commercial investment around RMS \"Titanic\" legacy was modest because of these issues.\n\nAfter the Troubles and Good Friday Agreement, the number of overseas tourists visiting Northern Ireland dramatically increased to 30 million (100% rise by 2008). It was subsequently identified in the Northern Ireland Tourism Board's Strategic Framework for Action 2004–2007 that the significance of and interest in \"Titanic\" globally (partly due to the 1997 film \"Titanic\") was not being fully exploited as a tourist attraction. Thus, \"Titanic\" Belfast® was spearheaded, along with some smaller projects, such as a \"Titanic\" memorial.\n\nIn 2012 on the ship's centenary, \"Titanic\" Belfast visitor attraction was opened on the site of the shipyard where \"Titanic\" was built. It was Northern Ireland's second most visited tourist attraction with almost 700,000 visitors in 2016.\n\nDespite over 1,600 ships being built by Harland and Wolff in Belfast Harbour, Queen's Island became renamed after its most famous ship, Titanic Quarter in 1995. Once a sensitive story, \"Titanic\" is now considered one of Northern Ireland's most iconic and uniting symbols.\n\nIn late August 2018, several groups were vying for the right to purchase the 5,500 \"Titanic\" relics that were an asset of the bankrupt Premier Exhibitions. Eventually, \"Titanic\" Belfast, Titanic Foundation Limited and the National Museums Northern Ireland joined with the National Maritime Museum as a consortium that was raising money to purchase the 5,500 artifacts. The group intended to keep all of the items together as a single exhibit. Oceanographer Robert Ballard said he favored this bid since it would ensure that the memorabilia would be permanently displayed in Belfast (where the Titanic was built) and in Greenwich. The museums were critical of the bid process set by the Bankruptcy court in Jacksonville, Florida. The minimum bid for the 11 October 2018 auction was set at US$21.5 million (£16.5m) and the consortium did not have enough funding to meet that amount. On 17 October 2018, \"The New York Times\" reported that a consortium of three hedge funds—Apollo Global Management, Alta Fundamental Advisers, and PacBridge Capital Partners—had paid US$19.5 million for the collection.\n\nDiagram of RMS \"Titanic\" showing the arrangement of the bulkheads in red. Compartments in the engineering area at the bottom of the ship are noted in blue. Names of decks are listed to the right (starting at top on Boat deck, going from A through F and ending on Lower deck at the waterline). Areas of damage made by the iceberg are shown in green. The scale's smallest unit is and its total length is .\n\nA cutaway diagram of \"Titanic\"s midship section.\nS: Sun deck. A: Upper promenade deck. B: Promenade deck, glass-enclosed. C: Saloon deck. E: Main deck. F: Middle deck. G: Lower deck: cargo, coal bunkers, boilers, engines. (a) Welin davits with lifeboats, (b) Bilge, (c) Double bottom\n\nComparison of Titanic in size to modern means of transport and a person\n\n\nThere have been several proposals and studies for a project to build a replica ship based on the Titanic. A project by South African businessman Sarel Gaus was abandoned in 2006, and a project by Australian businessman Clive Palmer was announced in 2012, known as the \"Titanic II\".\n\nA Chinese shipbuilding company known as Wuchang Shipbuilding Industry Group Co., Ltd commenced construction in January 2014 to build a replica ship of the \"Titanic\" for use in a resort. The vessel will house many features of the original, such as a ballroom, dining hall, theatre, first-class cabins, economy cabins and swimming pool. Tourists will be able to reside inside the \"Titanic\" during their time at the resort. It will be permanently docked at the resort and feature an audiovisual simulation of the sinking, which has caused some criticism.\n\nThe RMS \"Olympic\" was the sister ship of the \"Titanic\". The interior decoration of the dining salon and the grand staircase were in identical style and created by the same craftsmen. Large parts of the interior of the \"Olympic\" were later sold and are now in the White Swan Hotel, Alnwick, which gives an impression of how the interior of the \"Titanic\" looked.\n\n\nBooks:\nJournals and news articles:\nInvestigations:\n\n"}
{"id": "15926329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15926329", "title": "Rufim Boljević", "text": "Rufim Boljević\n\nRufim Boljević (; 1673 – d. January 1685) was the Serbian Orthodox Metropolitan (\"vladika\") of Cetinje from 1662 or 1673 until his death in January 1685. He succeeded Mardarije Kornečanin (fl. 1640–59), and was succeeded by Vasilije Veljekrajski.\n\nBoljević was from Crmnica, and belonged to the Plamenac brotherhood, and is scarcely mentioned as Rufim Plamenac (Руфим Пламенац).\n\nIt is generally believed he succeeded Mardarije Kornečanin, mentioned between 1640 and 1659. The Cetinje see seems to have been unseated from 1660 until early 1662, when an unnamed Metropolitan of Cetinje is mentioned in a source from the Bay of Kotor. Boljević is mentioned in sources from 1673, 1675, 1682 and 1685. He funded the construction of water reservoir in Hilandar before being ortinated as Vladika. It has been theorized that it was Boljević who was mentioned in 1662 (by I. Stjepčević and P. Kovijančić). If he indeed had taken the seat in 1662, it means that he (as the Metropolitan) was one of two arbiters in the feud between \"harambaša\" Lazarić and Karučan from Crmnica, mentioned on November 2, 1662; as Boljević was from Crmnica, this has been taken as proof. It would also mean that he was active during the Cretan War (1645–69), in which many hajduks (brigands) from the region of Montenegro participated in, in the service of the Republic of Venice. A notable leader was Bajo Pivljanin.\n\nAfter the Cretan War, he was an active protester against Catholic propaganda, famous for his conversion of Kuči Vojvode Lale Drekalov from catholicism to orthodoxy. He had notable influence on the Montenegrin tribes, meeting with common folk and stopped blood revenge, and cursing evil-doers. He had been a staunch supporter of the Republic of Venice, and upon his death in January 1685, the Venetian Senate sent a letter to the Venetian governor of Kotor, expressing their \"sorrow for the Metropolitan of Cetinje, who always showed interest in our service\". He was the most loyal friend of Venice of his time. He was buried in Gornje Brčele monastery.\n\nHe was succeeded by Vasilije Veljekrajski, who is only mentioned by Nićifor Dučić, without a lifespan or service period.\n\nA descendant of his, Arsenije Plamenac, also served as Metropolitan (1781–1784).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14926951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14926951", "title": "Samaritan's dilemma", "text": "Samaritan's dilemma\n\nThe Samaritan's dilemma is a dilemma in the act of charity. It hinges on the idea that when presented with charity, in some location such as a soup kitchen, a person will act in one of two ways: using the charity to improve their situation, or coming to rely on charity as a means of survival. The term \"Samaritan's dilemma\" was coined by economist James M. Buchanan.\n\nThe argument against charity frequently cites the Samaritan's dilemma as reason to forgo charitable contributions. It is also a common argument against communism and socialism, claiming that state aid is equivalent to charity, and that the beneficiaries of such aid will become slothful or otherwise negligent members of society. The more aid that is received the less likely the recipient will seek out a permanent solution for their condition. \n\nThe dilemma's name is a reference to the biblical Parable of the Good Samaritan.\n\nA study published in 2016 looked at 5089 major natural disasters in 81 developing countries over a 33 year period. Results showed that among the countries that received natural disaster relief had less incentives to provide their own natural disaster protections. This effect is exacerbated the poorer and less-developed the country is that receives the aid. \n\nMuch foreign aid comes in the form of monetary compensation for damages or direct relief such as food or water. This type of direct aid does not provide any incentive for the recipient to become independent. By introducing incentives that developing countries can meet by building up natural disaster protection the effects of the Samaritan's dilemma can be effectively mitigated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49112319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49112319", "title": "Samuel Akeroyde", "text": "Samuel Akeroyde\n\nSamuel Akeroyde (also \"Ackroyd\", \"Ackroyde\", \"Acroyd\"; fl. 1684-1706) was a popular and prolific composer of songs in the latter part of the 17th century. He was born in Yorkshire. He wrote more than 100 songs.\n\nMany of his compositions are contained in collections of the period, including: Thomas d'Urfey's Third Collection of Songs (1685); \"The Theatre of Musick\" (1685-1687); \"Vinculum Societatis\" (1687); \"Comes Amoris\" (1687-1694); \"The Banquet of Musick\" (1688-1692); \"Thesaurus Musicus\" (1693-1696); and in \"The Gentleman's Journal\" (1692-1694). He was also a contributor to the Third Part of D'Urfey's \"Don Quixote\" (1696).\n"}
{"id": "6293868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6293868", "title": "Sir Hugh Acland, 5th Baronet", "text": "Sir Hugh Acland, 5th Baronet\n\nSir Hugh Acland, 5th Baronet (ca. 1639 – 9 March 1714) was an English Member of Parliament, from a family of Devonshire gentry. He obtained a confirmation of the family baronetcy in 1678, and served as a Member of Parliament for two boroughs in Devon in 1679 and from 1685 to 1687. Never very active in national politics, he was one of the many Tories estranged by James II's pro-Catholicism, but remained a Tory after the Glorious Revolution. He continued to hold local office in Devon off and on until his death in 1714, when he was succeeded by his grandson.\n\nHe was a younger son of Sir John Acland, 1st Baronet and his wife Elizabeth. He matriculated at Exeter College, Oxford on 27 November 1652 and received his B.A. on 22 June 1655.\n\nHe was appointed a justice of the peace for Devon in 1670, and in 1672, he succeeded his nephew Arthur as baronet and inherited an estate worth £2,000 per year. In 1673, he was appointed a commissioner for assessment in Devon, and unsuccessfully contested a by-election at Tiverton following the death of Sir Thomas Carew, 1st Baronet. He was appointed to the commission on recusants in 1675 and made a freeman of Exeter; in 1676, he was appointed a deputy lieutenant of the county.\n\nThe family baronetcy was of somewhat uncertain status; the letters patent to his father were either lost during the confusion of the English Civil War or never passed the seals. Sir Hugh's predecessors in the baronetcy had generally died in their minorities and had not pursued the claim. Hugh obtained new letters patent dated 21 January 1678 which confirmed the original grant and granted precedence to the baronetcy of the original date of issue, 24 June 1644.\n\nAcland again stood for Parliament for Barnstaple in the spring 1679 election and was successfully returned. He was not an active member and, though thought to be a Court supporter, was absent from the division on the exclusion bill. He did not stand again in the fall 1679 election. In 1680, he left the Devon committee for assessment; he was already a colonel of militia foot by this time.\n\nHe stood for Devon in the 1681 election but was defeated. Appointed a justice of the peace and an alderman for Tiverton in 1683, he was returned to Parliament for that constituency as a Tory in 1685, and elected mayor of the town the following year. He was also appointed a JP for South Molton in 1684. After the collapse of the Monmouth Rebellion, he was appointed a commissioner for rebels' estates. Once again, he was largely inactive in Parliament, serving on the committee to prevent the export of wool. In 1687, the Tiverton corporation was remodelled by quo warranto proceedings and he was removed from his offices there. In July 1688 he joined with many of the Devonshire gentry in repeating the temporizing answer given by Sir Edward Seymour to the \"Three Questions\" of James II, and was consequently dismissed from his county offices.\n\nAcland was reappointed a JP for Devon in October 1688 and served on the commission for assessment again from 1689 to 1690. He was High Sheriff of Devon in 1690. He refused to sign the Association in 1696 and was removed from the bench at this time. Reappointed in 1700, he apparently refused a deputy lieutenancy in 1701 due to a quarrel with Sir Edward Seymour. Off the bench again in 1702, he was appointed to the deputy lieutenancy again in 1703 and a JP for the third time in about 1704. He continued to serve in these posts throughout the reign of Queen Anne, and died on 9 March 1714.\n\nHe married Anne, daughter of Sir Thomas Daniel of Beswick Hall, Yorkshire, on 19 March 1674 and had seven children:\n\nOn his death in 1714 he was succeeded in the baronetcy by his grandson, his eldest son John having predeceased him. He was buried on 9 March 1713/4 at Broadclyst.\n"}
{"id": "4914914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4914914", "title": "Sultan Ibragimov", "text": "Sultan Ibragimov\n\nSultan-Ahmed Magomedsalihovich Ibragimov (; born 8 March 1975) is a Russian former professional boxer who competed from 2002 to 2008, and held the WBO heavyweight title from 2007 to 2008. As an amateur he won silver medals at the 2000 Olympics and 2000 European Championships, and bronze at the 2001 World Championships, all in the heavyweight division.\n\nIbragimov is only the sixth southpaw world heavyweight champion in history: the others being Michael Moorer, Corrie Sanders, Chris Byrd, Ruslan Chagaev, and Charles Martin.\n\n2000 Silver medal as a heavyweight in the 2000 Summer Olympics.\n<br>Results:\n\n2000 Silver medal as a heavyweight at the European Championship in Tampere, Finland.\n<br>Results:\n\n2001 Bronze medal at the World Championships in Belfast, Northern Ireland.\n<br>Results:\n\nIbragimov turned professional and rose through the heavyweight ranks by knocking out journeymen Al Cole, Zuri Lawrence, Friday Ahunanya and Lance Whitaker. On 28 July 2007, Ibragimov's record improved to 19-0-1 when he fought to a draw with Ray Austin in a grueling 12 round IBF heavyweight title eliminator.\n\nDespite the draw against Ray Austin, Ibragimov received a title shot from another sanctioning organization, the WBO. He was scheduled to challenge Shannon Briggs for the WBO heavyweight title on 10 March 2007, but because Briggs became ill with pneumonia, Ibragimov instead faced Javier Mora at Madison Square Garden in New York on that date. Ibragimov knocked out Mora 46 seconds into the first round. This win broke the record for the quickest knockout in a main event bout in Madison Square Garden, which was previously held by Lee Savold who defeated Buddy Walker in 1948.\n\nIbragimov faced the heavy-handed WBO Heavyweight Champion Shannon Briggs in Atlantic City, New Jersey on 2 June 2007. With an exception of an early and late pressure by Briggs in round one & twelve, rounds two to eleven were mostly controlled by Ibragimov, out-boxing his larger opponent with fast combinations.\n\nOn 13 October 2007, Sultan Ibragimov won his first title defense against the aging former heavyweight champion Evander Holyfield by unanimous decision for the WBO heavyweight title at Khodynka Arena in Moscow, Russia.\n\nIbragimov fought Wladimir Klitschko on 23 February 2008 at Madison Square Garden. This fight was a unification bout laying the two fighters' IBF, IBO, and WBO titles on the line. This was the only title unification since 1999 when Lennox Lewis and Evander Holyfield fought.\n\nHe was defeated by Wladimir Klitschko by way of a unanimous decision. Ibragimov had his moments, but for the most part was unable to get past Klitschko's long jab and occasional straight right hand, he struggled to land any significant punches on his larger opponent.\n\nIn February 2009 there were rumors about Ibragimov's retirement from boxing following his loss to Wladimir Klitschko, \nwhich were later confirmed in July 2009. Despite a largely undistinguished career, Ibragimov retired as one of only five heavyweight champions, along side Gene Tunney, Rocky Marciano, Riddick Bowe and Nicolai Valuev to have never suffered a stoppage defeat.\n\nIbragimov is of Avar Dagestani descent, and is Muslim by faith. His cousin, Timur Ibragimov, is also a former heavyweight professional boxer. However, while Sultan competed for Russia, Timur represented Uzbekistan.\n\n"}
{"id": "36464530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36464530", "title": "Symmetry-protected topological order", "text": "Symmetry-protected topological order\n\nSymmetry-protected topological (SPT) order\nis a kind of order in zero-temperature quantum-mechanical states of matter that have a symmetry and a finite energy gap.\n\nTo derive the results in a most-invariant way, renormalization group methods are used (leading to equivalence classes corresponding to certain fixed points). The SPT order has the following defining properties:\n\n(a) \"distinct SPT states with a given symmetry cannot be smoothly deformed into each other without a phase transition, if the deformation preserves the symmetry\". <br>\n(b) \"however, they all can be smoothly deformed into the same trivial product state without a phase transition, if the symmetry is broken during the deformation\".\n\nThe above definition works for both bosonic systems and fermionic systems, which leads to the notions of bosonic SPT order and fermionic SPT order.\n\nUsing the notion of quantum entanglement, we can say that SPT states\nare short-range entangled states \"with a symmetry\" (by contrast: for long-range entanglement see topological order, which is not related to the famous EPR paradox).\nSince short-range entangled states have only trivial topological orders \nwe may also refer the SPT order as Symmetry Protected \"Trivial\" order.\n\n\nSPT states are short-range entangled while topologically ordered states are long-range entangled.\nBoth intrinsic topological order, and also SPT order, can sometimes have protected gapless boundary excitations. The difference is subtle: the gapless boundary excitations in intrinsic topological order can be robust against any local perturbations, while the gapless boundary excitations in SPT order are robust only against local perturbations \"that do not break the symmetry\". So the gapless boundary excitations in intrinsic topological order are topologically protected, while the gapless boundary excitations in SPT order are \"symmetry protected\".\n\nWe also know that an intrinsic topological order has emergent fractional charge, emergent fractional statistics, and emergent gauge theory. In contrast, a SPT order has no emergent fractional charge/fractional statistics for finite-energy excitations, nor emergent gauge theory (due to its short-range entanglement). Note that the monodromy defects discussed above are not finite-energy excitations in the spectrum of the Hamiltonian, but defects created by modifying the Hamiltonian.\n\nThe first example of SPT order is the Haldane phase of odd-integer-spin chain. It is a SPT phase protected by SO(3) spin rotation symmetry. \nA more well known example of SPT order is the topological insulator of non-interacting fermions, a SPT phase protected by U(1) and time reversal symmetry.\n\nOn the other hand, fractional quantum Hall states are not SPT states. They are states with (intrinsic) topological order and long-range entanglements.\n\nUsing the notion of quantum entanglement, one obtains the following general picture of gapped\nphases at zero temperature. All gapped zero-temperature phases can be divided into two classes: long-range entangled phases (\"ie\" phases with intrinsic topological order) and short-range entangled phases (\"ie\" phases with no intrinsic topological order). All short-range entangled phases can be further divided into three classes: symmetry-breaking phases, SPT phases, and their mix (symmetry breaking order and SPT order can appear together).\n\nIt is well known that symmetry-breaking orders are described by group theory. For bosonic SPT phases with pure gauge anomalous boundary, it was shown that they are classified by group cohomology theory: those (d+1)D SPT states with symmetry \"G\" are labeled by the elements in group cohomology class\nformula_1.\nFor other (d+1)D SPT states \n\nFrom the above results, many new quantum states of matter are predicted, including bosonic topological insulators (the SPT states protected U(1) and time-reversal symmetry) and bosonic topological superconductors (the SPT states protected by time-reversal symmetry), as well as many other new SPT states protected by other symmetries.\n\nA list of bosonic SPT states from group cohomology formula_4 (formula_5 = time-reversal-symmetry group)\n\nThe phases before \"+\" come from formula_1. The phases after \"+\" come from formula_2.\nJust like group theory can give us 230 crystal structures in 3+1D, group cohomology theory can give us various SPT phases in any dimensions with any on-site symmetry groups.\n\nOn the other hand, the fermionic SPT orders are described by group super-cohomology theory. So the group (super-)cohomology theory allows us to construct many\nSPT orders even for interacting systems, which include interacting topological insulator/superconductor.\n\nUsing the notions of quantum entanglement and SPT order, one can obtain\na complete classification of all 1D gapped quantum phases.\n\nFirst, it is shown that there is no (intrinsic) topological order in 1D (\"ie\" all 1D gapped states\nare short-range entangled).\nThus, if the Hamiltonians have no symmetry, all their 1D gapped quantum states belong to one phase—the phase of trivial product states.\nOn the other hand, if the Hamiltonians do have a symmetry, their 1D gapped quantum states \nare either symmetry-breaking phases, SPT phases, and their mix.\n\nSuch an understanding allows one to classify all 1D gapped quantum phases: All 1D gapped phases are classified by\nthe following three mathematical objects: formula_8 , where formula_9 is the symmetry group of the Hamiltonian, formula_10 the symmetry group of the ground states, and formula_11 the second group cohomology class of formula_10. (Note that formula_13 classifies the projective representations of formula_14.) If there is no symmetry breaking (\"ie\" formula_15), the 1D gapped phases are classified by the projective representations of symmetry group formula_9.\n\n"}
{"id": "16280135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16280135", "title": "Systems art", "text": "Systems art\n\nSystems art is art influenced by cybernetics, and systems theory, that reflects on natural systems, social systems and social signs of the art world itself.\n\nSystems art emerged as part of the first wave of the conceptual art movement extended in the 1960s and 1970s. Closely related and overlapping terms are \"Anti-form movement\", \"Cybernetic art\", \"Generative Systems\", \"Process art\", \"Systems aesthetic\", \"Systemic art\", \"Systemic painting\" and \"Systems sculptures\".\n\nBy the early 1960s Minimalism had emerged as an abstract movement in art (with roots in geometric abstraction via Malevich, the Bauhaus and Mondrian) which rejected the idea of relational, and subjective painting, the complexity of Abstract expressionist surfaces, and the emotional zeitgeist and polemics present in the arena of Action painting. Minimalism argued that extreme simplicity could capture all of the sublime representation needed in art. The term Systematic art was coined by Lawrence Alloway in 1966 as a description of the method artists, such as Kenneth Noland, Al Held and Frank Stella, were using for composing abstract paintings.\n\nAssociated with painters such as Frank Stella, minimalism in painting, as opposed to other areas, is a modernist movement. Depending on the context, minimalism might be construed as a precursor to the postmodern movement. Seen from the perspective of writers who sometimes classify it as a postmodern movement, early minimalism began and succeeded as a modernist movement to yield advanced works, but which partially abandoned this project when a few artists changed direction in favor of the anti-form movement.\n\nIn the late 1960s the term Postminimalism was coined by Robert Pincus-Witten to describe minimalist derived art which had content and contextual overtones which minimalism rejected, and was applied to the work of Eva Hesse, Keith Sonnier, Richard Serra and new work by former minimalists Robert Smithson, Robert Morris, Bruce Nauman, Sol LeWitt, and Barry Le Va, and others. Minimalists like Donald Judd, Dan Flavin, Carl Andre, Agnes Martin, John McCracken and others continued to produce their late modernist paintings and sculpture for the remainder of their careers.\n\nAudio feedback and the use of tape loops, sound synthesis and computer generated compositions reflected a cybernetic awareness of information, systems and cycles. Such techniques became widespread in the 1960s in the music industry. The visual effects of electronic feedback became a focus of artistic research in the late 1960s, when video equipment first reached the consumer market. Steina and Woody Vasulka, for example, used \"all manner and combination of audio and video signals to generate electronic feedback in their respective of corresponding media.\"\n\nWith related work by Edward Ihnatowicz, Wen-Ying Tsai and cybernetician Gordon Pask and the animist kinetics of Robert Breer and Jean Tinguely, the 1960s produced a strain of cybernetic art that was very much concerned with the shared circuits within and between the living and the technological. A line of cybernetic art theory also emerged during the late 1960s. Writers like Jonathan Benthall and Gene Youngblood drew on cybernetics and cybernetic. The most substantial contributors here were the British artist and theorist Roy Ascott with his essay \"Behaviourist Art and the Cybernetic Vision\" in the journal Cybernetica (1966–67), and the American critic and theorist Jack Burnham. In \"Beyond Modern Sculpture\" from 1968 Burnham builds cybernetic art into an extensive theory that centers on art's drive to imitate and ultimately reproduce life. Also in 1968, curator Jasia Reichardt organized the landmark exhibition, Cybernetic Serendipity, at the Institute of Contemporary Art in London.\n\nGenerative art is art that has been generated, composed, or constructed in an algorithmic manner through the use of systems defined by computer software algorithms, or similar mathematical or mechanical or randomised autonomous processes. Sonia Landy Sheridan established Generative Systems as a program at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago in 1970 in response to social change brought about in part by the computer-robot communications revolution. The program, which brought artists and scientists together, was an effort at turning the artist's passive role into an active one by promoting the investigation of contemporary scientific—technological systems and their relationship to art and life. Unlike copier art, which was a simple commercial spin-off, Generative Systems was actually involved in the development of elegant yet simple systems intended for creative use by the general population. Generative Systems artists attempted to bridge the gap between elite and novice by directing the line of communication between the two, thus bringing first generation information to greater numbers of people and bypassing the entrepreneur.\n\nProcess art is an artistic movement as well as a creative sentiment and world view where the end product of \"art\" and \"craft\", the \"objet d’art\", is not the principal focus. The 'process' in process art refers to the process of the formation of art: the gathering, sorting, collating, associating, and patterning. Process art is concerned with the actual \"doing\"; art as a rite, ritual, and performance. Process art often entails an inherent motivation, rationale, and intentionality. Therefore, art is viewed as a creative journey or process, rather than as a deliverable or end product.\nIn the artistic discourse the work of Jackson Pollock is hailed as an antecedent. Process art in its employment of serendipity has a marked correspondence with Dada. Change and transience are marked themes in the process art movement. The Guggenheim Museum states that Robert Morris in 1968 had a groundbreaking exhibition and essay defining the movement and the Museum Website states as \"Process artists were involved in issues attendant to the body, random occurrences, improvisation, and the liberating qualities of nontraditional materials such as wax, felt, and latex. Using these, they created eccentric forms in erratic or irregular arrangements produced by actions such as cutting, hanging, and dropping, or organic processes such as growth, condensation, freezing, or decomposition\".\n\nAccording to Chilvers (2004) \"earlier in 1966 the British art critic Lawrence Alloway had coined the term \"Systemic art\", to describe a type of abstract art characterized by the use of very simple standardized forms, usually geometric in character, either in a single concentrated image or repeated in a system arranged according to a clearly visible principle of organization. He considered the chevron paintings of Kenneth Noland as examples of Systemic art, and considered this as a branch of Minimal art\".\n\nJohn G. Harries considered a common ground in the ideas that underlie developments in 20th-century art such as Serial art, Systems Art, Constructivism and Kinetic art. These kind of arts often do not stem directly from observations of things visible in the external natural environment, but from the observation of depicted shapes and of the relationship between them. Systems art, according to Harries, represents a deliberate attempt by artists to develop a more flexible frame of reference. A style in which its frame of reference is taken as a model to be emulated rather than as a cognitive systems, that only leads to the institutionalization of the imposed model. But to transfer the meaning of a picture to its location within a systemic structure does not remove the need to define the constitutive elements of the system: if they are not defined, one will not know how to build the system.\nSystemic Painting, according to Auping (1989) \"was the title of an highly influential exhibition at the Guggenheim Museum in 1966 assembled and introduction written by Lawrence Alloway as curator. The show contained numerous works that many critics today would consider part of the Minimal art\". In the catalogue Alloway noted, that ... \"paintings, such as those in this exhibition are not, as has been often claimed, impersonal. The personal is not expunged by using a neat technique: anonymity is not a consequence of highly finishing a painting\". The term \"systemic painting\" later on has become the name for artists who employ systems make a number of aesthetic decisions before commencing \nto paint.\n\nAccording to Feldman (1987) \"serial art, serial painting, systems sculpture and ABC art, were art styles of the 1960s and 1970s in which simple geometric configurations are repeated with little or no variation. Sequences becomes important as in mathematics and linguistic context. These works rely on simple arrangements of basic volumes and voids, mechanically produced surfaces, and algebraic permutations of form. The impact on the viewer, however, is anything but simple\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3972722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3972722", "title": "Trow Ghyll skeleton", "text": "Trow Ghyll skeleton\n\nThe Trow Ghyll skeleton is a set of human remains discovered on 24 August 1947 in a cave near Clapham in the West Riding of Yorkshire. It was named after a prominent topographical feature located some away. Although the identity of the body has never been ascertained, it has been claimed that they were those of a German spy. The unexplained death has been described as \"the most notable\" mystery over a possible Nazi agent in Britain.\n\nOn 24 August 1947, two friends who were keen potholers decided to go out looking for new potholes to explore near the famous Ingleborough Cave. They were Jim Leach (23 December 1920 – 15 March 2000) who was then working as an electrician and living at Great Harwood near Blackburn, and Harold Burgess (1918 – 11 August 2000), then a motor engineer and living in Leeds. The two were good friends (known as \"Jim and Budge\") who were members of the Northern Pennine Club and later became business partners.\n\nAt about 12:30 PM, they discovered a small hole (subsequently named Body Pot) which was partly obscured by stones. On moving the stones to make the entrance bigger, Leach climbed down about 10 feet where he saw a pair of shoes. Looking round he then saw the skull and the rest of the body, under a large stone (although it was not resting on the body); the remains had suffered advanced decomposition and there was hardly any flesh remaining. Burgess spotted near the body a small bottle of white powder which he assumed to be flash powder.\n\nLeach and Burgess returned to Clapham to raise the alarm and later that afternoon returned to the cave with Police Sergeant Nock of Ingleton; the police stationed a guard outside the cave until the body could be photographed and then removed the following day. The remains were taken to Skipton mortuary and the effects found in the cave were sent to the forensic laboratory at Wakefield. The local community was quickly reassured that foul play had been ruled out as a cause of death.\n\nBy coincidence, a week later on 31 August another skeleton was found not far away at Gaping Gill. These remains were unidentified but were found to be those of a man of between 25 and 35 years, who had died two or three years previously, and had been killed in a fall down the cave.\n\nThe findings of the various checks on the discovery were reported to an inquest held on 25 November at Skipton town hall before Coroner Stephen E. Brown and a jury. Leach and Burgess gave evidence of their discovery, and the police witnesses told of how they had preserved the evidence and transmitted it to the appropriate authorities. The main evidence at the inquest was given by the scientific witnesses.\n\nOn 26 August Professor P. L. Sutherland conducted a post mortem examination on the body. He found that the remains were those of a man who was 5 ft. 5 ¼ in. tall, aged between 22 and 30 at the time of death, and that death had occurred at least two and no more than six years before. He was able to rule out broken or diseased bones as a cause of death (none were fractured or broken), although not all of them were present. The bones were entirely separate from each other and the brain had disappeared; his clothes had rotted to the point where it was difficult to distinguish them.\n\nLewis Nickolls of the North East Forensic Science Laboratory reported that the man had been wearing a blue shirt and tie, and a grey-blue suit with red and white stripes \"about three to the inch\". He had a tweedy herringbone overcoat, grey trilby hat, and a plum coloured scarf (which would have been over the mouth at the time of death). He also had light brown to auburn hair. \n\nThe most interesting evidence dealt with those of the man's possessions which had not rotted away. The glass bottle seen by Burgess turned out not to contain flash powder, but Sodium cyanide, a lethal poison. The bottle was full to the shoulder although it was possible, said Nickolls, to have extracted a lethal dose from it. An unbroken ampule of the same material was also found. Of his other possessions, the man had coins to the value of 11 shillings 5 ½ pence, with none of the coins newer than 1939. Nickolls said that the date of death would have been two years after that.\n\nThere were two pairs of shoes, one of which had been made in 1938 and the other in 1939. There was a mineral water bottle of a type supplied to hotels in Morecambe, Lancaster and Ingleton, and containing a blue 'crown' top not introduced until 1940. Other items found with the man included a wristlet watch, handkerchief, shaving tube, studs, toothbrush, fountain pen, propelling pencil, compass, box of matches, tablets, flashlamp, and toiletries. The man had a key but the police were unable to identify the lock which it opened.\n\nWhen the body was discovered, wide publicity was given and several people came forward to link missing relatives to the remains. The police compiled the suggestions into a list of 18, of which four turned out to be alive, ten were ruled out for bearing no resemblance to the remains, and for the four remaining it was impossible to say whether they were the man. The inquest returned a verdict that there was insufficient evidence of cause of death and to identify the remains.\n\nAt the inquest, Nicholls had been asked about the cyanide phial and ampule and said that it was used commercially and as a poison for vermin. However, he had to admit that he had not seen the same design before. The legal historian A. W. B. Simpson, who was living in Clapham at the time of the discovery, later noted that the only known users of such an ampule were spies operating in enemy countries, who had them in order to commit suicide in the event that they were discovered.\n\nSimpson claimed that the individual was \"plainly connected in some way with the German secret service\" and that he was \"the most notable .. mystery\" over a German agent. He further remarked that \"Such enquiries as I have made from persons who ought to know have produced evasiveness\".\n\nHowever, Simpson's claims are not supported by German intelligence documents discovered after the war. According to the British domestic security service, MI5, Germany had sent around 115 agents against Britain during the course of the war. Almost all of these had been successfully identified and caught, with the exception of Willem Ter Braak – not the body found at Trow Ghyll – who had committed suicide before being captured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1129421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1129421", "title": "Use of torture since 1948", "text": "Use of torture since 1948\n\nTorture, the infliction of severe physical or psychological pain upon an individual to extract information or a confession, or as an illicit extrajudicial punishment, is prohibited by international law and is illegal in most countries. However, it is still used by many governments. The subject of this article is the use of torture since the adoption of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), which prohibited it.\n\nTorture is widely practiced worldwide: Amnesty International received reports of torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in more than 150 countries during the four-year period from 1997 to 2000. These accusations concerned acts against political prisoners in 70 countries and other prisoners and detainees in more than 130 countries. State torture has been extensively documented and studied, often as part of efforts at collective memory and reconciliation in societies that have experienced a change in government. Surveys of torture survivors reveal that torture \"is not aimed primarily at the extraction of information ... Its real aim is to break down the victim's personality and identity.\" When applied indiscriminately, torture is used as a tool of repression and deterrence against dissent and community empowerment.\n\nWhile many states use torture, few wish to be described as doing so, either to their own citizens or to international bodies. So a variety of strategies are used to circumvent their legal and humanitarian duties, including plausible deniability, secret police, \"need to know\", denial that certain activities constitute torture, appeal to various laws (national or international), use of a jurisdictional argument, claim of \"overriding need\", the use of torture by proxy, and so on. Almost all regimes and governments engaging in torture (and other crimes against humanity) consistently deny engaging in it, in spite of overwhelming hearsay and physical evidence from the citizens they tortured. Through both denial and avoidance of prosecution, most people ordering or carrying out acts of torture do not face legal consequences for their actions. UN Special Rapporteur for the Commission on Human Rights, Sir Nigel Rodley, believes that \"impunity continues to be the principal cause of the perpetuation and encouragement of human rights violations and, in particular, torture.\"\n\nWhile states, particularly their prisons, law enforcement, military and intelligence apparatus, are major perpetrators of torture, many non-state actors also engage in it. These include paramilitaries and guerrillas, criminal actors such as organized crime syndicates and kidnappers.\n\nA recent approach to interrogations has been to use techniques such as waterboarding, sexual humiliation and sexual abuse, and dogs to intimidate or pressure prisoners in a manner claimed to be legal under national or international law. Electric shock techniques such as the use of stun belts and tasers have been considered appropriate provided that they are used to \"control\" prisoners or suspects, even non-violent ones, rather than to extract information. These techniques have been widely criticized as torture.\n\nWhile methods of torture are often quite crude, a number of new technologies of control have been used by torturers in recent years. The Brazilian government devised a number of new electrical and mechanical means of torture during the military dictatorship from 1964 to 1985, and proceeded to train military officials from other right-wing Latin American countries in their techniques. One is the use of tasers and electro-shock devices now widely sold to prison authorities around the world. Minor refinements of ancient techniques--including tearing out fingernails and toenails with iron tools, burning the soles of the feet with clothes irons, and probing between the toes with electric wood-burning pencils--are also widely applied. Some African nations employ an iron foot-squeezing device patterned after the medieval French boot.\n\nSubstantial cooperation between states in the methods and coordination of torture has been documented. Through the Phoenix Program, the United States helped South Vietnam co-ordinate a system of detention, torture and assassination of suspected members of the National Liberation Front, or Viet Cong. During the 1980s wars in Central America, the U.S. government provided manuals and training on interrogation that extended to the use of torture (see U.S. Army and CIA interrogation manuals). The manuals were also distributed by Special Forces Mobile Training teams to military personnel and intelligence schools in Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, and Peru. The manuals have a chapter devoted to \"coercive techniques\".\n\nThe southern cone governments of South America – Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Bolivia, Paraguay and Brazil – involved in Operation Condor co-ordinated the disappearance, torture and execution of dissidents in the 1970s. Hundreds were killed in coordinated operations, and the bodies of those recovered were often mutilated and showed signs of torture. This system operated with the knowledge and support of the United States government through the State Department, Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Department.\n\nThe United States government has, at least since the Bush administration, used the tactic of legal rendition in which suspected terrorists were extradited to countries where they were to be prosecuted for crimes allegedly committed. In the \"war on terror\" this has evolved into extraordinary rendition, the delivery of prisoners or others recently captured, including terrorism suspects, to foreign governments known to practice torture are Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, and Afghanistan. Human rights activists have alleged that the practice amounts to kidnapping for the purpose of torture, or torture by proxy. A related practice is the operation of facilities for imprisonment, and it is widely believed torture, in foreign countries. In November 2005, the Washington Post reported —- citing administration sources —- that such facilities are operated by the CIA in Thailand (until 2004), Afghanistan, and several unnamed Eastern European countries. Human Rights Watch reports that planes associated with rendition have landed repeatedly in Poland and Romania.\n\nThe use of torture is geographically widespread. A review by Amnesty International, which did not use the United Nations Convention Against Torture as its definition of torture, of its case files found \"reports of torture or ill-treatment by state officials in more than 150 countries from 1997 to 2000\". These reports described widespread or persistent patterns of abuse in more than 70 countries and torture-related deaths in more than 80.\n\nTorture has been reported in Afghanistan under each of its recent governments. Under Najibullah's Soviet-backed regime, beating and electric shocks were widely reported. After the mujahidin victory, Afghanistan fell into a state of chaos, and, according to Amnesty International, \"Torture of civilians in their homes has become endemic ... In almost every jail run by the armed political groups, torture is reported to be a part of the daily routine\". The Taliban are likewise reported to have engaged in torture. Since the U.S. overthrow of the Taliban, torture has been reported on several occasions, both by Afghan groups and by U.S. troops. In the Herat region, dominated by the warlord Ismail Khan, Human Rights Watch reported extensive torture in 2002. Torture by US troops has been alleged in news reports by the New York Times. In March 2008 the UK Ministry of Defence claimed that they and the Afghan army had uncovered a Taliban torture chamber where two individuals were believed to have been beaten.\n\nUnder Enver Hoxha's People's Socialist Republic of Albania, torture was widely used. Since its fall, Amnesty International has reported police abuses amounting to torture; the government says it has \"made efforts to punish all acts of torture under the Albanian criminal justice system\".\n\nAccording to Pierre Vidal-Naquet in \"Torture; Cancer of Democracy\" and \"Les Damnees de la Terre\" by Franz Fanon, torture was practiced endemically by the French forces, commanded by General Jacques Massu, bringing together the experience of \"Les Paras\" in the Indo-China War and German troops in the French Foreign Legion.\n\nIn Angola's 27-year civil war, according to Amnesty International, \"many were tortured\" by both sides.<ref name=\"E/CN.4/1994/31\">\"Report of the Special Rapporteur on torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment\", U.N. Commission on Human Rights.</ref> Since that time, AI has also reported that \"unarmed civilians are being extrajudicially executed and tortured\" in Angola's war against Cabindan separatists.\n\nDuring the so-called \"Dirty War\" carried out in the 1970s, in particular, but not only, by the military dictatorship from 1976 to 1983, tens of thousands of Argentines were \"disappeared\" by the junta, many never to be seen again. The National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons concluded:\n\nIn nearly all the cases brought to the attention of the Commission, the victims speak of acts of torture. Torture was an important element in the methodology of repression. Secret torture centres were set up, among other reasons, to enable the carrying out of torture to be carried out undisturbed.\n\nTorture has been used frequently by the Bahraini government in the 20th century. Notable cases include that of Ian Henderson, a former colonial officer employed in Bahrain who was accused by multiple witnesses of torturing prisoners. Adel Flaifel, a notorious security officer identified by many detainees as having overseen torture, was given immunity under Royal Decree 56 of 2002. Between 1980 and 1998, nine people died in detention as a result of torture, with five more dying shortly after being released as a result of injuries sustained from torture. Reports released by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch in the 1990s point to the widespread use of torture in Bahraini prisons.\n\nDuring the Bahraini uprising, torture was described by many human rights reports as widespread and systematic. Up to 1866 who make up 64% of detainees reported cases of torture. Three government agencies, namely the Ministry of Interior, the National Security Agency and the Bahrain Defence Force, were involved in interrogating detainees in relation to the events of the uprising. The NSA and MoI followed a systematic practice of physical and psychological mistreatment, which in many cases amounted to torture. Only four of the individuals who alleged torture were arrested by the BDF. The Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry have attributed the deaths of five individuals to torture.\n\nTorture was used regularly by the Brazilian dictatorship regime from 1964 to 1977 against dissidents. It included torturing their children, some of whom were less than 2 years old at the time.\n\nThe regime of Augusto Pinochet in Chile in the 1970s used torture extensively against political opponents. Chile's National Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture (Comisión Nacional sobre Prisión Política y Tortura) concluded in 2004 that torture had been a systematically implemented policy of the government, and recommended reparations. The commission heard the testimony of more than 35,000 witnesses, whose testimonies are to be kept secret for fifty years. Among those tortured were future president Michelle Bachelet, who was held along with her mother at the notorious Villa Grimaldi detention center in the capital Santiago.\n\nAlthough torture was outlawed in China in 1996, a UN investigator found torture to still be widespread in 2005, particularly because the narrow definition of the law, leaving a mark, does not comply with the UN definition.\n\nPeople imprisoned by the communist regime are reportedly tortured.\n\nIn the socialist German Democratic Republic of divided Germany, torture and inhumane and degrading treatment were systematically used by security forces, including the Stasi secret police, against suspected opponents of the regime.\n\nDuring the Algerian War of Independence (1954–1962), the French military used torture against the National Liberation Front and the civilian population. The French interrogators were notorious for the use of man-powered electrical generators on suspects: this form of torture was called \"(la) gégène\".\n\nThat France has provided a pivotal role in the evolution of western torture practices is the central thesis of the French film \"Death Squadrons: The French School\" by Monique Robin.\nThe French had themselves developed practices in defence of its declining empire through the 20th century, setting up torture \"universities\" at \"Poulo Condor\" (now \"Côn Sơn\") – an island off Vietnam (then French Indo-China, subsequently taken over by the United States) and at Philippeville (now \"Skikda\") in Algeria.\n\nPolice abuse remains a reality in France today, while France has been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) for the conditions of detention in prisons, including the use of torture on detainees. Although the law and the Constitution prohibits any kind of torture, such practices happen. In 2004, the Inspector General of the National Police received 469 registered complaints about illegitimate police violence during the first 11 months of the year, down from 500 during the same period in 2003. There were 59 confirmed cases of police violence, compared to 65 in the previous year. In April 2004, the ECHR condemned the government for \"inhumane and degrading treatments\" in the 1997 case of a teenager beaten while in police custody. The court ordered the government to pay Giovanni Rivas $20,500 (15,000 euros) in damages and $13,500 (10,000 euros) in court costs. The head of the police station in Saint-Denis, near Paris, has been forced to resign after allegations of rape and other violence committed by the police force under his orders. Nine investigations concerning police abuse in this police station were carried out in 2005 by the IGS inspection of police. These repeated abuses are said to be one of the causes of the 2005 civil unrest. Conditions in detention centers for illegal aliens have also been widely criticized by human rights NGOs. In 2006 a young 20-year-old Serbian girl accused a policeman of attempting to rape her in such a centre in Bobigny, in the suburbs of Paris, the year before.\n\nDuring the Guatemalan civil war and the repression by the army against civilians and suspected opponents of the military dictatorship, murder (even genocide), torture, rape and inhumane and degrading treatment was systematically used by the Guatemalan armed forces and police. There is evidence that the CIA, in anticommunist campaigns during the 1980s, was involved in these tortures (in Latin America the threat of communism was often used as justification for dictatorship during the Cold War). Thousands of victims were tortured and murdered. For example, Dianna Ortiz, an American nun who was teaching poor Mayan children in the Guatemala highlands, claims that U.S. personnel were present in interrogation and torture rooms in Guatemala City in 1989 when she was kidnapped, taken to a secret prison and repeatedly raped and tortured by Guatemalan right-wing forces. Ortiz survived because of her American citizenship. Sister Ortiz chronicled her experiences and recovery in a book, \"The Blindfold's Eyes\". \"There were other people in the clandestine cell, the clandestine prison, as well, and I could hear terrible screams. Many were killed. I saw some bodies. There were children, as well\", wrote Dianna Ortiz.\n\nIndia has not ratified the UN Convention against Torture. Custodial deaths and extrajudicial killings are on the rise. The Asian Centre for Human Rights released its report, Torture in India 2010, at a press conference in New Delhi. The report stated that, taking 2000 as the base year, custodial deaths have decreased by 41.66% government between 2004–2005 to 2007–2008. This includes 70.72% increase of deaths in prison and 12.60% increase while in police custody.\nThe government has stated that it intends to pass the Anti Torture Act 2010 so it can ratify the UN convention against torture. The bill provides up to a 10-year sentence for physical or mental torture by the police.\n\nArticle 38 of the constitution of the Islamic Republic forbids \"all forms of torture for the purpose of extracting confession or acquiring information\" and the \"compulsion of individuals to testify, confess, or take an oath.\" It also states that \"any testimony, confession, or oath obtained under duress is devoid of value and credence.\" The Islamic Republic itself vehemently denies the existence of torture by the government.\n\nNonetheless, human rights groups and observers, such as Amnesty International, the United Nations, and Human Rights Watch, have complained that torture is frequently used on political prisoners in Iran.\n\nA substantial number of Iranians have been tortured and imprisoned by the religious police. Arya Aramnejad, a singer, was jailed for his song \"Ali Barkhiz\" where he denounces the Islamic regime's crimes during the 2009 Ashura protests. During his time in prison, he was reportedly tortured (sexually humiliated – photographed naked, laughed at, obliged to walk barefooted on aids' patients blood). Farzad Kamangar was repeatedly tortured in prison. Amnesty International reports that Kamangar was repeatedly beaten, flogged, and electrocuted, and that he now suffers from spasms in his arms and legs as a result of the torture. After she died in the custody of Iranian officials, Zahra \"Ziba\" Kazemi-Ahmadabadi, an Iranian-Canadian freelance photographer, was found to show obvious signs of torture, including a skull fracture, broken nose, signs of rape and severe abdominal bruising. Ehsan Fatahian, an Iranian Kurdish activist, was tortured for confession before being executed. Zeynab Jalalian, also a Kurdish activist, is currently ill due to prison conditions and torture. She has been sentenced to death. Other notable victims include Behrouz Javid Tehrani, Habibollah Latifi, Houshang Asadi, Saeed Malekpour, Shirkoh (Bahman) Moarefi, Hossein Khezri, and Akbar Mohammadi.\n\nIn a study of torture in Iran published in 1999, Iranian-born political historian Ervand Abrahamian included Iran along with \"Stalinist Russia, Maoist China, and early modern Europe\" of the Inquisition and witch hunts, as societies that \"can be considered to be in a league of their own\" in the systematic use of torture.\n\nTorture techniques used in the Islamic Republic include:\n\nwhipping, sometimes of the back but most often of the feet with the body tied on an iron bed; the qapani; deprivation of sleep; suspension from ceiling and high walls; twisting of forearms until they broke; crushing of hands and fingers between metal presses; insertion of sharp instruments under the fingernails; cigarette burns; submersion under water; standing in one place for hours on end; mock executions; and physical threats against family members. Of these, the most prevalent was the whipping of soles, obviously because it was explicitly sanctioned by the sharia.\n\nChronicle of Higher Education International, reports that the widespread practice of raping women imprisoned for engaging in political protest has been effective in keeping female college students \"less outspoken and less likely to take part\" in political demonstrations. The journal quotes an Iranian college student as saying, \"most of the girls arrested are raped in jail. Families can't cope with that.\"\n\nSeveral bills passed the Iranian Parliament that would have had Iran joining the international convention on banning torture in 2003 when reformists controlled Parliament, but were rejected by the Guardian Council.\n\nThe government headed by Baathist Saddam Hussein made extensive use of torture, including at the notorious Abu Ghraib prison.\n\nThe post-invasion Iraqi government holds thousands of people in prison. After investigating from July to October 2004, Human Rights Watch found that torture was \"routine and commonplace.\" According to their report,\n\nDespite apparently credible claims that people were fed into Saddam Hussein's plastic shredder (most likely within Abu Ghraib) prior to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, no such device was found after the war. In October 1990, it was alleged that Iraqi soldiers had \"thrown babies from incubators\" during the invasion of Kuwait. This story was supposed to have come from the 'eye-witness testimony' of a 15-year-old Kuwaiti girl, Nurse Nayirah. Years later it emerged that she was the daughter of Saud bin Nasir Al-Sabah, Kuwait's ambassador to the United States, and that the story was the creation of the Hill & Knowlton public relations firm employed by the Kuwaitis.\n\nAfter investigation of continued allegations of torture, the Supreme Court ruled in 1999 that all torture - even moderate physical pressure - was illegal. This decision was praised by human-rights organizations. Despite this reform of the law, Amnesty International continues to express concerns to Israel about treatment which amounts to torture, and remains unhappy about the steps taken by Israel to eliminate torture. Amnesty International stated in 2002:\n\nThe human rights group B'Tselem estimated that 85% of all Palestinian detainees suspected of terrorism are subject to prolonged sleep deprivation; prolonged sight deprivation or sensory deprivation; forced, prolonged maintenance of body positions that grow increasingly painful; confinement in tiny, closet-like spaces; exposure to temperature extremes, such as in deliberately overcooled rooms; prolonged toilet and hygiene deprivation; and degrading treatment, such as forcing detainees to eat and use the toilet at the same time. Allegations have been made of frequent beatings. Such acts violate Article 16 of the United Nations Convention Against Torture. In January 2000, B'Tselem claimed that the Israeli General Security Service's (GSS) methods of interrogation amounted to the five techniques: \"[The] GSS used methods comparable to those used by the British in 1971, viz. sleep deprivation, infliction of physical suffering, and sensory isolation. But the GSS used them for much longer periods, so the resulting pain and suffering were substantially greater. In addition, the GSS used direct violence... Thus... in practice, the GSS methods were substantially more severe than those used by the British in 1971...\"\n\nMau Mau inflicted torture and death on 1,819 Kikuyu during their uprising in the 1950s, along with 58 people of European and Asian descent.\n\nSuspected Hezbollah guerrillas, their families and Lebanese civilian internees were previously detained in the South Lebanon Army (SLA) prison at Khiam in the then Israeli-occupied Southern Lebanon. Torture, including electric shock torture, by the SLA was routine. This was detailed after the end of the occupation in 2000, when Lebanese who freed the prisoners found instruments of torture.\n\nIn 2005, Human Rights Watch documented that Nigerian police in the cities of Enugu, Lagos and Kano routinely practice torture. Dozens of witnesses and survivors stepped forward to testify to repeated, severe beatings, abuse of sexual organs, rape, death threats, injury by shooting, and the denial of food and water. These abuses were used in campaigns against common crime.\n\nSystematic torture was used in conjunction with military occupation in an attempt to quell anti-oil protests by the Ogoni people in the Niger Delta, according to a World Council of Churches report.\n\nChristian pastors in Nigeria have been involved in the torturing and killing of children accused of witchcraft. Church pastors, in an effort to distinguish from the competition, establish their credentials by accusing children of witchcraft. When repeatedly asked to comment about the matter, the Church has refused to comment.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1973, the North Vietnamese and Vietcong held hundreds of Americans captive. Hanoi's Ministry of Public Security's Medical Office (MPSMO) was responsible for \"preparing studies and performing research on the most effective Soviet, French, Communist Chinese and other ...techniques...\" of extracting information from POWs. The MPSMO \"...supervised the use of torture and the use of drugs to induce [American] prisoners to cooperate.\" Its functions also \"...included working with Soviet and Communist Chinese intelligence advisors who were qualified in the use of medical techniques for intelligence purposes.\"\n\nSee Con Son Island for accounts of US torture practices.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority has reportedly practiced torture in the occupied territories over the years. Amnesty International found: \"Torture [by the Palestine Authority] of detainees remained widespread. Seven detainees died in custody. Unlawful killings, including possible extrajudicial executions, continued to be reported.\"\n\nIn 1995, Azzam Rahim, a naturalized American citizen, was arrested by the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank. He was subsequently taken to a prison in Jericho where he was tortured and killed. Rahim's family attempted to sue the PA and the Palestinian Liberation Organization, but the Supreme Court ultimately ruled against them.\n\nMore than 100 cases of torture by Palestinian security services were reported in 2010. Joe Stork, deputy Middle East director at Human Rights Watch, said: \"The reports of torture by Palestinian security services keep rolling in. President Abbas and Prime Minister Fayyad are well aware of the situation. They need to reverse this rampant impunity and make sure that those responsible are prosecuted.\"\n\nAt least six Palestinians have died under torture in PA prisons. According to a report by the Arab Organization for Human Rights in Britain, the PA has used torture on a systematic basis for years. Methods include beatings with cables, pulling out nails, suspension from the ceiling, flogging, kicking, cursing, electric shocks, sexual harassment and the threat of rape. The report went on to say \"Every one of those detainees has been subject to humiliating and degrading treatment and stayed in cells for more than 10 days. The analysis shows that an astonishing 95 percent of the detainees were subjected to severe torture, others feeling the detrimental effects on their health for varying periods.\" The \"Shabeh\", which involves detainees being handcuffed and bound in stress positions for longs stretches of time, is the most widely used form of torture.\n\nIn 2012, after allegedly selling a house in Hebron to a Jewish family, Muhammad Abu Shahala was arrested by the Palestinian Authority, tortured into a confession, and sentenced to death.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported 147 cases of torture by Hamas in the West Bank during 2011 and that none of the perpetrators had been prosecuted \"despite consistent allegations of severe abuse.\" It further stated that \"Some men said they had needed medical care due to torture and sought to obtain medical records as evidence that they had been tortured, but that hospital officials refused to provide them. Hamas’s rival in the West Bank, the Fatah-dominated Palestinian Authority, arrests and detains Palestinians arbitrarily, including Hamas members or sympathizers, and similarly subjects detainees to torture and abuse.\"\n\nIn another report, Human Rights Watch \"documents cases in which [Palestinian] security forces tortured, beat, and arbitrarily detained journalists, confiscated their equipment, and barred them from leaving the West Bank and Gaza.\" HRW also reported an incident in which \"the Hamas Ministry of Interior summoned a journalist who published an article on torture by Hamas authorities in secret detention facilities, threatened to take legal action against him if he did not publish an apology for the article, and warned him to correct his 'biased' reporting.\"\n\nThe Constitution of Russia forbids arbitrary detention, torture and ill-treatment. Part 2 of Article 21 of the Constitution states that \"no one may be subjected to torture, violence or any other harsh or humiliating treatment or punishment…\". However Russian police are regularly observed practicing torture – including beatings, electric shocks, rape, asphyxiation – in interrogating arrested suspects.\n\nTorture and humiliation, or \"dedovshchina\", are also widespread in Russian's military, according to Human Rights Watch. This is essentially the Russian version of bullying or hazing that is practiced in the American military, however it is often much more brutal. Many young men are killed or commit suicide every year because of it. Amnesty International reported on allegations of Chechen locals, that Russian military forces in Chechnya rape and torture local women with electric shocks, when electric wires are connected to the straps of their bra on their chest.\n\nIn the most extreme cases, hundreds of innocent people from the street were arbitrarily arrested, beaten, tortured, and raped by special police forces (\"Red Terror\"). Such incidents took place not only in Chechnya, but also in the Russian towns of Blagoveshensk, Bezetsk, and Nefteyugansk.\n\nSaudi Arabia officially considers torture illegal under Islamic Law; however, it is widely practiced, as in the case of William Sampson. According to a 2003 report by Amnesty International, \"torture and ill-treatment remained rife.\" Hanny Megally, Executive director of the Middle East and North Africa division of Human Rights Watch, stated in 2002 \"The practice of torture in Saudi Arabia is well documented\", According to the Human Rights Watch \"World Report 2003\", \"Torture under interrogation of political prisoners and criminal suspects continued\", and the 2006 report notes that \"Arbitrary detention, mistreatment and torture of detainees, restrictions on freedom of movement, and lack of official accountability remain serious concerns\".\n\nTorture was widely practiced by the brutal Soviet secret police during the Stalinism era to extract (often false) confessions from suspects often called enemies of the people. One of the most prevalent and effective types of torture was sleep deprivation, nicknamed \"conveyor\" due to interrogators replacing one another to keep the inmate from sleeping. The use of torture was authorized by the Central Committee of the Communist Party and personally by Joseph Stalin. During the Doctor's Plot, Stalin ordered falsely accused physicians to be tortured \"to death\". Torture was still used after Stalin by the KGB but not on the same extent and level.\n\nThe Spanish kingdom categorically denies the existence of torture.\n\nHowever, the Spanish authorities consistently fail to implement recommendations by the Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Torture and the UN Committee Against Torture to combat the use of torture in detention. The UN committee expressed its concern \"about the length of judicial procedures and made reference to reports that indicated that five years had sometimes passed between crime and sentence. The Committee warned that this problem reduces the effect of penal action and discourages people to file complaints.\" It further indicated that \"all members of the Committee were also deeply concerned about the legal practice of five days incommunicado detention\" (since October 2003, a reform of the Criminal Procedure Code has extended that period to a maximum of 13 days).\n\nTorture has reportedly been used in the Adra Prison near Damascus. In 2010, the prison held 7,000 prisoners. The Tadmor Prison in Palmyra was known for harsh conditions, extensive human rights abuse, torture and summary executions. It was closed in 2001 and all remaining political detainees were transferred to other prisons in Syria. However, Tadmor Prison was reopened on 15 June 2011 and 350 individuals arrested for participation in anti-regime demonstrations were transferred there for interrogation and detainment.\n\nA number of captured Israelis have been tortured in Syria. This includes Eli Cohen, who was executed in 1965. In 1955, five Israeli soldiers were captured in a covert operation on the Golan Heights and brutally tortured in a Syrian prison. One of the soldiers, Uri Ilan, committed suicide when falsely informed by his captors that his comrades had been killed. Ilan became a symbol of courage and patriotism in Israel. During the Yom Kippur War, many Israeli prisoners said that they had been tortured by Syrians, and one POW, Avraham Lanir, was tortured to death.\n\nDuring the Syrian Civil War, reports have been made of widespread and systematic torture used by Syrian security forces. This includes electrocution, brutal beatings and sexual assault. Amnesty said of the situation : \"Torture and other ill-treatment in Syria form part of a widespread and systematic attack against the civilian population, carried out in an organized manner and as part of state policy and therefore amount to crimes against humanity.\"\n\nIn April 2009 a video emerged of a United Arab Emirates Royal Sheik, Sheik Issa bin Zayed Al Nahyan (a son of Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan) directing the torture of an Afghan grain dealer Mohammed Shah Poor The video includes the man being tortured with a cattle prod to his genitals, sand in his mouth and being run over by a Mercedes SUV. A man in a UAE police uniform is seen on the tape tying the victim's arms and legs, and later holding him down. The official response of the UAE government was that Sheik Issa is the man shown in the video but he did nothing wrong. The incidents depicted in the videotapes were not part of a pattern of behaviour, the Ministry of the Interior said.\n\nDuring the Mau Mau uprising of the 1950s, British colonial forces rounded up more than a million of Kikuyu people — most of them innocent victims of collective punishment — and imprisoned them in concentration camps in order to flush out the Mau Mau insurgency. In order to extract information about the insurgency and terrorize the enemy, the British used brutal methods to force Kenyans to confess and repudiate the Mau Mau oath. Under slogans like \"labor and freedom\" and other variations on \"Arbeit macht frei,\" inmates were worked to death as slave labor filling in mass graves under cruel conditions. Some men were anally raped with knives. Some women had their breasts mutilated and cut off. Eyes were gouged out and ears cut off and skin lacerated with coiled barbed wire. Interrogation involved stuffing a detainee’s mouth with mud and stamping on his throat until he passed out or died. Survivors were sometimes burned alive, while British guards and interrogators took joy and laughed. British troops denying access to medical aid to the detainees were widespread. A former British officer described a British detention camp in Kenya in 1954: \"Short rations, overwork, brutality, humiliating and disgusting treatment, flogging — all in violation of the UN Declaration of Human Rights.\" According to Canon Bewes, a British missionary, there was a \"constant stream of reports of brutalities by police, military and home guards. Some of the people had been using castration instruments and two men had died under castration.\"\n\nAmong the detainees who suffered severe mistreatment was Hussein Onyango Obama, the grandfather of U.S. President Barack Obama. According to his widow, British soldiers forced pins into his fingernails and buttocks and squeezed his testicles between metal rods and two others were castrated. One British settler described the typical British interrogation:\n\nOn 22 November 1954, Colonel Arthur Young sent a letter to Governor Evelyn Baring about the \"inhumanity\" of various parts of the security forces amid his investigations of wrongdoing:\n\nIn January 1955, Baring sent a telegram to Alan Lennox-Boyd, the Secretary of State for the Colonies and a cabinet minister, and told them that eight white European officers who had been accused of serious crimes, including accessory to murder, would be given immunity from prosecution. One district officer was accused of the \"beating up and roasting alive of one African\". A Kenyan Regiment Sergeant and a field intelligence assistance had been implicated in the burning of two further suspects \"during screening operations\". \"I had not myself realised until today that the extension of the principle of clemency to all members of the security forces involved so many cases with Europeans as principals,\" wrote Baring.\n\nIn 1956, Baring's administration devised the \"dilution technique\" — a system of assaults and psychological shocks to detainees, to force the compliance of the toughest Mau Mau supporters. Lennox-Boyd was told that one commander, Terrence Gavaghan, had developed the techniques at the Mwea camps in central Kenya - and he needed permission to treat the worst detainees in a \"rough way\". Baring telegrammed the Colonial Secretary in London asking for his approval to use \"overpowering\" force, and the cabinet minister's approval came within weeks. A ministerial delegation saw firsthand prisoners beaten for refusing to don camp clothes. Ringleaders of the \"Mau Mau moan\" - a chant of defiance - were singled out for special punishment. They were beaten and forced to the ground. Once there, a boot was placed on their throat while mud was forced into their mouths. Gavaghan also explained how difficult detainees would be subjected to the \"third degree\". \"The measures adopted were to be kept awake all night, having water thrown at him and to be beaten up on a variety of pretexts.\"\n\nOne Hanslope Park document is a letter between Kenyan Special Branch police officers about treatment of \"fanatical\" detainees at the Mwea camps.\n\nIn June 1957, Eric Griffith-Jones, the attorney general of the British administration in Kenya, wrote to Baring, detailing the way the regime of abuse at the colony's detention camps was being subtly altered. He said that the mistreatment of the detainees is \"distressingly reminiscent of conditions in Nazi Germany or Communist Russia\". Despite this, he said that in order for abuse to remain legal, Mau Mau suspects must be beaten mainly on their upper body, \"vulnerable parts of the body should not be struck, particularly the spleen, liver or kidneys\", and it was important that \"those who administer violence ... should remain collected, balanced and dispassionate\". He also agreed to draft legislation that sanctioned beatings, as long as the abuse was kept secret, and reminded the governor that \"If we are going to sin,\" he wrote, \"we must sin quietly.\"\n\nDuring the Troubles, members of the British Army and the British security forces had routinely used torture on Irish Republican Army (IRA) suspects in Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1971, as part of Operation Demetrius, fourteen arrested men were subjected to a program of \"deep interrogation\" at a secret interrogation centre. The interrogation methods involved sensory deprivation and were referred to as the \"five techniques\". The European Court of Human Rights defined them as \"wall-standing, hooding, subjection to noise, deprivation of sleep, and deprivation of food and drink\". For seven days, when not being interrogated, the detainees were kept hooded and handcuffed in a cold cell and subjected to a continuous loud hissing noise. Here they were forced to stand in a stress position for many hours and were deprived of sleep, food and drink. They were also repeatedly beaten, and some reported being kicked in the genitals, having their heads banged against walls and being threatened with injections. The effect was severe pain, severe physical and mental exhaustion, severe anxiety, depression, hallucinations, disorientation and repeated loss of consciousness.\n\nThe fourteen so-called \"Hooded Men\" were the only detainees subjected to all five techniques together. Some other detainees were subjected to at least one of the five techniques, along with other interrogation methods. These allegedly included waterboarding, electric shocks, burning with matches and candles, forcing internees to stand over hot electric fires while beating them, beating and squeezing of the genitals, inserting objects into the anus, injections, whipping the soles of the feet, and psychological abuse such as Russian roulette.\n\nDetails of the \"deep interrogation\" program became known to the public, sparking outrage. In response, the British Government commissioned an inquiry, under Lord Parker, to look into the five techniques. In 1972 the 'Parker Report' concluded that the five techniques were illegal under domestic law. British Prime Minister, Edward Heath, then announced that the five techniques would no longer be used under his government. However, he said that if a future British government decided to reintroduce them, it would need to be approved by Parliament.\n\nThe Irish Government had begun international legal action against the British Government over the Hooded Men in 1971. In 1976, the European Commission of Human Rights ruled that the program of deep interrogation, using the five techniques, amounted to \"torture\". The case was then referred to the European Court of Human Rights. In 1978 it ruled that the program amounted to \"inhuman and degrading treatment\" which breached the European Convention on Human Rights, but did not amount to torture. In 2014, evidence emerged that the British Government had withheld information from the Court. Following these revelations, the Irish Government announced in December 2014 that it would be asking the Court to review its judgement and acknowledge the five techniques as torture.\n\nThe Court's ruling, that the five techniques did not amount to torture, was later cited by the United States and Israel to justify their own interrogation methods.\n\nOn 23 February 2005, British soldiers were found guilty of abuse of Iraqi prisoners arrested for looting at a British Army camp called Bread Basket, in Basra, during May 2003. The judge at the military court, Judge Advocate Michael Hunter, said of photographs and the soldier's behaviour:\n\nAt the court martial, the prosecution alleged that in giving the order to \"work [the prisoners] hard\", Captain Dan Taylor had broken the Geneva Conventions. Neither Taylor, nor his commanding officer Lt-Col Paterson (who was briefed on the operation \"Ali Baba\" by Taylor), was sanctioned and, indeed, during the period of time between the offence and the trial, both were given promotions. All the leaders of the major British political parties condemned the abuse. Tony Blair, British Prime Minister, declared that the pictures were \"shocking and appalling\". After sentencing, the Chief of the General Staff, General Sir Mike Jackson, made a statement on television and said that he was \"appalled and disappointed\" when he first saw photographs of the Iraqi detainees and that\n\nOn 7 December 2005, the House of Lords reversed the deportations of Muslims convicted on \"evidence procured by torture inflicted by foreign officials\", and cited the 1978 case in ruling that centuries of common law and recent international conventions made torture anathema in the country's courts. Lord Bingham said it was \"clear that from its very earliest days the common law of England set its face firmly against the use of torture\"; Lord Nicholls said \"Torture is not acceptable. This is a bedrock moral principle in this country\"; Lord Hoffman said \"The use of torture is dishonourable. It corrupts and degrades the state which uses it and the legal system which accepts it.\"; Lord Hope said it was \"one of most evil practices known to man\"; Lord Rodgers said \"the unacceptable nature of torture ... has long been unquestioned in this country.\"; Lord Carswell referred to the \"abhorrence felt by civilised nations for the use of torture\"; and Lord Brown said that \"torture is an unqualified evil. It can never be justified. Rather it must always be punished.\".\n\nOn 13 March 2007, the six-month court martial of the seven soldiers – including Colonel Jorge Mendonca and Major Michael Peebles – over the detention of Iraqi prisoners in Basra during May 2003 ended with all but one, Corporal Donald Payne, being acquitted. On 30 April 2007, Payne, Britain's first convicted war criminal found guilty under the provisions of the International Criminal Court Act 2001, who had pleaded guilty to mistreating prisoners, was jailed for a year and dishonourably discharged from the army.\n\nIn March 2008, the Ministry of Defence admitted breaching the human rights of Baha Mousa, who died in British custody in Basra, and of eight other Iraqi men held at the same facility, opening the way for a multimillion-pound compensation package for the relatives of Baha Mousa and the other men injured during illegal interrogations. On 14 May 2008, Defence Secretary Des Browne announced in the House of Commons that there would be a public inquiry into the death of Baha Mousa in which \"no stone [will be left] unturned in investigating his tragic death.\"\n\nOn 26 July 2008, the Joint Committee on Human Rights accused Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram in 2004 and Lieutenant-General Robin Brims, Commander Field Army, in 2006 of misleading the committee when they declared that conditioning practices (based on the five techniques, banned since their use in Northern Ireland in the 1970s) were not being used. It has now emerged that such techniques were being used by some troops deployed abroad. The BBC reported that \"Labour MP Andrew Dismore, chairman of the committee, said he hoped the public inquiry [into the death of Baha Mousa] would give some indications as to why they were given 'wrong evidence'. Earlier this month, the MoD agreed to pay almost £3m in compensation to Mr Mousa's family and nine Iraqi men after admitting breaching human rights\".\n\nWhile the United States is a party to international conventions against torture, a proponent of human rights treaties and a critic of torture by other countries, torture has taken place within its borders and on its government's behalf outside of its borders.\n\nOn 13 December 1999, NYPD officer Justin Volpe was sentenced to thirty years in prison for sodomizing detainee Abner Louima with the handle of a bathroom plunger.\n\nThe Chicago Police Department's Area 2 unit under Commander Jon Burge repeatedly used electroshock, near-suffocation by plastic bags and excessive beating on suspects in the 1970s and 1980s. The City of Chicago's Office of Professional Standards (OPS) concluded that the physical abuse was systematic and, \"The type of abuse described was not limited to the usual beating, but went into such esoteric areas as psychological techniques and planned torture.\" The Supermax facility at the Maine State Prison has been the scene of video-taped forcible extractions that Lance Tapley in the Portland Phoenix wrote \"look[ed] like torture.\"\n\nIn 2003 and 2004 there was substantial controversy over the \"stress and duress\" methods that were used in the U.S. War on Terrorism that had been sanctioned by the U.S. Executive branch of government at Cabinet level.\n\nAmnesty International and numerous commentators have accused the Military Commissions Act of 2006 of approving a system that uses torture, destroying the mechanisms for judicial review created by the Supreme Court ruling in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, and creating a parallel legal system below international standards.\n\nIn an interview with the \"Washington Post\", the convening authority of the Guantanamo military commissions, Susan J. Crawford, a retired judge, who was responsible for reviewing practices at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, said of one Guantanamo Bay detainee, \"his treatment met the legal definition of torture, and that is why I did not refer the case\" for prosecution. The U.S. Government denies that torture is being conducted in the detention camps at Guantanamo Bay.\n\nIt was reported in June 2008 that, according to human rights lawyers, the USA was \"operating floating prisons to house those arrested in its war on terror\":\n\"According to research carried out by Reprieve, the US may have used as many as 17 ships as 'floating prisons' since 2001. Detainees are interrogated aboard the vessels and then rendered to other, often undisclosed, locations, it is claimed. Ships that are understood to have held prisoners include the USS Bataan and USS Peleliu. A further 15 ships are suspected of having operated around the British territory of Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, which has been used as a military base by the UK and the Americans.\n\n... The Reprieve study includes the account of a prisoner released from Guantánamo Bay, who described a fellow inmate's story of detention on an amphibious assault ship. 'One of my fellow prisoners in Guantánamo was at sea on an American ship with about 50 others before coming to Guantánamo ... he was in the cage next to me. He told me that there were about 50 other people on the ship. They were all closed off in the bottom of the ship. The prisoner commented to me that it was like something you see on TV. The people held on the ship were beaten even more severely than in Guantánamo.'\"\n\nAfter an investigating visit to Uzbekistan, United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture Theo van Boven concluded:\n\nForms of torture frequently cited include immersion in boiling water, exposure to extreme heat and cold, \"the use of electric shock, temporary suffocation, hanging by the ankles or wrists, removal of fingernails, punctures with sharp objects, rape, the threat of rape, and the threat of murder of family members.\" (For example, see Muzafar Avazov.)\n\nIn 2003, Britain's Ambassador for Uzbekistan, Craig Murray, said that information was being extracted under extreme torture from dissidents in that country, and that the information was subsequently being used by Britain and other western, democratic countries which disapproved of torture.\n\n"}
{"id": "18747798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18747798", "title": "Whegs", "text": "Whegs\n\nWhegs (\"wheel-legs or wing-legs\") are mechanisms for robot locomotion. Whegs use a strategy of locomotion that combines the simplicity of the wheel with the obstacle-clearing advantages of the foot.\n\nWhegs were pioneered at the Biologically Inspired Robotics Laboratory at Case Western Reserve University. Whegs development and improvements based on cockroach climbing behavior in several robots has been done in collaboration with the Ritzmann lab in the Biology department at Case Western Reserve University on cockroach climbing behavior. \n\nWhegs robots were inspired by the Prolero robot, designed in 1996 at the European Space Agency, and the RHex robot, developed by a multiuniversity effort funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency. The mobility system is based on studies on the locomotion of the cockroach.\n\nWing-legs are found on flying robots and are wings dual-purposed as legs for locomotion when the robot is on the ground.\n"}
{"id": "22339390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22339390", "title": "Works associated with Paul Wittgenstein", "text": "Works associated with Paul Wittgenstein\n\nThis is a list of works associated with the left-handed Austrian pianist Paul Wittgenstein. \n\nThese works were either: \n"}
{"id": "12635870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12635870", "title": "Zenock", "text": "Zenock\n\nAccording to the Book of Mormon, Zenock () was an old world prophet whose pre-Christian era writings were recorded upon the plates of brass. Zenock is quoted or paraphrased a number of times by writers in the Book of Mormon, including Nephi, Alma, son of Alma, Amulek, Nephi, son of Helaman, and Mormon.\n\nZenock is reported to have written and prophesied about the divinity, death, and atonement of the coming Messiah. In the Book of Alma (chapter 33 verse 17), Alma the Younger reports that Zenock was stoned to death for preaching that the Messiah would be the \"Son of God.\"\n\nResearch on early manuscripts of the Book of Mormon suggests the name's intended spelling was \"Zenoch\" rather than \"Zenock.\"\n\nOutside of the Book of Mormon, there is no evidence that Zenock existed. However, there is evidence that writings of, and references to several ancient Israelite prophets were destroyed by the ruling class of the ancient Jews. There is a reference in the Dead Sea Scrolls to an ancient prophet known as the Teacher of Righteousness who was driven out of Jewish society because he preached of the coming of a Messiah. Outside of the Dead Sea Scrolls, there is no other reference to this person, and until 1950, there was absolutely no record of his existence. The scrolls state that the Teacher of Righteousness was descended from another mysterious prophet named Zadok, which might have been a transcribed or altered version of the Book of Mormon name Zenock. Indeed, non-LDS scholars identify this Zadok as the priest who anointed Solomon (1 Kings 1:39, 2:35) and whose dynasty officiated in the office of High Priest around 1,000-700 BC, some 100–400 years just prior to the timeline found in the Book of Mormon.\n\nIt is possible that the name Zenock (or Zenoch) is derived from the Hebrew word זָנַח (zanach - Strong's H2186), meaning to push aside, reject or forsake. In fact, the name Zenock may be a pun. After citing Zenock's words concerning the \"Son of God,\" Alma wrote that \"because the people would not understand his words they stoned him to death\", a most effective way of pushing aside, rejecting, or forsaking him.\n\n"}
