{"id": "4973119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4973119", "title": "AP World History", "text": "AP World History\n\nAdvanced Placement World History (also known as AP World History, WHAP, AP World or APWH) is a college-level course and examination offered to high school students through the College Board's Advanced Placement Program designed to help students develop a greater understanding of the evolution of global processes and contacts as well as interactions between different types of human society. The course advances this understanding through a combination of selective factual knowledge and appropriate analytical skills. Students study all prehistory and history, especially from 8000 BCE to the present day. It was announced in July 2018 that the test would be changed to an AP World History: Modern exam that only contains content since 1200 CE, starting in the 2019-2020 school year. The AP World History exam was first administered in 2002. The course has undergone multiple changes with the latest changes effective Fall 2017. Often times in the United States, students take the course in their sophomore year of high school, but this is not a requirement.\n\nThis is a high school course designed specifically for sophomores in high school and gives college credit. The course is organized around six eras/periods and nineteen \"Key Concepts\":\nKey Concept 1.1 Big Geography and the Peopling of the Earth\n\nKey Concept 1.2 The Neolithic Revolution and Early Agricultural Societies\n\nKey Concept 1.3 The Development and Interactions of Early Agricultural, Pastoral, and Urban Societies\nKey Concept 2.1 The Development and Codification of Religious and Cultural Traditions\n\nKey Concept 2.2 The Development of States and Empires\n\nKey Concept 2.3 Emergence of Transregional Networks of Communication and Exchange\nKey Concept 3.1 Expansion and Intensification of Communication and Exchange Networks\n\nKey Concept 3.2 Continuity and Innovation of State Forms and Their Interactions\n\nKey Concept 3.3 Increased Economic Productive Capacity and Its Consequences\nKey Concept 4.1 Globalizing Networks of Communication and Exchange\n\nKey Concept 4.2 New Forms of Social Organization and Modes of Production\n\nKey Concept 4.3 State Consolidation and Imperial Expansion\nKey Concept 5.1 Industrialization and Global Capitalism\n\nKey Concept 5.2 Imperialism and Nation-State Formation\n\nKey Concept 5.3 Nationalism, Revolution, and Reform\n\nKey Concept 5.4 Global Migration\nKey Concept 6.1 Science and the Environment\n\nKey Concept 6.2 Global Conflicts and their Consequences\n\nKey Concept 6.3 New Conceptualizations of Global Economy, Society, & Culture\n\nThe first section of the AP World History exam consists of 55 multiple choice questions with a 55-minute time limit. The questions are not divided up evenly between the six periods.\n\nThe multiple choice section is weighted as 40% of one's total score (Section I Part A). It consists of 55 questions to be answered in 55 minutes based on the accompanying sources.\n\nWhile previously the exam deducted 1/4 of a point for every incorrect answer, starting from 2011 on, the penalty for incorrect answers had been removed. It is to one's advantage to attempt every question possible within the time limit. Note also that the number of multiple choice options is being reduced from five to four at the same time.\n\nThis test underwent a major re-haul for the 2017 exam, however, due to the prodigious number of students that struggled with the free response section, the College Board decided to initiate yet another round of sweeping reform, to be put in effect in May 2018. Currently it has the same format as Advanced Placement United States History and Advanced Placement European History. The exam features a new section (Section I Part B) that requires three short answer questions, one of which is selected from two options. Each question has three parts, making for a total of 9 parts within the SAQ section. Students have forty minutes to answer these, and they count for twenty percent of the exam score.\n\nSection II lasts for a total of 100 minutes, and it includes a document-based question (DBQ) and a long essay question (LEQ). Students are allowed to work on either essay within this total time period. The section begins with a 15-minute reading period where students are advised to read both the documents for DBQ. However, students may begin writing during this time; most students take notes on the documents in order to plan out the DBQ. Students are advised to spend 45 minutes writing the DBQ and then 40 writing the LEQ, but there are no rules on when each essay must be worked on. There are three prompts for the LEQ, but only one needs to be chosen. Each LEQ prompt addresses a different period, with one addressing periods 1 & 2, another addressing periods 3 & 4, and a third addressing periods 5 & 6.\n\nThe DBQ counts for 25% of the total exam score, and the LEQ is 15%. The essays are out of seven points and six points, respectively. Students are required to analyze and synthesize the documents of the DBQ, but some outside information is still needed. The LEQ only provides a prompt and no sort of stimulus, so a large amount of outside information is necessary.\n\nAP World History Test Grade Distribution: \nIn 2012, the head of AP Grading, Trevor Packer, stated that the reason for the low percentages of 5s is that \"AP World History is a college-level course, & many sophomores aren't yet writing at that level.\" 10.44 percent of all seniors who took the exam in 2012 received a 5, while 6.62 percent of sophomores received a 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "427721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427721", "title": "ARS++", "text": "ARS++\n\nARS++ was developed in 2002 for the book \"Undiluted Programming\" to demonstrate ARS based programming in a real world context. ARS++ is used in the book to implement an A++ interpreter and an XML Database System. Even the implementation of ARS++ in C was used to demonstrate ARS-based programming.\n\nPrincipally the programming language Scheme would have been perfectly all right to be used for these demonstration programs if Scheme would include primitives supporting network programming, database programming plus a few others required in this context.\n\nThe definition of the programming language Scheme does not include those primitives however, leaving this issue up to the implementors of the language. The consequence is that there exist many Scheme implementations, almost none of them covering all areas essential for real application programs. This is the historical background that gave birth to the development of ARS++.\n\nThe name ARS++, being an acronym for ARS + Scheme + Extensions, indicates that ARS++ has a lot to do with Scheme but that it is not equivalent to Scheme.\n\n\nFrom a practical point of view a Scheme implementation that includes support for regular expressions, databases, sockets and also provides an interface to the operating system can be called an ARS++ language.\n\n"}
{"id": "2781588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2781588", "title": "After-action review", "text": "After-action review\n\nAn after action review (AAR) is a structured review or de-brief (debriefing) process for analyzing \"what\" happened, \"why\" it happened, and \"how\" it can be done better by the participants and those responsible for the project or event. After-action reviews in the formal sense were originally developed by the U.S. Army. Formal AARs are used by all US military services and by many other non-US organizations. Their use has extended to business as a knowledge management tool and a way to build a culture of accountability.\n\nAn AAR occurs within a cycle of establishing the leader's intent, planning, preparation, action and review. An AAR is distinct from a de-brief in that it begins with a clear comparison of intended vs. actual results achieved. An AAR is distinct from a post-mortem in its tight focus on participant's own action; learning from the review is taken forward by the participants. Recommendations for others are not produced. AARs in larger operations can be cascaded in order to keep each level of the organization focused on its own performance within a particular event or project.\n\nFormal AAR meetings are normally run by a facilitator, and can be chronological reviews or tightly focused on a few key issues selected by the team leader. Short cycle informal AARs are typically run by the team leader or assistant and are very quick.\n\nThere are basically two types of military AARs—formal and informal. Formal AARs require more detailed planning, preparation, and resources. They are normally scheduled and conducted as a part of external and internal evaluations. Informal AARs require less planning and preparation than formal AARs and are often on-the-spot reviews of soldier and collective training performance at crew, squad, or platoon level.\n\nFormal AARs are normally conducted at company level and above. However, when a training event is focused at squad or platoon level, and resources are available, a formal AAR may be conducted to gain maximum training benefit. Externally evaluated lane training, small-unit ARTEPs, and tank and BFV gunnery tables are prime examples. Informal crew, squad, and platoon AARs are held prior to company and higher-echelon AARs.\n\nThe AAR facilitator (evaluator or controller) provides a mission and task overview and leads a discussion of events and activities that focuses on the objectives. The discussion with leaders and soldiers should orient on the use of terrain integration of key BOS ( Battlefield Operating Systems), and leader actions. The discussion should also examine the weapons systems and doctrine used by the enemy during the exercise. At the close, the AAR leader summarizes comments from the observers, covering strengths and weaknesses discussed during the AAR and what the unit needs to do to fix the weaknesses.\n\nInformal AARs are usually conducted for soldier and crew-, squad-, and platoon-level training or when resources are not available to conduct a formal review. They are often held for lower echelons prior to a formal company- or higher-level AAR, though they may be conducted at company level. Informal AARs are extremely important since they involve all soldiers and leaders in the participating unit. The formal company AARs for the training event depend on these thorough, informal reviews. These are sometimes referred to as a hotwash.\n\nInformal AARs are conducted similar to formal AARs and may be done for large or small units. They may be scheduled, or leaders may do on-the-spot reviews during the training. Discussion comments could be recorded to use in follow-on AARs or to apply immediately the lessons learned as the exercise is repeated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6037524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6037524", "title": "Barry Zimmerman", "text": "Barry Zimmerman\n\nBarry J. Zimmerman is an educational researcher at the City University of New York, where he holds the title Distinguished Professor of Educational Psychology. He has written scholarly publications on learning and motivation, many describing his research and theories on self-regulated learning. In 2011, Zimmerman was awarded the E.L. Thorndike Career Achievement award by the American Psychological Association's Division of Educational Psychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "49304088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49304088", "title": "Book desert", "text": "Book desert\n\nA book desert is a geographic area (country, state, county, city, neighborhood, home) where printed books and other reading material are allegedly hard to obtain, particularly without access to an automobile or other form of transportation. Some researchers have defined book deserts by linking them to poverty and low income, while others use a combination of factors that include census data, income, ethnicity, geography, language, and the number of books in a home.\n\nInitiatives that increase the availability of books by such measures as bookmobiles and librarians on bicycles have been offered as possible solutions to book deserts, as have Little Free Libraries and offering children's literature available online, free of charge.\n\nIn the past, researchers have studied how the absence or scarcity of books impact how a child's early literacy and language skills develop. The term \"book desert\" came into regular use in the mid-2010s and the social enterprise Unite for Literacy is credited as having coined the term. Unite for Literacy created an operational definition of a book desert when they published the U.S. Book Desert Map: A geographic area (country, state, county, census tract) where it is predicted that a majority of homes have less than 100 printed books. In March 2014, James LaRue, director of the American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom and the Freedom to Read Foundation, used the term in an issue of \"American Libraries\", where he described the term as applying to houses with 25 or fewer books in them and discussed ways to lessen or eradicate the problem.\n\nIn July 2016, professors Susan B. Neuman and Naomi Moland published a study in \"Urban Education\", where they examined how the lack of printed reading material among low-income and poverty stricken neighborhoods impacts early childhood development and used the term to describe areas and homes with little access to written materials. This study built upon other research Neuman had conducted in 2001 on the same topic and the researchers found few stores in Detroit, Los Angeles, and Washington, D.C.; the focus areas of their research had print resources for children ages 0 through 18. Of those stores, many were dollar stores. \"The Atlantic\" reported that in 2015 Neuman and JetBlue Airways held an experiment to foster literacy by providing book vending machines in a low-income Washington D.C. neighborhood. Over 20,000 books were given away, prompting Neuman to conclude that the neighborhood's parents did care about their children's education but lacked \"the resources to enable their children to be successful.\"\n\nMultiple factors are credited as contributing to the formation of book deserts, the most frequently highlighted of which tends to be poverty and low income. Other factors tend to include language and geography, as some areas lack access to bookstores or public or community school libraries that would provide books. Book store closures due to bankruptcy or other financial difficulties are also occasionally cited as a contributing factor, when the closure leaves the area without a bookseller.\n\nUnite for Literacy has developed a book desert map of the United States powered by Esri's ArcGIS platform, which provides a visual presentation of the lack of books in the nation, states, counties and census tracts. To create the map, Unite for Literacy performed a statistical analyses of data from the National Assessment of Educational Progress and the American Community Survey. Data used in the map includes the number of books in 4th graders' homes, average community income, ethnic diversity, geographic location and home language. Unite for Literacy unveiled the map during the Clinton Global Initiative America (CGI America) meeting held in Denver, Colorado, in June 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "1742729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1742729", "title": "Brubeck Institute", "text": "Brubeck Institute\n\nThe Brubeck Institute is a special program at the University of the Pacific's Conservatory of Music. It was founded in 2000 by noted Jazz pianist and Pacific alum Dave Brubeck.\n\n"}
{"id": "5893283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893283", "title": "Buntús Cainte", "text": "Buntús Cainte\n\nBuntús Cainte () - first steps in spoken Irish - was written by Tomás Ó Domhnalláin in the mid-1960s. It was an Irish-language learning programme, illustrated by William Bolger, and first published in a three volume series by the Stationery Office, Dublin, Ireland, in 1967. It was re-printed eight times between 1974 and 1999 by the Stationery Office and since 2002, it has been re-printed seven times by An Gúm. The more recent re-prints are accompanied by a CD. Copyright is now held by Foras na Gaeilge.\n\nThe programme was broadcast on Raidió Teilifís Éireann in Ireland, beginning in 1967. The show was designed to appeal to young viewers, and was lively and humorous. The programme was presented by Máire O’Neill and Aileen Geoghegan. By November 1967, 218,000 copies of the \"Buntús Cainte\" lessons booklet had been sold.\n\nThe programme catered to people with little or no Irish. Phrases were spoken by the presenters in both Irish and English, and were also overlaid (in Irish) on a simple static cartoon relating to the phrase.\n\nIt is also the title of a series of 3 books which contain the programme material, including the cartoons, the spoken Irish words and the English and Irish text.\n\nBuntús Cainte is currently available in book form, published by Foras na Gaeilge with editions in 2002, 2005, 2006 and 2008. The current editions include remastered versions of the original recordings on Compact Disc.\n\nBuntús Cainte is also available as an MP3 course for iPod, iPhone and iPad. The English and Irish text can be viewed by the learner using the lyrics function on the device.\n\nThe course consists of a series of short lessons in which the presenters speak in Irish. The lessons are accompanied by English and Irish written versions of the spoken words.\n\nEach lesson contains new words, basic sentences for each of the new words, revisionary sentences, a second section of new material and a situational conversation.\nThe book's lessons are intended to be used with recorded versions of the Irish words and sentences they contain. The current publications, unlike earlier ones, come with the recordings.\n\nIt is available as three books, Part One, Part Two and Part Three.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15783028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15783028", "title": "Caitriona Reed", "text": "Caitriona Reed\n\nCaitriona Reed (born 1949) is a trans woman sensei of Thiền Zen Buddhism who also has a background in Vipassanā meditation. She co-founded Ordinary Dharma in Los Angeles, California; the rural Manzanita Village Retreat Center, located in San Diego County; and Five Changes, to mentor aspiring leaders, cultural creatives, and spiritual visionaries. Reed, a member of the American Zen Teachers Association, led retreats and workshops in Vipassana, Deep Ecology, and Buddhism 1981-2008. She received authority to teach Zen from Thich Nhat Hanh in 1992.\n\nShe is a 'woman of transsexual experience' who transitioned in 1996. She stated about her transitioning, \"As a teacher encouraging others to live more honest and authentic lives, it was increasingly difficult for me to deny a basic fact—that I was a woman.\"\n\nCurrently, informed by her work as a Buddhist teacher, Reed focuses on public speaking; mentoring individual clients; and together with her partner Michele Benzamin-Miki conducting professional certification training in neuro-linguistic programming and hypnotherapy with an emphasis holistic approaches to life-coaching and personal and professional mentorship.\n\nPrior to her transition Reed married her long-time partner (since 1981) artist, Aikido and Iaido Sensei Michele Benzamin-Miki. They continue living and working together.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17687298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17687298", "title": "Carolina Ferni", "text": "Carolina Ferni\n\nCarolina Ferni (20 August 1846 – 4 June 1926) was an Italian violinist and operatic soprano.\n\nFerni was born in Como. She began her career as a violinist in Paris and Brussels, and later studied voice with famed soprano Giuditta Pasta. She made her stage debut in Turin in 1862 as Leonora in Donizetti's \"La favorite\". She sang at La Scala in Milan (1866–68) as Norma, Selika and Saffo, among other roles. In Agostino Mercuri's opera \"Il Violino del Diavolo\", she both sang and played the violin.\n\nShe was married to the prominent Verdi baritone Leone Giraldoni (1824–1897). They had a son, Eugenio Giraldoni, whom she taught. Like his father, Eugenio became an operatic baritone, creating the role of Scarpia in Puccini's \"Tosca\" in 1900.\n\nFerni retired from the stage in 1883, and opened a singing school in Milan, and later in St. Petersburg, Russia. Among her students was the soprano Eugenia Burzio. She died in Milan in 1926, two years after her son.\n\n"}
{"id": "39935010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39935010", "title": "Center for Open Science", "text": "Center for Open Science\n\nThe Center for Open Science is a non-profit technology organization based in Charlottesville, Virginia with a mission to \"increase the openness, integrity, and reproducibility of scientific research.\" Brian Nosek and Jeffrey Spies founded the organization in January 2013, funded mainly by the Laura and John Arnold Foundation and others, after implementation and use of the Open Science Framework (OSF).\n\nThe organization began with work in reproducibility of psychology research, with the large-scale \"\". A second reproducibility project for cancer biology research has also been started through a partnership with Science Exchange. In March 2017, the Center published a detailed strategic plan. Brian Nosek posted a letter outlining the history of the Center and future directions.\n\nThe Open Science Framework (OSF) is an open source software project that facilitates open collaboration in science research. This framework was used to work on a project in the reproducibility of psychology research. The current reproducibility project is a crowdsourced empirical investigation of the reproducibility of a variety of studies from psychological literature. The reproducibility project samples from three major journals: \"Journal of Personality and Social Psychology\", \"Psychological Science\", and \"\". Scientists from all over the world volunteer to replicate a study of their choosing from these journals, and follow a structured protocol for designing and conducting a high-powered replication of the key effect. The results were published in 2015. Whilst OSF initially focused on psychology, it has since broadened into any research field.\n\nIn 2016 the group released three new open source preprint services covering the fields of engineering, engrXiv, one that covers social sciences, SocArxiv, and one for psychology, psyArXiv. Currently partner repositories include: AgriXiv, arabixiv, BITSS, Earth ArXiv, engrXiv, FocUS Archive, Frenxiv, INA-Rxiv, LawArXiv, LIS Scholarship Archive (LISSA), MarXiv, MindRxiv, NutriXiv, Paleorxiv, PsyArXiv, SocArxiv, SportRxiv, and Thesis Commons (theses and dissertations). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "649226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=649226", "title": "China Academy of Art", "text": "China Academy of Art\n\nChina Academy of Art (), also translated as China National Academy of Fine Arts, is a fine arts college under the direct charge of the Ministry of Culture of China. It was founded in Hangzhou in 1928 by the government of the Republic of China and the renowned educator Cai Yuanpei. It was the first art university and first graduate school in Chinese history. It is a Chinese Ministry of Education Double First Class Discipline University, with Double First Class status in certain disciplines.\n\nAt the time, China Academy of Art's goal was to promote fine arts education as a replacement for religion in the then war-torn China. Fine arts has been held as equal to a religion at the institution for almost eight decades. The academy has many renowned artists in its alumni and is considered one of the most prestigious art institutions in the country. It is colloquially called Guomei (國美).\n\nChina Academy of Art is the most influential academy of fine arts with the most complete range of degree offerings and programs of study in China. It houses a diverse pool of artistic talent, has a distinctive structure integrating theory and practice, focuses on human care and social needs, and combines modern technical and cultural disciplines with traditional artistic ones. The academy features the study of theories and offering Ph.D., Master’s and bachelor's degrees of fine arts, design,architecture, film and new media, which constitute the humanities and reflect the Chinese national spirit and creative theories of the era.\n\nThere are 7,000 undergraduate and graduate students in three campuses with a faculty and staff of 800. The administration is headquartered in the Nanshan Campus, which is on the West Lake in Hangzhou. Students in the Master's program live on the alternate campus 40 minutes away, on the outskirts of Hangzhou. A free bus is offered to transport students to and from the campus from the dorms at designated times.\n\nUndergraduate students typically spend one year in general education courses in the Department of Foundation and then three years in the core courses of their particular majors. Graduate courses are typically three years long and include experience in the studio and research with mentoring faculty.\n\nIn 1928, the National Academy of Art (國立藝術院) was founded in China on the bank of the West Lake in Hangzhou by the educator Cai Yuanpei with Lin Fengmian. It was administrated by Yi Tingbai and Zhuang ziman during the 1940s. Over the decades, the location of the academy has changed ten times; its name changed six times, as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19610836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19610836", "title": "Douglas Kirby", "text": "Douglas Kirby\n\nDouglas Bernard Kirby, Ph.D. (October 9, 1943 − December 22, 2012) was senior research scientist for ETR Associates in Scotts Valley, California, and one of the world’s leading experts on the effectiveness of school and community programs in the reduction of adolescent sexual risk-taking behaviors. In recent years he had also undertaken research and analysis on the impact of HIV/AIDS prevention programs in Uganda under the auspices of the World Health Organization, USAID, and other organizations.\n\nKirby authored over 100 articles, chapters and monographs on these programs including the widely acclaimed \"Emerging Answers 2007: Research Findings on Programs to Reduce Teen Pregnancy and Sexually Transmitted Diseases\" which he produced for the National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy. It is a comprehensive review of 115 program evaluations to help determine the most effective approaches to preventing teen pregnancy and STDs. It paints a detailed picture of the protective factors associated with adolescent risk taking behavior and identifies important characteristics of effective sexuality and HIV education programs. His recent research has shown strong evidence for the effectiveness of comprehensive sex and STD/HIV programs and limited evidence for the effectiveness of sexual abstinence programs.\n\nDouglas Kirby was born in Walla Walla, Washington. He did his undergraduate education at the University of Chicago and UC Berkeley, receiving his Bachelor of Arts in 1966. After a stint as a Vista volunteer in Appalachia, Kirby attended UCLA where he received his Ph.D. in Sociology in 1975. From 1977 to 1983 he worked as Director of the Social Science Group for Mathtech, Inc. in Washington D.C.. While at Mathtech he directed a research project to analyze the state of sex education in the United States. From 1983 to 1988 he worked with The Center for Population Options (now Advocates for Youth) and did a national study on the impact of school health programs on teen sexual behavior. In 1988, Dr. Kirby went to work for ETR Associates in Scotts Valley, CA. where he served as Senior Research Scientist and director of many projects on adolescent health and risk taking behavior. His father, Bernard C. Kirby, was a sociology professor at San Diego State University (1954–1975), and his brother Robion Kirby, is a professor of mathematics at UC Berkeley. Dr. Kirby died of a heart attack at the age of 69 on December 22, 2012, while climbing Cotopaxi volcano in Ecuador.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5934062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5934062", "title": "Education in Ghana", "text": "Education in Ghana\n\nEducation in Ghana was mainly informal, and based on apprenticeship before the arrival of European settlers, who introduced a formal education system addressed to the elites. Pre-Independent Ghana was known as the Gold Coast. The economy of Pre-Colonial Gold Coast was mainly dependent on subsistence farming where farm produces were shared within households and members of each household specialized in providing their household with other necessities such as cooking utilities, shelter, home, clothing and furnitures. Trade with other households was therefore practiced in a very small scale. This has made economic activities in pre-colonial Gold Coast a family institution/customs; family owned and family controlled. As such, there was no need for employment outside the household which would have otherwise called for discipline(s), value(s) and skill(s) through a formal education system. Pre-Colonial Gold Cost therefore practiced an informal education(apprenticeship) until it was colonized and its economy became a hybrid of subsistence and formal economy.\n\nAfter Ghana's Independence in 1957, Ghana's first prime minister Dr. Kwame Nkrumah led Ghana into rapid industrialization which led to lesser emphasis on agriculture and other subsistence economic activities in Ghana. The rapid industrialization in Ghana were however centered in the Southern part of Ghana ( Accra, Takoradi, Tema) therefore making most of the manufacturing and service activities centered around the southern part of Ghana. The rapid industrialization in Ghana saw high waves of migrations of people from rural areas that used to be actively engaged in agriculture to cities in the Southern part of Ghana in search for service and manufacturing industrial employments. Ghana's urban population increased by 23% between 1960 to 2005 and the rate of urbanization in Ghana between 2005 to 2010 was 3.6%, making Ghana's urban population(51.5%), 3% more than Ghana's rural population(48.5%). Between 1974 and 1982, agriculture dropped drastically; maize production dropped by 54%, rice by 80%, yam by 55% and cassava by 50%.\n\nGhana's rapid shift from an informal economy to formal economy made education an important political objective in Ghana. The magnitude of the task, as well as economic difficulties and political instabilities, have slowed down attempted reforms. The Education Act of 1987, followed by the Constitution of 1992, gave a new impulse to educational policies in the country. In 2011, the primary school net enrollment rate was 84%, described by UNICEF as \"far ahead\" of the Sub-Saharan average. In its 2013-14 report, the World Economic Forum ranked Ghana 46th out of 148 countries for education system quality. In 2010, Ghana's literacy rate was 71.5%, with a notable gap between men (78.3%) and women (65.3%). The Guardian newspaper disclosed in April 2015 that 90% of children in Ghana were enrolled in school, ahead of countries like Pakistan and Nigeria at 72% and 64% respectively.\n\nEducation indicators in Ghana reflect a gender gap and disparities between rural and urban areas, as well as between southern and northern parts of the country. Those disparities drive public action against illiteracy and inequities in access to education. Eliminating illiteracy has been a constant objective of Ghanaian education policies for the last 40 years; the difficulties around ensuring equitable access to education is likewise acknowledged by the authorities. Public action in both domains has yielded results judged significant but not sufficient by national experts and international organizations. Increasing the place of vocational education and training and of ICT (information and communications technology) within the education system are other clear objectives of Ghanaian policies in education. The impact of public action remains hard to assess in these fields due to recent implementation or lack of data. \nEfforts to reconstruct vocational and technical education in Ghana are being made.\n\nThe Ministry of Education is responsible for the administration and the coordination of public action regarding Education. Its multiple agencies handle the concrete implementation of policies, in cooperation with the local authorities (10 regional and 138 district offices). The State also manages the training of teachers. Many private and public colleges prepare applicants to pass the teacher certification exam to teach at the primary level. Two universities offer special curricula leading to secondary education teacher certification. Education represented 23% of the state expenditure in 2010; international donor support to the sector has steadily declined as the State has taken on the bulk of education funding.\n\nEducation in Ghana is divided into three phases: basic education (kindergarten, primary school, lower secondary school), secondary education (upper secondary school, technical and vocational education) and tertiary education (universities, polytechnics and colleges). Education is compulsory between the ages of four and 15 (basic education). The language of instruction is mainly English. The academic year usually runs from August to May inclusive.\n\nIn precolonial times, education in Ghana was informal. Knowledge and competencies were transmitted orally and through apprenticeships. The arrival of European settlers during the 16th century brought new forms of learning; formal schools appeared, providing a book-based education. Their audience was mainly made up of local elites (mulattos, sons of local chiefs and wealthy traders) and their presence was limited to the colonial forts, long confined to the coasts. The 19th century saw the increasing influence of Great Britain over the Ghanaian territories that led to the establishment of the Gold Coast Colony in 1874. With it came a growing number of mission schools and merchant companies, the Wesleyan and the Basel missions being the most present . The Wesleyan mission stayed on the coasts with English as main language. The Basel mission expanded deeper inland and used vernacular languages as the medium of proselytizing. With the support of the British government, missions flourished in a heavily decentralized system that left considerable room for pedagogical freedom. Missions remained the main provider of formal education until independence. Under colonial rule, formal education remained the privilege of the few.\n\nGhana obtained its independence in 1957. The new government of Nkrumah described education as the key to the future and announced a high-level university providing an \"African point of view\", backed by a free universal basic education. In 1961, the Education Act introduced the principle of free and compulsory primary education and the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology was established. As a result, the enrollment almost doubled the next year. This sudden expansion was, however, hard to handle; Ghana quickly fell short of trained teachers and the quality of the curriculum (lacks in English or in Mathematics) was put into question. The fall of Nkrumah in 1966 was followed by stronger criticisms toward the expansion of education at the cost of quality. Despite the rapid increase of school infrastructures, the enrollment slowly declined until 1973. The year 1974 saw attempts of reforms. Based on the “Dozbo committee report”, they followed 2 goals: reducing the length of pre-tertiary education (The structure primary school/Junior High School/Senior High school was created) and modifying programs in order to promote more practical contents at school. Those reforms were, however, very partially implemented due to financial limitations and political instability. The economic situation of the country worsened at the beginning of the 80's. Into an economic downturn, the country was failing at solving the deficit of teachers, maintaining the infrastructures and convincing the parents to bet on school instead of a paid work. Gross Enrolment Ratio(GER) dropped sharper in response, falling below 70% in 1985.\n\nThe year 1987 marked the beginning of new series of reforms: The military coup of Jerry Rawlings in 1981 had been followed by a period of relative political stability and opened the way to broader international support. The Rawlings government had gathered enough founds from numerous international organizations (including the World bank) and countries to afford massive changes to the educational system. The 1987 Education Act aimed at turning the 1974’s Dozbo committee measures into reality: a national literacy campaign was launched, pre-tertiary education was reduced from 17 to 12 years and vocational education appeared in Junior High School. Education was made compulsory from 6 to 14. The reform succeeded in imposing a new education structure, as well as to increase the enrollment and the number of infrastructure. Yet the promise of universal access to basic education was not fulfilled. Vocational programs were also considered as a failure. The return to constitutional rule in 1992, though still under Rawlings government, gave a new impulse by reclaiming the duty of the state to provide a free and compulsory basic education for all. The local government Act of 1993 initiated the decentralization in education administration, by transferring power to district assemblies. The Free, Compulsory and Universal Basic Education(FCUBE) provided an action plan for the period 1996-2005, focusing on bridging the gender gap in primary-school, improving teaching materials and teacher’s living condition. It was later completed by significant acts, like the creation of the “Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training” in order to promote vocational education(2006), or the founding of the national accreditation board (2007), introducing a national accreditation for all tertiary level institution. In 2007-2008, the two years in Kindergarten were added to the free and compulsory education (which is now going age 4 to 14).\n\nGhana's spending on education has been around 25% of its annual budget in the past decade.\n\nThe Ghanaian education system from Kindergarten up to an undergraduate degree level takes 20 years.\n\nThe ratio of females to males in the total education system was 96.38% in 2011. The adult literacy rate in Ghana was 71.5% in 2010, with males at 78.3% and females at 65.3%. The youth female and male ages 15–24 years literacy rate in Ghana was 81% in 2010, with males at 82%, and females at 80%.\n\nSince 2008, enrollment has continually increased at all level of education (pre-primary, primary, secondary and tertiary education). With 84% of its children in primary school, Ghana has a school enrollment \"far ahead\" of its sub-saharian neighbor's.\nThe number of infrastructures has increased consequently on the same period. Vocational Education (in \"TVET institutes\", not-including SHS vocational and technical programs) is the only exception, with an enrollment decrease of 1,3% and the disappearance of more than 50 institutions between the years 2011/12 and 2012/2013. This drop would be the result of the low prestige of Vocational Education and the lack of demand from industry.\n\nMinistry of Education statistics showed 261,962 tertiary students during the 2011/2012 schoolyear: 202,063 in the public sector and 59,899 in the private sector, attending 142 institutions.\n\nIn 2011, the primary school net enrolment rate was 84%, a figure described by UNICEF as \"far ahead\" of the Sub-Saharan average. In its 2013-14 report, the World Economic Forum ranked Ghana 46th out of 148 countries regarding the education system quality.\n\nThe Ghanaian education system is divided in three parts: \"Basic Education\", secondary cycle and tertiary Education. \"Basic Education\" lasts 11 years(Age 4-15), is free and compulsory. It is divided into Kindergarten(2 years), primary school(2 modules of 3 years) and Junior High school(3 years). The junior high school(JHS) ends on the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE). Once the BECE achieved, the pupil can pursue into secondary cycle. Secondary cycle can be either general (assumed by Senior High School) or vocational(assumed by technical Senior High School, Technical and vocational Institutes and a massive private and informal offer). Senior High school lasts three years and ends on the West African Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). Other secondary institutions leads to various certifications and diplomas. Tertiary education is basically divided into university (academic education) and Polytechnics(vocational education). The WASSCE is needed to join a university bachelor's degree program.A bachelor's degree lasts 4 years and can be followed by a 1 or 2 year Master. The student is then free to start a Phd, usually completed in 3 years. Polytechnics are opened to vocational students, from SHS or from TVI. A Polytechnic curriculum lasts 2 to 3 years. Ghana also possesses numerous colleges of education. New tertiary education graduates have to serve one year within the National Service Scheme. The Ghanaian education system from Kindergarten up to an undergraduate degree level takes 20 years.\n\nThe academic year usually goes from August to May inclusive. The school year lasts 40 weeks in Primary school and SHS, and 45 weeks in JHS.\n\nBasic Education lasts 11 years. The curriculum is free and compulsory (Age 4-15) and is defined as \"the minimum period of schooling needed to ensure that children acquire basic literacy, numeracy, and problem-solving skills as well as skills for creativity and healthy living\". It is divided into Kindergarten, Primary school and Junior High School (JHS), which ends on the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE).\n\nKindergarten lasts 2 years (Age 4-6). The program is divided into 6 core areas: Language and Literacy (Language Development), Creative Activities (Drawing and Writing), Mathematics (Number Work), Environmental Studies, Movement and Drama (Music and Dance), and Physical Development (Physical Education)\n\nPrimary school lasts 6 years (Age 6-11). The courses taught at the primary or basic school level include English, Ghanaian languages and Ghanaian culture, ICT, mathematics, environmental studies, social studies, Mandarin and French as an OIF associated-member; integrated or general science, pre-vocational skills and pre-technical skills, religious and moral education, and physical activities such as Ghanaian music and dance, and physical education. There is no certificate of completion at the end of primary school.\n\nJunior Secondary School lasts 3 years(Age 12-15). The Junior High School ends on the Basic Education Certificate(BECE), which covers the following subjects:English Language, Ghanaian Language and Culture, Social Studies, Integrated Science, Mathematics, Basic, Design and Technology, Information and Communication Technology, French (optional), Religious and Moral Education.\n\nStudents who pass the BECE can proceed into secondary education, general or vocational.\n\nThe secondary general education is assumed by the Senior High School(SHS). The SHS curriculum is composed of core subjects, completed by elective subjects(chosen by the students). The core subjects are English language, mathematics, integrated science (including science, ICT and environmental studies) and social studies (economics, geography, history and government). The students then choose 3 or 4 elective subjects from 5 available programmes: agriculture programme, general programme (divided in 2 options: arts or science), business programme, vocational programme and technical programme.\n\nThe Senior high school's curriculum lasts 3 years, as a result of numerous reforms: Originally a three-year curriculum, it was extended to 4 years in 2007. However, in early 2009 this reform returned SHS to a 3-year curriculum. The length of the SHS is still a disputed question.\n\nThe SHS ends on a final exam called the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), formerly called Senior Secondary School Certificate (SSSC) before 2007. A SHS ranking is established every year by the Statistics, Research, Information, Management and Public Relations (SRIMPR) division of the ministry of Education, based on the WASSCE results.\n\nVocational and technical Education (also called “TVET”) take different forms. After obtaining the BECE, students who wish to pursue in vocational Education have two main possibilities: Following the vocational and technical programs as elective courses in a SHS, or joining a technical and vocational institute(TVI).\nSHS students follow the usual SHS 3 year curriculum. They can then – provided sufficient results at the WASSCE – join a university or polytechnic program. TVI students usually follow a 4-year curriculum, divided into two cycles of two years, leading to “awards from City & Guilds, the Royal Society of Arts or the West African Examinations Council\". They can then pursue a polytechnic program. The state of vocational education sector remains however obscure in Ghana: 90% of the vocational education is still informal, taking the form of apprenticeship. The offer of formal vocational education within the private sector is also hard to define and the Ministry of Education recognizes its incapacity to give a clear overview of the public vocational education, many ministries having their own programs.\n\nInternational schools also exist in Ghana: the Takoradi International School, Tema International School, Galaxy International School, The Roman Ridge School, Ghana International School, Lincoln Community School, Faith Montessori School, American International School, Association International School, New Nation School, SOS Hermann Gmeiner International College and International Community School, which offer the International Baccalaureat, Advanced Level General Certificate of Education and the International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE).\n\nTertiary education in Ghana has been notably growing during the last twenty years, both in terms of enrollment and infrastructures. A substantial part of this development come from the private sector.\n\nUniversities(6 public and 49 private institutions) offer an academic education, from bachelor to Phd. Students are admitted based on their performance at the W.A.S.S.C.E (West African Senior School Certificate Examination\"): A maximum of 24 points is generally required in order to apply to a Bachelor degree program(see Grading system in Ghana). A bachelor degree is usually completed after four years of majoring in a specific field of interest. Master degrees are of two sorts: A one year program, concluded with a final paper based on a literature study, or a two-year program, concluded with a final paper based on one year of independent research. Both can lead to a Ph.D., usually achieved in 3 years within a doctoral programme.\n\nPolytechnics (10 institutions) offer a vocational education. They propose 3-year curricula, leading to a Higher National Diploma(HND). The students have then the possibility to follow a special 18-month program to achieve a Bachelor of Technology degree.\n\nGhana also possesses many \"colleges of education\", public or private. They are usually specialized in one field (colleges of agriculture p.e) or in one work-training (Nursing training colleges, teacher training colleges, p.e).\n\nNew tertiary education graduates have to serve one year within the National Service. Participants can serve in one of the eight following sectors: Agriculture, Health, Education, Local Government, Rural Development, Military and Youth Programmes\n\nGhana’s grading system is different at every point in education. Through the kindergarten to the junior high, every grade a student gains is written in terms of numbers instead of alphabets. There is no system of pluses and minuses (no \"1+\"’s or \"6+\"’s as grades).\n\nSenior high school\n\nUntil 2007, Senior secondary High school ended with the Senior Secondary School Certificate(SSSC). Its grading system went from A to E. In 2007, the SSSC was replaced by the West African Secondary School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). The WASSCE grading system adds numbers to the letters, offering a larger scale of evaluation. In both systems, each grade refers to a certain number of points. In order to join a Bachelor degree program, applicants are usually asked not to exceed 24 points at their WASSCE/SSSC.\nTertiary education\n\nThe grading system varies from institution to institution. Almost all the tertiary institutions are based on the Grade Point Average (G.P.A) as a way of assessing whether a student is failing or passing. But individual schools have their own way of calculating GPA's, because of their individualized marking schemes. For example, a mark of 80 may be an A in a school but may be an A+ in another school.\n\nThe Ghanaian government cannot bear the costs in Education alone, thus private institutions and individuals build and operate private institutions to help the government deal with costs in education. The Ghanian government is incapable of providing increasing educational services. Education in Ghana has therefore become a shared effort by both the government and private institution, in order to make up for financial inefficiency, on the side of the government and make education accessible to all. There is a call for public-private partnership in education in most developing countries due to the growing involvement of private actors in education.\n\nThe structure of this joint effort by the public and private sectors to address the problem of financing education at the basic or elementary level is as follows:\nPrivate involvement in education has led to establishment of private schools and institutions which have affected education in Ghana. Private primary and junior high schools in Ghana outnumber the public schools in Ghana. 74.7% of 779 primary and junior secondary schools were identified as private schools in a census conducted in the Ga district of Ghana, while the remaining 25.3% were identified as government or public schools. Over the past 20 years, private school attending students in developing countries, increased by 11%; from 11% to 22%.\n\nEducation in Ghana is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. Implementation of policies is assumed by its numerous agencies: The Ghana Education Service (GES) is responsible for the coordination of national education policy on pre-tertiary education. It shares this task with three autonomous bodies, the National Inspectorate Board (NIB), the National Teaching Council (NTC) and the National Council for Curriculum and Assessment (NCCA). The terminal examinations of the pre-tertiary education are conducted by the West African Examination Council (National Office, Ghana): it includes the BECE and the WASCCE but also foreign professional examination. The Council for Technical and vocational education and Training is dedicated to the management of TVET. The collection and analysis of educational data is handled by the Education Management Information System (EMIS).\n\nPolicies are implemented in cooperation with the local offices: Ghana is divided into 10 regional and 138 local offices. The Ghana Education Decentralization Project (GEDP), launched in 2010 and ended in 2012, has increased the influence of local authorities over management, finance, and operational issues when it comes to educational matters.\n\nThe Ghanaian State has dedicated 23% of its expenditure to education in 2010. More than 90% of this budget is spent by the Ministry of Education and its agencies: Primary education (31% of the expenditure) and tertiary education(21,6%) are the most provided.\nThe expenditures are partly funded by donors. Among them can be found the World Bank, the United States (through the USAID), the United Kingdom(through the DfID) and the European Union. Their participation is usually project-focused and granted under certain condition, giving them a certain influence. This influence can provoke debates when it comes to key-reforms: For the FCUBE project, the World Bank imposed book charges in primary schools and reduced feeding and boarding costs in secondary schools. Facing criticisms, the Bank insisted on the “strong domestic ownership” of the reform and the necessity to ensure “cost recovery”.\nBetween 2005 and 2012, the part of donors in the Ghanaian budget has fallen from 8.5 to 2.5% of the total education expenditure.\n\nColleges of Education are the main teacher training institutions: There are 38 public and 3 private \"CoE\" split in then 10 Ghanaian regions. They offer a three-year curriculum that leads to the Diploma in Basic Education(DBE). The education is described as “uniform” and with a “national focus” even if CoE are present in every Ghanaian regions. The final examinations granting the DBE are conducted by the public University of Cape Coast’s Institute of Education. The holders of the DBE are allowed to teach at every level of the Basic education(Kindergarten, Primary school, Junior Secondary School).\n\nApart from the Colleges of education, two universities (Cape Coast and Winneba) train teachers. A specific four-year bachelor's degree allows to teach in any pre-tertiary education (most graduates choosing secondary education). A specific master's degree is needed for teaching in CoE. Universities also offer to DBE graduate a two-curriculum granting the right to teach in secondary education.\n\nDistance education is also possible: the programme lasts four years and leads to the Untrained Teacher’s Diploma in Basic Education (UTDBE). It was introduced to increase the number of basic education teachers in the rural area. Serving teacher can also benefit of continuing education (in-service training, cluster).\n\nPublic action against illiteracy started more than 50 years ago in Ghana. Initiated in the 1940s by the British rulers, its eradication was raised to top-priority at the independence in 1957. Political unrests however limited political actions to sporadic short-term programmes, until 1987 and the creation of the Non-Formal Education Division (NFED), whose goal was to eliminate illiteracy by 2000. After a convincing try in 2 regions, the Functional Literacy Skills Project (FLSP) was expanded to the whole country in 1992. In 2000, the programme was taken over by the National Functional Literacy Programme (FNLP), which is still active nowadays. Those programmes focus on gender and geographical inequalities. Women and people living in rural area are their main targets. In 2004, there were 1238 “Literacy centers”, situated mostly in non-urban area.\n\nThe successive projects led to statistical progress. In 1997, 64% of women were illiterate for 38% of men, for a global literacy rate of 54%. In 2010, women literacy was 65% and the global literacy rate had increased to 71.5%. Academics, however, pointed out the insufficient progress of women literacy and the difficulty for graduated to upkeep their new skills.\nOther forms of non-formal education are also conducted by the NFED: \"Life-skills training\" (Family planning, hygiene, prevention on AIDS) targeting adolescent and young mother, \"Occupational skills training\" for unemployed adults or \"civil awareness\" seminars (on civil rights and duties) addressed to illiterate adults.\n\nThere is an informal education sector in Ghana, which is usually made up of which is usually made up of training, vocational, and technical institutions. These training, technical, and vocational institutions are informal because they do not take place in a classroom setting; these trainings usually take the form of apprenticeship, direct learning, practice, and supervision from trainers. There is usually no official or recognized certification or qualifications given to trainees.\n\nDeveloping technical and vocational education and training(TVET) is considered a priority by central authorities in order to tackle poverty and unemployment.\n\nTVET in Ghana face numerous problems: low completion rate (in 2011, 1.6% of the population got a TVET degree whereas 11% of the population followed a TVET programme), « poorly trained instructor » and lack of infrastructure. The Ghanaian industry also criticizes the lack of practical experience of the formal graduates and the lack of basic skills(reading, writing) of informal apprentices. In 2008, the OECD reproached the opacity of the qualifications framework and the multiplication of worthless TVET certificates. The official council for TVET observed that informal or graduated TVET students struggle to find a job, and then have to deal with income volatility or low wages. TVET, therefore, suffer from a poor reputation among students, parents and employers.\n\nIn 2005, a micro-credit system in favor of low-skilled unemployed youth was implemented(STEP programme). In 2006, the Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training(COTVET) was created and entrusted with the mission of coordination \"TVET policies\" in Ghana. The council introduced a National Youth Found in 2006, and proposed a TVET qualifications framework in 2010. It tries besides to frame the informal sector through a National Apprenticeship Programme(NAP) and to strengthen guidance and counselling at basic education level.\n\nImpacts are, however, difficult to assess : TVET in Ghana is still hard to grasp. 90% is informal and both the public and private sectors are highly segmented. The ministry of Education itself admits its incapacity to provide a global statistic view of the TVET sector in Ghana.\n\nWith the rise of enrollment in secondary education, competition for joining higher education institution has globally increased: In 2001, the university of Ghana had admitted 96% of the relevant applications it had received. In 2011, this acceptance rate had fallen to 52%.\nThis increasing selectivity highlights inequalities in Ghana regarding Education: Being a woman or living in a rural area can reduce the chance of reaching tertiary Education. Socioeconomic status is also a factor of exclusion, as studying at the highest level is expensive: Public universities have no tuition fee but usually demand payment for other charges: registration fee, technology fee, examination fee, academic facility user fee, medical services fee. These charges can lead to self-censorship behaviors, some students choosing, for instance, Teacher Training Colleges (where students can receive stipends) instead of joining a university.\n\nPolicies has been developed to limit those inequalities: Some universities have, for instance, lowered their minimum entry requirement or created scholarship for students from the \"less-endowed secondary school\". A \"Girls Education unit\" has been created by the government within the Ghana Education Service, in order to reduce gender-biased disparities: The unit tries to tackle the problem at its source, focusing on the \"basic Education\" to avoid high female school drop-out from to . Progresses have been made: The proportion of girls in Higher Education has increased from 25%(1999) to 32%(2005).Yet gender still generates inequality, for numerous reasons: Hostile school environment, priority given to the boys in poor families, perpetuation of \"gender roles\" (\"a woman belongs to the household\"), early customary marriages, teenage pregnancy...\n\nHigher education is more heavily male than female and more wealthy than poor:\nComputer technology used for teaching and learning began to receive governments’ attention in the past decade. The ICT in Education Policy of Ghana requires the use of ICT for teaching and learning at all levels of the education system. Attempts have been made by the Ministry of Education to support institutions in the teaching of ICT literacy. Most secondary, and some basic, schools have computer laboratories. Despite the interest in ICT, computers are very limited and are often carried around to ensure that they do not get stolen.\n\nA recent study on the Pedagogical integration of ICTs from 2009-2011 in 10 Ghanaian schools indicates that there is a gap between the policy directives and actual practices in schools. The emphasis of the official curricula is on the development of students’ skills in operating ICTs but not necessarily using the technology as a means of learning subjects other than ICTs. The study also found that the Ministry of Education is currently at the stage of deployment of ICT resources for developing the needed ICT literacy required for integration into teaching/learning.\n\n\n\nState-Institutions\n\nData and reports from external institutions\n"}
{"id": "40538059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40538059", "title": "Feargus Hetherington", "text": "Feargus Hetherington\n\nFeargus Hetherington (born 1979 in Scotland) is a violinist and violist based in Glasgow. He has performed from an early age throughout Scotland and abroad. He arranges music, teaches and presents music workshops and seminars.\n\nHetherington studied at the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland and the Cleveland Institute of Music, Ohio, supported by a Cleveland Institute of Music Scholarship and a Caird Trust Travel Scholarship. He attended summer short courses abroad including the Starling-DeLay Symposium on Violin Studies at the Juilliard School and the Aria International Summer School. In 2001/2002 he was leader of the National Youth Orchestra of Scotland as they toured in Scotland, The Netherlands and Germany. From 2012 - 2014 he has participated in Total Immersion Seminars with Joseph Swensen, in Vermont, USA, supported by the Musicians Benevolent Fund and Creative Scotland (twice).\n\nHetherington teaches violin, viola and chamber music at the University of St Andrews, Scotland, where he also coaches the St Andrews Chamber Orchestra.\n\nHetherington has given unaccompanied recitals featuring works by major classical composers and by contemporary Scottish composers, some of which he has premiered. He has performed many of the major concertos with Scottish orchestras including Violin Concerto (Tchaikovsky), Violin Concerto (Elgar), Bruch's Scottish Fantasy, the Violin Concerto No. 1 (Bruch) with, and \"Autumn\" from Vivaldi's \"The Four Seasons\". Hetherington had first performed this with the Scottish Bach Consort in 1996.\n\nHetherington has collaborated with a number of pianists. During a short tour in October 2014 he was interviewed and performed on \"Classics Unwrapped\" on BBC Radio Scotland. A much earlier review of the same duo noted that Hetherington could spin \"a most beautiful tone ... floating a soft high note as pure and delicate as a thread of goassamer\". A review of the Brahms Viola Sonatas at Edinburgh Festival Fringe in 2014 noted 'virtuosic technique and shrewd musical artistry\". His tour of eight concerts throughout the UK in 2013 with Olga Gorelik ended with a \"breathless audience\" at an Edinburgh Festival Fringe concert, for a programme on 'Elgar and his Contemporaries'. A review of their Scottish tour the previous year indicated that \"this is a partnership which will go far ...\" A series of concerts with Edward Cohen following the programme format used during 'The Golden Age of Violin' (1920 - 1940) culminated with a West End Festival concert in Glasgow and two concerts at the 2015 Edinburgh Festival Fringe. For more than a decade Hetherington has performed in the concert series 'Music for a Summer Afternoon' in the Cathedral of the Isles, Isle of Cumbrae. Since 2013 he has toured regularly with Opera Bohemia's chamber version of Madame Butterfly (solo violin with piano) for small communities. Concerts abroad include New York, Poland, Germany, Sweden and a tour in Ireland. Hetherington has been involved with singers, in innovative art projects, new violin projects and exhibitions\n\nSince 2015 Hetherington has performed with the newly formed Kentigern Quartet, based in Glasgow and since 2010 has led The Auriga Strings in Wiltshire. He is a former member of a number of chamber groups including Symposia, The Frevo Quartet and the Roxburgh Quartet. As a freelance musician Hetherington has performed with many ensembles and orchestras including the Scottish Chamber Orchestra with whom he toured in Germany in 2008. Ensemble leadership included the Heisenberg Ensemble (guest leader since 2010), a thirteen-piece professional ensemble for Benjamin Britten's Opera Albert Herring., Opera Bohemia's Eugene Onegin(Tchaikovsky) and was violinist in the ensemble for \"Hirda\", a Shetland Opera. He has led orchestras and ensembles, including the City of Glasgow Symphony Orchestra, for many major choral works including the Messiah (Handel), The Seasons (Haydn), \"Elgar's The Apostles\", Elgar's \"The Dream of Gerontius\", The Creation (Haydn) and A German Requiem (Brahms).\n\nHetherington performs on contemporary instruments. He was interviewed by the \"Strad\" magazine (July 2014) about his instruments, two of which were made by Neil Kristóf Értz, one in 2001 (now adapted for Baroque repertoire) and the latest in 2007, after Stradivari c. 1715.\n\nHetherington conducted workshops throughout the UK for Live Music Now, and in 2009 gave workshops in Abu Dhabi as part of Abu Dhabi Music and Arts Festival organised by the Abu Dhabi Music & Arts Foundation. As a member of Symposia, he toured in the UK, US and South Africa, promoting specially composed and recorded music, \"The Farmer's Cheese\", for young people with cochlear implants. In 2013/2014 he was invited by the Scottish Ensemble to assist in their Music for Change programme in prisons. He has held seminars and concerts in various educational institutions including Napier University and The University of Edinburgh.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3707753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3707753", "title": "Gaetano Pesce", "text": "Gaetano Pesce\n\nGaetano Pesce (born 8 November 1939) is an Italian architect and a design pioneer of the 20th century. Mr. Pesce was born in La Spezia in 1939, and he grew up in Padua and Florence. During his 50-year career, Mr. Pesce has worked as an architect, urban planner, and industrial designer. His outlook is considered broad and humanistic, and his work is characterized by an inventive use of color and materials, asserting connections between the individual and society, through art, architecture, and design to reappraise mid-twentieth century modern life .\n\nMr. Pesce studied architecture at the University of Venice, with such notable teachers as Carlo Scarpa and Ernesto Rogers. Between 1958 and 1963, Mr. Pesce participated in Gruppo N, an early collective concerned with programmed art patterned after the Bauhaus. Since the 1960s, Gaetano Pesce has been known to relate art to the design of interiors, products, and architecture. The New York Times critic Herbert Muschamp described Mr. Pesce as \"the architectural equivalent of a brainstorm.\" Pesce's well known work includes \"Organic Building\" in Osaka, Japan, a Landmark vertical garden building designed to concealing a complex, computer-controlled hydration system to sustain plant growth, and the interior architecture of the Chiat/Day offices, an early workplace \"village\" modeled after urban life. Among Mr. Pesce's architecture achievements are Les Halles ACIH (1979) and Parc de la Villette (1985), Paris, France, a complex of forms shaped like a running child.\n\nMr. Pesce's prototypical three-dimensional models and architectural drawings are held in the permanent museum collections of MoMA, Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the Cooper-Hewitt Smithsonian Design Museum in New York City; the Philadelphia Museum of Art,PA; San Francisco Museum of Art, California; Victoria and Albert Museum, London; Vitra Design Museum, Germany; Danish Museum of Art & Design, Copenhagen; Centre Pompidou and Musée des Arts Décoratifs, Paris, France, and the Triennale Museum, Milan, Italy.\n\n\nSince the 1960s, Mr. Pesce has researched the function and form of utilitarian and decorative objects, including furniture, jewelry, and shoes, from the perspective of human emotion, environment, and production. Mr. Pesce is known for innovative high-minded modern design with wit and style. Mr. Pesce has challenged accepted standards of abstraction, uniformity, and homogeneity. On the architect designer, critic Susan Slesin wrote, \"For Gaetano Pesce, to be modern is to face the world squarely and use design as a means to comment on it. Mr. Pesce has expanded the established notions of Modernism through the creation functional, imperfect, and warm product design. He connects art and society to design through organic form, for production by B&B Italia (formerly C & B Italia), Vitra, Cassina, and fabric design, such as \"People\" (1987), composed of 570 different figures, all of which incorporate ideas about variation and diversity in contemporary society.\n\nPesce's iconic feminist armchair - a fulsome bulbous form and attached ball-shaped ottoman - alternately referred to as La Mamma, Big Mama, Donna, and Up chair - continues to inspire interpretation nearly 50 years after its creation. According to curator and author of SuperDesign, Maria Cristina Didero, \"Pesce wanted to produce something about the condition of women in the world. The chair can be read as the mother, and the stool her child. But it could also be a ball and chain [suggesting] woman and the prison she was obliged to live in.\"\n\nMr. Pesce is perhaps best known for his work with resin, molds, and casting techniques used to create objects, including vases, chairs, lamps and the two-dimensional reliefs that the designer calls “industrial skins.” Since 1987, he has infused ordinary materials with experimental additives, such as liquid plant resin, and worked with foam and urethane, simplify the manufacturing processes and adapt limited industrial capabilities. Pesce credits the early influence of his student work with three venerable Murano glassmakers — Moretti, Vistosi, and Venini — whose casting techniques for informing his label-defying works of sculpture, furniture, vessels and paintings. Even Pesce's own experimentation in glassmaking has led to inventive techniques and highly original results. Mr. Pesce has even used urethane resin to create necklaces, bracelets, brooches, and rings.\n\nFor Mr. Pesce, the design and development of portable goods have always incorporated craft-specialization, history, humor, and the human need for connection. Mr. Pesce's industrial design techniques such as \"diversified series production\" is a process by which he experiments with materials using a craft manufacturing sensibility applied to mass production methodology. On the production line, for example, factory workers vary proportions to produce a series of objects with a \"one of a kind\" quality.\n\nSocio-political messaging is found in Mr. Pesce's collections, such as \"Nobody’s Perfect\" (2002) by Zerodisegno, and the 2010 series of irregularly shaped tables for Cassina, which together form the recognizable shape of a boot shape, commemorating the 150th anniversary of the Unification of Italy, and celebrate human diversity and connection, as well as one-of-a-kind pieces like “America Table” (2012), with a red-white-and-blue resin tabletop American flag supported on letters that spell “independence,” and “Verbal Abuse” (1994), a tall, grided lamp that bends forward with attachable weights.\n\nMr. Pesce's unconventional mixed-media industrial design and organic forms collected in major museums across the world ascribe the work to the realm of art. A 2014 retrospective exhibition \"The Time of Diversity\" at the MAXXI, National Museum of the 21st Century Arts, Rome, charted the artfulness of Pesce's product design from the 1960s to the present. Recent exhibitions such as “What it is to be Human,” at The Peninsula Chicago, Art Basel in Hong Kong, and an artist-in-resident program at Peninsula Beijing, all featuring works by Gaetano Pesce that expand the renown artist and architect's history of public commitment to the arts. In 2016, Pesce unveiled a site-specific sculpture \"Majesty Betrayed\" in Piazza Santa Maria Novella. The monumental female figure wrapped in a long cloak by Pesce was inspired by the Christian Maestà iconography of the Madonna on the Throne - the highly venerated Madonna Rucellai by Duccio di Boninsegna (1285), in Santa Maria Novella and later moved in the twentieth century the Uffizi. Pesce's sculpture entitled \"Porta Ritratti\" (2018) for the Milan Fuorisalone was exhibited at the entrance of the Brera Academy of Fine Arts, and later, the 13th edition of Design Miami / Basel. The ambitious installation - a chair measuring over 13-feet (4-meters) high representing 20 human faces - according to Pesce, \" is a Trojan horse that penetrates the Rocca dell'Arte making victims among the old mentality.\" The work is another compelling tribute to cultural diversity within society.\n\nMr. Pesce's architecture and design has been published, exhibited, and collected internationally and included in the permanent collections of museums around the world.\n\n\n\nFor 28 years, Mr. Pesce taught architectural design at the Institut National des Sciences Appliquées (INSA) (National Institute of Applied Sciences), Strasbourg, France; Domus Academy, Milan, Italy; City University of Hong Kong, China; Escola da Cidade, (AEAUSP), (Architectural School of São Paulo), Brazil; Carnegie Mellon, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio; and in New York, since 1980, at the Cooper Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2730382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2730382", "title": "Gakushūin", "text": "Gakushūin\n\nThe or Peers School (Gakushūin School Corporation), also known as Gakushūjo, is a Japanese educational institution in Tokyo, originally established to educate the children of Japan's nobility.\nGakushuin is composed of the Kindergarten, Elementary School, Middle School, High School, and University. \n\nThe Peers' School was founded in 1847 by Emperor Ninkō in Kyoto. Its purpose was to educate the children of the Imperial aristocracy (\"kuge\").\nPrior to the disestablishment of the Peerage in 1947, commoners had restricted access to Gakushuin, with limited slots only to the Elementary School and Middle School. In 1947, with the US mandated disestablishment of the Kazoku system, enrollment in Gakushuin was fully opened up to the general public. The Administration of the School was transferred to the Ministry of Education at this time. Previous to 1947, Gakushuin was administered by the Imperial Household Agency. \n\nEmperor Ninko had four maxims inscribed on the walls of the \"Gakushūin\" building, including\n\nThe school was moved to Tokyo in 1877. Its new purpose was to educate the children of the modern aristocracy. Members of the Imperial Family continue to study at Gakushūin.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn the novel \"Spring Snow\" by Yukio Mishima, set in the early 1910s, the characters Kiyoaki Matsugae and Shigekuni Honda attend the school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42051279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42051279", "title": "Higher School Certificate (Mauritius)", "text": "Higher School Certificate (Mauritius)\n\nThe Higher School Certificate is an academic qualification in Mauritius awarded upon the completion of Upper 6 Form, the final stage of secondary school. The qualification is awarded upon earning passing marks on the A-level exams administered by the Mauritius Examinations Syndicate, in conjunction with the University of Cambridge Local Examinations Syndicate of the Cambridge International Examinations board. \n\nThe traditional Higher School Certificate (HSC) is the main school-leaving qualification awarded by Mauritian secondary schools. Requirements include A Levels and AS Levels in subjects chosen by the student. \n\nSuccessful students may receive academic recognition and are eligible to compete for laureateship, a scholarship scheme offered by the Mauritian government for students pursuing higher education. \n\nThe Higher School Certificate Professional Qualification (HSC Pro) is an alternative school-leaving qualification with a modified curriculum and structure, which allows students to pursue both an academic curriculum and vocational training, to be prepared for tertiary studies as well as employment. The qualification will be introduced as a pilot in 2015.\n\nThere are certain unique features of this qualification that distinguish it from the traditional Higher School Certificate. One is the inclusion of the Cambridge International Technical in ICT, adapted to the local context, in place of an A Level. Another is replacement of the AS General Paper with a mandatory alternative, the AS Global Perspectives, which is designed to develop communication, analytical and research skills. Another is the Work Placement Component (WPC), a structured and supervised placement that provides practical work experience in the industry. \n\nThe structure for the qualification includes:\n\nThe alternative qualification is recognised by local and overseas universities, enabling students who successfully complete the qualification to seek admission in universities. HSC Pro students may not compete for laureateship, as can traditional HSC students, but may participate in alternative schemes provided by the Mauritian government for further studies as well as employment.\n\nTypically 3 to 5 primary subjects are chosen to study at AS-level, and at least 3 subjects are further studied to A2-level. Both the AS (Advanced Subsidiary) and A2 years must be completed for the full A-level qualification to be completed; an AS-level qualification may also be awarded after the first year.\n\nCambridge Higher School Certificate candidates may take the following subjects at AS-level: \n\n\nCambridge Higher School Certificate candidates may take the following subjects at A2-level: \n\n\nHigher School Certificate Professional Qualification (HSC Pro) students additionally take the following subjects: \n\nStudents who successfully earn the Higher School Certificate may then progress onto tertiary study. Students who are unsuccessful in obtaining the qualification may then transition from the academic stream to the vocational stream and progress onto vocational programmes of study. Students may also choose to obtain A Level qualifications at a later time.\n\n"}
{"id": "30109313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30109313", "title": "Independent Education System (Israel)", "text": "Independent Education System (Israel)\n\nThe Independent Education System of Israel ( - which is translated \"independent education\" and could be transliterated as \"Khinukh Atsmai\" or \"Chinuch Atzmai\") is an alternate school system run by and serving the needs of the Haredi (ultra-Orthodox Jewish) community of Israel. It was established in 1953 by a decision of the Moetzes Gedolei HaTorah (Council of Torah Sages of Agudath Yisrael in Israel) and implemented through the \"State Education law\". It was initially led by Rabbi Zalman Sorotzkin and is run by an umbrella center that operates numerous schools throughout the country.\n\nThe diverse nature of Israel’s society is accommodated within the framework of the Israeli education systems. Different sectors of the population attend different schools. Although parents are comforted by the fact that their children’s school may more or less reflect their basic worldview, this separation results in very little contact among the various segments of Israeli society. Schools are divided into five groups: State schools (\"mamlachti\"), attended by the majority of the pupils; State religious schools (\"mamlachti dati\"), which emphasize Jewish studies, tradition and observance; Independent religious schools (\"Chinuch Atzmai\") which focus almost entirely on Talmud Torah and offer very little in terms of secular subjects; Private schools which reflect the philosophies of specific groups of parents (Democratic Schools) or are based on a curriculum of a foreign country (e.g. The American School); and lastly, Arab schools, with instruction in Arabic and a focus on Arab history, religions and culture.\n\nThere are approximately 80,000 students currently enrolled in Chinuch Atzmai schools, which include Beis Yaakov schools for girls, Talmud Torah, Cheder and Yeshiva Ketana for boys. There is a strong emphasis on Jewish studies in these programs.\n\nThe schools are partially supported by the State; however, the Ministry of Education is not responsible for the hiring and firing of teachers or for the registration of pupils. Schools in the Chinuch Atzmai system are allocated 55% of the budget that regular state schools receive and are required to teach 55% of the Ministry of Education's curriculum. Chinuch Atzmai's funding has traditionally been supplemented by donations from outside Israel, particularly the United States. Rabbi Aharon Kotler, one of the movement's founders, was extremely instrumental in fundraising for the organization. Due to sharp cuts in state funding over recent years, the movement has had to redouble its efforts in order to keep schools from closing.\n\nThe center was a main focus of the controversial Court ruling against the Beit Yaakov school in Immanuel in summer 2010, when it was fined for not complying with the court's ruling.\n\n"}
{"id": "30608495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30608495", "title": "Intern Aware", "text": "Intern Aware\n\nIntern Aware is the United Kingdom national campaign for fair internships, founded in 2010. Working closely in cooperation with businesses, trade bodies and trade unions, they aim to help employers develop high quality internship schemes with recruitment based on merit, and payment that complies with employment law. They also work with interns to ensure they receive the pay they are potentially entitled to by law.\n\nThey believe that unpaid internships are exploitative, exclusive and unfair. By asking people to work without pay, employers exclude those with talent, ambition and drive who cannot afford to work for free. They campaign that employers and young people alike benefit from the best graduates getting the best jobs. They argue that paying interns a fair wage can ensure that this happens.\n\nMuch of Intern Aware’s argument focuses on how interns fit into the National Minimum Wage Act 1998.\n\nMain proposal\n\n• (Excluding existing exemptions) the UK Government should designate anyone who has undertaken a period of work experience for over four weeks to be a “worker” under the meaning of the National Minimum Wage (NMW) Act.\n\nOther proposals\n\n\nThe organisation started as a Facebook group named \"Interns Must Be Paid The Minimum Wage\". It has led campaigns focused on the non-payment of parliamentary interns. It also campaigned during the Labour Party's leadership election, securing the support of all five candidates and persuading Andy Burnham MP to demand that the BBC end unpaid work experience. The campaign has also drawn attention to the connection between increased graduate unemployment and unpaid interns.\n"}
{"id": "9677867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9677867", "title": "Jeffry H. Larson", "text": "Jeffry H. Larson\n\nJeffry H. Larson, Ph.D., LMFT, CFLE, is a Professor of Marriage and Family Therapy at Brigham Young University. \nHe is the author of \"Should We Stay Together? A Scientifically Proven Method for Evaluating Your Relationship and Improving its Chances for Long Term Success\" (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass, 2000) and the E-book entitled \"The Great Marriage Tune-Up Book: A Proven Program for Evaluating and Renewing Your Relationship\" (March 2004), among others.\n\nHe obtained his B.S. and M.S. degrees in Psychology from BYU and a Ph.D. in Marriage and Family Therapy from Texas Tech University. He is a licensed marriage and family therapist, and the former chair of the Utah State MFT Licensing Board. He is the former chairperson and professor of the Marriage and Family graduate program at BYU. He is the author of over 70 scholarly journal articles and book chapters. He was awarded the Distinguished Alumnus Award by Texas Tech University in 2001.\n\nPrior to joining the BYU faculty Larson was on the faculty of Montana State University.\n\nDr. Larson was married in 1972 to the former Dianna Jean Spear and is the father of 4 children, Geoffrey Larson, Dillon Larson, Tyler Larson (his favorite) and Hallie Larson. Larson is a Latter-day Saint.\n\n"}
{"id": "4847284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4847284", "title": "John Deere: American Farmer", "text": "John Deere: American Farmer\n\nJohn Deere: American Farmer is a farm construction and management simulation for Microsoft Windows featuring the John Deere license, developed by Gabriel Entertainment, published by Take 2 Interactive and Destineer Studios.\n\nThe goal of the game is to make a living by raising livestock such as beef cattle, dairy cows, and pigs, or by growing crops such as sunflowers, soybeans, wheat and corn. Players must contend with factors such as weather, market demand, employee skill.\n\nThere is a variety of John Deere equipment to choose from such as the 7820, 9520 and 5303 tractors with numerous attachments, and the 9660 combine with a hydraflex and corn headers. There are also smaller vehicles such as the John Deere Gator and ATVs. There is a built-in map editor that enables players to create their own map.\n\nIn 2006 a sequel, \"John Deere: American Farmer Deluxe\" was released and received positive reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "23066587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23066587", "title": "John Forsell", "text": "John Forsell\n\nCarl Johan Jacob Forsell (6 November 1868 – 30 May 1941), known as John Forsell, was a prominent Swedish baritone, opera administrator and teacher of voice. He was the leading baritone of the Royal Swedish Opera (RSO) from 1896–1918, and thereafter sang roles periodically with the company until his last stage performance in 1938. From 1923-1939 he served as the director of the RSO. He also sang leading roles as a guest artist with opera companies internationally, drawing particular acclaim for his portrayal of the title character in Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\".\n\nIn 1899, Forsell was awarded the Litteris et Artibus and, a decade later, he was named a Hovsångare. The Royal Swedish Academy of Music awarded him membership in 1906.\n\nBorn in Stockholm, Forsell was the son of Carl August Forsell, a sea captain, and Axeline Forsell (née Åberg). Before his singing career, he served in the Swedish Army; becoming a second lieutenant in 1890 and lieutenant in 1896. In 1897 he requested and was granted an honorable dismissal from the army, but continue to serve as a member of the Uppland Regiment reserves through 1901.\n\nWhile serving in the army, he pursued voice studies with Julius Günther at the Royal College of Music, Stockholm from 1892-1894. After graduating from college he studied singing further in Paris in 1895-1896 and later in Stockholm with Hedvig Willman and Signe Hebbe.\n\nForsell made his operatic debut at the Royal Swedish Opera, Stockholm, in 1896 as Figaro in \"The Barber of Seville\". He would remain that opera house's premier baritone through 1918, and thereafter appeared only periodically at that theatre up until his retirement from the stage in 1938. He sang in several world premieres with the company, including Wilhelm Stenhammar's \"Tirfing\" (1898) and Andreas Hallén's \"Valdemarskatten\" (1899, the title role of Valdemar IV of Denmark). He also appeared in the Swedish premieres of \"Eugene Onegin\" (1903, title role), \"Tosca\" (1904, Scarpia), and \"Salome\" (1909, Jochanaan).\n\nForsell also established an international career. From 1902-1906 he sang regularly at the Royal Danish Theatre in Copenhagen. In 1909-1910 he appeared at the Metropolitan Opera in New York City, performing such parts as Tonio in \"Pagliacci\", Amfortas in \"Parsifal\", Figaro in \"The Barber of Seville\", Telramund in \"Lohengrin\", Germont in \"La traviata\" and Yeletsky in the United States premiere of Tchaikovsky's \"The Queen of Spades\".\n\nThe title role in Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\" was probably his most famous interpretation. He sang the part numerous times, including during the 1909 season at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, London, and at the 1930 Salzburg Festival. Other major opera houses in which Forsell sang the Don and various leading parts were the Berlin State Opera, the Dutch National Opera, and the Vienna State Opera. In 1915 he portrayed the role of the Foreigner/Francesco del Giocondo in the world premiere of Max von Schillings's \"Mona Lisa\" at the Staatsoper Stuttgart.\n\nForsell become the Director (Intendant) of the Royal Swedish Opera at the start of the 1923-1924 season, and performed less frequently on stage as a consequence. His voice, however, remained in fine condition. His final opera performance was on his 70th birthday when he sang the role of Count Almaviva in Mozart's \"The Marriage of Figaro\" at the RSO. He retired from his director's position in May 1939 and died in Stockholm two years later. His wife, soprano Gurli Carlström (married 1901), pre-deceased him in 1935. Their son, Björn Forsell, was also a successful opera singer.\n\nIn addition to his administrative duties at Stockholm's opera house during the 1920s and '30s, Forsell taught voice as a professor of singing at the Royal College of Music, Stockholm. His pupils included Joel Berglund, Jussi Björling, Magna Lykseth-Scherfven, Aksel Schiøtz, Hjördis Schymberg, Set Svanholm, and Inez Wassner.\n\nForsell's gramophone legacy consists of several batches of acoustic 78-rpm discs of arias and songs (made initially by the Gramophone & Typewriter Company prior to World War I) and some subsequent electrical recordings of live stage performances. Many of these recordings are available on modern CD reissues, most notably a four-disc anthology produced in 1994 by Caprice Records (CAP 21586). When discussing Forsell's impressive legacy on disc, the British audio restoration engineer Keith Hardwick has this to say: \"His voice was a dark, warm, expressive baritone, very well produced and equalized.\"\n"}
{"id": "37841413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37841413", "title": "John W. Berry", "text": "John W. Berry\n\nJohn W. Berry is a Professor Emeritus of Psychology at Queen's University. He can be seen as one of the main establishers of the field of acculturation psychology. Berry has been described as a person that \"has led, if not defined, contemporary approaches to acculturation.\"\n\nHe attended Sir George Williams University in Montreal from which he obtained a B.A. in 1963. He then undertook graduate work at the University of Edinburgh from which he obtained a PhD in 1966. He was a faculty member for most of his career at Queen's University from which he is now an emeritus professor. He has held visiting appointments at many institutions including the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study and the National Research University Higher School of Economics, in Russia.\n\nOne of his well-known theories is the four-fold model of acculturation strategies, involving the strategies of Assimilation, Separation, Integration and Marginalization.\n\nAccording to Google Scholar, his work has been cited over 70,000 times. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57188165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57188165", "title": "Kalikrishna Mitra", "text": "Kalikrishna Mitra\n\nKalikrishna Mitra ( 1822 - 2 August 1891) was a Bengali philanthropist, educator and writer. He established the first non-government girls’ school in India.\nMitra was born to Shibnarayan Mitra in Kolkata, British India. He passed from Hare School and entered into the Presidency College but due to poor economic condition he had to left study and started living in his maternal house at Barasat (presently North 24 Parganas district). His elder brother was a notable doctor, Nabinkrishna Mitra.\nMitra involved with progressive education movement and several social reformative actions in Bengal. In 1847 he established a private girls school in Barasat with the help of his brother Nabinkrishna and educationist Peary Charan Sarkar. This was the first school for the girls of aristocratic Hindu families established by any Indian. Initially it was started with only two girls. \"Kuntibala\", daughter of Nabinkrishna is one of them. Although such activities was strongly opposed by Hindu Zaminders and the then conservative society but Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar and John Elliot Drinkwater Bethune supported Mitra's enormous effort for women education in Bengal. Latter the school was renamed as Kalikrishna Girls' High School. Even Bethune got inspiration for establishment Bethune School in 1949, when he went there for inspection as President of the Council of Education. Mitra organised an agricultural firm of 150 \"Bighas\" for scientific farming, plantation and research in Barasat. He brought modern equipment from England for this purpose. He also contributed to spread out for Homeopathy medication.\n\nMitra had knowledge in English literature, philosophy, yoga, history and science. He published various articles in Bengali and English magazines. Mitra wrote few books namely:\n"}
{"id": "9692750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9692750", "title": "Knox Martin", "text": "Knox Martin\n\nKnox Martin (born February 12, 1923) is an American painter, sculptor and muralist.\n\nBorn in Barranquilla, Colombia, he studied at the Art Students League of New York from 1946 till 1950. He is one of the leading members of the New York School of artists and writers. He lives and works in New York City.\n\nKnox Martin is the oldest son of Lieutenant William Knox Martin, a Virginia-born early aviation pioneer and flyer, and his wife Isabel Vieco, who were married in the Canal Zone in Panama in 1921. Knox Martin Sr., painter, poet, early test pilot, was the first man to fly over the Andes mountains. Six years after his marriage, Martin Sr. was fatally injured in an automobile accident in Watertown, New York.His widow Isabel relocated with her three young sons from Salem, Virginia to New York City.\n\nAfter serving in the United States Coast Guard during World War II, Knox Martin attended the Art Students League of New York on the G.I. Bill from 1946 to 1950, where he studied with Harry Sternberg, Vaclav Vytlacil, Will Barnet, and Morris Kantor. In 1954, Martin's friend Franz Kline placed a painting of his in the Stable Gallery Annual. Charles Egan of the Charles Egan Gallery saw Martin's painting at the Stable Gallery and asked him to show his work in a one-man show for the tenth anniversary of the Egan Gallery.\n\nKnox Martin is best known for his repertory of signs and symbols that allude to nature and, in particular, to the female form. Flatly and freely painted in brilliant colors, his works have often been executed on a grand scale, as in the outdoor wall painting, \"Woman with bicycle\", at West Houston and MacDougal Streets in Manhattan. He mostly creates painting, sculpture and wall paintings using media such as acrylic, collage, fresco, ink drawing (pen and ink), mixed media/multimedia, and oil.\n\nOne of his wall paintings in New York City is the twelve-story mural \"Venus\". Painted in 1970, it is located on the south side of Bayview Correctional Facility at 19th Street and the West Side Highway. \n\n\"Traditionally the goddess of love and fertility, Venus represents woman, erotic and supple, but it also conveys Knox Martin's love affair with New York. Venus is his love poem to the city where he has always lived, a place that is part of his being. The feminine, curvilinear shapes of the image are in direct contrast with the straight forms that intersect the composition. The overwhelming size of this enormous mural only intensifies the experience of female shapes, the linear aspects of the painted composition, and of the surrounding architecture. In an era when art was reaching out to the masses with pop culture, this huge mural was Knox Martin's way of touching a public that would never venture into an art gallery.\" \n\nKnox Martin's work is included in the collections of Whitney Museum of American Art, Museum of Modern Art, Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, Art Students League of New York, Brooklyn Museum of Art, National Academy of Design, National Arts Club, New York University, Addison Gallery of American Art, Albright-Knox Art Gallery, Art Institute of Chicago, Art Museum of Southeast Texas, Baltimore Museum of Art, Berkeley Art Museum, Blanton Museum of Art, Boca Raton Museum of Art, Chrysler Museum of Art, Corcoran Gallery of Art, Dallas Museum of Art, Denver Art Museum, Hand Art Center, Herbert F. Johnson Museum of Art, Heckscher Museum of Art, Hofstra University Museum, Indianapolis Museum of Art, Ithaca Museum, Lowe Art Museum, Montclair Art Museum, Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Newark Museum, Oklahoma City Museum of Art, Portland Art Museum, Provincetown Art Association and Museum, Reading Public Museum, Southern Alleghenies Museum of Art, Springfield Art Museum, The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, Toledo Museum of Art, University of Kentucky Art Museum, Weatherspoon Art Museum, Wellesley College, William Benton Museum of Art, Israel Museum, Ludwig Museum in Budapest, and the Bibliothèque Nationale.\n\nIn 2002 Martin was named to the National Academy of Design.\n\nIn the fall of 2010 (September 15-November 13) Martin had a one-man show of his Black and White Paintings at Woodward Gallery in New York City.\n\nOctober 6, 2012 to April 6, 2013, Martin had a solo exhibition of recent paintings, SHE, at the Sam & Adele Golden Gallery at Golden Artist Colors in New Berlin, New York.\n\nSeptember 13, 2013 to October 26, 2013: Knox Martin Exhibition SHE at LGTripp Gallery in Philadelphia\n\nOn November 14, 2016, France conferred the insignia of the Legion of Honour on Martin for his contribution to the liberation of France during World War II.\n\nKnox Martin gives master classes at the Art Students League of New York. He taught at Yale Graduate School of Art, first as visiting critic in art, invited by Jack Tworkov, and then as Professor of Art. He has also taught at New York University, the University of Minnesota, and the International School of Painting, Drawing and Sculpture in Umbria, Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35669827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35669827", "title": "Leadership &amp; Management Wales", "text": "Leadership &amp; Management Wales\n\nLeadership & Management wales is an organisation funded by the Welsh Government and the European Social Fund to encourage the development of leadership and management skills among businesses in Wales.\n\nIt was formed in 2009 in response to a report entitled \"Skills That Work for Wales\", and is run by a consortium, led by Cardiff Business School at Cardiff University, and also including Glyndwr University, Aberystwyth University, and Tattum Guest Associates. Its main office is in Cardiff, with others in Wrexham and Aberystwyth.\n\nLMW states on its website that it was “formed to support businesses in developing their leadership and management development (LMD) skills, enabling them to increase efficiency and help grow the economy in Wales”.\n\nIt is part of the Welsh Government’s Workforce Development Programme and Enhancing Leadership and Management Skills (ELMS) programme. LMW runs events, conducts and commissions research, and provides online resources and information on funding and training courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "38674095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38674095", "title": "Learey Technical College", "text": "Learey Technical College\n\nLearey Technical College (formally Fred D. Learey Technical College) is a public vocational school in Tampa, Florida. It is part of the Hillsborough County Public Schools system. It offers education in Emergency Medical Technician and Fire Fighter programs. Learey is located in a highly urbanized area, at 5410 North 20th Street, Tampa, Florida 33610, across the street from the much larger Erwin Technical Center. Learey has existed since June 1993.\n\nThe Learey building houses classes and the administrative offices. This is a two-story building, which measures by . The entrance area, on the northeast corner, is designed to be an octagon. Learey only has about twelve parking spaces, so most students must park on nearby streets or in the Erwin Technical Center lots. Learey conducts some classes at Tampa's MacDill Air Force Base's New Education Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "29056109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29056109", "title": "Lest We Forget Project", "text": "Lest We Forget Project\n\nThe Lest We Forget Project is a project by Canadian Schools in cooperation with Library and Archives Canada and the Canadian War Museum. In this project, students attend Library & Archives to study files of World War I and World War II soldiers. This helps students understand the contributions made for them, by the military.\n\nThe program began in 2001 after Blake Seward, a history teacher from Smiths Falls, Ontario decided to teach his class about World War I through researching soldiers, nurses and other participants in the war.\n\nIn January 2010, Library and Archives Canada announced cutbacks to the program. Through a joint effort with the Royal Canadian Legion and the War Museum, the program still exists for the use of students. Much of the information was made available online for the ease of research for students.\n\n"}
{"id": "1005923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1005923", "title": "List of academic databases and search engines", "text": "List of academic databases and search engines\n\nThis page contains a representative list of major databases and search engines useful in an academic setting for finding and accessing articles in academic journals, institutional repositories, archives, or other collections of scientific and other articles.\nAs the distinction between a database and a search engine is unclear for these complex document retrieval systems, see:\n\n\nNote that \"free\" or \"subscription\" can refer both to the availability of the\ndatabase or of the journal articles included. This has been indicated as precisely as possible in the lists below.\n\n"}
{"id": "16687383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16687383", "title": "List of architecture schools in Germany", "text": "List of architecture schools in Germany\n\nThis is a list of architecture schools in Germany.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9351710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9351710", "title": "Manager (Gaelic games)", "text": "Manager (Gaelic games)\n\nIn Gaelic games, a manager or (in Irish) bainisteoir is involved in the direction and instruction of the on-field operations of a team. The role entails the application of sport tactics and strategies during the game itself, and usually entails substitution of players and other such actions as needed. At games, the manager may sometimes wear a bib with the word \"manager\" or \"bainisteoir\" adorning it. Many managers were former players themselves, and are assisted in coaching the team by a group of selectors (in Irish \"roghnóirí\").\n\nThe term \"manager\" emerged in the 1970s owing to the influence of the BBC programme \"Match of the Day\". A portion of the east coast of Ireland, including Dublin, was able to receive the channel and programme, which showed coverage of association football, where \"manager\" was the common term used for the coach or supervisor of the team. This later played a role in changing the management structure of Gaelic Athletic Association teams as the Dublin football revival of the 1970s evolved. Throughout the history of the GAA clubs and teams and were often influenced by selection panels. By the early 1970s, the GAA began to take note of the merits of having an individual soccer-style manager accompanied by assistants. In 1973 the Dublin County Board appointed Kevin Heffernan to lead their football team. It was the first time in the GAA's history that a manager with substantial powers was appointed. Other counties later followed suit by having a single manager supported by a smaller selection panel. While the GAA's current management and coaching model was influenced by other sports (like soccer), several differences with those sports do remain. \n\nThe Gaelic Athletic Association publishes and maintains a set of guidelines for the appointment of managers. Managers of county teams can be appointed from within that county - though it is not uncommon for managers to be \"brought in\" from elsewhere.\n\nGAA rules also allow for a manager (in Irish \"bainisteoir\") to be supported by a single assistant manager (in Irish \"maor foirne\") during games. Under GAA rules, an assistant manager to a Gaelic football or hurling team may also be a member of the team's panel of selectors, but may not be one of the team's panel of players.\n\nIn inter-county hurling, the manager with the most championship wins is Kilkenny's Brian Cody, with 15 Provincial Championship and 11 All-Ireland Championship titles. Tommy Maher, also of Kilkenny, has the second-most All-Ireland hurling championship wins, with 7 titles.\n\nIn football, Mick O'Dwyer managed 4 different inter-county teams, including leading Kerry to 7 All-Ireland Championship titles. Jim Gavin is the second-most successful inter-county manager, with 5 All-Ireland titles for Dublin - including several back-to-back wins.\n"}
{"id": "1006389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1006389", "title": "Marshall Scholarship", "text": "Marshall Scholarship\n\nThe Marshall Scholarship is a postgraduate scholarship for \n\"intellectually distinguished young Americans [and] their country's future leaders\" to study at any university in the United Kingdom. Created by the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1953 as a living gift to the United States in recognition of the generosity of Secretary of State George C. Marshall and the Marshall Plan in the wake of World War II, the goal of the scholarship was to strengthen the Special Relationship between the two countries for \"the good of mankind in this turbulent world.\" The scholarships are awarded by the Marshall Aid Commemoration Commission and are largely funded by the British Government.\n\nWith nearly 1,000 applicants in recent years, it is among the most selective graduate scholarship for Americans, with an acceptance rate around 4%, and as low as 3.2% in 2015. It is widely considered one of the most prestigious scholarships for U.S. citizens, and along with the Fulbright Scholarship it is the only broadly available scholarship available to Americans to study at any University in the United Kingdom. The program was also the first major co-educational British graduate scholarship; one-third of the inaugural cohort in 1954 were women.\n\nCurrently, there are over 1,900 Marshall Scholar alumni. To date, two of the nine current Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States are alumni of the program (Neil Gorsuch and Stephen Breyer), while others have been prominent CEOs (LinkedIn, Dolby Labs), members of the United States Congress; members of the Presidential Cabinet of the United States; state Governors; the Deans of Yale Law School, Stanford Law School, the Harvard Kennedy School and Harvard College; presidents of seven universities or colleges, including Duke University, Wellesley College, the Cooper Union, and Caltech. They have also been leaders in many academic and professional disciplines, including one Nobel Laureate, four Pulitzer Prize–winning authors, two winners of the John Bates Clark Medal for the best American economist under the age of 40, twelve MacArthur Genius Grant awardees, and the President of the National Bureau of Economic Research, the Managing Editors of TIME and CNN and the International News Editor of The New York Times, NASA's youngest Astronaut, two Oscar nominees, one winner of the National Medal of Technology and Innovation, and one awardee of the Distinguished Flying Cross for service during the Iraq War.\n\nIn a letter to the first class of Marshall Scholars, George Marshall echoed his own words in initially presenting his ideas for European recovery by saying,A close accord between our two countries is essential to the good of mankind in this turbulent world of today, and that is not possible without an intimate understanding of each other. These scholarships point the way to the continuation and growth of the understanding which found its necessity in the terrible struggle of the war years.\n\nThe published objectives of the Marshall Scholarships are outlined as follows:\n\nPlans to establish \"Marshall Scholarships\" as a living memorial to Secretary of State George Marshall were announced by British Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden on July 31, 1952, and were enacted by the Parliament of the United Kingdom when the Marshall Aid Commemoration Act was passed in 1953. The act's passage was backed by \"leaders of all political hues,\" with British Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin describing the scholarship's establishment as \"a great opportunity for Europe.\"\n\nWhile the authors of the proposal initially considered partnering with the Rhodes Scholarship, and even considered using the same selection committees, this idea was eventually disregarded because its proponents strongly believed the scholarships should be available to women, and to married men under the age of 28 (at the time, the Rhodes Scholarship was limited to single men under the age of 25). The creation of a separate scholarship was a cause of great concern to Lord Godfrey Elton, the head of the Rhodes Trust at the time, who worried that the ability to study at other universities would draw potential applicants. He urged the Foreign Office to create a ‘reverse exchange’ for British students in the United States instead. The Rhodes Scholarship became open to women beginning in 1977 following the passage of the British Sex Discrimination Act in 1975.\n\nIn 1959, when Parliament doubled the number of scholars from 12 to 24, British politician Philip Noel-Baker argued that \"Marshall, more than perhaps any other man, destroyed isolation in the United States and built up the conception that only collective security through international institutions can save the world...I think the world has never seen an act of greater national generosity than Marshall aid and the other aid which the United States has given to other continents throughout the last 15 years.\" By 1960, six years after their establishment, the scholarship was \"on its way to becoming as well-known and respected as the fellow phrase, \"Rhodes [Scholarship],\" and both scholarships attracted roughly 500 to 600 applicants.\n\nAs part of the celebrations for the 50th Anniversary of the Marshall Scholarships in 2003, Marshall Medals were awarded to a group of distinguished Americans in recognition of their contributions to US-UK relations, including Justice Stephen Breyer (1959 Marshall Scholar), Dr. Ray Dolby (1957 Marshall Scholar), Thomas L. Friedman (1975 Marshall Scholar), and former President of Duke University Nannerl Keohane (1961 Marshall Scholar).\n\nThe number of scholars was increased to 30 in 1973, 40 in 1991, and between 2004-2007 \"up to 44\". In 2010, the Commission decided to offer a limited number of one year awards. In 2016, the Foreign Office announced that 40 scholars had been selected, a 25% increase over the originally planned 32, with Foreign Office Minister Alok Sharma calling it a demonstration of how \"resolute Britain is in its commitment to the special relationship.\"\n\nIn the early years of the Marshall Scholarship, it was common for new Scholars to travel together to the UK on an ocean liner, but now Scholars are usually flown together to London from Washington, D.C. following a welcome program with top US and UK government and diplomatic officials.\n\nProspective applicants must first be endorsed by their universities to apply. The selection process is then coordinated through the eight major British embassy/consulate regions in the United States (Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C.). Selection committees in each region, consisting of former Scholars and other distinguished individuals, receive university-endorsed applications (including personal statements and essays) which are used to select a short list of candidates for interviews. Each committee then interviews each of the regional finalists prior to making the final decisions on the year's awards. In 2014, 16% of university-endorsed applicants received an interview.\n\nAlthough most of the responsibility for selecting the recipients is in the hands of the committees, a few formal guidelines have been outlined in the official selection criteria, most notably:\n\nAs future leaders, with a lasting understanding of British society, Marshall Scholars will strengthen the enduring relationship between the British and American peoples, their governments and their institutions. Marshall Scholars are talented, independent and wide-ranging in their interests, and their time as Scholars will enhance their intellectual and personal growth. Their direct engagement with Britain through its best academic programmes will contribute to their ultimate personal success. In appointing Scholars the selectors will look for distinction of intellect and character as evidenced both by their scholastic attainments and by their other activities and achievements. Preference will be given to candidates who display a potential to make a significant contribution to their own society. Selectors will also look for strong motivation and seriousness of purpose, including the presentation of a specific and realistic academic programme.\n\nBetween 900 and 1000 students are typically endorsed to apply for the Marshall Scholarship annually, with 979 applying in 2014 (compared to 857 for the U.S. Rhodes Scholarship, and 924 for the UK Fulbright Program), of whom 3.4% were ultimately selected. In 2015 and 2016, 3.2% and 3.5% of university-endorsed applicants to the Marshall Scholarship were elected.\n\nThe Marshall selection committees place a strong emphasis on academic achievement and potential, and as such the application requires a minimum GPA of 3.7. Successful applicants, however, typically have much higher GPAs: more than half of applicants have perfect academic records. Winners from Harvard University have had average GPAs of 3.92, and Stanford University recommends that applicants have a GPA of 3.8 or above. In comparison, winners of the Rhodes Scholarship from Harvard have had an average GPA of 3.8.\n\nBetween 1954 and 2013, 239 of 1818 scholars received their undergraduate degrees from Harvard University (13%), 126 from Princeton, 108 from Yale, 83 from Stanford, and 60 from MIT. The most successful public university is the US Military Academy at West Point, with 34 scholars, followed by the University of California at Berkeley, with 28 scholars. Of the 548 scholars elected between 2000 and 2013, 30 were from Harvard and Stanford (5%), 26 from Princeton, 21 from Yale, and 17 from MIT, the US Military Academy at West Point, and the US Naval Academy.\n\nOxford, Cambridge, LSE, UCL, Edinburgh, KCL and Imperial always dominate the list of preferred university selected by both the endorsed and actually interviewed Marshall Scholarship applicants throughout the years 2005 to 2016. With SOAS and LSHTM sometimes also being highly preferred.\n\nThese 9 institutions almost always tend to form the dominant block of the destination of eventually selected Scholars. That said, Scholars have attended a wide range of universities throughout the UK, many of which are ranked among the best in the world.\n\nIn 2015, there were 69 Marshall Scholars in residence at British universities including those who were selected for the classes of 2012, 2013, and 2014. During this time, there were 27 Scholars at University of Oxford, 17 at the University of London (including 5 each at the London School of Economics and King's College London, and 1 at University College London), 13 at the University of Cambridge, and 4 at Imperial College London. Of these scholars, 46 were studying Arts and Social Sciences while 23 were studying Science, Engineering or Mathematics.\n\nThe Marshall Scholarship is more selective than the Churchill Scholarship, Harry S. Truman Scholarship, Gates Cambridge Scholarship, UK Fulbright Program and is approximately as selective as the American Rhodes Scholarship and the Mitchell Scholarship.\n\nIn structure and selection criteria, the Scholarship is most similar to the American Rhodes Scholarship and Fulbright Program. Like the Fulbright available for study in the United Kingdom, Marshall Scholars can study at any university in the UK. However, under the Fulbright, applicants compete in separate pools for 43 specified universities of varying selectivity, except for two awards tenable at any university.\n\nIn structure, the Marshall Scholarship is more flexible than the Rhodes Scholarship, in that Marshall Scholars can study at any British university, and can also attend a different university each year during a Scholar's tenure. In addition, a limited number of one-year Marshall scholarships are available. Unlike Rhodes Scholars, Marshall Scholars must be American citizens (in comparison, approximately 80 Rhodes Scholarships are given annually to citizens of over a dozen countries). In process, the Marshall Scholarship is approximately as selective as the Rhodes and Mitchell Scholarships; the Marshall is awarded to 3.4% of university-endorsed applicants in 2014, compared to 3.7% for the Rhodes in 2014 and 3.2% for the Mitchell Scholarship in 2017. In addition, the selection processes differ in the difficulty with which it is to secure a final round interview: in 2014, 15.9% of university-endorsed applicants for the Marshall Scholarship received a finalist interview, compared to 24% of Rhodes applicants and 5.4% of Mitchell applicants.\n\nWhile the selection committees continues to emphasize academic potential, over time \"the Marshall program has become more Rhodes-like, stating that it is seeking persons who also demonstrate leadership potential.\" In general, \"nearly all Rhodes Scholars are willing to admit that, by and large, the Marshalls are superior if one looks just at grade point averages and other signs of academic achievement,\" but this is a point of both \"admiration\" and \"disdain.\" Walter Isaacson, describing Rhodes Scholars as \"fairly intelligent, well-rounded, honest people who could be counted on to be upstanding citizens,\" has said that \"the real geniuses...were the Marshall Scholars,\" perhaps because of the expectation that Rhodes Scholars be \"all-rounders.\" In practice, the Marshall and Rhodes have engaged an \"informal rivalry,\" but in career trajectory after the completion of their fellowships, \"the line between [the fellowships] is not so evident,\" with scholars pursuing similar fields with similar success. In general, a higher percentage of Marshall Scholars \"go on to careers in academe and research, whereas Rhodes Scholars are more evenly scattered through the full range of professional occupations.\"\n\nThe Association of Marshall Scholars (AMS) was formed in 1988 as a charitable organization to\n\n\nThe organization has been led by several notable board and advisory members, including Kathleen Sullivan, Andrew Klaber, Tianhui Michael Li, Reid Hoffman, Nannerl Keohane, Peter Orszag, and Harold Koh, Roger Tsien, Daniel Yergin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "705962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705962", "title": "Mary Wigman", "text": "Mary Wigman\n\nMary Wigman (born Karoline Sophie Marie Wiegmann; 13 November 1886 – 18 September 1973) was a German dancer, choreographer, notable as the pioneer of expressionist dance, dance therapy, and movement training without pointe shoes. She is considered one of the most important figures in the history of modern dance. She became one of the most iconic figures of Weimar German culture and her work was hailed for bringing the deepest of existential experiences to the stage.\n\nKaroline Sophie Marie Wiegmann was born in Hanover, Germany. She came to dance comparatively late after seeing three students of Émile Jaques-Dalcroze, who aimed to approach music through movement using three equally-important elements: solfège, improvisation and his own system of movements, eurhythmics. Wigman enrolled in the Jaques-Dalcroze's school in Dresden in 1911. Another key early experience was a solo concert by Grete Wiesenthal.\n\nThe Jaques-Dalcroze school was far too academically minded, and it overly confined her expression. The school's practice made dance secondary to music, so Wigman decided to take her interests elsewhere. In 1913, she was introduced to Rudolf von Laban and Courtney Neilson in Ascona, Switzerland. She enrolled in one of Rudolf von Laban's summer courses and was instructed in his technique. Following their lead, she worked upon a technique based in contrasts of movement; expansion and contraction, pulling and pushing. She continued with the Laban school through the Switzerland summer sessions and the Munich winter sessions until 1919 During these years and through the First World War, she worked as Laban's assistant in Leipzig. \n\nAfter her departure from the Laban school, she retreated to the mountains of Switzerland to develop her expressionist style. She named her new dance style \"New German Dance,\" using the word new to express the break from traditional classical ballet. She wanted her dance to be an expression of human's desires, passions, and inspirations. She was deeply interested in the relationship between humans and the cosmos, and she wanted to give life to the individual forces surrounding humans. She wanted to create a technique that did not need codification, but rather, it arose out of visual interpretations of the desires of human being. In her mind, any movement could be considered dance if it is expressing a true feeling. Her technique and choreography often consisted of \"sliding, bouncing, vibrating, falling/dropping, and tensions.\" \n\nIn 1918, she suffered a nervous breakdown. Two years later, in 1920, she was offered the post of ballet mistress at the Dresden State Opera, but, after taking up residence in a hotel in Dresden and beginning to teach dance classes while awaiting her appointment, she learned that the position had been awarded to someone else.\n\nIn 1919, Wigman performed her first solo concert in a professional setting in Berlin, Hanover, and Bremen. These concerts were not well received by the public, but she continued to perform. Later that year, she received high praise from audiences in Hamburg, Zurich, and Dresden, and her name became known. By the mid-1920s, her name was associated in Germany with \"Ausdruckstanz,\" which translates to Expressionist Dance. \n\nIn 1920-21, Wigman started her own dance school, which became known as \"Dresden Central School\" or simply \"Mary Wigman-Schule\", a centre of new, expressionist dance. This school became the center of German modern dance. The rivalry and competition between her new school and the old schools of dance in Dresden emerged, especially with the Palucca School of Dance. \nHer students and collaborators from Europe included Yvonne Georgi, Hanya Holm, Harald Kreutzberg, Gret Palucca, Margarethe Wallmann, Inge Weiss, and Meta Vidmar who, in 1930, established the first school of modern dance in Slovenia. She formed a dance troupe as well, which toured the world beginning in 1923.\n\nMary Wigman toured the United States in 1930 with her company of dancers, as well as 1931 and 1933. A school was founded by her disciples in New York City in 1931. Her choreography inspired communist dance troupes in the 1930s in New York City Her work in the United States is credited to her protegee Hanya Holm, and then to Hanya's students Alwin Nikolais and Joanne Woodbury. Another student and protegee of Wigman's, Margret Dietz, taught in America from 1953-72. During this time, her style was characterized by critics as \"tense, introspective, and somber,\" yet there was always an element of \"radiance found even in her darkest compositions.\" Other Dresden schools were founded in other areas of Germany, and Hanya Holm even set up one in the United States. Her style of movement and training was even utilized in German public schools. She was officially honored for her accomplishments in the early 1930s by the German government. \n\nThe \"Mary Wigman-Schule\" existed from 1920 until 1942. However, when World War II began, the Nazis in Germany viewed her as a leftist, and they considered her dances to be degenerate. The Nazis put an end to her school, but allowed her to teach in Leipzig during the war. The \"Mary Wigman-Schule\" continued to operate under Nazi rule in World War II, following that she obey the rule of government and fire all the Jewish dancers from her schools in Germany.\n\nWhat had been the Mary Wigman-Schule was started again after the war by Dore Hoyer. Hoyer and the school created a \"Dances for Käthe Kollwitz\" which they performed in Dresden in 1946.\n\nWigman continued to teach in Leipzig until 1949. From 1950 until her death in 1973, she taught at her newly opened school in West Berlin, which became a place where modern dancers from all over the world could unite and share ideas. Her last public performance took place in 1953. \n\nWigman died on 18 September 1973 in Berlin, aged 86.\n\nWigman gave her first public performance in Munich in February 1914, performing two of her own dances, including one called \"Lento\" and the first version of \"Hexentanz\" (Witch Dance), which later became one of her most important works.\n\nWhile recovering from her nervous breakdown, in 1918, Wigman wrote the choreography for her first group composition, \"Die sieben Tänze des Lebens\" (The Seven Dances of Life), which premiered several year later, in 1921. After that her career and influence began in earnest.\n\nIn 1925 the Italian financier Riccardo Gualino invited Wigman to Turin to perform in his private theater and in his newly opened \"Teatro di Torino\".\nShe had several years' success on the concert stage.\n\nWigman's dances were often accompanied by world music and non-Western instrumentation, such as fifes and primarily percussion, bells, including the gongs and drums from India, Thailand, Africa, and China, contrasted with silence. In later years, she used composers' talents to create music to accompany her choreography, and many choreographers began to use this tactic. \n\nShe would often employ masks in her pieces, influenced again by non-western/tribal dance. She did not use typical costumes associated with ballet. The subject matters included in her pieces were heavy, such as the death and desperation that was surrounding the war. However, she did not choreograph to represent the happenings of the war; she danced to outwardly convey the feelings that people were experiencing in this hard time. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52760380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52760380", "title": "New South Wales Education Standards Authority", "text": "New South Wales Education Standards Authority\n\nThe NSW Education Standards Authority (NESA) is the state government education board in New South Wales, Australia. It was formed on 1 January 2017 replacing the Board of Studies, Teaching and Educational Standards.\n\nNESA sets and monitors quality teaching, learning, assessment and school standards. This includes responsibility, across NSW public, Catholic and independent schools, for:\n\nNESA is also the NSW test administration authority for NAPLAN.\n\nNESA is responsible for awarding the secondary school credentials Record of School Achievement and Higher School Certificate.\n"}
{"id": "1245860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1245860", "title": "New World Information and Communication Order", "text": "New World Information and Communication Order\n\nThe New World Information and Communication Order (NWICO or NWIO), also known as the MacBride Commission, is a term that was coined in a debate over media representations of the developing world in UNESCO in the late 1970s and early 1980s. The term was widely used by the MacBride Commission, a UNESCO panel chaired by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Sean MacBride, which was charged with creation of a set of recommendations to make global media representation more equitable. The MacBride Commission produced a report titled \"Many Voices, One World\", which outlined the main philosophical points of the New World Information Communication Order.\n\nThe fundamental issues of imbalances in global communication had been discussed for some time. The American media scholar Wilbur Schramm noted in 1964 that the flow of news among nations is thin, that much attention is given to developed countries and little to less-developed ones, that important events are ignored and reality is distorted. From a more radical perspective, Herbert Schiller observed in 1969 that developing countries had little meaningful input into decisions about radio frequency allocations for satellites at a key meeting in Geneva in 1962. Schiller pointed out that many satellites had military applications. Intelsat which was set up for international co-operation in satellite communication, was also dominated by the United States. In the 1970s these and other issues were taken up by the Non-Aligned Movement and debated within the United Nations and UNESCO.\n\nNWICO grew out of the New International Economic Order of 1974. From 1976-1978, the New World Information and Communication Order was generally called the shorter New World Information Order or the New International Information Order.\n\nThe start of this discussion is the New World Information and Communication Order (NWICO) as associated with the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) starting from the early 1970s.\n\nMass media concerns began with the meeting of non-aligned nations in Algiers, 1973; again in Tunis 1976, and later in 1976 at the New Delhi Ministerial Conference of Non-Aligned Nations.\n\nThe 'new order' plan was textually formulated by Tunisia's Information Minister Mustapha Masmoudi. Masmoudi submitted working paper No. 31 to the MacBride Commission. These proposals of 1978 were titled the 'Mass Media Declaration.' The MacBride Commission at the time was a 16-member body created by UNESCO to study communication issues.\n\nAmong those involved in the movement were the Latin American Institute for the Study of Transnationals (ILET). One of its co-founders, Juan Somavia was a member of the MacBride Commission. Another important voice was Mustapha Masmoudi, the Information Minister for Tunisia. In a Canadian radio program in 1983, Tom McPhail describes how the issues were pressed within UNESCO in the mid-1970s when the United States withheld funding to punish the organization for excluding Israel from a regional group of UNESCO. Some OPEC countries and a few socialist countries made up the amount of money and were able to get senior positions within UNESCO. NWICO issues were then advanced at an important meeting in 1976 held in Costa Rica.\n\nThe only woman member of the Commission was Betty Zimmerman, representing Canada because of the illness of Marshall McLuhan, who died in 1980. The movement was kept alive through the 1980s by meetings of the MacBride Round Table on Communication, even though by then the leadership of UNESCO distanced itself from its ideas.\n\nThe UNESCO Convention on Cultural Diversity of 2005 puts into effect some of the goals of NWICO, especially with regard to the unbalanced global flow of mass media. However, this convention was not supported by the United States, and it does not appear to be as robust as World Trade Organization agreements that support global trade in mass media and information.\n\nA wide range of issues were raised as part of NWICO discussions. Some of these involved long-standing issues of media coverage of the developing world and unbalanced flows of media influence. But other issues involved new technologies with important military and commercial uses. The developing world was likely to be marginalized by satellite and computer technologies. The issues included:\n\n\nThe United States was hostile to NWICO. According to some analysts, the United States saw these issues simply as barriers to the free flow of communication and to the interests of American media corporations. It disagreed with the MacBride report at points where it questioned the role of the private sector in communications. It viewed the NWICO as dangerous to freedom of the press by ultimately putting an organization run by governments at the head of controlling global media, potentially allowing for censorship on a large scale. From another perspective, the MacBride Commission recommendations requiring the licensing of journalists amounted to prior censorship and ran directly counter to basic US law on the freedom of expression.\n\nThere were also accusations of corruption at the highest level of UNESCO leadership in Paris. The US eventually withdrew its membership in UNESCO (as did the United Kingdom and Singapore) at the end of 1984. The matter was complicated by debates within UNESCO about Israel's archaeological work in the city of Jerusalem, and about the Apartheid regime in South Africa. The United States rejoined in 2003.\n\nThe debate on the NWICO that started in the 1970s reflected criticism about non-equitable access to information and media imperialism. The NWICO saw the United Kingdom and the United States back out of UNESCO until 1997 for the UK and 2003 for the US. In 1990-2000, a switch occurred globally, carried by the Internet that contributed to bring more equity to the available content. This was supported by the extension of media powers to developing countries such as Mexico, Korea, Kenya and Nigeria; by the adoption of protectionist measures in regards to the free market by western countries like Canada and France; and with the rise of satellite broadcasting as a transnational means for non-western countries. \n\nThis tendency has reached its peak in the 1991 Windhoek Declaration. The Windhoek Declaration for the Development of a Free, Independent and Pluralistic Press is a statement of press freedom principles by African newspaper journalists. African diplomats in Paris (UNESCO), Geneva (ECOSOC) and New York’s (UN General Assembly) commitment has been crucial to the success of the Windhoek process. UNESCO endorsed the Windhoek Declaration and United Nations General Assembly recognized the 3 May, date of the Declaration, as “World Press Freedom Day”. The Windhoek Declaration has had other significant impacts in the media field. UNESCO adopted the Windhoek framework concerning media development, characterizing it by freedom, pluralism and independence. \n\nThe Windhoek Declaration is implemented through the Media Development Indicators (MDIs) framework developed by the International Programme for the Development of Communication Intergovernmental Council in 2006. Resonating with the NWICO, the MDIs help assessing the priority areas for media development that are the promotion of freedom of expression and media pluralism, the development of community media and of human resources. \n\nAs a result of the “Many Voices, One World” 1980 report UNESCO’s General Conference launched the International Programme for the Development of Communication (IPDC) the same year in Belgrade. The Programme was adopted by 39 Member States and aimed at strengthening the development of mass media in developing countries. Its mandate since 2003 is “... to contribute to sustainable development, democracy and good governance by fostering universal access to and distribution of information and knowledge by strengthening the capacities of the developing countries and countries in transition in the field of electronic media and the printed press.” \n\nThreats on journalists are one of the major issues blocking media development. Since 2008, UNESCO Member States submit information on the status of the judicial inquiries conducted on each of the journalists killings condemned by the Organization. This information is included in a public report submitted every two years to the IPDC Council by the Director-General and is basis to the Programme's follow-up to killings of journalists. \n\nTechnological developments have direct effects on access to information and on privacy. Access to information is the ability for an individual to seek, receive and impart information effectively. According to Guy Berger, “access to digital means of communication, even within the limits established by platform owners, is unprecedented”. There has been a signiﬁcant increase in access to the Internet, which reached just over three billion users in 2014, amounting to about 42 per cent of the world’s population. Nevertheless, issues remain such as the digital divide, the gender divide and the security argument. A digital divide is an economic and social inequality with regard to access to, use of, or impact of information and communication technologies (ICT). Social barriers such as illiteracy and lack of digital empowerment have created stark inequalities between men and women in navigating the tools used for access to information: it’s the gender divide. With the evolution of the digital age, application of freedom of speech and its corollaries (freedom of information, access to information) becomes more controversial as new means of communication and restrictions arise including government control or commercial methods putting personal information to danger. \n\nThe increasing access to and reliance on digital media to receive and produce information have increased the possibilities for States and private sector companies to track individuals’ behaviors, opinions and networks. States have increasingly adopted laws and policies to legalize monitoring of communication, justifying these practices with the need to defend their own citizens and national interests. In parts of Europe, new anti-terrorism laws have enabled a greater degree of government surveillance and an increase in the ability of intelligence authorities to access citizens’ data. While legality is a precondition for legitimate limitations of human rights, the issue is also whether a given law is aligned to other criteria for justification such as necessity, proportionality and legitimate purpose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8529810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8529810", "title": "Open-source curriculum", "text": "Open-source curriculum\n\nAn open-source curriculum (OSC) is an online instructional resource that can be freely used, distributed and modified. OSC is based on the open-source practice of creating products or software that opens up access to source materials or codes. Applied to education, this process invites feedback and participation from developers, educators, government officials, students and parents and empowers them to exchange ideas, improve best practices and create world-class curricula. These \"development\" communities can form ad-hoc, within the same subject area or around a common student need, and allow for a variety of editing and workflow structures.\n\nOSC repositories such as Wikiversity, Curriki – Global Learning & Education Community, MIT OpenCourseWare and Connexions are one way in which the concept of open-source curriculum is being explored. With these online repositories, a curriculum framework for a particular course is created by an instructional designer or author in conjunction with content experts. Learning objectives are clearly identified, and learning activities and instructional sequences and assessments are developed and offered to support the attainment of the objectives. However, all users (from students to educators) are empowered to add, delete, and modify the learning activities, resources and generally contribute to the learning environment. In short, each user contributes to the repository and is able to select curricula based on individual interests.\n\nThe Open Content Curriculum Project was initiated with MediaWiki software in 2005, and offers a standards-based K-12 curriculum that is collaboratively edited, contains teacher- and student-created resources, assessment rubrics, lesson plans, and instructional resources. All 10,500 pages of content, and 4,240 file uploads are Creative Commons licensed, and the system is used daily by the Bering Strait School District, an Alaska school district. The project welcomes use and active contributions by outside teachers, students and other interested parties. There are currently 2,500 registered users in the database.\nThe Free Technology Academy is a joint initiative of the Free Knowledge Institute and several European universities to provide master-level education on Free Software, Open Standards and related subjects. All FTA course books are openly published under copyleft licenses. Moreover, the FTA partners together with several other institutions have started a Taskforce for the collaborative design of an International Master Programme in Free Software.\n\nThe Saylor Foundation is a non-profit organization that produces new open-source educational content and curates existing open resources to support college-level courses. Its course outlines are licensed under a CC-BY license, making those outlines open-source curricula. Saylor has created nearly 241 college courses using open educational resources, making Saylor.org one of the largest currently-available collections of free courses on the web.\n\n"}
{"id": "38206522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38206522", "title": "Pamela Harrison (composer)", "text": "Pamela Harrison (composer)\n\nPamela Harrison (28 November 1915 – 28 August 1990) was an English pianist, music teacher and composer.\n\nPamela Harrison was born in Orpington, England, and studied with Gordon Jacob and Arthur Benjamin at the Royal College of Music in London. During World War II, she worked as a school teacher.\n\nHarrison's work was influenced by composers including E.J. Moeran, Arnold Bax and John Ireland, and French music. She made her debut as a composer with \"String Quartet\" in 1944 at the National Gallery concerts. She went on to produce a variety of music, including chamber, orchestral and vocal music, with settings including Baudelaire, Herrick, Dowson and Edward Thomas. Her work for small orchestra, \"A Suite for Timothy\", was composed for the first birthday of her son.\n\nIn 1990 Harrison died in a car accident in Firle, East Sussex.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSelected recordings include: \n\nPersonal Website: http://www.pamelaharrisoncomposer.co.uk\n"}
{"id": "42043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42043", "title": "Project MKUltra", "text": "Project MKUltra\n\nProject MKUltra, also called the CIA mind control program, is the code name given to a program of experiments on human subjects that were designed and undertaken by the United States Central Intelligence Agency—and which were, at times, illegal. Experiments on humans were intended to identify and develop drugs and procedures to be used in interrogations in order to weaken the individual and force confessions through mind control. The project was organized through the Office of Scientific Intelligence of the CIA and coordinated with the U.S. Army Biological Warfare Laboratories.\n\nThe operation was officially sanctioned in 1953, was reduced in scope in 1964, further curtailed in 1967, and recorded to be halted in 1973. There remains controversy over whether this operation ever ended, or continues presently. The program engaged in many illegal activities, including the use of U.S. and Canadian citizens as its unwitting test subjects, which led to controversy regarding its legitimacy. MKUltra used numerous methods to manipulate people's mental states and alter brain functions, including the surreptitious administration of drugs (especially LSD) and other chemicals, hypnosis, sensory deprivation, isolation, verbal and sexual abuse (including the sexual abuse of children), and other forms of torture.\n\nThe scope of Project MKUltra was broad with research undertaken at 80 institutions, including colleges and universities, hospitals, prisons, and pharmaceutical companies. The CIA operated through these institutions using front organizations, although sometimes top officials at these institutions were aware of the CIA's involvement.\n\nProject MKUltra was first brought to public attention in 1975 by the Church Committee of the United States Congress and Gerald Ford's United States President's Commission on CIA activities within the United States. Investigative efforts were hampered by the fact that CIA Director Richard Helms ordered all MKUltra files to be destroyed in 1973; the Church Committee and Rockefeller Commission investigations relied on the sworn testimony of direct participants and on the relatively small number of documents that survived Helms's destruction order. In 1977, a Freedom of Information Act request uncovered a cache of 20,000 documents relating to project MKUltra which led to Senate hearings later that year. Some surviving information regarding MKUltra was declassified in July 2001.\n\nThe project's intentionally obscure CIA cryptonym is made up of the digraph \"MK\", meaning that the project was sponsored by the agency's Technical Services Staff, followed by the word Ultra which had previously been used to designate the most secret classification of World War II intelligence. Other related cryptonyms include Project MKNAOMI and Project MKDELTA.\n\nThe project was headed by Sidney Gottlieb but began on the order of CIA director Allen Welsh Dulles on April 13, 1953. Its aim was to develop mind-controlling drugs for use against the Soviet bloc in response to alleged Soviet, Chinese, and North Korean use of mind control techniques on U.S. prisoners of war during the Korean War. The CIA wanted to use similar methods on their own captives, and they were interested in being able to manipulate foreign leaders with such techniques and invented several schemes to drug Fidel Castro. They often conducted experiments without the subjects' knowledge or consent. In some cases, academic researchers were funded through grants from CIA front organizations but were unaware that the CIA was using their work for these purposes.\n\nThe project attempted to produce a perfect truth drug for interrogating suspected Soviet spies during the Cold War, and to explore other possibilities of mind control. Subproject 54 was another MKUltra effort and was the Navy's top secret \"Perfect Concussion\" program, which was supposed to use sub-aural frequency blasts to erase memory. However, the program was never carried out.\n\nMost MKUltra records were destroyed in 1973 by order of CIA director Richard Helms, so it has been difficult for investigators to gain a complete understanding of more than 150 funded research sub-projects sponsored by MKUltra and related CIA programs.\n\nThe project began during a period of what Rupert Cornwell described as \"paranoia\" at the CIA, when the U.S. had lost its nuclear monopoly and fear of Communism was at its height. CIA counter-intelligence chief James Jesus Angleton believed that a mole had penetrated the organization at the highest levels. The agency poured millions of dollars into studies examining methods of influencing and controlling the mind and of enhancing their ability to extract information from resistant subjects during interrogation. Some historians assert that one goal of MKUltra and related CIA projects was to create a \"Manchurian Candidate\" subject through mind control techniques. Alfred McCoy has claimed that the CIA attempted to focus media attention on these sorts of \"ridiculous\" programs so that the public would not look at the primary goal of the research, which was developing effective methods of interrogation.\n\nOne 1955 MKUltra document gives an indication of the size and range of the effort. It refers to the study of an assortment of mind-altering substances described as follows:\n\nThe Church Committee report in 1976 found that, in the MKDELTA program, \"Drugs were used primarily as an aid to interrogations, but MKULTRA/MKDELTA materials were also used for harassment, discrediting, or disabling purposes.\"\n\nIn 1964, MKSEARCH was the name given to the continuation of the MKULTRA program. The MKSEARCH program was divided into two projects dubbed MKOFTEN/CHICKWIT. Funding for MKSEARCH commenced in 1965, and ended in 1971. The project was a joint project between The U.S. Army Chemical Corps and the Central Intelligence Agency's Office of Research and Development to find new offensive-use agents with a focus on incapacitating agents. The purpose of the project was to develop, test, and evaluate capabilities in the covert use of biological, chemical, and radioactive material systems and techniques for producing predictable human behavioral and/or physiological changes in support of highly sensitive operational requirements.\n\nBy March 1971 over 26,000 potential agents had been acquired for future screening. The CIA were interested in bird migration patterns for CBW research under MK/ULTRA where, a Subproject 139 designated \"Bird Disease Studies\" at Penn State.\n\nMKOFTEN was to deal with testing and toxicological, transmissivity and behavioral effects of drugs in animals and, ultimately, humans.\n\nMKCHICKWIT was concerned with acquiring information on new drug developments in Europe and the Orient, and with acquiring samples.\n\nCIA documents suggest that they investigated \"chemical, biological, and radiological\" methods of mind control as part of MKUltra. They spent an estimated $10 million or more, roughly $87.5 million adjusted for inflation.\n\nEarly CIA efforts focused on LSD-25, which later came to dominate many of MKUltra's programs. The CIA wanted to know if they could make Soviet spies defect against their will and whether the Soviets could do the same to the CIA's own operatives.\n\nOnce Project MKUltra got underway in April 1953, experiments included administering LSD to mental patients, prisoners, drug addicts, and sex workers—\"people who could not fight back,\" as one agency officer put it. In one case, they administered LSD to a mental patient in Kentucky for 174 days. They also administered LSD to CIA employees, military personnel, doctors, other government agents, and members of the general public to study their reactions. LSD and other drugs were often administered without the subject's knowledge or informed consent, a violation of the Nuremberg Code the U.S. had agreed to follow after World War II. The aim of this was to find drugs which would bring out deep confessions or wipe a subject's mind clean and program him or her as \"a robot agent.\"\n\nIn Operation Midnight Climax, the CIA set up several brothels within agency safehouses in San Francisco, California, to obtain a selection of men who would be too embarrassed to talk about the events. The men were dosed with LSD, the brothels were equipped with one-way mirrors, and the sessions were filmed for later viewing and study. In other experiments where people were given LSD without their knowledge, they were interrogated under bright lights with doctors in the background taking notes. They told subjects they would extend their \"trips\" if they refused to reveal their secrets. The people under this interrogation were CIA employees, U.S. military personnel, and agents suspected of working for the other side in the Cold War. Long-term debilitation and several deaths resulted from this. Heroin addicts were bribed into taking LSD with offers of more heroin.\n\nAt the invitation of Stanford psychology graduate student Vik Lovell, an acquaintance of Richard Alpert and Allen Ginsberg, Ken Kesey volunteered to take part in what turned out to be a CIA-financed study under the aegis of MKULTRA, at the Menlo Park Veterans' Hospital where he worked as a night aide. The project studied the effects of psychoactive drugs, particularly LSD, psilocybin, mescaline, cocaine, aMT, and DMT on people.\n\nThe Office of Security used LSD in interrogations but Dr. Sidney Gottlieb, the chemist who directed MKUltra, had other ideas; he thought it could be used in covert operations. Since its effects were temporary, he believed one could give it to high-ranking officials and in this way affect the course of important meetings, speeches etc. Since he realized there was a difference in testing the drug in a laboratory and using it in clandestine operations, he initiated a series of experiments where LSD was given to people in \"normal\" settings without warning. At first, everyone in Technical Services tried it; a typical experiment involved two people in a room where they observed each other for hours and took notes. As the experimentation progressed, a point arrived where outsiders were drugged with no explanation whatsoever and surprise acid trips became something of an occupational hazard among CIA operatives. Adverse reactions often occurred, such as an operative who received the drug in his morning coffee, became psychotic and ran across Washington, seeing a monster in every car passing him. The experiments continued even after Dr. Frank Olson, an Army scientist who had not taken LSD before, went into deep depression after a surprise trip and later fell from a thirteenth story window.\n\nSome subjects' participation was consensual, and in these cases they appeared to be singled out for even more extreme experiments. In one case, seven volunteers in Kentucky were given LSD for seventy-seven consecutive days.\n\nMKUltra's researchers later dismissed LSD as too unpredictable in its results. They gave up on the notion LSD was \"the secret that was going to unlock the universe,\" but it still had a place in the cloak-and-dagger arsenal. However, by 1962 the CIA and the army developed a series of superhallucinogens such as the highly touted BZ, which was thought to hold greater promise as a mind control weapon. This resulted in the withdrawal of support by many academics and private researchers, and LSD research became less of a priority altogether.\n\nAnother technique investigated was the intravenous administration of a barbiturate into one arm and an amphetamine into the other. The barbiturates were released into the person first, and as soon as the person began to fall asleep, the amphetamines were released. The person would begin babbling incoherently, and it was sometimes possible to ask questions and get useful answers.\n\nOther experiments involved heroin, morphine, temazepam (used under code name MKSEARCH), mescaline, psilocybin, scopolamine, cannabis, alcohol, and sodium pentothal.\n\nDeclassified MKUltra documents indicate they studied hypnosis in the early 1950s. Experimental goals included: the creation of \"hypnotically induced anxieties,\" \"hypnotically increasing ability to learn and recall complex written matter,\" studying hypnosis and polygraph examinations, \"hypnotically increasing ability to observe and recall complex arrangements of physical objects,\" and studying \"relationship of personality to susceptibility to hypnosis.\" They conducted experiments with drug induced hypnosis and with anterograde and retrograde amnesia while under the influence of such drugs.\n\nThey exported experiments to Canada when the CIA recruited British psychiatrist Donald Ewen Cameron, creator of the \"psychic driving\" concept, which the CIA found interesting. Cameron had been hoping to correct schizophrenia by erasing existing memories and reprogramming the psyche. He commuted from Albany, New York, to Montreal every week to work at the Allan Memorial Institute of McGill University and was paid $69,000 from 1957 to 1964 (which would be $603,580 in today's currency, adjusting for inflation) to carry MKUltra experiments there, the Montreal experiments. These research funds were sent to Dr. Cameron by a CIA front organization, the Society for the Investigation of Human Ecology, and as shown in internal CIA documents, Cameron did not know the money came from the CIA. In addition to LSD, Cameron also experimented with various paralytic drugs as well as electroconvulsive therapy at thirty to forty times the normal power. His \"driving\" experiments consisted of putting subjects into drug-induced comas for weeks at a time (up to three months in one case) while playing tape loops of noise or simple repetitive statements. His experiments were often carried on patients who entered the institute for minor problems such as anxiety disorders and postpartum depression, many of whom suffered permanent effects from his actions. His treatments resulted in victims' incontinence, amnesia, forgetting how to talk, forgetting their parents, and thinking their interrogators were their parents. Several of the children who Cameron experimented on were sexually abused, in at least one case by several men. One of the children claimed that she was filmed numerous times performing sexual acts with high-ranking federal government officials, in a scheme she said was set up by Cameron and other MKULTRA researchers, to blackmail the officials to ensure further funding for the experiments.\n\nHis work was inspired and paralleled by the British psychiatrist William Sargant at St Thomas' Hospital, London, and Belmont Hospital, Surrey, who was also involved in the Intelligence Services and who experimented on his patients without their consent, causing similar long-term damage. In the 1980s, several of Cameron's former patients sued the CIA for damages, which the Canadian news program \"The Fifth Estate\" documented. Their experiences and lawsuit was made into a 1998 television miniseries called \"The Sleep Room\".\n\nDuring this era, Cameron became known worldwide as the first chairman of the World Psychiatric Association as well as president of the American and Canadian psychiatric associations. Cameron was also a member of the Nuremberg medical tribunal in 1946–47.\n\nNaomi Klein argues in her book \"The Shock Doctrine\" Cameron's research and his contribution to the MKUltra project was not about mind control and brainwashing, but about designing \"a scientifically based system for extracting information from 'resistant sources.' In other words, torture.\" Alfred W. McCoy writes \"Stripped of its bizarre excesses, Dr. Cameron's experiments, building upon Donald O. Hebb's earlier breakthrough, laid the scientific foundation for the CIA's two-stage psychological torture method,\" which refers to first creating a state of disorientation in the subject, and then second creating a situation of \"self-inflicted\" discomfort in which the disoriented subject can alleviate their pain by capitulating.\n\nIn 1973, amid a government-wide panic caused by Watergate, CIA Director Richard Helms ordered all MKUltra files destroyed. Pursuant to this order, most CIA documents regarding the project were destroyed, making a full investigation of MKUltra impossible. A cache of some 20,000 documents survived Helms' purge, as they had been incorrectly stored in a financial records building and were discovered following a FOIA request in 1977. These documents were fully investigated during the Senate Hearings of 1977.\n\nIn December 1974, \"The New York Times\" alleged that the CIA had conducted illegal domestic activities, including experiments on U.S. citizens, during the 1960s. That report prompted investigations by the U.S. Congress, in the form of the Church Committee, and by a commission known as the Rockefeller Commission that looked into the illegal domestic activities of the CIA, the FBI, and intelligence-related agencies of the military.\n\nIn the summer of 1975, congressional Church Committee reports and the presidential Rockefeller Commission report revealed to the public for the first time that the CIA and the Department of Defense had conducted experiments on both unwitting and cognizant human subjects as part of an extensive program to find out how to influence and control human behavior through the use of psychoactive drugs such as LSD and mescaline and other chemical, biological, and psychological means. They also revealed that at least one subject, Frank Olson had died after administration of LSD. Much of what the Church Committee and the Rockefeller Commission learned about MKUltra was contained in a report, prepared by the Inspector General's office in 1963, that had survived the destruction of records ordered in 1973. However, it contained little detail. Sidney Gottlieb, who had retired from the CIA two years previously, was interviewed by the committee but claimed to have very little recollection of the activities of MKUltra.\n\nThe congressional committee investigating the CIA research, chaired by Senator Frank Church, concluded that \"[p]rior consent was obviously not obtained from any of the subjects\". The committee noted that the \"experiments sponsored by these researchers [...] call into question the decision by the agencies not to fix guidelines for experiments.\"\n\nFollowing the recommendations of the Church Committee, President Gerald Ford in 1976 issued the first Executive Order on Intelligence Activities which, among other things, prohibited \"experimentation with drugs on human subjects, except with the informed consent, in writing and witnessed by a disinterested party, of each such human subject\" and in accordance with the guidelines issued by the National Commission. Subsequent orders by Presidents Carter and Reagan expanded the directive to apply to any human experimentation.\nIn 1977, during a hearing held by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, to look further into MKUltra, Admiral Stansfield Turner, then Director of Central Intelligence, revealed that the CIA had found a set of records, consisting of about 20,000 pages, that had survived the 1973 destruction orders because they had been incorrectly stored at a records center not usually used for such documents. These files dealt with the financing of MKUltra projects and contained few project details, but much more was learned from them than from the Inspector General's 1963 report.\n\nOn the Senate floor in 1977, Senator Ted Kennedy said:\n\nThe Deputy Director of the CIA revealed that over thirty universities and institutions were involved in an \"extensive testing and experimentation\" program which included covert drug tests on unwitting citizens \"at all social levels, high and low, native Americans and foreign.\" Several of these tests involved the administration of LSD to \"unwitting subjects in social situations.\n\nAt least one death, the result of the defenestration of Dr. Frank Olson, was attributed to Olson's being subjected, unaware, to such experimentation, nine days before his death. The CIA itself subsequently acknowledged that these tests had little scientific rationale. The agents conducting the monitoring were not qualified scientific observers.\n\nIn Canada, the issue took much longer to surface, becoming widely known in 1984 on a CBC news show, \"The Fifth Estate\". It was learned that not only had the CIA funded Dr. Cameron's efforts, but also that the Canadian government was fully aware of this, and had later provided another $500,000 in funding to continue the experiments. This revelation largely derailed efforts by the victims to sue the CIA as their U.S. counterparts had, and the Canadian government eventually settled out of court for $100,000 to each of the 127 victims. Dr. Cameron died on September 8, 1967 after suffering a heart attack while he and his son were mountain climbing. None of Cameron's personal records of his involvement with MKUltra survived, since his family destroyed them after his death.\n\nThe U.S. General Accounting Office issued a report on September 28, 1994, which stated that between 1940 and 1974, DOD and other national security agencies studied thousands of human subjects in tests and experiments involving hazardous substances.\n\nThe quote from the study:\n\nWorking with the CIA, the Department of Defense gave hallucinogenic drugs to thousands of \"volunteer\" soldiers in the 1950s and 1960s. In addition to LSD, the Army also tested quinuclidinyl benzilate, a hallucinogen code-named BZ. (Note 37) Many of these tests were conducted under the so-called MKULTRA program, established to counter perceived Soviet and Chinese advances in brainwashing techniques. Between 1953 and 1964, the program consisted of 149 projects involving drug testing and other studies on unwitting human subjects\n\nGiven the CIA's purposeful destruction of most records, its failure to follow informed consent protocols with thousands of participants, the uncontrolled nature of the experiments, and the lack of follow-up data, the full impact of MKUltra experiments, including deaths, may never be known.\n\nSeveral known deaths have been associated with Project MKUltra, most notably that of Frank Olson. Olson, a United States Army biochemist and biological weapons researcher, was given LSD without his knowledge or consent in November, 1953, as part of a CIA experiment and committed suicide by jumping out of a window a week later. A CIA doctor assigned to monitor Olson claimed to have been asleep in another bed in a New York City hotel room when Olson exited the window and fell thirteen stories to his death. In 1953, Olson's death was described as a suicide that had occurred during a severe psychotic episode. The CIA's own internal investigation concluded that the head of MKUltra, CIA chemist Sidney Gottlieb, had conducted the LSD experiment with Olson's prior knowledge, although neither Olson nor the other men taking part in the experiment were informed as to the exact nature of the drug until some 20 minutes after its ingestion. The report further suggested that Gottlieb was nonetheless due a reprimand, as he had failed to take into account Olson's already-diagnosed suicidal tendencies, which might have been exacerbated by the LSD.\n\nThe Olson family disputes the official version of events. They maintain that Frank Olson was murdered because, especially in the aftermath of his LSD experience, he had become a security risk who might divulge state secrets associated with highly classified CIA programs, about many of which he had direct personal knowledge. A few days before his death, Frank Olson quit his position as acting chief of the Special Operations Division at Detrick, Maryland (later Fort Detrick) because of a severe moral crisis concerning the nature of his biological weapons research. Among Olson's concerns were the development of assassination materials used by the CIA, the CIA's use of biological warfare materials in covert operations, experimentation with biological weapons in populated areas, collaboration with former Nazi scientists under Operation Paperclip, LSD mind-control research, and the use of psychoactive drugs during \"terminal\" interrogations under a program code-named Project ARTICHOKE. Later forensic evidence conflicted with the official version of events; when Olson's body was exhumed in 1994, cranial injuries indicated that Olson had been knocked unconscious before he exited the window. The medical examiner termed Olson's death a \"homicide\". In 1975, Olson's family received a $750,000 settlement from the U.S. government and formal apologies from President Gerald Ford and CIA Director William Colby, though their apologies were limited to informed consent issues concerning Olson's ingestion of LSD. On 28 November 2012, the Olson family filed suit against the U.S. federal government for the wrongful death of Frank Olson.\n\nA 2010 book by H. P. Albarelli Jr. alleged that the 1951 Pont-Saint-Esprit mass poisoning was part of MKDELTA, that Olson was involved in that event, and that he was eventually murdered by the CIA. However, academic sources attribute the incident to ergot poisoning through a local bakery.\n\nThe revelations about the CIA and the Army prompted a number of subjects or their survivors to file lawsuits against the federal government for conducting experiments without informed consent. Although the government aggressively, and sometimes successfully, sought to avoid legal liability, several plaintiffs did receive compensation through court order, out-of-court settlement, or acts of Congress. Frank Olson's family received $750,000 by a special act of Congress, and both President Ford and CIA director William Colby met with Olson's family to apologize publicly.\n\nPreviously, the CIA and the Army had actively and successfully sought to withhold incriminating information, even as they secretly provided compensation to the families. One subject of Army drug experimentation, James Stanley, an Army sergeant, brought an important, albeit unsuccessful, suit. The government argued that Stanley was barred from suing under a legal doctrine—known as the Feres doctrine, after a 1950 Supreme Court case, \"Feres v. United States\"—that prohibits members of the Armed Forces from suing the government for any harms that were inflicted \"incident to service.\"\n\nIn 1987, the Supreme Court affirmed this defense in a 5–4 decision that dismissed Stanley's case: \"United States v. Stanley\". The majority argued that \"a test for liability that depends on the extent to which particular suits would call into question military discipline and decision making would itself require judicial inquiry into, and hence intrusion upon, military matters.\" In dissent, Justice William Brennan argued that the need to preserve military discipline should not protect the government from liability and punishment for serious violations of constitutional rights:\n\nThe medical trials at Nuremberg in 1947 deeply impressed upon the world that experimentation with unknowing human subjects is morally and legally unacceptable. The United States Military Tribunal established the Nuremberg Code as a standard against which to judge German scientists who experimented with human subjects... . [I]n defiance of this principle, military intelligence officials ... began surreptitiously testing chemical and biological materials, including LSD.\n\nJustice Sandra Day O'Connor, writing a separate dissent, stated:\n\nNo judicially crafted rule should insulate from liability the involuntary and unknowing human experimentation alleged to have occurred in this case. Indeed, as Justice Brennan observes, the United States played an instrumental role in the criminal prosecution of Nazi officials who experimented with human subjects during the Second World War, and the standards that the Nuremberg Military Tribunals developed to judge the behavior of the defendants stated that the 'voluntary consent of the human subject is absolutely essential ... to satisfy moral, ethical, and legal concepts.' If this principle is violated, the very least that society can do is to see that the victims are compensated, as best they can be, by the perpetrators.\n\nIn another lawsuit, Wayne Ritchie, a former United States Marshal, after hearing about the project's existence in 1990, alleged the CIA laced his food or drink with LSD at a 1957 Christmas party which resulted in his attempting to commit a robbery at a bar and his subsequent arrest. While the government admitted it was, at that time, drugging people without their consent, U.S. District Judge Marilyn Hall Patel found Ritchie could not prove he was one of the victims of MKUltra or that LSD caused his robbery attempt and dismissed the case in 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAt his retirement in 1972, Gottlieb dismissed his entire effort for the CIA's MKUltra program as useless. The CIA insists that MKUltra-type experiments have been abandoned, although investigative journalist Elizabeth Nickson (whose mother had been a subject) claims that they continue today under a different set of acronyms. Victor Marchetti, who had held several positions at the CIA before resigning in 1969, stated in 1992 that the CIA routinely conducted disinformation campaigns and that CIA mind control research continued. He called the claim that the program had been abandoned a cover story.\n\nMKUltra plays a part in many conspiracy theories due to its nature and the destruction of most records. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21073228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21073228", "title": "Psychometric software", "text": "Psychometric software\n\nPsychometric software is software that is used for psychometric analysis of data from tests, questionnaires, or inventories reflecting latent psychoeducational variables. While some psychometric analyses can be performed with standard statistical software like SPSS, most analyses require specialized tools.\n\nThere exist many free tools developed by researchers and educators. Important websites for free psychometric software include:\n\n\nClassical test theory is an approach to psychometric analysis that has weaker assumptions than item response theory and is more applicable to smaller sample sizes.\n\nCITAS (Classical Item and Test Analysis Spreadsheet) is a free Excel workbook designed to provide scoring and statistical analysis of classroom tests. Item responses (ABCD) and keys are typed or pasted into the workbook, and the output automatically populates; unlike some other programs, CITAS does not require any \"running\" or experience in psychometric analysis, making it accessible to school teachers and professors.\n\njMetrik is free and open source software for conducting a comprehensive psychometric analysis. It was developed by J. Patrick Meyer at the University of Virginia. Current methods include classical item analysis, differential item functioning (DIF) analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, item response theory, IRT equating, and nonparametric item response theory. The item analysis includes proportion, point biserial, and biserial statistics for all response options. Reliability coefficients include Cronbach's alpha, Guttman's lambda, the Feldt-Gilmer Coefficient, the Feldt-Brennan coefficient, decision consistency indices, the conditional standard error of measurement, and reliability if item deleted. The DIF analysis is based on nonparametric item characteristic curves and the Mantel-Haenszel procedure. DIF effect sizes and ETS DIF classifications are included in the output. Confirmatory factor analysis is limited to the common factor model for congeneric, tau-equivalent, and parallel measures. Fit statistics are reported along with factor loadings and error variances. IRT methods include the Rasch, partial credit, and rating scale models. IRT equating methods include mean/mean, mean/sigma, Haebara, and Stocking-Lord procedures.\n\njMetrik also include basic descriptive statistics and a graphics facility that produces bar charts, pie chart, histograms, kernel density estimates, and line plots.\n\njMetrik is a pure Java application that runs on 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows, Mac, and Linux operating systems. jMetrik requires Java 1.6 on the host computer.\n\nIteman is a commercial program specifically designed for classical test analysis, producing rich text (RTF) reports with graphics, narratives, and embedded tables. It calculates the proportion and point biserial of each item, as well as high/low subgroup proportions, and detailed graphics of item performance. It also calculates typical descriptive statistics, including the mean, standard deviation, reliability, and standard error of measurement, for each domain and the overall tests. It is only available from Assessment Systems Corporation.\n\nLertap (Laboratory of Educational Research Test Analysis Program) is a comprehensive software package for classical test analysis developed for use with Microsoft Excel. It includes test, item, and option statistics, classification consistency and mastery test analysis, procedures for cheating detection, and extensive graphics (e.g., trace lines for item options, conditional standard errors of measurement, scree plots, boxplots of group differences, histograms, scatterplots).\n\nDIF, differential item functioning, is supported in the Excel 2007, Excel 2010, Excel 2013, and Excel 2016 versions of Lertap. Mantel-Haenszel methods are used; graphs of results are provided.\n\nUsers of IRT, item response theory, may make use of four special options: one will produce the data and item control files required by Xcalibre; another sets up an ASCII file for Bilog MG; a third prepares data for processing with SAS, and will write suitable lines of SAS code for use with SAS IRT modules; a fourth interfaces with the Excel version of an R package called \"RIRT\", allowing users to calibrate items without leaving Excel.\n\nSeveral sample datasets for use with Lertap and/or other item and test analysis programs are available; these involve both cognitive tests, and affective (or rating) scales. Technical papers related to the application of Lertap are also available.\n\nLertap was developed by Larry Nelson at Curtin University. A free one-year license is available for students. More information is available at www.lertap.com.\n\nTAP (the Test Analysis Program) is a free program for basic classical analysis developed by Gordon Brooks at Ohio University.\n\nViSta-CITA (Classical Item and Test Analysis) is a module included in the Visual Statistics System (ViSta) that focuses on graphical-oriented methods applied to psychometric analysis. It was developed by Ruben Ledesma, J. Gabriel Molina, Pedro M. Valero-Mora, and Forrest W. Young.\n\nR package. A number of routines for personality, psychometrics and experimental psychology. Functions are primarily for scale construction using factor analysis, cluster analysis and reliability analysis, although others provide basic descriptive statistics. Item Response Theory is done using factor analysis of tetrachoric and polychoric correlations. Functions for simulating particular item and test structures are included. Several functions serve as a useful front end for structural equation modeling. Graphical displays of path diagrams, factor analysis and structural equation models are created using basic graphics. Some of the functions are written to support a book on psychometrics as well as publications in personality research. For more information, see the personality-project.org/r webpage.\n\nItem response theory (IRT) is a psychometric approach which assumes that the probability of a certain response is a direct function of an underlying trait or traits. Various functions have been proposed to model this relationship, and the different calibration packages reflect this. Several software packages have been developed for additional analysis such as equating; they are listed in the next section.\n\nBILOG-MG is a software program for IRT analysis of dichotomous (correct/incorrect) data, including fit and differential item functioning. It is commercial, and only available from Scientific Software International or Assessment Systems Corporation.\n\nFacets is a software program for Rasch analysis of rater- or judge-intermediated data, such as essay grades, diving competitions, satisfaction surveys and quality-of-life data. Other applications include rank-order data, binomial trials and Poisson counts. \n\nflexMIRT IRT software is a multilevel, multiple group software package for item analysis, item calibration, and test scoring. The flexMIRT IRT software package fits a variety of unidimensional and multidimensional item response theory models (also known as item factor analysis models) to single-level and multilevel data in any number of groups. \n\nICL (IRT Command Language) performs IRT calibrations, including the 1, 2, and 3 parameter logistic models as well as the partial credit model and generalized partial credit model. It can also generate response data. As the name implies, it is completely command code driven, with no graphical user interface. \n\njMetrik is free and open source software for conducting a comprehensive psychometric analysis. It was developed by J. Patrick Meyer at the University of Virginia. Current methods include classical item analysis, differential item functioning (DIF) analysis, item response theory, IRT equating, and nonparametric item response theory. The item analysis includes proportion, point biserial, and biserial statistics for all response options. Reliability coefficients include Cronbach's alpha, Guttman's lambda, the Feldt-Gilmer Coefficient, the Feldt-Brennan coefficient, decision consistency indices, the conditional standard error of measurement, and reliability if item deleted. The DIF analysis is based on nonparametric item characteristic curves and the Mantel-Haenszel procedure. DIF effect sizes and ETS DIF classifications are included in the output. IRT methods include the Rasch, partial credit, and rating scale models estimated via JMLE. jMetrik also provides the 3PL, 4PL, and generalized partial credit models estimated via MMLE. Person scoring methods include MLE, MAP, and EAP. IRT equating methods include mean/mean, mean/sigma, Haebara, and Stocking-Lord procedures.\n\njMetrik also include basic descriptive statistics and a graphics facility that produces bar charts, pie chart, histograms, kernel density estimates, and line plots.\n\njMetrik is a pure Java application that runs on 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows, Mac, and Linux operating systems. jMetrik requires Java 1.6 on the host computer.\n\nWhile basically a classical test theory program, Lertap 5 has support for users of Xcalibre, Bilog-MG, the IRT routines in SAS, and \"EIRT\", the Excel equivalent of the \"RIRT\" package. Lertap 5 runs an Excel \"app\", as does EIRT. These two programs combined make item calibration very feasible using just Excel.\n\nMULTILOG is an extension of BILOG to data with polytomous (multiple) responses. It is commercial, and only available from Scientific Software International or Assessment Systems Corporation.\n\nBMIRT is a free Java multi-purpose application program that conducts item calibrations and ability estimation in a multidimensional, multi-group item response theory (IRT) model framework; it can fit dichotomous or polytomous models, along with mixed models. It supports both exploratory and confirmatory and for both compensatory and noncompensatory MIRT models.\n\nPARSCALE is a program designed specifically for polytomous IRT analysis. It is commercial, and only available from Scientific Software International or Assessment Systems Corporation.\n\nPARAM-3PL is a free program for the calibration of the 3-parameter logistic IRT model. It was developed by Lawrence Rudner at the Education Resources Information Center (ERIC). The latest release was version 0.93 in August 2012. \n\nTestfact features - Marginal maximum likelihood (MML) exploratory factor analysis and classical item analysis of binary data\n- Computes tetrachoric correlations, principal factor solution, classical item descriptive statistics, fractile tables and plots\n- Handles up to 10 factors using numerical quadrature: up to 5 for non-adaptive and up to 10 for adaptive quadrature\n- Handles up to 15 factors using Monte Carlo integration techniques\n- Varimax (orthogonal) and PROMAX (oblique) rotation of factor loadings\n- Handles an important form of confirmatory factor analysis known as \"bifactor\" analysis: Factor pattern consists of one main factor plus group factors\n- Simulation of responses to items based on user specified parameters\n- Correction for guessing and not-reached items\n- Allows imposition of constraints on item parameter estimates\n- Handles omitted and not-presented items\n- Detailed online HELP documentation includes syntax and annotated examples.\n\nWINMIRA 2001 is a program for analyses with the Rasch model for dichotomous and polytomous ordinal responses, with the latent class analysis, and with the Mixture Distribution Rasch model for dichotomous and polytomous item responses. The software provides conditional maximum likelihood (CML) estimation of item parameters, as well as MLE and WLE estimates of person parameters, and person- and item-fit statistics as well as information criteria (AIC, BIC, CAIC) for model selection. The software also performs a parametric bootstrap procedure for the selection of the number of mixture components. A free student version is available from Matthias von Davier's webpage and a commercial version is available.\n\nWinsteps is a program designed for analysis with the Rasch model, a one-parameter item response theory model which differs from the 1PL model in that each individual in the person sample is parameterized for item estimation and it is prescriptive and criterion-referenced, rather than descriptive and norm-referenced in nature. It is commercially available from Winsteps, Inc. A previous DOS-based version, BIGSTEPS, is also available.\n\nXCalibre is a commercial program that performs marginal maximum likelihood estimation of both dichotomous (1PL-Rasch, 2PL, 3PL) and all major polytomous IRT models. The interface is point-and-click; no command code required. Its output includes both spreadsheets and a detailed, narrated report document with embedded tables and figures, which can be printed and delivered to subject matter experts for item review. It is only available from Assessment Systems Corporation.\n\nIATA is a software package for analysing psychometric and educational assessment data. The interface is point-and-click, and all functionality is delivered through wizard-style interfaces that are based on different workflows or analysis goals, such as pilot testing or equating. IATA reads and writes csv, Excel and SPSS file formats, and produces exportable graphics for all statistical analyses. Each analysis also includes heuristics suggesting appropriate interpretations of the numerical results. IATA performs factor analysis, (1PL-Rasch, 2PL, 3PL) scaling and calibration, differential item functioning (DIF) analysis, (basic) computer aided test development, equating, IRT-based standard setting, score conditioning, and plausible value generation. It is available for free from Polymetrika International.\n\nR package. Analysis of dichotomous and polytomous response data using unidimensional and multidimensional latent trait models under the Item Response Theory paradigm. Exploratory and confirmatory models can be estimated with quadrature (EM) or stochastic (MHRM) methods. Confirmatory bi-factor and two-tier analyses are available for modeling item testlets. Multiple group analysis and mixed effects designs also are available for detecting differential item functioning and modelling item and person covariates.\n\nR package. Analysis of multivariate dichotomous and polytomous data using latent trait models under the Item Response Theory approach. It includes the Rasch, the Two-Parameter Logistic, the Birnbaum's Three-Parameter, the Graded Response, and the Generalized Partial Credit Models.\n\nR package. The package includes marginal and joint maximum likelihood estimation of uni- and multidimensional item response models (Rasch, 2PL, Generalized Partial Credit, Rating Scale, Multi Facets), fit statistics, standard error estimation, as well as plausible value imputation and weighted likelihood estimation of ability.\n\nACER ConQuest is a computer program for fitting both unidimensional and multidimensional item response and latent regression models. It provides data analysis based on a comprehensive and flexible range of item response models (IRM), allowing examination of the properties of performance assessments, traditional assessments and rating scales. ACER ConQuest 4 also offers wider measurement and research community analysis procedures based on the most up-to-date psychometric methods of multifaceted item response models, multidimensional item response models, latent regression models and drawing plausible values.\n\nBecause of the complexity of IRT, there exist few software packages capable of calibration. However, many software programs exist for specific ancillary IRT analyses such as equating and scaling. Examples of such software follow.\n\nLinkMIRT is a free Java application program that links two sets of item parameters in a multidimensional IRT (MIRT) framework. The software can implement the Stocking and Lord method, the mean/mean method, and the mean/sigma method. Linking by comment-person and by random equivalent-groups design are supported.\n\nSimuMIRT is a program that simulates multidimensional data (examinee ability and item responses) for a fixed form (i.e., paper and pencil) test, from a user-specified set of parameters. The rater-effect model is supported.\n\nSimuMCAT is a free Java application program that simulates a multidimensional computer adaptive test (MCAT). The user can select from five different MCAT item selection procedures (Volume, Kullback-Leibler information, Minimize the error variance of the linear combination, Minimum Angle, and Minimize the error variance of the composite score with the optimized weight). Two exposure control approaches are possible: the traditional Sympson-Hetter approach and a maximum exposure control approach. It is also possible to implement content constraints using the Priority Index method. Different stopping rules are implemented with fixed-length test and varying-length test. The user specifies true examinee ability, item pools, and item selection procedures, and the program outputs selected items with item responses and ability estimates. Bayesian and non-Bayesian methods can be specified by the user. The examinees’ ability and item pools can also be created from the program by the user specified distributions.\n\nIRTEQ is a freeware Windows GUI application that implements IRT scaling and equating developed by Kyung (Chris) T. Han. It implements IRT scaling/equating methods that are widely used with the “Non-Equivalent Groups Anchor Test” design: Mean/Mean, Mean/Sigma, Robust Mean/Sigma, and TCC methods. For TCC methods, IRTEQ provides the user with the option to choose various score distributions for incorporation into the loss function. IRTEQ supports various popular unidimensional IRT models: Logistic models for dichotomous responses (with 1, 2, or 3 parameters) and the Generalized Partial Credit Model (GPCM) (including Partial Credit Model (PCM), which is a special case of GPCM) and Graded Response Model (GRM) for polytomous responses. IRTEQ can also equate test scores on the scale of a test to the scale of another test using IRT true score equating.\n\nResidPlots-2 is a free program for IRT graphical residual analysis. It was developed by Tie Liang, Kyung (Chris) T. Han, and Ronald K. Hambleton at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.\n\nWinGen is a free Windows-based program that generates IRT parameters and item responses. Kyung (Chris) T. Han at the University of Massachusetts Amherst.\n\nST conducts item response theory (IRT) scale transformations for dichotomously scored tests.\n\nPOLYST conducts IRT scale transformations for dichotomously and polytomously scored tests.\n\nSTUIRT conducts IRT scale transformations for mixed-format tests (tests that include some multiple choice items and some polytomous items).\n\nR package. This package uses item response theory methods to compute linking constants and conduct chain linking of unidimensional or multidimensional tests for multiple groups under a common item design. The unidimensional methods include the Mean/Mean, Mean/Sigma, Haebara, and Stocking-Lord methods for dichotomous (1PL, 2PL and 3PL) and/or polytomous (graded response, partial credit/generalized partial credit, nominal, and multiple-choice model) items. The multidimensional methods include the least squares method and extensions of the Haebara and Stocking-Lord method using single or multiple dilation parameters for multidimensional extensions of all the unidimensional dichotomous and polytomous item response models. The package also includes functions for importing item and/or ability parameters from common IRT software, conducting IRT true score and observed score equating, and plotting item response curves/surfaces, vector plots, and comparison plots for examining parameter drift.\n\nDecision consistency methods are applicable to criterion-referenced tests such as licensure exams and academic mastery testing.\n\nIteman provides an index of decision consistency as well as a classical estimate of the conditional standard error of measurement at the cutscore, which is often requested for accreditation of a testing program.\n\njMetrik is free and open source software for conducting a comprehensive psychometric analysis. Detailed information is listed above. jMetrik includes Huynh's decision consistency estimates if cut-scores are provided in the item analysis.\n\nLertap calculates several statistics related to decision and classification consistency, including Livingston's coefficient, the Brennan-Kane dependability index, kappa, and an estimate of p(0), number of correct classifications as a proportion, derived by using the Peng-Subkoviac adaptation of Huynh's method. More detailed information concerning Lertap is provided above, under 'Classical test theory'.\n\nSoftware designed for general statistical analysis can often be used for certain types of psychometric analysis. Moreover, code for more advanced types of psychometric analysis is often available.\n\nR is a programming environment designed for statistical computing and production of graphics. Basic R functionality can be extended through installing contributed 'packages', and a list of psychometric related packages.\n\nSPSS, originally called the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences, is a commercial general statistical analysis program where the data is presented in a spreadsheet layout and common analyses are menu driven.\n\nS-Plus is a commercial analysis package based on the programming language \"S\".\n\nSAS is a commercially available package for statistical analysis and manipulation of data. It is also command-based.\n"}
{"id": "41615728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41615728", "title": "Sami Frashëri High School", "text": "Sami Frashëri High School\n\nSami Frashëri High School (Albanian: \"Gjimnazi Sami Frashëri\") is a selective entry gymnasium with two campuses located on the same street in the Qendër neighborhood of Prishtinë, Republic of Kosovo. The school is highly regarded for academics. The school is among the oldest in Prishtina and Kosovo, and it holds the name of the writer, philosopher, playwright and prominent figure of the Albanian Renaissance Movement, Sami Frashëri.\n\nThe \"Sami Frashëri\" Gymnasium works under the frameworks and curriculum of the MEST of the Republic of Kosovo, and it is one of the most successful gymnasiums in the Balkan Peninsula. Teaching is offered in Albanian and Turkish, with Albanian being the main teaching language. It is one of the most competitive high schools in Kosovo, with annual applications far exceeding the available spots. The alumni of the gymnasium hold important roles in government offices, teaching roles at Universities, and in the public scene, making the school one of the most successful of its kind.\n\nThe gymnasium has 2 pathways, Social Sciences (Albanian: \"Shkenca Shoqerore\") located in the former technical school and Natural Sciences (Albanian: \"Shkenca Natyrore\") located in the original building. The subjects taught are mathematics (Analysis & Algebra), the native language, one to three foreign languages, history, geography, informatics (computers), the natural sciences (biology, chemistry, physics), history of art, music, philosophy, logic, physical education and the social sciences (sociology, ethics or religious education, psychology, politics and economy).\n\nFounded in the early 1900s as Kosovo's first Albanian language high school.\n\n\"Sami Frashëri\" Gymnasium is the first gymnasium teaching in the Albanian language in Kosovo. The school was established at the end of the 19th century to the beginning of the 20th century, during the Ottoman Empire. Although the majority of students and teachers were Albanian, classes were taught in the Turkish language, because the Ottoman power did not allow Albanian language to be taught.\n\nIn 1912, after the First Balkan War, Kosovo was brought under Serbian rule, and the first Gymnasium of Prishtina was opened in 1913, although this time, in the Serbian language. The Serbian Gymnasium in Prishtina was functioning with a few interruptions until 1941. During this period, most of the faculty were Serbs, whereas there was a mixture in ethnic groups among the students, but mostly Serb students. Classes were taught in Serbian. During these hard times, a number of Albanian students were able to finish the Gymnasium and were able to finish university in Belgrade, Zagreb and other countries.\n\nIn 1941, after Germany and Italy took power over Yugoslavia, Albanians who lived under the Serbian rule, new and better conditions were made for their education. A large part of Kosovo and other Albanian lands, who were under Serbian rule until 1941, joined Albania in an Italian Occupied zone. These places were brought into the jurisdiction of the Albanian government in Tirana. the Ministry of Education, led by Professor Ernest Koliqi, in the Summer of 1941, created a project which sought the expansion of Albanian elementary schools through all Albanian lands, whereas in capital cities, the opening of Albanian high schools.\n\nWith this framework, Prishtina opened 1 high school with 2 branches:\n1. General (Normal) Branch, similar to the General (Normal) School of Elbasan.\n2. Liceale (High School) Branch or Gymnasium.\n\nThis mixed school opened with the name \"Sami Frashëri\" and began functioning in 1941 in the Albanian language and was the first school of its kind in Prishtina and Kosovo\n\nFrom 1945 to 1955, the gymnasium functioned in 2 languages, Albanian, with the name Real Albanian Gymnasium and Serbian, with the name Real Serbian Gymnasium\n\nFrom 1955, the Gymnasium was established as a mixed gymnasium with the name \"Ivo Lola Ribar\" Gymnasium. During this period, there was a lot of discrimination against the Albanians, where they were forced to take many classes in the Serbian language. From 1960, the school began giving classes in the Turkish language, whereas from 1978, the school included the reform, Oriented Learning. After the failure of this reform, the school continued as a classical gymnasium, with 2 pathways lasting 4 years.\n\nFrom 1990, Albanian students and teachers were forced removal from the school. The gymnasium was continued in the home-school of Mehmet Aliu, where they established the school as \"Sami Frashëri\"\n\nAfter the Kosovo War in 1999, the school continued to operate in the original school building, where classes were taught either in the Albanian language or the Turkish language. \"Sami Frashëri\" Gymnasium can be seen as a very old school with many traditions, that has made a huge contribution to the education of Albanians in Kosovo.\n\nThe \"Sami Frashëri\" Gymnasium continues its tradition in many different conditions, but nevertheless the school manages to overcome many different situations as a growing school and among the best gymnasiums in the Balkans.\n\nToday, there are around 107 employees at the school among them, 2 speakers, 1 librarian, 1 secretary, 92 teachers in the Albanian language and 9 teachers in the Turkish language. The school has around 11 maintenance workers.\n\n"}
{"id": "55809314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55809314", "title": "Shonda Kuiper", "text": "Shonda Kuiper\n\nShonda Roelfs Kuiper is a professor of statistics and statistics educator at Grinnell College and a former statistician for Hallmark Cards.\nShe chairs the Joint Committee on Statistics Education of the American Statistical Association and Mathematical Association of America,\nand is the author of a statistics textbook with J. Sklar, \"Practicing Statistics: Guided Investigations for the Second Course\" (Pearson, 2012).\n\nKuiper did her undergraduate studies in mathematics at Wartburg College, graduating in 1990,\nand earned a master's degree and Ph.D. in statistics at Iowa State University in 1994 and 1997 respectively.\nHer dissertation, supervised jointly by Herbert T. David and Derrick K. Rollins, was \"Several techniques to detect and identify systematic biases when process constraints are bilinear\".\nShe worked as a quality engineer at Hallmark from 1997 to 2001, when she returned to Wartburg as an assistant professor of mathematics. She moved to Grinnell in 2003.\n\nIn 2017, she became a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\n"}
{"id": "22813275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22813275", "title": "Teaching kit (museum)", "text": "Teaching kit (museum)\n\nA teaching kit is a teaching resource developed by a museum education department with the intention of creating cross-curricular learning. Such kits often include many resources, such as an educators' guide, a CD-ROM with works of art and primary sources (letters, maps, period photographs), overhead transparencies, posters, curricula, and step-by-step lesson plans. The projects are founded on the belief that art and material culture can be a valuable lens through which to study a historical moment. \n\nAs N. Elizabeth Schlatter, the author of \"Museum Careers: A Practical Guide for Students and Novices\", explains, the role of museums is to make “a unique contribution to the public by collecting, preserving, and interpreting the things of this world.\" She goes on to note how the scholar Stephen Weil has said that museums have changed their mission to educating the visitor rather than having a primary mission of object care. Out of this growing trend, Education Departments have become one of the most vital parts of the museum organization. They seek to bring the knowledge of the museum to the community by more public programs and through programs designed to be used in traditional classroom curricula. \n\nThe Phillips Collection in Washington, DC, USA, is an example of a museum with a strong program of creating teaching kits. Their teaching kits focus on works of art and exhibitions at The Phillips Collection. The education department works with mentor teachers and advisors from schools. As they explain on their website, “arts education is a valuable window on subjects such as history, math, English, English as a second language, and geography.” \n\nThe New York Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Education Department has also created programs, workshops and printed and electronic resources for teachers to integrate art into their daily curricula.\n\nThe Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City, NY, USA, has an extensive family education program as well. For their recent Georgia O'Keeffe: Abstraction show, family kits with flowers, colored pencils and a gallery guide were given at the coat check desk. Similarly for the 2010 Biennial a family guide is offered .\n\nThe US National Endowment for the Humanities has also contributed to this trend with a program called Picturing America, a set of forty, carefully selected works of art spanning several centuries—all by American painters, sculptors, photographers, and architects. NEH Chairman Bruce Cole said, “Picturing America helps us understand our democracy by bringing us face to face with the people, places, and events that have shaped our country. It provides an innovative way to experience America's history through our nation's art.” The NEH program includes a resource book, lesson plans, and large, high quality reproductions of these images. It can be used to enhance the study of American history, social studies, language arts, literature, and civics according to their website.\n"}
{"id": "39125005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39125005", "title": "Tom Lowrie (professor)", "text": "Tom Lowrie (professor)\n\nProfessor Tom Lowrie (born 15 December 1964) was appointed a Centenary Professor at the University of Canberra, Australia, in 2014. He has an established international research profile in the discipline area of mathematics education.\n\nLowrie began his teaching career in 1986. He has taught in a number of primary school and university settings (including Australia, Canada, and the United States) over the past twenty years. His positions have included working as a primary school classroom teacher, teaching mathematics education and research method courses to undergraduate and postgraduate students at Charles Sturt University (CSU), and working with classroom teachers on curriculum frameworks. He received his PhD in 1996 from the University of Newcastle.\n\nFrom 2007 to early 2014, Lowrie was Director of the Research Institute for Professional Practice, Learning and Education (RIPPLE), a strategic research institute at CSU which investigates the nature of professional practice and its impact and influence on industry and other professional stakeholders and communities. As Director, Lowrie coordinated and supported the research activity of key researchers and doctoral students. He also managed the international collaborations of a network of researchers contributing to the understanding and application of knowledge about professional practice.\n\nIn 2014, Lowrie was appointed as one of the University of Canberra's Centenary Professors. He works in the Faculty of Education, Science, Technology and Mathematics.\n\nLowrie has an international research profile in the discipline area of mathematics education. His concentrated and sustained (over almost 20 years) body of work has focused on the extent to which primary-aged students use spatial reasoning and visual imagery to solve mathematics problems and the role and nature of graphics in mathematics assessment. More recently, his research has expanded to include students use of digital tools and dynamic imagery to solve problems. Lowrie received a number of grants from the Australian Research Council (ARC), amongst others.\n\nLowrie's research has been disseminated in national and international periodicals and conference proceedings. His work has been communicated at conferences in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States, Singapore, Korea, China, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Greece, Indonesia, and The Netherlands. He has also been a keynote speaker at several national and international education conferences.\n\nTwo of Lowrie's most well known studies are the ARC-funded projects: Graphical Languages in Mathematics (GLIM) [2008–11]; and Early Primary Graphical Languages in Mathematics (EPGLIM) [2009–11]—undertaken with Professor Carmel Diezmann (Queensland University of Technology, Australia). Together, the research focused on children's understanding of graphics in mathematics, specifically primary students aged 8 to 12 years. The aim of the research was to understand how children learn about general purpose graphical languages that are important in mathematics (such as graphs, diagrams, charts, tables, and maps). In this day and age, it is essential that all children have the skills to interpret the graphical languages that are such a large part of the mathematics curriculum. By monitoring the development of students' knowledge of information graphics, an understanding was formed of how children 'code-break' the different types of graphics that they encounter in their everyday mathematics lessons.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2015, Lowrie is undertaking a research project funded by the ARC on the processing of mathematics tasks. The project aims to better understand how students process mathematics tasks so the move toward digital assessment can be managed effectively within classrooms to promote assessment for learning.\n\nLowrie holds an ARC grant (2012–14) with Professor Robyn Jorgensen (Griffith University, Australia), for a large-scale mathematics research project that aims to better understand the factors that impact on student learning in mathematics, specifically teachers' practices in creating strong learning environments. The results of the study will help in understanding how social and geographic location may impact on mathematics teaching and learning.\n\nA $3,400,000 research project that aims to advance innovative practices that will build teachers' capacity in mathematics teaching and engage Grade 7-9 students, particularly girls, in mathematics learning in West Nusa Tenggara (NTB), Indonesia (the Country's second most disadvantaged province). The Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade funded the project, from their Government Partnership for Foreign Development (GPFD) scheme. Other partners include: IKIP Mataram (The Institute of Teacher Training and Education); The Provincial Office of the Ministry of Education Sports and Youth in West Nusa Tenggara (DIKPORA); Institute for Education Quality Assurance (LPMP); and the Provincial Office of Ministry of Religion (DEPAG).\n\nLowrie has published over 140 scholarly books and book chapters, refereed journal articles, and refereed conference proceedings. His recent publications include:\n\nLowrie is an Australian Research Council College Member. In 2014 he began a term as President of the Mathematics Education Research Group of Australasia (MERGA). He was also Secretary of MERGA for five years leading up to 2004. Lowrie was co-editor of the 2012 Mathematics Education Research Group of Australasia (MERGA) 4-yearly review of mathematics education research in Australasia. From 2002 to 2003, Lowrie was co-editor of the journal, \"Australian Primary Mathematics Classroom\". Over the last ten years, he has been a journal referee for a number of national and international periodicals in the field of education.\n\nIn 2011, Lowrie received the Janet Duffin Award from the British Society for Research into Learning Mathematics. This award is made annually to the author of the paper judged by the Editors, Editorial Board and International Advisory Board, to be the most outstanding contribution to the journal, \"Research in Mathematics Education\". In 2005, he won the CSU Vice-Chancellor's Award for Research Excellence, and also in 2005, was nominated an Expert Assessor of International Standing by the ARC.\n\n"}
{"id": "37579068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37579068", "title": "Training and Education in Professional Psychology", "text": "Training and Education in Professional Psychology\n\nTraining and Education in Professional Psychology is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by the American Psychological Association on behalf of the Association of Psychology Postdoctoral and Internship Centers. It was established in 2006 and \"is dedicated to enhancing supervision and training provided by psychologists.\" The current editor-in-chief is Michael C. Roberts of the University of Kansas.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed by the Social Science Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 0.810, ranking it 50th out of 58 journals in the category \"Psychology, Educational\".\n"}
{"id": "367246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=367246", "title": "UC Berkeley College of Chemistry", "text": "UC Berkeley College of Chemistry\n\nThe UC Berkeley College of Chemistry is one of 14 schools and colleges at the University of California, Berkeley. It houses the departments of Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, and Chemical Biology and occupies six buildings flanking a central plaza. US News and World Report has ranked its chemistry and chemical engineering programs first and second in the U.S., respectively, while the 2014 QS World University Rankings has ranked both its chemistry and chemical engineering programs second best in the world. Its faculty and graduates have won numerous awards, including the Wolf Prize, the National Medal of Science, the National Medal of Technology, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, as well as thirteen Nobel Prizes. -13, it has 815 undergraduates, 526 graduate students, and 187 postdoctoral fellows. \n\nThe Department of Chemistry is one of the largest and most productive in the world, graduating about 80 doctoral students per year while maintaining the world's highest citation-per-faculty score. It hosts 6 of the top 100 chemists worldwide by citation impact for 2000–2010, tied with MIT for the most of any institution. Scientists affiliated with the department and the nearby Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory are responsible for the discovery of sixteen elements, including berkelium, named after the city, and seaborgium, named after Nobel laureate and former department chair Glenn Seaborg.\n\nFirst established in 1872, the college awarded its first Ph.D. in 1885 to John Stillman, who later founded the chemistry department at Stanford University. A Division of Chemical Engineering was established in 1946, becoming a department in 1957. The Department of Chemical Engineering changed its name to Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering in 2010 to reflect the research focus of its faculty in the 21st century.\n\nThe College offers three undergraduate degrees: chemical engineering, chemistry, and chemical biology. Chemistry undergrads in the College of Chemistry also have the option to earn a B.A. in chemistry from the College of Letters and Science, or to specialize in a materials chemistry concentration. Two double major programs with the College of Engineering exist: chemical engineering and materials science and engineering, and chemical engineering and nuclear engineering.\n\nPopular undergraduate courses such as Chem 4A (general chemistry) and Chem 12A (organic chemistry) are taught by College of Chemistry faculty.\n\nGraduate programs include the M.S. and Ph.D. in chemical engineering and Ph.D. in chemistry.\n\nAs of 2015, the faculty at the College includes 10 members of the National Academy of Engineering, 28 members of the National Academy of Sciences, and 33 members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. 3 members of the faculty have been awarded the National Medal of Science.\n\nThe College of Chemistry is located on the east side of the UC Berkeley campus. It includes Gilman Hall, a National Historic Landmark, where plutonium was first identified in 1941. Pimentel Hall is one of the largest lecture halls on campus, and features a revolving stage to allow for setup of chemistry demos. The buildings of the College are linked by a network of underground hallways and laboratories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4213035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4213035", "title": "Vasyl Avramenko", "text": "Vasyl Avramenko\n\nVasyl Kyrylovych Avramenko (; sometimes transcribed as Vasile) (1895–1981) was a Ukrainian actor, dancer, choreographer, balletmaster, director, and film producer, credited with spreading Ukrainian folk dance across the world. Colourful, energetic, imaginative, and, quite often exasperating, he was an impresario greatly reminiscent of The Music Man. For his unparalleled missionary zeal and his love of Ukrainian culture, he is considered by many to be the \"Father of Ukrainian Dance\".\n\nVasyl Avramenko was born on March 22, 1895 in Stebliv, a townlet located on the Ros' River approximately 100 km south of Kiev. Orphaned at a young age, he was forced to wander homeless as an adolescent, until he eventually headed east, crossing the vast expanse of Imperial Russia towards Siberia, and reunited with his older brothers in Vladivostok, on the coast of the Sea of Japan. There, Vasyl's eldest brother taught him how to read and write, which enabled Vasyl to gain employment at the naval base. This position allowed Avramenko to visit several major Asian ports as a crewman aboard Russian naval vessels; such worldly exposure encouraged in him a greater love of learning, and he returned to study with his brother whenever possible, eventually earning the qualifications to become a primary school teacher. It was during this time that Vasyl Avramenko saw a production of Ivan Kotliarevsky's operetta \"Natalka Poltavka\" in Vladivostok in 1912, which Avramenko later recounted as having been the first experience of viewing his fellow Ukrainians on stage.\n\nAfter passing his teacher's exams at Vladivostok men's gymnasium in 1915, Russia entered World War I and Avramenko was drafted into the Russian Imperial Army and assigned to the 4th Heavy Artillery Regiment. After two months basic training, he was reassigned to the Irkutsk military school for ensigns, then onto the 35th Siberian Infantry Regiment in Tyumen which advanced from Irkutsk to Bryansk and to the Russian front. Here he was wounded and hospitalized, first in Minsk, then Petrograd, where he visited some of its theaters and became active in a troupe of military actors led by Yasha Vavrak who grasped that Avramenko had a flair for the stage.\n\nIn Kiev, in the summer of 1917, Avramenko attended three of Vasyl Verkhovynets' rare and irregularly scheduled lectures on Ukrainian folk dance, its choreography and stage performance, including theory and practical demonstrations. \nVerkhovynets' theories of Ukrainian dance, which he based on his theatrical training and his extensive research of the village dances of Central Ukraine, would inspire Avramenko to live the life of an artist. During this time, Avramenko took copious notes compiling a vocabulary of Ukrainian dances and dance steps, which he would later develop into his life's work. In his book, \"Ukrainian National Dances, Music, and Costumes\", Avramenko acknowledged the work of Verkhovynets' and the Ukrainian theater in preserving and elevating the legacy of dance in Ukraine.\n\nBy spring of 1919, Avramenko was for a short time in Stanyslaviv, a member of Yosyf Standnyk's theatre before joining Mykola Sadovsky's troupe. During this time, he was able to apply some of the lessons he had learned in the Lysenko School of Music and Drama in Kiev. In the fight between the Bolshevik and White Russian Armies, Avramenko served in the Central Telegraph Administration of the Ukrainian People's Republic. When UNR forces retreated west in 1919-20, he remained in Soviet occupied territory and worked with Ukrainian itinerant troupes of actors that continued to tour the region. He was arrested at this time and interned in Kalisz.\n\nIn February 1921, Avramenko established a school of Ukrainian folk dancing in the Kalisz camp, the first of more than 100 schools over the next 20 years across Europe and North America. He impressed on his pupils that Ukrainian folk dancing could be an art form. \nHe began with 100 students (everyone from the guards to small children), teaching them the basic steps of Ukrainian dance, eventually teaching whole dances, and finally putting on a celebrated performance May 24.\n\nIn the fall of that year he met Alexander Koshetz. Koshetz remarked: \"I was invited to attend a ballet performance by Avramenko's school. The ballet was marvellous: it was simply impossible to believe that such an exacting and artistic work could be created out of our dance!\" \nAvramenko soon became so successful and popular that he set out on tour with a group of his students through present-day western Ukraine, often presenting demonstrations and workshops in the towns he visited, encouraging others to perform his dances and pass them on to still others. The tour passed through Lviv several times between 1922 and 1924, while also visiting Rivne, Lutsk, Kremenets, Oleksandriia, Mezhirich, Chelm, Brest-Litovsk, Stryi, Stanyslaviv, Kolomyia, Przemyśl, Deliatyn, Ternopil, and Drohobych.\n\nDecember 1925, Avramenko arrived in Canada in Halifax, a man with a mission, it being his determination to tour North America with dancers, singers, and instrumentalists to bring attention to the Ukrainian people and their fight for independence.\n\nEighty-five percent of Ukrainians in Canada at the time lived on the prairies. Avramenko decided to stay in Toronto, and opened his first dance school in North America in St. Mary's Roman Catholic hall, today the Factory Theatre building. For fees from five to thirty dollars, he offered a set of lessons for pre-schoolers to grown-ups. The school inculcated its pupils with Ukrainian pride and identity. His troupe first performed, the year after his arrival, at the Canadian National Exhibition (CNE) August 30 through September 11 to grandstands filled with up to twenty-five thousand spectators. When the dancers gave a special performance at the women's pavilion, Florence Randal Livesay spoke glowingly about Ukrainian folk dancing. Avaramenko's name now became coupled with that of Koshetz in the Ukrainian-Canadian press. Articles about him appeared in every major Ukrainian-Canadian newspaper, as well as the English ones.\n\nAvramenko arrived in Winnipeg in January 1927. His troupe gave their first performance at the Canadian-Ukrainian Institute Prosvita hall at the corner of Pritchard and Arlington in Winnipeg's North-End. This publicized his arrival, and he opened a school shortly thereafter. By April 30, Avramenko and 275 of his pupils performed at Winnipeg's amphitheatre, a venue usually reserved for hockey and politics.\n\nAvramenko and his disciples began to set up schools quickly across the prairies, in Saskatoon, Yorkton, and Edmonton. Their base of support was a strong Ukrainian-Canadian community. For example, some 20 Ukrainian public school teachers attended his Edmonton classes, and Avramenko gave them instructions on how to teach dance when they returned to their schools. Avramenko traveled from town to town, teaching the same dances. When he was finished teaching in a town, he would assign a leader to continue teaching to the residents. One of these leaders was Chester Kuc, who founded the Cheremosh Ukrainian Dance Company.\n\nOn June 16, 1928, Avramenko married one of his star dance pupils, Pauline Garbolinsky, from Winnipeg, and soon the couple was living in New York City. With a network of dance schools across Canada, Avramenko now turned his sites to the United States. Lacking business acumen, he had debts in excess of three thousand dollars upon leaving Canada.\n\nNew York at this time was a creative center for drama, song, and dance. Eugene O'Neill was having his plays produced. George Gershwin was writing musicals here. Martha Graham had just opened a school of contemporary dance. Vasile and Pauline Avramenko lived in rented rooms on 8th Avenue in Brooklyn. Avramenko set up his school in Little Ukraine in Manhattan, Greenwich Village to the west of it, and the Lower East Side with a Ukrainian enclave to the east. Able to dispense with live music with the arrival of the phonograph and vinyl records, it became easier for him in the 1930s to offer these lessons. Within a few months he had over 500 pupils attending.\n\nPaying dance instructors over widely dispersed areas across Canada and the United States, as well as for rental spaces for his schools, perpetuated his financial woes. To clear up these troubles, Avramenko turned to the idea of staging his work on Broadway. His successes up to now had been solely in the Ukrainian community. His first attempt to reach beyond it was at the Star Casino, and was disrupted by a summer storm that hit the city. His second attempt was at the Metropolitan Opera, with 500 dancers, a chorus of 100 singers, and a folk orchestra, all dressed in Ukrainian costume. The New York Evening Post gave it a rave review, \"…excited over the kaleidoscopic ardors of the dance, the richness of the chorus, the congeniality of the audience and the fairly inspiring naturalness of what really amounted to a brilliant Ukrainian folk festival.\" The Ukrainian newspapers, like \"Svoboda\", saw the performance as a well-attended artistic failure. In a venue like the Met, where the great operas of the world were performed by the finest singers, the Ukrainian press had expected those values to be reflected in the premiere of a comparable Ukrainian operetta or musical. Instead, they found themselves seeing more of what they, unlike the larger English community, were already familiar with from Avramenko. His debts increased, and in order to address his finances, he turned to film.\n\nBy October 1933, Avramenko was in Hollywood. Along the way to the west coast, he obtained loans and donations from Ukrainian immigrants in these far-flung communities, only aware of who he was through what they had read, unaware as yet of his inability to handle finances. Avramenko always claimed to have been offered a lucrative contract to dance in the film \"Catherine the Great\" starring Marlene Dietrich, but had refused on the grounds that the dances would be billed as 'Russian' dances.\n\nHe staged performances at the Chicago World's Fair of 1933, and borrowed a thousand dollars from his father-in-law to do so. In 1935, his Baltimore pupils participated in the White House Easter Egg Roll and he claimed a victory for the Ukrainian cause and published postcards with photos of Eleanor Roosevelt at the event.\n\nOn the road most of the time, leaving behind his wife with their newly born daughter, with little if anything to live on, so that his wife depended on friends to survive, by 1934, his marriage began to fall apart. The Great Depression made it hard to earn a living running dance schools. Avramenko made plans to produce a feature film based on the oldest and most popular Ukrainian operetta, \"Natalka Poltavka\", convinced that it would bring fame and glory to the Ukrainian cause. He rallied wealthy widows and convinced them that people in their community needed a place to apprentice in film. The \"Avramenko Film Company\" was established in New York City in 1936. Having raised enough money, twenty-five thousand dollars, to begin production, fortuitously Edgar G. Ulmer, a real Hollywood film director appeared on the scene. Ulmer had lost favour in Hollywood after running off with the wife of the nephew of Carl Laemmle Sr., who owned Universal Studios.\n\nUlmer put together a film crew and rewrote the screenplay. The musical score was recorded ahead of time at Reeves Sound Studio in New York City. The set was located on a farm northwest of Trenton, New Jersey. Ulmer said of Avramenko: \"Nothing was impossible for Avramenko… The man was so enthusiastic. I couldn't say no to him…. He was the spark of everything.\" Without a Hollywood distributor, the film company rented theatres at high cost to show the film. In the end, though an artistic success, the film left Avramenko in further debt. Koshetz was particularly critical of the film, finding it offensive and tasteless. Not surprisingly, his review appeared in \"Svoboda\". It sounded very much like a personal attack. No doubt Avramenko's personality had got under Koshetz' skin when they had toured together. Koshetz' criticism was not without merit. Avramenko, despite his rhetoric to develop a Ukrainian film industry, had brought in people and resources from outside the community in order to make the film. In fairness though to Avramenko, these resources did not exist in the Ukrainian community at that time. This was the first Ukrainian language film produced in the United States.\n\nUnable to raise money in New York due to the financial setback of his last film, he turned to Canada to raise the funds for his next feature film \"Cossacks in Exile\". In September 22, 1937, Avramenko returned to Winnipeg, and announced the creation of the \"Ukrainian Film Corporation\". At this distance from New York, audiences had seen and loved his film \"Natalka Poltavka\", but knew nothing about the questionable financial state in which it had left its shareholders, and Avramenko. Appealing unabashedly to patriotic Ukrainian sentiment, Avramenko sold rights to screen the new film province by province. Rumours circulated that he was using these funds to pay off old debts. Dr. Mykyta Mandryka, the secretary-treasurer of the new company seemed to be the only one to fully appreciate the situation, and wrote a letter to Avramenko. \"We really do not understand each other, and this is why: you think it is necessary, above all, to start producing the film with or without money, and you believe things will somehow turn out well. You live on high hopes and faith in an imminent miracle. But that is not enough to handle people's money wisely.\" Avramenko ignored all advice and continued to ask for donations, borrow money, and sell rights, fundraising the way he had always done.\n\nFilming began the first week of May 1938. It ended November 27 and the director Ulmer was pleased with the final product. His cheerful mood though turned when he saw advertising for the movie, identifying Avramenko as the \"director\" or \"general production director\". He stormed into the film company's office, clearly having failed to appreciate the size of Avramenko's ego.\n\nAgain, with Ulmer having directed it, the film received great reviews. In Winnipeg, filled with civic pride, the critics were unashamedly enthusiastic. The New York Times did not even notice that it was a Canadian production, stating that it was \"highly agreeable both to the eye and the ear.\" Koshetz did not publish any review of it, but privately was very critical. With no American or international distributor the film fell victim, like the previous, to being shown city by city at a high cost for theatre rental wherever theatres could be obtained.\n\nThe remaining years of his life, Avramenko spent hauling around film canisters, showing his films or outright selling them wherever he disembarked. In 1954 he released the documentary film \"The Triumph of Ukrainian Dance\", consisting primarily of excerpts from documentaries and feature films produced by him during the 1930s.\n\nIn postwar Canada between 1945 and 1947, Avramenko offered Ukrainian folk dancing courses. One of his students in Winnipeg at this time was William Kurelek, nineteen at the time. By the mid-1960s folk dance ensembles were reinventing themselves: Rusalka in Winnipeg, Yevshan in Saskatoon, Shumka in Edmonton, as well as the touring ensembles from the Soviet Union, the State Folk Dance Ensemble of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic under Pavlo Virsky. They were interested in preserving the spirit of the folk dance rather than preserving traditional dance steps. Avramenko's concerts juxtaposed against these dances were simply a bit of nostalgia.\n\nTowards the very end of his life, Avramenko created tribute events, for example \"Ukrainian Tribute to Australia\", and celebrations of some of his personal triumphs and milestones, and rallied the Ukrainian community around them. He had many of his former pupils across North America, and around the world, help him with these events, pupils who had been children when first encountering dance lessons with him. In the end, even the Ukrainian language newspaper \"Svoboda\" and he reconciled, as he lived out his old age in New York City, and whenever he entered their offices on his birthday, everyone would sing Многая літа.\n\nAvramenko died on May 6, 1981 in New York.\n\nIn English\n\nIn Ukrainian\n\n"}
{"id": "10608807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10608807", "title": "Volta Conference", "text": "Volta Conference\n\nThe Volta Conference was the name given to each of the international conferences held in Italy by the Royal Academy of Science in Rome, and funded by the Alessandro Volta Foundation. In the interwar period, they covered a number of topics in science and humanities, alternating between the two.\n\nThe first conference, held at Lake Como in 1927, led to the public introduction of the uncertainty principle by Niels Bohr and Werner Heisenberg. The second conference did not take place until 1932; its topic was \"Europe\", and it was notable for the participation of a number of mainly fascist theorizers, along with non-fascists such as the British historian Christopher Dawson. In 1933 the third conference was on the subject of immunology, and \"The Dramatic Theater\" in 1934. During this period, the influence of Italian aeronautics was gaining momentum, led by General Gaetano Arturo Crocco, an aeronautical engineer who had become interested in ramjet engines in 1931, and influenced the selection of \"High Velocities in Aviation\" for the 1935 meeting. This meeting is notable historically as it introduced a number of topics in compressibility and also included the first presentation on swept wings by Adolf Busemann.\n\n"}
{"id": "41256216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41256216", "title": "Wilderness Risk Management Conference", "text": "Wilderness Risk Management Conference\n\nThe core objective of the Wilderness Risk Management Conference (WRMC) is to offer an outstanding educational experience to help adventure travel and ecotourism companies, clubs, and organizations mitigate the risks inherent in exploring, working, teaching, and recreating in wild places.\n\nThe WRMC was founded in 1994 by a collaboration of organizations that had a stake in how risk is managed in outdoor recreation and outdoor education. The founding group consisted of representatives from NOLS, Outward Bound USA, Wilderness Medical Society, Exum Mountain Guides, Association for Experiential Education, National Park Service, National Safety Network, American Alpine Club, and Outdoor Network.\n\nThe WRMC covers a variety of topics that fall into a few major categories including: emergency planning and crisis response, field practices, legal considerations, program administration, and staff training and decision making. Additionally, the conference provides structured networking time to meet with other professionals working and managing field programs in the United States, Canada, and internationally.\n\n2016 - Salt Lake City, Utah\n\n2015 - Portland, Oregon \n\n2014 - Atlanta, Georgia\n\n2013 - Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming\n\n2012 - Portland, Oregon\n\n2011 - Boston, Massachusetts\n\n2010 - Colorado Springs, Colorado\n\n2009 - Durham, North Carolina\n\n2008 - Grand Teton National Park, Wyoming\n\n2007 - Banff, Alberta, Canada\n\n2006 - Killington, Vermont\n\nWilderness Risk Management Conference\n"}
