{"id": "1587794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1587794", "title": "Abbreviated mental test score", "text": "Abbreviated mental test score\n\nThe Abbreviated mental test score (AMTS) was introduced by Hodkinson in 1972 to rapidly assess elderly patients for the possibility of dementia. Its uses in medicine have become somewhat wider over the years and now the AMTS is used to assess for confusion and other cognitive impairment, although it has mainly been validated in the elderly.\n\nThe following questions are put to the patient. Each question correctly answered scores one point. A score of 7-8 or less suggests cognitive impairment at the time of testing, although further and more formal tests are necessary to confirm a diagnosis of dementia, delirium or other causes of cognitive impairment.\n\n"}
{"id": "25953700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25953700", "title": "Abortion in Belarus", "text": "Abortion in Belarus\n\nAbortion in Belarus has been legal since November 23, 1955, when Belarus was a republic of the Soviet Union. The current abortion legislation dates from December 31, 1987, and is one of the most liberal abortion laws in Europe. Abortion is allowed on request up to 12 weeks, and in specific circumstances, on a variety of grounds, until 28 weeks.\n\nThe 1987 law allows abortion for the traditional reasons of harm or death to the fetus and/or mother, rape and incest, as well as: the death of the husband during pregnancy, a jail sentence for either the mother or father, a court order stripping the pregnant woman of parental rights, if a household already exceeds five children, if the relationship between mother and father ends in divorce, or a family history which includes mental or physical disabilities.\n\nOnce a popular method of birth control, abortions exceeded live births two-to-one in 1995. The rate had fallen by over 75%, with abortions numbering 42,000 (or 39% of the live birth rate) in 2008.\n\n, the abortion rate was 14.7 abortions per 1000 women aged 15–44 years.\n"}
{"id": "20646507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20646507", "title": "Agricultural marketing", "text": "Agricultural marketing\n\nEfforts to develop agricultural marketing have, particularly in developing countries, tended to concentrate on a number of areas, specifically infrastructure development; information provision; training of farmers and traders in marketing and post-harvest issues; and support to the development of an appropriate policy environment. In the past, efforts were made to develop government-run marketing bodies but these have tended to become less prominent over the years.\n\nEfficient marketing infrastructure such as wholesale, retail and assembly markets and storage facilities is essential for cost-effective marketing, to minimize post-harvest losses and to reduce health risks. Markets play an important role in rural development, income generation, food security, and developing rural-market linkages. Experience shows that planners need to be aware of how to design markets that meet a community's social and economic needs and how to choose a suitable site for a new market. In many cases sites are chosen that are inappropriate and result in under-use or even no use of the infrastructure constructed. It is also not sufficient just to build a market: attention needs to be paid to how that market will be managed, operated and maintained.\n\nRural assembly markets are located in production areas and primarily serve as places where farmers can meet with traders to sell their products. These may be occasional (perhaps weekly) markets, such as haat bazaars in India and Nepal, or permanent. Terminal wholesale markets are located in major metropolitan areas, where produce is finally channelled to consumers through trade between wholesalers and retailers, caterers, etc. The characteristics of wholesale markets have changed considerably as retailing changes in response to urban growth, the increasing role of supermarkets and increased consumer spending capacity. These changes may require responses in the way in which traditional wholesale markets are organized and managed.\n\nRetail marketing systems in western countries have broadly evolved from traditional street markets through to the modern hypermarket or out-of-town shopping center. In developing countries, there remains scope to improve agricultural marketing by constructing new retail markets, despite the growth of supermarkets, although municipalities often view markets primarily as sources of revenue rather than infrastructure requiring development. Effective regulation of markets is essential. Inside a market, both hygiene rules and revenue collection activities have to be enforced. Of equal importance, however, is the maintenance of order outside the market. Licensed traders in a market will not be willing to cooperate in raising standards if they face competition from unlicensed operators outside who do not pay any of the costs involved in providing a proper service.\n\nEfficient market information can be shown to have positive benefits for farmers and traders. Up-to-date information on prices and other market factors enables farmers to negotiate with traders and also facilitates spatial distribution of products from rural areas to towns and between markets. Most governments in developing countries have tried to provide market information services to farmers, but these have tended to experience problems of sustainability. Moreover, even when they function, the service provided is often insufficient to allow commercial decisions to be made because of time lags between data collection and dissemination. Modern communications technologies open up the possibility for market information services to improve information delivery through SMS on cell phones and the rapid growth of FM radio stations in many developing countries offers the possibility of more localised information services. In the longer run, the internet may become an effective way of delivering information to farmers. However, problems associated with the cost and accuracy of data collection still remain to be addressed. Even when they have access to market information, farmers often require assistance in interpreting that information. For example, the market price quoted on the radio may refer to a wholesale selling price and farmers may have difficulty in translating this into a realistic price at their local assembly market. Various attempts have been made in developing countries to introduce commercial market information services but these have largely been targeted at traders, commercial farmers or exporters. It is not easy to see how small, poor farmers can generate sufficient income for a commercial service to be profitable although in India a new service introduced by Thomson Reuters was reportedly used by over 100,000 farmers in its first year of operation. Esoko in West Africa attempts to subsidize the cost of such services to farmers by charging access to a more advanced feature set of mobile-based tools to businesses.\n\nFarmers frequently consider marketing as being their major problem. However, while they are able to identify such problems as poor prices, lack of transport and high post-harvest losses, they are often poorly equipped to identify potential solutions. Successful marketing requires learning new skills, new techniques and new ways of obtaining information. Extension officers working with ministries of agriculture or NGOs are often well-trained in agricultural production techniques but usually lack knowledge of marketing or post-harvest handling.\n\nAgricultural marketing needs to be conducted within a supportive policy, legal, institutional, macro-economic, infrastructural and bureaucratic environment. Traders and others are generally reluctant to make investments in an uncertain policy climate, such as those that restrict imports and exports or internal produce movement. Businesses have difficulty functioning when their trading activities are hampered by excessive bureaucracy. Inappropriate law can distort and reduce the efficiency of the market, increase the costs of doing business and retard the development of a competitive private sector. Poor support institutions, such as agricultural extension services, municipalities that operate markets inefficiently and inadequate export promotion bodies, can be particularly damaging. Poor roads increase the cost of doing business, reduce payments to farmers and increase prices to consumers. Finally, corruption can increase the transaction costs faced by those in the marketing chain.\n\nMost governments have at some stage made efforts to promote agricultural marketing improvements. In the United States the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) is a division of USDA and has programs that provide testing, support standardization and grading and offer market news services. AMS oversees marketing agreements and orders research and promotion programs. It also purchases commodities for federal food programs. USDA also provides support to agricultural marketing work at various universities. In the United Kingdom, support for marketing of some commodities was provided before and after the Second World War by boards such as the Milk Marketing Board and the Egg Marketing Board. These boards were closed down in the 1970s. As a colonial power, Britain established marketing boards in many countries, particularly in Africa. Some continue to exist although many were closed at the time of the introduction of structural adjustment measures in the 1990s.\n\nSeveral developing countries have established government-sponsored marketing or agribusiness units. South Africa, for example, started the National Agricultural Marketing Council (NAMC) as a response to the deregulation of the agriculture industry and closure of marketing boards in the country. India has the long-established National Institute of Agricultural Marketing. These are primarily research and policy organizations, but other agencies provide facilitating services for marketing channels, such as the provision of infrastructure, market information and documentation support. Examples from the Caribbean include the National Agricultural Marketing Development Corporation (NAMDEVCO) in Trinidad and Tobago and the New Guyana Marketing Corporation in Guyana.\n\nNew marketing linkages between agribusiness, large retailers and farmers are gradually being developed, e.g. through contract farming, group marketing and other forms of collective action.\nDonors and NGOs are paying increasing attention to ways of promoting direct linkages between farmers and buyers within a value chain context. More attention is now being paid to the development of regional markets (e.g. East Africa) and to structured trading systems that should facilitate such developments. The growth of supermarkets, particularly in Latin America and East and South East Asia, is having a significant impact on marketing channels for horticultural, dairy and livestock products. Nevertheless, “spot” markets will continue to be important for many years, necessitating attention to infrastructure improvement such as for retail and wholesale markets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28353453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28353453", "title": "Bon Secours Health System", "text": "Bon Secours Health System\n\nThe Bon Secours Health System is the largest private hospital network in Ireland. It is owned by the Roman Catholic Bon Secours Sisters and consists of:\n\n"}
{"id": "6391405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6391405", "title": "Brisbane Water (utility)", "text": "Brisbane Water (utility)\n\nBrisbane Water was a former government business enterprise of the Brisbane City Council, a local government authority with administrative responsibility for the City of Brisbane, Queensland, in Australia. Brisbane Water was responsible for the distribution of reticulated potable water throughout Brisbane, as well as the treatment and transport of bulk water to the local government areas of Brisbane City, Ipswich City, Logan City, Redcliffe City, Pine Rivers Shire and Caboolture Shire. Brisbane Water operated the city's reticulated sewerage network and associated treatment plants.\n\nOn 1 July 2010 the functions of Brisbane Water were formally assumed by the Queensland Urban Utilities, a statutory authority of the Government of Queensland, with shares resting in the local government authorities of Brisbane, Ipswich, Lockyer Valley, Scenic Rim, and Somerset councils.\n\nBrisbane Water ceased operating as a business unit of Brisbane Council as part of a restructure introduced by the then Lord Mayor, Campbell Newman. The division was renamed initially as Brisbane City Council - Water Distribution.\n\nIn 2008, BCC - Water Distribution transitioned bulk water treatment and transport assets, functions and some staff to newly created Queensland state government water authorities, with the government's Southeast Qld Water Reforms enforced by the . From late 2009, the BCC - Water Distribution division changed its trademark temporarily to Queensland Urban Utilities, as part of a phased transition into the final stage of previously announced state government water reforms requiring local councils to transition remaining water and sewerage distribution and collection functions into new entities, with the transition enforced by the .\n\nOn 1 July 2010, Brisbane City Council ceased operating under the Queensland Urban Utilities trademark, with water distribution, and sewerage collection and treatment assets, functions and staff transitioned to the new Queensland Urban Utilities, a distributor-retailer statutory authority jointly owned by five local Councils. Simultaneously, the neighbouring distributor-retailers of UnityWater and AllConnex also commenced operations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39872018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39872018", "title": "Bump Nonprofit Design Studio", "text": "Bump Nonprofit Design Studio\n\nBump Nonprofit Design Studio (Bump) is a not for profit organization based in Champaign, Illinois that created the OpenSocket prosthetic arm.\n\nFounded as a student group (Illinois Prosthetics Team) at the University of Illinois in 2008, the group registered as a not for profit organization named Illini Prosthetics Technologies in 2009 and gained 501(c)(3) status in 2010. In 2012, the organization changed the name to Bump Nonprofit Design Studio.\n\nThe OpenSocket prosthetic arm was designed by Bump and is a transradial body-powered prosthetic device with an adjustable socket. The OpenSocket is made up of a flexible plastic core enclosed in fabric. This flexible plastic core consists of two layers of low density polyethelene plastic that allows the device to change size and shape in order to fit different users with the same socket. The OpenSocket uses a standard harness and cable system to provide control over opening and closing the terminal device.\n"}
{"id": "14071922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14071922", "title": "Center for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics", "text": "Center for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics\n\nThe Center for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics (CMBI) is a Dutch centre for \"in silico\" research on biomolecules (mainly protein structure and genomes) and the small molecules (drugs) with which they interact.\n\nThe institute was founded in 1999 at the Radboud University in Nijmegen. In 2008 the institute will become part of the Radboud University Medical Center.\n\nIts four research groups focus on:\n\n"}
{"id": "15402343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15402343", "title": "Civil confinement", "text": "Civil confinement\n\nIn the United States, civil confinement is a term for the formal legal process by which persons convicted of certain sexual offenses (generally violent sex offenders) may be subject to involuntary commitment upon completion of a prison sentence.\n\nAlthough the exact details of the legal process may vary from state to state, the United States Supreme Court reviewed and upheld as constitutional a statutory process adopted in Kansas. See \"Kansas v. Hendricks\", 521 U.S. 346 (1997). There, civil confinement proceedings could be initiated against \"any person who has been convicted of or charged with a sexually violent offense and who suffers from a mental abnormality or personality disorder which makes the person likely to engage in the predatory acts of sexual violence.\" Many of those terms were themselves defined in the statute, including \"mental abnormality,\" defined as \"congenital or acquired condition affecting the emotional or volitional capacity which predisposes the person to commit sexually violent offenses in a degree constituting such person a menace to the health and safety of others.\" \"Id\".\n\nIf a prison identified an inmate who was about to be released but potentially fit this definition, the prison authorities were required to notify the local prosecutor of the impending release. The prosecutor was then required to decide whether to petition for commitment. The court would then have to determine whether probable cause existed to support the inmate's status as a \"sexually violent predator,\" and, upon such a determination, order the inmate to be psychologically evaluated. The psychological evaluation would then form the basis of a further trial to determine whether the inmate qualified as a violent sexual predator. Upon such a determination, the inmate would be subject to involuntary commitment at a medical facility until such time as his mental abnormality had changed and it was safe to release him.\" Id\". at 353. The court would then be required to conduct an annual review of the determination, and the inmate would always be allowed to petition for freedom under the same standards. The Supreme Court concluded that this process met previously established standards of constitutional substantive due process governing voluntary confinement, did not constitute double jeopardy because the proceedings were civil rather than criminal, and was not an ex post facto law for the same reason. \"Id\". at 353-371. In a following case, the United States Supreme Court clarified that the government must demonstrate that the inmate has at least a serious lack of ability to control his behavior. \"Kansas v. Crane\" 534 U.S. 407 (2002). The Supreme Court has also determined that Congress has the authority to pass a similar law affecting federal prisoners. \"United States v. Comstock\", 560 U.S. 126 (2010).\n\nTwenty states have civil commitment facilities, as of 2018.\n\nAs with civil commitment generally, civil confinement is a controversial implementation of state power. Detractors point to the prospect of indefinite detention without due process of law. Proponents cite public safety.\n\nState legislatures who have decided to adopt civil confinement statutes have expressed the intent of the laws in their enactments. One example is the state of Washington, which explained:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1083155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083155", "title": "Composting toilet", "text": "Composting toilet\n\nA composting toilet is a type of toilet that treats human excreta by a biological process called composting. This process leads to the decomposition of organic matter and turns human excreta into compost. It is carried out by microorganisms (mainly bacteria and fungi) under controlled aerobic conditions. Most composting toilets use no water for flushing and are therefore \"dry toilets\". \n\nIn many composting toilet designs, carbon additives such as sawdust, coconut coir, or peat moss is added after each use. This practice creates air pockets in the human excreta to promote aerobic decomposition. This also improves the carbon-to-nitrogen ratio and reduces potential odor. Most composting toilet systems rely on mesophilic composting. Longer retention time in the composting chamber also facilitates pathogen die-off. The end product can also be moved to a secondary system – usually another composting step – to allow more time for mesophilic composting to further reduce pathogens.\n\nComposting toilets, together with the secondary composting step, produce a humus-like endproduct that can be used to enrich soil if local regulations allow this. Some composting toilets have urine diversion systems in the toilet bowl to collect the urine separately and control excess moisture. A \"vermifilter toilet\" is a composting toilet with flushing water where earthworms are used to promote decomposition to compost.\n\nComposting toilets do not require a connection to septic tanks or sewer systems unlike flush toilets. Common applications include national parks, remote holiday cottages, ecotourism resorts, off-grid homes and rural areas in developing countries. \n\nThe term \"composting toilet\" is used quite loosely, and its meaning varies by country. For example, in Germany and Scandinavian countries, composting always refers to a predominantly aerobic process. This aerobic composting may take place with an increase in temperature due to microbial action, or without a temperature increase in the case of slow composting or cold composting. If earth worms are used (vermicomposting) then there is also no increase in temperature.\n\nComposting toilets differ from pit latrines and arborloos, which use less controlled decomposition and may not protect groundwater from nutrient or pathogen contamination or provide optimal nutrient recycling. They also differ from urine-diverting dry toilets (UDDTs) where pathogen reduction is achieved through dehydration (also known by the more precise term \"desiccation\") and where the feces collection vault is kept as dry as possible. Composting toilets aim to have a certain degree of moisture in the composting chamber.\n\nComposting toilets can be used to implement an ecological sanitation approach for resource recovery, and some people call their composting toilet designs \"ecosan toilets\" for that reason. However, this is not recommended as the two terms (i.e. composting and ecosan) are not identical.\n\nComposting toilets have also been called \"sawdust toilets\", which can be appropriate if the amount of aerobic composting taking place in the toilet's container is very limited. The \"Clivus multrum\" is a type of composting toilet which has a large composting chamber below the toilet seat and also receives undigested organic material to increase the carbon to nitrogen ratio. Alternatives with smaller composting chambers are called \"self-contained composting toilets\" since the composting chamber is part of the toilet unit itself. \n\nComposting toilets can be suitable in areas such as a rural area or a park that lacks a suitable water supply, sewers and sewage treatment. They can also help increase the resilience of existing sanitation systems in the face of possible natural disasters such as climate change, earthquakes or tsunami. Composting toilets can reduce or perhaps eliminate the need for a septic tank system to reduce environmental footprint (particularly when used in conjunction with an on-site greywater treatment system).\n\nThese types of toilets can be used for resource recovery by reusing sanitized feces and urine as fertilizer and soil conditioner for gardening or ornamental activities.\n\nA composting toilet consists of two elements: a place to sit or squat and a collection/composting unit. The composting unit consists of four main parts:\nMany composting toilets collect urine in the same chamber as feces, thus they do not divert urine. Adding small amounts of water that is used for anal cleansing is no problem for the composting toilet to handle.\n\nSome composting toilets divert urine (and water used for anal washing) to prevent the creation of anaerobic conditions that can result from over saturation of the compost, which leads to odors and vector problems. Offering a waterless urinal in addition to the toilet can help keep excess amounts of urine out of the composting chamber.\n\nThe composting chamber can be constructed above or below ground level. It can be inside a structure or include a separate superstructure.\n\nA drainage system removes leachate. Otherwise, excess moisture can cause anaerobic conditions and impede decomposition. Urine diversion can improve compost quality, since urine contains large amounts of ammonia that inhibits microbiological activity.\n\nComposting toilets greatly reduce human waste volumes through psychrophilic, thermophilic or mesophilic composting. Keeping the composting chamber insulated and warm protects the composting process from slowing due to low temperatures.\n\nThe following gases may be emitted during the composting process that takes place in composting toilets: hydrogen sulfide (HS), ammonia, nitrous oxide (NO) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). These gases can potentially lead to complaints about odours. Some methane may also be present, but it is not odorous.\n\nExcreta-derived compost recycles fecal nutrients, but it can carry and spread pathogens if the process of reuse of excreta is not done properly.\n\nInternal pathogen destruction rates are usually low, particularly helminth eggs, such as Ascaris eggs. This carries the risk of spreading disease if a proper system management is not in place. Compost from human excreta processed under only mesophilic conditions or taken directly from the compost chamber is not safe for food production. High temperatures or long composting times are required to kill helminth eggs, the hardiest of all pathogens. Helminth infections are common in many developing countries.\n\nIn thermophilic composting bacteria that thrive at temperatures of oxidize (break down) waste into its components, some of which are consumed in the process, reducing volume and eliminating potential pathogens. To destroy pathogens, thermophilic composting must heat the compost pile sufficiently, or enough time (1–2 years) must elapse since fresh material was added that biological activity has had the same pathogen removal effect.\n\nOne guideline claims that pathogen levels are reduced to a safe level by thermophilic composting at temperatures of 55 °C for at least two weeks or at 60 °C for one week. An alternative guideline claims that complete pathogen destruction may be achieved already if the entire compost heap reaches a temperature of for one hour, for one day, for one week or for one month, although others regard this as overly optimistic.\n\nFour main factors affect the decomposition process:\n\nHuman excreta and food waste do not provide optimum conditions for composting. Usually the water and nitrogen content is too high, particularly when urine is mixed with feces. Additives or \"bulking material\", such as wood chips, bark chips, sawdust, shredded dry leaves, ash and pieces of paper can absorb moisture. The additives improve pile aeration and increase the carbon to nitrogen ratio. Bulking material also covers feces and reduces insect access. Absent sufficient bulking material, the material may become too compact and form impermeable layers, which leads to anaerobic conditions and odour.\n\nLeachate removal controls moisture levels, which is necessary to ensure rapid, aerobic composting. Some commercial units include a urine-separator or urine-diverting system and/or a drain at the bottom of the composter for this purpose.\n\nMicrobial action also requires oxygen, typically from the air. Commercial systems provide ventilation that moves air from the bathroom, through the waste container, and out a vertical pipe, venting above the roof. This air movement (via convection or fan forced) passes carbon dioxide and odors.\n\nSome units require manual methods for periodic aeration of the solid mass such as rotating the composting chamber or pulling an \"aerator rake\" through the mass.\n\nCommercial units and construct-it-yourself systems are available. Variations include number of composting vaults, removable vault, urine diversion and active mixing/aeration.\n\nMost composting toilets use slow composting which is also called \"cold composting\". The compost heap is built up step by step over time.\n\nThe finished end product from \"slow\" composting toilets (\"moldering toilets\" or \"moldering privies\" in the US), is generally not free of pathogens. World Health Organization Guidelines from 2006 offer a framework for safe reuse of excreta, using a multiple barrier approach.\n\nSlow composting toilets employ a passive approach. Common applications involve modest and often seasonal use, such as remote trail networks. They are typically designed such that the materials deposited can be isolated from the operational part. The toilet can also be closed to allow further mesophilic composting. Slow composting toilets rely on long retention times for pathogen reduction and for decomposition of excreta or on the combination of time and/or the addition of red wriggler worms for vermi-composting. Worms can be introduced to accelerate composting. Some jurisdictions of the US consider these worms as invasive species.\n\n\"Self-contained\" composting toilets compost in a container within the toilet unit. They are slightly larger than a flush toilet, but use roughly the same floor space. Some units use fans for aeration, and optionally, heating elements to maintain optimum temperatures to hasten the composting process and to evaporate urine and other moisture. Operators of composting toilets commonly add a small amount of absorbent carbon material (such as untreated sawdust, coconut coir, peat moss) after each use to create air pockets to encourage aerobic processing, to absorb liquid and to create an odor barrier. This additive is sometimes referred to as \"bulking agent\". Some owner-operators use microbial \"starter\" cultures to ensure composting bacteria are in the process, although this is not critical.\n\nA \"vermifilter toilet\" is a composting toilet with flushing water where earthworms are used to promote decomposition to compost. It can be connected to a low-flush or a micro-flush toilet which uses about per use. Solids accumulate on the surface of the filter bed while liquid drains through the filter medium and is discharged from the reactor. The solids (feces and toilet paper) are aerobically digested by aerobic bacteria and composting earthworms into castings (humus), thereby significantly reducing the volume of organic material.\n\nSome units employ roll-away containers fitted with aerators, while others use sloped-bottom tanks.\n\nMaintenance is critical to ensure proper operation, including odor prevention. Maintenance tasks include: cleaning, servicing technical components such as fans and removal of compost, leachate and urine. Urine removal is only required for those types of composting toilets using urine diversion.\n\nOnce composting is complete (or more often), the compost must be removed from the unit. How often this occurs is a function of container size, usage and composting conditions, such as temperature. Active, hot composting may span months only while passive, cold composting may require years. Properly managed units yield output volumes of about 10% of inputs.\n\nThe material from composting toilets is a humus-like material, which can be suitable as a soil amendment for agriculture. Compost from residential composting toilets can be used in domestic gardens, and this is the main such use.\n\nEnriching soil with compost adds substantial nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, carbon and calcium. In this regard compost is equivalent to many fertilizers and manures purchased in garden stores. Compost from composting toilets has a higher nutrient availability than the dried feces that result from a urine-diverting dry toilet.\n\nUrine is typically present, although some is lost via leaching and evaporation. Urine can contain up to 90 percent of the residual nitrogen, up to 50 percent of the phosphorus, and up to 70 percent of the potassium.\n\nCompost derived from these toilets has in principle the same uses as compost derived from other organic waste products, such as sewage sludge or municipal organic waste. However, users of excreta-derived compost must consider the risk of pathogens.\n\nExcreta-derived compost may contain prescription pharmaceuticals. Such residues are also present in conventional wastewater treatment effluent. This could contaminate groundwater. Among the medications that have been found in groundwater in recent years are antibiotics, antidepressants, blood thinners, ACE inhibitors, calcium-channel blockers, digoxin, estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, Ibuprofen, caffeine, carbamazepine, fibrates and cholesterol-reducing medications. Between 30% and 95% of pharmaceuticals medications are excreted by the human body. Medications that are lipophilic (dissolved in fats) are more likely to reach groundwater by leaching from fecal wastes. Wastewater treatment plants remove an average of 60% of these medications. The percentage of medications degraded during composting of excreta has not yet been reported.\n\nUnlike pit latrines, composting toilets convert feces into a dry, odorless material, avoiding the issues surrounding liquid fecal sludge management (e.g. odor, insects and disposal). These toilets minimize the risk of water pollution through the safe containment of feces in above-ground vaults, which allows the toilets to be sited in locations where pit-based systems are not appropriate.\n\nHowever, composting toilets face higher capital costs (although lifecycle costs might be lower) and greater complexity (for instance, adding covering materials and managing moisture content).\n\nUnlike flush toilets, composting toilets do not dilute excreta and create wastewater streams which must be treated before disposal. On the other hand, wastewater treatment plants can centralize waste management for an entire community, with potentially greater efficiency.\n\nComposting toilets are more difficult to maintain than other types of dry toilets, like urine-diverting dry toilets (UDDT) with which they are often confused. This is due to the need to maintain a consistent and relatively high moisture content, as well as the relatively high complexity of composting toilets compared to UDDTs. Apart from that, composting toilets are quite similar to UDDTs, sharing many of the same advantages and disadvantages.\n\nBefore the flush toilet became accepted in the late 19th century in developed countries, some inventors, scientists and public health officials supported the use of \"dry earth closets\", a type of dry toilet with similarities to composting toilets, but the collection vessel for the human excreta was not designed to compost. Dry earth closets were invented by English clergyman Henry Moule, who dedicated his life to improving public sanitation after witnessing the cholera epidemics of 1849 and 1854. Impressed by the insalubrity of the houses, especially during the Great Stink in the summer of 1858, he invented what he called the 'dry earth system'.\n\nIn partnership with James Bannehr, he patented his device (No. 1316, dated 28 May 1860). Among his works bearing on the subject were \"The Advantages of the Dry Earth System \"(1868), \"The Impossibility overcome: or the Inoffensive, Safe, and Economical Disposal of the Refuse of Towns and Villages (\"1870), The \"Dry Earth System\" (1871), \"Town Refuse, the Remedy for Local Taxation\" (1872), and \"National Health and Wealth promoted by the general adoption of the Dry Earth System\" (1873).\n\nHis system was adopted in private houses, in rural districts, in military camps, in many hospitals, and extensively in the British Raj. Ultimately, however, it failed to gain public support as attention turned to the water-flushed toilet connected to a sewer system.\n\nIn Germany, a similar dry toilet with a peat dispenser was marketed until after the second World War (it was called \"Metroclo\" and was manufactured by Gefinal, Berlin).\n\nThe International Organization for Standardization (ISO) is currently preparing a \"management standard\". As of 2015 this was in a draft state as ISO 24521, under the heading \"Activities relating to drinking water and wastewater services — Guidelines for the management of basic onsite domestic wastewater services\". The standard is meant to be used in conjunction with ISO 24511. It deals with toilets (including composting toilets) and toilet waste. The guidelines are applicable to basic wastewater systems and include the complete domestic wastewater cycle, such as planning, usability, operation and maintenance, disposal, reuse and health.\n\nThe International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials (IAPMO) is a plumbing and mechanical code structure adopted by many developed countries. It recently proposed an addition to its \"Green Plumbing Mechanical Code Supplement\" that, \"...outlines performance criteria for site built composting toilets with and without urine diversion and manufactured composting toilets.\" If adopted, this composting and urine diversion toilet code (the first of its kind in the United States) will appear in the 2015 edition of the Green Supplement to the Uniform Plumbing Code.\n\nNo performance standards for composting toilets are universally accepted in the US. Seven jurisdictions in North America use \"American National Standard/NSF International Standard ANSI/NSF 41-1998: Non-Liquid Saturated Treatment Systems\". An updated version was published in 2011. Systems might also be listed with the Canadian Standards Association, cETL-US, and other standards programs.\n\nRegarding byproduct regulation, several US states permit disposal of solids from composting toilets (usually a distinction between different types of dry toilets is not made) by burial, with varying or no minimum depth mandates (as little as 6 inches). For instance:\nThe Environmental Protection Agency has no jurisdiction over the byproducts of a dry toilet as long as excreta are not referred to as \"fertilizer\" (but instead simply a material that is being disposed of). Federal rule 503, known colloquially as the \"EPA Biosolids rule\" or the \"EPA sludge rule\" applies only to fertilizer. Thus, individual states regulate composting toilets.\n\nThe regulations for composting toilets and other forms of dry toilets in Germany vary from state to state and from one application to another (e.g. use in allotment gardens or use in family homes and settlements). In the different states of Germany, it is the \"Landesbauordnung\" (translates to \"state civil engineering regulations\") of the respective state that regulates the use of such alternative toilets. Most of them stipulate the use of flush toilets, however there are many exceptions, for example in the states of Hamburg, Lower Saxony, Bavaria, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Rhineland-Palatinate, Saxony-Anhalt and Thuringia. These generally make exceptions for the use of composting toilets in homes provided that there are no concerns for public health.\n\nRegulations governing the use of compost and urine from composting toilets is less clear in Germany but it seems generally allowed provided it is used on one's own property and not sold to third parties.\n\nNumerous sparsely settled villages in rural areas in Finland are not connected to municipal water supply or sewer networks, requiring homeowners to operate their own systems. Individual private wells, i.e. shallow dug wells or boreholes in the bedrock, are often used for water supply, and many homeowners have opted for composting toilets. In addition, these toilets are common at holiday homes, often located near sensitive water bodies. For these reasons, many manufacturers of composting toilets are based in Finland, including Biolan, Ekolet, Kekkilä, Pikkuvihreä and Raita Environment.\n\nEstimates made by leading Finnish composting toilet manufacturers and the Global Dry Toilet Association of Finland provided the following 2014 figures for composting toilet use in Finland:\n\nComposting toilets have been successfully installed in houses with up to four floors. An estimate from 2008 put the number of composting toilets in households in Germany at 500. Most of these residences are also connected to a sewer system; the composting toilet was not installed due to a lack of sewer system but for other reasons, mainly because of an \"ecological mindset\" of the owners.\n\nIn Germany and Austria, composting toilets and other types of dry toilets have been installed in single and multi-family houses (e.g. Hamburg, Freiburg, Berlin), ecological settlements (e.g. Hamburg-Allemöhe, Hamburg-Braamwisch, Kiel-Hassee, Bielefeld-Waldquelle, Wien-Gänserndorf) and in public buildings (e.g. Ökohaus Rostock, VHS-Ökostation Stuttgart-Wartberg, public toilets in recreational areas, restaurants and huts in the Alps, house boats and forest Kindergartens).\n\nThe ecological settlement in Hamburg-Allermöhe has had composting toilets since 1982. The settlement of 36 single-family houses with approximately 140 inhabitants uses composting toilets, rainwater harvesting and constructed wetlands. Composting toilets save about 40 litres of water per capita per day compared to a conventional flush toilet (10 liter per flush), which adds up to 2,044 m³ water savings per year for the whole settlement.\n\nSlow composting toilets have been installed by the Green Mountain Club in Vermont's woodlands. They employ multiple vaults (called cribs) and a movable building. When one of the vaults fills, the building is moved over an empty vault. The full vault is left untouched for as long as possible (up to three years) before it is emptied. The large surface area and exposure to air currents can cause the pile to dry out. To counteract this, signs instruct users to urinate in the toilet. The club also uses pit latrines and simple bucket toilets with woodchips and external composting and directs users to urinate in the forest to prevent odiferous anaerobic conditions.\n\nComposting toilets with a large composting container (of the type Clivus Multrum and derivations of it) are popular in US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Sweden. They can be bought and installed as commercial products, as designs for self builders or as \"design derivatives\" which are marketed under various names. It has been estimated that approximately 10,000 such toilets might be in use worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16705894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16705894", "title": "Dental anesthesiology", "text": "Dental anesthesiology\n\nDental anesthesiology (or dental anaesthesiology) is the specialty of dentistry that deals with the management of pain through the use of advanced local and general anesthesia techniques.\n\nA dentist anesthesiologist is a dentist who has successfully completed an accredited postdoctoral anesthesiology residency program of three or more years duration, in accord with Commission on Dental Accreditation’s Standards for Dental Anesthesiology Residency Programs, and/or meets the eligibility requirements for examination by the American Dental Board of Anesthesiology. \n\nThe American Dental Board of Anesthesiology examines and certifies dentists who complete an accredited program of anesthesiology training in the United States or Canada. Dentists may then apply for Board Certification through the ADBA which requires ongoing and continual post-graduate education for maintenance.\n\nThe American Society of Dentist Anesthesiologists is the only organization that represents dentists with three or more years of anesthesiology training.\n\nDental anesthesiology is a specialty of dentistry recognized by the American Board of Dental Specialties. \nhttp://dentalspecialties.org\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3275308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3275308", "title": "Dry enema", "text": "Dry enema\n\nA dry enema is an alternative technique for cleansing the human rectum either for reasons of health, or for sexual hygiene. It is accomplished by squirting a small amount of sterile lubricant into the rectum, resulting in a bowel movement more quickly and with less violence than can be achieved by an oral laxative.\n\nIt is called \"dry\" by contrast to the more usual wet enema, because no water is used.\n\nA rudimentary form of \"dry\" enema is the use of a non-medicated glycerin suppository. However, due to the relative hardiness of the suppository - necessary for its insertion into the human body - before the glycerin can act, it must be melted by the heat of the body, and hence it does not take effect for up to an hour. Often the hygroscopic glycerin irritates the sensitive membranes of the rectum resulting in forceful expulsion of the suppository without any laxative effects.\n\nA quicker form of the dry enema utilizes the injection of a small amount of water-based lubricant such as KY Jelly into the rectum via a non-hypodermic syringe, such as an oral syringe, or from some other source. Then again since the glycerin itself is an effective producer of the desired contraction of the colonic muscles it is simpler - and more easily controlled - to introduce 5 - 10 cc of glycerin directly into the rectum. Specialist syringes are available for this purpose but are hard to find. An alternative is to use an enema nozzle which has an intake end which is compatible with a standard hypodermic syringe. This allows the immediate injection of the 5-10 ccs. required, and results can be expected in 2–4 minutes. Another alternative is to use a normal 5 or 10cc syringe inserted directly into the anus. This needs to be done carefully to avoid scratching the anal passage. The passage should be lubricated with sorbolene cream or any water-based lubricant. Only a syringe with a Luer-slip should be used, not a Luer-lock tip (a syringe end molded to take a screw-on needle). Penetration is better performed by the patient to eliminate any pain. The patient should be encouraged to wait at least 15 minutes in order that peristalsis can reach the full length of the rectum, but many will find this impossible and this treatment should therefore be applied only when the facilities to evacuate are nearby.\n\nThe usual amount of lubricant applied is about 2 tsp (10 cc), which will produce a movement in 30 minutes or less. The movement will be produced in a compact body, rather than in the more copious liquid form produced by a wet enema; and since no water is used, none will be retained higher up in the colon, to be expelled at a later, and possibly inconvenient, time.\n\nA further advantage of this technique for sexual hygiene is that any slight remaining traces of fecal material will - due to the presence of the lubricant - tend to adhere to the wall of the rectum rather than to any foreign object which may subsequently be inserted.\n"}
{"id": "47016616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47016616", "title": "Electronic cigarette aerosol and liquid", "text": "Electronic cigarette aerosol and liquid\n\nE-liquid is the mixture used in electronic cigarettes. The main ingredients in the e-liquid usually are propylene glycol, glycerin, nicotine, and flavorings. However, there are e-liquids sold without propylene glycol, nicotine, or flavors. The liquid typically contains 95% propylene glycol and glycerin. Propylene glycol and glycerine are used to produce the vapor while the flavoring provides the taste and aroma. The flavorings may be natural or artificial. About 8,000 flavors exist as of 2014. There are many e-liquids manufacturers in the USA and worldwide. While there are currently no US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) manufacturing standards for e-liquid, the FDA has proposed regulations that were expected to be finalized in late 2015. Industry standards have been created and published by the American E-liquid Manufacturing Standards Association (AEMSA).\n\nThe aerosol of electronic cigarettes is generated when the e-liquid reaches a temperature of roughly 100–250 °C within a chamber.\nThe user inhales the aerosol, commonly called vapor, rather than cigarette smoke. The aerosol provides a flavor and feel similar to tobacco smoking. In physics, a vapor is a substance in the gas phase whereas an aerosol is a suspension of tiny particles of liquid, solid or both within a gas. Vapor from an e-cigarette simulates tobacco smoke, but the process of burning tobacco does not occur. The aerosol is made-up of liquid sub-micron particles of condensed vapor, which mostly consist of propylene glycol, glycerol, water, flavorings, nicotine, and other chemicals. The various chemicals in the aerosol give rise to many issues concerning the safety of electronic cigarettes that have been much discussed. After a puff, inhalation of the aerosol travels from the device into the mouth and lungs. A 2014 review found that the particles emitted by e-cigarettes are comparable in size and number to particles in cigarette smoke, with the majority of them in the ultrafine range. The particles are of the ultrafine size which can go deep in the lungs and then into the systemic circulation. A 2014 review said local pulmonary toxicity may occur because metal nanoparticles can deposit in the lungs. Others show that the quantities of metals emitted are minimal and permissible by medicinal standards.\nAfter the aerosol is inhaled, it is exhaled. Emissions from electronic cigarettes are not comparable to environmental pollution or cigarette smoke as their nature and chemical composition are completely different. The particles are larger, with the mean size being 600 nm in inhaled aerosol and 300 nm in exhaled vapor. Bystanders are exposed to these particles from exhaled e-cigarette vapor. There is a concern that some of the mainstream vapor exhaled by e-cigarette users can be inhaled by bystanders, particularly indoors, and have significant adverse effects. Since e-cigarettes involve an aerosolization process, it is suggested that no meaningful amounts of carbon monoxide are emitted. Thus, cardiocirculatory effects caused by carbon monoxide are not likely. E-cigarette use by an expectant parent might lead to inadvertent health risks to offspring. E-cigarettes pose many safety concerns to children. For example, indoor surfaces can accumulate nicotine where e-cigarettes were used, which may be inhaled by children, particularly youngsters, long after they were used.\n\nThe vapor can contain nicotine and usually contains vegetable glycerin, propylene glycol, flavors and aroma transporters. The nicotine levels in the vapor varies either from puff-to-puff or among products of the same company. A 2015 report commissioned by Public Health England concluded that e-cigarettes \"release negligible levels of nicotine into ambient air\". E-cigarettes without nicotine are also available. The vapor may also contain tiny amounts of toxicants, carcinogens, and heavy metals. Contamination with various chemicals has been identified. E-cigarette makers do not fully disclose information on the chemicals that can be released or synthesized during use. The metals have been found in trace amounts in the vapor, some of them at higher amounts than in cigarette smoke. The peak concentration of nicotine delivered by e-cigarette use is comparable to that produced by conventional cigarette smoking.\nDiacetyl is found in the aerosol as well as in the air around people who vape.\n\nE-liquid, e-fluid, or e-juice is the mixture used in vapor products including e-cigarettes. E-Liquids come in many variations, including different nicotine strengths and many different flavors. The main ingredients are propylene glycol, glycerine, and flavorings; and most often, nicotine in liquid form. The liquid typically contains 95% propylene glycol and glycerin, and the remaining 5% being flavorings and nicotine. E-liquid can be made with or without nicotine, with >90% of e-liquids containing some level of nicotine. The most regularly used base carrier chemical is propylene glycol with or without glycerin. E-liquid containing glycerin and water made without propylene glycol are also sold. Unless clearly stated, it is uncertain whether the nicotine used in e-liquid is manufactured using a United States Pharmacopeia (USP) grade nicotine, a tobacco plant extract, tobacco dust or a synthetic nicotine. Most e-cigarette liquids contain nicotine, but the level of nicotine varies depending on user-preference and manufacturers. Although some e-juice is nicotine-free, surveys demonstrate that 97% of responders use products that contain nicotine. A 2015 review suggests that 1% of users use liquid without nicotine.\n\nDiacetyl, acetylpropionyl, and acetoin and are used as a flavoring agents to give a buttery or caramel flavor.\n\nThe primary parts that make up an e-cigarette are a mouthpiece, a cartridge (tank), a heating element/atomizer, a microprocessor, a lithium based battery, and possibly a LED light on the end. An atomizer comprises a small heating element that vaporizes e-liquid and wicking material that draws liquid onto the coil. When the user pushes a button. or inhales a pressure sensor activates the heating element that atomizes the liquid solution; The e-liquid reaches a temperature of roughly 100–250 °C within a chamber to create an aerosolized vapor. The user inhales the aerosol, commonly called vapor, rather than cigarette smoke. The aerosol provides a flavor and feel similar to tobacco smoking. However, variable voltage devices can raise the temperature where the user adjusts the vapor. The vapor contains similar chemicals to the e-liquid which vary in composition and concentration across and within manufacturers.\n\nE-cigarettes produce particles, in the form of an aerosol. In physics, a vapor is a substance in the gas phase whereas an aerosol is a suspension of tiny particles of liquid, solid or both within a gas. The aerosol is made-up of liquid sub-micron particles of condensed vapor, which mostly consist of propylene glycol, glycerol, water, flavorings, nicotine, and other chemicals. This aerosol that is produces resembles cigarette smoke. After a puff, inhalation of the aerosol travels from the device into the mouth and lungs.\n\nA 2014 review found that the particles emitted by e-cigarettes are comparable in size and number to particles in cigarette smoke, with the majority of them in the ultrafine range. The ultrafine particles can go deep in the lungs and then into the systemic circulation. Pulmonary toxicity may occur because metal nanoparticles can deposit in the lungs. The review also found that fine particles can be chemically intricate and not uniform, and what a particle is made of, the exact harmful elements, and the importance of the size of the particle is mostly unknown. They found that because these things are uncertain, it is not clear whether the ultrafine particles in e-cigarette vapor have health effects similar to those produced by traditional cigarettes.\n\nA 2014 WHO report found e-cigarettes release a lower level of particles than traditional cigarettes. Comparable to a traditional cigarette, e-cigarette particles are tiny enough to enter the alveoli, enabling nicotine absorption. E-cigarettes companies assert that the particulates produced by an e-cigarette are too tiny to be deposited in the alveoli. Exactly what comprises the vapor varies in composition and concentration across and within manufacturers. Different devices generate different particle sizes and cause different depositions in the respiratory tract, even from the same nicotine liquid. Reports in the literature have shown respiratory and cardiovascular effects by these smaller size particles, suggesting a possible health concern.\n\nAfter the aerosol is inhaled, it is exhaled. Emissions from electronic cigarettes are not comparable to environmental pollution or cigarette smoke as their nature and chemical composition are completely different. The particles are larger, with the mean size being 600 nm in inhaled aerosol and 300 nm in exhaled vapor. The exhaled aerosol particle concentration is 5 times lower from an e-cigarette than from a combustible tobacco cigarette. The density of particles in the vapor is lower than in cigarette smoke by a factor of between 6 and 880 times lower.\n\nFor particulate matter emissions, e-cigarettes slightly exceeded the WHO guidelines, but emissions were 15 times less than traditional cigarette use. In January 2014, the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease stated \"Adverse health effects for exposed third parties (second-hand exposure) cannot be excluded because the use of electronic cigarettes leads to emission of fine and ultrafine inhalable liquid particles, nicotine and cancer-causing substances into indoor air.\" The dense vapor consists of liquid sub-micron droplets.\n\nSince e-cigarettes have not been widely used long enough for evaluation, the long-term health effects from the second-hand vapor are not known. There is insufficient data to determine the impact on public health from e-cigarettes. The potential harm to bystanders from e-cigarettes is unknown. This is because no long-term data is available.\n\nSince e-cigarettes do not burn (or contain) tobacco, no side-stream smoke or any cigarette smoke is produced. Only what is exhaled by e-cigarettes users enters the surrounding air. Exhaled vapor consists of nicotine and some other particles, primarily consisting of flavors, aroma transporters, glycerin and propylene glycol. Bystanders are exposed to these particles from exhaled e-cigarette vapor. A mixture of harmful substances, particularly nicotine, ultrafine particles, and volatile organic compounds can be exhaled into the air. The liquid particles condenses into a viewable fog. The vapor is in the air for a short time, with a half-life of about 10 seconds; traditional cigarette smoke is in the air 100 times longer. This is because of fast revaporization at room temperature.\n\nThere is a concern that some of the mainstream vapor exhaled by e-cigarette users can be inhaled by bystanders, particularly indoors, and have significant adverse effects. Since e-cigarettes involve an aerosolization process, it is suggested that no meaningful amounts of carbon monoxide are emitted. Thus, cardiocirculatory effects caused by carbon monoxide are not likely. However, in an experimental study, e-cigarettes increased levels of carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in the surrounding air.\n\nE-cigarettes used in indoor environments can put at risk nonsmokers to elevated levels of nicotine and aerosol emissions. Nonsmokers exposed to e-cigarette aerosol produced by a machine and pumped into a room were found to have detectable levels of the nicotine metabolite cotinine in their blood. The same study stated that 80% of nicotine is normally absorbed by the user, so these results may be higher than in actual second hand exposure. In 2015 a report commissioned by Public Health England concluded that e-cigarettes \"release negligible levels of nicotine into ambient air with no identified health risks to bystanders\".\n\nA 2014 review of limited data concluded this vapor can cause indoor air pollution and is not just water vapor as is frequently stated in the advertising of e-cigarettes. A 2014 practice guideline by NPS MedicineWise states, \"Although data on health effects of passive vapour are currently lacking, the risks are argued to be small, but claims that e-cigarettes emit only water vapour are nevertheless incorrect. Serum cotinine levels (a metabolite of nicotine) have been found to be similar in bystanders exposed to either e-cigarette vapour or cigarette smoke.\" The 2015 California Department of Public Health has reported that \"Mainstream and second hand e-cigarette aerosol has been found to contain at least ten chemicals that are on California's Proposition 65 list of chemicals known to cause cancer, birth defects, or other reproductive harm.\" However, it has been demonstrated that e-cigarettes causes nonusers to be exposed to nicotine but not to tobacco-related combustion toxicants.\n\nA white paper published in 2014 by the American Industrial Hygiene Association concluded e-cigarettes emit airborne contaminants that may be inhaled by the user and those nearby. They urged indoors restrictions similar to smoking bans, until research has shown the aerosol has no risk of harm. A 2014 review indicated that the levels of inhaled contaminants from the e-cigarette vapor are not of significant health concern for human exposures by the standards used in workplaces to ensure safety. The use of e-cigarettes in a smoke-free area could expose non-users to toxins. The effect on bystanders would likely be much less harmful than traditional cigarettes.\n\n2014 WHO report stated passive exposure was as a concern, indicating that current evidence is insufficient to determine whether the levels of exhaled vapor are safe to involuntarily exposed bystanders. The report stated that \"it is unknown if the increased exposure to toxicants and particles in exhaled aerosol will lead to an increased risk of disease and death among bystanders.\" The British Medical Association (BMA) reported in 2013 that there are \"concerns that the use of e-cigarettes could threaten the norm of not smoking in public places and workplaces.\"\n\n, the only clinical study currently published evaluating the respiratory effects of passive vaping found no adverse effects were detected. A 2014 review found it is safe to infer that their effects on bystanders are minimal in comparison to traditional cigarettes. A E-cigarette vapor has notably fewer toxicants than cigarette smoke and is likely to pose less harm to users or bystanders.\n\nE-cigarette use by a parent might lead to inadvertent health risks to offspring. E-cigarettes pose many safety concerns to children. For example, indoor surfaces can accumulate nicotine where e-cigarettes were used, which may be inhaled by children, particularly youngsters, long after they were used. A policy statement by the American Association for Cancer Research and the American Society of Clinical Oncology has reported that \"Third-hand exposure occurs when nicotine and other chemicals from second-hand aerosol deposit on surfaces, exposing people through touch, ingestion, and inhalation\". Public health England, looking at the available research said the amount of nicotine deposited was low and that an infant would have to lick 30 square meters to be exposed to 1 mg of nicotine. The statement noted there are no published studies of third hand exposure from e-cigarettes, however initial data suggests that nicotine from e-cigarettes may stick to surfaces and would be hard to remove.\n\nThe e-liquid is sold in bottles or pre-filled disposable cartridges, or as a kit for consumers to make their own e-juices. Some vendors of e-liquids, offer options to change the amounts of flavorings or nicotine strengths, and build each bottle customized for the purchaser. E-liquids are made with various tobacco, fruit, and other flavors, as well as variable nicotine concentrations (including nicotine-free versions). The standard notation \"mg/mL\" is often used on labels to denote nicotine concentration, and is sometimes shortened to \"mg\". In surveys of regular e-cigarette users, the most popular e-liquids had a nicotine content of 18 mg/mL, and the preferred flavors were largely tobacco, mint and fruit. A cartridge may contain 0 to 20 mg of nicotine. EU regulations cap the concentration of nicotine in e-liquid at a maximum of 20 mg/mL. A refill bottle can contain up to 1 g of nicotine. Refill liquids are often sold in the size range from 15 to 30 mL. One cartridge may typically last as long as one pack of cigarettes. Some liquids without flavoring is also sold. The flavorings may be natural or artificial. There is even certified organic liquid. About 8,000 flavors exist as of 2014. A user does not normally consume a whole cartridge in a single session. Most e-liquids are produced by a few manufacturers in China, the US and Europe. An e-cigarette user will usually obtain 300 to 500 puffs per mL of liquid.\n\nThe two most common e-liquid bases are propylene glycol (PG) and vegetable glycerin (VG). Propylene glycol is tasteless and odorless, and therefore it doesn't affect the flavor of the e-liquid. It is known, however, to cause allergic reactions in some users, and in such case it is advised to stop the use immediately. Vegetable glycerin, on the other hand, is a lot thicker in consistency, and it doesn't cause allergic reactions. It also produces significantly more vapor, which has a slight sweet taste.\n\nE-liquids are manufactured by many producers, both in the US and across the world. First tier manufacturers use lab suits, gloves, hair covers, inside of certified clean rooms with air filtration similar to pharmaceutical-grade production areas.\n\nStandards for e-liquid manufacturing have been created by American E-liquid Manufacturing Standards Association (AEMSA), which is trade association dedicated to creating responsible and sustainable standards for the safe manufacturing of e-liquids used in vapor products. AEMSA has published a comprehensive list standards and best known methods, which are openly available for use by any manufacturer of e-Liquids. The AEMSA standards cover nicotine, ingredients, sanitary manufacturing rooms, safety packaging, age restrictions, and labeling.\n\nThere are no current governmental or US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) manufacturing standards for e-liquid. The FDA has sought to regulate e-liquid through use of the Tobacco Control Act, passed into law in 2009. In April 2014, the FDA issued its \"Deeming\" proposals for public comment, which would cover e-liquids manufacturing. The Final Rule, (in final form) giving the FDA authority to regulate e-liquids was released on May 5, 2016.\n\nThere is a limit in the UK on the nicotine content, meaning the nicotine strength of any e-liquid cannot exceed 20 mg/mL (2.0%).\n"}
{"id": "24025062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24025062", "title": "European Pharmaceutical Students' Association", "text": "European Pharmaceutical Students' Association\n\nThe European Pharmaceutical Students' Association (EPSA) is a non-profit, non-governmental, non-political and non-religious association which represents 45 Pharmacy Students' Associations from 37 countries, representing around 100.000 pharmacy students all around Europe. Its main objective is \"to develop the interests and opinions of European pharmacy students and to encourage contact and collaboration between them\". Actually, EPSA's motto '\"Bringing Pharmacy, Knowledge and Students Together\" reflects its will to promote the ideas and opinions of all the students of Pharmacy in Europe in order to improve the Education, the Pharmaceutical Profession and the Scientific Advances regarding Pharmacy.\nEPSA has its headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, in PGEU's offices. The Vice President of External Affairs works permanently there, collaborating with the Pharmaceutical Group of the European Union in the promotion of the role of the pharmacist as key actor in public health. Before being settled in Brussels, EPSA had its headquarters in Leiden, The Netherlands.\n\nIn 1978, the French Pharmacy Students' Association, ANEPF, invited students from other European countries to their Annual Congress in Nancy. The reason for this was to discuss the forthcoming European Community directives on the mutual recognition of pharmacy degrees and to compare studies between different countries. However, it turned out that this was more difficult than expected and required a longer time to be done. All participants expressed the need of further discussion between them. Therefore, it was proposed to the International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation, IPSF, to establish a European Sub-Committee (ESC) to discuss this, something which was done later on that year in the IPSF Annual Congress held in Edinburgh, United Kingdom.\n\nThe European Sub-Committee became independent 4 years later in 1982, changing its name to the European Pharmaceutical Students' Committee and was officially registered at the Tribunal d' Illkirch in France. The main purpose of this association was to work for the mutual recognition of pharmacy qualifications within Europe thus facilitating pharmacists, free movement.\n\nEPSA got its present name ten years after its independence at the 15th Annual Congress in Helsinki, Finland, and became official after the 16th Annual Congress in Tübingen, Germany, in 1993.\n\nAccording to the Terms of Reference and Standing Orders (TORSO), the highest decision-making body in EPSA is the General Assembly. General Assemblies are held twice a year, first during the Annual Congress in April, and then during the Autumn Assembly in October. This ensures a smooth running of the association whilst taking important decisions, including TORSO changes.\nThe Ordinary Members of EPSA have the right to vote in any ballot of the association. In order to do it is necessary for Ordinary Members to present Annual Congress and Autumn Assembly Liaison Secretaries Reports and to pay their membership fees.\n\nThe EPSA Team is elected every year at EPSA's Annual Congress. Led by the Executive, the EPSA Team cooperates all year with EPSA's member organisations in order to achieve EPSA goals.\n\nThe EPSA Executive manages the affairs of the association, and leads the work made in the name of EPSA on multiple fields.\n\nEuropean Sub-Committee (ESC) began with only one executive member, the chairperson. However, as the work load increased the need for additional board members became apparent. The ESC board was originally chosen at IPSF Congress. However, from 1982 onward, due to IPSF and ECS division, the Executive was chosen for the first time in an ESC Congress. Until 1998, the Board (composed of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Treasurer) was elected at the congress, and the rest of the Executive appointed. From 1998 onwards the entire Executive was elected at the congress, and was assisted by a number of sub-committees.\n\nAfter that, several changes were made in the Executive with the introduction of Vice-Presidents and Immediate Past President positions. The latest changes applied at Kraków's Annual Congress in 2010 after EPSA's restructuring. The actual structure of EPSA Executive is composed of 8 elected members and one appointed Immediate Past President. \n\nThe Educational Department is supervised by the Vice-President of Education, and consists of five coordinators. Each of them is responsible of leading the projects that fall under their domain.\n\nEPSA has three coordinators who are responsible for taking care of the administrative and technical aspects of the association, as well as helping the VP of Public Relations in the communication field.\n\nThis brand new department was established during the Annual Congress in Budapest in 2014. Its coordinators are responsible for a good communication with the Reception Committees and the Alumni group.\n\nEPSA has two coordinators who are working close together with the Vice President of External Affairs to ensure sustainable incomes to EPSA.\n\nThe Mobility Department has one coordinator, who leads the IMP project.\n\nThe Parliamentary Council is the supervising Authority of the Association, ensuring that all decisions taken are done according to the association's regulations and to intervene if not so. The Parliamentary Council is composed of three members and one of them is elected as Parliamentarian. Each member should be from a different country.\n\nThe EPSA accounts shall be audited by the Audit Committee, which should present a statement to General Assembly. Audit Committee consists of at least two persons which are appointed by Parliamentary Council and should be preferably from different countries.\n\nThe EPSA Annual Congress is the most important activity in all EPSA calendar. This is an event organized by both EPSA and the hosting association. In order to ensure its success, a Reception Committee (RC) is established, which chaired by the RC Chairperson, who is appointed as an EPSA Official and invited to Executive meetings with the aim of ensuring good communication between the EPSA team and the RC and hence a successful event.\n\nEPSA Liaison Secretaries are elected or appointed by Member Organizations and their main task is to insure the implementation of EPSA projects at a local level and establish the connection between the executive of the National Organization and EPSA Executive. Liaison Secretaries are Official Delegates with voting rights at General Assembly.\n\nThe IMP Coordinator Board works to benefit the development of the EPSA Individual Mobility Project (IMP) as a whole. It consists of a Central IMP Coordinator and of National/Local IMP Coordinators as representatives of every EPSA member organization that is participating in the Individual Mobility Project.\nThe IMP Central Coordinator is elected, as the other EPSA officials, in EPSA General Assembly while the National/Local IMP Coordinators are elected (or appointed) by the National/Local Association they are representing.\n\nThe EPSA Ordinary Member Organizations are National Pharmaceutical Students' Associations of countries within the geographical entity of Europe, which are recognised by the Council of Europe as independent countries. EPSA has also Associate Members – pharmaceutical students association that do not represent the majority of faculties in a country.\nEPSA has 25 Ordinary Members and 8 Associate Members, which are:\n\nThe Board of Trustees is made up of professionals from the pharmaceutical field that assist the EPSA Executive with their expertise and contacts.\n\nThe Honorary Life Membership is granted to persons who have done remarkable work for the Association. Thanks to their work EPSA has improved substantially to meet its aims with professionalism and excellence. The Honorary Life Members (HLMs) are elected by General Assembly with a two-thirds majority.\n\nThe annual EPSA congress is the biggest and most important event in the EPSA calendar and takes place usually in April. It is where all EPSA members have the opportunity to meet and discuss EPSA and the Pharmacy Profession in General. The EPSA Annual Congress gathers an Educational Program (workshops and trainings), Social Program and the first EPSA General Assembly of the year is held during this event. EPSA Annual Congress is 7 days and 6 nights long. Toulouse, France was elected as the host city for the next Annual Congress in 2015.\nThis is a chance for delegates from all the member organizations to come together to refuel their spirits and enthusiasm for the coming year. During the Annual Congress the new team of EPSA is elected for a one-year mandate by Ordinary Members of EPSA.\n\nThe EPSA Autumn Assembly is EPSA's second most important event and takes place usually in October. The purpose of the EPSA Autumn Assembly is to provide an opportunity for EPSA members to review the work of the association halfway through the year and at the same time to renew motivation and commitment to EPSA. The second EPSA General Assembly of the year is held during Autumn Assembly.\nFrom 2004 to 2008, the EPSA Autumn Assembly was organised in collaboration with ESCP (European Society of Clinical Pharmacy) in an association of three events: the EPSA Annual 2nd Congress, the EPSA/ESCP Student Symposium and the ESCP Symposium.\nIn the year of 2009 EPSA organised for the first time this event in collaboration with DIA (Drug Information Association).\nThe next Autumn Assembly will be held in St. Julians, Malta, in October 2015.\n\nThe Summer University is the third main EPSA event of the year and takes place usually in the end of July. This event is characterized by an educational and social agenda. Unlike the others events of EPSA already mentioned, during the Summer University is not held any EPSA General Assembly. The 17th edition of the Summer University will take place in the beautiful city of Lisbon, in Portugal, in July 2015.\n\nThe Annual Reception (AR) is organised every year usually in February in Brussels, Belgium, in EPSA headquarters. The main aim of this event is for the EPSA team to present their work and projects to EPSA Board of Trustees, Partners and any institution which may be interested in EPSA's work. This event is structured in such a way as to have a round table discussion, chaired by EPSA President, in order to improve EPSA work and projects with the experience and ideas of these professionals.\nThe topic of Annual Reception is chosen every year by EPSA Executive.\n\nThe WHSS is a multi-professional four-day conference bringing together healthcare students from all around the world.\nThe first joint symposium of world healthcare students took place in Malta from 7 to 12 November 2005. The symposium brought together 230 medical, pharmacy and nursing students from 42 countries in an international forum. The conference was intended to generate understanding and discussion between the professions, develop skills and awareness of concepts in multidisciplinary settings, and to create student advocates for a cooperative multidisciplinary approach to patient centred care to optimise health outcomes.\nThere are a number of groups who work together to make this event happen which includes, obviously, EPSA. The other students' associations involved are: International Federation of Medical Students' Associations (IFMSA), International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation (IPSF), European Nursing Students' Association (ENSA), International Council of Nurses – Student Network (ICN-SN) and European Medical Students' Association (EMSA).\nLast WHSS was held in November 2013, in Lausanne, Switzerland.\n\nThe EPSA Newsletter is the official EPSA publication. It is published three times a year, and is distributed to all EPSA members, contact organizations and sponsors. The Newsletter contains articles from the EPSA Officials, members and professionals and aims to spread EPSA's latest developments regarding its projects and to exchange knowledge and experiences between them. Including a broad variety of topics, it also contributes to the communication between students of member countries, who want to share ideas, comments and experiences. Additionally, it serves to highlight the important issues for pharmacy students across Europe and to pass information about future events.\nEach EPSA member association receives copies of the Newsletter that are further distributed to students across Europe, as well as to EPSA Observers and professional associations, in a total of 400 copies per edition.\n\nThe EPSA Monthly Dose aims to bring relevant and useful updates about EPSA to students that are not very familiar with the association. It is published every month by the Publications Coordinator and contains information about relevant projects in EPSA and its member associations, upcoming events and recently published blog articles and publications. The Monthly Dose is sent by e-mail to all students, teachers and professionals that subscribe EPSA News e-group on the EPSA website and is also available as a printed version in the European faculties of pharmacy.\n\nThe Report Booklet is published every year and it aims to present the conclusions taken by EPSA team during its mandate. This includes the conclusions taken from workshops, together with the result of the EPSA Annual Questionnaire and Statements of Opinion. The Immediate Past President is responsible to make this compilation and publish it.\nIt is sent out to all students, professional and governmental organisations, EPSA members and all the faculties of pharmacy in Europe. As an official document of the association it states what European Pharmacy Students believe regarding a specific issue.\n\nEPSA also uses several social networks daily, such as Facebook, Twitter, and the EPSA blog to reach its students and provide them with updated information about its activities.\n\nEvery year, the EPSA Annual Topic is voted by the General Assembly at the Annual Congress. The main purpose for the Annual Topic is to provide accurate information to European students for them to be able to gain valuable knowledge on the topic. To achieve this level of knowledge, EPSA will provide them with conferences by international speakers throughout the year, using the Annual Topic as a connecting thread between its events. All of the important information will be summarized in the Report Booklet at the end of the year.\nThis year 2010/2011, the Annual Topic voted at Kraków Annual Congress is \"Pharmacovigilance: Keeping our eyes open and our medicines safe\". It was chosen wisely, following EPSA's former Annual Topics regarding \"Information to Patients\" and \"Patents, Generics and Counterfeits\", in order to complete the Pharmaceutical package.\n\nThe EPSA Individual Mobility Project is a long term project that gives the opportunity to students of pharmacy, particularly those in their late years of studies, and recent-graduates of pharmacy or pharmaceutical sciences from all European countries (members of EPSA) to gain an additional real-time work or experience, mainly in the fields of research and industry. Consequently, the IMP represents a unique opportunity for students and recent graduates to also in gain valuable knowledge of other European countries, customs, cultures as well as learning and getting to know the European diversity, which are the experiences encouraged also by the European Commission.\nThis project allows the student or graduate to gain experience, knowledge, of the working practices and research techniques from the host company / institution in a project that can last between 2 and 12 months.\n\nVoyage is an online platform consisting of profiles of individuals with basic information about an accommodation or service which they provide.\n\nThe platform enables each EPSA member to register, make a profile and offer e.g. their free bed or several beds. Any registered user may contact other Voyage users and hopefully arrange their stay at his or her place. For more information about EPSA Voyage it is best to visit Voyage website and see and try out the system on your own: www.epsa-online.org/voyage.\n\nVoyage is an excellent opportunity to meet people with a focus similar to yours within the world of pharmacy. It gives a chance for cooperation and enables both parties to benefit from meeting new people whether sharing experiences or using her or his guest bed at a newly met foreign friend's house.\n\nEach year, the topic of the Annual Questionnaire is chosen and questions concerning all fields related to this topic are included in the questionnaire which is then distributed to all member organizations to hand out to students. The results derived are then presented to professional organizations. This year, the topic for the annual questionnaire is \"Learning across Health professions - Multidisciplinary and Interdisciplinary Aspects of Pharmacy Education\".\n\nThe EPSA Lifelong Learning Certificate provides pharmacy students who actively participate in professional and educational activities organized or promoted by EPSA, the opportunity to gain tangible credit for these activities. It also introduces, at an early stage in the development of these future healthcare professionals, the important principles of Lifelong Learning as well as establishing the importance of documenting professional activities. The Certificate is granted to those who achieve 5 Lifelong Learning Points in one year (from April to March). The points can be obtained by attending the educational aspect of EPSA events or by attending an EPSA approved education project at a local level.\n\nThis new concept was introduced in 2005, and is led within EPSA by the Training Coordinator. Through Training events, students' knowledge on topics usually not included in the classical Pharmacy education (e.g. project management, communication and counseling skills) is improved by providing them training during EPSA events.\n\nAt a further stage, the most motivated and promising students can participate to the \"Training New Trainers\" event (TNT) in May, which will allow them to acquire strong leadership skills, and make them a part of the EPSA Training Team. They will consequently be able to train other students, spreading this knowledge to others at local/national events. The Training Project has the support from the European Commission, which can provide grants to organize such events through the Youth in Action Programme.\n\nThe oBIGsity Project aims to make people aware of the increasing rate of obesity cases. This disease is found among both women and men at different ages. Students and people in general should know the consequences of this condition and most importantly how to prevent it.\n\nStudents' associations can participate by having a booth organized, where volunteer students will spread fliers and information regarding obesity (causes, treatment, how to avoid). If a video-projector will be available, some short videos can be displayed. At the university's cafeteria each sandwich will be given together with an apple, to promote health food!\n\nThis project aims to create an online database with all relevant information to EPSA and its members. This database will be available on EPSA official website and can be accessed by all pharmacists' students around Europe. It will contain information about the differences between the pharmacy course around Europe (number of year of studies, curricula, etc.), the profession itself (list of pharmacy organizations that exist in the country, health institutions, number of pharmacists in each country, etc.) and also the main characteristics of the country (currency, weather, life cost, etc.). With this project EPSA will create platform where students can find all information that they need about the country where they are going to experience a mobility project.\nAll information collected by EPSA team during its mandate will be saved and organized on this database.\n\nSince the foundation of EPSA many students have spent much of their time working for the association. The EPSA Alumni project aims to link the current EPSA team and members to the old ones, in order to make EPSA grow with the advice, expertise and great example of these people. This project offers the opportunity to maintain contact with all EPSA enthusiasts and also to keep the alumni benefiting from the association who they have given a lot of time and energy to. The alumni officer is in charge of contacting all alumni in order to gather their expertise and include them in trainings database.\nThis project aims to create an alumni weekend during EPSA Annual Congress, an alumni magazine, a section on EPSA official website dedicated to this issue and also an online platform with all important and relevant information regarding alumni – the EPSA Alumni Database.\n\nThe Twinnet Project aims to connect students from different countries and also to provide them an extracurricular knowledge during a short period of time. The Team Mobility Project includes TWIN (bilateral), THREEN (three lateral) and Multilateral (QUATRINO, MULTI-Exchange Projects) student projects among different associations.\nThe Vice President of Mobility ensures that the project is being taken properly and the Grant Coordinator helps Liaison Secretaries finding European Grants to support these mobility projects.\n\nThe European Union is more than just a confederation of countries, but it is not a federal state. The EU policies in general, are the result of decisions taken by the institutional triangle made up of the Council, the European Parliament and the European Commission, all based in Brussels (the EU Parliament hold also in Strasbourg a plenary every month).\n\n\nMore than 70% of national law is based on decisions taken in Brussels. EU citizens are finding more and more that their lives are shaped by regulations established in Brussels. Companies and Associations in the European Union increasingly recognise the importance of lobbying at European level. Consequentially also EPSA, as a non-governmental organization that represent the interests of the pharmaceutical students, managed to have a permanent office in Brussels and daily lobby to promote its interests at the EU Institutions in order that they will take EPSA opinion into account when they legislate.\nEPSA maintains several meetings with officials of European Commission, especially from DG SANCO (Directorate General for Health and Consumer Affairs) and DG ENTR (Directorate General Enterprise and Industry) and deputies of the European Parliament (especially from ENVI Committee) promoting EPSA opinion on Pharmacovigilance and Pharmaceutical Care.\nBeing in Brussels also allows EPSA to have the possibility to meet other students associations that are based as EPSA in the \"Capital of Europe\".\n\nThe International Pharmaceutical Students' Federation (IPSF) is the largest body representing pharmacy and pharmaceutical students and recent graduates in the world. EPSA collaborates with IPSF under a formal Memorandum of Understanding. The organisations work together yearly and have a similar membership base within Europe. EPSA and IPSF frequently share publications, initiatives, promote both associations, and work on behalf of European members to organize joint programming at their events.\n"}
{"id": "505463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=505463", "title": "Eyeglass prescription", "text": "Eyeglass prescription\n\nAn eyeglass prescription is an order written by an eyewear prescriber, such as an optometrist or ophthalmologist, that specifies the value of all parameters the prescriber has deemed necessary to construct and/or dispense corrective lenses appropriate for a patient. If an examination indicates that corrective lenses are appropriate, the prescriber generally provides the patient with an eyewear prescription at the conclusion of the exam.\n\nThe parameters specified on spectacle prescriptions vary, but typically include the patient's name, power of the lenses, any prism to be included, the pupillary distance, expiration date, and the prescriber's signature. The prescription is typically determined during a refraction, using a phoropter and asking the patient which of two lenses is better, or by automated refractor, or through the technique of retinoscopy. A dispensing optician will take a prescription written by an optometrist or ophthalmologist and order and/or assemble the frames and lenses to then be dispensed and sold to the patient.\n\nEvery corrective lens prescription includes a spherical correction in diopters. Convergent powers are positive (e.g., +4.00 D) and condense light to correct for farsightedness (hyperopia) or allow the patient to read more comfortably (see presbyopia and binocular vision disorders). Divergent powers are negative (e.g., −3.75 D) and spread out light to correct for nearsightedness (myopia). If neither convergence nor divergence is required in the prescription, \"plano\" is used to denote a refractive power of zero.\n\nThe term \"sphere\" comes from the geometry of lenses. Lenses derive their power from curved surfaces. A spherical lens has the same curvature in every direction perpendicular to the optical axis. Spherical lenses are adequate correction when a person has no astigmatism. To correct for astigmatism, the \"cylinder\" and \"axis\" components specify how a particular lens is different from a lens composed of purely spherical surfaces.\n\nPatients with astigmatism need a cylindrical lens, or more generally a toric lens to see clearly. The geometry of a toric lens focuses light differently in different meridians. A meridian, in this case, is a plane that is perpendicular to the optical axis. For example, a toric lens, when rotated correctly, could focus an object to the image of a horizontal line at one focal distance while focusing a vertical line to a separate focal distance.\n\nThe power of a toric lens can be specified by describing how the cylinder (the meridian that is most different from the spherical power) differs from the spherical power. Power evenly transitions between the two powers as you move from the meridian with the most convergence to the meridian with the least convergence. For regular toric lenses, these powers are perpendicular to each other and their location relative to vertical and horizontal are specified by the axis component.\n\nThere are two different conventions for indicating the amount of cylinder: \"plus cylinder notation\" and \"minus cylinder notation\". In the former, the cylinder power is a number of diopters more convergent than the sphere power. That means the spherical power describes the most divergent meridian and the cylindrical component describes the most convergent. In the minus cylinder notation, the cylinder power is a number of diopters more divergent than the sphere component. In this convention, the sphere power describes the most convergent meridian and the cylinder component describes the most divergent. Europe typically follows the plus cylinder convention while in the US the minus cylinder notation is used by optometrists and the plus cylinder notation is used by ophthalmologists. Minus cylinder notation is also more common in Asia, although either style may be encountered there. There is no difference in these forms of notation and it is easy to convert between them: \nFor example, a lens with a vertical power of -3.75 and a horizontal power of -2.25 could be specified as either -2.25 -1.50 x 180 or -3.75 +1.50 x 090.\n\nThe axis defines the location of the sphere and cylinder powers. The name \"axis\" comes from the concept of generating a cylinder by rotating a line around an axis. The curve of that cylinder is 90° from that axis of rotation. When dealing with toric lenses, the axis defines the orientation of the steepest and flattest curvatures relative to horizontal and vertical. The \"3 o'clock\" position is defined as zero, and the 90th meridian is a vertical line. A horizontal line passes through both zero and the 180th meridians. By convention, a horizontal axis is recorded as 180.\n\nIn a regular toric lens, the flattest and steepest curvatures are separated by 90°. As a result, the axis of the cylinder is also the meridian with the same power as the recorded sphere power. The cylinder power, as defined above is the power that is most different from the sphere power. Because they are defined relative to each other, it is important to know if the lens is being described in minus cylinder notation, where the sphere power is the most convergent / least divergent power. When using plus cylinder notation, the opposite is true.\n\nIf the lens is spherical (there is no cylinder component) then there is no need for an axis. A prescription like this is written with D.S. (diopters sphere) after the sphere power (e.g., −3.00 D.S.). This verifies that the prescription is truly spherical rather than the cylinder power being omitted in error. \n\n\nA prescription of \"−1.00 +0.25 x 180\" describes a lens that has a horizontal power of −1.00 D and a vertical power of −0.75 D.\n\nSimilar to medical prescriptions, eyeglass prescriptions are written on paper pads or included in a patient's electronic health record, and contain a number of different abbreviations and terms:\n\n"}
{"id": "4087784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4087784", "title": "Galactocele", "text": "Galactocele\n\nA galactocele (also: \"lacteal cyst\" or \"milk cyst\") is a retention cyst containing milk or a milky substance that is usually located in the mammary glands. They occur in women during or shortly after lactation.\n\nThey present as a firm mass, often subareolar, and are caused by the obstruction of a lactiferous duct. Clinically, they appear similar to a cyst on examination. The duct becomes more distended over time by epithelial cells and milk. It may rarely be complicated by a secondary infection and result in abscess formation. These cysts may rupture leading to formation of inflammatory reaction and may mimic Malignancy.\n\nOnce lactation has ended the cyst should resolve on its own without intervention. A galactocele is not normally infected as the milk within is sterile and has no outlet through which to become contaminated.Treatment is by aspiration of the contents or by excision of the cyst. Antibiotics are given to prevent infection.\n\nGalactocele may be associated with oral contraceptive use.\n\nReference Robbins Basic Pathology \n\n"}
{"id": "1467374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1467374", "title": "Gestational age", "text": "Gestational age\n\nGestational age is a measure of the age of a pregnancy which is taken from the woman's last menstrual period (LMP), or the corresponding age of the gestation as estimated by a more accurate method if available. Such methods include adding 14 days to a known duration since fertilization (as is possible in in vitro fertilization), or by obstetric ultrasonography. The popularity of using such a definition of gestational age is that menstrual periods are essentially always noticed, while there is usually a lack of a convenient way to discern when fertilization occurred.\n\nThe initiation of pregnancy for the calculation of gestational age can be different from definitions of initiation of pregnancy in context of the abortion debate or beginning of human personhood.\n\nAccording to American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, the main methods to calculate gestational age are:\n\nGestational age can also be estimated by calculating days from ovulation if it was estimated from related signs or ovulation tests, and adding 14 days by convention.\n\nA more complete listing of methods is given in following table:\nAs a general rule, the official gestational age should be based on the actual beginning of the last menstrual period, unless any of the above methods gives an estimated date that differs more than the variability for the method, in which case the difference cannot probably be explained by that variability alone. For example, if there is a gestational age based on the beginning of the last menstrual period of 9.0 weeks, and a first-trimester obstetric ultrasonography gives an estimated gestational age of 10.0 weeks (with a 2 SD variability of ±8% of the estimate thereby giving a variability of ±0.8 weeks), the difference of 1.0 weeks between the tests is larger than the 2 SD variability of the ultrasonography estimate, indicating that the gestational age estimated by ultrasonography should be used as the official gestational age.\n\nOnce the estimated due date (EDD) is established, it should rarely be changed, as the determination of gestational age is most accurate earlier in the pregnancy.\n\nFollowing are diagrams for estimating gestational age from obstetric ultrasound, by various target parameters:\nThe fertilization age (also called \"embryonic age\" and later \"fetal age\") is the time from the fertilization. It usually occurs within a day of ovulation, which, in turn, occurs on average 14.6 days after the beginning of the preceding menstruation (LMP). There is also considerable variability in this interval, with a 95% prediction interval of the ovulation of 9 to 20 days after menstruation even for an average woman who has a mean LMP-to-ovulation time of 14.6. In a reference group representing all women, the 95% prediction interval of the LMP-to-ovulation is 8.2 to 20.5 days. The actual variability between gestational age as estimated from the beginning of the last menstrual period (without the use of any additional method mentioned in previous section) is substantially larger because of uncertainty which menstrual cycle gave rise to the pregnancy. For example, the menstruation may be scarce enough to give the false appearance that an earlier menstruation gave rise to the pregnancy, potentially giving an estimated gestational age that is approximately one month too large. Also, vaginal bleeding occurs during 15-25% of first trimester pregnancies, and may be mistaken as menstruation, potentially giving an estimated gestational age that is too low.\n\nGestational age is used for example for:\n\nThe mean pregnancy length has been estimated to be 283.4 days of gestational age as timed from the first day of the last menstrual period and 280.6 days when retrospectively estimated by obstetric ultrasound measurement of the fetal biparietal diameter (BPD) in the second trimester. Other algorithms take into account other variables, such as whether this is the first or subsequent child, the mother's race, age, length of menstrual cycle, and menstrual regularity. In order to have a standard reference point, the normal pregnancy duration is assumed by medical professionals to be 280 days (or 40 weeks) of gestational age. Furthermore, actual childbirth has only a certain probability of occurring within the limits of the estimated due date. A study of singleton live births came to the result that childbirth has a standard deviation of 14 days when gestational age is estimated by first trimester ultrasound, and 16 days when estimated directly by last menstrual period.\n\nThe most common system used among healthcare professionals is Naegele's rule, which estimates the expected date of delivery (EDD) by adding a year, subtracting three months, and adding seven days to the first day of a woman's last menstrual period (LMP) or corresponding date as estimated from other means.\n\nThere is no sharp limit of development, gestational age, or weight at which a human fetus automatically becomes viable. According to studies between 2003 and 2005, 20 to 35 percent of babies born at 23 weeks of gestation survive, while 50 to 70 percent of babies born at 24 to 25 weeks, and more than 90 percent born at 26 to 27 weeks, survive. It is rare for a baby weighing less than 500 g (17.6 ounces) to survive. A baby's chances for survival increases 3-4% per day between 23 and 24 weeks of gestation and about 2-3% per day between 24 and 26 weeks of gestation. After 26 weeks the rate of survival increases at a much slower rate because survival is high already. Prognosis depends also on medical protocols on whether to resuscitate and aggressively treat a very premature newborn, or whether to provide only palliative care, in view of the high risk of severe disability of very preterm babies.\n\nUsing gestational age, births can be classified into broad categories:\n\nUsing the LMP (last menstrual period) method, a full-term human pregnancy is considered to be 40 weeks (280 days), though pregnancy lengths between 38 and 42 weeks are considered normal. A fetus born prior to the 37th week of gestation is considered to be \"preterm\". A preterm baby is likely to be premature and consequently faces increased risk of morbidity and mortality. An estimated due date is given by Naegele's rule.\n\nAccording to the WHO, a preterm birth is defined as \"babies born alive before 37 weeks of pregnancy are completed.\" According to this classification, there are three sub-categories of preterm birth, based on gestational age: extremely preterm (less than 28 weeks), very preterm (28 to 32 weeks), moderate to late preterm (32 to 37 weeks). Various jurisdictions may use different classifications.\n\nFor most of the 20th Century, official definitions of a live birth and infant death in the Soviet Union and Russia differed from common international standards, such as those established by the World Health Organization in the latter part of the century. Babies who were less than 28 weeks of gestational age, or weighed less than 1000 grams, or less than 35 cm in length – even if they showed some sign of life (breathing, heartbeat, voluntary muscle movement) – were classified as \"live fetuses\" rather than \"live births.\" Only if such newborns survived seven days (168 hours) were they then classified as live births. If, however, they died within that interval, they were classified as stillbirths. If they survived that interval but died within the first 365 days they were classified as infant deaths.\n\nMore recently, thresholds for \"fetal death\" continue to vary widely internationally, sometimes incorporating weight as well as gestational age. The gestational age for statistical recording of fetal deaths ranges from 16 weeks in Norway, to 20 weeks in the US and Australia, 24 weeks in the UK, and 26 weeks in Italy and Spain.\n\nThe WHO defines the perinatal period as \"The perinatal period commences at 22 completed weeks (154 days) of gestation and ends seven completed days after birth.\" Perinatal mortality is the death of fetuses or neonates during the perinatal period. A 2013 study found that \"While only a small proportion of births occur before 24 completed weeks of gestation (about 1 per 1000), survival is rare and most of them are either fetal deaths or live births followed by a neonatal death.\"\n\nGestational age (as well as \"fertilization age\") is sometimes used postnatally (after birth) to estimate various risk factors. For example, it is a better predictor than postnatal age for risk of intraventricular hemorrhage in premature babies treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.\n\nChild's gestational age at birth (pregnancy length) is associated with various likely causal maternal non-genetic factors: stress during pregnancy, age, parity, smoking, infection and inflammation, BMI. Also, preexisting maternal medical conditions with genetic component, e.g., diabetes mellitus type 1, systemic lupus erythematosus, anaemia. Parental ancestral background (race) also plays a role in pregnancy duration. Gestational age at birth is on average shortened by various pregnancy aspects: twin pregnancy, prelabor rupture of (fetal) membranes, pre-eclampsia, eclampsia, intrauterine growth restriction. The ratio between fetal growth rate and uterine size (reflecting uterine distension) is suspected to partially determine the pregnancy length.\n\nFamily-based studies showed that gestational age at birth is partially (from 25% to 40%) determined by genetic factors.\n\n"}
{"id": "36254081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36254081", "title": "Ghana Nurse and Midwife Trainees Association", "text": "Ghana Nurse and Midwife Trainees Association\n\nThe Ghana Nurse and Midwife Trainees Association is the official umbrella association of all student nurses and midwives in the republic of Ghana. It is affiliated to the Ghana Registered Nurses Association (GRNA).\n\nThough student unions of nurses and midwives have existed from the inception of nursing training in Ghana, it was not until September 2007 that the association was formally registered under the provisions of Sections 27 and 28 of the companies code., 1963 of the republic of Ghana.\n\nThe association is organized under national, zonal and local sectors with responsible executives at each level. GNMTA currently has a strength of about three thousand persons including students and interns.\n\nThe Ghana Nurse and Midwife Trainees Association is the official voice of student nurses and midwives including interns across the length and breadth of Ghana. The association represents student nurses and midwives including interns in all issues pertaining to welfare, discipline, and academics. The association is also an affiliate to the Ghana Registered Nurses Association (GRNA).\n\nThe president of the association is Sarpong Ernest. The immediate past president is Andy Tetteh Hollyfield.\n\nThe association had its annual congress on 8 to 12 October 2013 to Elect its Current leaders. \nThese are:\n\nEmmanuel Geyevo (President)\nBenedicta Birago ( Vice)\n\nBonsu Emmanuel (General Secretary)\n\nAttah Maxwell (Treasurer / Financial Controller)\n\nAbroso Rabbi (P.R.O)\n"}
{"id": "38488354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38488354", "title": "Graceway Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Graceway Pharmaceuticals\n\nGraceway Pharmaceuticals was a USA LLC based in Tennessee.\n\nProducts include:\n\nGraceway declared bankruptcy in 2011 and its assets were purchased by Medicis Pharmaceutical Corporation of Scottsdale AZ.\n"}
{"id": "59097286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59097286", "title": "Health in Greenland", "text": "Health in Greenland\n\nThe healthcare system in Greenland is a publicly financed governmental responsibility managed by the Agency for Health and Prevention. Greenland took over responsibility for the health care system from Denmark in 1992. \n\nThere is a high infant mortality rate and high rates of death due to unnatural causes, especially suicides and accidents. \n\nIn 2006, health care cost 938 million Danish kronor corresponding to 2,219 euros per head, almost entirely publicly financed. Health care is more than 18% of government expenditure. About 28% is for Queen Ingrid's Hospital and 12% of the budget for specialist treatments outside Greenland, including serious criminal offenders in specialized psychiatric wards. 6% of the total budget goes on transport for patients with acute injuries or illnesses. Each district has a small hospital and there are health clinics in every village. Most elective surgery is performed at Queen Ingrid's Hospital. It is difficult to recruit clinical staff especially for more remote areas. \n\nThere are no private healthcare services, but there is private dental care, physiotherapy, psychotherapy and treatment for alcohol and drug abuse in Nuuk. \n"}
{"id": "24426655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24426655", "title": "Health in South Africa", "text": "Health in South Africa\n\nHealth in South Africa\nThe 2015 CIA estimated average life expectancy in South Africa was 62.34 years. The life expectancy for males is 60.83 years and for females 63.87 years.\n\nHIV and AIDS in South Africa are major health concerns, and around 5.3 million people are thought to be living with the virus in South Africa. HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is the retrovirus that causes the disease known as AIDS (Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome). South Africa has more people with HIV/AIDS than any other country.\n\nThe South African National HIV Survey estimated that 10.8% of all South Africans over 2 years old were living with HIV in 2005. There is an average of almost 1,000 deaths of AIDS a day in South Africa.\n\nOther infectious diseases prevalent in South Africa include bacterial diarrhea, typhoid fever, and hepatitis A. These infectious diseases are generally caused when the food or water consumed by an individual has been exposed to fecal material. South Africa is an under developed nation and because of this the sanitation facility access in urban areas is 16% unimproved while in rural areas the sanitation facility access is 35% unimproved.\n\nThe South African Vaccination and Immunisation Centre began in 2003 as an alliance between the South African Department of Health, vaccine industry, academic institutions and other stakeholders. It works with WHO and the South African National Department of Health to educate, do research, provide technical support, and advocate. They work to increase rates of vaccination in order to improve the nation's health.\n\n15% of South African infants are born with a low birth weight. 5% of South African children are so underweight they are considered to be wasted. Since the 1990s South Africa's malnutrition problem has remained fairly stable. But as malnutrition in terms of hunger is getting better, the number of obesity is rising and this is becoming a problem.\n\nThe prevalence of malnutrition in South Africa varies across different geographical areas and socio-economic groups. Many infants in Africa suffer from malnutrition because their mothers do not breastfeed them. The reason mothers in South Africa avoid breastfeeding is to prevent passing on AIDS to their children. The 2010 South Africa Department of Health Study found that 30.2% of pregnant women in South Africa have AIDS. Instead, mothers give milk substitutes to their children and do so in unclean environments. Sometimes they go directly to giving food which are not adapted to infants. These things cause many cases of malnutrition in children under five years of age.\n\nSouth Africa has less than 5% of the population facing undernourishment. In 2015 South Africa achieved one of the targets of the millennium development goal 1 which was to halve the number of people facing undernourishment between 1990 and 2015.\n\nIn a study conducted by the Mental Health and Poverty research Program, it was found that approximately 16.5% of the adult population in South Africa suffers from mental illness, with 1% suffering from a severe life debilitating mental disease. 30% of South Africans are likely to suffer a mental illness in their lifetimes, depression being the most common ailment. However, these statistics may be an underestimation. Among the native population, many still hold to the traditional belief that mental illness results from a demonic possession. As a result, many individuals for fear of social ostracism, keep their mental illness secret instead of seeking the much needed medical attention. This means that there is still a significant population suffering from mental illness that is currently unrepresented in mental health statistics. \n\nBloomberg has ranked South Africa as the second \"most stressed out\" country in the world, due in large part to South Africans' work ethic. 53% of the South African work force does not take annual leave.\n\nAnother large contributor to the high frequency of mental disorders is violence. Of the adult population ages 16 to 64, it was found that 23% were exposed to a traumatic event of violence in the past year. These traumatic events include acts such as fighting a war, being tortured, or participating in violence. Among this population, it was determined that mental illness including symptoms of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) was 8.5 times more prevalent than among the general population.\n\nAnother factor contributing to mental illness in South Africa is substance abuse. Many provinces are used as drug trafficking routes, and as the South African government lacks the necessary resources to control this problem, many of these illicit drugs find their way into local populations as a drug. In addition, the availability of the wild growing \"Cannabis\" plant allows for its rampant abuse among all age categories. It was found that 52% of street children smoke the Cannabis plant and 22% on a daily basis. Educational campaigns are limited, and as a result, many do not realise the impinging health effects that will result from substance abuse. \n\nDiseases such as malaria, typhoid fever, and HIV provide a significant contribution to the prevalence of mental illness. Some of these diseases such as cerebral malaria can bear a direct physiological effect on the mental functionality of the patient. However, even more poignant is the ability of disease to strike a radiating blow to the patient's emotional psyche. For instance, the prevalence of mental illness among those suffering from HIV is 43.7% compared to the 16.5% observed among the general population.\n\nThe 2010 maternal mortality rate per 100,000 births for South Africa is 410. This is compared with 236.8 in 2008 and 120.7 in 1990. The under 5 mortality rate, per 1,000 births is 65 and the neonatal mortality as a percentage of under 5's mortality is 30. In South Africa the number of midwives per 1,000 live births is unavailable and the lifetime risk of death for pregnant women 1 in 100.\n\n"}
{"id": "15925628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15925628", "title": "Hepatitis B", "text": "Hepatitis B\n\nHepatitis B is an infectious disease caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV) that affects the liver. It can cause both acute and chronic infections. Many people have no symptoms during the initial infection. Some develop a rapid onset of sickness with vomiting, yellowish skin, tiredness, dark urine and abdominal pain. Often these symptoms last a few weeks and rarely does the initial infection result in death. It may take 30 to 180 days for symptoms to begin. In those who get infected around the time of birth 90% develop chronic while less than 10% of those infected after the age of five do. Most of those with chronic disease have no symptoms; however, cirrhosis and liver cancer may eventually develop. These complications result in the death of 15 to 25% of those with chronic disease.\nThe virus is transmitted by exposure to infectious blood or body fluids. Infection around the time of birth or from contact with other people's blood during childhood is the most frequent method by which hepatitis B is acquired in areas where the disease is common. In areas where the disease is rare, intravenous drug use and sexual intercourse are the most frequent routes of infection. Other risk factors include working in healthcare, blood transfusions, dialysis, living with an infected person, travel in countries where the infection rate is high, and living in an institution. Tattooing and acupuncture led to a significant number of cases in the 1980s; however, this has become less common with improved sterility. The viruses cannot be spread by holding hands, sharing eating utensils, kissing, hugging, coughing, sneezing, or breastfeeding. The infection can be diagnosed 30 to 60 days after exposure. The diagnosis is usually confirmed by testing the blood for parts of the virus and for antibodies against the virus. It is one of five main hepatitis viruses: A, B, C, D, and E.\nThe infection has been preventable by vaccination since 1982. Vaccination is recommended by the World Health Organization in the first day of life if possible. Two or three more doses are required at a later time for full effect. This vaccine works about 95% of the time. About 180 countries gave the vaccine as part of national programs as of 2006. It is also recommended that all blood be tested for hepatitis B before transfusion and condoms be used to prevent infection. During an initial infection, care is based on the symptoms that a person has. In those who develop chronic disease, antiviral medication such as tenofovir or interferon may be useful; however, these drugs are expensive. Liver transplantation is sometimes used for cirrhosis.\nAbout a third of the world population has been infected at one point in their lives, including 343 million who have chronic infections. Another 129 million new infections occurred in 2013. Over 750,000 people die of hepatitis B each year. About 300,000 of these are due to liver cancer. The disease is now only common in East Asia and sub-Saharan Africa where between 5 and 10% of adults are chronically infected. Rates in Europe and North America are less than 1%. It was originally known as \"serum hepatitis\". Research is looking to create foods that contain HBV vaccine. The disease may affect other great apes as well.\nAcute infection with virus is associated with acute viral hepatitis, an illness that begins with general ill-health, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, body aches, mild fever, and dark urine, and then progresses to development of jaundice. It has been noted that itchy skin has been an indication as a possible symptom of all hepatitis virus types. The illness lasts for a few weeks and then gradually improves in most affected people. A few people may have a more severe form of liver disease known as fulminant hepatic failure and may die as a result. The infection may be entirely asymptomatic and may go unrecognized.\n\nChronic infection with virus either may be asymptomatic or may be associated with a chronic inflammation of the liver (chronic hepatitis), leading to cirrhosis over a period of several years. This type of infection dramatically increases the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC; liver cancer). Across Europe, hepatitis B and C cause approximately 50% of hepatocellular carcinomas. Chronic carriers are encouraged to avoid consuming alcohol as it increases their risk for cirrhosis and liver cancer. virus has been linked to the development of membranous glomerulonephritis (MGN).\n\nSymptoms outside of the liver are present in 1–10% of HBV-infected people and include serum-sickness–like syndrome, acute necrotizing vasculitis (polyarteritis nodosa), membranous glomerulonephritis, and papular acrodermatitis of childhood (Gianotti–Crosti syndrome). The serum-sickness–like syndrome occurs in the setting of acute , often preceding the onset of jaundice. The clinical features are fever, skin rash, and polyarteritis. The symptoms often subside shortly after the onset of jaundice but can persist throughout the duration of acute . About 30–50% of people with acute necrotizing vasculitis (polyarteritis nodosa) are HBV carriers. HBV-associated nephropathy has been described in adults but is more common in children. Membranous glomerulonephritis is the most common form. Other immune-mediated hematological disorders, such as essential mixed cryoglobulinemia and aplastic anemia have been described as part of the extrahepatic manifestations of HBV infection, but their association is not as well-defined; therefore, they probably should not be considered etiologically linked to HBV.\n\nTransmission of virus results from exposure to infectious blood or body fluids containing blood. It is 50 to 100 times more infectious than human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Possible forms of transmission include sexual contact, blood transfusions and transfusion with other human blood products, re-use of contaminated needles and syringes, and vertical transmission from mother to child (MTCT) during childbirth. Without intervention, a mother who is positive for HBsAg has a 20% risk of passing the infection to her offspring at the time of birth. This risk is as high as 90% if the mother is also positive for HBeAg. HBV can be transmitted between family members within households, possibly by contact of nonintact skin or mucous membrane with secretions or saliva containing HBV. However, at least 30% of reported among adults cannot be associated with an identifiable risk factor. Breastfeeding after proper immunoprophylaxis does not appear to contribute to mother-to-child-transmission (MTCT) of HBV. The virus may be detected within 30 to 60 days after infection and can persist and develop into chronic hepatitis B. The incubation period of the hepatitis B virus is 75 days on average but can vary from 30 to 180 days.\n\n virus (HBV) is a member of the hepadnavirus family. The virus particle (virion) consists of an outer lipid envelope and an icosahedral nucleocapsid core composed of protein. These virions are 30–42 nm in diameter. The nucleocapsid encloses the viral DNA and a DNA polymerase that has reverse transcriptase activity. The outer envelope contains embedded proteins that are involved in viral binding of, and entry into, susceptible cells. The virus is one of the smallest enveloped animal viruses. The 42 nm virions, which are capable of infecting liver cells known as hepatocytes, are referred to as \"Dane particles\". In addition to the Dane particles, filamentous and spherical bodies lacking a core can be found in the serum of infected individuals. These particles are not infectious and are composed of the lipid and protein that forms part of the surface of the virion, which is called the surface antigens (HBsAg), and is produced in excess during the life cycle of the virus.\n\nThe genome of HBV is made of circular DNA, but it is unusual because the DNA is not fully double-stranded. One end of the full length strand is linked to the viral DNA polymerase. The genome is 3020–3320 nucleotides long (for the full-length strand) and 1700–2800 nucleotides long (for the short length-strand). The negative-sense (non-coding) is complementary to the viral mRNA. The viral DNA is found in the nucleus soon after infection of the cell. The partially double-stranded DNA is rendered fully double-stranded by completion of the (+) sense strand and removal of a protein molecule from the (−) sense strand and a short sequence of RNA from the (+) sense strand. Non-coding bases are removed from the ends of the (−) sense strand and the ends are rejoined. There are four known genes encoded by the genome, called C, X, P, and S. The core protein is coded for by gene C (HBcAg), and its start codon is preceded by an upstream in-frame AUG start codon from which the pre-core protein is produced. HBeAg is produced by proteolytic processing of the pre-core protein. In some rare strains of the virus known as Hepatitis B virus precore mutants, no HBeAg is present.\nThe DNA polymerase is encoded by gene P. Gene S is the gene that codes for the surface antigen (HBsAg). The HBsAg gene is one long open reading frame but contains three in frame \"start\" (ATG) codons that divide the gene into three sections, pre-S1, pre-S2, and S. Because of the multiple start codons, polypeptides of three different sizes called large (the order from surface to the inside: pre-S1, pre-S2, and S ), middle (pre-S2, S), and small (S) are produced. The function of the protein coded for by gene X is not fully understood but it is associated with the development of liver cancer. It stimulates genes that promote cell growth and inactivates growth regulating molecules.\n\nThe life cycle of virus is complex. is one of a few known pararetroviruses: non-retroviruses that still use reverse transcription in their replication process. The virus gains entry into the cell by binding to NTCP on the surface and being endocytosed. Because the virus multiplies via RNA made by a host enzyme, the viral genomic DNA has to be transferred to the cell nucleus by host proteins called chaperones. The partially double-stranded viral DNA is then made fully double stranded by a viral polymerase and transformed into covalently closed circular DNA (cccDNA). This cccDNA serves as a template for transcription of four viral mRNAs by host RNA polymerase. The largest mRNA, (which is longer than the viral genome), is used to make the new copies of the genome and to make the capsid core protein and the viral DNA polymerase. These four viral transcripts undergo additional processing and go on to form progeny virions that are released from the cell or returned to the nucleus and re-cycled to produce even more copies. The long mRNA is then transported back to the cytoplasm where the virion P protein (the DNA polymerase) synthesizes DNA via its reverse transcriptase activity.\n\nThe virus is divided into four major serotypes (adr, adw, ayr, ayw) based on antigenic epitopes presented on its envelope proteins, and into eight major genotypes (A–H). The genotypes have a distinct geographical distribution and are used in tracing the evolution and transmission of the virus. Differences between genotypes affect the disease severity, course and likelihood of complications, and response to treatment and possibly vaccination. There are two other genotypes I and J but they are not universally accepted as of 2015\n\nGenotypes differ by at least 8% of their sequence and were first reported in 1988 when six were initially described (A–F). Two further types have since been described (G and H). Most genotypes are now divided into subgenotypes with distinct properties.\n\n virus primarily interferes with the functions of the liver by replicating in hepatocytes. A functional receptor is NTCP. There is evidence that the receptor in the closely related duck hepatitis B virus is carboxypeptidase D. The virions bind to the host cell via the preS domain of the viral surface antigen and are subsequently internalized by endocytosis. HBV-preS-specific receptors are expressed primarily on hepatocytes; however, viral DNA and proteins have also been detected in extrahepatic sites, suggesting that cellular receptors for HBV may also exist on extrahepatic cells.\n\nDuring HBV infection, the host immune response causes both hepatocellular damage and viral clearance. Although the innate immune response does not play a significant role in these processes, the adaptive immune response, in particular virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes(CTLs), contributes to most of the liver injury associated with HBV infection. CTLs eliminate HBV infection by killing infected cells and producing antiviral cytokines, which are then used to purge HBV from viable hepatocytes. Although liver damage is initiated and mediated by the CTLs, antigen-nonspecific inflammatory cells can worsen CTL-induced immunopathology, and platelets activated at the site of infection may facilitate the accumulation of CTLs in the liver.\n\nThe tests, called assays, for detection of virus infection involve serum or blood tests that detect either viral antigens (proteins produced by the virus) or antibodies produced by the host. Interpretation of these assays is complex.\n\nThe surface antigen (HBsAg) is most frequently used to screen for the presence of this infection. It is the first detectable viral antigen to appear during infection. However, early in an infection, this antigen may not be present and it may be undetectable later in the infection as it is being cleared by the host. The infectious virion contains an inner \"core particle\" enclosing viral genome. The icosahedral core particle is made of 180 or 240 copies of the core protein, alternatively known as core antigen, or HBcAg. During this 'window' in which the host remains infected but is successfully clearing the virus, IgM antibodies specific to the core antigen (\"anti-HBc IgM\") may be the only serological evidence of disease. Therefore, most diagnostic panels contain HBsAg and total anti-HBc (both IgM and IgG).\n\nShortly after the appearance of the HBsAg, another antigen called e antigen (HBeAg) will appear. Traditionally, the presence of HBeAg in a host's serum is associated with much higher rates of viral replication and enhanced infectivity; however, variants of the virus do not produce the 'e' antigen, so this rule does not always hold true. During the natural course of an infection, the HBeAg may be cleared, and antibodies to the 'e' antigen (\"anti-HBe\") will arise immediately afterwards. This conversion is usually associated with a dramatic decline in viral replication.\n\nIf the host is able to clear the infection, eventually the HBsAg will become undetectable and will be followed by IgG antibodies to the surface antigen and core antigen (\"anti-HBs\" and \"anti HBc IgG\"). The time between the removal of the HBsAg and the appearance of anti-HBs is called the window period. A person negative for HBsAg but positive for anti-HBs either has cleared an infection or has been vaccinated previously.\n\nIndividuals who remain HBsAg positive for at least six months are considered to be carriers. Carriers of the virus may have chronic hepatitis B, which would be reflected by elevated serum alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels and inflammation of the liver, if they are in the immune clearance phase of chronic infection. Carriers who have seroconverted to HBeAg negative status, in particular those who acquired the infection as adults, have very little viral multiplication and hence may be at little risk of long-term complications or of transmitting infection to others. However, it is possible for individuals to enter an \"immune escape\" with HBeAg-negative hepatitis.\n\nPCR tests have been developed to detect and measure the amount of HBV DNA, called the viral load, in clinical specimens. These tests are used to assess a person's infection status and to monitor treatment. Individuals with high viral loads, characteristically have ground glass hepatocytes on biopsy.\n\nVaccines for the prevention of hepatitis B have been routinely recommended for babies since 1991 in the United States. The first dose is generally recommended within a day of birth.\n\nMost vaccines are given in three doses over a course of months. A protective response to the vaccine is defined as an anti-HBs antibody concentration of at least 10 mIU/ml in the recipient's serum. The vaccine is more effective in children and 95 percent of those vaccinated have protective levels of antibody. This drops to around 90% at 40 years of age and to around 75 percent in those over 60 years. The protection afforded by vaccination is long lasting even after antibody levels fall below 10 mIU/ml. For newborns of HBsAg-positive mothers: hepatitis B vaccine alone, hepatitis B immunoglobulin alone, or the combination of vaccine plus hepatitis B immunoglobulin, all prevent hepatitis B occurrence. Furthermore, the combination of vaccine plus hepatitis B immunoglobulin is superior to vaccine alone. This combination prevents HBV transmission around the time of birth in 86% to 99% of cases.\n\nTenofovir given in the second or third trimester can reduce the risk of mother to child transmission by 77% when combined with hepatitis B immunoglobulin and the hepatitis B vaccine, especially for pregnant women with high hepatitis B virus DNA levels. However, there is no sufficient evidence that the administration of hepatitis B immunoglobulin alone during pregnancy, might reduce transmission rates to the newborn infant. No randomized control trial has been conducted to assess the effects of hepatitis B vaccine during pregnancy for preventing infant infection.\n\nAll those with a risk of exposure to body fluids such as blood should be vaccinated, if not already. Testing to verify effective immunization is recommended and further doses of vaccine are given to those who are not sufficiently immunized.\n\nIn 10- to 22-year follow-up studies there were no cases of hepatitis B among those with a normal immune system who were vaccinated. Only rare chronic infections have been documented. Vaccination is particularly recommended for high risk groups including: health workers, people with chronic renal failure, and men who have sex with men.\n\nBoth types of the hepatitis B vaccine, the plasma-derived vaccine (PDV) and recombinant vaccine (RV) are of similar effectiveness in preventing the infection in both healthcare workers and chronic renal failure groups. With one difference noticed among health worker group, that the RV intramuscular route is significantly more effective compared with RV intradermal route of administration.\n\nIn assisted reproductive technology, sperm washing is not necessary for males with hepatitis B to prevent transmission, unless the female partner has not been effectively vaccinated. In females with hepatitis B, the risk of transmission from mother to child with IVF is no different from the risk in spontaneous conception.\n\nThose at high risk of infection should be tested as there is effective treatment for those who have the disease. Groups that screening is recommended for include those who have not been vaccinated and one of the following: people from areas of the world where hepatitis B occurs in more than 2%, those with HIV, intravenous drug users, men who have sex with men, and those who live with someone with hepatitis B.\n\nAcute infection does not usually require treatment and most adults clear the infection spontaneously. Early antiviral treatment may be required in fewer than 1% of people, whose infection takes a very aggressive course (fulminant hepatitis) or who are immunocompromised. On the other hand, treatment of chronic infection may be necessary to reduce the risk of cirrhosis and liver cancer. Chronically infected individuals with persistently elevated serum alanine aminotransferase, a marker of liver damage, and HBV DNA levels are candidates for therapy. Treatment lasts from six months to a year, depending on medication and genotype. Treatment duration when medication is taken by mouth, however, is more variable and usually longer than one year.\n\nAlthough none of the available medications can clear the infection, they can stop the virus from replicating, thus minimizing liver damage. As of 2018, there are eight medications licensed for the treatment of infection in the United States. These include antiviral medications lamivudine, adefovir, tenofovir disoproxil, tenofovir alafenamide, telbivudine, and entecavir, and the two immune system modulators interferon alpha-2a and PEGylated interferon alpha-2a. In 2015 the World Health Organization recommended tenofovir or entecavir as first-line agents. Those with current cirrhosis are in most need of treatment.\n\nThe use of interferon, which requires injections daily or thrice weekly, has been supplanted by long-acting PEGylated interferon, which is injected only once weekly. However, some individuals are much more likely to respond than others, and this might be because of the genotype of the infecting virus or the person's heredity. The treatment reduces viral replication in the liver, thereby reducing the viral load (the amount of virus particles as measured in the blood). Response to treatment differs between the genotypes. Interferon treatment may produce an e antigen seroconversion rate of 37% in genotype A but only a 6% seroconversion in type D. Genotype B has similar seroconversion rates to type A while type C seroconverts only in 15% of cases. Sustained e antigen loss after treatment is ~45% in types A and B but only 25–30% in types C and D.\n\n virus infection may be either acute (self-limiting) or chronic (long-standing). Persons with self-limiting infection clear the infection spontaneously within weeks to months.\n\nChildren are less likely than adults to clear the infection. More than 95% of people who become infected as adults or older children will stage a full recovery and develop protective immunity to the virus. However, this drops to 30% for younger children, and only 5% of newborns that acquire the infection from their mother at birth will clear the infection. This population has a 40% lifetime risk of death from cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma. Of those infected between the age of one to six, 70% will clear the infection.\n\nHepatitis D (HDV) can occur only with a concomitant infection, because HDV uses the HBV surface antigen to form a capsid. Co-infection with hepatitis D increases the risk of liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. Polyarteritis nodosa is more common in people with infection.\n\nA number of different tests are available to determine the degree of cirrhosis present. Transient elastography (FibroScan) is the test of choice, but it is expensive. Aspartate aminotransferase to platelet ratio index may be used when cost is an issue.\n\n virus DNA persists in the body after infection, and in some people the disease recurs. Although rare, reactivation is seen most often following alcohol or drug use, or in people with impaired immunity. HBV goes through cycles of replication and non-replication. Approximately 50% of overt carriers experience acute reactivation. Males with baseline ALT of 200 UL/L are three times more likely to develop a reactivation than people with lower levels. Although reactivation can occur spontaneously, people who undergo chemotherapy have a higher risk. Immunosuppressive drugs favor increased HBV replication while inhibiting cytotoxic T cell function in the liver. The risk of reactivation varies depending on the serological profile; those with detectable HBsAg in their blood are at the greatest risk, but those with only antibodies to the core antigen are also at risk. The presence of antibodies to the surface antigen, which are considered to be a marker of immunity, does not preclude reactivation. Treatment with prophylactic antiviral drugs can prevent the serious morbidity associated with HBV disease reactivation.\n\nIn 2004, an estimated 350 million individuals were infected worldwide. National and regional prevalences range from over 10% in Asia to under 0.5% in the United States and Northern Europe.\n\nRoutes of infection include vertical transmission (such as through childbirth), early life horizontal transmission (bites, lesions, and sanitary habits), and adult horizontal transmission (sexual contact, intravenous drug use).\n\nThe primary method of transmission reflects the prevalence of chronic HBV infection in a given area. In low prevalence areas such as the continental United States and Western Europe, injection drug abuse and unprotected sex are the primary methods, although other factors may also be important. In moderate prevalence areas, which include Eastern Europe, Russia, and Japan, where 2–7% of the population is chronically infected, the disease is predominantly spread among children. In high-prevalence areas such as China and South East Asia, transmission during childbirth is most common, although in other areas of high endemicity such as Africa, transmission during childhood is a significant factor. The prevalence of chronic HBV infection in areas of high endemicity is at least 8% with 10–15% prevalence in Africa/Far East. As of 2010, China has 120 million infected people, followed by India and Indonesia with 40 million and 12 million, respectively. According to World Health Organization (WHO), an estimated 600,000 people die every year related to the infection.\n\nIn the United States about 19,000 new cases occurred in 2011 down nearly 90% from 1990.\n\nThe hepatitis B virus has infected humans since at least the Bronze Age. The evidence was obtained from 4,500-year-old human remains. According to the 2018 study, the viral genomes obtained by shotgun sequencing became the oldest ever recovered from vertebrate samples. It was also found that some ancient hepatitis viral strains still infect humans, while other became extinct. This disproved the belief that hepatitis B originated in the New World and spread to Europe around 16th century. Another 2018 study of the remains of a mummified child found in the Basilica of San Domenico Maggiore concluded that the child, who had lived in the 16th century, had a form of HBV, and that the virus was closely related to modern variants.\n\nThe earliest record of an epidemic caused by virus was made by Lurman in 1885. An outbreak of smallpox occurred in Bremen in 1883 and 1,289 shipyard employees were vaccinated with lymph from other people. After several weeks, and up to eight months later, 191 of the vaccinated workers became ill with jaundice and were diagnosed as suffering from serum hepatitis. Other employees who had been inoculated with different batches of lymph remained healthy. Lurman's paper, now regarded as a classical example of an epidemiological study, proved that contaminated lymph was the source of the outbreak. Later, numerous similar outbreaks were reported following the introduction, in 1909, of hypodermic needles that were used, and, more importantly, reused, for administering Salvarsan for the treatment of syphilis. The virus was not discovered until 1966 when Baruch Blumberg, then working at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), discovered the Australia antigen (later known to be surface antigen, or HBsAg) in the blood of Australian aboriginal people. Although a virus had been suspected since the research published by Frederick MacCallum in 1947, David Dane and others discovered the virus particle in 1970 by electron microscopy. By the early 1980s the genome of the virus had been sequenced, and the first vaccines were being tested.\n\nWorld Hepatitis Day, observed July 28, aims to raise global awareness of and hepatitis C and encourage prevention, diagnosis, and treatment. It has been led by the World Hepatitis Alliance since 2007 and in May 2010, it received global endorsement from the World Health Organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "377387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=377387", "title": "Immune thrombocytopenic purpura", "text": "Immune thrombocytopenic purpura\n\nImmune thrombocytopenia (ITP) is a type of thrombocytopenic purpura defined as isolated low platelet count (thrombocytopenia) with normal bone marrow and the absence of other causes of thrombocytopenia. It causes a characteristic purpuric rash and an increased tendency to bleed. Two distinct clinical syndromes manifest as an acute condition in children and a chronic condition in adults. The acute form often follows an infection and has a spontaneous resolution within two months. Chronic immune thrombocytopenia persists longer than six months with a specific cause being unknown.\n\nITP is an autoimmune disease with antibodies detectable against several platelet surface antigens.\n\nITP is diagnosed by a low platelet count in a complete blood count (a common blood test). However, since the diagnosis depends on the exclusion of other causes of a low platelet count, additional investigations (such as a bone marrow biopsy) may be necessary in some cases.\n\nIn mild cases, only careful observation may be required but very low counts or significant bleeding may prompt treatment with corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin, anti-D immunoglobulin, or immunosuppressive medications. \"Refractory ITP\" (not responsive to conventional treatment) may require splenectomy, the surgical removal of the spleen. Platelet transfusions may be used in severe bleeding together with a very low count. Sometimes the body may compensate by making abnormally large platelets.\n\nSigns include the spontaneous formation of bruises (purpura) and petechiae (tiny bruises), especially on the extremities, bleeding from the nostrils and/or gums, and menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding), any of which may occur if the platelet count is below 20,000 per μl. A very low count (<10,000 per μl) may result in the spontaneous formation of hematomas (blood masses) in the mouth or on other mucous membranes. Bleeding time from minor lacerations or abrasions is usually prolonged.\n\nSerious and possibly fatal complications due to extremely low counts (<5,000 per μl) include subarachnoid or intracerebral hemorrhage (bleeding inside the skull or brain), lower gastrointestinal bleeding or other internal bleeding. An ITP patient with an extremely low count is vulnerable to internal bleeding caused by blunt abdominal trauma, as might be experienced in a motor vehicle crash. These complications are not likely when the platelet count is above 20,000 per μl.\n\nIn approximately 60 percent of cases, antibodies against platelets can be detected.  Most often these antibodies are against platelet membrane glycoproteins IIb-IIIa or Ib-IX, and are of the immunoglobulin G (IgG) type. The Harrington–Hollingsworth experiment, established the immune pathogenesis of ITP.\n\nThe coating of platelets with IgG renders them susceptible to opsonization and phagocytosis by splenic macrophages, as well by Kupffer cells in the liver.  The IgG autoantibodies are also thought to damage megakaryocytes, the precursor cells to platelets, although this is believed to contribute only slightly to the decrease in platelet numbers.  Recent research now indicates that impaired production of the glycoprotein hormone thrombopoietin, which is the stimulant for platelet production, may be a contributing factor to the reduction in circulating platelets.  This observation has led to the development of a class of ITP-targeted medications referred to as thrombopoietin receptor agonists.\n\nThe stimulus for auto-antibody production in ITP is probably abnormal T cell activity.  Preliminary findings suggest that these T cells can be influenced by medications that target B cells, such as rituximab.\n\nThe diagnosis of ITP is a process of exclusion.  First, it has to be determined that there are no blood abnormalities other than a low platelet count, and no physical signs other than bleeding.  Then, secondary causes (5–10 percent of suspected ITP cases) should be excluded.  Such secondary causes include leukemia, medications (e.g., quinine, heparin), lupus erythematosus, cirrhosis, HIV, hepatitis C, congenital causes, antiphospholipid syndrome, von Willebrand factor deficiency, onyalai and others.  In approximately one percent of cases, autoimmune hemolytic anemia and ITP coexist, a condition referred to as Evans syndrome, a condition that points to CLL as a possible cause.\n\nDespite the destruction of platelets by splenic macrophages, the spleen is normally not enlarged.  In fact, an enlarged spleen should lead to a search for other possible causes for the thrombocytopenia.  Bleeding time is usually prolonged in ITP patients.  However, the use of bleeding time in diagnosis is discouraged by the American Society of Hematology practice guidelines and a normal bleeding time does not exclude a platelet disorder.\n\nBone marrow examination may be performed on patients over the age of 60 and those who do not respond to treatment, or when the diagnosis is in doubt.  On examination of the marrow, an increase in the production of megakaryocytes may be observed and may help in establishing a diagnosis of ITP.  An analysis for anti-platelet antibodies is a matter of clinician's preference, as there is disagreement on whether the 80 percent specificity of this test is sufficient to be clinically useful.\n\nWith rare exceptions, there is usually no need to treat based on platelet counts. Many older recommendations suggested a certain platelet count threshold (usually somewhere below 20.0/µl) as an indication for hospitalization or treatment. Current guidelines recommend treatment only in cases of significant bleeding.\nTreatment recommendations sometimes differ for adult and pediatric ITP.\n\nInitial treatment usually consists of the administration of corticosteroids, a group of medications that suppress the immune system. The dose and mode of administration is determined by platelet count and whether there is active bleeding: in urgent situations, infusions of dexamethasone or methylprednisolone may be used, while oral prednisone or prednisolone may suffice in less severe cases. Once the platelet count has improved, the dose of steroid is gradually reduced while the possibility of relapse is monitored. 60–90 percent will experience a relapse during dose reduction or cessation. Long-term steroids are avoided if possible because of potential side-effects that include osteoporosis, diabetes and cataracts.\n\nAnother option, suitable for Rh-positive patients with functional spleens is intravenous administration of Rho(D) immune globulin [Human; Anti-D]. The mechanism of action of anti-D is not fully understood. However, following administration, anti-D-coated red blood cell complexes saturate Fcγ receptor sites on macrophages, resulting in preferential destruction of red blood cells (RBCs), therefore sparing antibody-coated platelets. There are two anti-D products indicated for use in patients with ITP: WinRho SDF and Rhophylac. The most common adverse reactions are headache (15%), nausea/vomiting (12%) chills (<2%) and fever (1%).\n\nThere is increasing use of immunosuppressants such as mycophenolate mofetil and azathioprine because of their effectiveness. In chronic refractory cases, where immune pathogenesis has been confirmed, the off-label use of the \"vinca\" alkaloid and chemotherapy agent vincristine may be attempted. However, vincristine has significant side effects and its use in treating ITP must be approached with caution, especially in children.\n\nIntravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) may be infused in some cases in order to decrease the rate at which macrophages consume antibody-tagged platelets.  However, while sometimes effective, it is costly and produces improvement that generally lasts less than a month.  Nevertheless, in the case of an ITP patient already scheduled for surgery who has a dangerously low platelet count and has experienced a poor response to other treatments, IVIg can rapidly increase platelet counts, and can also help reduce the risk of major bleeding by transiently increasing platelet counts.\n\nThrombopoietin receptor agonists are pharmaceutical agents that stimulate platelet production in the bone marrow. In this, they differ from the previously discussed agents that act by attempting to curtail platelet destruction. Two such products are currently available:\n\n\nSide effects of thrombopoietin receptor agonists include headache, joint or muscle pain, dizziness, nausea or vomiting, and an increased risk of blood clots.\n\nSplenectomy (removal of the spleen) may be considered in patients who are either unresponsive to steroid treatment, have frequent relapses, or cannot be tapered off steroids after a few months. Platelets which have been bound by antibodies are taken up by macrophages in the spleen (which have Fc receptors), and so removal of the spleen reduces platelet destruction.  The procedure is potentially risky in ITP cases due to the increased possibility of significant bleeding during surgery.  Durable remission following splenectomy is achieved in 75 percent of ITP cases. The use of splenectomy to treat ITP has diminished since the development of steroid therapy and other pharmaceutical remedies.\n\nPlatelet transfusion alone is normally not recommended except in an emergency, and is usually unsuccessful in producing a long-term platelet count increase.  This is because the underlying autoimmune mechanism that is destroying the patient's platelets will also destroy donor platelets, and so platelet transfusions are \"not\" considered a long-term treatment option.\n\nIn adults, particularly those living in areas with a high prevalence of \"Helicobacter pylori\" (which normally inhabits the stomach wall and has been associated with peptic ulcers), identification and treatment of this infection has been shown to improve platelet counts in a third of patients. In a fifth, the platelet count normalized completely; this response rate is similar to that found in treatment with rituximab, which is more expensive and less safe. In children, this approach is not supported by evidence, except in high prevalence areas. Urea breath testing and stool antigen testing perform better than serology-based tests; moreover, serology may be false-positive after treatment with IVIG.\n\n\nA normal platelet count is considered to be in the range of 150,000–450,000 per microlitre (μl) of blood for most healthy individuals.  Hence one may be considered thrombocytopenic below that range, although the threshold for a diagnosis of ITP is not tied to any specific number.\n\nThe incidence of ITP is estimated at 50–100 new cases per million per year, with children accounting for half of that amount.  At least 70 percent of childhood cases will end up in remission within six months, even without treatment.  Moreover, a third of the remaining chronic cases will usually remit during follow-up observation, and another third will end up with only mild thrombocytopenia (defined as a platelet count above 50,000). A number of immune related genes and polymorphisms have been identified as influencing predisposition to ITP, with FCGR3a-V158 allele and KIRDS2/DL2 increasing susceptibility and KIR2DS5 shown to be protective.\n\nITP is usually chronic in adults and the probability of durable remission is 20–40 percent.  The male to female ratio in the adult group varies from 1:1.2 to 1.7 in most age ranges (childhood cases are roughly equal for both genders) and the median age of adults at the diagnosis is 56–60.  The ratio between male and female adult cases tends to widen with age.  In the United States, the adult chronic population is thought to be approximately 60,000—with women outnumbering men approximately 2 to 1, which has resulted in ITP being designated an orphan disease.\n\nThe mortality rate due to chronic ITP varies but tends to be higher relative to the general population for any age range.  In a study conducted in Great Britain, it was noted that ITP causes an approximately 60 percent higher rate of mortality compared to gender- and age-matched subjects without ITP.  This increased risk of death with ITP is largely concentrated in the middle-aged and elderly.  Ninety-six percent of reported ITP-related deaths were individuals 45 years or older.  No significant difference was noted in the rate of survival between males and females.\n\nAnti-platelet autoantibodies in a pregnant woman with ITP will attack the patient's own platelets and will also cross the placenta and react against fetal platelets. Therefore, ITP is a significant cause of fetal and neonatal immune thrombocytopenia. Approximately 10% of newborns affected by ITP will have platelet counts <50,000/uL and 1% to 2% will have a risk of intracerebral hemorrhage comparable to infants with neonatal alloimmune thrombocytopenia (NAIT).\n\nNo lab test can reliably predict if neonatal thrombocytopenia will occur. The risk of neonatal thrombocytopenia is increased with:\n\nIt is recommended that pregnant women with thrombocytopenia or a previous diagnosis of ITP should be tested for serum antiplatelet antibodies. A woman with symptomatic thrombocytopenia and an identifiable antiplatelet antibody should be started on therapy for their ITP which may include steroids or IVIG. Fetal blood analysis to determine the platelet count is not generally performed as ITP-induced thrombocytopenia in the fetus is generally less severe than NAIT. Platelet transfusions may be performed in newborns, depending on the degree of thrombocytopenia. It is recommended that neonates be followed with serial platelet counts for the first few days after birth.\n\nAfter initial reports by the Portuguese physician Amato Lusitano in 1556 and Lazarus de la Rivière (physician to the King of France) in 1658, it was the German physician and poet Paul Gottlieb Werlhof who in 1735 wrote the most complete initial report of the purpura of ITP. Platelets were unknown at the time. The name \"Werlhof's disease\" was used more widely before the current descriptive name became more popular. Platelets were described in the early 19th century, and in the 1880s several investigators linked the purpura with abnormalities in the platelet count. The first report of a successful therapy for ITP was in 1916, when a young Polish medical student, Paul Kaznelson, described a female patient's response to a splenectomy. Splenectomy remained a first-line remedy until the introduction of steroid therapy in the 1950s.\n"}
{"id": "52244033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52244033", "title": "Ley Orgánica de Protección de Datos de Carácter Personal", "text": "Ley Orgánica de Protección de Datos de Carácter Personal\n\nThe Organic law 15/1999 of December 13 about protection of Personal Data, (LOPD), is an organic law Spanish that guarantees and protects the processing of personal data, public liberties and fundamental human rights, and especially of their personal and family honor and privacy. It was approved by the General Court on December 13, 1999. This law is developed based on Article 18 of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, on familiar and personalright to privacy and the secrecy of communications.\n\nIts main objective is to regulate the treatment of data and files, of a personal nature, regardless of the support in which they are treated, the rights of citizens over them and the obligations of those who create or treat them. This law affects all data that refers to registered humans on any support, computer or otherwise. Excluded from this regulation are those data collected for domestic use, classified materials of the state and those files that collect data on Terrorism and other forms of organized crime (not simple delinquency).\n\nBased on this law, the Spanish Agency for Data Protection was created, at the state level, which ensures compliance with this Law.\n\n\nThe body responsible for monitoring compliance with data protection regulations at Spanish territory, in general, is the Spanish Agency for Data Protection (AEPD), \n\nThe sanctions are divided into three groups depending on the seriousness of the act committed, Spain being the country of the European Union that has the highest sanctions in terms of protection of data. These sanctions depend on the violation committed. The last company sanctioned has been the company Grupon, sanctioned by the state data protection agency, with 20 000 euros for storing the CVV codes of the Credit cards from their customers without informing them.\n\nThey are divided into:\n\nDespite the amount of sanctions, there are many companies in Spain that have not yet adapted to it, or have done so in a partial manner or do not periodically review its adequacy; so that, maintenance and review of the adequacy carried out is essential.\n\nIn the public sector, the mentioned Law also regulates the use and management of information and files with personal data used by all public administrations.\n\nThe Spanish Agency for Data Protection (AEPD) was created in 1994 in accordance with the provisions of the repealed LORTAD. Its headquarters are located in Madrid, although the Autonomous Communities of Madrid, the Basque Country and Catalonia have created their own autonomous Agencies.\n\nIn 2012 complaints filed with the AEPD, increased by 12%. The activity of the Agency has grown significantly in 2012, with an increase of 15% in the files registered and almost 40% in the resolutions issued. The allegations of identity theft, especially in the supply and commercialization of energy and water (222%) and in telecommunications (92%), have experienced a substantial increase. Of the 863 infringement decisions declared to private managers, more than 34% concluded in a warning, without imposing a penalty. On the other hand, most of the sanctions affect the telecommunications sector, which represents 73% of the total. Three of the main operators accumulate 70.94% of the total amount of fines.\n\nIn 2011, reported complaints were 51.6% higher than those filed in 2010. This increase is also reflected in the increase in declaratory resolutions of infringement of 37.7%. However, the application of the figure of the warning has determined a decrease of 14.5% in the declared economic sanctions. The sector where sanctions have increased most (64%) and have been declared to a greater extent (25.5%) and amount, (63%) is that of telecommunications. The amount of sanctions has grown by 12% compared to 2010.\n\nIn 2009 they increased by more than 75% of the complaints received, which reached the figure of 4,136, and the number of requests for protection of rights, by 58%. 709 sanctioning procedures were resolved, of which 621 ended with sanction with a total amount of 24.8 million euros.\n\nSource: Memory of the Spanish Agency for Data Protection (AEPD) for the years 2007, 2008, 2009.\n\nIn 2008 the number of facts reported to the AEPD (together with officio investigations initiated) increased by more than 45%, reaching the value of 2362. AEPD resolved in 2008 a total of 630 sanctioning procedures, almost 58% more than in 2007, of which 535 culminated with the imposition of sanctions. The fines imposed amounted to 22.6 million euros, representing an increase of 15% over the previous year.\n\nThe number of procedures solved of declarations of infraction committed by the public administrations rose in 2008 almost 20% with respect to the previous year, going from 66 to 79, of which 59 ended with a declaration of infraction.\n\nIn 2007 the Spanish Agency for Data Protection resolved 399 sanctioning procedures, increasing by 32.5% with respect to the previous year. The economic sanctions imposed by the AEPD amounted to 19 600 000 euros.\n\nThe Data Protection Agency of the Community of Madrid carried out 196 inspection procedures and 32 procedures for the protection of rights in 2007.\n\nThe Basque Data Protection Agency-Datuak Babesteko Euskal Bulegoa (AVDP-DBEB), resolved 43 complaints and 18 infringement procedures in 2007.\n\nThe Ibero-American Data Protection Network (RIPD), since its creation in 2003, has developed an intense and fruitful work, such as the organization of ten meetings. In addition to contributing to that more than 150 million Latin American citizens currently have, along with the traditional protection of habeas data, rules that allow to effectively guarantee the use of their personal information and specialized authorities with powers to protect said guarantee.\n\nIn Latin America policies are being developed for the protection of personal data. In 2012 two new laws were approved. In Nicaragua, Law No. 787 of Protection of Personal Data, of March 29, 2012 and Statutory Law No. 1581 of October 17, 2012, by which general provisions for the Protection of Personal Data are issued.\n\nIn Chile, also Law 19.628, of August 28, 1999, on Protection of Private Life, is currently in the process of reviewing part of its articles.\n\nThe National Assembly of Venezuela is processing the bill for the Protection of Personal Data of Habeas Data. And in Costa Rica there is already a Data Protection Agency of the Republic of Costa Rica, in compliance with the law approved in 2011.\n\nPersonal data are classified according to their greater or lesser degree of sensitivity, being the legal requirements and computer security measures more stringent in terms of this greater degree of sensitivity, being mandatory on the other hand, in any case the declaration of the data protection files to the \"Spanish Agency for Data Protection\".\n\nInterested parties to which personal data are requested must be previously informed in an express, precise and unambiguous way:\n\n1. The existence of a file or treatment of personal data, the purpose of the collection of these and the recipients of the information.\n\n2. Of the obligatory or optional character of his answer to the questions that are posed to them.\n\n3. The consequences of obtaining the data or the refusal to supply them.\n\n4. Of the possibility of exercising rights of access, rectification, cancellation and opposition.\n\n5. The identity and address of the person responsible for the treatment or, if applicable, his representative.\n\nHowever, the processing of personal data without having been collected directly from the affected party or interested party is permitted, although it is not exempted from the obligation to report expressly, accurately and unequivocally, by the person responsible for the file or its representative, within of the three months following the start of data processing.\n\nException: Communication in three months of such information will not be necessary if the data has been collected from \"sources accessible to the public\", and are intended for advertising or commercial prospecting , in this case \"in each communication addressed to the interested party, he will be informed of the origin of the data and the identity of the person responsible for the treatment, as well as the rights that assist him\".\n\n\nThis could be a model clause of information / consent of rights protected by the LOPD:\n\n\n\nA) Unmistakable consent\n\nThe treatment of personal data will require the unambiguous consent of the affected party, unless the law provides otherwise.\n\nB) Tacit Consent\n\nThis will be the normal form of consent in cases where an express or express consent is not required in writing.\n\nC) Express consent\n\nPersonal data referring to racial origin, health and sexual life may only be collected, processed and assigned when, for reasons of general interest, it is provided by a law or the person expressly consents.\n\nD) Express and written consent\n\nExpress consent is required in writing from the affected party regarding data related to ideology, union affiliation, religion and beliefs and may only be transferred with express consent.\n\nThey have responsibility in the communication and treatment of data not only the legal persons (companies) but also freelancers, freelancers, associations, collectives and people who own a blog (bloggers) through from which data from third parties are collected to make queries and for any other transaction.\n\nThe personal data object of the treatment can only be communicated to a third party for the fulfillment of purposes directly related to the legitimate functions of the transferor and the transferee with the prior consent of the interested party.\n\nThe consent required in the previous section will not be precise:\n\nThe consent for the communication of personal data to a third party will be void when the information provided to the interested party does not allow him to know the purpose to which the data will be destined whose communication is authorized or the type of activity of the person to whom it is sent. They intend to communicate.\n\nThe consent for the communication of personal data also has a revocable nature.\n\nThe one to whom the personal data are communicated is obliged, by the mere fact of the communication, to observe the provisions of this Law.\n\nIf the communication is made prior to the dissociation procedure, the provisions of the previous sections will not apply.\n\n\nCertain aspects of the law were declared unconstitutional in November 2000 and deleted from the current text.\n\nIt is considered that the increase in the creation of files and processing of personal data affects the right to protection of citizens' data; This concern was picked up by the European bodies that even ordered that January 28 be held annually on \"European Data Protection Day\". The celebration dates back to 2006, when the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe established the annual celebration of the Data Protection Day in Europe on January 28, commemorating the anniversary of the signing of Convention 108 of the Council of Europe for the protection of persons with regard to the automated processing of personal data.\n\nA very strict compliance with the regulation on data protection could slow down the normal work of a File Manager for the documentary accreditation of the information and consent principles of the LOPD; also in the opposite direction, a mere fulfillment of formal obligations, would leave the law senseless and the citizens unprotected and go against the \"spirit\" of the LOPD.\n\nThe possibility that companies can collect data without the consent of the affected has been criticized.\n\nCertain resolutions of the AEPD have been reason for controversy:\n\n\n\nTranslation of :\"LOPD in Spanish\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16019866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16019866", "title": "Lift irrigation", "text": "Lift irrigation\n\nLift irrigation is a method of irrigation in which water is not transported by natural flow, (as in gravity-fed canal) but is lifted with pumps or surge pools etc.\n\nLift irrigation schemes must accomplish two main tasks: first, to carry water by means of pumps or other way, from the water source to the main delivery chamber, which is situated at the top most point in the command area. Second. they must distribute this water to the field of the beneficiary farmers by means of a suitable and proper distribution.\nSo that in Lift Irrigation system, the gravity flow of water by canals or river is not available or used.\n\nOf these two issues, distribution is the most complex, for several reasons. First, whereas the system for collecting water at the main delivery chamber makes use of pumps, the distribution system is typically completely gravity-based, and have to be designed solely on the basis of the available hydraulic head. In addition, the area to be irrigated is scattered and has varying topography, and each farm is of a different size, so it can be a challenge to design a gravity-based system that allots each farmer a fair amount of water. Several mechanisms have been developed to meet these challenges.\n\nIn the most prevalent system, the area under irrigation is divided into different blocks according to topography determined by contour plan. The water requirement for each block is determined, and pipe lines are designed for these blocks depending on the available head and required discharge. Field delivery chambers are then constructed on the distribution pipe lines, and valves are fitted to control the flow of the pipe lines, with flow from the main delivery chamber controlled by these valves. In this system, lines for lower fields have more discharge, because the force of gravity is greater, so water distribution can be unequal.\n\nIn other systems, the area is divided into three or four equal parts, and each part is given the entire discharge for one day. This means each part gets rotation of the full design discharge on the fourth or fifth day. Again, however, water distribution can be unequal, and alternate methods of distribution have been proposed to deal with this problem.\n\nIn LI water is lifted from lower level to higher level with the help of pumps and other equipment.\nConstruction of dams and canals helped tremendously to increase the irrigated area lying at lower level than the dam level, but scarcity of water remained the problem for higher level areas. So as to bring higher level area under irrigation L.I.S. are taken up.The 8% of Maharashtra irrigation is occupied by lift irrigation.\n\n\nIn India, the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development reports that there are 1401 lift irrigation schemes financed by them. These schemes irrigate 22000 hectares of land, and have a total financial outlay of Rs. 6462.5 million. However, as many as 573 of these schemes are defunct, mainly due to poor distribution of water. Other schemes have been financed by the government, sugar factories, or individual farmers. \n\nWater shortage is a huge predicament for a country like India which still relies on monsoon rains for much of its agricultural practices. As weather patterns become increasingly uncertain with time, most likely due to global warming, being prepared to cope with water shortages in the future is essential. Rural communities as well as huge population which are greatly affected by water scarcity are the people living in drought-prone areas or in semi-arid up-lands. Much of these disadvantaged areas are also inhibited by tribal villages in many parts of India and are also backward in agricultural practices. These tribal villages are mainly self-sustained in their living habits and rely heavily on the paddy crops for endurance. It is becoming progressively more intricate to maintain tribal lifestyle due to uncertain weather patterns resulting in dwindling of agricultural production over time and all the more increasing the burden on state to raise their standard of living in terms of food security, education, and health care. It is also seen, when time gets tough, villagers generally tend to migrate on a seasonal basis to seek other means of livelihood. Such seasonal migration of entire village population also affects their settled life hampering their children’s education as well as their access to other developmental support coming from state.\n\nIt is consequently important to help their agriculture instead in order to reduce the incidence of migration in such areas. This can only be achieved by ensuring there is sufficient crop to feed villagers and to sell at market to allow income generation. Irrigation is the essential input to the soil for any vegetation to grow. It is used to lend a hand in the growing of agricultural crops, maintenance of landscapes, and potentials of vegetation by restoring humidity / humus in depleted soils of dry areas and during periods of insufficient rainfall. Additionally, irrigation also has a few other uses in crop production, which include shielding plants against frost, suppressing weed and wild vegetation in grain fields and helping in preventing soil conservation. In contrast, agriculture that relies only on direct rainfall is referred to as rain-fed agriculture, or if it falls in semi-arid regions, it is called dry land farming. Irrigation is often studied together with drainage, which is the natural or artificial removal of surface and sub-surface water from a given area. Various types of irrigation techniques differ in how the water obtained from the source, and is distributed within the field. In general, the aim is to supply water homogeneously to the entire field, so that each land patch has enough amount of water it needs, neither too much nor too little. Irrigation Schemes primarily comprises canal irrigation and lift irrigation schemes. In such schemes, the most important and yet the most neglected part is the local ownership and institutions of farmers taking operative and m responsibilities.\n\nThe main purpose of the irrigation reform programme in Andhra Pradesh is to improve the sustainability and productivity of irrigation through sharing irrigation management responsibility with the farmers organized as Water Users Associations. Towards this the State government enacted the Andhra Pradesh Farmers Management of Irrigation System Act in 1997. Presently, water users’ organizations under the APFMIS Act is constituted at three different levels in major irrigation projects - Water Users Associations (WUAs) at the minor canal level, Distributor Committees (DCs) at the distributor canal level and Project Committee (PCs) at the main canal level. In medium irrigation project they are constituted at two levels – WUA at the minor canal level and PC at the main canal level. In minor irrigation tanks only a WUA is constituted covering the whole tank command. A total of 10,748 WUAs have been constituted – 2261 in major irrigation projects, 410 in medium irrigation projects and 8077 in minor irrigation tanks.\n\nThe water users’ organizations undertake the responsibilities of seasonal crop planning and irrigation water regulation, O&M works on canal system and assist in tax collection. To facilitate the functioning of the water users’ organizations the State government re-ploughs 100% of the irrigation water tax collected from them. The water tax collection and plough back for O&M to water users’ organizations over the last 5 years is given in the Table below:\n\nIn Andhra Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh State Irrigation Development Corporation (APSIDC) was established in 1974 to exploit the ground and surface water potential through lifts in a big way. Till now APSIDC has constructed around 1150 Lift Irrigation Schemes, creating an irrigation potential of 430000 acres. There are several LIS constructed by Irrigation & Power Department, private farmers and farmer societies, creating an irrigation potential of about 2,70,000 acres. The schemes constructed by I & P D are being maintained by the department even now. APSIDC has constructed some schemes with the share capital (25%) given by the government and the balance 75% capital raised through Nationalized banks refinanced by NABARD. These schemes were maintained by APSIDC (IDC) till 1995. Later all these schemes were either handed over to the farmer's societies for maintenance or kept under lock and key. Some other schemes were constructed by IDC on agency basis as deposit works. These were handed over either to the beneficiary societies or sponsoring agencies for maintenance after commissioning.\n\nThere are several parameters influencing the maintainability of LIS by the beneficiaries. The inter and intra village rivalries, the empowerment and social involvement levels of the farmers, the electricity tariff rates (now it has been made free), quality and quantity of power supply, the quality and performance of different components of the LIS and the performance of whole LIS as a system etc.\nThe Tyullar LIS was handed over to the beneficiaries during 2008. The scheme is being maintained by the beneficiaries successfully from 2008.\n\nThe profit and loss statement of the Tyullar LI Society shows that income over expenditure in the last 3 years is Rs 22, 12,551/- The society is cash rich and ready to meet any un-expected expenditure due to any contingency in the scheme. This ensures sustainability of maintenance by the society.\n\nOne of the main issues confronting irrigation system transfer is to decide on who would pay the cost of operation and maintenance of the system. APSIDC has handed over the LI schemes to Farmer’s Associations to operate, maintain and manage.\nThe Farmers’ Association members, who take over a scheme, will sign an agreement among themselves to share water as well as the cost of operation and maintenance equitably. The basis of each family’s contribution will be worked out by the members and included in the annex to the MOA between the FA and APSIDC. The SO will facilitate this process and may sign as a witness.\n\nCapacity Building and community organization are the most important factors in strengthening the Lift Irrigation Societies. There are many defunct LI Schemes existing in Andhra Pradesh, the main reason is the stakeholders did not have the capacity to run by themselves as per the guidelines envisaged. Therefore, the AP State Irrigation Development Corporation has decided to entrust the aspect of Social Engineering component to the identified NGO’s (Support Organization) with a view to make the scheme sustainable.\n"}
{"id": "32473346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32473346", "title": "List of countries by past and future population (United Nations)", "text": "List of countries by past and future population (United Nations)\n\nList of countries by past and future population (United Nations) may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "61796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61796", "title": "List of diseases (Z)", "text": "List of diseases (Z)\n\nThis is a list of diseases starting with the letter \"Z\".\n"}
{"id": "14386603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14386603", "title": "Maintenance therapy", "text": "Maintenance therapy\n\nMaintenance therapy is a medical therapy that is designed to help a primary treatment succeed. For example, maintenance chemotherapy may be given to people who have a cancer in remission in an attempt to prevent a relapse. This form of treatment is also a common approach for the management of many incurable, chronic diseases such as periodontal disease, Crohn's disease or ulcerative colitis.\n\n"}
{"id": "349340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349340", "title": "Men's Health", "text": "Men's Health\n\nMen's Health (MH), published by Rodale Inc. in Emmaus, Pennsylvania, United States, is the world's largest men's magazine brand, with 35 editions in 59 countries. It is also the best-selling men's magazine on U.S. newsstands. Although originally started as a men's health magazine, it currently covers various men's lifestyle topics such as fitness, nutrition, fashion, and sexuality. The magazine's website, MensHealth.com, averages over 118 million page views a month.\n\nStarted by Mark Bricklin in 1986 as a health magazine, \"Men's Health\" evolved into a lifestyle magazine, covering fitness, nutrition, relationships, travel, technology, fashion, and finance. Bricklin, Rodale editors Larry Stains and Stefan Bechtel produced three newsstand test issues. The results led Rodale to start \"Men's Health\" as a quarterly magazine in 1988 and begin to sell subscriptions. Bricklin, who was editor-in-chief of \"Prevention\" magazine, appointed Mike Lafavore as editor of \"Men's Health\" that year. In his 12 years as editor-in-chief, Lafavore increased the circulation from 100,000 to over 1.5 million, increased publication to ten 10 times a year, and expanded the magazine to Australia, France, Germany, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, and the UK.\n\nHe created the editorial formula, hired Steven Slon from service journalism and Greg Gutfeld from \"Prevention\". He worked with longtime staff editor Denis Boyles, a former \"Playboy\" contributing editor, to develop the magazine's voice. Lafavore left \"Men's Health\" in 2000, the same year Capell's Circulation Report named the magazine Circulation Performer of the Decade. He named Gutfeld his successor. After one year, Gutfeld was replaced by David Zinczenko.\n\nZinczenko became editor-in-chief in 2000. Circulation increased 30 percent, ad pages by 80 percent from 700 to 1150. In 2000, the brand had 21 international editions. In 2001 the title was consistently selling 400,000 copies at newsstands and circulation was 1.6 million. In 2001, the magazine started the annual list of cities with the healthiest men, based on twenty \"live-long parameters, including death rates (both homicide and disease); illness rates (high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, etc.); body-mass index; fitness training; even environmental factors like number of parks, golf courses, etc.\" In 2003, the circulation was 1.7 million. In 2006, the circulation was close to 1.8 million.\n\n\"Men's Health\" magazine has been criticized for its focus on physical health, which can increase men's anxieties about their bodies, making them more prone to eating disorders and compulsive over-exercising. \"The New York Times\" stated, \"Since its debut in the late 1980's, the magazine has surpassed traditional men's books like \"Esquire\" and \"GQ\" by following the formula of best-selling women's magazines—by catering to men's anxieties about their bodies and sexual performance.\" \"Columbia Journalism Review\" stated the magazine \"deals overwhelmingly with self-care and, in fact, exaggerates the possibilities for autonomous personal transformation.\" Editor-In-Chief Zinczenko argued that the magazine worked toward \"overcoming the resistance of the 86-percent male audience to health as a subject\" and redefining health as \"inclusive of everything that could improve a man's life. Great sex. Great food. Endorphin-boosting exercise. Looking and feeling your best. We turned health into a concept every guy would want to embrace, starting with the healthy guy on the cover.\"\n\n\"Men's Health\" has been criticized for reusing cover taglines. Zinczenko replied that 80 percent of magazine sales are by subscription, and those covers differ from the newsstand version. \"Twenty years of \"Men's Health\" has certainly produced several lines that have proven themselves effective at newsstand, which makes up about 20 percent of our print run. We plan to keep using the most effective marketing tools to reach the largest market we possibly can.\" In July 2010, the magazine was criticized for including tiny credit lines on the cover rather than inside as a possible quid-pro-quo for advertisers. Zinczenko said the lines saved readers from having to dig for information and that \"Men's Health\" had been including the lines for over a year regardless of advertiser status. A spokesperson for the American Society of Magazine Editors said that no rules were broken. The director for print strategy at a media firm said the mention was \"too small of a plug to get brands excited.\"\n\nIn 2004, \"Men's Health\" began putting celebrities and athletes on the cover, and with their shirts on—a departure from the covers of the 1990s. In 2004, Rodale filed suit against \"Men's Fitness\" for its redesign, \"a copycat version—one that is obviously intended to confuse consumers.\" In May 2006, the magazine published a limited edition color cover of Josh Holloway. In the first half of 2006, newsstand sales for \"Men's Health\" rose from 492,000 to 544,000 during a price increase from $3.95 to $4.50. In 2006 Rodale's properties, including \"Men's Health\", tried to increase online content by adding video to each section, telling section editors to write blogs, and hiring an online ad sales director.\n\nIn 2008, the magazine partnered with Google to make back issues available. In July 2008, \"Men's Health\" became the first to \"create the first fully interactive advertising magazine in America,\" where readers could take a picture of an ad, and a promotional \"bounce-back\" was sent to their phone. For its 20th anniversary issue in November 2008, \"Men's Health\" included an interview and photo shoot with president-elect Barack Obama. In 2010, Obama was again featured about health care and his plans.\n\nIn 2009, \"Men's Health\" published \"Belly Off! Diet\" based on the weight-loss testimonial column in the magazine. The column \"Eat This, Not That!\" became a book series in 2007, written by Zinczenko and Matt Goulding), and was turned into different versions (children, supermarket, restaurant, diet book) and free iPhone applications. EatThis.MensHealth.com was the most highly trafficked section of MensHealth.com in 2009 with 1 million unique visitors and 15 million page views a month.\n\nEditor-in-chief Matt Bean led the magazine in developing over 40 mobile apps for the iPhone, Android, and BlackBerry. \"Eat This, Not That! The Game\" won an American Society of Magazine Editors award for Best Interactive Tool and was downloaded 500,000 times in two weeks. The magazine's first application, \"Men's Health Workouts\", was in the top 10 in the Health and Fitness category. In September 2009, the column \"Ask Jimmy the Bartender\" was turned into an iPhone and iPad application, which was downloaded 50,000 times in its first month. In 2010, \"Men's Health\" became one of the first consumer magazines to enter the iPad market.\n\nIn 2011, David Zinczenko was replaced by Bill Phillips, who was the executive editor of the magazine and editor of MensHealth.com.\n\nIn November 2014, \"Men's Health\" featured a reader on the cover for the first time with amputee and veteran Noah Galloway, the winner of the first Ultimate \"Men's Health\" Guy Search.\n\nIn February 2015, \"Men's Health\" won the National Magazine Award for General Excellence.\n\nIn 2016, Matt Bean became editor-in-chief. He redesigned the magazine with visual updates inspired by media, such as auto repair guides, hiking maps, and military field manuals, added \"The Exchange\", \"Unfiltered\", \"Field Guide\", and a column by Tim Ferriss. He introduced the digital franchise MH Longform. In October 2017 \"Men's Health\" began the cross-platform series \"The Adventurist\" in partnership with Fitbit.\n\nIn 2000 \"MH-18\", a youth-oriented version of \"Men's Health\" covering teen lifestyle, was spun off but ceased publication in November 2001.\n\nIn 2004 under Zinczenko's direction, \"Men's Health\" spun off \"Best Life.\" May 2009 was \"Best Life\"'s last issue. \"Best Life\" was published 10 times a year and had a circulation of more than 500,000. Stephen Perrine, the former editorial creative director at \"Men's Health\", was the editor-in-chief. David Zinczenko was editorial director. In March 2008, \"Best Life\" finished #2 on Adweek's prestigious \"10 under 50\" Hot List, which recognizes magazines with fewer than $50 million in ad revenue.\n\nIn 2005, \"Men's Health\" spun off \"Women's Health\". The test-issue team was headed by Bill Stump, a former \"Men's Health\" editor who was then the head of Rodale Inc.'s New Product Development department, and included former director of new product development Andréa Mallard. Within a year the circulation was at 750,000. \"Women's Health\" magazine is now published 10 times a year. In January 2009, Michele Promaulayko was named editor-in-chief of \"Women's Health.\" In March 2008, \"Women's Health\" finished #1 on Adweek's \"10 under 50\" Hot List. The magazine was named #2 on Advertising Age's 2008 A List. \"Women's Health\" has a circulation of 1.1 million.\n\nIn 2007, \"Men's Health\" spun off \"Men's Health Living\", a newsstand special which was named one of the 30 most notable launches of 2007 by Samir Husni. Samir Husni stated that \"Men's Health Living\" is a \"new genre of men's magazines that cater to non-woman related issues in a man's life - that has gone unfulfilled for years: interior design and home that meets the needs of the affluent man.\" The test issue of \"Men's Health Living\" was edited by Bill Phillips, executive editor of \"Men's Health\", and Matt Bean. The first issue sold around 200,000 copies at $4.99 each out of 375,000 sent to newsstands. In January 2009, a second \"Men's Health Living\" issue was at newsstands, 450,000 copies at $5.99 each.\n\nIn 2007, they also spun off \"Men's Health on Campus\" as a test with a goal for quarterly publication thereafter.\n\nIn 2009, \"Men's Health\" spun off \"Children's Health\", a special issue that was part of a Rodale publishing idea to work with President and First Lady Obama to show support for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. The magazine published how-to stories about fitness and nutrition for children.\n\nIn 2013, \"Men's Health\" launched the radio show \"Men's Health Live\" in partnership with Entertainment Radio Network.\n\nIn April 2017, under Matt Bean, \"Men's Health\" released an online video franchise, MH Films, which has featured people such as Hafþór Björnsson, Erik Weihenmayer and Sam Calagione. In June 2017, the magazine launched MH Rec Room, specializing in shorter videos for social media featuring various fitness trainers, lifestyle influencers and authors.\n\nIn March 1994, \"Advertising Age\" magazine named Mike Lafavore Editor of the Year. [March 6, 1994]. Four years later he won the International Herald Tribune Award for International Editor of the Year for his work on \"Men's Health\" foreign editions. The magazine was nominated for several National Magazine Awards, including General Excellence. Since 2000, \"Men's Health\" has been nominated for 17 National Magazine Awards, or \"Ellies,\" which are administrated by Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism and presented by the American Society of Magazine Editors.\n\n\"Men's Health\" won the category of Personal Service in 2004, the first win for the magazine and Rodale. In 2010, \"Men's Health\" received the General Excellence award. Menshealth.com's \"Eat This, Not That!\" portion of their Web site won the 2010 Digital Ellies award, also sponsored by the ASME, for best Interactive Tool, an award honoring the outstanding use of interactive tools that enable readers to create or share content, participate in communities, improve the quality of their lives, or enjoy recreational activities. In 2010, Minonline.com deemed menshealth.com's personal trainer channel, the \"Best Premium Site,\" an award recognizing subscription sites oriented around service. In 2011, \"Men's Health\" won an \"Ad Age\" Media Vanguard Award in the Print-to-Digital Best Reader-Service Website category, a Society of Publication Designers Award for design and photography, and an ASME Ellie in the category of Personal Service for \"I Want My Prostate Back\" by Larry Stains. It was also a finalist in the 2012 Ellies.\n\nIn 2012 \"Men's Health\" won the Digital Magazine Awards' Magazine Launch of the Year for its iPhone edition and a 2012 National Magazine Award in the Personal Service, Digital Media category for \"Skin Cancer Center\".\n\nIn 2013 \"Men's Health\" won the James Beard Foundation Book, Broadcast and Journalism Awards for Cooking/Recipes/Instruction and Food Coverage in General Interest Publication categories. The brand was recognized as one of min’s Top 20 Magazines on Twitter and the \"Men's Health\" \"Guy Gourmet\" Twitter account was included in the \"TIME\" 140 Best Twitter Feeds of 2013. \"Men's Health\" won min's Best of the Web award for Overall Digital Excellence and FAME's Best Series of Events Award for its URBANATHALON series. The brand was included in iMonitor's Best Magazine Apps for iPad list.\n\nIn 2015 \"Men's Health\" won first place in the Service category for the American Society of Journalists and Authors (ASJA)'s Writing Awards for the article \"Clucked\" by Rachael Moeller Gorman, a min Best of the Web & Digital Award in the “Integration with Print” category, and a FOLIO: Marketing Award in the “Integrated Program” category for the Men’s Health Next Top Trainer Program. The magazine also won in the \"Lifestyle\" category for the American Society of Magazine Editors' Best Cover Awards, for its November 2014 cover. It was named Reader’s Choice for men's health/fitness magazines in \"Adweek's\" 2013, 2014, and 2015 Hot List, and both Editor's Choice and Reader's Choice for the 2016 Hot List.\n\nIt was also recognized in 2017 as an \"Ad Age\" magazine of the year. In March 2017 \"Men's Health\" was named a Print Medal Finalist for the Society of Publication Designers' Annual Design Competition Awards; it was also nominated in 2015 and 2016.\n\nAlthough \"Men's Health\" was founded in the U.S., its international editions have made it the world's largest men's magazine brand. These magazines reach over 71 million readers worldwide. \"Men's Health\" is published in 35 editions.\n\nInternational editions account for over 80% of the magazine's trade volume. In each market, local editors commission or purchase articles for their own market and share content with US and other editions. The selected articles are then translated and edited by local staffers to make them match the style of the American edition. Usually, these editions started out as translations of the US version of the magazine, but over time many non-US editions became unique, providing material more pertinent to local readers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2514193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514193", "title": "Multifocal technique", "text": "Multifocal technique\n\nMultifocal techniques are used in electroretinogram and visual evoked potential recordings to separate the responses originating from the stimulation of different locations in the visual field (and thus different retinal locations). \n\nThe concept is as follows: Each visual field location is stimulated with a stimulus sequence that is uncorrelated to the sequences used for the other locations. All visual field locations are stimulated in parallel with their individual stimulus sequence. The retinal or cortical activity, which is a mixture of the responses from all visual field locations, is recorded with usual electroretinographic or visual evoked potential methods, respectively. Due to the independence of the stimulus sequences, the responses for each visual field location can be extracted using mathematical algorithms.\n\nMutifocal techniques, in particular the multifocal ERG, are used in the diagnosis of ophthalmological diseases.\n"}
{"id": "13573749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13573749", "title": "National Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition", "text": "National Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition\n\nThe National Healthy Mothers, Healthy Babies Coalition (HMHB) was an American non-profit organization founded in 1981 in response to the US Surgeon General’s conference on infant mortality. The mission was to improve the quality and reach of public and professional education related to prenatal and infant care. The six lead organizations establishing HMHB were the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), the March of Dimes, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the American Nurses Association (ANA), the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, and the United States Public Health Service.\n\nHMHB’s mission evolved into a movement to improve the health and safety of mothers, babies and families through educational materials and collaborative partnerships. The coalition had membership of over 100 local, state and national organizations and does outreach, education and advocacy with healthcare professionals, parents and policymakers. Among the coalition’s goals: reducing infant mortality, premature birth and postpartum depression, as well as other health and safety issues facing mothers and infants.\n\nIn May 2015, the organization's operations moved to ZERO TO THREE, the National Center for Infants, Toddler and Families (ZTT).\n\nOn February 4, 2010, Federal Chief Technology Officer and an Associate Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy Aneesh Chopra announced the launch of Text4baby, an educational program of HMHB developed through a broad public-private partnership. The mobile health service promotes maternal and child health among underserved women. \n\nText4baby is the first-ever free mobile health service in the United States. It provides scientifically-reviewed health tips, reminders and information about community resources, delivered via SMS text messages sent to the mobile phones of subscribing women. Messages are timed to the mother’s stage of pregnancy or the baby’s date of birth. Pregnant women and new mothers subscribe to the service by texting BABY to 511411. Mothers enroll in the Spanish-language Text4baby service by texting BEBE TO 511411.\n\nIn addition to HMHB, Text4baby founding partners include Voxiva, CTIA-The Wireless Foundation (whose wireless carrier members distribute the CMS text messages for free), grey healthcare group and founding corporate sponsor Johnson & Johnson. Sponsors include WellPoint, Pfizer, CareFirst BlueCross BlueShield. U.S. government partners include the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Department of Health and Human Services and Department of Defense Military Health System. Implementation partners include BabyCenter, LLC, Danya International, Syniverse Technologies, Keynote Systems and The George Washington University. MTV Networks is a media sponsor. \n\nIn August 2010, Text4baby won the “Secretary’s Pick” HHS Innovates Award from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. In June 2011, Text4baby won the Public Relations Society of America’s (PRSA) Best of Silver Anvil Award.\n\nOn May 4, 2015 Text4baby's operations moved to ZERO TO THREE, the National Center for Infants, Toddlers & Families (ZTT).\n\nIn October 2007, HMHB was part of a Maternal Nutrition Group made up of academics in obstetrics and nutritionists that released recommendations on seafood consumption during pregnancy. This recommendation conflicted with official public health advice from EPA/FDA, due to the amount of mercury found in seafood posing a risk to fetal and newborn brain development.\n\nHMHB received a $70,000 donation from the National Fisheries Institute, an industry group formed to promote eating seafood, prior to releasing this recommendation.\n\n"}
{"id": "57381000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57381000", "title": "Nikolai Shamalov", "text": "Nikolai Shamalov\n\nNikolai Terent'yevich Shamalov, Nikolai Terent'evich Shamalov or Nikolai Terentievich Shamalov (;born January 24, 1950, Belarus) is a dentist, a Russian businessman, and a founding member of Ozero. His nickname is Professor Filip Filippovich Preobrazhensky () or the “Professor of the Transfiguration,” who was the central character that transforms from a stray dog into a New Soviet man in Mikhail Bulgakov’s \"Heart of a Dog\".\n\nShamalov is a dentist/physician by training. He is fluent in German.\n\nUntil the 1990s, Nikolai Shamalov worked as a dentist in Leningrad.\n\nIn 1994, he founded the company Masterdentservis () in Leningrad.\n\nNikolai Shamalov was a representative of in St. Petersburg from 1992-2008 selling medical equipment for Siemens Medical Systems. According to Sergei Kolesnikov, Shamalov refused to answer questions by Siemens internal investigators about money laundering, corruption, and bribery. This led to Shamalov's dismissal from Siemens.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1995, he worked in the Committee on External Relations of the St. Petersburg Mayor's Office. Vladimir Putin was his boss.\n\nIn January 1992, AOZT/ZAO Petromed was founded with 51% of its shares owned by the Saint Petersburg's Committee on External Relations (KVS) which Putin headed, 39% of its shares owned by the \"Center for International Cooperation\" which is headed by Dmitri Gorelov, and 10% of its shares owned by the Saint Petersburg Committee on Health. Andrey Kolesnikov, a biophysicist from the Polytechnic Institute, formed a cooperative to manufacture medical equipment for Petromed. In 1993, Nikolai Shamalov was hired by Putin as the Petromed's purchasing agent for Siemens medical equipment from Germany instead of buying from Kolesnikov's cooperative's Russian manufactured equipment. Over many years, Petromed received state funds for the purchase of medical equipment, but Putin also demanded that Russian oligarchs make charitable contributions to Petromed for the purchase of medical equipment. However, Shamalov greatly inflated the purchase price of the medical equipment and then funneled 33% of the money to offshore accounts. After Vladimir Yakovlev, who was the Governor of Saint Petersburg, became a very outspoken critic of Petromed, Putin, and coruption, Gorelev and Kolesnikov bought out the Saint Petersburg Committee on Health portion of Petromed and became the only two owners of Petromed. Later, Gorelov, Kolesnikov, and Shamalov used the funneled money, which they obtained as overcharges to Petromed, to purchase shares in Rossiya Bank, Vyborg Shipyard, and other entities.\n\nOn November 10, 1996, he was a founding member of Vladimir Putin's closed gate community, the cooperative Ozero. As of 2016, Shamalov has remained a member of the cooperative Ozero.\n\nIn 2004, he, Yuri Kovalchuk, and Dmitry Vladimirovich Gorelov became co-owners of Bank Rossiya. Shamalov has the second largest stake in Bank Rossiya.\n\nOn October 18, 2005, he, Sergei Kolesnikov, and Gorelov founded Rosinvest. Using money that Shamalov had funneled from Petromed to offshore accounts and money that was from the Russian state treasury, this company built the health resort in Gelendzhik known as \"Putin's Palace\" which was part of \"project south\" (). To finance \"Putin's Palace\", Nikolai Shamalov's expertise in selling medical equipment through Siemens in St Petersburg was essential in obtaining several hundreds of millions of dollars out of the $1 billion intended for Russian healthcare improvements. Nikolai Shamalov is the original legal owner of \"Putin's Palace.\"\n\nIn 2006, he became a co-owner with a controlling share (10%) of Vyborg Shipyard. Dmitri Gorelov's son Vasili Gorelov is another owner of Vyborg Shipyard.\n\nIn 2010, he, his son Kirill, and Oleg Vitalyevich Sharykin () became co-owners of the Russian Cement Company (). Nikolai owns a 12.5% share. Kirill owns a 5% share and is on the board of directors. The Shamalov's combined stake is estimated to be 15 billion rubles in 2018.\n\nIn 2011 to support the Russian Defense Ministry, Roscosmos, and ROSATOM, he and Oleg Sharykin formed the joint company Ceramic Technologies () which has two main projects: (1) the creation of silicon carbide pencil boxes for the long-term storage and disposal of highly radioactive nuclear waste in underground sites and (2) the development and production of silicon carbide optical blocks in telescopes and sensors used in remote sensing surveillance satellites, which also can detect asteroid hazards and explore deep space. Ceramic Technologies is a member of the Lebedev Institute of Physics (FIAN) through the Troitsk Technopark () and the Skolkovo Foundation but receives no investment and no funding from either. Also, Sharykin said that we have in Kemerovo \"Khimprom\" () and PO \"Tokem\" (), which competes with Lanxess, Dow Chemical, and Mitsubishi Chemical for monodisperse copolymers in resin ion exchangers for nuclear reactors at nuclear power plants, nuclear powered ships (both icebreakers and submarines), and water treatment in the chemical and metallurgical industries. As of October 2015, ROSATOM purchases 40% of its needs for resin ion exchangers from NATO countries, but the Kemerovo production sites are expected to meet 100% of ROSATOM needs by 2017.\n\nOn June 28, 2013, he was the second largest shareholder in Bank Rossiya owning around 10.5% of the total shares.\n\nAccording to the Panama Papers, his Bank Rossiya staff in St Petersburg sent all their confidential instructions through a firm of Swiss attorneys in Zurich, Dietrich Baumgartner and Partners, to have Mossack Fonseca (Mossfon) establish a British Virgin Islands shell company, Sandalwood Continental Ltd, to hide large sums of Vladimir Putin's personal wealth that had been in bank accounts at the Russian Commercial Bank (RCB) of Cyprus, which is a bank owned by VTB and is now known as RCB Bank. Some of this money was transferred from Sergei Roldugin's Sandalwood Continental Ltd to Ozon LLC to purchase and develop the ski resort.\n\nAccording to Sergei Kolesnikov, Nikolai Shamalov gives Vladimir Putin updates on the status of Putin's offshore wealth and hidden accounts usually two or three times a year.\n\nHis relationships with various entities and individuals and be found in this image\n\nIn 2011, he was listed as the 198th richest Russian with a wealth of $500 million by Forbes.\n\nHe is on the billionaires (rubles) group with Delovoy Peterburg.\n\nBecause of the ongoing Russian interference in Ukraine and Nikolai Shamalov's close personal relationship's with Vladimir Putin, Nikolai Shamalov has been under sanctions by the European Union since July 30, 2014, Liechtenstein since July 31, 2014, Canada since August 2, 2014, Switzerland since August 27, 2014, Australia since September 2, 2014, and Ukraine, since October 17, 2016. These sanctions both freeze his assets in the European Union, Liechtenstein, Switzerland, Ukraine, Canada, and Australia, and also restrict his travel rights.\n\nNikolai Shamalov has two sons.\n\nYuri Shamalov (b. June 10, 1970, in St. Petersburg) worked under Vladimir Putin and with Yuri's father Nikolai on the foreign economic relations committee (KVS) for the city of Saint Petersburg from October 1993 to October 1995. He was a Siemens sales representative for Moscow from February 1997 to July 2003. He was the first vice president for Gazfond from July to August 2003. He was the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Gazprom-Media from July 2008 to June 2012, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of OJSC Gaz-Service from November 2008 to February 2015, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of OAO Gazkon from November 2008 to February 2015, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of PJSC Gaz-Tek from October 2011 to February 2015, and the Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board OJSC Gazprombank from June 2008 to December 2014. He is currently the Deputy Chairman on the Supervisory Board of JSC Gazprombank, since December 2014; a board member of Gazprom Media, since August 2008; the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Gazprombank-Fund, since July 2007; and the President of Gazfond, since August 2003. Since March 2014 through his relationship with Gazfond and its controlling interest in , he has the controlling interest at JSC Gazprombank.\n\nYuri Shamalov has degrees from the in 1992 in naval engineering and from the All-Russian Academy of Foreign Trade of the Ministry of Foreign Economic Relations of the Russian Federation in 1996 in foreign trade.\n\nKirill Shamalov (b. March 22, 1982, in St. Petersburg) is a deputy chairman on SIBUR's management board, a vice-president of Sibur Holding, which is a Russian gas processing and petrochemicals company headquartered in Moscow, and was married to Katerina Tikhonova from 2013 to 2018. In April 2018, the United States imposed sanctions on his son Kirill Shamalov and 23 other Russian nationals due to the Russian interference in Ukraine and to prevent Vladimir Putin and his close inner circle's next generation of relatives from gaining wealth.\n"}
{"id": "1695201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1695201", "title": "Nita Barrow", "text": "Nita Barrow\n\nDame Ruth Nita Barrow, GCMG DA, (15 November 1916 – 19 December 1995) was the first female Governor-General of Barbados. She was a nurse and a public health servant from Barbados. She served as Governor-General of Barbados from 6 June 1990 until her death on 19 December 1995. She was the older sister of Errol Barrow, first Prime Minister of Barbados.\n\nRuth Nita Barrow was born in Barbados, to a respected Anglican priest, the Reverend Reginald Grant Barrow and Mrs. Ruth Alberta Barrow. She was the second of her parents' five children, whom included Sybil Barrow, Ena Comma, and Errol Barrow. She trained as a nurse, midwife and health care administrator. She held a variety of nursing, public health and public administration jobs in Barbados and Jamaica in the 1940s/1950s. She suffered from a massive stroke the night of her death and is survived by her sisters, Sybil Barrow and Ena Comma.\n\nShe began her nursing profession in her early years following in the steps of her uncle and father, and completed her basic training at the Barbados General Hospital. She then began training in midwifery at the Port-of-Spain General Hospital in Trinidad. Barrow was a graduate in nursing from Columbia University, New York, University of Toronto, Canada and the University of Edinburgh, Scotland. She later continued her education in a specialized study at the Royal College of Nursing of Edinburgh University in 1951 to 1952 and at Columbia University in 1962 to 1963. As a public servant, she served as an Instructress at the West Indies School of Public Health in Jamaica in 1945 to 1950. She later became responsible in the Nursing and Public Health fields as the first West Indian Matron of the University College Hospital in 1954 and the first Principal Nursing Officer in Jamaica in 1956. Following the regional expansion of the West Indies School, she became a director of a nursing research project at the Commonwealth Caribbean. This led to modernizing nurses training and began the Advanced Nursing program at the University of the West Indies. \n\nBarrow's career began in the year of 1964, when she became a Nursing Advisor for the Pan American Health Organization for the Caribbean area. In 1975, she became the Director of the Christian Medical Commission of the World Council of Churches (WCC) and President of the World YMCA (1975-1983). She was president of the International Council of Adult Education (ICAE) from 1982 through 1990 and Convenor of the Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) Forum for the Decade of Women in Nairobi, Kenya in 1983. In 1985, at the Nairobi World Conference on Women, Barrow served as the chair of the NGO Forum. \n\nShe was a member of the Commonwealth Group of Eminent Persons that visited South Africa in 1986. During that mission she successfully thwarted South Africa's military restrictions, through entering the restricted area of Alexandra township disguised in African garb and head-dress.\n\nIn 1980 Barrow was conferred the highest honor in Barbados; she was made a Dame of St. Andrew (DA) of the Order of Barbados. She was also awarded an Honorary Fellowship of the Royal College of Nursing.\n\nThe Errol & Nita Barrow Educational Trust raises funds and make financial awards to enable Bajans and Commonwealth Caribbean citizens to pursue a course of study that will further the development of Barbados and the Caribbean.\n\nThe ICAE created the Dame Nita Barrow award which supports regional and nation adult education organizations that have made a great contribution towards the empowerment of women.\n\nDie Nita Barrow Collection, a collection of documents about Nita Barrow's life and times, has been inscribed into UNESCO's list on world documentary heritage, the Memory of the World Register.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21873676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21873676", "title": "OPCS-4", "text": "OPCS-4\n\nOPCS-4, or more formally OPCS Classification of Interventions and Procedures version 4, is the procedural classification used by clinical coders within National Health Service (NHS) hospitals of NHS England, NHS Scotland, NHS Wales and Health and Social Care in Northern Ireland. It is based on the earlier Office of Population Censuses and Surveys Classification of Surgical Operations and Procedures (4th revision), and retains the OPCS abbreviation from this now defunct publication.\n\nOPCS-4 codifies operations, procedures and interventions performed during in-patient stays, day case surgery and some out-patient treatments in NHS hospitals. Though the code structure is different, as a code set, OPCS-4 is comparable to the American Medical Association's Current Procedural Terminology.\n\nAs a publication, OPCS-4 is split into two volumes; a tabular list (Volume I) and an alphabetical index (Volume II). An electronic version is also available. However, a number of supplementary publications are also used by coding staff.\n\nThe first NHS procedural classification was published in 1987, by the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys (OPCS) as the \"Classification of Surgical Operations\". In 1992 the 4th revision was released as the \"OPCS Classification of Surgical Operations and Procedures (4th revision)\", usually shorted to OPCS-4.2. Responsibility for the classifications used in the NHS, including OPCS-4, passed to the NHS Information Authority (NHS IA) when it formed in 1999.\n\nBy 2003, the NHS IA had realised OPCS-4.2 no longer accurately reflected many of the procedures being performed in the UK healthcare system. As a medium term measure, a project to replace OPCS-4 with a more robust method of procedure coding was proposed and partially developed. Rather than using a sequence of codes to capture activity, the new classification would have used a single alphanumeric code up to 15 characters long. When the NHS IA was superseded by NHS Connecting for Health (NHS CFH) in 2005, the project was placed on indefinite hold, and a program of annual revisions to OPCS-4 was implemented. Much of the development work for the suspended project was reused to produce the initial expansion and enhancement of OPCS-4.2 to OPCS-4.3. However, OPCS-4.2 remained the mandated method of procedural classification in the NHS setting until March 2006.\n\nSince the implementation of OPCS-4.3 in April 2006 there have been five further editions of OPCS-4 released. ; OPCS-4.9 is under development, with a provisional release date of 2020. Each becoming the mandated classification on 1 April in the year of publication.\n\nOPCS-4 version mandated for use (financial year)\n\nWhilst additions to OPCS-4 are reviewed on an annual basis, the long term plan is to replace OPCS-4 with SNOMED CT.\n\nOn 31 March 2013 NHS CFH ceased to exist. On 1 April 2013, the Health and Social Care Information Centre's (HSCIC) Clinical Classifications Service (CCS) became responsible for the revision and maintenance of OPCS-4. On 1 April 2016, HSCIC was rebranded to NHS Digital; responsibility for OPCS-4 remains with NHS Digital.\n\nOPCS-4 Volume I is split into 24 chapters:\n\nThere is currently no Chapter I. Nor are there any codes beginning with an \"I\".\n\nWhilst there is no Chapter O, codes beginning with an \"O\" can be found in OPCS-4. These were added to chapters when all the available 3-character code blocks were exhausted, but further classifications were needed. They are also referred to as \"overflow codes\", and are located at the end of the related chapter. When indexing a procedure or intervention that is classified to an O-code, the letter denoting the chapter the code is found in is given in parentheses after the code. For example: O04.- Embolisation Artery Aneurysmal Transluminal Percutaneous NEC (L).\n\nOPCS-4 is an alphanumeric nomenclature, and uses a four character code layout; similar to that found in ICD-10. The first character is always a letter. With the exception of the O-codes mentioned above, the letter indicates the chapter the code is from. The second, third and fourth characters are always numbers. A full stop (.) separates the third and fourth characters. Also, unlike ICD-10, there are no three character codes within OPCS-4.\n\nAlthough OPCS-4 is used to classify procedures and interventions, and ICD-10 classifies diagnoses; their chapters do not correlate. That is to say; Chapter A of OPCS-4 is not used to classify treatments for conditions in Chapter I of ICD-10.\n\nOPCS-4 Volume II is an index for looking up codes in Volume I. It is bad practice to use it by itself, as some trails only index to the 3rd character category, rather than the 4th character rubric.\n\nIt is split into four numbered sections, along with an introduction section.\n\nThe introduction gives a brief guide on using OPCS-4, and defines some abbreviations; for example .\n\nThis is the main bulk of the index, and contains the mechanism of looking up codes within the tabular list.\n\nTerms are indexed in a , , method. For example, oesophagogastroduodenoscopy is trailed via Examination (the What), Gastrointestinal Tract Upper (the Where), Endoscopic Fibreoptic (the How).\n\nThis list of surgical eponyms, contains common NHS procedures that may also be known by the surgeon, team or institution that developed the method or device used. For example, the Birmingham hip resurfacing and the Thompson Hemiarthroplasty.\n\nCare must be taken when using trailing via Section II for two reasons:\n\nThis section of the Volume II contains an alphabetical list of common abbreviations and their definitions. For example, ECMO - Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation.\n\nAs there are few instances where the abbreviation has been used more than once, and medical language is liable to change; descriptors are given to clarify all abbreviations. For example, SST could stand for Serum Skin Test or Short Synacthen Test.\n\nThis section of Volume II is a single page glossary that defines suffixes that are used throughout the classification. For example, -otomy.\n\nThere are a number of publications that supplement OPCS-4.\n\nThe \"National Clinical Coding Standards OPCS-4\" is a reference book on how to use the classification, and provides guidance through examples. It is initially supplied to novice coders who attend a standards course run by a CCS approved trainer. Whilst each revision to OPCS-4 sees the issue of a new manual; any updates or corrections are issued electronically, and the onus is on the coder to update them by hand.\n\nPrior to OPCS-4.7, and the move of maintenance responsibility to NHS Digital, the standards book was known as the \"Clinical Coding Instruction Manual\".\n\nThe Coding Clinic publication is how minor changes and coding advice for both ICD-10 and OPCS-4 are disseminated through the UK clinical coding community. Initially issued as a printed newsletter, in 2012 the format was switched to a single, compendium-like electronic publication.\n\nMaintained by the Department of Health's (DH) Payment by Results team; the High Cost Drugs List is a catalogue of drugs licensed for use in the NHS that are excluded from the Payment by Results (PbR) tariff.\n\nIssued annually - even in years with no revision to OPCS-4 - the list consists of the generic names of certain drugs next to the relevant OPCS-4 code. The guidance section of the list states that it is down to the clinical staff to use the generic instead of brand names.\n\nThe Chemotherapy Regimens List, also issued by the DH Payment by Results team, is for the coding of administration of antineoplastic drugs. Organised alphabetically, the list contains adult and paediatric chemotherapy regimens used in the NHS. Drug trials are excluded as they are usually financed by the trial's commissioner, for example a pharmaceutical company or cancer charity.\n\nThe National Clinical Coding Standards OPCS-4 and both of the DH lists are issued to coders via Terminology Reference Data Update Distribution Service (TRUD)\n\nAs an NHS publication, OPCS-4 is covered by Crown Copyright.\n\nThe Clinical Coding and Schedule Development (CCSD) Group's Schedule of Procedures is based upon OPCS-4.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8271030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8271030", "title": "PATH (global health organization)", "text": "PATH (global health organization)\n\nPATH is an international, nonprofit global health organization based in Seattle, with 1,600 employees in more than 70+ offices around the world. Its president and CEO is Steve Davis. PATH focuses on five platforms—vaccines, drugs, diagnostics, devices, and system and service innovations—to develop innovations and implement solutions that save lives and improve health, especially among women and girls.\n\nPATH's tagline is \"Better health moves humanity forward.\"\n\nFounded in 1977 with a focus on family planning, PATH soon broadened its purpose to work on a wide array of emerging and persistent global health issues in the areas of health technologies, maternal health, child health, reproductive health, vaccines and immunization, and emerging and epidemic diseases such as HIV, malaria, and tuberculosis.\n\nSince 2000, PATH expanded from about 300 employees and an annual budget of $60 million to, in 2016, a payroll of 1,600 people working in 70+ countries and a budget of $305 million.\n\nPATH is one of the largest nonprofit organizations in global health today.\n\nPATH's headquarters are in the South Lake Union, Seattle neighborhood, close to several other global health organizations including the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.\n\nOneWorld Health was a 501(c)(3) nonprofit drug development organization founded in San Francisco in 2000 by Victoria Hale. In December 2011, OneWorld Health became a drug development program of PATH. What was the Institute for OneWorld Health has become PATH's Drug Development program.\n\nPATH's vision is \"a world where innovation ensures that health is within reach for everyone.\" Its mission is \"to improve the health of people around the world by advancing technologies, strengthening systems, and encouraging healthy behaviors.\"\n\nPATH is best known for developing and adapting technologies, such as improved vaccination devices and new tools to prevent cervical cancer, to address the health needs of developing countries. It targets health problems, evaluates possible solutions, and assesses whether they would be useful in finding health solutions.\n\nSteve Davis, PATH's CEO, has described the organization's role as a \"bridge-builder and innovator on the global stage.\"\n\nPATH develops, adapts, and advances technologies focused on disease diagnostics, drugs, vaccine delivery, nutrition, reproductive health, water and sanitation, and other areas.\n\nOne of PATH's best-known technologies is the vaccine vial monitor, a small sticker that adheres to a vaccine vial and changes color as the vaccine is exposed to heat over time. The sticker helps health workers know when a vaccine has reached its preset temperature limit and can no longer be safely used. It promotes more reliable vaccinations as well as cost savings, because health workers no longer have to throw out vaccine just because they suspect it has gone bad. UNICEF requires these monitors on all vaccines it purchases.\n\nAnother vaccine technology developed by PATH is the Uniject injection system. The single-dose, autodisabling injection system consists of a needle attached to a small bubble of plastic that is prefilled with medication. The system is designed to prevent disease transmission and enable health workers with only a little training to administer vaccine and other drugs in remote villages.\n\nPATH develops nutrition-focused innovations such as Ultra Rice, a manufactured, micronutrient-fortified \"grain\" that can be mixed with rice to fight malnutrition in countries where rice is a staple food. Made of rice flour, micronutrients, and nutrient-protecting ingredients, Ultra Rice can mimic the look and taste of local rice and deliver the specific micronutrients a population needs. Ultra Rice has been produced and tested in several countries, including Brazil, Burundi, and India, where it has been served in school-lunch programs. PATH is working with partners in Cambodia to distribute Ultra Rice through food assistance programs and deepen the evidence base for rice fortification. In Brazil, PATH has partnered with a commercial rice producer to sell Ultra Rice on supermarket shelves and reach 10 million low-income consumers in three years.\n\nSeveral PATH technologies address sexual and reproductive health, including:\n\nPATH employs a user-driven design process for its reproductive technologies to meet women's specific needs.\n\nPATH looks at ways to improve water quality in developing countries, including helping companies develop low-cost filters, gadgets, and other water-treatment products to stimulate a commercial market and keep prices low.\n\nPATH is working with biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies to support the development of vaccines for diseases such as meningitis and pneumonia and to help countries introduce vaccines for childhood illnesses such as rotavirus and Japanese encephalitis.\n\nPATH and the World Health Organization, through the Meningitis Vaccine Project, led the development of a vaccine called MenAfriVac to end meningitis A epidemics in sub-Saharan Africa, where 450 million people in 26 countries are at risk of the disease. The vaccine was developed by Serum Institute of India and introduced in Burkina Faso, Mali, and Niger in December 2010 to prevent the spread of a strain of meningitis found only in Africa. Within six months, the vaccine eliminated new cases of meningitis A in the areas where it was introduced. By the end of 2012, the vaccine had reached 100 million people in ten countries: Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Chad, Ghana, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, and Sudan. The introduction of MenAfriVac marked the first time that a vaccine was developed for a disease only found in Africa.\n\nPreviously used meningitis vaccines had low efficacy and cost USD $80 per dose. The new vaccine has high efficacy against the type of meningitis that is most prevalent in Africa and costs less than $0.50 per dose. The entire vaccination research and development project cost less than US$100 million, about one-fifth the typical cost for developing a vaccine.\n\nIn 2012, MenAfriVac was also approved for storage without refrigeration for up to four days, enabling health workers to more easily reach patients in rural villages or in areas with no power.\n\nPATH supports the introduction of vaccines against rotavirus in developing countries to protect young children from severe diarrhea. In 2006, PATH helped Nicaragua become the first developing country to introduce rotavirus vaccines within months of their introduction. Former PATH researcher John Wecker noted that rotavirus infections dropped in areas that began to use the vaccine after the WHO recommended its international use in 2009.\n\nPATH also conducts research to show the impact of rotavirus vaccines and help countries choose whether to adopt the vaccines into their immunization programs.\n\nPATH is working with India and other countries in the region to introduce an affordable vaccine to protect against Japanese encephalitis—a disease the World Health Organization estimates claims 10,000 to 15,000 lives a year, mostly children, and causes permanent brain damage in many more. In 2006, PATH helped the government of India launch an immunization campaign to reach millions of children in high-risk areas with the vaccine. PATH has also supported successful immunization campaigns in Cambodia, North Korea, and other countries to reach more than 60 million children.\n\nPart of PATH's work focuses on some of the most widespread and threatening global diseases: malaria, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and influenza.\n\nThe PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative supports several malaria vaccine candidates at various stages of development around the world, including the most advanced candidate, called RTS,S. Researchers are studying RTS,S, made by GlaxoSmithKline, in phase 3 clinical trials among infants and young children in sub-Saharan Africa. Interim results of the study released in 2011 showed the vaccine provided about 50 percent protection against malaria for young children ages 5 to 17 months. Interim study results released in 2012 showed RTS,S reduced cases of malaria among infants by 33 percent. In October 2013, GlaxoSmithKline reported that the experimental vaccine reduced the amount of cases amongst young children by almost 50 percent and among infants by around 25 percent, following the conclusion of an 18-month clinical trial. GlaxoSmithKline is set to submit an application for a marketing license with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in 2014. The new vaccine has the backing of the UN's Swiss-based WHO which states that it will recommend the use of RTS,S for use starting in 2015, providing it gets approval.\n\nAnother PATH initiative to address malaria is the Malaria Control and Evaluation Partnership in Africa (MACEPA), which focuses on controlling malaria through the use of insecticide-treated bednets, indoor spraying of insecticides, new diagnostic tools to find infection, and effective medicines for treatment. In Zambia, this work has helped decrease the rate of malaria among children younger than age 5 by 50 percent in two years.\n\nIn December 2012, PATH received an award from the US President's Malaria Initiative for a new malaria project focused on \"the expansion of high-quality diagnosis and treatment for malaria and other childhood illnesses and infectious diseases.\"\n\nPATH's Drug Development program, which grew out of an affiliation with OneWorld Health, is advancing a new, semisynthetic form of the malaria drug artemisinin that will bolster the current, volatile botanical supply. In August 2014, PATH and Sanofi announced the release of the first batch of semisynthetic artemisinin. 1.7 million doses of Sanofi's ArteSunate AmodiaQuine Winthrop (ASAQ Winthrop), a fixed-dose artemisinin-based combination therapy will be shipped to half a dozen African countries over the next few months.\n\nPATH works in Africa, Asia, and other regions to slow the spread of HIV/AIDS and provide support for people affected by the disease. In Kenya, where PATH has worked for more than 20 years, the organization conducts research into \"multipurpose prevention technologies\" that can protect women from HIV and pregnancy and provides support groups and health services for married adolescents and other groups at high risk for HIV. It also leads a large project with local governments and community organizations to strengthen and expand services for HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, and maternal and newborn health.\n\nOther PATH projects to address HIV in Africa include improving access to HIV treatment and services in Ethiopia and expanding HIV counseling and testing and other services in the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nPATH uses behavior change communication techniques to encourage healthy behaviors for HIV prevention. One of the best-known examples is PATH's work with \"magnet theater\" in Kenya, India, Vietnam, and other developing countries. Named because of its natural pulling power, this interactive street theater draws people in rural communities to clearings, dirt roads, and village centers—any open space where people can gather. There, actors banter with their audiences and pull them into the play, stimulating dialogue about HIV/AIDS and other taboo subjects and helping individuals re-examine behaviors that contribute to poor health.\n\nIn addition to its work on vaccines for childhood illnesses, PATH addresses pregnancy complications, nutrition issues, and other health challenges that affect women and children in developing countries and lead to higher rates of illness and death.\n\nIn 2012, PATH completed a seven-year project in India focused on safe birth for mothers and babies. PATH worked with local governments and community groups to encourage community leaders, health workers, pregnant women, and families to deliver babies in health centers, rather than at home, and adopt other best practices to protect mothers and their infants during pregnancy, childbirth, and infancy. The project used community outreach approaches including door-to-door clinical surveillance, distribution of printed health materials, and street theater to spread messages about maternal and newborn health.\n\nIn South Africa, PATH leads a five-year project to improve the health and development of 750,000 pregnant women and children by encouraging breastfeeding and improving health care for pregnant women and young children.\n\nHeadquartered in Seattle, Washington, PATH has more than 70 offices in countries around the world. As of December 2012, these countries included Belgium, Cambodia, China, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, France, Ghana, India, Kenya, Mozambique, Peru, Senegal, South Africa, Switzerland, Tanzania, Thailand, Uganda, Ukraine, United States, Vietnam, and Zambia.\n\nPATH currently works in more than 70 countries.\n\nPATH's expenses in 2011 were US$284 million, of which more than 40 percent was spent on vaccines and immunization programs and 26 percent spent on emerging and epidemic diseases.\n\nPATH receives funding from foundations, the US government, other governments, nongovernmental organizations, multilateral agencies, and individuals. PATH's budget for 2012 was US $305 million.\n\nIn 2010, PATH received the most US foundation grants in the state of Washington and ranked thirteenth among international recipients of US foundation grants.\n\nCharity Navigator, America's largest independent evaluator of nonprofits, has awarded PATH its highest rating, four stars, for sound fiscal management for nine consecutive years.\n\nIn 2012, the NGO was warned by the Indian government after one of its studies involving an HPV vaccine resulted in the alleged death of seven girls belonging to an indigenous community (tribe) in India. In what The Hindu called \"a shockingly unethical trial\", nearly 2,800 consent forms were signed by a hostel warden or headmaster, as the 'guardian'.\n\nIn 2012, PATH was ranked as the sixth best NGO in the world on the \"top 100\" list published by The Global Journal.\n\nIn 2009, PATH received the Conrad N. Hilton Humanitarian Prize.\n\nFor five years running, \"Fast Company\" magazine has named PATH as one of the top social entrepreneurs who are changing the world.\n\nIn 2003, PATH received the Tech Museum's Dr. Alejandro Zaffaroni Health Award for its work on the Uniject device, a sterile pre-filled, single-use syringe.\n\nAs of 2017, PATH has been vetted and is in good standing as part of GlobalGiving's GG Rewards program.\n\nSince 2005, PATH has remained on Forbes' top 200 list of the 200 largest charities in America.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22538516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22538516", "title": "Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans", "text": "Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans\n\nThe Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans, published by the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), provides physical activity recommendations for people aged 6 and older and for all physical conditions. The science-based Guidelines recommend a total amount of physical activity per week to achieve a range of health benefits.\n\nThese Guidelines can be tailored to meet individual interests, lifestyles, and goals. Recommendations in the Guidelines can be incorporated within daily routines and allow activities—like walking, biking, or dancing—to be integrated.\n\nThe main message is that regular physical activity over months and years can produce long-term health benefits and reduce the risk of many diseases. The messages from the Physical Activity Guidelines are also found in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans which provide recommendations for healthy food choices and regular physical activity.\n\nHealth professionals and policymakers are the primary audiences for the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans. However, the information is useful for anyone interested in improving the health of his/her community members and other individuals.\n\nThe Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans were released on October 7, 2008 and are based on a comprehensive review of scientific research about physical activity and health.\n\nThe US Department of Health and Human Services released an update to its Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans in 2018, a decade after publishing its first set of guidelines. The 2018 report linked the lack of physical activity to about $117 billion in annual healthcare costs and about 10% of premature mortality.\n\nWhile the 2008 edition gave recommendations for children from age 6 years onward, the 2018 edition includes guidelines even for preschool children, from ages 3 through 5 years.\n\n\nThe National Association for the Education of Young Children suggests that children who get appropriate unstructured physical activity will reduce their stress; also studies show that stress plays a major role in learning and in health (“Recess Rocks”). Many children benefit from physical activities which help with bullying and better eating habits. Physical activities are important in children because it helps them stay focused in the classroom, improve brain function and overall behavior.\n<http://www.coloradoinitiative.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/03/Recess-Rocks.pdf>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRelated to the U.S. Department of Health and Senior Service's Guidelines for Americans are Fundamental Movement Skills. As defined by the Department of Education:\n\n“fundamental movement skills are movement patterns that involve different body parts such as the legs, arms, trunk and head, and include such skills as running, hopping,catching, throwing, striking, and balancing. They are the foundation movements or precursor patterns to the more specialized, complex skills used in play,games, sports, dance, gymnastics, outdoor education and physical recreation activities”\n\nFundamental movement skills are broken up into three categories, including body management skills, loco motor skills, and object control skills.\n\nThese skill sets are dubbed fundamental because they are crucial to many aspects of development. Physical development is a more obvious positive outcome from learning these skills, but perhaps less considered outcomes are social and mental development. \n\n\"This article incorporates text from the websites of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, a United States government agency, with content in the public domain.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9898130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9898130", "title": "Plains game", "text": "Plains game\n\nPlains game is well established in literature and conversation as the sporting hunter's generic term for all those fair-game species of antelope and gazelle which are to be found - typically in rather open plains or savanna habitats - throughout sub-Saharan Africa. The term is all-embracing, unscientific, and rather imprecise. Impala and Thomson's gazelle are classic examples of plains game, but the term also encompasses a great range of species from the diminutive steenbok to the massive eland.\n\nPlains game species are distinct from species of dangerous game, which generally consists of the Big 5 as well as crocodile and hippopotamus. For this reason, virtually any species of game in Africa that is not considered dangerous game may be broadly referred to as plains game.\n\nWhere the term \"plains game\" is used as an indication of the kind of game for which particular sporting rifle cartridges are deemed suitable, it is fair to assume that the same ammunition also performs efficiently on other ungulates occurring elsewhere in the world, such as deer.\n"}
{"id": "3968671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3968671", "title": "Queen's Guide to the Sands", "text": "Queen's Guide to the Sands\n\nThe Queen's Guide to the Sands is the royally appointed guide to crossing the sands of Morecambe Bay, an ancient and potentially dangerous tidal crossing in northwest England. , the Guide is Cedric Robinson MBE, who became the 25th guide in 1963. The guide is paid a nominal salary of only £15 a year but the holder of the post also has the use of the 700-year-old Guide's Cottage at Kents Bank, which is owned by the Crown and managed by the Duchy of Lancaster.\n\nThe first official guide was appointed by the Duchy of Lancaster on 29 January 1548, a Thomas Hogeson.\n\nUntil the building of the railway in 1857, the cross sands route had been a major transport route in the area, with Guides appointed royally since the 16th century. Before that, the monks of Furness at Cartmel Priory had provided guides for crossing the sands. In modern times a crossing of the sands has become a popular challenge walk for charity fundraisers, with Robinson often leading groups of up to 500 people. These walks are typically once a fortnight (from spring to autumn), from either Hest Bank or Arnside over to Flookburgh Point or Kents Bank—tide and river levels (the River Kent has to be crossed at some point) allowing—and are often in support of a charity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857353", "title": "Radiological Protection Institute of Ireland", "text": "Radiological Protection Institute of Ireland\n\nThe Radiological Protection Institute of Ireland (RPII), \"An Institiúid Éireannach um Chosaint Raideolaíoch\", was an independent public body in Ireland under the aegis of the Department of Communications, Climate Action and Environment. The RPII was established in 1992 under the Radiological Protection Act 1991, which conferred on the RPII a broad remit in relation to radiological protection in Ireland. The RPII was merged with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in August 2014, as part of the Irish Government's Public Sector Reform Plan. RPII's functions are now carried out by the Office of Radiation Protection and Environmental Monitoring within the EPA.\n\nThe general functions of the ORP are:\n\nThe RPII was the successor to the Nuclear Energy Board which was formally wound up by the Radiological Protection Act 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5223139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5223139", "title": "Roy Baumeister", "text": "Roy Baumeister\n\nRoy F. Baumeister (; born May 16, 1953) is a social psychologist who is known for his work on the self, social rejection, belongingness, sexuality and sex differences, self-control, self-esteem, self-defeating behaviors, motivation, aggression, consciousness, and free will.\n\nBaumeister earned his A.B. from Princeton University and his M.A. from Duke University. He returned to Princeton University with his mentor Edward E. Jones and earned his Ph.D. from the university's Department of Psychology in 1978.\n\nBaumeister then taught at Case Western Reserve University from 1979 to 2003, serving as a professor of psychology and later liberal arts. He later worked at Florida State University as the Francis Eppes Eminent Scholar and head of the social psychology graduate program. At FSU, Baumeister worked in the psychology department, teaching classes and graduate seminars on social and evolutionary psychology. In 2016 he moved to the School of Psychology at the University of Queensland in Australia where he is currently teaching.\n\nHe is a fellow of both the Society for Personality and Social Psychology and the Association for Psychological Science. Baumeister was named an ISI highly cited researcher in 2003 and 2014.\n\nBaumeister has researched social psychology for over four decades and made a name for himself with his laboratory research. His research focuses on six themes: self control, decision-making, the need to belong and interpersonal rejection, human sexuality, irrational and self-destructive behavior, and free will.\n\nBaumeister has conducted research on the self, focussing on various concepts related to how people perceive, act, and relate to their selves. Baumeister wrote a chapter titled, \"The Self\" in \"The Handbook of Social Psychology\",\nand reviewed the research on self-esteem, concluding that the perceived importance of self-esteem is overrated.\n\nIn a series of journal articles and books, Baumeister inquired about the reasons for self-defeating behavior. His conclusions: there is no self-defeating urge (as some have thought). Rather, self-defeating behavior is either a result of trade-offs (enjoying drugs now at the expense of the future), backfiring strategies (eating a snack to reduce stress only to feel more stressed), or a psychological strategy to escape the self – where various self-defeating strategies are rather directed to relieve the burden of selfhood.\n\nBaumeister wrote a paper on the need-to-belong theory with Mark Leary in 1995. This theory seeks to show that humans have a natural need to belong with others. Baumeister and Leary suggest that human beings naturally push to form relationships. This push helps to distinguish a need (rather than a desire). In addition to the drive for attachment, people also struggle to avoid the disintegration of these relationships. As part of this theory, a lack of belonging would have a long-term, negative impact on mood and health, and those who do not meet their belonging needs may suffer from behavioral and psychological issues.\nNeed-to-belong theory has two necessary parts:\n\n\nThis work was groundbreaking in that it separated itself from previous theories relating to attachment such as those of John Bowlby. While Bowlby's theory implied the attachment needs to be applied to a group leader or authority figure, Baumeister and Leary's need-to-belong theory posited that the relationship could be with anyone. To further distinguish the two theories, Baumeister and Leary theorized that if a relationship dissolved, the bond can often be replaced with a bond to another person.\n\nLater, Baumeister published evidence that the way people look for belongingness differs between men and women. Women prefer a few close and intimate relationships, whereas men prefer many but shallower connections. Men realize more of their need to belong via a group of people, or a cause, rather than in close interpersonal relations.\n\nBaumeister also researched self-regulation. He coined the term \"ego depletion\" to describe the evidence that humans' ability to self-regulate is limited, and after using it there is less ability (or energy) to self-regulate. Ego depletion has a general effect, such that exerting self-control in one area will use up energy for further regulation in other areas of life. Further research by Baumeister and colleagues has led to the development of the Strength Model of self-control, which likens this ego depletion to the tiredness that comes from physically exerting a muscle. A corollary to this analogy, supported by his research, is that self-control can be strengthened over time, much like a muscle. The energy used up is more than metaphorical, however; his research has found a strong link between ego depletion and depletion of blood-glucose levels. Baumeister also edited two academic books on self-regulation, \"Losing Control\" and \"Handbook of Self-Regulation\", and has devoted numerous experiments and journal papers to the topic. He also describes this research in a book, \"Willpower\", authored with former New York Times journalist John Tierney.\n\nIn 2016 a large study carried out at two-dozen labs in countries across the world that sought to reproduce the effects described in these studies was unsuccessful. Baumeister, however disputed the protocol used in this replication. Baumeister also plans to run his own pre-registered replication using a protocol that is more in line with most ego-depletion experiments \n\nA series of studies of human sexuality has addressed questions such as how nature and culture influence people's sex drive, rape and sexual coercion, the cultural suppression of female sexuality, and how couples negotiate their sexual patterns. In his research, Baumeister reached four major conclusions:\n\nBaumeister approaches the topic of free will from the view-point of evolutionary psychology. He has listed the major aspects that make up free will as self-control, rational, intelligent choice, planful behavior, and autonomous initiative. Baumeister proposes that \"the defining thrust of human psychological evolution was selection in favor of cultural capability\" and that these four psychological capabilities evolved to help humans function in the context of culture. In his view, free will is an advanced form of action control that allows humans to act in pro-social ways towards their enlightened self-interest when acting in these ways would otherwise be in conflict with the fulfillment of evolutionarily older drives or instincts. Research by Baumeister and colleagues (principally Kathleen Vohs) has shown that disbelief in free will can lead people to act in ways that are harmful to themselves and society, such as cheating on a test, increased aggression, decreased helpfulness, lower achievement levels in the workplace, and possible barriers to beating addiction.\n\nBaumeister coined the term \"erotic plasticity\", which is the extent to which one's sex drive can be shaped by cultural, social and situational factors. He argues that women have high plasticity, meaning that their sex drive can more easily change in response to external pressures. On the other hand, men have low plasticity, and therefore have sex drives that are relatively inflexible.\n\nBaumeister has written or edited some 30 books, over 500 publications, and has been cited nearly 100,000 times in research literature. Additionally, he authors the column \"Cultural Animal\" for \"Psychology Today\". The following is a partial listing of his works.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15881342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15881342", "title": "Smoke Free Illinois Act", "text": "Smoke Free Illinois Act\n\nThe Smoke Free Illinois Act (; Public Act 095-0017) is a comprehensive anti-smoking law that took effect in Illinois on , and bans smoking inside most buildings and vehicles used by the general public, used as a place of employment, or owned by the government or other public body. It also requires \"no-smoking\" signs, bans smoking within of openings in the targeted buildings, and requires at least 75% of rooms in each hotel to be non-smoking. It replaced the more limited Illinois Clean Indoor Air Act (410 ILCS 80).\n\nOn January 11, 2007, Illinois State Senator John J. Cullerton introduced comprehensive legislation that would make Illinois workplaces and indoor public places smoke-free. Similar legislation was also introduced in the Illinois House of Representatives as House Bill 246 by Representative Karen Yarbrough. The American Lung Association and the American Cancer Society of Illinois joined more than 450 other organizations in applauding State Senator Cullerton and State Representative Karen Yarbrough for this important step.\n\nThe Illinois General Assembly put the Smoke-Free Illinois Act into effect beginning January 1, 2008. Per Damon T. Arnold, M.D., M.P.H Director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, \"The Smoke-free Illinois Website is designed to provide a variety of informational resources. I encourage you to read the information contained here to become more informed about the Smoke-free Illinois law, to access information about secondhand smoke, to seek assistance to quit smoking or to lodge a complaint about a possible violation.\"\n\nAs of January 1, 2008, the Smoke-Free Illinois Act requires that public places and places of employment must be completely smoke-free inside and within 15 feet from entrances, exits, windows that open and ventilation intakes. This includes but is not limited to:\n\n\nThe Smoke Free Illinois Act (Senate Bill 500, P.A. 95-0017), and codified as 410 ILCS 82 took effect January 1, 2008. It repeals the Illinois Clean Indoor Air Act (410 ILCS 80) and it amends the State Mandates Act () by adding Section 8.31. Enforcement, fines, and proprietor responsibilities are outlined per the Illinois Municipal League Newsletter dated December 13, 2007.\nThe Illinois Department of Public Health, local public health departments, and local law enforcement agencies are required to enforce the act. These agencies may assess fines to any corporation, partnership, association or other entity violating the no smoking provisions of the act. Each day that a violation occurs is a separate violation. ()\nA person who smokes in a prohibited area shall be fined from $100 to $250. A person who owns, operates, or otherwise controls a public place or place of employment that violates the act shall be fined not less than $250 for the first violation, not less than $500 for the second violation within one year after the first violation, and not less than $2,500 for each additional violation within one year after the first violation. ()\nPost a \"no smoking\" sign at each entrance. Do not permit smoking in a public place, a place of employment or within 15 feet of any entrance. Remove ashtrays from all areas where smoking is prohibited. ()\n\n, Peoria, Tazewell, Woodford, and Fulton counties' Health Departments have not fined any businesses for violations of the smoking ban yet. Instead, they are trying to work with the businesses in order to educate them about the law. Brian Tun, the director of health promotion at the Peoria County Health Department, estimated that about forty complaints had been made in the Peoria County area already. If they do not send someone to investigate, they will send a letter to remind the business to comply with the law. He also stated a second warning letter has not been necessary to send out yet. The Health Department officials are undecided on how to handle additional violations after the second warning, if they are to go beyond the state's minimums. Sara Sparkman is the Tazewell County Health Department's Community Relations Manager. She said they have received seventeen complaints from nine separate locations. Violations include an informative letter for a first violation, a warning letter for a second violation, a meeting with the owner for a third violation, and probably fines after that.\n\nSome business owners operate a smoking area through a loophole in the law. For around $5,000, a business could install a smoking hut or shack outside their establishment. Since the state and city regulations have not been formed yet, owners can install these for their employees as well as their customers. Many bar owners are even going as far as installing TVs in their smoking huts.\n\nFrom 1993 to 1996, the University of Missouri-Columbia School of Medicine decided to run an experiment, partially funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation (RWJF), which has a national program known as the Tobacco Policy Research and Evaluation Program. The researchers were on a quest to find out if the new smoke-free restrictions put on hospitals would hinder or help the facility's employees. They tested on over a thousand hospitals. Notable results were found that included hospital compliance to the new laws, employees who were under this ban were more likely to quit, and smokers under pressure from fellow employees to follow the rules were more apt to stop smoking as well.\n\nThe Smoke Free Illinois Act has been challenged many times in Illinois circuit courts and, generally speaking, cases have been dismissed when various challenges were raised. In an effort to make the statute enforceable, the General Assembly passed changes to the Smoke Free Illinois Act to specify that enforcement would occur before an administrative agency, rather than before courts. However, the new amendments specify that the agency, the Illinois Department of Public Health, does not have the authority to pass rules or regulations under the new statute, without first gaining approval from the Legislature. Some believe that this renders the statute unconstitutional, because enforcement actions before the agency will concern only interpretation and enforcement of a statute, rather than of a statute in combination with an agency's rules or regulations. Interpreting and enforcing statutes, without reference to agency rules or regulations, has traditionally been the province of the Illinois courts, rather than being left to agencies to adjudicate. So if the Illinois Department of Public Health attempts to enforce the newly amended statute, it is anticipated that there will be a constitutional challenge claiming that the delegation of authority to the agency fails and that it intrudes on the traditional role of courts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36212924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36212924", "title": "Society for Public Health Education", "text": "Society for Public Health Education\n\nThe Society for Public Health Education (SOPHE) is an independent professional society of health educators, academics, and education researchers that was founded in 1950.\n\nSOPHE's mission is to \"Promote the health of all people through education.\". SOPHE advocates and promotes healthy behaviors, healthy communities, and healthy environments through its membership, its network of local chapters, and numerous relationships with global, national, or local organizations, both public and private.\n\nAs an organization, SOPHE also aims to \"stimulate\" research on health education theory and practice. SOPHE's official peer-reviewed journals include Health Education & Behavior and Health Promotion Practice.\n\nSOPHE also advocates health policy legislation in the United States and other countries, specifically in favor of advancing the profession of health education and promotion, as well as the capacity of governments to fulfill the health education needs of the public. SOPHE is the only independent organization whose purpose is to exclusively promote public health education.\n\nSOPHE has roughly 4,000 members, but this varies from year to year. Its membership represents a diversity of disciplines that span professionals in health and medical education, fitness, school health, public health research, clinical research, health promotion, health policymakers, environmental health educators, and other community health professionals and students in the United States and more than 25 other countries. Members of SOPHE are known to work in elementary and secondary schools, universities and colleges, for-profit organizations, voluntary non-profit organizations, health care settings, worksites, and local/state/federal government agencies, and clinical research organizations.\n\nAccording to its 2011 report, approximately 60% of SOPHE's members have earned a postgraduate degree, including Master of Public Health (MPH), Doctor of Public Health (DrPH), and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), or Doctor of Education (DEd or EdD). Many SOPHE members are also certified health education specialists, or \"CHES\" as credentialed by the National Commission for Health Education Credentialing, but this is not universal across the society.\n\nSOPHE has 20 active chapters covering 34 states, including Northern Mexico and Canada.\n\nSOPHE is registered in the United States as a 501 (c)(3) professional non-profit organization.\n\nAmerican Public Health Association\n\nNational Commission for Health Education Credentialing\n\nSOPHE's official YouTube Channel:\n"}
{"id": "50244748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50244748", "title": "Suffolk GP Federation", "text": "Suffolk GP Federation\n\nSuffolk GP Federation is a GP Federation of 61 independent GP practices in Suffolk with a total registered population of 540,000. It is at present a registered community interest company, but is considering becoming one large partnership.\n\nDr Paul Driscoll is its chairman. It won a £10 million contract to provide a full community service for patients with diabetes for five years from April 2014. It offers diabetes screening, training and care for patients with a dedicated helpline and mobile dietetic, podiatry and antenatal clinics in the GP surgeries. It has helped to launch the Suffolk GP Fellowship scheme, which offers trainees a twelve month contract with training opportunities. It is intended to boost recruitment of GPs in the county.\n\nIt runs a service called Suffolk GP+ which offers appointments to patients on bank holidays and out of hours. Patients attending the A&E department at Ipswich Hospital and a West Suffolk Hospital, who are assessed as have minor ailments are offered an appointment with the service, which has access to their GP record. £2 million from the Prime Minister’s Challenge Fund finances the service.\n\nIt launched Suffolk Primary Care in April 2017. This is a partnership of 12 GP practices with a total of 102,529 registered patients. It plans to implement new care models using pharmacists, physiotherapists and other professionals to support doctors.\n\nIt took over the Christmas Maltings & Clements Practice in Haverhill in May 2017.\n"}
{"id": "38804631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38804631", "title": "Suicide in Greenland", "text": "Suicide in Greenland\n\nSuicide in Greenland is a significant national social issue. Greenland has the highest suicide rate in the world: reports between 1985 and 2012 showed that an average of 83 people in 100,000 committed suicide, more than twice the rate of the second placed country, Lithuania. \n\nGreenland is a geographically and culturally isolated nation, as well as one of the coldest and least populous countries in the world. Although facts like these may contribute to suicide-related issues, it is not clear if they have direct influences on Greenlandic suicides. Furthermore, different initiatives have been taken to reduce the suicide rate in the country, such as roadside posters, and a national suicide prevention strategy involving courses, education, local communities and professionals (such as teachers, social workers and doctors) has been initiated.\n\nThe number of suicides in Greenland began to rise in the 1970s; it kept increasing until 1986. In 1986, suicide was the leading cause of death in several towns, such as Sarfannguit. In 1970, the rate of suicide in Greenland was historically very low, but by 1990–1994, it had become one of the highest in the world with 107 per 100,000 persons committing suicide per year. A similar relatively fast rise to a very high suicide rate has been observed among the Inuit in Canada. Greenland Government data reported in 2010 suggest that almost one suicide occurred a week.\nAn article published in the journal \"BMC Psychiatry\" in 2009 reported that a total of 1,351 suicides took place in Greenland during the study period of 35 years (1968–2002). In the study, significant seasonal variation of the suicide rate was noted, characterized by peaks in June and troughs in the winter. The clustering of suicides in summer months was more pronounced in areas north of the Arctic Circle. Regional variations are also observed; suicide rates in northern parts of west Greenland are higher than in southern parts.\n\nSuicide rates are higher for men than women. Most of the people dying by suicide are young men between the ages of 15-24. Unlike in other Western countries, the suicide rate in Greenland decreases with age.\n\nSeveral reasons are blamed for Greenland's high rate of suicide, including alcoholism, depression, poverty, conflict-ridden relationship with spouse, dysfunctional parental homes, etc. According to a report published in 2009, the suicide rate in Greenland increases during the summer. Researchers have blamed insomnia caused by incessant daylight.\n\nCulture clash between the traditional Inuit culture and modern Western culture is also assumed to be a contributing factor.\n\nViolent methods were used in 95% of suicide deaths. The most common methods were hanging (46%) and shooting (37%); other methods, such as jumping from heights, cutting with sharp objects, drowning, overdose of medication, and poisoning were also used, but less frequently.\n\nGreenland's government and international and national organizations have undertaken efforts and initiatives to prevent suicides. There are associations that provide support for people who feel suicidal. Measures include posters placed along the roads, which read: \"The call is free. No one is alone. Don't be alone with your dark thoughts. Call.\" Suicide consultants show films discouraging teenage suicide attempts. The first national suicide prevention strategy was initiated in 2005, followed by another in 2013 that involves courses, education, local communities and professionals (such as teachers, social workers and doctors). It also highlighted a number of places where further studies are needed.\n\n"}
{"id": "53417900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53417900", "title": "The Vectors of Mind", "text": "The Vectors of Mind\n\nVectors of Mind is a book by Louis Leon Thurstone.\n\n"}
{"id": "27148981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27148981", "title": "Torches of Freedom", "text": "Torches of Freedom\n\n\"Torches of Freedom\" was a phrase used to encourage women's smoking by exploiting women's aspirations for a better life during the women's liberation movement in the United States. Cigarettes were described as symbols of emancipation and equality with men. The term was first used by psychoanalyst A. A. Brill when describing the natural desire for women to smoke and was used by Edward Bernays to encourage women to smoke in public despite social taboos. Bernays hired women to march while smoking their “torches of freedom” in the Easter Sunday Parade of 1929 which was a significant moment for fighting social barriers for women smokers.\n\nBefore the twentieth century smoking was seen as a habit that was corrupt and inappropriate for women. Dutch painters used cigarettes as a symbol of human foolishness in the 17th century and in the 19th century, cigarettes were perceived as props of “fallen women” and prostitutes. Women’s smoking was seen as immoral and some states tried to prevent women from smoking by enforcing laws. In 1904 a woman named Jennie Lasher was sentenced to thirty days in jail for putting her children’s morals at risk by smoking in their presence and in 1908 the New York City Board of Aldermen unanimously passed an ordinance that prohibited smoking by women in public. Similarly in 1921 a bill was proposed to prohibit women from smoking in the District of Columbia. Some women’s groups also fought against women smoking. The International Tobacco League lobbied for filmmakers to refrain from putting women smoking cigarettes in movies unless the women being portrayed were of “discreditable” character and other women’s groups asked young girls to sign pledges saying that they would not use tobacco. These groups saw smoking as an immoral activity and a threat. Yet during World War I as women took the jobs of men who had gone to war, they also began smoking even though it was still considered a taboo act. Cigarettes were a way for women to challenge social norms and fight for equal rights as men. Eventually for women the cigarette came to symbolize “rebellious independence, glamour, seduction and sexual allure for both feminists and flappers.”\n\nCigarette companies began selectively advertising to women in the late 1920s. In 1928 George Washington Hill, the president of the American Tobacco Company, realized the potential market that could be found in women and said, “It will be like opening a gold mine right in our front yard.” Yet some women who were already smoking were seen as smoking incorrectly. In 1919 a hotel manager said that women “don’t really know what to do with the smoke. Neither do they know how to hold their cigarettes properly. Actually they make a mess of the whole performance.” Tobacco companies had to make sure that women would not be ridiculed for using cigarettes in public and Philip Morris even sponsored a lecture series that taught women the art of smoking.\n\nTo expand the number of women smokers Hill decided to hire Edward Bernays, who today is known as the father of public relations, to help him recruit women smokers. Bernays decided to attempt to eliminate the social taboo against women smoking in public. He gained advice from psychoanalyst A. A. Brill, who stated that it was normal for women to smoke because of oral fixation and said, “Today the emancipation of women has suppressed many of their feminine desires. More women now do the same work as men do. Many women bear no children; those who do bear have fewer children. Feminine traits are masked. Cigarettes, which are equated with men, become torches of freedom.” In 1929 Bernays decided to pay women to smoke their “torches of freedom” as they walked in the Easter Sunday Parade in New York. This was a shock because until that time, women were only permitted to smoke in certain places such as in the privacy of their own homes. He was very careful when picking women to march because “while they should be good looking, they should not look too model-y” and he hired his own photographers to make sure that good pictures were taken and then published around the world. Feminist Ruth Hale also called for women to join in the march saying, “Women! Light another torch of freedom! Fight another sex taboo!” Once the footage was released, the campaign was being talked about everywhere, the women’s walk was seen as a protest for equality and sparked discussion throughout the nation and is still known today. The targeting of women in tobacco advertising led to higher rates of smoking among women. In 1923 women only purchased 5% of cigarettes sold, in 1929 that percentage increased to 12%, in 1935 to 18.1%, peaking in 1965 at 33.3%, and remaining at this level until 1977.\n\nIn the 1990s, tobacco companies continued to advertise cigarettes as “torches of freedom” as they sought to expand their markets around the world. Such brands as Virginia Slims continued to put forward the idea of modernity and freedom in new markets. The use of this imagery when advertising the cigarette has been specifically targeted at women in countries where women are gaining more equality and liberation.\nThe images used in the advertising campaigns differ by region. In Spain they use images of women in masculine jobs, such as a fighter pilot, to appeal to young women-- and the smoking rates among young women in Spain increased from 17% in 1978 to 27% in 1997. Tobacco companies are also using the cigarette as an image of emancipation in eastern and central Europe where cigarettes are shown as symbols of Western freedom. In the 1990s Germany was a focus for advertising, and between 1993 and 1997 the smoking rates among women aged 12–25 in Germany went from 27% to 47% even though the increase in men’s smoking for the same age group is much smaller. In Japan, various cigarettes advertised to women have encouraged women to be unique. A survey by the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare showed that between 1986 and 1999 smoking among women had increased from 10.5% to 23.2%. Advertisements in South Africa have shown women crossing racial barriers as black women are shown accepting cigarettes from white men and in India women have been portrayed in Western clothes with cigarettes as a sign of liberation and upward mobility. In Asia it is becoming more acceptable for women to smoke and this is leading to a greater demand. Tobacco companies advertise to women around the world, showing cigarettes as symbols of upward mobility, gender equality and freedom. The impacts of tobacco companies targeting women can be seen by the increase in the number of women who started smoking in recent years.\n"}
{"id": "6723032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6723032", "title": "ULTRA (UK agency)", "text": "ULTRA (UK agency)\n\nULTRA, the Unrelated Live Transplant Regulatory Authority, was a British agency that regulated organ transplants. According to the official website:\n\nIn September 2006, ULTRA disbanded. Its functions were transferred to the Human Tissue Authority, a Non-departmental public body of the Department of Health.\n\n"}
{"id": "12623169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12623169", "title": "Veterinary anesthesia", "text": "Veterinary anesthesia\n\nVeterinary anesthesia is anesthesia performed on non-human animals by a veterinarian or a Registered Veterinary Technician. Anesthesia is used for a wider range of circumstances in animals than in people, due to animals' inability to cooperate with certain diagnostic or therapeutic procedures. Veterinary anesthesia includes anesthesia of the major species: dogs, cats, horses, cattle, sheep, goats, and pigs, as well as all other animals requiring veterinary care such as birds, pocket pets, and wildlife.\n\nIn North America, the American College of Veterinary Anesthesia and Analgesia is one of 21 specialty organizations recognized by the American Veterinary Medical Association. The ACVAA was recognized by the AVMA in 1975, despite attempts by the AVMA to include anesthesia as a subspecialty of surgery or medicine. As of 2016, there are more than 250 diplomates of the ACVAA. To become an ACVAA board-certified Diplomate, veterinarians must have at least one year of clinical practice experience followed by three years of anesthesia residency training under the supervision of ACVAA Diplomates, have accepted for publication a scientific peer-reviewed research article, and passed both a written and oral examination.\n\nIn Europe, the European College of Veterinary Anaesthesia and Analgesia (ECVAA) is one of 23 specialty organizations recognized by the European Board of Veterinary Specialisation. As of February 2014, there are 147 ECVA Diplomates.\n\nEvidence exists that suggests that anesthesia which is supervised by a qualified technician is safer than anesthesia without a technician. In most private veterinary practices, the technician administers and monitors anesthesia with supervision from the attending veterinarian. In many academic institutions, anesthesia technicians are involved in working with and teaching veterinary students as well as supervising anesthetized cases. The Academy of Veterinary Technicians in Anesthesia and Analgesia is a provisional specialty academy of the North American Veterinary Technician Association and is responsible for licensing technicians as being specialized in anesthesia. For a technician to become specialized, they must be a licensed technician in their state, accumulate 6000 hours of work in veterinary medicine (at least 75% of which must be in anesthesia), 40 hours of continuing education related to anesthesia, demonstrate proficiency in anesthesia skills, and pass a comprehensive written examination.\n\nAnesthesia is required for many surgical procedures which require the patient to be immobile, unaware, and without pain. Furthermore, anesthesia aims to minimize the surgical stress response. In addition, certain diagnostic procedures require anesthesia, notably stomach or airway endoscopy, bone marrow sampling, and occasionally ultrasound. Aggressive animals may require anesthesia in order to handle and perform a physical exam or obtain blood for testing. Exotic animals frequently require anesthesia for simple procedures (such as taking a radiograph or catheter placement) due to lack of domesticity. Animals may require anesthesia for therapeutic procedures, such as urinary catheterization to relieve obstruction, injection into a mass, or removing fluid from the eye to treat glaucoma.\n\nIn addition to anesthesia, analgesia is often managed by anesthesiologists or is included in the considerations for anesthesia.\n\nCats and dogs are frequently anesthetized for surgical procedures. Small animals are most often placed under general anesthesia due to the types of procedures typically performed, the small size of the patient, their suitability to general anesthesia, and the greater degree of control. A balanced anesthesia protocol can be used whereby different drugs with different effects are used so that a high dose of just one drug can be avoided. For example, combining a sedative and an opioid will permit less inhalant anesthesia to be used, improving cardiovascular stability. A one-year study in a teaching hospital shows that dogs and cats typically experience a 1 in 9 chance of anesthetic complications, with a 1 in 233 risk of death. A larger-scale study states the risk of death in healthy dogs and cats as 1 in 1849 and 1 in 895 respectively. For sick dogs and cats, it was 1 in 75 and 1 in 71 respectively. For rabbits, the risk was 1 in 137 and 1 in 14 respectively for the healthy and sick groups.\n\nMany procedures can be performed on the standing horse with heavy sedation alone. Some procedures may require general anesthesia due to the location of surgery (for example, castration). Other procedures in horses require general anesthesia using an inhalant anesthetic. Horses, due to their complex physiology as performance animals, suffer a number of difficulties that can complicate anesthesia. This results in horses having a higher risk of perioperative fatality - approximately 1 in 400.\n\nMost procedures in ruminants can be performed standing under sedation and/or local anesthesia. This strategy is manageable due to the types of procedures being performed, the larger size of the patient, the relative difficulty of general anesthesia, and the cost of the procedure versus the product value of the animal.\n\nAnesthesia of exotic animals (guinea pigs, rabbits, birds) is challenging and the higher peri-anesthetic mortality in these species compared to dogs and cats, attests to this fact. These animals are challenging to anesthetize for a number of reasons: very little research has been carried out on safe and effective drug doses for specific species; exotic pets often 'hide' the fact that they are sick and by the time owners realize how sick the pet is the course of the disease is far advanced; the unique anatomy and physiology of exotic pets poses challenges for anesthetic management. For example, the anatomy of the respiratory system of birds, Guinea pigs, and reptiles makes it difficult to induce and maintain anesthesia solely with inhalation agents such as isoflurane and sevoflurane. Injectable drugs such as sedatives or tranquilizers are often used in these patients to facilitate induction and maintenance of anesthesia.\n\nMost anesthetic agents used in human medicine are used in veterinary medicine. Alpha-2 receptor agonist drugs such as xylazine, romifidine, detomidine, and medetomidine, are used frequently in veterinary species (particularly large animal), but are rarely used in people. Guaifenesin is used as a muscle relaxant prior to anesthesia induction in some animals. Propofol is commonly used in small animal anesthesia, however it is rarely used in large animals due to the cost. 'Propoclear' is also commonly used in smaller branches of small animal surgery as it has a longer shelf life once opened than propofol whilst essentially having the same properties. Butorphanol is rarely used in people but is commonly used in all species. Ketamine, used in children for anesthesia, is used extensively in many species to induce anesthesia or cause heavy sedation. Expensive agents, such as etomidate and desflurane are rarely used outside of university hospitals. Different species have different responses to drugs. For example, horses may experience mania with morphine whereas dogs typically become sedated. Rabbits and guinea pigs are well sedated with midazolam, which can occasionally excite dogs and cats.\n\nTranquilizer gun (Anesthetic dart gun)\n\n"}
{"id": "2475627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2475627", "title": "WHO Disease Staging System for HIV Infection and Disease in Children", "text": "WHO Disease Staging System for HIV Infection and Disease in Children\n\nThe current staging system for HIV infection in children was developed in 2005 and builds upon the staging system in place since 1987. A child is defined as someone under the age of 15. This staging system also requires the presence of HIV infection: HIV antibody for children aged 18 months or more; virological or p24 antigen positive test if aged under 18 months.\n\nAsymptomatic\n\nPersistent generalized lymphadenopathy\n\nHepatosplenomegaly\n\nPapular pruritic eruptions\n\nSeborrhoeic dermatitis\n\nExtensive human papilloma virus infection\n\nExtensive molluscum contagiosum\n\nFungal nail infections\n\nRecurrent oral ulcerations\n\nLineal gingival erythema (LGE)\n\nAngular cheilitis\n\nParotid enlargement\n\nHerpes zoster\n\nRecurrent or chronic RTIs (otitis media, otorrhoea, sinusitis)\n\nConditions where a presumptive diagnosis can be made on the basis of clinical signs or simple investigations\n\nModerate unexplained malnutrition not adequately responding to standard therapy\n\nUnexplained persistent diarrhoea (14 days or more)\n\nUnexplained persistent fever (intermittent or constant, for longer than one month)\n\nOral candidiasis (outside neonatal period)\n\nOral hairy leukoplakia\n\nAcute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis/periodontitis\n\nPulmonary TB\n\nSevere recurrent presumed bacterial pneumonia\n\nConditions where confirmatory diagnostic testing is necessary\n\nChronic HIV-associated lung disease including brochiectasis\n\nLymphoid interstitial pneumonitis (LIP)\n\nUnexplained anaemia (<80g/l), and or neutropenia (<1000/µl) and or\n\nthrombocytopenia (<50 000/µl) for more than one month\n\nConditions where a presumptive diagnosis can be made on the basis of clinical signs or simple investigations\n\nUnexplained severe wasting or severe malnutrition not adequately responding to standard therapy\n\nPneumocystis pneumonia\n\nRecurrent severe presumed bacterial infections (e.g. empyema, pyomyositis, bone or joint infection, meningitis, but excluding pneumonia)\n\nChronic herpes simplex infection; (orolabial or cutaneous of more than one month’s duration)\n\nExtrapulmonary Tuberculosis\n\nKaposi’s sarcoma\n\nOesophageal candidiasis\n\nCentral nervous system toxoplasmosis (outside the neonatal period)\n\nHIV encephalopathy\n\nConditions where confirmatory diagnostic testing is necessary\n\nHCMV infection (CMV retinitis or infection of organs other than liver, spleen or lymph nodes; onset at age one month or more)\n\nExtrapulmonary cryptococcosis including meningitis\n\nAny disseminated endemic mycosis (e.g. extrapulmonary histoplasmosis, coccidiomycosis, penicilliosis)\n\nCryptosporidiosis\n\nIsosporiasis\n\nDisseminated non-tuberculous mycobacteria infection\n\nCandida of trachea, bronchi or lungs\n\nVisceral herpes simplex infection\n\nAcquired HIV associated rectal fistula\n\nCerebral or B cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma\n\nProgressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML)\n\nHIV-associated cardiomyopathy or HIV-associated nephropathy\n\nThe presumptive diagnosis above is designed for use where access to confirmatory diagnostic testing for HIV infection by means of virological testing (usually nucleic acid testing, NAT) or P24 antigen testing for infants and children aged under 18 months is not readily available.\n"}
{"id": "15380061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15380061", "title": "Water scarcity", "text": "Water scarcity\n\nWater scarcity is the lack of fresh water resources to meet water demand. It affects every continent and was listed in 2015 by the World Economic Forum as the largest global risk in terms of potential impact over the next decade. It is manifested by partial or no satisfaction of expressed demand, economic competition for water quantity or quality, disputes between users, irreversible depletion of groundwater, and negative impacts on the environment. One-third of the global population (2 billion people) live under conditions of severe water scarcity at least 1 month of the year. Half a billion people in the world face severe water scarcity all year round. Half of the world’s largest cities experience water scarcity.\n\nA mere 0.014% of all water on Earth is both fresh and easily accessible. Of the remaining water, 97% is saline and a little less than 3% is hard to access. Technically, there is a sufficient amount of freshwater on a global scale. However, due to unequal distribution (exacerbated by climate change) resulting in some very wet and some very dry geographic locations, plus a sharp rise in global freshwater demand in recent decades driven by industry, humanity is facing a water crisis. Demand is expected to outstrip supply by 40% in 2030, if current trends continue.\n\nThe essence of global water scarcity is the geographic and temporal mismatch between freshwater demand and availability. The increasing world population, improving living standards, changing consumption patterns, and expansion of irrigated agriculture are the main driving forces for the rising global demand for water. Climate change, such as altered weather-patterns (including droughts or floods), deforestation, increased pollution, green house gases, and wasteful use of water can cause insufficient supply. At the global level and on an annual basis, enough freshwater is available to meet such demand, but spatial and temporal variations of water demand and availability are large, leading to (physical) water scarcity in several parts of the world during specific times of the year. All causes of water scarcity are related to human interference with the water cycle. Scarcity varies over time as a result of natural hydrological variability, but varies even more so as a function of prevailing economic policy, planning and management approaches. Scarcity can be expected to intensify with most forms of economic development, but, if correctly identified, many of its causes can be predicted, avoided or mitigated.\n\nSome countries have already proven that decoupling water use from economic growth is possible. For example, in Australia, water consumption declined by 40% between 2001 and 2009 while the economy grew by more than 30%. The International Resource Panel of the UN states that governments have tended to invest heavily in largely inefficient solutions: mega-projects like dams, canals, aqueducts, pipelines and water reservoirs, which are generally neither environmentally sustainable nor economically viable. The most cost-effective way of decoupling water use from economic growth, according to the scientific panel, is for governments to create holistic water management plans that take into account the entire water cycle: from source to distribution, economic use, treatment, recycling, reuse and return to the environment.\n\nThe total amount of easily accessible freshwater on Earth, in the form of surface water (rivers and lakes) or groundwater (in aquifers, for example), is 14.000 cubic kilometres (nearly 3359 cubic miles). Of this total amount, 'just' 5.000 cubic kilometres are being used and reused by humanity. Hence, in theory, there is more than enough freshwater available to meet the demands of the current world population of 7 billion people, and even support population growth to 9 billion or more. Due to the unequal geographical distribution and especially the unequal consumption of water, however, it is a scarce resource in some parts of the world and for some parts of the population.\n\nScarcity as a result of consumption is caused primarily by the extensive use of water in agriculture/livestock breeding and industry. People in developed countries generally use about 10 times more water daily than those in developing countries. A large part of this is \"indirect use\" in water-intensive agricultural and industrial production processes of consumer goods, such as fruit, oil seed crops and cotton. Because many of these production chains have been globalised, a lot of water in developing countries is being used and polluted in order to produce goods destined for consumption in developed countries.\n\nWater scarcity can result from two mechanisms:\n\n\nPhysical water scarcity results from inadequate natural water resources to supply a region's demand, and economic water scarcity results from poor management of the sufficient available water resources. According to the United Nations Development Programme, the latter is found more often to be the cause of countries or regions experiencing water scarcity, as most countries or regions have enough water to meet household, industrial, agricultural, and environmental needs, but lack the means to provide it in an accessible manner.\nAround one fifth of the world's population currently live in regions affected by Physical water scarcity, where there is inadequate water resources to meet a country's or regional demand, including the water needed to fulfill the demand of ecosystems to function effectively. Arid regions frequently suffer from physical water scarcity. It also occurs where water seems abundant but where resources are over-committed, such as when there is over development of hydraulic infrastructure for irrigation. Symptoms of physical water scarcity include environmental degradation and declining groundwater as well as other forms of exploitation or overuse.\n\nEconomic water scarcity is caused by a lack of investment in infrastructure or technology to draw water from rivers, aquifers or other water sources, or insufficient human capacity to satisfy the demand for water. One quarter of the world's population is affected by economic water scarcity. Economic water scarcity includes a lack of infrastructure, causing the people without reliable access to water to have to travel long distances to fetch water, that is often contaminated from rivers for domestic and agricultural uses. Large parts of Africa suffer from economic water scarcity; developing water infrastructure in those areas could therefore help to reduce poverty. Critical conditions often arise for economically poor and politically weak communities living in already dry environment. Consumption increases with GDP per capita in most developed countries the average amount is around 200–300 litres daily. In underdeveloped countries (e.g. African countries such as Mozambique), average daily water consumption per capita was below 10 L. This is against the backdrop of international organisations, which recommend a minimum of 20 L of water (not including the water needed for washing clothes), available at most 1 km from the household. Increased water consumption is correlated with increasing income, as measured by GDP per capita. In countries suffering from water shortages water is the subject of speculation.\n\nThe United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights established a foundation of five core attributes for water security. They declare that the human right to water entitles everyone to sufficient, safe, acceptable, physically accessible, and affordable water for personal and domestic use.\n\nAt the 2000 Millennium Summit, the United Nations addressed the effects of economic water scarcity by making increased access to safe drinking water an international development goal. During this time, they drafted the Millennium Development Goals and all 189 UN members agreed on eight goals. MDG 7 sets a target for reducing the proportion of the population without sustainable safe drinking water access by half by 2015. This would mean that more than 600 million people would gain access to a safe source of drinking water. In 2016, the Sustainable Development Goals replaced the Millennium Development Goals\n\nWater scarcity has many negative impacts on the environment, including lakes, rivers, wetlands and other fresh water resources. The resulting water overuse that is related to water scarcity, often located in areas of irrigation agriculture, harms the environment in several ways including increased salinity, nutrient pollution, and the loss of floodplains and wetlands. Furthermore, water scarcity makes flow management in the rehabilitation of urban streams problematic.\n\nThrough the last hundred years, more than half of the Earth's wetlands have been destroyed and have disappeared. These wetlands are important not only because they are the habitats of numerous inhabitants such as mammals, birds, fish, amphibians, and invertebrates, but they support the growing of rice and other food crops as well as provide water filtration and protection from storms and flooding. Freshwater lakes such as the Aral Sea in central Asia have also suffered. Once the fourth largest freshwater lake, it has lost more than 58,000 square km of area and vastly increased in salt concentration over the span of three decades.\n\nSubsidence, or the gradual sinking of landforms, is another result of water scarcity. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that subsidence has affected more than 17,000 square miles in 45 U.S. states, 80 percent of it due to groundwater usage. In some areas east of Houston, Texas the land has dropped by more than nine feet due to subsidence. Brownwood, a subdivision near Baytown, Texas, was abandoned due to frequent flooding caused by subsidence and has since become part of the Baytown Nature Center.\n\nAquifer drawdown or overdrafting and the pumping of fossil water increases the total amount of water within the hydrosphere subject to transpiration and evaporation processes, thereby causing accretion in water vapour and cloud cover, the primary absorbers of infrared radiation in the earth's atmosphere. Adding water to the system has a forcing effect on the whole earth system, an accurate estimate of which hydrogeological fact is yet to be quantified.\n\nApart from the conventional surface water sources of freshwater such as rivers and lakes, other resources of freshwater such as groundwater and glaciers have become more developed sources of freshwater, becoming the main source of clean water. Groundwater is water that has pooled below the surface of the Earth and can provide a usable quantity of water through springs or wells. These areas where groundwater is collected are also known as aquifers. Glaciers provide freshwater in the form meltwater, or freshwater melted from snow or ice, that supply streams or springs as temperatures rise. More and more of these sources are being drawn upon as conventional sources' usability decreases due to factors such as pollution or disappearance due to climate changes. The exponential growth rate of the human population is a main contributing factor in the increasing use of these types of water resources.\n\nUntil recent 2015, groundwater was not a highly utilized resource. In the 1960s, more and more groundwater aquifers developed. Changes in knowledge, technology and funding have allowed for focused development into abstracting water from groundwater resources away from surface water resources. These changes allowed for progress in society such as the \"agricultural groundwater revolution\", expanding the irrigation sector allowing for increased food production and development in rural areas. Groundwater supplies nearly half of all drinking water in the world. The large volumes of water stored underground in most aquifers have a considerable buffer capacity allowing for water to be withdrawn during periods of drought or little rainfall. This is crucial for people that live in regions that cannot depend on precipitation or surface water as a supply alone, instead providing reliable access to water all year round. As of 2010, the world's aggregated groundwater abstraction is estimated at approximately 1,000 kmper year, with 67% used for irrigation, 22% used for domestic purposes and 11% used for industrial purposes. The top ten major consumers of abstracted water (India, China, United States of America, Pakistan, Iran, Bangladesh, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, and Italy) make up 72% of all abstracted water use worldwide. Groundwater has become crucial for the livelihoods and food security of 1.2 to 1.5 billion rural households in the poorer regions of Africa and Asia.\n\nAlthough groundwater sources are quite prevalent, one major area of concern is the renewal rate or recharge rate of some groundwater sources. Abstracting from groundwater sources that are non-renewable could lead to exhaustion if not properly monitored and managed. Another concern of increased groundwater usage is the diminished water quality of the source over time. Reduction of natural outflows, decreasing stored volumes, declining water levels and water degradation are commonly observed in groundwater systems. Groundwater depletion may result in many negative effects such as increased cost of groundwater pumping, induced salinity and other water quality changes, land subsidence, degraded springs and reduced baseflows. Human pollution is also harmful to this important resource.\n\nTo set up a big plant near a water abundant area, bottled water companies need to extract groundwater from a source at a rate more than the replenishment rate leading to the persistent decline in the groundwater levels. The groundwater is taken out, bottled, and then shipped all over the country or world and this water never goes back. When the water table depletes beyond a critical limit, bottling companies just move from that area leaving a grave water scarcity. Groundwater depletion impacts everyone and everything in the area who uses water: farmers, businesses, animals, ecosystems, tourism, and the regular guy getting his water from a well. Millions of gallons of water out of the ground leaves the water table depleted uniformly and not just in that area because the water table is connected across the landmass. Bottling Plants generate water scarcity and impact ecological balance. They lead to water stressed areas which bring in droughts.\n\nGlaciers are noted as a vital water source due to their contribution to stream flow. Rising global temperatures have noticeable effects on the rate at which glaciers melt, causing glaciers in general to shrink worldwide. Although the meltwater from these glaciers are increasing the total water supply for the present, the disappearance of glaciers in the long term will diminish available water resources. Increased meltwater due to rising global temperatures can also have negative effects such as flooding of lakes and dams and catastrophic results.\n\nHydrologists today typically assess water scarcity by looking at the population-water equation. This is done by comparing the amount of total available water resources per year to the population of a country or region. A popular approach to measuring water scarcity has been to rank countries according to the amount of annual water resources available per person. For example, according to the Falkenmark Water Stress Indicator, a country or region is said to experience \"water stress\" when annual water supplies drop below 1,700 cubic metres per person per year. At levels between 1,700 and 1,000 cubic metres per person per year, periodic or limited water shortages can be expected. When water supplies drop below 1,000 cubic metres per person per year, the country faces \"water scarcity\". The United Nations' FAO states that by 2025, 1.9 billion people will live in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity, and two-thirds of the world population could be under stress conditions. The World Bank adds that climate change could profoundly alter future patterns of both water availability and use, thereby increasing levels of water stress and insecurity, both at the global scale and in sectors that depend on water.\n\nOther ways of measuring water scarcity include examining the physical existence of water in nature, comparing nations with lower or higher volumes of water available for use. This method often fails to capture the accessibility of the water resource to the population that may need it. Others have related water availability to population.\n\nAnother measurement, calculated as part of a wider assessment of water management in 2007, aimed to relate water availability to how the resource was actually used. It therefore divided water scarcity into 'physical' and 'economic'. Physical water scarcity is where there is not enough water to meet all demands, including that needed for ecosystems to function effectively. Arid regions frequently suffer from physical water scarcity. It also occurs where water seems abundant but where resources are over-committed, such as when there is overdevelopment of hydraulic infrastructure for irrigation. Symptoms of physical water scarcity include environmental degradation and declining groundwater. Water stress harms living things because every organism needs water to live.\n\nRenewable freshwater supply is a metric often used in conjunction when evaluating water scarcity. This metric is informative because it can describe the total available water resource each country contains. By knowing the total available water source, an idea can be gained about whether a country is prone to experiencing physical water scarcity. This metric has its faults in that it is an average; precipitation delivers water unevenly across the planet each year and annual renewable water resources vary from year to year. This metric also does not describe the accessibility of water to individuals, households, industries, or the government. Lastly, as this metric is a description of a whole country, it does not accurately portray whether a country is experiencing water scarcity. Canada and Brazil both have very high levels of available water supply, but still experience various water related problems.\n\nIt can be observed that tropical countries in Asia and Africa have low availability of freshwater resources.\n\nThe following table displays the average annual renewable freshwater supply by country including both surface-water and groundwater supplies. This table represents data from the UN FAO AQUASTAT, much of which are produced by modeling or estimation as opposed to actual measurements.\n\nThe United Nations (UN) estimates that, of 1.4 billion cubic kilometers (1 quadrillion acre-feet) of water on Earth, just 200,000 cubic kilometers (162.1 billion acre-feet) represent fresh water available for human consumption.\n\nMore than one in every six people in the world is water stressed, meaning that they do not have sufficient access to potable water. Those that are water stressed make up 1.1 billion people in the world and are living in developing countries. According to the Falkenmark Water Stress Indicator, a country or region is said to experience \"water stress\" when annual water supplies drop below 1,700 cubic metres per person per year. At levels between 1,700 and 1,000 cubic meters per person per year, periodic or limited water shortages can be expected. When a country is below 1,000 cubic meters per person per year, the country then faces water scarcity . In 2006, about 700 million people in 43 countries were living below the 1,700 cubic metres per person threshold. Water stress is ever intensifying in regions such as China, India, and Sub-Saharan Africa, which contains the largest number of water stressed countries of any region with almost one fourth of the population living in a water stressed country. The world's most water stressed region is the Middle East with averages of 1,200 cubic metres of water per person. In China, more than 538 million people are living in a water-stressed region. Much of the water stressed population currently live in river basins where the usage of water resources greatly exceed the renewal of the water source.\n\nAnother popular opinion is that the amount of available freshwater is decreasing because of climate change. Climate change has caused receding glaciers, reduced stream and river flow, and shrinking lakes and ponds. Many aquifers have been over-pumped and are not recharging quickly. Although the total fresh water supply is not used up, much has become polluted, salted, unsuitable or otherwise unavailable for drinking, industry and agriculture. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet growing demands for food, while industry and cities find ways to use water more efficiently.\n\nA New York Times article, \"Southeast Drought Study Ties Water Shortage to Population, Not Global Warming\", summarizes the findings of Columbia University researcher on the subject of the droughts in the American Southeast between 2005 and 2007. The findings published in the \"Journal of Climate\" say that the water shortages resulted from population size more than rainfall. Census figures show that Georgia’s population rose from 6.48 to 9.54 million between 1990 and 2007. After studying data from weather instruments, computer models, and tree ring measurements, they found that the droughts were not unprecedented and result from normal climate patterns and random weather events. \"Similar droughts unfolded over the last thousand years\", the researchers wrote, \"Regardless of climate change, they added, similar weather patterns can be expected regularly in the future, with similar results.\" As the temperature increases, rainfall in the Southeast will increase but because of evaporation the area may get even drier. The researchers concluded with a statement saying that any rainfall comes from complicated internal processes in the atmosphere and are very hard to predict because of the large amount of variables.\n\nWhen there is not enough potable water for a given population, the threat of a \"water crisis\" is realized.\nThe United Nations and other world organizations consider a variety of regions to have water crises of global concern. Other organizations, such as the Food and Agriculture Organization, argue that there are no water crises in such places, but steps must still be taken to avoid one.\n\nThere are several principal manifestations of the water crisis.\n\nWaterborne diseases caused by lack of sanitation and hygiene are one of the leading causes of death worldwide. For children under age five, waterborne diseases are a leading cause of death. According to the World Bank, 88 percent of all waterborne diseases are caused by unsafe drinking water, inadequate sanitation and poor hygiene.\n\nWater is the underlying tenuous balance of safe water supply, but controllable factors such as the management and distribution of the water supply itself contribute to further scarcity.\n\nA 2006 United Nations report focuses on issues of governance as the core of the water crisis, saying \"There is enough water for everyone\" and \"Water insufficiency is often due to mismanagement, corruption, lack of appropriate institutions, bureaucratic inertia and a shortage of investment in both human capacity and physical infrastructure\". Official data also shows a clear correlation between access to safe water and GDP per capita.\n\nIt has also been claimed, primarily by economists, that the water situation has occurred because of a lack of property rights, government regulations and subsidies in the water sector, causing prices to be too low and consumption too high.\n\nVegetation and wildlife are fundamentally dependent upon adequate freshwater resources. Marshes, bogs and riparian zones are more obviously dependent upon sustainable water supply, but forests and other upland ecosystems are equally at risk of significant productivity changes as water availability is diminished. In the case of wetlands, considerable area has been simply taken from wildlife use to feed and house the expanding human population. But other areas have suffered reduced productivity from gradual diminishing of freshwater inflow, as upstream sources are diverted for human use. In seven states of the U.S. over 80 percent of all historic wetlands were filled by the 1980s, when Congress acted to create a \"no net loss\" of wetlands.\n\nIn Europe extensive loss of wetlands has also occurred with resulting loss of biodiversity. For example, many bogs in Scotland have been developed or diminished through human population expansion. One example is the Portlethen Moss in Aberdeenshire.\n\nOn Madagascar's highland plateau, a massive transformation occurred that eliminated virtually all the heavily forested vegetation in the period 1970 to 2000. The slash and burn agriculture eliminated about ten percent of the total country's native biomass and converted it to a barren wasteland. These effects were from overpopulation and the necessity to feed poor indigenous peoples, but the adverse effects included widespread gully erosion that in turn produced heavily silted rivers that \"run red\" decades after the deforestation. This eliminated a large amount of usable fresh water and also destroyed much of the riverine ecosystems of several large west-flowing rivers. Several fish species have been driven to the edge of extinction and some, such as the disturbed Tokios coral reef formations in the Indian Ocean, are effectively lost.\nIn October 2008, Peter Brabeck-Letmathe, chairman and former chief executive of Nestlé, warned that the production of biofuels will further deplete the world's water supply.\n\nThere are many other countries of the world that are severely impacted with regard to human health and inadequate drinking water. The following is a partial list of some of the countries with significant populations (numerical population of affected population listed) whose only consumption is of contaminated water:\n\nSeveral world maps showing various aspects of the problem can be found in this graph article.\n\nWater deficits, which are already spurring heavy grain imports in numerous smaller countries, may soon do the same in larger countries, such as China and India. The water tables are falling in scores of countries (including Northern China, the US, and India) due to widespread overpumping using powerful diesel and electric pumps. Other countries affected include Pakistan, Iran, and Mexico. This will eventually lead to water scarcity and cutbacks in grain harvest. Even with the overpumping of its aquifers, China is developing a grain deficit. When this happens, it will almost certainly drive grain prices upward. Most of the 3 billion people projected to be added worldwide by mid-century will be born in countries already experiencing water shortages. Unless population growth can be slowed quickly, it is feared that there may not be a practical non-violent or humane solution to the emerging world water shortage.\n\nAfter China and India, there is a second tier of smaller countries with large water deficits — Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Mexico, and Pakistan.\n\nAccording to a UN climate report, the Himalayan glaciers that are the sources of Asia's biggest rivers – Ganges, Indus, Brahmaputra, Yangtze, Mekong, Salween and Yellow – could disappear by 2035 as temperatures rise. It was later revealed that the source used by the UN climate report actually stated 2350, not 2035. Approximately 2.4 billion people live in the drainage basin of the Himalayan rivers. India, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar could experience floods followed by droughts in coming decades. In India alone, the Ganges provides water for drinking and farming for more than 500 million people. The west coast of North America, which gets much of its water from glaciers in mountain ranges such as the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada, also would be affected.\n\nBy far the largest part of Australia is desert or semi-arid lands commonly known as the outback. In June 2008 it became known that an expert panel had warned of long term, possibly irreversible, severe ecological damage for the whole Murray-Darling basin if it does not receive sufficient water by October. Water restrictions are currently in place in many regions and cities of Australia in response to chronic shortages resulting from drought. The Australian of the year 2007, environmentalist Tim Flannery, predicted that unless it made drastic changes, Perth in Western Australia could become the world’s first ghost metropolis, an abandoned city with no more water to sustain its population. However, Western Australia's dams reached 50% capacity for the first time since 2000 as of September 2009. As a result, heavy rains brought forth positive results for the region. Nonetheless, the following year, 2010, Perth suffered its second-driest winter on record and the water corporation tightened water restrictions for spring.\n\nConstruction of wastewater treatment plants and reduction of groundwater overdrafting appear to be obvious solutions to the worldwide problem; however, a deeper look reveals more fundamental issues in play. Wastewater treatment is highly capital intensive, restricting access to this technology in some regions; furthermore the rapid increase in population of many countries makes this a race that is difficult to win. As if those factors are not daunting enough, one must consider the enormous costs and skill sets involved to maintain wastewater treatment plants even if they are successfully developed.\n\nReducing groundwater overdrafting is usually politically unpopular, and can have major economic impacts on farmers. Moreover, this strategy necessarily reduces crop output, something the world can ill-afford given the current population.\n\nAt more realistic levels, developing countries can strive to achieve primary wastewater treatment or secure septic systems, and carefully analyse wastewater outfall design to minimize impacts to drinking water and to ecosystems. Developed countries can not only share technology better, including cost-effective wastewater and water treatment systems but also in hydrological transport modeling. At the individual level, people in developed countries can look inward and reduce over consumption, which further strains worldwide water consumption. Both developed and developing countries can increase protection of ecosystems, especially wetlands and riparian zones. There measures will not only conserve biota, but also render more effective the natural water cycle flushing and transport that make water systems more healthy for humans.\n\nA range of local, low-tech solutions are being pursued by a number of companies. These efforts center around the use of solar power to distill water at temperatures slightly beneath that at which water boils. By developing the capability to purify any available water source, local business models could be built around the new technologies, accelerating their uptake. For example, Bedouins from the town of Dahab in Egypt have installed Aqua Danial's Water Stellar, which uses a solar thermal collector measuring two square meters to distill from 40 to 60 liters per day from any local water source. This is five times more efficient than conventional stills and eliminates the need for polluting plastic PET bottles or transportation of water supply.\n\nIt is alleged that the likelihood of conflict rises if the rate of change within the basin exceeds the capacity of institution to absorb that change. Although water crisis is closely related to regional tensions, history showed that acute conflicts over water are far less than the record of cooperation.\n\nThe key lies in strong institutions and cooperation. The Indus River Commission and the Indus Water Treaty survived two wars between India and Pakistan despite their hostility, proving to be a successful mechanism in resolving conflicts by providing a framework for consultation inspection and exchange of data. The Mekong Committee has also functioned since 1957 and survived the Vietnam War. In contrast, regional instability results when there is an absence of institutions to co-operate in regional collaboration, like Egypt's plan for a high dam on the Nile. However, there is currently no global institution in place for the management and management of trans-boundary water sources, and international co-operation has happened through ad hoc collaborations between agencies, like the Mekong Committee which was formed due to an alliance between UNICEF and the US Bureau of Reclamation. Formation of strong international institutions seems to be a way forward – they fuel early intervention and management, preventing the costly dispute resolution process.\n\nOne common feature of almost all resolved disputes is that the negotiations had a \"need-based\" instead of a \"right–based\" paradigm. Irrigable lands, population, technicalities of projects define \"needs\". The success of a need-based paradigm is reflected in the only water agreement ever negotiated in the Jordan River Basin, which focuses in needs not on rights of riparians. In the Indian subcontinent, irrigation requirements of Bangladesh determine water allocations of the Ganges River. A need-based, regional approach focuses on satisfying individuals with their need of water, ensuring that minimum quantitative needs are being met. It removes the conflict that arises when countries view the treaty from a national interest point of view, move away from the zero-sum approach to a positive sum, integrative approach that equitably allocated the water and its benefits.\n\nThe Blue Peace framework developed by Strategic Foresight Group in partnership with the Governments of Switzerland and Sweden offers a unique policy structure which promotes sustainable management of water resources combined with cooperation for peace. By making the most of shared water resources through cooperation rather than mere allocation between countries, the chances for peace can be increased. The Blue Peace approach has proven to be effective in cases like the Middle East and the Nile basin. NGOs like Water.org, There Is No Limit Foundation, and are leading the way in providing access to clean water.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5769363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5769363", "title": "Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers", "text": "Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers\n\nWhy Zebras Don't Get Ulcers is a 1994 (2nd ed. 1998, 3rd ed. 2004) book by Stanford University biologist Robert M. Sapolsky. The book proclaims itself as a \"Guide to Stress, Stress-Related Diseases, and Coping\" on the front cover of its third and most recent edition. The title derives from Sapolsky's idea that for animals such as zebras, stress is generally episodic (e.g., running away from a lion), while for humans, stress is often chronic (e.g., worrying about losing your job). Therefore, many wild animals are less susceptible than humans to chronic stress-related disorders such as ulcers, hypertension, decreased neurogenesis and increased hippocampal neuronal atrophy. However, chronic stress occurs in some social primates (Sapolsky studies baboons) for individuals on the lower side of the social dominance hierarchy.\n\nSapolsky focuses on the effects of glucocorticoids on the human body, stating that such hormones may be useful to animals in the wild escaping their predators, (see \"Fight-or-flight response\") but the effects on humans, when secreted at high quantities or over long periods of time, are much less desirable. Sapolsky relates the history of endocrinology, how the field reacted at times of discovery, and how it has changed through the years. While most of the book focuses on the biological machinery of the body, the last chapter of the book focuses on self-help.\n\n\"Why Zebras Don't Get Ulcers\" explains how social phenomena such as child abuse and the chronic stress of poverty affect biological stress, leading to increased risk of disease and disability.\n\n\n"}
