{"id": "202610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=202610", "title": "32nd century BC", "text": "32nd century BC\n\nThe 32nd century BC was a century which lasted from the year 3200 BC to 3101 BC.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "3234338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3234338", "title": "A Day in the Life of Ranger Smith", "text": "A Day in the Life of Ranger Smith\n\nA Day in the Life of Ranger Smith is a stand-alone special parody of the Hanna-Barbera cartoon series, \"The Yogi Bear Show\", which revolves around Ranger Smith. \"A Day in the Life of Ranger Smith\" was made by \"The Ren & Stimpy Show\" creator John Kricfalusi and his company Spümcø. \" A Day in the Life of Ranger Smith\" originally aired on Cartoon Network on September 24, 1999, along with \"Boo Boo Runs Wild\", a similar Yogi Bear-themed stand alone special.\n\nSince its original debut in 1999, \"A Day in the Life of Ranger Smith\" has aired on Cartoon Network's late night programming block, Adult Swim.\n\nThis short marked the last time Greg Burson voiced Yogi, as he was arrested five years after its release and subsequently died in 2008. It is dedicated to William Hanna and Joseph Barbera.\n\nRanger Smith awakes to a depressing morning where he declares his hate of the job. He then walks outside and wakes the sun by kicking on a mountain in the foreground. Then he proceeds to walk through the forest, changing appearances every time he passes a tree. He shows more enjoyment to the job as he is walking through the forest. He then finds a squirrel holding acorns. Ranger Smith demands to see a license for them. When the squirrel doesn't produce one Ranger Smith confiscates the nuts. The squirrel's children then poke their heads from the door. Ranger Smith notices this and demands to see a marriage license. When the squirrel can't produce one Ranger Smith decides to write a ticket but to let him off \"easy\" this time. He demands that the squirrel store pickles for the winter, and he may only keep one child. The scene then changes to Yogi Bear and Boo Boo Bear's cave. The two bears are showering while Ranger Smith watches them taking notes. The scene suddenly goes to night with Ranger Smith on his hands and knees holding a flash light to his face. He then says that it is \"Owl Feeding Time\" and that what he has to do is not for civilian eyes. The screen cuts to black and strange sound effects are played. When the scene cuts back Ranger Smith is now standing; he looks as if he were beaten. He then proceeds to go back to his cabin. He gets back in bed once again complaining about his job and life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17811278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17811278", "title": "Afro-Jamaican", "text": "Afro-Jamaican\n\nAfro-Jamaicans are Jamaicans of full or partial Black African descent. The first Africans that were brought came in 1513 from the Iberian Peninsula. They were servants, cowboys, herders of cattle, pigs and horses, as well as hunters. When the English captured Jamaica in 1655, many of them fought with the Spanish, who gave them their freedom, and then fled to the mountains, resisting the British for many years to maintain their freedom, becoming known as Maroons. The British brought with them mostly Akan slaves, some of which ran away and joined with Maroons and even took over as leaders.\n\nAfricans were captured in wars, as retribution for crimes committed or by abduction and marched to the coast in \"coffles\" with their necks yoked to each other.\nThe most common means of enslaving an African was through abduction. They were placed in trading posts or forts to await the horrifying six- to twelve-week Middle Passage voyage between Africa and the Americas during which they were chained together, underfed, kept in the ship's hold in the thousands [packed more like sardines than humans. Those who survived were fattened up and oiled to look healthy prior to being auctioned in public squares to the highest bidders.\n\nBased on the phoenix ship records, enslaved Africans mostly came from the Akan people (Twi [Ashanti Akyem, etc.], Fante and Bono) followed by Igbo, Yoruba, Kongo, Fon people and Ibibio people. Akan (then called \"Coromantee\") culture was the dominant African culture in Jamaica.\n\nOriginally in earlier British colonization, however the island before the 1750s was in fact mainly Akan imported. However, between 1663 and 1700, only six per cent of slave ships to Jamaica listed their origin as the Gold Coast, while between 1700 and 1720 that figure went up to 27 per cent. The number of Akan slaves arriving in Jamaica from Kormantin ports only increased in the early eighteenth century. But due to frequent rebellions from the then known \"Coromantee\" that often joined the slave rebellion group known as the Jamaican Maroons, other groups were sent to Jamaica. The Akan population was still maintained because they were the preference of British planters in Jamaica because they were \"better workers\", according to these Planters. According to the Slave Voyages Archives, though the Igbo had the highest importation numbers, they were only imported to Montego Bay and St. Ann's bay ports, while the Gold Coast (mainly Akan) were more dispersed across the island and were a majority imported to 7 of 14 of the island's ports(each parish has one port).\n\nField slaves fetched £25–£75 while skilled slaves such as carpenters fetched prices as high as £300. The majority of the house slaves were mulattoes. On reaching the plantation, the slaves underwent a \"seasoning\" process in which they were placed with an experienced slave who taught them the ways of the estate. Although the initial slave traders were the Portuguese and the Dutch, between 1750 and 1807 (the year in which the British Empire abolished the slave trade), Britain \"dominated the buying and selling of slaves to the Americas\". They were also Brown/Mulatto or mixed race people at the time who had more privileges than the Blacks and usually held higher paying jobs and occupations. Shipbuilding flourished and manufacturing expanded: the \"process of industrialization in England from the second quarter of the eighteenth century as to an important extent a response to colonial demands for rails, axes, buckets, coaches, clocks, saddles...and a thousand other things\"\n\nThe Atlantic Slave Trade began in the 15th century when the Portuguese took hold of land near Gibraltar and soon encountered Africans, whom they quickly took as prisoners. By mid-century, the first public sale of these prisoners was held. By 1455 Portugal was importing close to 800 enslaved Africans a year. Sugar cultivation began in the Azores islands, and as the demand for sugar grew, so did the demand for slaves to work the fields of sugar cane. By the 16th century, other countries wanted a piece of this action and the competition for the sugar and enslavement trades began.\n\nBy 1700 Jamaica was awash with sugar plantations and Jamaica's population consisted of 7,000 English to 40,000 enslaved Africans. The sugar industry grew quickly in Jamaica—in 1672 there were 70 plantations producing 772 tonnes of sugar per annum—growing in the 1770s to over 680 plantations. By 1800, it was 21,000 English to 300,000 enslaved Africans. In 1820 there were 5,349 properties in Jamaica of which 1,189 contained over 100 enslaved Africans. Each estate was its own small world, complete with an entire labour force of field workers and skilled artisans, a hospital, water supply, cattle, mules and horses as well as its own fuel source. Each plantation fuelled the wheels of British mercantilism. Sugar, molasses and rum were exported to England for sale and ships were financed to return to Africa and collect more slaves in exchange for trinkets and transport them to the West Indies as a labour source. This became known as the Triangular Trade. Money was not left in England's colonies, the financing came from Mother England, and to Mother England the profits returned.\n\nA typical sugar estate was . This included a Great House where the owner or overseer and the domestic enslaved Africans lived, and nearby accommodation for the bookkeeper, distiller, mason, carpenter, blacksmith, cooper and wheelwright. With the exception of the bookkeeper, by the middle of the eighteenth century, skilled enslaved Africans had replaced white indentured servants in these posts. The field enslavement' quarters were usually about a half mile away, closer to the industrial sugar mill, distillery and the boiling and curing houses, as well as the blacksmiths' and carpenters' sheds and thrash houses. In addition, there was a poultry pen and a cattle yard along with a hospital for Africans. Some estates, if large enough, had accommodation for an estate doctor. Estates had estate gardens and the Africans had their own kitchen gardens as well as polnicks provision grounds found in the hills, which were required by law from as early as 1678. During enslavement, however, the enslaved Africans kept pigs and poultry and grew mangoes, plantain, ackee, okra, yam and other ground provisions. The cultivation of these lands took on greater proportions as plantations were abandoned when the island faced increasing competition from Brazil, Cuba and beet sugar, a loss in labour after emancipation in the 1830s as well as the loss of protective trade duties after the passage of the 1846 Sugar Equalization Act in England.\n\nThe workforce on each plantation was divided into gangs determined by age and fitness. On average most estates had three main field gangs. The first was made up of the strongest and most able men and women. The second, of those no longer able to serve in the first, and the third, of older enslaved Africans and older children. Some estates had four gangs, depending on the number of children living on the estate. Children started working as young as 3 or 4 years old.\n\nTo a large extent, Jamaican customs and culture were fashioned by sugar. According to John Hearne (1965), for two hundred years sugar was the only reason behind Jamaica's existence as a centre for human habitation. For centuries, sugar was Jamaica's most important crop. Jamaica was once considered the \"jewel\" in Britain's crown. In 1805, the island's peak of sugar production, it produced 101,600 tonnes of sugar. It was the world's leading individual sugar producer.\n\nThe cultivation of sugar was intricately intertwined with the system of African enslavement. This connection has set the course of the nation's demographics since the 18th century when enslaved Africans vastly outnumbered any other population group. The descendants of the enslaved Africans comprise the majority of Jamaica's population. They have influenced every sphere of Jamaican life and their contributions are immeasurable.\n\nAs Jamaican enslaved peoples came from West Africa, many of their customs survived based on memory and myths. They encompassed the life cycle, i.e. a newborn was not regarded as being of this world until nine days had passed and burial often involved libations at the graveside, and the belief that the dead body's spirit would not be at rest for some 42 days(a derivative of the Ashanti beliefs like Adae Kese Festival). They included forms of religion in which healing was considered an act of faith completed by obeahmen and communication with the spirits involved possession often induced by dancing and drumming. African-based religions include Myal and Revival and later Kumina from Congolese immigrants. Many involved recreational, ceremonial and functional use of music and dance. \"Slaves,\" Brathwaite explains, \"danced and sang at work, at play, at worship, from fear, from sorrow from joy\". They recreated African musical instruments from materials found in Jamaica (calabash, conch, bamboo, etc.) and featured improvisation in song and dance. All of these customs and many more such as the Christmas street parades of Jonkonnu, were misunderstood and undervalued by Europeans with the exception of the political use of drumming to send coded messages from plantation to plantation. Drumming of any kind was therefore often banned. Jamaican music today has emerged from the traditional musical forms of work songs sung by slaves, the ceremonial music used in religious services and the social and recreational music played on holidays and during leisure time. The cramped housing space provided to the enslaved Africans, which limited their dwellings (often made of wattle and daub) to one window and one door, meant that very little other than sleeping took place indoors. Life, as in Africa, was lived communally, outside. Similarly language, as in Africa, is considered powerful, particularly naming. Brathwaite (1971) gives an example of a woman whose child falls ill and wants her name to be changed, believing that this would allow her to be cured. Language is certainly an area where African retention is strongest. Jamaicans today move between Patois a creolised English and standard English. Jamaican patois was born from the intermixing of African slaves and English, Irish, Welsh, Scottish sailors, enslaved Africans, servants, soldiers and merchants. The enslaved African spoke many dialects, and given the need for a common tongue, Jamaican patois was born. It has been in use since the end of the 17th century by Jamaicans of all ethnicities and has been added to by the, Chinese, Hakka, Indians, Lebanese, Germans, and French who also settled on the island. Some words also indicate Spanish and Taino presence in Jamaican history. Many of these traditions survive to this day, testament to the strength of West African culture despite the process of creolisation (the intermingling of peoples adjusting to a new environment) it encountered.\n\nKumfu (from the word \"Akom\" the name of the Akan spiritual system) was documented as \"Myal\" and originally only found in books, while the term Kumfu is still used by Jamaican Maroons. The priest of Kumfu was called a \"Kumfu-man\". In 18th-century Jamaica, only Akan gods were worshipped by Akan as well as by other enslaved Africans. The Akan god of creation, Nyankopong was given praise but not worshipped directly. They poured libation to Asase Ya, the goddess of the earth. But nowadays they are only observed by the Maroons who preserved a lot of the culture of 1700's Jamaica.\n\n\"Myal\" or Kumfu evolved into Revival, a syncretic Christian sect. Kumfu followers gravitated to the American Revival of 1800 Seventh Day Adventist movement because it observed Saturday as god's day of rest. This was a shared aboriginal belief of the Akan people as this too was the day that the Akan god, Nyame, rested after creating the earth. Jamaicans that were aware of their Ashanti past while wanting to keep hidden, mixed their Kumfu spirituality with the American Adventists to create Jamaican Revival in 1860. Revival has two sects: \"60 order\" (or Zion Revival, the order of the heavens) and \"61 order\" (or Pocomania, the order of the earth). 60 order worships God and spirits of air or the heavens on a Saturday and considers itself to be the more 'clean' sect. 61 order more deals with spirits of the earth. This division of Kumfu clearly shows the dichotomy of Nyame and Asase Yaa's relationship, Nyame representing \"air\" and has his 60 order'; \"Asase Yaa\" having her 61 order of the \"earth\". Also the Ashanti funerary/war colours: red and black have the same meaning in Revival of \"vengeance\". Other Ashanti elements include the use of swords and rings as means to guard the spirit from spiritual attack. The Asantehene like the Mother Woman of Revival, has special two swords used to protect himself from witchcraft called an Akrafena or \"soul sword\" and a Bosomfena or \"spirit sword\" \n\nA festival was dedicated to the heroism of the Akan king 'John Canoe' an Ahanta from Axim, Ghana in 1708. See John Canoe section.\n\nJamaican Patois, known locally as Patwa, is an English–African creole language spoken primarily in Jamaica and the Jamaican diaspora. It is not to be confused with Jamaican English nor with the Rastafarian use of English. The language developed in the 17th century, when enslaved peoples from West and Central Africa blended their dialect and terms with the learned vernacular and dialectal forms of English spoken: British Englishes (including significant exposure to Scottish English) and Hiberno English. Jamaican Patwa is a \"post-creole speech continuum\" (a \"linguistic continuum\") meaning that the variety of the language closest to the lexifier language (the acrolect) cannot be distinguished systematically from intermediate varieties (collectively referred to as the mesolect) nor even from the most divergent rural varieties (collectively referred to as the basilect). Jamaicans themselves usually refer to their use of English as patwa, a term without a precise linguistic definition.\n\nJamaican Patois contains many loanwords of African origin, a majority of those etymologically from Gold Coast region (particularly of the Asante-Twi dialect of the Akan language of Ghana).\n\nMost Jamaican proverbs are of Asante people, while some included other African proverbs.\n\nA DNA test study submitted to BMC Medicine in 2012 states that \"...despite the historical evidence that an overwhelming majority of slaves were sent from the Bight of Biafra and West-central Africa near the end of the British slave trade, the mtDNA haplogroup profile of modern Jamaicans show a greater affinity with groups found in the present day Gold Coast region Ghana...this is because Africans arriving from the Gold Coast may have thus found the acclimatization and acculturation process less stressful because of cultural and linguistic commonalities, leading ultimately to a greater chance of survivorship and a greater number of progeny.\n\nMore detailed results stated: \"Using haplogroup distributions to calculate parental population contribution, the largest admixture coefficient was associated with the Gold Coast (all of which were Ashanti based on the culture) (0.477 ± 0.12 or 59.7% of the Jamaican population with a 2.7 chance of Pygmy and Sahelian mixture), suggesting that the people from this region may have been consistently prolific throughout the slave era on Jamaica. The diminutive admixture coefficients associated with the Bight of Biafra and West-central Africa (0.064 ± 0.05 and 0.089 ± 0.05, respectively) is striking considering the massive influx of individuals from these areas in the waning years of the British Slave trade. When excluding the pygmy groups, the contribution from the Bight of Biafra and West-central rise to their highest levels (0.095 ± 0.08 and 0.109 ± 0.06, respectively), though still far from a major contribution. When admixture coefficients were calculated by assessing shared haplotypes, the Gold Coastalso had the largest contribution, though much less striking at 0.196, with a 95% confidence interval of 0.189 to 0.203. When haplotypes are allowed to differ by one base pair, the Jamaican matriline shows the greatest affinity with the Bight of Benin, though both Bight of Biafra and West-central Africa remain underrepresented. The results of the admixture analysis suggest the mtDNA haplogroup profile distribution of Jamaica more closely resembles that of aggregated populations from the modern day Gold Coast region despite an increasing influx of individuals from both the Bight of Biafra and West-central Africa during the final years of trading enslaved Africans.\n\nResults also stated that black Jamaicans(that make up over 90% of the population) on an average have 97.5% of west African MtDNA and very little European or Asian ancestry could be found. Both ethnic and racial genetic results are based on a low sample of 390 Jamaican persons and limited regional representation within Jamaica.\n\nPub Med results were also issued in the same year (2012): \"Our results reveal that the studied population of Jamaica exhibit a predominantly South-Saharan paternal component, with haplogroups A1b-V152, A3-M32, B2-M182, E1a-M33, E1b1a-M2, E2b-M98, and R1b2-V88 comprising 66.7% of the Jamaican paternal gene pool. Yet, European derived chromosomes (i.e., haplogroups G2a*-P15, I-M258, R1b1b-M269, and T-M184) were detected at commensurate levels in Jamaica (18.9%), whereas Y-haplogroups indicative of Chinese [O-M175 (3.8%)] and Indian [H-M69 (0.6%) and L-M20 (0.6%)] ancestry were restricted to Jamaica. African paternal DNA 66.7%\nEuropean paternal DNA 18.9%\nChinese paternal DNA 3.8%\nIndian paternal DNA 1.2%\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13020896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13020896", "title": "Altıntepe", "text": "Altıntepe\n\nAltıntepe (Turkish for \"golden hill\") is an Urartian fortress and temple site dating from the 9th-7th century BCE. It is located on a small hill overlooking the Euphrates River in the Üzümlü district of Erzincan Province, Turkey.\n\nAltıntepe is located at the 12th kilometre on the highway from Erzincan to Erzurum . The site was discovered in 1938 during the construction of a nearby railway line. The remains are situated on a 60 m-high volcanic hill. During excavations undertaken between 1959-1968 and led by Professor Dr. Tahsin Özgüç, a fortified settlement from the Urartian period was found. In the excavated area a temple or palace, a great hall, a warehouse, city walls, various rooms, and three subterranean chamber tombs on the south side of the hill were found. After a long gap, excavations were restarted in 2003 by the decision of the Council of Ministers, under the leadership of Professor Dr. Mehmet Karaosmanoğlu.\n\nThe hill was a significant center for the Byzantine Empire and has a church with three naves and mosaic floors. The church was built on a natural terrace and has a rectangle floor plan. The colorful mosaic floors with various geometric shapes and figures of plants and animals are unique to the region.\n\n"}
{"id": "36844970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36844970", "title": "An account of the lives and works of the most eminent Spanish painters, sculptors and architects", "text": "An account of the lives and works of the most eminent Spanish painters, sculptors and architects\n\nAn account of the lives and works of the most eminent Spanish painters, sculptors and architects is a book written by the Spanish painter Antonio Palomino and dedicated to the biographies of the most eminent artists who worked in Spain during the so-called Siglo de Oro, the golden age of Spanish art.\n\nIt was published for the first time in the original Spanish edition in 1724, entitled \"El parnaso español pintoresco y laureado\" and appearing as the third and last volume of Palomino's \"El museo pictorico y escala optica\", featuring also biographies of Italian artists who worked in Spain (Pietro Torrigiano, Tiziano, Sofonisba Anguissola, Federico Zuccari, Luca Giordano and many others) as well as Flemish artists (Antonio Moro, Pieter Paul Rubens). The book includes the first biographies ever published of many Spanish artists, Diego Velázquez among others, and was translated and published in English, French and German during the 18th century; the English translation appeared in 1739.\n\nThe book has been described as \"the starting point for all students of Spanish painting\".\n\nNote: page numbers next to artists' names refer to the English edition of 1739 (see external links below).\n\n"}
{"id": "45495012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45495012", "title": "Attic funerary relief (NAMA 4464)", "text": "Attic funerary relief (NAMA 4464)\n\nAn Attic funerary relief, sometimes also known as the Mithridates funerary relief is displayed at the National Archaeological Museum of Athens (NAMA), with the inventory number 4464. Its date is uncertain.\n\nThe Pentelic marble relief consists of two plates and there must have been a third piece on the left hand side, containing at least the tail of the horse. The central figure of the relief is a horse moving to the right, with its head pulled upwards away from the right edge of the relief. A portion of the horses nose is missing, the only substantial damage to the piece. Its left foreleg is raised and bent, the right is stretched out and planted firmly in the ground. The hind legs reinforce the horse's position, the left hind leg is in very low relief, only barely extending out of the surface. On the horse's back is a panther pelt, which is attached around its front. At the front, to its left, stands a stable boy who reaches up to strike the horse with a whip, as the pained posture of the horse's head makes clear. The boy wears a \"chiton\". His hair is cut short, but the pattern of the locks indicates that he is an exotic foreigner. It is probably that he is an African slave, most likely from Ethiopia.\n\nArabs and Africans were depicted in Greek art from the fourth century BC. In addition to this example, the 2 metre high, 1.9 meter wide relief found in 1948 near the Larisa metro-station must date to near the end of the fourth century BC. Other datings assign the relief to the first century BC. If one takes the earlier dating it is assumed that the relief belonged to a large grave naiskos; supporters of the later dating often connect it with the funerary monument of King Mithridates VI of Pontus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29767790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29767790", "title": "Bara, Punjab", "text": "Bara, Punjab\n\nBara is a village in Rupnagar District in Punjab, India. The village has mainly two Jatt Sikh surnames Chakkal and Heer and lies on the Rupnagar-Morinda Road at the left bank of a seasonal monsoon rivulet called Budki Nadi, about four kilometers south-west of the city Ropar and northeast of Chandigarh on National Highway 205 (India) (NH-205). Bara is the site of significant archeological excavations connected with the Indus Valley Civilization. It has some evidence of being home to a culture (sometimes called Baran Culture) that was a pre-Harappan strand of the Indus Valley Civilization. Baran and Harappan cultures may have intertwined and coexisted in some places, such as Kotla Nihang Khan, also in modern-day Punjab.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24537733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24537733", "title": "Bilbao (Mesoamerican site)", "text": "Bilbao (Mesoamerican site)\n\nBilbao is a Mesoamerican archaeological site about from the modern town of Santa Lucía Cotzumalguapa in the Escuintla department of Guatemala. The site lies among sugar plantations on the Pacific coastal plain and its principal phase of occupation is dated to the Classic Period. Bilbao was a major centre belonging to the Cotzumalhuapa culture with its main occupation dating to the Late Classic (c. AD 600–800). Bilbao is the former name of the plantation on which the site lies and from which it has derived its name.\n\nBilbao lies of the outskirts of Santa Lucía Cotzumalguapa, situated approximately above mean sea level. The archaeological sites of Bilbao, El Baúl and El Castillo were all parts of the same urban centre that extended over about . This extended urban area is known as the Cotzumalhuapa Nuclear Zone by archaeologists and Bilbao lies in the southernmost part of this area. The urban growth of modern Santa Lucía Cotzumalguapa has expanded to the edge of the monumental architecture of the site.\n\nThe dominant geographical feature close to the Cotzumalhaupa Nuclear Zone is the Volcán de Fuego, one of the most active volcanoes in the world, its crater rising to an altitude of above mean sea level at only a distance of about from Bilbao itself. The activity of the volcano must have impacted upon the population of the site, which must regularly have suffered from falls of volcanic ash, affecting agriculture, transport routes and perishable dwellings.\n\nBilbao was occupied since the Preclassic and was the most important site dating to the Preclassic within what became in later periods the Cotzumalhuapa Nuclear Zone.\n\nA substantial quantity of Middle Classic and Late Classic ceramics were found in mixed deposits at Bilbao.\n\nAlthough Postclassic remains are found close to the surface in various parts of the Cotzumalhuapa Nuclear Zone, Bilbao has a residential compound that is the only major structure dating to this period within the Zone.\n\nThe land containing the archaeological remains was cleared in 1860 by Pedro de Anda, a local civic official, to establish a coffee plantation by the name of Finca Peor es Nada. In 1890 Finca Bilbao was formed from the merging of Finca Peor es Nada with another plot of land. The plantation was renamed to Finca Las Ilusiones in 1957.\n\nAustrian physician Simeon Habel drew some of the sculptures at Bilbao in 1863, his drawings were published by the Smithsonian Institution in 1878. Adolph Bastian of the Royal Museum in Berlin visited the site in 1876 and entered into a contract with Pedro de Anda to explore the remains. At this time Carl H. Berendt was hired to move the finest monuments to the Royal Museum in 1877. The monuments were shipped from Puerto San José on the Pacific coast, where one of the monuments was lost overboard. The rest arrived in Berlin in 1883 and totalled 31 in all, including some well-preserved stelae depicting ballplayers. In 1884 engineer Albert Napp mapped the site, his original map being lost for more than a century before being found in 1994 in Berlin.\n\nThe architectural remains consist of earth mounds covered by sugarcane plantations. The sculptural style of the site differs from that of the Classic Maya and may represent the vanguard of the Nahua-speaking Pipil who migrated from central Mexico and settled the Pacific coastal plain of Guatemala and El Salvador in the Postclassic Period. The Mexican influence evident at Bilbao may not have arrived directly but could instead have been transmitted via a neighbouring polity such as groups from the Tiquisate or La Gomera areas of the Guatemalan Pacific coastal region.\n\nWhen first discovered the site was covered in forest, this was cleared for coffee plantations that have since been replaced with sugarcane.\n\nArchaeological investigations were carried out by Lee A. Parsons and S. F. de Borhegyi. Parsons has suggested that Bilbao was a colony founded during the Middle Classic (c. 400–550) by the distant metropolis of Teotihuacan in the Valley of Mexico, with El Tajín as an intermediary, and that it became independent between AD 550 and 700. However, archaeologist Marion Popenoe de Hatch has since redated the site to the Late Classic period. Bilbao's architecture is buried under a thick layer of volcanic soil to an extent that only the largest structures can be distinguished as mounds.\n\nThe core of Bilbao is formed by a series of platforms that descend gradually to the south. These platforms do not have any surviving evidence of boundary walls and appear to have been open and accessible. The monumental architecture of Bilbao may have served as an elite residential compound and a place of worship.\n\nThe Monument Plaza contained the majority of the site's sculpture, including Monuments 1 through to 8, a group of stelae now in Berlin. The Plaza was externally accessible via ramps and stairways.\n\nGroup A lies immediately to the west of the Monument Plaza and contains 6 structures.\n\nGroup B is immediately to the north of Group A and contains 4 structures.\n\nGroup C is immediately north of Group B and possesses 3 structures.\n\nGroup D is immediately north of Group C and contains 4 structures.\n\nGroups A to D are all bordered on the east side by the Canilla River.\n\nBilbao is connected to other sites in the Cotzumalhuapa Nuclear Zone by a system of stone-paved avenues, reinforcing the interpretation of the Zone as an articulated urban centre. There are three major causeways:\n\nThe Gavarrete Causeway is long and links Bilbao with El Baúl. It was the main avenue of the city and varied between wide. The causeway is named after Guatemalan historian Juan Gavarrete.\n\nThe Berendt Causeway is an extension of the Gavarrete Causeway that links Bilbao with El Castillo, it is long.\n\nThe Habel Causeway is long and links El Castillo with Golón, only from Bilbao itself.\n\n58 monuments were listed by Parsons at Bilbao, but only 3 remain \"in situ\" in Bilbao's Monument Plaza. Even before the extraction of the majority of the sculptures in the 19th century, many had already been damaged by locals who quarried them as a source of construction material. The remaining boulder sculptures of Bilbao lie among the earth mounds of the site's ceremonial centre; they include two sculptures of the central Mexican deity Tlaloc carved into a boulder by a stream. A significant amount of the architecture and relief sculpture at the site features ballgame imagery. Ballgame reliefs at Bilbao feature blossoming and fruiting plants symbolic of agricultural fertility. Stelae at Bilbao depict ballplayers with disembodied heads and various sculptures depict dismembered body parts. Sculptures of dismembered limbs are carved in the round and show the bones protruding.\n\nWell-preserved examples of Late Preclassic potbelly sculptures have been found at Bilbao. These are boulders carved to represent obese human figures and are found at many sites along the Pacific coast.\n\nMonument 1 dates to the Classic Period. It depicts a ballplayer wielding a knife in one hand and a severed head in the other. This figure stands on a dismembered human torso lacking limbs and head. Around the main figure are four smaller figures, also carrying severed heads. It was originally found in the Monument Plaza but was removed to the Ethnological Museum of Berlin.\n\nMonument 2 was located in the Monument Plaza and was removed to the Ethnological Museum of Berlin.\nMonument 3 depicts a larger ballplayer figure and a smaller death god, both of whom are wearing ballgame yokes, standing in front of a temple. The ballplayer is offering a human heart to the sun. The monument was found in the Monument Plaza but was removed to the Ethnological Museum of Berlin.\n\nMonument 4 depicts a shaman whose tongue is in the form of a knife. It was located in the Monument Plaza and was removed to the Ethnological Museum of Berlin.\n\nMonument 5, Monument 6, Monument 7 and Monument 8 were all from the Monument Plaza and were removed to the Ethnological Museum of Berlin.\n\nMonument 16 is one of the few sculptures to remain at the site, being located in a sugarcane field.\n\nMonument 17 was lost overboard when it was being loaded onto a ship for transport to Berlin. The sculpture was one of a pair and depicted a vulture devouring a human torso. Only the tip of one wing survived and is stored in the museum warehouse.\n\nMonument 18 is a large sculptured stela that is roughly rectangular in shape and has a raised border. It depicts three standing figures. The left-most figure faces the other two on its right. Between the left figure and the central figure is a rectangular object sprouting crab claws at the bottom. There is a circle containing the head of a monkey at the top of the sculpture. Monument 18 has been dated to the Classic period. Monument 18 was located on the west side of Mound 4 of Group B.\n\nMonument 19 depicts three figures, the principal individual wears an elaborate headdress with a Xiuhcoatl (\"turquoise/fire serpent\") plume. He appears to be offering aid to a less fortunate person.\nMonument 21 is a basalt boulder in a sugarcane field. The boulder has an artificially flattened upper surface bearing a bas-relief sculpture. The carved face has a 35° slope and measures . The sculpture depicts three main figures. The central figure is the largest and faces towards a second figure seated on a throne. The third figure is behind the central figure, it is smaller and holds a hand puppet. The scene is filled out with twisting vines that sprout cocoa pods bearing human faces. Other details of the monument include birds, snakes and a butterfly with a human head. Monument 21 has been dated to the Classic period. Monument 21 is located east of Mound 2, in the centre of Group B. The decoration on the skirt of one of the figures may be the face of the central Mexican deity Xipe Totec.\n\nMonument 24 was moved to the Museo Nacional de Arqueología y Etnología in Guatemala City.\n\nMonument 46 is a potbelly sculpture.\n\nMonument 47 is a potbelly sculpture.\n\nMonument 58 is a potbelly sculpture. When it was excavated by Parsons it was found lying on its side with its head resting upon the lowest step of a stairway with Monument 59 (a throne or altar) upside down on top of it. The potbelly sculpture may originally have sat upon the throne. Alternatively, it may have been set at the base of the stairway with the throne at the top.\n\nMonument 59 is a stone altar or throne with four legs. It was found resting inverted on top of Monument 58, a potbelly sculpture, at the bottom of a stairway. It may originally have supported this potbelly monument.\n\nGolón is an important area within the Cotzumalhuapa Nuclear Zone, located from Bilbao and connected to the same system of paved causeways. Golón is an area that contains further monumental sculpture.\n\n"}
{"id": "17143465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17143465", "title": "Breton Liberty", "text": "Breton Liberty\n\nBreton Liberty (Breton: \"Frankiz Breizh\", French: \"Liberté Bretagne\") was a leftist national liberation movement in Brittany, France. It split off from the Breton Democratic Union, though the two parties' political stances were similar. Breton Liberty frequently worked within the Régions et Peuples Solidaires federation. Its activities were limited to the city of Brest (where it held a vice-mayor seat) and surrounding region of Léon and during its last years it did not have more than a dozen active member. The party was dissolved in 2007, and some of its members joined the Breton Democratic Union.\n"}
{"id": "51686741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51686741", "title": "Brudevælte Lurs", "text": "Brudevælte Lurs\n\nThe Brudevælte Lurs, found in a bog north of Lynge on the Danish island of Zealand, are six lurs, which are so well preserved that they can still be played.\n\nThe three pairs of lurs were found by a farmer in 1797 in a turf grave in a bog which has since been drained. It was the first hoard of Lurs ever discovered, and also the largest and most important.\n\nThe length of the Lurs ranges between 1.5 and 2.2 metres. They have different tunes from one another and were made around 800-700 BC. The Danish archaeologist Christian Jürgensen Thomsen (1788-1865) was the first to refer to the bronze instruments with the Old Norse word \"luðr\", before that they were referred to as \"horns\".\n\nMost lurs are found as hoards. That they had great cultural significance is indicated by hoards with a cultic context and by the frequent depiction of Lur-players on Scandinavian Bronze Age rock art. In these depictions the lur-players are usually depicted as pairs and, as a rule, lurs are found in pairs. These pairs are always tuned to the same tone. The tone sequence is based on just intonation; a good player can produce a wide tonal range. The sound of the lurs is powerful and piercing, similar to the trombone.\n\nThe lurs consist of an S-shaped pipe made of several pieces that have been welded together, a sound-board at the upper end and a mouthpiece at the lower end. The lurs were cast from bronze with a level of craftsmanship so high that it is still not entirely clear to modern scholars how they achieved such perfection with the quality of casting technology available to them.\n\nFive of the Brudevælte lurs are found in the National Museum of Denmark in Copenhagen. The sixth was given to the Russian Tsar Nicholas I in 1845.\n\n"}
{"id": "362102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362102", "title": "Crossing the floor", "text": "Crossing the floor\n\nIn politics, crossing the floor is when a politician changes their allegiance or votes against their party in a Westminster system parliament. Crossing the floor may be voting against the approved party lines, or changing to another party after being elected while a member of a first party. While these practices are legally permissible, crossing the floor can lead to controversy and media attention. As well, voting against party lines may lead to consequences such as losing a position (e.g., as minister or a portfolio critic) or being ejected from the party caucus. Maldives and Bangladesh have laws which removes the member from parliament due to floor-crossing.\n\nThe term originates from the British House of Commons, which is configured with the Government and Opposition facing each other on rows of benches. In consequence, an MP who switches from the governing party to one in opposition (or vice versa) also changes which side of the chamber they sit on. A notable example of this is Winston Churchill, who crossed the floor from the Conservatives to the Liberals in 1904, before later crossing back in 1924.\n\nThe term has passed into general use in other Westminster parliamentary democracies (such as Canada, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa) even if many of these countries have semicircular or horseshoe-shaped debating chambers and mechanisms for voting without Members of Parliament leaving their seats. In most countries, it is most often used to describe members of the government party or parties who defect and vote with the opposition against some piece of government-sponsored legislation, but that usage is not widespread in Canada, where the term's usage is restricted to the original definition.\n\nMost political parties let their members have a free vote on some matters of personal conscience.\n\nIn Australia, one of the major parties (the Australian Labor Party) requires its members to pledge their support for the collective decisions of the Caucus, which theoretically prohibits them from crossing the floor; however, in practice, some Labor members disregard this pledge despite the disciplinary action which may result. Among other parties, crossing the floor is rare although former Senator Barnaby Joyce of the National Party of Australia crossed the floor 19 times under the Howard coalition government. Nonetheless, the record for crossing the floor in the Australian Parliament goes to Tasmanian Senator Sir Reg Wright, who voted against his own party (the Liberal Party of Australia) on 150 occasions.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Canada, and other countries, the term is also used to describe leaving one's party entirely and joining another party, such as leaving an opposition party to support the government (or vice versa), or even leaving one opposition party to join another. In both Canada and the United Kingdom, the term carries only this meaning and is not used for a simple vote against the party line on a bill.\n\nIn April 2006, the premier of Manitoba, Canada, Gary Doer of the New Democratic Party of Manitoba, proposed a ban on crossing the floor of the Manitoba legislature in response to \"the concern some voters have expressed over the high-profile defections of three federal MPs from their parties in just over two years.\" The resulting legislation, which amended the provincial \"Legislative Assembly Act\", mandated that Members of the Legislature who quit their political party must serve out the remainder of their term as independents.\n\nAn extraordinary example occurred in Alberta, Canada in December 2014 when Danielle Smith, the leader of the official opposition Wildrose Party, and eight of her MLAs crossed the floor together to join the governing Progressive Conservative Association of Alberta.\n"}
{"id": "681729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=681729", "title": "Cruciform passage grave", "text": "Cruciform passage grave\n\nCruciform passage graves describe a complex example of prehistoric passage grave found in Ireland, west Wales and Orkney and built during the later Neolithic, from around 3500 BC and later.\n\nThey are distinguished by a long passage leading to a central chamber with a corbelled roof. From this, burial chambers extend in three directions, giving the overall impression in plan of a cross shape layout. Some examples have further sub-chambers leading off the three original chambers. The network of chambers is covered by a cairn and revetted with a kerb.\n\nA common trait is megalithic art carved into the stones of the chambers' walls and roofs. Abstract designs were favoured, especially spirals and zig-zags.\n\nExamples are Newgrange in Ireland, Maeshowe in Orkney and Barclodiad y Gawres in Anglesey.\n"}
{"id": "7767632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7767632", "title": "Eric Morris (actor)", "text": "Eric Morris (actor)\n\nEric Morris (born November 19, 1931) is an American acting teacher and actor who founded his own theory of acting based on the works of Lee Strasberg and Martin Landau. Morris lives with his wife in Los Angeles and teaches actors the Eric Morris System of Acting.\n\nHis parents were Russian Immigrants; his father emigrated from Russia to the United States in 1912. Eric lived with his family in various apartments in a neighborhood inhabited chiefly by Jewish immigrants from Russia or Poland until, in seventh grade, when his father bought a house.\n\nHe spent some years as a Boy Scout, attaining the rank of Star Scout. He was a soda jerk at Walgreens, and at age fourteen spent some Saturdays doing stand-up comedy at a mafia nightclub. After a false start and a detour in therapy, Morris returned to Wright Junior College in 1950 and took up drama. He enrolled at Northwestern University School of Speech in 1952, as a junior theater major. Alvina Krause taught him acting, though he reports she did not like him; he got a \"C\" in the class. In 1978 he bought a house at Lake Arrowhead, fulfilling a wish he had made as a ten-year-old in 1941.\n\nHaving published over six books in his theory, Morris claims that his System is derived partly from Lee Strasberg's Method Acting. However, Strasberg's Method focuses too much on craft, according to Morris, and not enough on the actor's instrument. Facing struggle in finding truth, he contemplated his theory while heading the Directors Unit at the Actor's Studio in Los Angeles. Morris' method recognizes the fact that actors have emotional blocks, tension, insecurities and other preventions to achieving a fundamental state of being, and works to clear these blocks, rendering the actor truly organic. In this sense, Morris stresses that acting is essentially living and being.\n\nThere are seven major obligations to material, according to Eric: 1) Time and Place, 2) Relationship, 3) Emotional Obligation, 4) Character Obligation, 5) Historic Obligation, 6) Thematic Obligation, 7) Subtextual Obligation. After recognizing these 7 obligations, there are the choices the actor utilizes to render these emotions, and finally the approach to which the actors use these choices.\n\nThe Eric Morris System has received praise from such actors as Jack Nicholson and Johnny Depp.\n\nMorris has been acting since 1949. He is an original member of the Screen Actors Guild since 1954. He has worked in over 100 equity plays on stages across the US, including such stages as the Globe Theater and Chicago Rep. Morris has also worked in several television shows, including \"Lawman\", \"Days of Our Lives\", \"Hogan's Heroes\", \"The New Phil Silvers Show\" and \"Fame\". Furthermore, Morris has worked in over 25 major motion pictures, including \"Pork Chop Hill\", \"Battle Beyond the Stars\" and \"Mirage.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40062477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40062477", "title": "Explorers Program at Newark Museum", "text": "Explorers Program at Newark Museum\n\nThe Newark Museum Explorers Program is a year-round work-based, college-preparatory, and mentoring program that supports Newark high school students in their exploration of the sciences and humanities, and pursuit of a college education. The program is run from the Newark Museum in Newark, New Jersey, United States.\n\nIn 1995, the Science Explorer’s Program was the recipient of a start-up grant under the YouthAlive! Project, a national initiative, funded by the DeWitt Wallace Readers Digest Fund in partnership with the Association of Science-Technology Centers (ASTC). The initiative called for the development of programs in museums that could provide positive work and learning opportunities for young people.\n\nThe Newark Museum, in keeping with its long history of actively addressing the needs of its community, designed such a program. Through the years, the Explorers’ program has evolved into a successful college and job preparedness program that provides invaluable education, employment, and mentoring opportunities to urban youth.\n\nThe Newark Museum Explorers Program is also a recipient of a grant provided by the Rivendell Foundation.\n\nExplorers meet regularly for workshops, meetings and training sessions prior to each festival. Workshops offered in the past includes public speaking workshops, financial literacy workshops, glass art workshops, etiquette workshops, animation workshops, mural painting, soap and candle making workshops.\n\nMeetings, workshops scheduled by program coordinator and field trips supersedes internship duties. If a meeting, field trip or workshop conflicts with Explorer’s internship schedule, it is the Explorer’s responsibility to inform their supervisor of the existing conflict in schedule.\n\nExplorers are expected to participate in all meetings, workshops and field trips throughout their participation in the program. Attendance and participation in these events are vital parts of each student’s experience and their continuation to participate in the Program.\n\nTo equip students with employable skills, students will have the opportunity to work in different departments at the Newark Museum and other partnering organizations during their internships as well as varying museum activities, events and festivals.\n\nExplorers are assigned mentors who supervise them through the acquisition of employable skills in different departments, events and festivals such as:\n\nStudents have the opportunity to work in different departments as well as varying museum activities, festivals and events in order to gain employable skills.\n\n\"The Explorers Program is a job preparedness program. Therefore, students are not compensated for participation in workshops, trainings and field trips.\"\n\nExplorers are engaged in outdoor education through several field trips. In the past, Explorers have taken trips to The Bronx Zoo, New York Aquarium, CSI: The Experience, Bodies Exhibit, Mural Tour of Philadelphia, Metropolitan Museum of Arts, World Series of Birding, Osprey Banding in Maryland, American Museum of Natural History and the Wax Museum. Explorers have also visited colleges such as Yale, Columbia University, Montclair University, Pennsylvania State University, New York University and The College of New Jersey.\n\nAt the end of each year, graduating classes attend a 3-day senior trip. In the past, the graduating Explorers have visited Puerto Rico, 1000 Acres Ranch Resort New York, Baltimore, Maryland, and Montreal, Canada.\n\nSince its inception in 1994, the Explorers Program has maintained a 90% retention rate. The Explorers Program gives students a stronger leadership background and opens up doors that these students never thought they could walk through. Students leave the program with new found courage, leadership, and skills they might never have attained without the help of this program.\n\nDuring the course of the year, each student attends an average of 80 meetings, a minimum of 10 additional training sessions and log in about 320 internship hours. The students’ participation and retention in the program indicates that they are enjoying the program.\n\nThe Explorers program maintained a 95% retention rate in 2012–13. The program has maintained a 100% high school graduation and college attendance for five years from 2008.\n\n225 students have graduated from the Explorers program since its conception in 1995, and have been attending an institution of higher education within 12 months of their high school graduation.\n\nThe alumni component is vital to track long term success of the program. This component will include annual luncheons open to all alumni. This luncheon aims to be aware of the Alumnus progress and create a mentoring opportunity for the program. This component will also host an alumni reunion every 2–3 years. The Explorers Peer Mentor will oversee Explorers Alumni affairs.\n\nSome alumni attend leading institutions of higher learning such as Harvard Law School, Princeton University, Columbia University, and Cornell University, where they studied:\n\nAmong professions represented by alumni include:\n\nThe program’s features include:\n\n\nOver a three-year period, the program nurtures the students’ academic development and career aspirations.\n\nProgram activities occur during after school hours (3.30–5.00pm), on weekends from 9 to 5 pm, during June and July, and school breaks.\n\n"}
{"id": "11415561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11415561", "title": "Henry H. Carter", "text": "Henry H. Carter\n\nHenry Hare Carter (28 June 1905 - 2001) was an American linguistics professor,\n\ncommander in the US Naval Reserve, translator, and a Spanish or Portuguese writer of textbooks\n\nand research.\n\nHenry Hare Carter was born on June 28, 1905, in Staten Island, New York, to John Hanford and Elizabeth Carter (née Ensminger). He married Gloria Maria Castello Branco de Gouveia (deceased May 16, 2015) in Recife, Brazil in 1946.\n\nProfessor Carter received his B.S., A.M. & Ph.D. degrees from the University of Pennsylvania in years 1928, 1931 and 1937. Dr. Carter was a professor of romance languages for almost 40 years at several colleges and universities, including the University of Pennsylvania; Northwestern University, Evanston; the Naval Academy; DePaul University; Colorado College; and for the last 24 years of teaching (from 1956) at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend, Indiana, where he retired as Professor Emeritus of Romance Languages and Literatures.\n\nAmong his teaching specialities were Spanish literature; the history of the Spanish language; and Spanish poetry, drama, and prose. He spoke seven languages.\n\nDuring his student days, he would often travel and study abroad during the summers in Europe with foreign studies, including Madrid in 1931, the Sorbonne (Paris) in 1933, \"Corsi Roma\" (Rome) 1937, and Coimbra, Portugal in 1939.\n\nFor most of his professional life he was interested in the translation of 12th- and 13th-century manuscripts, written by monks, about the stories of Joseph of Arimathea and the Holy Grail, and the legend of El Cid. He also was a scout on his travels in South America and Spain for new Spanish words to be included in the Williams' Spanish-English Dictionary. His endorsement of the book was included on the front cover of the paperback edition.\n\nHenry Carter was elected to numerous academies, both in the United States and abroad, including: the Brazilian Academy of Philology (1971), the Academy of Sciences, Lisbon (1975), and \"Académico de Mérito\", in the Portuguese Academy of History (1989).\n\nDuring World War II, he was assigned to the Office of Naval Intelligence; serving in Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico, and Brazil, where he was the liaison officer between the American and Brazilian navies. He retired from the US Naval Reserve with the rank of commander. During his Navy years, he wrote \"Paleographical Edition and Study of the Language of a Portion of Codex Alcobacensis 200\" and \"Cancioneiro da Ajuda: A Diplomatic Edition\" (1941).\n\nIn retirement, Professor Carter resided with the Congregation of Holy Cross at Moreau Seminary, where he regularly shared stories of the obscure origins of words and delighted generations of seminarians.\n\nHe died in 2001 and was survived by his daughter, Christina Elizabeth Daltro, living in Porto das Dunas, Aquiraz, Ceará, Brazil and in Ocean Springs, MS, and his son, Bruce Edward de Gouveia Carter (deceased November 2014), grandchildren Elithea Van Note, Leana Carter and Tony Carter, living in the US, and Claudia Daltro de Souza and Sylvia Daltro de Souza, both from São Paulo and Brasilia, Brazil; a great-grandson, Henry William Van Note, a great-granddaughter, Clara Evangeline Van Note, both of Moline, IL, a great-grandson Caian Daltro Salgado, Claudia's son, living in São Paulo, Brazil, and twin grandchildren Julia and Lucas Daltro Perreira, living in Brasília-DF, Brazil, Christina Elizabeth Carter Daltro's grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "511629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=511629", "title": "History of Latin America", "text": "History of Latin America\n\nThe term \"Latin America\" primarily refers to the Spanish and Portuguese-speaking countries in the New World.\n\nBefore the arrival of Europeans in the late 15th and early 16th centuries, the region was home to many indigenous peoples, a number of which had advanced civilizations, most notably from North to South; the Olmec, Maya, Muisca and Inca. \nThe region came under control of the crowns of Spain and Portugal, which imposed both Roman Catholicism and their respective languages. Both the Spanish and the Portuguese brought African slaves to their colonies, as laborers, particularly in regions where indigenous populations who could be made to work were absent.\n\nIn the early nineteenth century nearly all of areas of Spanish America attained independence by armed struggle, with the exceptions of Cuba and Puerto Rico. Brazil, which had become a monarchy separate from Portugal, became a republic in the late nineteenth century. Political independence from European monarchies did not result in the abolition of black slavery in the new sovereign nations. Political independence resulted in political and economic instability in Spanish America immediately after independence. Great Britain and the United States exercised significant influence in the post-independence era, resulting in a form of neo-colonialism, whereby a country's political sovereignty remained in place, but foreign powers exercised considerable power in the economic sphere.\n\nThe idea that a part of the Americas has a cultural or racial affinity with all Romance cultures can be traced back to the 1830s, in particular in the writing of the French Saint-Simonian Michel Chevalier, who postulated that this part of the Americas were inhabited by people of a \"Latin race,\" and that it could, therefore, ally itself with \"Latin Europe\" in a struggle with \"Teutonic Europe,\" \"Anglo-Saxon America\" and \"Slavic Europe.\" The idea was later taken up by Latin American intellectuals and political leaders of the mid- and late-nineteenth century, who no longer looked to Spain or Portugal as cultural models, but rather to France. The actual term \"Latin America\" was coined in France under Napoleon III and played a role in his campaign to imply cultural kinship with France, transform France into a cultural and political leader of the area and install Maximilian as emperor of Mexico.\n\nIn the mid-twentieth century, especially in the United States, there was a trend to occasionally classify all of the territory south of the United States as \"Latin America,\" especially when the discussion focused on its contemporary political and economic relations to the rest of the world, rather than solely on its cultural aspects. Concurrently, there has been a move to avoid this oversimplification by talking about \"Latin America and the Caribbean,\" as in the United Nations geoscheme.\n\nSince, the concept and definitions of Latin American are very modern, going back only to the nineteenth century, it is anachronistic to talk about \"a history of Latin America\" before the arrival of the Europeans. Nevertheless, the many and varied cultures that did exist in the pre-Columbian period had a strong and direct influence on the societies that emerged as a result of the conquest, and therefore, they cannot be overlooked. They are introduced in the next section.\n\nWhat is now Latin America has been populated for several millennia, possibly for as long as 30,000 years. There are many models of migration to the New World. Precise dating of many of the early civilizations is difficult because there are few text sources. However, highly developed civilizations flourished at various times and places, such as in the Andes and Mesoamerica.\n\nChristopher Columbus landed in the Americas in 1492. Subsequently, the major sea powers in Europe sent expeditions to the New World to build trade networks and colonies and to convert the native peoples to Christianity. Spain concentrated on building its empire on the central and southern parts of the Americas allotted to it by the Treaty of Tordesillas, because of presence of large, settled societies like the Aztec, the Inca, the Maya and the Muisca, whose human and material resources it could exploit, and large concentrations of silver and gold. The Portuguese built their empire in Brazil, which fell in their sphere of influence owing to the Treaty of Tordesillas, by developing the land for sugar production since there was a lack of a large, complex society or mineral resources.\n\nDuring the European colonization of the western hemisphere, most of the native population died, mainly by disease. In what has come to be known as the Columbian exchange, diseases such as smallpox and measles decimated populations with no immunity. The size of the indigenous populations has been studied in the modern era by historians, but Dominican friar Bartolomé de las Casas raised the alarm in the earliest days of Spanish settlement in the Caribbean in his \"A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies\".\n\nThe conquerors and colonists of Latin America also had a major impact on the population of Latin America. The Spanish conquistadors committed savage acts of violence against the natives. According to Bartolomé de las Casas, the Europeans worked the native population to death, separated the men and the women so they could not reproduce, and hunted down and killed any natives who escaped with dogs. Las Casas claimed that the Spaniards made the natives work day and night in mines and would \"test the sharpness of their blades\" on the natives. Las Casas estimated that around three million natives died from war, slavery, and overworking. When talking about the cruelty, Las Casas said \"Who in future generations will believe this? I myself writing it as a knowledgeable eyewitness can hardly believe it.\"\n\nBecause the Spanish were now in power, native culture and religion were forbidden. The Spanish even went as far as burning the Maya Codices (like books). These codices contained information about astrology, religion, Gods, and rituals. There are four codices known to exist today; these are the Dresden Codex, Paris Codex, Madrid Codex, and HI Codex. The Spanish also melted down countless pieces of golden artwork so they could bring the gold back to Spain and destroyed countless pieces of art that they viewed as unchristian. \n\nThe Spanish Crown regulated immigration to its overseas colonies, with travelers required to register with the House of Trade in Seville. Since the crown wished to exclude anyone who was non-Christian (Jews, crypto-Jews, and Muslims) passing as Christian, travelers' backgrounds were vetted. The ability to regulate the flow of people enabled the Spanish Crown to keep a grip on the religious purity of its overseas empire. The Spanish Crown was rigorous in their attempt to allow only Christians passage to the New World and required proof of religion by way of personal testimonies. Specific examples of individuals dealing with the Crown allow for an understanding of how religion affected passage into the New World.\n\nFrancisca de Figueroa, an African-Iberian woman seeking entrance into the Americas, petitioned the Spanish Crown in 1600 in order to gain a license to sail to Cartagena. On her behalf she had a witness attest to her religious purity, Elvira de Medina wrote, \"this witness knows that she and parents and her grandparents have been and are Old Christians and of unsullied cast and lineage. They are not of Moorish or Jewish caste or of those recently converted to Our Holy Catholic Faith.\" Despite Francisca's race, she was allowed entrance into the Americas in 1601 when a 'Decree from His Majesty' was presented, it read, \"My presidents and official judges of the Case de Contraction of Seville. I order you to allow passage to the Province of Cartagena for Francisca de Figueroa ...\" This example points to the importance of religion when attempting to travel to the Americas during colonial times. Individuals had to work within the guidelines of Christianity in order to appeal to the Crown and be granted access to travel.\n\nOnce in the New World, religion was still a prevalent issue which had to be considered in everyday life. Many of the laws were based in religious beliefs and traditions and often these laws clashed with the many other cultures throughout colonial Latin America. One of the central clashes was between African and Iberian cultures; this difference in culture resulted in the aggressive prosecution of witches, both African and Iberian, throughout Latin America. According to European tradition \"[a] witch – a bruja – was thought to reject God and the sacraments and instead worship the devil and observe the witches' Sabbath.\" This rejection of God was seen as an abomination and was not tolerated by the authorities either in Spain nor Latin America. A specific example, the trial of Paula de Eguiluz, shows how an appeal to Christianity can help to lessen punishment even in the case of a witch trial.\n\nPaula de Eguiluz was a woman of African descent who was born in Santo Domingo and grew up as a slave, sometime in her youth she learned the trade of witches and was publicly known to be a sorceress. \"In 1623, Paula was accused of witchcraft (brujeria), divination and apostasy (declarations contrary to Church doctrine).\" Paula was tried in 1624 and began her hearings without much knowledge of the Crowns way of conducting legal proceedings. There needed to be appeals to Christianity and announcements of faith if an individual hoped to lessen the sentence. Learning quickly, Paula correctly \"recited the Lord's Prayer, the Creed, the Salve Regina, and the Ten Commandments\" before the second hearing of her trial. Finally, in the third hearing of the trial Paula ended her testimony by \"ask[ing] Our Lord to forgive [me] for these dreadful sins and errors and requests ... a merciful punishment.\" The appeals to Christianity and profession of faith allowed Paula to return to her previous life as a slave with minimal punishment. The Spanish Crown placed a high importance on the preservation of Christianity in Latin America, this preservation of Christianity allowed colonialism to rule Latin America for over three hundred years.\n\nFollowing the model of the American and French revolutions, most of Latin America achieved its independence by 1825. Independence destroyed the old common market that existed under the Spanish Empire after the Bourbon Reforms and created an increased dependence on the financial investment provided by nations which had already begun to industrialize; therefore, Western European powers, in particular Great Britain and France, and the United States began to play major roles, since the region became economically dependent on these nations. Independence also created a new, self-consciously \"Latin American\" ruling class and intelligentsia which at times avoided Spanish and Portuguese models in their quest to reshape their societies. This elite looked towards other Catholic European models—in particular France—for a new Latin American culture, but did not seek input from indigenous peoples.\n\nThe failed efforts in Spanish America to keep together most of the initial large states that emerged from independence— Gran Colombia, the Federal Republic of Central America and the United Provinces of South America—resulted a number of domestic and interstate conflicts, which plagued the new countries. Brazil, in contrast to its Hispanic neighbors, remained a united monarchy and avoided the problem of civil and interstate wars. Domestic wars were often fights between federalists and centrists who ended up asserted themselves through the military repression of their opponents at the expense of civilian political life. The new nations inherited the cultural diversity of the colonial era and strived to create a new identity based around the shared European (Spanish or Portuguese) language and culture. Within each country, however, there were cultural and class divisions that created tension and hurt national unity.\nFor the next few decades there was a long process to create a sense of nationality. Most of the new national borders were created around the often centuries-old audiencia jurisdictions or the Bourbon intendancies, which had become areas of political identity. In many areas the borders were unstable, since the new states fought wars with each other to gain access to resources, especially in the second half of the nineteenth century. The more important conflicts were the Paraguayan War (1864–70; also known as the War of the Triple Alliance) and the War of the Pacific (1879–84). The Paraguayan War pitted Argentina, Brazil and Uruguay against Paraguay, which was utterly defeated. As a result, Paraguay suffered a demographic collapse: the population went from an estimated 525,000 persons in 1864 to 221,000 in 1871 and out of this last population, only around 28,000 were men. In the War of the Pacific, Chile defeated the combined forces of Bolivia and Peru. Chile gained control of saltpeter-rich areas, previously controlled by Peru and Bolivia, and Bolivia became a land-locked nation. By mid-century the region also confronted a growing United States, seeking to expand on the North American continent and extend its influence in the hemisphere. In Mexican–American War (1846–48), Mexico lost over half of its territory to the United States. In the 1860s France attempted to indirectly control Mexico. In South America, Brazil consolidated its control of large swaths of the Amazon Basin at the expense of its neighbors. In the 1880s the United States implemented an aggressive policy to defend and expand its political and economic interests in all of Latin America, which culminated in the creation of the Pan-American Conference, the successful completion of the Panama Canal and the United States intervention in the final Cuban war of independence.\n\nThe export of natural resources provided the basis of most Latin American economies in the nineteenth century, which allowed for the development of wealthy elite. The restructuring of colonial economic and political realities resulted in a sizable gap between rich and poor, with landed elites controlling the vast majority of land and resources. In Brazil, for instance, by 1910 85% of the land belonged to 1% of the population. Gold mining and fruit growing, in particular, were monopolized by these wealthy landowners. These \"Great Owners\" completely controlled local activity and, furthermore, were the principal employers and the main source of wages. This led to a society of peasants whose connection to larger political realities remained in thrall to farming and mining magnates.\n\nThe endemic political instability and the nature of the economy resulted in the emergence of caudillos, military chiefs whose hold on power depended on their military skill and ability to dispense patronage. The political regimes were at least in theory democratic and took the form of either presidential or parliamentary governments. Both were prone to being taken over by a caudillo or an oligarchy. The political landscape was occupied by conservatives, who believed that the preservation of the old social hierarchies served as the best guarantee of national stability and prosperity, and liberals, who sought to bring about progress by freeing up the economy and individual initiative. Popular insurrections were often influential and repressed: 100,000 were killed during the suppression of a Colombian revolt between 1899 and 1902 during the Thousand Days' War. Some states did manage to have some of democracy: Uruguay, and partially Argentina, Chile, Costa Rica and Colombia. The others were clearly oligarchist or authoritarian, although these oligarchs and caudillos sometimes enjoyed support from a majority in the population. All of these regimes sought to maintain Latin America's lucrative position in the world economy as a provider of raw materials.\n\nBy the start of the century, the United States continued its interventionist attitude, which aimed to directly defend its interests in the region. This was officially articulated in Theodore Roosevelt's Big Stick Doctrine, which modified the old Monroe Doctrine, which had simply aimed to deter European intervention in the hemisphere. At the conclusion of the Spanish–American War the new government of Cuba and the United States signed the Platt Amendment in 1902, which authorized the United States to intervene in Cuban affairs when the United States deemed necessary. In Colombia, United States sought the concession of a territory in Panama to build a much anticipated canal across the isthmus. The Colombian government opposed this, but a Panamanian insurrection provided the United States with an opportunity. The United States backed Panamanian independence and the new nation granted the concession. These were not the only interventions carried out in the region by the United States. In the first decades of the twentieth century, there were several military incursions into Central America and the Caribbean, mostly in defense of commercial interests, which became known as the \"Banana Wars.\"\n\nThe greatest political upheaval in the second decade of the century took place in Mexico. In 1908, President Porfirio Díaz, who had been in office since 1884, promised that he would step down in 1910. Francisco I. Madero, a moderate liberal whose aim was to modernize the country while preventing a socialist revolution, launched an election campaign in 1910. Díaz, however, changed his mind and ran for office once more. Madero was arrested on election day and Díaz declared the winner. These events provoked uprisings, which became the start of the Mexican Revolution. Revolutionary movements were organized and some key leaders appeared: Pancho Villa in the north, Emiliano Zapata in the south, and Madero in Mexico City. Madero's forces defeated the federal army in early 1911, assumed temporary control of the government and won a second election later on November 6, 1911. Madero undertook moderate reforms to implement greater democracy in the political system but failed to satisfy many of the regional leaders in what had become a revolutionary situation. Madero's failure to address agrarian claims led Zapata to break with Madero and resume the revolution. On February 18, 1913 Victoriano Huerta, a conservative general organized a coup d'état with the support of the United States; Madero was killed four days later. Other revolutionary leaders such as Villa, Zapata, and Venustiano Carranza continued to militarily oppose the federal government, now under Huerta's control. Allies Zapata and Villa took Mexico City in March 1914, but found themselves outside of their elements in the capital and withdrew to their respective bastions. This allowed Carranza to assume control of the central government. He then organized the repression of the rebel armies of Villa and Zapata, led in particular by General Álvaro Obregón. The Mexican Constitution of 1917, still the current constitution, was proclaimed but initially little enforced. The efforts against the other revolutionary leaders continued. Zapata was assassinated on April 10, 1919. Carranza himself was assassinated on May 15, 1920, leaving Obregón in power, who was officially elected president later that year. Finally in 1923 Villa was also assassinated. With the removal of the main rivals Obregón is able to consolidate power and relative peace returned to Mexico. Under the Constitution a liberal government is implemented but some of the aspirations of the working and rural classes remained unfulfilled. (See also, Agrarian land reform in Mexico.)\nSports became increasingly popular, drawing enthusiastic fans to large stadia. The International Olympic Committee (IOC) worked to encourage Olympic ideals and participation. Following the 1922 Latin American Games in Rio de Janeiro, the IOC helped to establish national Olympic committees and prepare for future competition. In Brazil, however, sporting and political rivalries slowed progress as opposing factions fought to control of international sport. The 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris and the 1928 Summer Olympics games in Amsterdam saw greatly increased participation from Latin American athletes. English and Scottish engineers brought futebol (soccer) to Brazil in the late 1800s. The International Committee of the YMCA of North America and the Playground Association of America played major roles in training coaches. .\n\nThe Great Depression posed a great challenge to the region. The collapse of the world economy meant that the demand for raw materials drastically declined, undermining many of the economies of Latin America. Intellectuals and government leaders in Latin America turned their backs on the older economic policies and turned toward import substitution industrialization. The goal was to create self-sufficient economies, which would have their own industrial sectors and large middle classes and which would be immune to the ups and downs of the global economy. Despite the potential threats to United States commercial interests, the Roosevelt administration (1933–1945) understood that the United States could not wholly oppose import substitution. Roosevelt implemented a Good Neighbor policy and allowed the nationalization of some American companies in Latin America. Mexican President Lázaro Cárdenas nationalized American oil companies, out of which he created Pemex. Cárdenas also oversaw the redistribution of a quantity of land, fulfilling the hopes of many since the start of the Mexican Revolution. The Platt Amendment was also repealed, freeing Cuba from legal and official interference of the United States in its politics. The Second World War also brought the United States and most Latin American nations together.\n\nIn the postwar period, the expansion of communism became the greatest political issue for both the United States and governments in the region. The start of the Cold War forced governments to choose between the United States and the Soviet Union. Following the 1948 Costa Rica Civil War, the nation established a new constitution and was recognized as the first legitimate democracy in Latin America However, the new Costa Rican government, which now was constitutionally required to ban the presence of a standing military, did not seek regional influence and was distracted further by conflicts with neighboring Nicaragua.\n\nSeveral socialist and communist insurgencies broke out in Latin America throughout the entire twentieth century, but the most successful one was in Cuba. The Cuban Revolution was led by Fidel Castro against the regime of Fulgencio Batista, who since 1933 was the principal autocrat in Cuba. Since the 1860s the Cuban economy had focused on the cultivation of sugar, of which 82% was sold in the American market by the twentieth century. Despite the repeal of the Platt Amendment, the United States still had considerable influence in Cuba, both in politics and in everyday life. In fact Cuba had a reputation of being the \"brothel of the United States,\" a place where Americans could find all sorts of licit and illicit pleasures, provided they had the cash. Despite having the socially advanced constitution of 1940, Cuba was plagued with corruption and the interruption of constitutional rule by autocrats like Batista. Batista began his final turn as the head of the government in a 1952 coup. The coalition that formed under the revolutionaries hoped to restore the constitution, reestablish a democratic state and free Cuba from the American influence. The revolutionaries succeeded in toppling Batista on January 1, 1959. Castro, who initially declared himself as a non-socialist, initiated a program of agrarian reforms and nationalizations in May 1959, which alienated the Eisenhower administration (1953–61) and resulted in the United States breaking of diplomatic relations, freezing Cuban assets in the United States and placing an embargo on the nation in 1960. The Kennedy administration (1961–1963) authorized the funding and support of an invasion of Cuba by exiles. The invasion failed and radicalized the revolutionary government's position. Cuba officially proclaimed itself socialist and openly became an ally of the Soviet Union. The military collaboration between Cuba and the Soviet Union, which included the placement of intercontinental ballistic missiles in Cuba precipitated the Cuban Missile Crisis of October 1962.\n\nBy the 1970s, leftists had acquired a significant political influence which prompted the right-wing, ecclesiastical authorities and a large portion of each individual country's upper class to support coups d'état to avoid what they perceived as a communist threat. This was further fueled by Cuban and United States intervention which led to a political polarization. Most South American countries were in some periods ruled by military dictatorships that were supported by the United States of America.\n\nAround the 1970s, the regimes of the Southern Cone collaborated in Operation Condor killing many leftist dissidents, including some urban guerrillas.\n\nThe set of specific economic policy prescriptions that were considered the \"standard\" reform package were promoted for crisis-wracked developing countries by Washington, DC-based institutions such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, and the US Treasury Department during the 1980s and '90s.\n\nIn recent years, several Latin American countries led by socialist or other left wing governments—including Argentina and Venezuela—have campaigned for (and to some degree adopted) policies contrary to the Washington Consensus set of policies. (Other Latin counties with governments of the left, including Brazil, Chile and Peru, have in practice adopted the bulk of the policies). Also critical of the policies as actually promoted by the International Monetary Fund have been some US economists, such as Joseph Stiglitz and Dani Rodrik, who have challenged what are sometimes described as the \"fundamentalist\" policies of the International Monetary Fund and the US Treasury for what Stiglitz calls a \"one size fits all\" treatment of individual economies.\nThe term has become associated with neoliberal policies in general and drawn into the broader debate over the expanding role of the free market, constraints upon the state, and US influence on other countries' national sovereignty.\n\nSince the 2000s, or 1990s in some countries, left-wing political parties have risen to power. Hugo Chávez in Venezuela, Lula da Silva and Dilma Rousseff in Brazil, Fernando Lugo in Paraguay, Néstor and Cristina Kirchner in Argentina, Tabaré Vázquez and José Mujica in Uruguay, the Lagos and Bachelet governments in Chile, Evo Morales in Bolivia, Daniel Ortega in Nicaragua, Manuel Zelaya in Honduras (although deposed by the 28 June 2009 \"coup d'état\"), and Rafael Correa of Ecuador are all part of this wave of left-wing politicians who also often declare themselves socialists, Latin Americanists or anti-imperialists.\n\nThe conservative wave () is a political phenomenon that emerged in mid-2010 in South America. In Brazil, it began roughly around the time Dilma Rousseff, in a tight election, won the 2014 presidential election, kicking off the fourth term of the Workers' Party in the highest position of government. In addition, according to the political analyst of the Inter-Union Department of Parliamentary Advice, Antônio Augusto de Queiroz, the National Congress elected in 2014 may be considered the most conservative since the \"re-democratization\" movement, noting an increase in the number of parliamentarians linked to more conservative segments, as ruralists, military, police and religious.\n\nThe subsequent economic crisis of 2015 and investigations of corruption scandals led to a right-wing movement that sought to rescue ideas from economic liberalism and conservatism in opposition to left-wing policies.\n\n\nOasisamerica:\n\nAridoamerica:\n\n\nMesoamerica:\n\nSouth America:\nBritish colonization of the Americas, Danish colonization of the Americas, Dutch colonization of the Americas, New Netherland, French New France, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, New Spain, Conquistador, Spanish conquest of Yucatán, Spanish conquest of Mexico, Spanish missions in California, Swedish\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2274275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2274275", "title": "Houghton family", "text": "Houghton family\n\nThe Houghton family is a prominent New England and Upstate New York business family. Members of the family are founders of Corning Glass Works.\n\nTheir family includes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4566516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4566516", "title": "Hypermasculinity", "text": "Hypermasculinity\n\nHypermasculinity is a psychological term for the exaggeration of male stereotypical behavior, such as an emphasis on physical strength, aggression, and sexuality. This term has been used pejoratively by some scholars.\n\nOne of the first studies of hypermasculinity was conducted by Donald L. Mosher and Mark Sirkin in 1984. Mosher and Sirkin have operationally defined hypermasculinity or the \"macho personality\" as consisting of three variables:\nThey developed the \"Hypermasculinity Inventory\" (HMI) designed to measure the three components. Research has found that hypermasculinity is associated with sexual and physical aggression towards women. Prisoners have higher hypermasculinity scores than control groups.\n\nFinger length (specifically the lengths of the ring and index fingers), have been correlated with high and low levels of fetal androgens. These digit ratios (2D:4D) have been prevalent in more recent research on this topic. 2D:4D relationships have been correlated with different amounts of prenatal testosterone, and it is generally believed that having a shorter index (or 2nd digit) than the ring finger (or 4th digit), corresponds with having higher levels of prenatal androgens. Relatively masculine ratios have been associated with male heterosexuality, criminality, ADHD, and autism spectrum disorder.\n\nAlthough these findings have been more significant in males, many studies feel that more research on the effects of these hormone levels in women will be useful in fully understanding this phenomenon. Differing levels of prenatal androgens have been found to modulate moral reasoning. On average, women who were administered exogenous testosterone showed increased preference for utilitarian over deontological judgments. This effect was inverted, however, in women whose finger length ratios were consistent with high prenatal testosterone exposure. Samples of feminist activists in Sweden and Austria showed relatively masculine digit ratios compared to the average for women.\n\nWhile popular identification of hypermasculine traits tends to revolve around the outward physical aspects of violence, danger and sexual aggression, much less consideration is given to the emotive characteristics that define those men deemed \"hypermasculine\". Hypermasculine attitudes can also include emotional self-control as a sign of toughness. To be emotionally hardened or indifferent, especially toward women, is to display what Thomas Scheff calls \"character\" – composure and impassiveness in times of great stress or emotion. Of this hypermasculine stoicism, Scheff observes, \"it is masculine men that have 'character'. A man with character who is under stress is not going to cry and blubber like a woman or child might.\"\n\nSelf-imposed emotional monitoring by men has also greatly affected the conditions in which they communicate with women. Ben-Zeev, Scharnetzki, Chan and Dennehy (2012) write of a recent study that has shown many men to deliberately avoid behaviours and attitudes such as compassion and emotional expression, deeming these traits feminine and thus rejecting them altogether. Scheff adds, \"The hypermasculine pattern leads to competition, rather than connection between persons.\" In the context of intimate or emotional communication (especially confrontation) with women, the masculine male often withdraws emotionally, refusing to engage in what is termed affective communication (Scheff). In a similar study of affective communication behaviours, gender contrast – the deliberate or subconscious negation by one sex of the behaviours of the other – was far more evident within the young boys used as test subjects than of the girls.\n\nWhere this insistence on emotional indifference manifests in the physical definitions of hyper masculinity is discussed by Scheff: \"Repressing love and the vulnerable emotions (grief, fear and shame, the latter as in feelings of rejection or disconnection) leads to either silence or withdrawal, on the one hand, or acting out anger (flagrant hostility), on the other. The composure and poise of hypermasculinity seems to be a recipe for silence and violence.\"\n\nBen-Zeev, Scharnetzki, Chang and Dennehy point toward images in the media as the most important factor influencing hypermasculine behaviour, stating \"After all, media does not only reflect cultural norms but can and does transform social reality\". This is based on the fact that physical and emotional elements of hypermasculine behaviour are manifested regularly in advertising, Hollywood film, and even in video games through the use of very strong imagery: muscular men overpowering women in advertisements, actors portraying staunch male characters who do not give in to the emotional appeals of their female counterparts and countless video games whose story lines are based strictly on violence. The constant availability of these images for every-day public viewing and use has indeed paved the way for the construction of a system of re-enactment (consciously or unconsciously) by both men and women, of the values they perpetuate (Ben-Zeev et al.).\n\nBrian Krans describes the results of a study in which advertisements in men's magazines were analyzed for hypermasculine appeal: \"The team found that at least one hypermasculinity variable appeared in 56 percent of the 527 advertisements they identified. Some magazines' advertisements included hypermasculine messages a whopping 90 percent of the time.\" Krans reports that the researchers were concerned that such ads, which are generally aimed at young male audiences, are playing a very prominent role in shaping the still-developing attitudes toward gender of these young men.\n\nIn the gaming industry, hypermasculinity is experienced mainly through the fantastic and often violent situations presented in the gameplay, and as well by the typical design and character traits of the playable characters: often powerfully built, bold and full of bravado and usually armed. \"The choice of female characters and actions within games leaves women with few realistic, non-sexualized options\", while female characters, like Lara Croft, are but illusions of female empowerment, and instead serve only to satisfy the gaze of men.\n\nHypermasculine styles in gay male culture are prominent in gay disco groups of the 1970s such as Village People, and are reflected in the BDSM gay subculture depicted in the film \"Cruising\" (1980). The term \"hypermasculine\" also characterizes a style of erotic art in which male figure's muscles and penis/testicles are portrayed as being unrealistically large and prominent. Gay artists who exploit hypermasculine types include Tom of Finland and Gengoroh Tagame.\n\nThe media's influence in creating gendered behaviours operates strongly upon women. In the same way that male consumers seek to conform to the physical and emotional characteristics predicated by stereotypes in visual media, so too do women tend to fall into the trap of conforming to the imagined social norms. Only, the media encourages them to fulfill the roles of the submissive and subservient women depicted in advertisements and commercials; in other words, the system pressures women to assume their roles as the focal points of the violence and sexual callousness of men. \"Advertisements depicting men as violent (particularly towards women) is disturbing, because gender portrayals in advertisements do more than sell products. They also perpetuate stereotypes and present behavioural norms for men and women.\"\n\nScholars assert that colonizers' perception of the colonial black subject as an uncivilized, primitive, \"irrational nonsubject\" served as justification for the traumas inflicted on them, and that the legacy of such a perception is still evident in today's society. As a means of resistance, black men project hypermasculinity in order to combat the feelings of powerlessness that are imposed on them by an \"abusive and repressive\" society. However, this merging of black identity and masculinity has \"overdetermine[d] the identities black males are allowed to fashion for themselves\", perpetuating negative stereotypes of all black men as inherently violent and dangerous.\n\nIn his 2002 book \"Soul Babies: Black Popular Culture and the Post-Soul Aesthetic\", Mark Anthony Neal states that black masculinity became synonymous with a unified black identity during the Civil Rights Movement. Neal claims that the hypermasculinity translated as violence within the black community to protect from violence directed at the black community from white America. Black gays and women were sometimes censured outright in an effort to merge black identity with masculinity. Huey P. Newton, in an effort to improve ties, wrote an essay to advocate for a stronger alliance between black political organizations and the women and gay members of their community. In it, he admitted that this popularity of hypermasculinity drives a tendency towards violence and silencing of women and gay men, which didn't permit these marginalized members to become a part of the black identity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3270420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3270420", "title": "Idem", "text": "Idem\n\nidem. is a Latin term meaning \"the same\". It is commonly abbreviated as id.,\nwhich is particularly used in legal citations to denote the previously cited source (compare \"ibid.\"). It is also used in academic citations to replace the name of a repeated author. \n\n\"Id.\" is employed extensively in Canadian legislation and in legal documents of the United States to apply a short description to a section with the same focus as the previous.\n\n\"Id\" is masculine and neuter; ead. (feminine), is the abbreviation for eadem, which also translates to \"the same\". \n\nAs an abbreviation, \"Id.\" always takes a period (or full stop) in both British and American usage (see usage of the full stop in abbreviations). Its first known use dates back to the 14th century.\n\nHere, the first citation refers to the case of \"United States v. Martinez-Fuerte.\" The volume number cited is 428 and the page on which the case begins is 543, and the page number cited to is 545. The \"U.S.\" between the numerical portions of the citation refers to the \"United States Reports\". 1976 refers to the year that the case was published. The second citation references the first citation and automatically incorporates the same reporter and volume number; however, the page number cited is now 547. \"Id.\" refers to the immediately preceding citation, so if the previous citation includes more than one reference, or it is unclear which reference \"Id.\" refers to, its usage is inappropriate.\n\n\nHere, Id. refers to the Executive Order that was mentioned in the previous sentence.\n\n\nIn this example, \"Id\" in the second citation indicates that the author is identical to that of the previous citation. That is, the author of the second citation is also Macgillivray, J. A.\n\n"}
{"id": "12866711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12866711", "title": "Injustice", "text": "Injustice\n\nInjustice is a quality relating to unfairness or undeserved outcomes. The term may be applied in reference to a particular event or situation, or to a larger status quo. In Western philosophy and jurisprudence, injustice is very commonly—but not always—defined as either the absence or the opposite of justice.\n\nThe sense of injustice is a universal human feature, though the exact circumstances considered unjust can vary from culture to culture. While even acts of nature can sometimes arouse the sense of injustice, the sense is usually felt in relation to human action such as misuse, abuse, neglect, or malfeasance that is uncorrected or else sanctioned by a legal system or fellow human beings.\n\nThe sense of injustice can be a powerful motivational condition, causing people to take action not just to defend themselves but also others who they perceive to be unfairly treated.\n\nProfessor Judith Shklar has written that Western philosophers tend to spend much more time discussing the concept of 'justice' rather than 'injustice'. On the other hand, she states both historical writing and fiction use instances of injustice as subject matter far more often than justice.\n\nIn philosophy and jurisprudence, the dominant view has been that injustice and justice are two sides of the same coin—that injustice is simply a lack of justice. This view has been challenged by professors including Judith Shklar, Thomas W Simon and Eric Heinze, who consider that justice and injustice are independent qualities. So, in this minority view, you can increase the justice of a situation without reducing the injustice. Heinze has even gone as far as to argue that an increase in justice can actually cause an increase in injustice.\n\nA relatively common view among philosophers and other writers is that while justice and injustice may be interdependent, it is injustice that is the primary quality. Many writers have written that, while it is hard to directly define or even perceive justice, it is easy to demonstrate that injustice can be perceived by all. \nAccording to von Hayek, the earliest known thinker to state that injustice is the primary quality was Heraclitus, whose view was echoed by Aristotle and dozens of others down the centuries. Hayek said that writers often express the idea that injustice is the primary concept \"as though it were a new discovery\", suggesting the view is rarely directly expressed in theories on Justice. But Hayek went on to say that legal positivism has proved that injustice, not justice, is the primary quality.\n\nScholars including Judith Shklar, Edmond Cahn and Barrington Moore, Jr. have surveyed anthropological and historical work on injustice, concluding that the sense of injustice is found everywhere there are men and women; it is a human universal. \nThese writers, and others like Simone Weil, Elizabeth Wolgast and Thomas W Simon, hold that the sense of injustice is a powerful motivational condition — unlike the sense of justice which tends to be conceived in more abstract ways, and tends to inspire contemplation rather than action.\n\nCahn held that, for evolutionary reasons, humans who witness others being subjected to injustice can respond as though it was an act of aggression towards themselves. There can be an immediate, visceral activation of the flight or fight system. As Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. puts it \"injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere\". A 2012 study published in Psychological Science found that even babies have a sense of injustice and dislike having it violated, even when they witness events that do not directly effect them.\n\nIn the field of jurisprudence, Cahn has argued that it is an important skill for lawyers to know how to rouse a jury's sense of injustice — something best done by appeals to the particular, not by abstractions or boilerplate type statements. Barrington Moore asserts that reasons why populations often submit to oppression for long periods of time is that they consider it inevitable and so their sense of injustice is not aroused. He says that a widely shared sense of injustice is an essential, though not sufficient, cause of rebellion. Writers including Simone Weil, Elizabeth Wolgast and Judith Shklar have said that an aroused sense of injustice can be an essential prerequisite to action needed for protecting the weak and afflicted.\n\nA common cause of injustice is human selfishness. As Plato described at length in \"The Republic\", people will often commit acts of injustice when they calculate it is in their interests to do so. Plato also adds that \"The highest reach of injustice is to be deemed just when you are not\". Human injustice is not always caused by attempt to gain unfair advantage or malice; it may be simply the result of the flawed human decision making. For example, studies have found that judges sitting on review boards are less likely to reach decisions favorable to applicants depending on how long it is since the judges had their last food break. Misuse and abuse with regard to a particular case or context may represent a systemic failure to serve the cause of justice (cf. legal vacuum).\n\nThe Innocence Project provides a wealth of cases in which the U.S. justice system prosecuted and convicted the wrong person.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39294508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39294508", "title": "Japanese Caribbeans", "text": "Japanese Caribbeans\n\nJapanese Caribbeans are people of Japanese ethnic origin living in the Caribbean. There are small but significant populations of Japanese people and their descendants living in Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, and the Cayman Islands.\n\nCaribbean Islands:\n\nMainland Caribbean:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "316003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316003", "title": "K Foundation art award", "text": "K Foundation art award\n\nThe 1994 K Foundation award was an award given by the K Foundation (Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty) to the \"worst artist of the year\". The shortlist for the £40,000 K Foundation award was identical to the shortlist for the well-established but controversial £20,000 Turner Prize for the best British contemporary artist. On the evening of 23 November 1993, Rachel Whiteread was presented with the 1993 Turner Prize inside London's Tate Gallery, and the 1994 K Foundation award on the street outside.\n\nPrior to presenting their award, the K Foundation held a private exhibit of a collection of art works entitled \"Money - A Major Body of Cash\". The award, the exhibition and the accompanying extravagant press junket were widely reported by the media.\n\nIn June 1993 the newly formed K Foundation began taking out full page national press adverts. Initial advertisements were cryptic, referring to \"K Time\" and advising readers to \"Kick out the clocks\". They mentioned five-year journeys which included pop success and deep space travel and that \"the sands of time are running in\". There was also an advert for the K Foundation's single \"K Cera Cera\" which was \"Available nowhere ... no formats\" and which was not planned for release until world peace was established.\n\nThere was a change of direction with the fourth advert which appeared on 14 August 1993, reading: \"ABANDON ALL ART NOW. Major rethink in progress. Await further announcements.\" The next ad (28 August 1993) read: \"It has come to our attention that you did not abandon all art now. Further direct action is thus necessary. The K Foundation announce the 'mutha of all awards', the 1994 K Foundation award for the worst artist of the year.\" It then went on to detail how a shortlist of four artists had been chosen, and that they would be exhibited in the Tate Gallery.\n\nOne of the first newspaper pieces about the K Foundation appeared in \"The Guardian\" the following Monday, correctly pointing out that the shortlist and exhibition were actually for the 1993 Turner Prize, the controversial £20,000 annual award given by the UK art establishment to the best young contemporary artist, but assuming that the K Foundation prize was a hoax. \"As for the K Foundation\", the newspaper wrote, \"it stands unmasked as the current performing face of those cherished old friends of pop pranksterdom, Bill Drummond and Jimmy Cauty\", formerly known as The KLF. In September, the organisers of the Turner Prize responded publicly that \"It proves the validity of our prize that somebody would take so much trouble to set up this award\".\n\nThe Foundation's next advert invited the general public to vote for the worst artist, either by going to the exhibition and using their critical faculties or by letting their inherent prejudices come to the fore. The final advert summarised the whole campaign, asked some questions back to the people that had written to them, and explained that the winner of the K Foundation award would be announced in a TV advert during the live Turner Prize coverage on Channel 4 television.\n\nOn 20 November 1993, \"The Economist\" reported on the K Foundation prize and placed it in context. \"Every autumn for the past ten years, an increasingly bad-tempered squabble has raged between, on the one hand, many of Britain's art critics and its popular media, and on the other, its avant-garde \"establishment,\" the small croterie of art historians, curators, and dealers who control the Turner prize.\" Predicting that Rachel Whiteread, creator of the controversial sculpture \"House\", would win both awards, the magazine said that, if it were so, \"the vast numbers of people who equate contemporary art with rubbish will, yet again, feel vindicated.\"\n\nThe K Foundation's television adverts on the evening of 23 November 1993 explained that the Foundation were currently \"amending the history of art\" at a secret location. No mention of the alternative award was made in the post-Turner Prize studio discussion. The K Foundation reportedly pre-announced Rachel Whiteread as their winner at 2pm or, at least, at some time before the Turner; at 9.30pm, live on television, the Turner Prize was awarded to the same artist. Whiteread reluctantly collected her K Foundation winnings at just past 11pm, saying, \"sarcastically, \"What an honour.\"\"\n\nDrummond claimed the advertising campaign cost £250,000. The television advertisements cost £20,000, an amount which \"Scotland on Sunday\" said was \"carefully chosen to match the value of the Turner prize\", the newspaper adding that \"Copies of the invoices were supplied as evidence.\" Each press advert cost between £5,000 and £15,000.\n\n25 witnesses - including art critics, journalists, music industry figures and artists - were invited to participate in the Foundation's \"Amending of art history\". They were driven in a convoy of white limousines, led by a gold limo, to Heston Service Station where they were handed a press release and £1650 in crisp new £50 notes. The accompanying press release stated that 25 × £1600 collectively made up the £40000 K Foundation prize, and that the extra £50 was for the witness to verify its authenticity by spending it. The witnesses were dressed in fluorescent orange hard hats and safety jackets.\n\nThe convoy proceeded to a field patrolled by two orange-painted K Foundation Saracen armoured cars, driven by Drummond and Cauty, broadcasting the K Foundation's K Cera Cera and ABBA's \"Money Money Money\". Silver-bearded \"Mr Ball\", the K Foundation's compere, directed the witnesses to nail their wad of money to a board inside a gilt frame, to assemble the K Foundation's prize. Some of the witnesses pocketed all or some of their wad, and the prize money was, according to Danny Kelly, some £9000 short. Mr Ball also directed the witnesses to \"view the art\": One million pounds in £50 notes, nailed to a large framed board. This was the K Foundation's first art work, \"Nailed To A Wall\", \"the first of a series of K Foundation art installations that will also include one million pounds in a skip, one million pounds on a table and several variants on the theme of Tremendous Amounts Of Folding\".\n\nCollectively, the K Foundation's money-as-art works were titled \"Money: A Major Body Of Cash\", \"seven pieces, all involving various amounts of cash nailed to, tied to or simply standing on inanimate objects\". \"Nailed To A Wall\" had a reserve price of £500,000, half the face value of the cash used in its construction, which \"Scotland on Sunday\"'s reporter Robert Dawson Scott was \"fairly confident... really was £1 million [in cash]\". The catalogue entry for the artwork stated: \"Over the years the face value will be eroded by inflation, while the artistic value will rise and rise. The precise point at which the artistic value will overtake the face value is unknown. Deconstruct the work now and you double your money. Hang it on a wall and watch the face value erode, the market value fluctuate, and the artistic value soar. The choice is yours.\"\n\nRachel Whiteread had already been notified of her \"victory\" but had refused to accept the prize or allow the K Foundation to use her name. The motorcade left the site of the amending of art-history and headed back to London, for a showdown with Whiteread on the steps of the Tate. When she again refused to accept the money, the K Foundation explained that it would be burnt. With the crowd of now very drunk witnesses looking on, a masked K Foundation operative (Gimpo) fumbled with matches and lighter fluid. At the last moment Rachel Whiteread emerged from the Tate and accepted the money, stating that she would give it as grants to needy artists.\n\nThe next day, the K Foundation's publicist, Mick Houghton, claimed that the voting for the K Foundation's award was supposed to produce a tie, to illustrate the hypocrisy of the Turner award committee, but that strangely the result had been a huge margin of victory for Whiteread. He speculated that the few thousand voters had just liked or rather disliked the sound of her name.\n\nDefending Whiteread, Lord Palumbo told \"The Guardian\" that: \"Talent at the highest level attracts derision. We must let the artist fail.\"\n\nWhiteread's sculpture, \"House\", was demolished, as had been planned from its inception, on 11 January 1994.\n\nA huge amount of press publicity ensued, with all the major newspapers and press organisations reporting that Whiteread had won both awards. Media reaction to the K Foundation award was mixed. David Mills wrote in \"The Times\" that The K Foundation's campaign was \"tiresome\", and he asked \"Doesn't it strike anyone as odd that a group of people who made their money with such artistic endeavours as a disco-version of the Dr Who theme should be suggesting that contemporary art was somehow more fatuous than that?\"\n\nRachel Whiteread had an advertisement printed in the British magazine, \"Art Monthly\", in which she outlined her plan to donate £10,000 to Shelter and distribute the remainder in grants to 10 needy artists. In the advertisement she stated that she \"does not agree with the K Foundation's aims or methods\". Displaying perhaps a little humour, Whiteread's advertisement was in a similar style to the K Foundation ads, with stark white text on a black background.\n\nScottish sculptor David Mach opined to \"Scotland on Sunday\" that \"They're just a bunch of silly buggers. It's good to see money going from a bunch of silly buggers to an artist who is going to make good use of it. What's that saying about a fool and his money...?\" John Bellany, on the other hand, said that \"The emotional, artistic side of [his] nature... admire[d] the audacity and imagination, challenging art and the art manipulators. The rational side of me asks, is this the most expensive art publicity stunt this century, and for whom?\"\n\nWhiteread's agent Karsten Schubert said, \"The whole affair was a non-event. They achieved nothing and they were left looking like real prats.\" Peter Chater, a director of Schubert's agency concurred; he called Drummond and Cauty \"cowards\". \"It was obviously a publicity stunt. What sort of statement they were trying to make I don't know. If it was anything to do with the relationship between art and money it was pretty crass. The KLF made a fortune from a couple of successful singles. Artists aren't in that position. Threatening to set light to £40,000 is pretty obscene.\" Former Factory Records boss Tony Wilson applauded the group, however. \"The K Foundation is a very peculiar avant garde group whose ideas are as valid as anything the Turner people do,\" he told \"NME\". \"Since when has there been laws governing what constitutes art, or an artistic statement? OK, so a lot of people don't understand what Bill and Jimmy are trying to say, but how many people know exactly what Rachel Whiteread's trying to say with her art?\"\n\n\"Modern Review\" art critic John O'Reilly, another of the K Foundation's witnesses, said: \"The whole point of the K Foundation is its anonymity. There's no origin, just a Circulation of data and concepts. There is no master plan, no grand narrative.\" O'Reilly also \"[enjoyed the] sense of waste and sacrifice involved\".\n\nMiranda Sawyer, who attended the presentation, found special interest in a subsidiary incident during the evening of the prize ceremonies: the theft of money by several of the other invited witnesses: \"All the feelings of power and powerlessness that money can bring were fairly summarised with these thefts - it must have turned out better than the K Foundation could have hoped if the examination of cash, art and associated feelings was their point.\" Sawyer named \"Britart\" figure Carl Freedman as one of those who had taken the money, and reported that \"He found the event funny, not offensive (you would too if you walked off with £1,600!), but thought the point had been made before.\"\n\nWriter and \"underground art historian\" Stewart Home was viciously supportive of the K Foundation. \"The avant-garde wasn't to be seen at the Turner Prize gathering, it was to be found among that select band of individuals who'd organised the K Foundation's attack on the smug complacency of the arts establishment... 'dignitaries' such as Lord Polumbo were revealed as buffoons. While Polumbo ranted about the dunces who attack cultural innovations, his rhetoric showed him to be a complete idiot — several people immediately pointed out that he was unable to correctly name Van Gogh's art dealer brother. Likewise, Polumbo claimed that there are no monuments erected to critics and presented himself as a champion of progressive culture, while ignoring the fact that it was critics who picked the winner of the prize he was awarding. It is the K Foundation, rather than Whiteread, who represent a vital and innovative strand within contemporary culture. Their work is simultaneously a critique and a celebration of 'consumer capitalism'.\"\n\nA \"New Musical Express\" piece on 20 November 1993 was also highly supportive of the K Foundation. \"The nearest parallel to the K Foundation donation would be The Beatles' grandiose plans for Apple Corps\", they said. \"But where Apple handed out money willy-nilly to little end and failed to achieve anything more than get some hippies stoned and put up some nice posters about war being over if you want it, Drummond and Cauty have found a specific target - the relationship between art, money and the critical establishment- and attacked it. By actually offering £40,000 to the artist who produces the duffest piece of work, they've simultaneously sent up the whole thing and proved their integrity the hard way.\"\n\n\"The Face\" magazine's witness wrote that \"The accusation that this is a tiresome Situationist gag with a whoopee cushion pay-off belittles the K Foundation's distracted message. They are not mocking any of the artists involved in the Turner or their work so much as the whole tired institution of awards themselves... By telling us to \"use our critical faculties or our innate prejudice\" to vote, the Ks are asking: \"Who decides who decides?\"\"\n\n\"The Independent\"'s witness, David Lister, was less impressed. \"Last night's highly eccentric mystery tour by the K Foundation probably said more about the wealth that can be accumulated from two number one hit records than it did about any resurgence of Dadaism\", he said.\n\n\"The Guardian\" said that Jimmy Cauty, \"[as the artist] responsible for a best-selling Athena poster of the Hobbit ... can justly say he has adorned more walls than any of the Turner nominees\"; and added: \"A grand deflation of the pretensions of the wealthy art elite is an aim that has drawn approval from sections of the art world and philistines who find 'installations' of knotted rope or beds covered in rice curiously unmoving... The joke may yet prove to be at the expense of the Turner.\" In a separate piece, the newspaper implied that the K Foundation had hit their perceived target with some success:\n\nIn a piece published in 2006, \"The Sunday Times\" quoted author James F. English's description of The K Foundation's Art Award as \"hostile philanthropy\". \"Sunday Times\" writer Bryan Appleyard added that the \"K Foundation's witty exploitations of artistic greed ... are essential aspects of the prize itself. They promote the prize, reassure the organisers that, culturally speaking, they are in the thick of it and console the artists with evidence that their work provokes strong reactions. More importantly, for English, such conflicts demonstrate the autonomous nature of the event. These prizes should not be seen as any real or lasting judgment about art, but rather as things in themselves.\"\n\nSome years after the award, Bill Drummond attempted to explain the K Foundation's motives, as he now saw them:\nThe K Foundation's art campaign, \"Money: A Major Body Of Cash\", failed to attract major gallery interest so, on 23 August 1994, Drummond and Cauty disposed of their one million pounds in an alternate fashion: they burnt it on the Scottish island of Jura. (See: K Foundation Burn a Million Quid). In an interview with Drummond, Cauty and Gimpo, Gimpo admitted to harbouring guilt about the million pounds burning; that if he'd burnt Whiteread's £40,000 the million pounds burning would never have happened. \"I should have burnt it. I had petrol all over the £40,000... We were due to wait until eleven o'clock until she came out, but we were told to wait another two minutes... [then] Rachel Whiteread came running out. She just grabbed the money and dragged it over the fence.\" Carl Freedman also wished they'd burnt Whiteread's money. \"It would have been brilliant... It would have been just totally outrageous. People would have been falling out of their-chairs, saying. 'I can't believe they just burned £40,000'\".\n"}
{"id": "8932409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932409", "title": "Law in North America", "text": "Law in North America\n\nThe law of North America is diverse and influential. The law of the United States has worldwide renown, in its codified constitution, and bill of rights, while the law of Cuba differs vastly in its regulation of private property. The first court of justice was established in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada in 1615 by Sir Richard Whitbourne as a court of admiralty at the future site of Trinity, Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1126742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126742", "title": "Leading lady", "text": "Leading lady\n\nLeading lady is a term often applied to the leading actress in the performance if her character is the protagonist. It is also an informal term for the actress who plays a secondary lead, usually a love interest, to the leading actor in a film or play. \n\nA leading lady can also be an actress of renown. For example, Lynn Fontanne and Helen Hayes were both referred to as the \"leading lady of the theatre\" in their time. Similarly, Mary Pickford was called the \"leading lady\" of the cinema.\n\nThe term has been applied to an actress who is often associated with one particular actor. For example, Olivia de Havilland was Errol Flynn's leading lady in several films, Katharine Hepburn had a similar association with Spencer Tracy, Lauren Bacall with Humphrey Bogart, and Maureen O'Hara with John Wayne. A leading lady is also an actress who is typecast in romantic supporting roles.\n\nThe term can also be used collectively; for example, the phrase \"Hollywood's leading ladies\" can be used to refer to a group of notable, famous, or popular actresses.\n\nMany modern day leading ladies includes: Jennifer Aniston, Patricia Arquette, Angela Bassett, Cate Blanchett, Sandra Bullock, Claire Danes, Viola Davis, Gal Gadot, Mariska Hargitay, Katherine Heigl, Angelina Jolie, Scarlett Johansson, Mindy Kaling, Anna Kendrick, Nicole Kidman, Jessica Lange, Jennifer Lawrence, Blake Lively, Jennifer Lopez, Melissa McCarthy, Eva Mendes, Julianne Moore, Elisabeth Moss, Lupita Nyong'o, Sarah Paulson, Amy Poehler, Rihanna, Julia Roberts, Margot Robbie, Zoe Saldana, Hailee Steinfeld, Meryl Streep, Emma Stone, Emma Watson, Rebel Wilson, Kate Winslet, Reese Witherspoon and Sofia Vergara.\n\n"}
{"id": "31578840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31578840", "title": "Maternalism", "text": "Maternalism\n\nMaternalism is the viewpoint that incorporates a common idea of femininity and applies it as a support for women’s involvement in society.\n\nMaternalism emerged in the late 19th Century, as a companion to progressive reform. The theology followed the idea that women had in-born qualities based on their maternalistic instincts. These inborn qualities qualified women to operate outside the home. Women of this time argued that women were uniquely qualified for certain jobs and places in the political sphere based on their domestic abilities and child-rearing qualities.\nThis political mindset continued into the 20th century, influencing government reform and females in the workplace.\n\nMaternalistic professionals, particularly medical doctors, do not dictate to people what to do. They guide their clients gently and give them autonomy without making them feel totally alone or unsupported. Maternalistic people allow people to make decisions, even if they end up being mistakes in the long run.\n\nSocial settlements, founded mainly by middle class women, became popular in urban environments in the late 19th and early 20th Centuries. They provided public housing and resources to working-class people and newly arrived immigrants. Middle class women who ran these settlements worked with immigrants for progressive reform, such as the regulation of workers' compensation and child labor laws. Major settlements included Hull House in Chicago and Toynbee Hall in New York City.\n\nAcceptable female work during this time included school teachers and nursing. In 1910,\n5%-6% of Doctors were female;\n1% of Lawyers were female;\n1% of Clergy were female.\nWomen achieved greater success in creating female oriented jobs than breaking into male dominated jobs during this time, by creating professions designed around their domestic and maternal qualities. Home Economics emerged in the 1890s at MIT and the University of Chicago. Women studied science and used experiments to influence politics. Female-led labs studied ways to create cleaner water and better American sewers.\nPublic Health Nursing was created as an alternative to traditional nursing. This allowed women to have their own private practices and to not have to work under men. However, most women served communities who couldn’t pay, which limited their resources and income. Social work primarily operated in social settlements, serving immigrant women and children. Since many of their clients could not pay, social workers were key players in pushing for progressive reform.\n\nEllen Swallow Richards was a chemist who graduated from Uc Madera in california and founded Home Economics. Richards set up labs at Universities across the country aimed at sanitation and teaching women the sciences. Richards was a key player in maternalist politics as she applied her scientific knowledge to domestic issues in politics, pushing for good nutrition and sanitation.\n\nLugenia Burns Hope was one of the first professional social workers. In 1908 in Atlanta Georgia she founded the Neighborhood Union, which aimed to mobilize and enfranchise poor black neighborhoods in the city.\n\nJane Addams co-founded Hull House in Chicago in 1889. A strong proponent for maternalist politics and progressive reform, she started many initiatives such as clean food and clean drinking water, which gained momentum in the social movement.\n\nMaternalism has been criticized on the grounds that it keeps women out of male dominated professions. It also reinforces a normalized idea of femininity, without considering the fluidity of gender.\n\nIn the same way that advertisers had used images of strong working women to encourage women to enter the workforce in support of the war effort, advertisers after the war presented images of maternalism to pressure women to leave the workforce and return to their homes, so that positions could be filled by men returning from wartime. Women were told that their nurturing abilities would be better served waiting on their husbands and children.\n"}
{"id": "40528675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40528675", "title": "Memoirs of My Life and Writings", "text": "Memoirs of My Life and Writings\n\nMemoirs of My Life and Writings (1796) is an account of the historian Edward Gibbon's life, compiled after his death by his friend Lord Sheffield from six fragmentary autobiographical works Gibbon wrote during his last years. Lord Sheffield's editing has been praised for its ingenuity and taste, but blamed for its unscholarly aggressiveness. Since 1896 several other editions of the work have appeared, more in accordance with modern standards. Gibbon's \"Memoirs\" are considered one of the first autobiographies in the modern sense of the word, and have a secure place in the canon of English literature.\n\nGibbon begins with an account of his ancestors before moving on to his birth and education, which was partly private and partly at Westminster School. He matriculated as a student at Oxford University, an institution which he found at a low ebb.\nTo the university of Oxford I acknowledge no obligation; and she will as cheerfully renounce me for a son, as I am willing to disclaim her for a mother. I spent fourteen months at Magdalen College; they proved the fourteen months the most idle and unprofitable of my whole life.\nOf one of his tutors Gibbon says that he \"well remembered that he had a salary to receive, and only forgot that he had a duty to perform.\" Gibbon's father took alarm on learning that he had converted to Roman Catholicism and, in order to bring him back to the Protestant fold, sent him to live with a Calvinist minister in Lausanne. Gibbon made good use of his time in Switzerland, meeting Voltaire and other literary figures, and perfecting his command of the French language. He also fell in love with a Swiss girl, Suzanne Curchod, but his wish to marry her was implacably opposed by his father. \"I sighed as a lover, I obeyed as a son.\" On returning to England he published his first work, the \"Essai sur l'étude de la littérature\". The next major event Gibbon mentions was his taking a commission in the Hampshire militia, an experience which he tells us was later to be of advantage to him:\nThe discipline and evolutions of a modern battalion gave me a clearer notion of the phalanx and the legion; and the captain of the Hampshire grenadiers (the reader may smile) has not been useless to the historian of the Roman empire.\nHe then details his travels through France and on to Lausanne, where he formed a friendship with John Holroyd, later Lord Sheffield, which was to last for the rest of his life. Gibbon crossed the Alps into Italy and eventually reached Rome. He had for some time wanted to begin writing a history, without being able to choose a subject, but now, he tells us, the exciting experience of walking in the footsteps of the heroes of antiquity gave him a new idea:\nIt was at Rome, on the 15th of October, 1764, as I sat musing amidst the ruins of the Capitol, while the bare-footed friars were singing vespers in the temple of Jupiter, that the idea of writing the decline and fall of the city first started to my mind.\nAfter returning to England Gibbon engaged in several other literary exercises before finally beginning to write his Roman history. The \"Memoirs\" now give a detailed account of the years he spent producing its successive volumes, and of the many hostile criticisms his work attracted. These labours were diversified by his experiences as a Member of Parliament, and his writing, at the request of the Government, a \"Mémoire justificatif\" asserting the justice of British hostilities against France at the time of the American Revolutionary War. During the course of writing the \"Decline and Fall\" Gibbon moved back to Lausanne. Gibbon's \"Memoirs\" end with a survey of the factors he considered had combined to bring him a happy and productive life.\n\nGibbon wrote a short account of his life in French in 1783. For five years he made no attempt to add to this, but in June 1788, one month after the last volumes of \"The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" were published, he began work on the \"Memoirs\" by writing to the College of Arms for information about his ancestry. For the remaining years of his life he struggled with the task of recording his life in a satisfactory way, and his death in 1794 came before he could resolve the problem. Six attempts at an autobiography have survived, conventionally identified by the letters A to F:\n\nA: \"The Memoirs of the life of Edward Gibbon with various observations and excursions by himself\" (1788–1789). 40 quarto pages (6 missing).B: \"My own Life\" (1788–1789). 72 quarto pages. Describes the first 27 years of his life.C: \"Memoirs of the life and writings of Edward Gibbon\" (1789). 41 folio pages plus insert. Describes the first 35 years of his life.D: [Untitled] (1790–1791). 13 folio pages. Describing the first 35 years of his life.E: \"My own Life\" (c. 1792–1793). 19 folio pages of text, and twelve of notes. Describing the first 54 years of his life.F: [Untitled] (1792–1793). 41 folio pages of text, and 7 of notes. Describing the first 16 years of his life.\n\nAs the drafts of the work succeeded each other Gibbon in some passages varied the emphasis, and even changed the facts, but where he was satisfied with the words of the previous version he simply transcribed them. E is the only version to cover his whole life, and perhaps the only one he wrote with a view to publication during his own lifetime, but it omits many things included in the other versions. As he wrote to Lord Sheffield,\nA man may state many things in a posthumous work, that he might not in another; the latter often checks the introduction of many curious thoughts and facts.\nGibbon's struggles with his autobiography were ended by his death in 1794. All six manuscripts then fell into the hands of his literary executor, Lord Sheffield, who used them to produce his own composite edition. They remained undisturbed in the possession of his family, until in 1871 his son George Holroyd, 2nd Earl of Sheffield, lent them to the medical writer William Alexander Greenhill, who established their chronological order of composition and gave them the letters by which they are now always identified. In 1895 the manuscripts were sold by the 3rd earl to the British Museum, where they were bound together. They remain in the British Library as Add. MS. 34874.\n\nAttempting to bring the manuscripts into a publishable state, Lord Sheffield found himself in a quandary. Of all the versions available to him, only E could be called a complete narrative of Gibbon's life up to the 1790s, yet this one was very short on detail, and by no means a substantial work. The other manuscripts were more circumstantial, but all left the story unfinished. His solution was to produce a composite version, taking passages or individual sentences from each, especially from F, and shaping them into an artistically satisfying whole. Choosing the title \"Memoirs of My Life and Writings\", he made the resulting work the centerpiece of a collection of inedited Gibboniana published in 1796 in two quarto volumes as \"Miscellaneous Works of Edward Gibbon Esquire\". The work was reprinted many times through the 19th century, and remained the only published form of Gibbon's autobiography until 1896, when the publisher John Murray produced an edition giving the full text of all six manuscripts. Two years later the American scholar Oliver Farrar Emerson edited the manuscripts along similar lines. In 1966 Georges Bonnard returned to Lord Sheffield’s plan of producing an eclectic edition, though with far greater scholarly conscientiousness. The last major new edition of Gibbon's \"Memoirs\" was the work of Betty Radice, and appeared in the Penguin English Library series in 1984.\n\nSo high is the critical repute of Gibbon's \"Memoirs\" that \"The Cambridge History of English Literature\" declared it had \"by general consent…established itself as one of the most fascinating books of its class in English literature\". One reason for this is the candour and openness with which Gibbon speaks of himself. \"Few men, I believe,\" Lord Sheffield wrote, \"have ever so fully unveiled their own character\". Again, Gibbon broke new ground in making it a truly \"philosophical\", that is to say analytical, autobiography; as the novelist Anthony Burgess wrote, \"the sense of intellectual control, of a life somehow grasped as a concept, is unmatched\". It is widely held that Gibbon's \"Memoirs\", along with the \"Confessions\" of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, brought the modern autobiography into being.\n\nIn recent years much has been written by critics on Gibbon's failure to reach a final recension of his autobiography. It has been explained in various ways: as a sign of Gibbon's wrestling with difficulties of literary form; as a result of disagreements between Gibbon and Sheffield as to how far the \"Memoirs\" should follow Edmund Burke's interpretation of the French Revolution; or in psychoanalytic terms as the reflection of an uncertainty in Gibbon's mind as to his own identity.\n\nWhen, with the publication of Murray's edition, it became possible to judge Sheffield's role in conflating the different versions of the \"Memoirs\", some critics accorded him praise moderated by their shock at finding how large a part he had played. The historian Frederic Harrison's opinion was that he had performed his task with \"great skill and tact, but with the most daring freedom\"; and an anonymous writer in the \"Spectator\" said of Sheffield that\nwith an ingenuity which, in spite of its perversity, cannot but be admired, he concocted out of the six [manuscripts] a patchwork narrative, which has since always passed as Gibbon's autobiography. In reality it was nothing of the kind, and should have been called not \"Gibbon's Autobiography\" but \"Selections from the Autobiographical Remains of Edward Gibbon\".\n20th and 21st centuries critical opinions of Sheffield's work as an editor have diverged widely. In 1913 the \"Cambridge History of English Literature\" called it \"extraordinarily skillful\", and in the 1960s Anthony Burgess wrote of \"Six holograph sketches, out of which Lord Sheffield stitched not a patchwork but a tasteful and well-fitting suit of clothes.\" The academic W. B. Carnochan called Sheffield's editing \"brilliant though high-handed\", and pointed out that \nWere it not for his unremitting labors, we would not think of Gibbon as having written a great autobiography; rather, we would think of him as a historian who tried to write an autobiography but failed.\nThe academic David Womersley has written in the \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" that Sheffield did the job \"With equal judgement, freedom, and shrewdness\", but elsewhere he has conceded that \"From our standpoint…Sheffield's handling of Gibbon’s manuscript was scandalous.\". This last judgement has been endorsed by the historian Glen Bowersock, while the Gibbon scholar Jane Elizabeth Norton said that \"By all the standards of scholarship, Lord Sheffield's conduct was deplorable.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10072247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10072247", "title": "Middle Eastern hip hop", "text": "Middle Eastern hip hop\n\nMiddle Eastern hip hop is hip hop music and culture originating in the Middle East. It is performed in many languages such as English, local Arabic dialects, Hebrew, Persian, and French. It is highly influenced by American hip hop.\n\nFor Arab rap in all forms from the Middle East, the Persian Gulf and North Africa and international Arab rap acts, refer to Arab hip hop section\n"}
{"id": "455038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455038", "title": "Moai", "text": "Moai\n\nMoai , or mo‘ai, are monolithic human figures carved by the Rapa Nui people on Easter Island in eastern Polynesia between the years 1250 and 1500. Nearly half are still at Rano Raraku, the main moai quarry, but hundreds were transported from there and set on stone platforms called ahu around the island's perimeter. Almost all moai have overly large heads three-eighths the size of the whole statue. The moai are chiefly the living faces (\"aringa ora\") of deified ancestors (\"aringa ora ata tepuna\"). The statues still gazed inland across their clan lands when Europeans first visited the island in 1722, but all of them had fallen by the latter part of the 19th century.\n\nThe production and transportation of the more than 900 statues are considered remarkable creative and physical feats. The tallest moai erected, called \"Paro\", was almost high and weighed 82 tonnes (90.4 short tons). The heaviest moai erected was a shorter but squatter moai at Ahu Tongariki, weighing 86 tonnes. One unfinished sculpture, if completed, would have been approximately tall, with a weight of about 270 tonnes. The moai were toppled in the late 18th and early 19th centuries, possibly as a result of European contact or internecine tribal wars.\n\nThe moai are monolithic statues, their minimalist style related to forms found throughout Polynesia. Moai are carved in relatively flat planes, the faces bearing proud but enigmatic expressions. The human figures would be outlined in the rock wall first, then chipped away until only the image was left. The over-large heads (a three-to-five ratio between the head and the trunk, a sculptural trait that demonstrates the Polynesian belief in the sanctity of the chiefly head) have heavy brows and elongated noses with a distinctive fish-hook-shaped curl of the nostrils. The lips protrude in a thin pout. Like the nose, the ears are elongated and oblong in form. The jaw lines stand out against the truncated neck. The torsos are heavy, and, sometimes, the clavicles are subtly outlined in stone. The arms are carved in bas relief and rest against the body in various positions, hands and long slender fingers resting along the crests of the hips, meeting at the hami (loincloth), with the thumbs sometimes pointing towards the navel. Generally, the anatomical features of the backs are not detailed, but sometimes bear a ring and girdle motif on the buttocks and lower back. Except for one kneeling moai, the statues do not have clearly visible legs.\nThough moai are whole-body statues, they are erroneously referred to as \"Easter Island heads\" in some popular literature. This is partly because of the disproportionate size of most moai heads, and partly because many of the iconic images for the island showing upright moai are the statues on the slopes of Rano Raraku, many of which are buried to their shoulders. Some of the \"heads\" at Rano Raraku have been excavated and their bodies seen, and observed to have markings that had been protected from erosion by their burial.\n\nThe average height of the moai is about , with the average width at the base around . These massive creations usually weigh around 12.5 tonnes (13.8 tons) each.\n\nAll but 53 of the more than 900 moai known to date were carved from tuff (a compressed volcanic ash) from Rano Raraku, where 394 moai in varying states of completion are still visible today. There are also 13 moai carved from basalt, 22 from trachyte and 17 from fragile red scoria. At the end of carving, the builders would rub the statue with pumice.\n\nEaster Island statues are known for their large, broad noses and strong chins, along with rectangle-shaped ears and deep eye slits. Their bodies are normally squatting, with their arms resting in different positions and are without legs. The majority of the ahu are found along the coast and face inland towards the community. There are some inland ahu such as Ahu Akivi. These moai face the community but given the small size of the island, also appear to face the coast.\n\nIn 1979, Sergio Rapu Haoa and a team of archaeologists discovered that the hemispherical or deep elliptical eye sockets were designed to hold coral eyes with either black obsidian or red scoria pupils. The discovery was made by collecting and reassembling broken fragments of white coral that were found at the various sites. Subsequently, previously uncategorized finds in the Easter Island museum were re-examined and recategorized as eye fragments. It is thought that the moai with carved eye sockets were probably allocated to the ahu and ceremonial sites, suggesting that a selective Rapa Nui hierarchy was attributed to the moai design until its demise with the advent of the Birdman religion, Tangata Manu.\n\nMany archaeologists suggest that \"[the] statues were thus symbols of authority and power, both religious and political. But they were not only symbols. To the people who erected and used them, they were actual repositories of sacred spirit. Carved stone and wooden objects in ancient Polynesian religions, when properly fashioned and ritually prepared, were believed to be charged by a magical spiritual essence called mana.\"\nArchaeologists believe that the statues were a representation of the ancient Polynesians' ancestors. The moai statues face away from the ocean and towards the villages as if to watch over the people. The exception is the seven Ahu Akivi which face out to sea to help travelers find the island. There is a legend that says there were seven men who waited for their king to arrive.\n\nThe more recent moai had \"pukao\" on their heads, which represent the topknot of the chieftains. According to local tradition, the mana was preserved in the hair. The pukao were carved out of red scoria, a very light rock from a quarry at Puna Pau. Red itself is considered a sacred color in Polynesia. The added pukao suggest a further status to the moai. \n\nWhen first carved, the surface of the moai was polished smooth by rubbing with pumice. Unfortunately, the easily worked tuff from which most moai were carved is also easily eroded, and, today, the best place to see the surface detail is on the few moai carved from basalt or in photographs and other archaeological records of moai surfaces protected by burials.\n\nThose moai that are less eroded typically have designs carved on their backs and posteriors. The Routledge expedition of 1914 established a cultural link between these designs and the island's traditional tattooing, which had been repressed by missionaries a half-century earlier. Until modern DNA analysis of the islanders and their ancestors, this was key scientific evidence that the moai had been carved by the Rapa Nui and not by a separate group from South America.\n\nAt least some of the moai were painted; \"Hoa Hakananai'a\" was decorated with maroon and white paint until 1868, when it was removed from the island. It is now housed in the British Museum, London, but there are demands (2018) for its return to Rapa Nui.\n\nThe statues were carved by the Polynesian colonizers of the island, mostly between circa 1250 A.D. and 1500 A.D. In addition to representing deceased ancestors, the moai, once they were erected on ahu, may also have been regarded as the embodiment of powerful living or former chiefs and important lineage status symbols. Each moai presented a status: \"The larger the statue placed upon an ahu, the more mana the chief who commissioned it had.\" The competition for grandest statue was ever prevalent in the culture of the Easter Islanders. The proof stems from the varying sizes of moai.\n\nCompleted statues were moved to ahu mostly on the coast, then erected, sometimes with red stone cylinders (pukao) on their heads. Moai must have been extremely expensive to craft and transport; not only would the actual carving of each statue require effort and resources, but the finished product was then hauled to its final location and erected.\n\nThe quarries in Rano Raraku appear to have been abandoned abruptly, with a litter of stone tools and many completed moai outside the quarry awaiting transport and almost as many incomplete statues still \"in situ\" as were installed on ahu. In the nineteenth century, this led to conjecture that the island was the remnant of a sunken continent and that most completed moai were under the sea. That idea has long been debunked, and now it is understood that:\n\nIt is not known exactly which group in the communities were responsible for carving statues. Oral traditions suggest that the moai were either carved by a distinguished class of professional carvers who were comparable in status to high-ranking members of other Polynesian craft guilds, or, alternatively, by members of each clan. The oral histories show that the Rano Raraku quarry was subdivided into different territories for each clan.\n\nSince the island was largely treeless by the time the Europeans first visited, the movement of the statues was a mystery for a long time; pollen analysis has now established that the island was almost totally forested until 1200 A.D. The tree pollen disappeared from the record by 1650.\n\nIt is not known exactly how the moai were moved across the island. Earlier researchers assumed that the process almost certainly required human energy, ropes, and possibly wooden sledges (sleds) and/or rollers, as well as leveled tracks across the island (the Easter Island roads). Another theory suggests that the moai were placed on top of logs and were rolled to their destinations. If that theory is correct it would take 50-150 people to move the moai. The most recent study demonstrates from the evidence in the archaeological record that the statues were harnessed with ropes from two sides and made to \"walk\" by tilting them from side to side while pulling forward. They would also use a chant, whilst 'walking' the moai. Coordination and cohesion was essential, so they developed a chant in which the rhythm helped them pull at the precise moment necessary.\n\nOral histories recount how various people used divine power to command the statues to walk. The earliest accounts say a king named Tuu Ku Ihu moved them with the help of the god Makemake, while later stories tell of a woman who lived alone on the mountain ordering them about at her will. Scholars currently support the theory that the main method was that the moai were \"walked\" upright (some assume by a rocking process), as laying it prone on a sledge (the method used by the Easter Islanders to move stone in the 1860s) would have required an estimated 1500 people to move the largest moai that had been successfully erected. In 1998, Jo Anne Van Tilburg suggested fewer than half that number could do it by placing the sledge on lubricated rollers. In 1999, she supervised an experiment to move a nine-tonne moai. They attempted to load a replica on a sledge built in the shape of an \"A\" frame that was placed on rollers. A total of 60 people pulled on several ropes in two attempts to tow the moai. The first attempt failed when the rollers jammed up. The second attempt succeeded when they embedded tracks in the ground. This was on flat ground and used eucalyptus wood rather than the native palm trees.\nIn 1986, Pavel Pavel, Thor Heyerdahl and the Kon Tiki Museum experimented with a five-tonne moai and a nine-tonne moai. With a rope around the head of the statue and another around the base, using eight workers for the smaller statue and 16 for the larger, they \"walked\" the moai forward by swiveling and rocking it from side to side; however, the experiment was ended early due to damage to the statue bases from chipping. Despite the early end to the experiment, Thor Heyerdahl estimated that this method for a 20-tonne statue over Easter Island terrain would allow per day. Other scholars concluded that it was probably not the way the moai were moved due to the reported damage to the base caused by the \"shuffling\" motion.\n\nAround the same time, archaeologist Charles Love experimented with a 10-tonne replica. His first experiment found rocking the statue to walk it was too unstable over more than a few hundred yards. He then found that placing the statue upright on two sled runners atop log rollers, 25 men were able to move the statue in two minutes. In 2003, further research indicated this method could explain supposedly regularly spaced post holes (his research on this claim has not yet been published) where the statues were moved over rough ground. He suggested the holes contained upright posts on either side of the path so that as the statue passed between them, they were used as cantilevers for poles to help push the statue up a slope without the requirement of extra people pulling on the ropes and similarly to slow it on the downward slope. The poles could also act as a brake when needed.\n\nBased on detailed studies of the statues found along prehistoric roads, archaeologists Terry Hunt and Carl Lipo have shown that the pattern of breakage, form and position of statues is consistent with an \"upright\" hypothesis for transportation. Hunt and Lipo argue that when the statues were carved at a quarry, the sculptors left their bases wide and curved along the front edge. They showed that statues along the road have a center of mass that causes the statue to lean forward. As the statue tilts forward, it rocks sideways along its curved front edge and takes a \"step.\" Large flakes are seen broken off of the sides of the bases. They argue that once the statue was \"walked\" down the road and installed in the landscape, the wide and curved base was carved down. All of this evidence points to an upright transportation practice.\n\nRecent experimental recreations have proven that it is fully possible that the moai were literally walked from their quarries to their final positions by ingenious use of ropes. Teams of workers would have worked to rock the moai back and forth, creating the walking motion and holding the moai upright. If correct, it can be inferred that the fallen road moai were the result of the teams of balancers being unable to keep the statue upright, and it was presumably not possible to lift the statues again once knocked over. However, the debate continues.\n\nOriginally, Easter Islanders had a paramount chief or single leader. Through the years the power levels veered from sole chiefs to a warrior class, known as \"matatoa\". The therianthropic figure of a half bird and half man was the symbol of the matatoa; the distinct character connected the sacred site of Orongo. The new cult prompted battles of tribes over worship of ancestry. Creating the moai was one way the islanders would honor their ancestors; during the height of the birdman cult there is evidence which suggests that the construction of moai stopped.\n\n\"One of the most fascinating sights at Orongo are the hundreds of petroglyphs carved with birdman and Makemake images. Carved into solid basalt, they have resisted ages of harsh weather. It has been suggested that the images represent birdman competition winners. Over 480 birdman petroglyphs have been found on the island, mostly around Orongo.\" Orongo, the site of the cult's festivities, was a dangerous landscape which consisted of a \"narrow ridge between a 1,000 foot drop into the ocean on one side and a deep crater on the other\". Considered the sacred spot of Orongo, Mata Ngarau was the location where birdman priests prayed and chanted for a successful egg hunt. \"The purpose of the birdman contest was to obtain the first egg of the season from the offshore islet Motu Nui. Contestants descended the sheer cliffs of Orongo and swam to Motu Nui where they awaited the coming of the birds. Having procured an egg, the contestant swam back and presented it to his sponsor, who then was declared birdman for that year, an important status position.\"\n\nThese figures are much smaller than the better-known stone moai. They are made of wood and have a small, slender aspect, giving them a sad appearance. These figures are believed to have been made after the civilization on Rapa Nui began to collapse, which is why they seem to have a more emaciated appearance to them.\n\nAt some point after the 1722 Roggeveen visit, all of the moai that had been erected on ahus were toppled, with the last standing statues reported in 1838 by Abel Aubert Dupetit Thouars, and no upright statues by 1868, apart from the partially buried ones on the outer slopes of Rano Raraku.\n\nOral histories include one account of a clan pushing down a single moai in the night but others refer to the \"earth shaking\" and other indications that at least some of them fell down through earthquakes. Some of the moai toppled forward such that their faces were hidden and often fell in such a way that their necks broke; others fell off of the back of their platforms. Today, about 50 moai have been re-erected on their ahus or at museums elsewhere.\n\nThe Rapa Nui people were then devastated by the slave trade that began at the island in 1862. Within only a time span of one year the individuals that remained on the island were sick, injured, and lacking leadership. The survivors of the slave raids had new company from landing missionaries. The society was vulnerable and the converting process of Christianity did not take long. Native Easter Islanders lost their identity as first their style of clothing and soon their tattoos and body paint were banned by the new Christian proscriptions. The history of their ancestors was destroyed: artwork, buildings, sacred objects; leaving little record of the islanders' former lives. They were then subjected to forceful removal from their native lands and made to reside on a much smaller portion of the island while the rest was used for farming. \"Eventually all pure Rapa Nui blood died out. Annexation with Chile brought new influences, and today there are only a few individuals left with ties to the original population.\"\n\nEleven or more moai have been removed from the island and transported to locations around the world, including six out of the thirteen moai that were carved from basalt.\n\nFrom 1955 through 1978, an American archaeologist, William Mulloy, undertook extensive investigation of the production, transportation and erection of Easter Island's monumental statuary. Mulloy's Rapa Nui projects include the investigation of the Akivi-Vaiteka Complex and the physical restoration of Ahu Akivi (1960); the investigation and restoration of Ahu Ko Te Riku and Ahu Vai Uri and the Tahai Ceremonial Complex (1970); the investigation and restoration of two \"ahu\" at Hanga Kio'e (1972); the investigation and restoration of the ceremonial village at Orongo (1974) and numerous other archaeological surveys throughout the island.\n\nThe Rapa Nui National Park and the moai are included in the 1972 UN convention concerning the protection of the world's cultural and natural heritage and consequently on the 1994 list of UNESCO World Heritage sites.\n\nThe moai have been mapped by a number of groups over the years including efforts by Father Sebastian Englert and Chilean researchers. The EISP (Easter Island Statue Project) conducted research and documentation on many of the moai on Rapa Nui and the artifacts held in museums overseas. The purpose of the project is to understand the figures' original use, context, and meaning, with the results being provided to the Rapa Nui families and the island's public agencies that are responsible for conservation and preservation of the moai. Other studies include work by Britton Shepardson and Terry L. Hunt and Carl P. Lipo.\n\nIn 2008, a Finnish tourist chipped a piece off the ear of one moai. The tourist was fined $17,000 in damages and was banned from the island for three years.\n\nIn 2010, Moai was included as an emoji in Unicode version 6.0 under the code point codice_1 and is represented as such:\nIn operating systems that did not come with fonts that natively support all codepoints of Unicode 6.0 or greater, the Symbola font by George Douros is available, 'free for any use' as per Douros.\n\nThe official unicode name for the emoji is spelled \"Moyai\". This is the name of a statue near Shibuya Station in Tokyo, which is inspired by Moai from the Easter Island but looks distinct. This has caused inconsistent drawings to be adopted for this emoji by various companies with proprietary emoji images.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11850844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11850844", "title": "Muhammad Saleh Kamboh", "text": "Muhammad Saleh Kamboh\n\nMuhammad Saleh Kamboh () Lahori was a noted calligraphist and official biographer of Emperor Shah Jahan and the teacher of Mughal Emperor Aurangzeb. Though a widely read person, little is known of the life of Muhammad Saleh Kamboh other than the works he composed. He was son of Mir Abdu-lla, Mushkin Kalam, whose title shows him to also have been a fine writer. He is believed to be younger brother of \"Inayat-Allah Kamboh\" (Urdu: عنایت خان کمبوہ) and worked as a \"Shahi Dewan (Minister)\" with the governor of Lahore.\n\nMuhammad Saleh is best remembered for his work \"Amal-i Salih\", also referred to as \"Shah Jahan Namah\" (The History of Shah Jahan), which he completed in 1659–60 AD. \"Amal-i-Salih\" is an account of the life and reign of Shah Jahan. However, the work also includes information on Shah Jahan's predecessors (particularly Akbar and Jahangir) and a compendium of biographies of the Shaikhs, poets, and other notables who were contemporaries with Shah Jahan. It is considered to be one of the most important original sources of events during Shah Jahan's reign.\n\nMuhammad Saleh was known as a poet by the Persian title \"Kashfi\" and by Hindi \"Subhan\" and is also stated to be an accomplished Hindi singer.\n\nIn the list of \"mansabdars\", Muhammad Saleh Kamboh is put down as a commander of five hundred soldiers.\n\nIt is claimed by some accounts that Muhammad Saleh Kamboh served as a Mughal Admiral and unfortunately was killed while fighting alongside his fleet against the Ahoms at Pandu on Bengal-Assam border while helping General Abdus Salam, the Faujdar (infantry commander) of Hajo, during the tenure of Islam Khan Mashadi, the Mughal Governor of Bengal. The event referred to above is said to date 1636 AD, which is incorrect, since Muhammadd Saleh was very much alive and is known to have completed his \"Amal-i Salih\" in 1659/60 AD soon after Aurangzeb (Reign 1658 AD-1707 AD) became the emperor of India in 1658 AD. According to Naimur Rehman Farooqi, the work was completed in 1669 AD.\n\nIt is also stated that when Shaikh Makhdum was appointed imperial \"Sadr-us-Sadur\" (\"Chief Sadr\", \"Chief Administrator or Prime Minister\") after death of Sadr Sharif Khan during the reign of Aurangzeb, Muhammad Salih Kamboh was appointed \"Peshdast\" (deputy).\n\nThe date of Muhammad Saleh's death is not certain. S. M. Latif states on unspecified authority in his works that Muhammad Saleh Kamboh died in A. H. 1085 (1675 AD) which is accepted by some writers.\n\nA mosque known as Saleh Kamboh Mosque has been built with his name in Mochi Gate, Walled City of Lahore.\nHe is buried in Lahore, though his grave location is currently disputed by the owners of the property.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35594779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35594779", "title": "Mythos (journal)", "text": "Mythos (journal)\n\n\"Mythos: Rivista di Storia delle Religioni\" is an annual peer-reviewed academic journal published by Giuseppe Sciascia Editore on behalf of the University of Palermo. It was established in 1989 by Giuseppe Martorana, with a new series started in 2007. It reviews religious narrative and mythos in Italian, French, English, German, and Spanish. The current editors-in-chief are Nicola Cusumano (University of Palermo) and Corinne Bonnet (University of Toulouse).\n\n"}
{"id": "21736426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21736426", "title": "National Czech &amp; Slovak Museum &amp; Library", "text": "National Czech &amp; Slovak Museum &amp; Library\n\nThe National Czech & Slovak Museum & Library (NCSML) is a museum and library of Czech and Slovak history and culture located in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in the United States. Established in 1974, the museum and library moved to its present site in 1983. The museum and library was severely affected by the Iowa flood of 2008. In 2012, rebuilding and expansion efforts were completed and the NCSML reopened.\n\nIn 1974, several second and third-generation Czech Americans in the Cedar Rapids area founded the Czech Fine Arts Foundation to preserve their Czech heritage and culture. In 1978, the group's growing collection of artifacts and documents caused them to open a Czech Museum in a three-room house, where the museum attracted additional materials and volunteers. In 1981, the collections were moved to a new building on the museum's current site with the goal of permanent public display. In 1983, the group acquired a 19th-century immigrant home and moved it to its property, where it was restored and furnished in the style of the 1880s and 1890s.\n\nFrom 1983 onwards, the museum began to employ staff, and during the 1980s gained additional artifacts and financial contributions from Czech and Slovak Americans. The museum adopted its current name during this period. By the 1990s, the museum and library were outgrowing its space, and plans for a new facility began, with an architect creating plans for a new building. Fundraising for the new facility began during this time. On October 28, 1993, groundbreaking took place for the new building. On October 21, 1995, the building was dedicated, with U.S. President Bill Clinton, Czech President Václav Havel, and Slovakian President Michal Kováč presiding over the ceremony. Some 7,000 people attended the dedication event.\n\nOn May 24, 1997, the NCSML opened an international exhibit, \"A Thousand Years of Czech Culture: Riches from the National Museum in Prague,\" which centered on artifacts on loan from the National Museum in Prague. The museum stated that the exhibit attracted more than 30,000 visitors from around the U.S. and 22 countries. In 1998, a permanent exhibit, \"Homelands: The Story of the Czech and Slovak People,\" opened. In 1999, the museum hosted its history and culture conference for the first time.\n\nIn 2000, the museum underwent significant renovations and remodeling, including the addition of secure and climate-controlled storage facilities and a new venue for temporary exhibits, created by dividing the social/rental hall. In the same year, the library's collection doubled with the acquisition of the Slavic language collection from Benedictine University, and the museum and library began publishing \"Slovo\", a history and culture academic journal.\n\nIn subsequent years, the museum continued to grow its collections, membership, and events schedule. In 2001, the museum began planning to acquire additional property for a research and performing arts center, and began a fundraising campaign to build its endowment to $5 million by 2005. The NCSML stated that its membership in 2002 was above 1,900 people. In 2002, the museum and library opened an \"Kroje—Dress for the Dance of Life!,\" an exhibit on Kroje which ran until January 19, 2003. The museum also hosted the annual meetings of the Czech Glass Collectors Guild and the Czech-Slovak Genealogical Society International during this time.\n\nDuring the Iowa flood of 2008, the Cedar River overflowed its banks, flooding the museum and library with of water and causing severe damage to the exhibitions and contents. The damage was variously valued at $8 million or $9 million. The flood occurred just days before the museum was scheduled to reveal its choice among four proposals for a tripling in the size of the facility.\n\nMuseum staff were able to remove two trucks full of museum and library material before the flood. Fine art and folklore artifacts were prioritized for removal. Two exhibits were destroyed in the flood, including one about the Prague Spring in 1968 and the subsequent invasion of Czechoslovakia. In the immediate aftermath of the flood, artifacts were removed from the building's upper levels, which were not reached by floodwaters, and flood-damaged items were removed for restoration efforts, with some library books sent to Chicago to be freeze-dried and restored. The Chicago Conservation Center assisted by providing expert help in efforts to save textiles and linens.\n\nAt the time of the 2008 flood the museum was visited by about 35,000 people each year, with an annual economic impact of $1 million. The library held an estimated 30,000 Slovak and Slovak-related items in its library, two-thirds of which are stored off-site and were not affected by flood damage. Around 40 percent of the museum's artifacts are Slovak. The museum holds the largest collection of kroje outside Slovakia and the Czech Republic, with the oldest pieces dating to the 16th century.\n\nDuring the flood the NCSML's entire collection of 5,000 phonograph records, documenting 80 years of recorded Czech and Slovak music, were damaged. The University of Iowa Libraries Preservation Department were able to repair and restore most of the records.\n\nAfter the flood, a temporary facility was opened at Lindale Mall. The museum's temporary home was moved in April 2010 to the Kosek Building at 87 Sixteenth Avenue SW in Cedar Rapids, built in 1910. The interim space, including a gallery and museum gift shop, was opened. An exhibition, \"Rising Above: The Story of the People and the Flood\" also opened at that time. The exhibit focuses on the 2008 flood, comparing it to the previous floods of 1929 and 1993, and includes materials from the NCSML's Flood Oral History Project, an oral history project of the personal accounts of flood victims. The exhibit tells the story of the flood in conjunction with the history of Cedar Rapids, the Czech Village, and New Bohemia. The Kosek Building continues to be a part of the Museum and Library after the main building was rebuilt.\n\nThe Iowa General Assembly set aside $10 million to help the museum and library rebuild. In October 2008 the Czech ambassador presented a $405,000 donation from the Czech Republic for reconstruction efforts.\n\nThe flood damage caused the museum property to have difficulty obtaining insurance and exhibitions with materials on loan from other museums because of a fear of another flood. The museum decided to move and expand the museum to higher ground, rather than demolishing the original building, because the cost to move the 15-year-old building was $713,000, compared to an estimated $2 million to demolish and rebuild the structure. Despite the flood damage, the building remained structurally sound. The museum also stated that it wanted to preserve the original building for its historic value and avoid creating unnecessary landfill waste.\n\nThe museum was moved from the original site and was placed on an elevated foundation. A groundbreaking ceremony was held on December 15, 2010. On June 8–9, 2011, the Museum and Library, weighing around 1,500 tons (1,400 metric tons) and constructed of a wood frame with brick veneer, was moved to the new site. The building new site is higher than the previous site and above the 2008 flood level. The museum dubbed the event \"A Monumental Move\" and set up a webcam for viewers to watch the move; the City of Cedar Rapids also shut down 16th Avenue SW, including the Bridge of Lions, so local residents could watch. The museum's contractor for the job, Jeremy Patterson Structural Moving, stated that \"it's apparently the largest museum ever relocated for flood hazard mitigation, and probably the only museum ever elevated.\"\n\nIn addition to moving the first building to a new location, the rebuilt facility is significantly expanded, to a total of including \"larger permanent and temporary exhibition galleries, an expanded research library, educational programming space, a new museum store, collection storage, and work space.\" The new facility will be LEED-certified and will include a new library and archives, 51-seat theater, three galleries, public and educational programming space for up to 400 people, underground parking for 65 vehicles, a terrace with a view of the Cedar River and Cedar Rapids skyline, and an outdoor amphitheater. The rebuilding and recovery costs are estimated to be $25 million.\n\nThe NCSML was accredited by the American Alliance of Museums in November 2008. In 2010, the museum launched a capital campaign with a goal of raising $25 million to establish the Kosek Building as part of the NCSML's permanent collection, renovate The Immigrant Home and the Babi Buresh Center historic homes for tour, design and install a new permanent exhibition, recovery money spent by the museum and library on disaster cleanup; and grow the endowment to pay for operating expenses. The NCSML stated that following the museum's reopening, an estimated 54,000 visitors will visit annually and the economic impact on the Cedar Rapids area will be over $1.1 million.\n"}
{"id": "469482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469482", "title": "Old Master", "text": "Old Master\n\nIn art history, \"Old Master\" (or \"old master\") refers to any painter of skill who worked in Europe before about 1800, or a painting by such an artist. An \"old master print\" is an original print (for example an engraving or etching) made by an artist in the same period. The term \"old master drawing\" is used in the same way.\n\nIn theory, \"Old Master\" applies only to artists who were fully trained, were Masters of their local artists' guild, and worked independently, but in practice, paintings produced by pupils or workshops are often included in the scope of the term. Therefore, beyond a certain level of competence, date rather than quality is the criterion for using the term.\n\nIn the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the term was often understood as having a starting date of perhaps 1450 or 1470; paintings made before that were \"primitives\", but this distinction is no longer made. The \"Oxford English Dictionary\" defines the term as \"A pre-eminent artist of the period before the modern; esp. a pre-eminent western European painter of the 13th to 18th centuries.\" The first quotation given is from 1696, in the diary of John Evelyn: \"My L: Pembroke..shewed me divers rare Pictures of very many of the old & best Masters, especially that of M: Angelo..,& a large booke of the best drawings of the old Masters.\" The term is also used to refer to a painting or sculpture made by an Old Master, a usage datable to 1824. There are comparable terms in Dutch, French and German; the Dutch may have been the first to make use of such a term, in the 18th century, when \"oude meester\" mostly meant painters of the Dutch Golden Age of the previous century. \"Les Maitres d'autrefois\" of 1876 by Eugene Fromentin may have helped to popularize the concept, although \"vieux maitres\" is also used in French. The famous collection in Dresden at the Gemäldegalerie Alte Meister is one of the few museums to include the term in its actual name, although many more use it in the title of departments or sections. The collection in the Dresden museum essentially stops at the Baroque period.\n\nThe end date is necessarily vague – for example, Goya (1746–1828) is certainly an Old Master, though he was still painting and printmaking at his death in 1828. The term might also be used for John Constable (1776–1837) or Eugène Delacroix (1798–1868), but usually is not.\n\nThe term tends to be avoided by art historians as too vague, especially when discussing paintings, although the terms \"Old Master Prints\" and \"Old Master drawings\" are still used. It remains current in the art trade. Auction houses still usually divide their sales between, for example, \"Old Master Paintings\", \"Nineteenth-century paintings\" and \"Modern paintings\". Christie's defines the term as ranging \"from the 14th to the early 19th century\".\n\nArtists, most often from early periods, whose hand has been identified by art historians, but to whom no identity can be confidently attached, are often given names by art historians such as \"Master E.S.\" (from his monogram), \"Master of Flémalle\" (from a previous location of a work), \"Master of Mary of Burgundy\" (from a patron), \"Master of Latin 757\" (from the shelf mark of a manuscript he illuminated), \"Master of the Brunswick Diptych\" or \"Master of Schloss Lichtenstein\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5667767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5667767", "title": "Oxford English Corpus", "text": "Oxford English Corpus\n\nThe Oxford English Corpus is a text corpus of 21st century English, used by the makers of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" and by Oxford University Press's language research programme. It is the largest corpus of its kind, containing nearly 2.1 billion words.\nIt includes language from the UK, the United States, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, the Caribbean, Canada, India, Singapore and South Africa. The text is mainly collected from web pages; some printed texts, such as academic journals, have been collected to supplement particular subject areas. The sources are writings of all sorts, from \"literary novels and specialist journals to everyday newspapers and magazines and from Hansard to the language of blogs, emails, and social media\". This may be contrasted with similar databases that sample only a specific kind of writing. The corpus is generally available only to researchers at Oxford University Press, but other researchers who can demonstrate a strong need may apply for access.\n\nThe digital version of the Oxford English Corpus is formatted in XML and usually analysed with Sketch Engine software.\n\nEach document in the OE Corpus is accompanied by metadata naming:\n\n"}
{"id": "57441565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57441565", "title": "Oztoticpac Lands Map of Texcoco", "text": "Oztoticpac Lands Map of Texcoco\n\nThe Oztoticpac Lands Map of Texcoco is a pictorial Aztec codex on native paper (\"amatl\") from Texcoco ca. 1540. It is held by the manuscript division of the Library of Congress, measuring and now on display in the Library of Congress as part of its permanent exhibition \"Exploring the Early Americas\". The contents are both pictorial and alphabetic text in Nahuatl in red and black ink. The glosses indicate it deals with lands that Texcocan lord Ixtlilxochitl I may have given to Don Carlos Ometochtzin Chichimecatecotl of Texcoco, a son of Nezahualpilli, and litigation over the lands' ownership. Don Carlos was tried and executed by Bishop Juan de Zumárraga under his inquisitorial powers in 1539. The Oztoticpac Lands Map was likely created between 1540 and 1544, perhaps commissioned by Antonio Pimentel Tlahuilotzin, governor of Texcoco, as part of an effort to reclaim land held by Don Carlos. The map shows a palace held by Don Carlos in Oztoticpac. In the schematic cadastrals of 75 pieces of land, the map shows Nahua families who farmed the land as well as the measurements of the plots. A number of these properties were rented by tenants with standard glyphic representations of the rents. The names of the pieces of land are indicated with toponymic glyphs. The Oztoticpac Lands Map has been linked to another indigenous pictorial, the Humboldt Fragment VI held by the Staatsbibliothek of Berlin.\n\nA unique, interesting, and important feature of the map is depictions of fruit trees, both European and local, many of them grafted. Pears, quince, apple, pomegranates, peaches, and grapevines are shown Income from the sale of fruit would have increased the value of the property. The importation of European fruit trees is part of the Columbian Exchange, but what is especially significant is not only that the trees were integrated into local horticulture, but also that the trees were grafted, a practice to increase the health and yield of the plants. There was also a lawsuit by one Pedro de Vergara against the Holy Office of the Inquisition over trees owned by the late Don Carlos, who was executed following his Inquisition trial in 1539.\n\nScholars have grappled with the size of plots of land depicted. Cline created a chart with units of measurement, but was cautious about calculating the size of plots, since it was unclear what unit of measure was being used. Others also grappled with the problem of translating Nahua glyphs for units of measure in the OLM to modern measurements to calculate plot size. In 1991, H.R. Harvey published his argument that there were two different units of measurement depicted in the OLM, and made calculations based on his knowledge of Aztec arithmetic. Other scholars have continued to study the OLM's paleography.\n\nThe importance of the OLM and its densely packed information on a relatively small map has prompted scholars from its first discovery to enlarge sections of the map so that the details can be seen. This is now possible digitally at the Library of Congress website.\n\nThe Library of Congress considers the map one of the gems of its collection and in April 2018 hosted a webinar, now archived along with the transcript, focusing on it.\n"}
{"id": "24622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24622", "title": "Pacta sunt servanda", "text": "Pacta sunt servanda\n\nPacta sunt servanda (Latin for \"agreements must be kept\"), a brocard, is a basic principle of civil law, canon law, and international law.\n\nIn its most common sense, the principle refers to private contracts, stressing that contained clauses are law between the parties, and implies that nonfulfillment of respective obligations is a breach of the pact.\nIn civil law jurisdictions this principle is related to the general principle of correct behavior in commercial practice – including the assumption of \"good faith\" – is a requirement for the efficacy of the whole system, so the eventual disorder is sometimes punished by the law of some systems even without any direct penalty incurred by any of the parties. However, common law jurisdictions usually do not have the principle of good faith in commercial contracts, therefore it is inappropriate to state that pacta sunt servanda includes the principle of good faith.\nWith reference to international agreements, \"every treaty in force is binding upon the parties to it and must be performed by them in good faith.\" \"Pacta sunt servanda\" is related to good faith, while pacta sunt servanda does not equate with good faith . This entitles states to require that obligations be respected and to rely upon the obligations being respected. This good faith basis of treaties implies that a party to the treaty cannot invoke provisions of its municipal (domestic) law as justification for a failure to perform. However, with regards to the Vienna Convention and the UNIDROIT Principles it should be kept in mind that these are heavily influenced by civil law jurisdictions. To derive from these sources that pacta sunt servanda includes the principle of good faith is therefore incorrect.\n\nThe only limit to \"pacta sunt servanda\" are the peremptory norms of general international law, called \"jus cogens\" (compelling law). The legal principle \"clausula rebus sic stantibus\", part of customary international law, also allows for treaty obligations to be unfulfilled due to a compelling change in circumstances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11228570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11228570", "title": "Palstave", "text": "Palstave\n\nA palstave is a type of early bronze axe. It was common in the middle Bronze Age in northern, western and south-western Europe. In the technical sense, although precise definitions differ, an axe is generally deemed to be a palstave if it is hafted by means of a forked wooden handle kept in place with high, cast flanges and stop bar. The axe should be much thicker on the blade side of the stop bar than the hafting side (Schmidt and Burgess 1981, 115). In these respects, it is very close, but distinct from, earlier 'flanged axes'. Palstaves were cast in bivalve moulds made of clay, stone or bronze.\nThe archaeologist John Evans (1881, 72) popularized the term 'palstave' in English following Danish archaeologists who borrowed the term from . Confusingly, a paalstab is not an axe, but a digging tool. However, the term had become so common with Scandinavian and German archaeologists that Evans thought it best to follow suit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3192911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3192911", "title": "Preaching cross", "text": "Preaching cross\n\nA preaching cross is a Christian cross sometimes surmounting a pulpit, which is erected outdoors to designate a preaching place.\n\nIn Britain and Ireland, many free-standing upright crosses – or high crosses – were erected. Some of these crosses bear figurative or decorative carvings, or inscriptions in runes. There are surviving free-standing crosses in Cornwall and Wales, in the island of Iona and in the Hebrides, as well as those in Ireland. Other stone crosses are found in Lancashire, Cumbria and the Scottish Borders, some of these in the Anglo-Saxon cross making tradition, like the famous Ruthwell Cross. Whether these were especially associated with preaching is uncertain. Later market crosses were generally not, although all sorts of public announcements, no doubt sometimes including preaching, took place beside them. \n\n"}
{"id": "34793831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34793831", "title": "Princeton University East Asian Studies Department", "text": "Princeton University East Asian Studies Department\n\nThe East Asian Studies Department at Princeton University originally began as the Department of Oriental Languages and Literature (also later known as the Department of Oriental Studies) in 1927. Both the graduate Semitic and Indo-European Philology programs presented an increasing need for an Asian studies curriculum that could not be addressed by these departments. The Department of Oriental Languages and Literature was formed in response to this growing need. In 1937, an undergraduate program also began to take shape, beginning with courses in Chinese art and Far Eastern politics. World War II hindered the development of the Asian language curriculum until 1956 when Frederick W. Mote, a graduate of the Department of Oriental Studies, began regular work in Chinese.\n\nIn 1960, the Department of Oriental Languages and Literature expanded to include Japanese language and literature courses. Marius Jansen was appointed as the head of the Japanese program. During this time, an experimental Korean program was offered, which included studies in language, history, and politics. However, this program proved unsuccessful, and another Korean program would not be instituted until 1993. In 1969, the Department of Oriental Studies received independent status and was renamed the East Asian Studies Department (the other component forming the Department of Near Eastern Studies).\n\nThe East Asian Studies Department cooperates with the Department of Art and Archaeology to offer a doctoral program in Chinese or Japanese art and archaeology.\n\nThe Korean program officially began offering courses in 1993. The four courses offered were Elementary Korean I and II and Intermediate Korean I and II. These subjects were taught by Professor Gwee-sook Kim and Professor Bong Choi. Since then, the Korean language program has been growing steadily to include a greater diversity of classes for students to choose from. Since the spring of 2011, students could select from eight courses including Advanced Korean I and II, Contemporary Korean Language and Culture, and 4th year Korean. The Korean language department welcomes all students who have an interest in Korean language and culture. Students are placed into the appropriate class based on level of proficiency as determined by placement tests. For those who wish to continue Korean studies in Korea either during the school year or after graduation, there are study abroad relationships and scholarships available at the South Korean institutions of Yonsei University, Sogang University, and Seoul National University.\n\n"}
{"id": "18709372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18709372", "title": "Richmond Boys Choir", "text": "Richmond Boys Choir\n\nRichmond Boys Choir (or RBC) is a non-profit organization whose mission is \"building a richer humanity for male youth through personal, academic and musical excellence.\" The organization, which has been nationally recognized on numerous occasions, is headquartered in Richmond, Virginia, in the United States. RBC is tax-exempt and remains totally funded by donations, sponsorships and federal and state grants.\n\nThe Richmond Boys Choir was founded in 1996 in Richmond, Virginia, as a collaboration between Theatre IV and the Boys & Girls Club of Richmond. In the fall of 1996 the RBC conducted its first citywide auditions. As a result approximately 25 boys were chosen for membership. By 1997 RBC became an independent, non-profit 501(c)3. Before long the choir was recognized by the mayor as \"Richmond's Ambassadors' of Song\".\n\nMission statement:\n\nBuilding a richer humanity for male youth through personal, academic and musical excellence.\n\nCore beliefs:\n\nThe Richmond Boys Choir seeks to provide a quality alternative for urban youth in Richmond by creating a positive avenue that cultivates personal development and establishes a foundation of academic and social success.\n\nThe choir is in its 20th season and regularly performs in the community of Richmond and on tour throughout the United States. Tours have included performances in Kansas City, Kansas, Baltimore, Maryland, Washington, D.C., Fayetteville, North Carolina, New York City, New York and Panama City, Panama, among others. The choir has also appeared on the nationally syndicated program \"The Today Show\". In 2007, the choir was named a finalist in the National Endowment for the Arts \"Coming Up Taller Awards\". The August 2015 edition of Richmond Magazine names the Richmond Boys Choir the city's best youth choir.\n\n"}
{"id": "16940680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16940680", "title": "Silesian Walls", "text": "Silesian Walls\n\nThe Silesian Walls (, ) are a line of three (or sometimes fewer) parallel earthen ramparts and ditches that run through Lower Silesia in Poland, by the towns Szprotawa and Kożuchów. The walls are about 2.5 metres tall and, at their widest, 47 metres. They run for about 30 kilometres. It is hypothesized by Maciej Boryna of the Muzeum Ziemi Szprotawskiej that the Silesia Walls were the southwest border of the Duchy of Głogów and built in 1413-1467. It is possible that rather than being military in nature the walls were designed as a type of \"landwehr\" to reduce smuggling. \n\n"}
{"id": "35157384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35157384", "title": "Situational crisis communication theory", "text": "Situational crisis communication theory\n\nSituational Crisis Communication Theory (SCCT, 2007), posited by W. Timothy Coombs is a theory in the field of crisis communication. It suggests that crisis managers should match strategic crisis responses to the level of crisis responsibility and reputational threat posed by a crisis. Evaluating the crisis type, crisis history and prior relationship reputation will help crisis managers predict the level of reputational threat of an organization and how that organization’s publics will perceive the crisis and attribute crisis responsibility. Thus SCCT can be applied in an organization's crisis management.\n\nCoombs created his experimentally based SCCT to give communicators scientific evidence to guide their decisions, essentially stating that the actions an organization takes post-crisis depends on the crisis situation. \"SCCT identifies how key facets of the crisis situation influence attributions about the crisis and the reputations held by stakeholders. In turn, understanding how stakeholders will respond to the crisis informs the post-crisis communication\".\n\nCoombs would later expand his work with SCCT through reflections of meta-analysis.\n\nWith empirical evidence to support his theory, Coombs provided a summary of crisis response strategy guidelines for crisis managers, given here in Table 1. SCCT provides crisis managers with an evidence-based guide to assessing and responding to crises, allowing them to make informed, strategic, and beneficial decisions. \nThe roots for SCCT can be found in Attribution Theory. Attribution Theory holds that people constantly look to find causes, or make attributions, for different events, especially if those events are particularly negative or unexpected. People will attribute responsibility for the event and react emotionally to that event. In the case of organizations, attributions of causality elicit emotional reactions from stakeholders, especially negative emotions if the organization is attributed as the cause for a crisis. These negative emotions, like anger, affect stakeholders’ future interactions with the organization, changing behaviors like purchases and word-of-mouth recommendations. \nAttribution Theory provided one of the first links between crisis situations and crisis responses. Attributions of responsibility that shape strategic crisis responses formed the foundation for SCCT. Coombs built upon Attribution Theory, using it as a base to predict the severity of potential reputational harm—or reputational threat—a crisis may bring to an organization and, using that prediction, guide communication response decisions to minimize damage.\n\nCoombs draws on William Benoit's image restoration theory in his conceptualization of responsibility and reputational threat, stating that perception is fundamental to assessments of both components. If the audience perceives that the organization is at fault, a reputational threat is put into existence and the organization is held responsible.\n\nSCCT suggests that the key to determining the most effective strategic crisis response is understanding the crisis situation and the amount of reputational threat being posed by the crisis. Reputational threat is how much damage a crisis could inflict on an organization if no action is taken to respond to it. Reputational threat is influenced by three elements: (1) initial crisis responsibility, (2) crisis history and (3) prior relational reputation.\n\nInitial crisis responsibility is how much the organization’s stakeholders attribute the crisis to the organization; how responsible the key publics hold the organization itself for the crisis. In assessing the level of reputational threat facing an organization, crisis managers must first determine the type of crisis facing the organization.\n\nCoombs has identified three \"crisis clusters,\" or types of crises, in his SCCT research: the victim cluster, the accidental cluster, and the intentional cluster. Table 2 outlines these crisis clusters. In the victim cluster, the organization is not attributed as the cause of the crisis; rather, the organization is viewed as a victim. In the accidental cluster, the organization has been nominally attributed as the cause of the crisis, but the situation is generally viewed by stakeholders as being unintentional or simply accidental. In the intentional cluster, the organization is given all or most of the attributions for the crisis and shoulders the responsibility. In this case the crisis is considered deliberate.\n\nOne example where SCCT was used was the lockout that began within the National Hockey League in September 2012.\n\nOnce it is determined which type of crisis, or which cluster, the organization’s situation falls under, managers can predict how much attribution will be placed on the organization and how much reputational threat it is facing. In fact, Coombs’ own prior research showed that crisis responsibility and organizational reputation are negatively related.\n\nAnother element that threatens an organization's reputation is its history of crisis, whether it has faced similar crises in the past. Within this context, how well an organization has treated its stakeholders in the past—its prior relational reputation—also plays a part in assessing reputational threat. These two elements are involved in the second step crisis managers must take in evaluating the reputational threat facing the organization: if either of these elements exist within the organization, it will intensify attributions of the organization and increase the level of reputational threat. If an organization has a history of facing crises or a poor history of dealing with its stakeholders, attributions of crisis responsibility and the level of reputational threat are greater.\n\nBecause of crisis responsibility and reputational threat, crises can effect changes in emotions, and as a result, behaviors. If a person perceives an organization to have a high level of crisis responsibility, he or she is more likely to have feelings of anger toward the organization. Conversely, lower levels of crisis responsibility can evoke feelings of sympathy. Both of these feelings can affect the behaviors of the person toward the organization, whether that person will act positively or negatively toward the organization.\n\nOnce the levels of crisis responsibility and reputational threat have been determined, SCCT provides crisis managers with a theoretical base to their strategic crisis response. SCCT’s list for responding to crises assumes that the organization has accepted some level of responsibility for the crisis. Coombs found that the primary responses to crises in SCCT form three groups: deny, diminish, and rebuild. The SCCT list of crisis response strategies is shown in Table 3.\n\nEach of these strategies helps the organization get its side of the story into the media. After all how the crisis is framed in the media will determine how the organization’s publics view the situation. The media’s frames become the stakeholders’ frames. The \"deny\" strategies help establish a crisis frame and sever any perceived connection between the organization and the crisis. If the organization is not involved, or if the crisis is a rumor the organization can dispel, and stakeholders and the media accept that there is no crisis, no reputational harm will be done.\n\n\"Diminish\" crisis responses attempt to assure the organization’s publics that the crisis is not as bad as it seems or that the organization had nothing to do with the situation. These strategies help lessen the connection between the organization and the crisis and help the organization’s publics see the crisis in a less negative light. However, these strategies must be reinforced with credible evidence. If conflicting crisis frames are presented in the media, the organization’s publics will adopt whichever frame comes from the most credible source. \"Rebuild\" strategies help change perceptions of an organization during a crisis by offering real or symbolic forms of aid to victims and asking their forgiveness. These strategies attempt to take the focus off the crisis by taking positive action.\n\nA secondary type of responses, \"bolstering\", attempts to increase positive reputational perceptions by presenting \"new, positive information about the organization and/or remind[ing] stakeholders of past good works by the organization\". This strategy can bolster goodwill and arouse feelings of sympathy toward the organization, but Coombs warns, should be used to supplement the primary responses, not as replacements.\nSCCT suggests that how an organization communicates with its publics—what it says—will affect its publics’ perceptions of the organization. Those perceptions can shape how an organization’s publics emotionally react to or behave toward to the organization. Therefore, the communication decisions crisis managers make in the wake of a crisis could have great consequences, either positive or negative. It is imperative that crisis managers act strategically to save the organization’s reputation. According to Coombs:\n\"Crisis response strategies have three objectives relative to protecting reputations: (1) shape attributions of the crisis, (2) change perceptions of the organization in crisis and (3) reduce the negative effect generated by the crisis.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "365485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=365485", "title": "Technical writer", "text": "Technical writer\n\nA technical writer is a professional information communicator whose task it is to transfer information (knowledge) between two or more parties, through any medium that best facilitates the transfer and comprehension of the information. Technical writers research and create information through a variety of delivery mediums (electronic, printed, audio-visual and even touch). Example types of information include online help, manuals, white papers, design specifications, project plans, software test plans, etc. With the rise of e-learning, technical writers are increasingly becoming involved with creating online training material.\n\nAccording to the Society for Technical Communication (STC): In other words, technical writers take advanced technical concepts and communicate them as clearly, accurately, and comprehensively as possible to their intended audience, ensuring that the work is accessible to its users.\n\nKurt Vonnegut described technical writers as:\n\nEngineers, scientists, and other professionals may also be involved in technical writing (developmental editing, proofreading, etc), but are more likely to employ professional technical writers to develop, edit and format material, and advise the best means of information delivery to their audiences.\n\nAccording to the Society for Technical Communication (STC), the professions of technical communication and technical writing were first referenced around World War II, when technical documents became a necessity for military purposes. The job title emerged in the US during World War II, although it wasn't until 1951 that the first \"Help Wanted: Technical Writer\" ad was published. In fact, the title \"Technical Writer\" wasn't added to the US Bureau of Labor Statistic's Occupational Employment Handbook until 2010. During the 1940s and 50s, technical communicators and writers were hired to produce documentation for the military, often including detailed instructions on new weaponry. Other technical communicators and writers were involved in developing documentation for new technologies that were developed around this time. According to O'Hara: \n\nIn the beginning of the profession, most technical writers worked in an office environment with a team of other writers. Like technical writers today, they conducted primary research and met with subject matter experts to ensure that their information was accurate. During World War II, one of the most important characteristics for technical writers was their ability to follow stringent government specifications for documents. After the war, the rise of new technology, such as the computer, allowed technical writers to work in other areas, producing \"user manuals, quick reference guides, hardware installation manuals, and cheat sheets.\" During the time period after the war (1953-1961), technical communicators (including technical writers) became interested in \"professionalizing\" their field. According to Malone, technical communicators/writers did so by creating professional organizations, cultivating a \"specialized body of knowledge\" for the profession, imposing ethical standards on technical communicators, initiating a conversation about certifying practitioners in the field, and working to accredit education programs in the field.\n\nThe profession has continued to grow-- according to O'Hara, the writing/editing profession, including technical writers, experienced a 22% increase in positions between the years 1994 and 2005. Modern day technical writers work in a variety of contexts. Many technical writers work remotely using VPN or communicate with their team via online portals such as Skype or Zoom. Other technical writers work in an office, but share content with their team through complex content management systems that store documents online. Technical writers may work on government reports, internal documentation, instructions for technical equipment, embedded help within software or systems, or other technical documents. As technology continues to advance, the array of possibilities for technical writers will continue to expand. Many technical writers are responsible for creating technical documentation for mobile applications or help documentation built within mobile or web applications. They may be responsible for creating content that will only be viewed on a hand-held device; much of their work will never be published in a printed booklet like technical documentation of the past.\n\nIn addition to solid research, copywriting, language, writing, and revision skills, a technical writer may have skills in:\n\nA technical writer may apply their skills in the production of non-technical content, for example, writing high-level consumer information. Usually, a technical writer is not a subject matter expert (SME), but interviews SMEs and conducts the research necessary to write and compile technically accurate content. Technical writers complete both primary and secondary research to fully understand the topic. \nProficient technical writers have the ability to create, assimilate, and convey technical material in a concise and effective manner. They may specialize in a particular area but must have a good understanding of the products they describe. For example, API writers primarily work on API documents, while other technical writers specialize in electronic commerce, manufacturing, scientific, or medical material.\n\nTechnical writers gather information from many sources. Their information sources are usually scattered throughout an organization, which can range from developers to marketing departments.\n\nAccording to Markel, good technical documents are measured by eight characteristics: \"honesty, clarity, accuracy, comprehensiveness, accessibility, conciseness, professional appearance, and correctness.\" Technical writers are focused on using their careful research to create effective documents that meet these eight characteristics.\n\nTo create effective technical documentation, the writer must analyze three elements that comprise the rhetorical situation of a particular project: audience, purpose, and context. These are followed by document design, which determines what the reader sees.\n\nTechnical writers strive to simplify complex concepts or processes to maximize reader comprehension. The final goal of a particular document is to help readers find what they need, understand what they find, and use what they understand appropriately. To reach this goal, technical writers must understand how their audiences use and read documentation. An audience analysis at the outset of a document project helps define what an audience for a particular document requires.\n\nWhen analyzing an audience the technical writer typically asks:\n\nAccurate audience analysis provides a set of guidelines that shape document content, design and presentation (online help system, interactive website, manual, etc.), and tone and knowledge level.\n\nA technical writer analyzes the purpose (or function) of a communication to understand what a document must accomplish. Determining if a communication aims to persuade readers to “think or act a certain way, enable them to perform a task, help them understand something, change their attitude,” etc., guides the technical writer on how to format their communication, and the kind of communication they choose (online help system, white paper, proposal, etc.).\n\nContext is the physical and temporal circumstances in which readers use communication—for example: at their office desks, in a manufacturing plant, during the slow summer months, or in the middle of a company crisis. Understanding the context of a situation tells the technical writer how readers use the communication. This knowledge significantly influences how the writer formats the communication. For example, if the document is a quick troubleshooting guide to the controls on a small watercraft, the writer may have the pages laminated to increase usable life.\n\nOnce the above information has been gathered, the document is designed for optimal readability and usability. According to one expert, technical writers use six design strategies to plan and create technical communication: arrangement, emphasis, clarity, conciseness, tone, and ethos.\n\nTechnical writers can have various job titles, including \"technical communicator,\" \"information developer\", \"technical content developer\" or \"technical documentation specialist\". In the United Kingdom and some other countries, a technical writer is often called a \"technical author\" or \"knowledge author\".\n\nTechnical writers normally possess a mixture of technical and writing abilities. They typically have a degree or certification in a technical field, but may have one in journalism, business, or other fields. Many technical writers switch from another field, such as journalism—or a technical field such as engineering or science, often after learning important additional skills through technical communications classes.\n\nTo create a technical document, a technical writer must understand the subject, purpose, and audience. They gather information by studying existing material, interviewing SMEs, and often actually using the product. They study the audience to learn their needs and technical understanding level.\n\nA technical publication's development life cycle typically consists of five phases, coordinated with the overall product development plan:\n\n\nThe document development life cycle typically consists of six phases (This changes organization to organization, how they are following).\nThis is similar to the software development life cycle.\n\nWell-written technical documents usually follow formal standards or guidelines. Technical documentation comes in many styles and formats, depending on the medium and subject area. Printed and online documentation may differ in various ways, but still adhere to largely identical guidelines for prose, information structure, and layout. Usually, technical writers follow formatting conventions described in a standard style guide. In the US, technical writers typically use The Associated Press Stylebook or the Chicago Manual of Style (CMS). Many companies have internal corporate style guides that cover specific corporate issues such as logo use, branding, and other aspects of corporate style. The Microsoft Manual of Style for Technical Publications is typical of these.\n\nEngineering projects, particularly defense or aerospace related projects, often follow national and international documentation standards—such as ATA100 for civil aircraft or S1000D for civil and defense platforms.\n\nTechnical writers often work as part of a writing or project development team. Typically, the writer finishes a draft and passes it to one or more SMEs who conduct a \"technical review\" to verify accuracy and completeness. Another writer or editor may perform an \"editorial review\" that checks conformance to styles, grammar, and readability. This person may request for clarification or make suggestions. In some cases the writer or others test the document on audience members to make \"usability\" improvements. A final production typically follows an inspection checklist to ensure the quality and uniformity of the published product.\n\nThere is no single standard career path for technical writers, but they may move into project management over other writers. A writer may advance to a senior technical writer position, handling complex projects or a small team of writers and editors. In larger groups, a documentation manager might handle multiple projects and teams.\n\nTechnical writers may also gain expertise in a particular technical domain and branch into related forms, such as software quality analysis or business analysis. A technical writer who becomes a subject matter expert in a field may transition from technical writing to work in that field. Technical writers commonly produce training for the technologies they document—including classroom guides and e-learning—and some transition to specialize as professional trainers and instructional designers.\n\nTechnical writers with expertise in writing skills can join printed media or electronic media companies, potentially providing an opportunity to make more money or improved working conditions.\n\nThe U.S Department of Labor expects technical writer employment to grow 11 percent from 2016 to 2026, slightly faster than the average for all occupations. They expect job opportunities, especially for applicants with technical skills, to be good. The BLS also noted that the expansion of \"scientific and technical products\" and the need for technical writers to work in \"Web-based product support\" will drive increasing demand. \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39190543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39190543", "title": "Tell Asmar Hoard", "text": "Tell Asmar Hoard\n\nThe Tell Asmar Hoard (Early Dynastic I-II, ca. 2900–2550 BC) are a collection of twelve statues unearthed in 1933 at Eshnunna (modern Tell Asmar) in the Diyala Governorate of Iraq. Despite subsequent finds at this site and others throughout the greater Mesopotamian area, they remain the definitive example of the abstract style of Early Dynastic temple sculpture (2900 BC–2350 BC).\n\nIn the late 1920s antique dealers in Baghdad were acquiring large quantities of unusual, high quality artifacts from the desert east of the Diyala River, just north of its confluence with the Tigris. In 1929 the Oriental Institute at the University of Chicago obtained a concession to excavate the area. James Henry Breasted (1865–1935), the founder of the institute, invited the Dutch Archeologist Henri Frankfort (1897–1954) to lead the expedition. Between 1930 and 1937 Frankfort and his team conducted extensive horizontal and vertical excavations on four mounds: Khafajah, Tell Asmar (ancient Eshnunna), Tell Agrab, and Ishchali. They uncovered temples, palaces, administrative buildings, and houses ranging in date from about 3100 to 1750 B.C. The hundreds of artifacts recovered from the stratified ruins of these ancient civic structures greatly enhanced understanding of Early Dynastic periodization.\n\nAmong the most well-known and best preserved objects are the twelve statues known collectively as the Tell Asmar Hoard. The hoard was found during the 1933-34 excavation season at Tell Asmar beneath the floor of a temple dedicated to the god Abu. The statues were neatly stacked in an oblong cavity beside an altar in the sanctuary. The careful placement suggests that they were buried intentionally. However, the reason for the burial and person(s) responsible for doing so remains unclear. Frankfort, who wrote extensively on the subject, suggests that a priest periodically buried old or badly damaged statues in order to make room in the temple for their replacements.\n\nThe statues of the Tell Asmar Hoard range in height from 21 cm (8.2 in.) to 72 cm (28.3 in.). Of the twelve statues found ten are male and two are female. Eight of the figures are made from Gypsum, two from limestone, and one (the smallest) from alabaster. All the figures, with the exception of one that is kneeling, are rendered in a standing position. Thin circular bases were used as supports and large wedge shaped feet provided the larger statues with added durability. The males wear kilts with a patterned hem that covers the midsection and thighs. Their broad shoulders and thick, circular arms frame the bare chest, which is partially covered by a black, stylized beard. All the males, with the exception of one that is bald and clean shaven, have long hair rendered in two symmetrical halves that frames the smooth surfaces of the cheeks and forehead. The large eyes, which are undoubtedly the most striking stylistic feature that the statues share in common, are made from inlays of white shell and black limestone; one figure has pupils of lapis lazuli. These materials are secured to the head with bitumen, which was also used as a pigment to give the beard and hair its characteristic black color. Both the hair and the clothing, though abstracted, accurately reflect Sumerian styles of the Early Dynastic period.\n\nThe hoard was discovered in a temple dedicated to Abu, the ancient Near Eastern god of fertility. Evidence from Early Dynastic ruins at Khafajah suggests that the statues may have been arranged along the walls of the sanctuary either on the floor or on a low mud brick bench before they were buried. Some of the statues are inscribed on the back and bottom with a name and personalized supplicatory message, while others simply state “one who offers prayers.” These inscriptions indicate that the statues functioned as a surrogate for male and female worshipers who wished to leave their prayers with the god. In the 3rd millennium B.C. the price for a votive statue likely depended on its size, and possibly what stone was used.\n\nFrankfort argued that the largest figure in the hoard is not an effigy of a human worshiper, but rather a representation of the patron deity Abu. He calls attention to a number of features that set this particular statue apart from the rest including: the size, the unnaturally large eyes, especially the pupils, and the emblematic carving of an eagle with outstretched wings flanked by two recumbent mountain goats carved on the base.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43214794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43214794", "title": "The Hunters (book series)", "text": "The Hunters (book series)\n\nThe Hunters is a book series written by Chris Kuzneski, an American author. The series follows the adventures of a team of renegades – an ex-military leader, a historian, a computer whiz, a weapons expert and a thief – financed by a billionaire philanthropist who are tasked with finding the world's most legendary treasures. The first novel in the series, \"The Hunters\", is currently being turned into a motion picture, directed by John Moore with the screenplay being adapted by Robert Mark Kamen. The series also ties in with Kuzneski's other series, Payne & Jones, by featuring the character Petr Ulster, a historian and curator of the Ulster Archives in Küsendorf, Switzerland, and mentioning a number of minor characters and events from the Payne & Jones universe. The third book in the series, \"The Prisoner's Gold\", won the Thriller Award for the 2016 Book of the Year at a gala hosted by the International Thriller Writers (ITW) in New York City on July 9, 2016.\n\nThe \"Hunters\" series follows the adventures of a team of renegades – an ex-military leader, an historian, a computer whiz, a weapons expert, and a thief – financed by a billionaire philanthropist. The team is tasked with finding the world's most legendary treasures. The first book in the series, \"The Hunters\", was released by Headline in the UK on January 3, 2013 accompanied by a YouTube trailer. \"The Hunters\" was released in America on November 11, 2014. It climbed to #1 on Amazon's suspense and thriller lists on January 23, 2015.\n\nThe second book in the series, \"The Forbidden Tomb\", was released in the UK on April 24, 2014 and in the US on March 1, 2015. It climbed to #1 on Amazon's action, crime, and thriller lists on September 10, 2015.\n\nThe third book in the series, \"The Prisoner's Gold\", was released in the UK and the US on October 8, 2015. It won the Thriller Award for the 2016 Book of the Year at a gala hosted by the International Thriller Writers (ITW) in New York City on July 9, 2016.\n\nFearing a German victory in World War I, the Romanian government signed a deal with Russia to protect the country’s treasures. In 1916, two trains full of gold and the most precious possessions of the Romanian state—paintings, jewelry, and ancient artifacts—were sent to the underground vaults of the Kremlin. But in the turmoil of war, the Romanian treasure was scattered and lost. The collection is now valued at over $3.5 billion. Despite several attempts to find it, its location has remained a mystery…until now.\n\nFor nearly two thousand years, the legendary tomb of Alexander the Great—and the extraordinary riches concealed within—has remained undiscovered, but recent events may hold the key to locating the fabled vault. Only one team has what it takes to solve the mystery that has plagued historians for centuries. The Hunters are tasked with finding the tomb. Following clues to Alexandria, they encounter hostile forces that will do anything to stop them. Before long, the treasure hunt becomes a deadly rescue mission that will take the lives of hundreds and leave a city in ruins.\n\nAt the end of the 13th century, Chinese Emperor Kublai Khan gave an Italian merchant unfettered access to his kingdom. The traveler was Marco Polo, and his journey would become legendary. Aided by a special passport that protected him throughout the land, Polo amassed unbelievable wealth and hid it before his return to Italy. To this day, the location of his treasure remains a mystery. The Hunters are tasked with finding the missing fortune. Guided by firsthand accounts of Polo’s travels, they quickly discover there are hostile forces willing to do anything to stop them from taking the riches from Chinese soil. Before long, the treasure hunt becomes a deadly game of cat-and-mouse that will rewrite history while taking the lives of many.\n\nOn April 16, 2014, Chris Kuzneski announced via his website and Facebook page that the rights to \"The Hunters\" had been optioned by Piers Tempest and Jo Bamford for their new production venture, Tempo Productions. Mark Huffam (\"Prometheus\"), Don Carmody (\"Chicago\"), and Peter Veverka (\"A Good Day to Die Hard\") have joined the producing team. John Moore has signed on to direct \"The Hunters\", and the screenplay is being written by Robert Kamen. On July 1, 2014, Reg Poerscout-Edgerton was announced as casting director for the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2500876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2500876", "title": "Valenki", "text": "Valenki\n\nValenki (; sg valenok ()) are traditional Russian winter footwear, essentially felt boots: the name \"valenok\" literally means \"made by felting\". Valenki are made of wool felt. They are not water-resistant, and are often worn with galoshes to keep water out and protect the soles from wear and tear. Valenki were once the footwear of choice for many Russians, but in the second half of the 20th century they lost most of their appeal in cities, due to their association with rustic dress.\n\nValenki (synonymic and semantic related expressions which mean the same – vа́lenukhi (pl.), vа́lezhki, vа́leni, vа́lentsi, kа́tanki) – warm felted highboots made from dried sheep’s wool; they are usually hard by their form, but there are soft types which are made for a corresponding footwear.\n\nValenki are a kind of traditional Russian footwear which is usually worn for walking on dry snow when the weather is frosty. Valenki wear out most quickly from the bottom and very often are soled with leather or other durable material to prevent this, so they are often worn with galoshes. Also, to protect from getting wet – they use a rubber sole, and there are valenki with glue-sew and molded soles. Traditionally, valenki come in brown, black, gray and white, but the last few years, consumers have been able to order these boots in a variety of colors (red, blue, purple, green, yellow, orange).\n\nValenki are included in standard of supplying officers and the ranks of the internal military service of the Russian army with warm clothes and gear.\nValenki stem from the traditional felt boots worn by nomads of the Great Steppe (including Southern Rus'), whose history goes back over 1500 years.\n\nHowever, as it’s supposed, the boots appeared at the beginning of the 18th century.\nValenki became widespread only in the first half of the 19th century, when they started being manufactured by industrial methods. Before this, they were quite expensive and only wealthy people could afford to have them. The increasing complexity of needs, the growing influence of the urban mores to the village caused the change of bast shoes with felt boots, and with it, the broad development of fulling production.\n\nValenki became less popular in the urban life in recent decades because winters in Central Russia turned to be more soft and slushy, and as result – lighter and waterproof footwear gradually won popularity and replaced valenki. Valenki are associated with a traditional rustic style of clothing; in cities they are usually worn by little kids, or they are worn by one and all in a severe frost, when other shoes don’t protect from the cold.\n\nBefore the revolution, the production of valenki was concentrated in the Semenov district of Nizhny Novgorod province, in the Kineshma District of Kostroma province, and in the Kukmor in Kazan province. In 1900, contemporary jackboot fulling factories of Russia produced 1.4 million pairs of valenki in the amount of 2.1 million rubles. In 1900, a pair of valenki cost 1.5 rubles, in 1912 - 2 rubles, at the end of 1916 the speculative price reached up to 12-18 rubles per pair.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2851718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2851718", "title": "Venetian glass", "text": "Venetian glass\n\nVenetian glass is a type of glass object made in Venice, Italy, primarily on the island of Murano. It is world-renowned for being colorful, elaborate, and skillfully made.\n\nMany of the important characteristics of these objects had been developed by the thirteenth century. Toward the end of that century, the centre of the Venetian glass industry moved to Murano.\n\nByzantine craftsmen played an important role in the development of Venetian glass, an art form for which the city is well known. When Constantinople was sacked by the Fourth Crusade in 1204, some fleeing artisans came to Venice. This happened again when the Ottomans took Constantinople in 1453, supplying Venice with still more glassworkers. By the sixteenth century, Venetian artisans had gained even greater control over the colour and transparency of their glass, and had mastered a variety of decorative techniques.\n\nDespite efforts to keep Venetian glassmaking techniques within Venice, they became known elsewhere, and Venetian-style glassware was produced in other Italian cities and other countries of Europe.\n\nSome of the most important brands of glass in the world today, including Venini, Barovier & Toso, Pauly and Seguso, are still produced in the historical glass factories on Murano. Barovier & Toso is considered to be one of the 100 oldest companies in continuous operation in the world, having been founded in 1295.\n\nMurano’s reputation as a centre for glassmaking was born when the Venetian Republic, fearing fire and destruction to the city’s mostly wood buildings, ordered the destruction of all the foundries within the city in 1291. Though the Republic ordered the destruction of the foundries, it authorised and encouraged construction outside the city, and by the late 13th century, the glassmaking industry was centred in Murano. Murano glass is still interwoven with Venetian glass.\n\nMurano's glassmakers were soon the island’s most prominent citizens. By the 14th century, glassmakers were allowed to wear swords, enjoyed immunity from prosecution by the Venetian state and found their daughters married into Venice’s most affluent families. Of course there was a catch: Glassmakers were not allowed to leave the Republic. Many craftsmen took this risk, however, and set up glass furnaces in surrounding cities and as far afield as England and the Netherlands.\n\nMurano’s glassmakers held a monopoly on quality glassmaking for centuries, developing or refining many technologies including crystalline glass, enameled glass (\"smalto\"), glass with threads of gold (\"aventurine\"), multicoloured glass (\"millefiori\"), milk glass (\"lattimo\"), and imitation gemstones made of glass. Today, the artisans of Murano are still employing these centuries-old techniques, crafting everything from contemporary art glass and glass jewelry to Murano glass chandeliers and wine stoppers.\n\nToday, Murano is home to the \"Museo Vetrario\" or Glass Museum in the Palazzo Giustinian, which holds displays on the history of glassmaking, as well as glass samples ranging from Egyptian times through the present day.\n\nThe process of making Murano glass is rather complex. The glass is made from silica, which becomes liquid at high temperatures. As the glass passes from a liquid to a solid state, there is an interval when the glass is soft before it hardens completely. This is when the glass-master can shape the material.\n\nThe other raw materials, called ceramic fluxes or melting agents, allow the glass to soften at lower temperatures. The more sodium oxide present in the glass, the slower it solidifies. This is important for hand-working because it allows the glassmaker more time to shape the material. The various raw materials an artisan might add to a glass mixture are sodium (to reduce melting temperature), nitrate and arsenic (to eliminate bubbles) and colouring or opacifying substances.\n\nColours, techniques and materials vary depending upon the look a glassmaker is trying to achieve. Aquamarine is created through the use of copper and cobalt compounds, whereas ruby red uses a gold solution as a colouring agent. Murrine technique begins with the layering of coloured liquid glass, which is then stretched into long rods called canes (caneworking) different color canes are then arranged in a mold to form a design. Then they are heated to fusing temperatures and when fused then pulled (stretched) again like taffy to reduce diameters. Then when cold, these canes are then sliced in cross-section, which show a layered pattern. The better-known term \"millefiori\" is a way of using lots of sliced murrine that being picked up from the marver by a gather of hot molten glass. When the amalgam of this type of murrine shows the likeness of many flowers, thus mille (thousand) fiori (flowers). Filigree (a type of caneworking), \"incalmo\", enamel painted, glass engraving, gold engraving, \"lattimo\", ribbed glass and submersion are just a few of the other techniques a glassmaker can employ many of which have not changed since Roman times (the Romans promoted their glass industry wherever they went).\n\nMurano artisans use the specialised tools of their trade in the making of their glass. Some of these tools (which under different names have been used by glassblowers since Roman times) include \"borselle\" (tongs or pliers used to hand-form the red-hot glass), \"canna da soffio\" (blowing pipe), \"pontello\" (an iron rod to which the craftsman attaches the glass after blowing to add final touches), \"scagno\" (the glass-master's work bench) and \"tagianti\" (large glass-cutting clippers).\n\n\n2. W. Patrick McCray, Glassmaking in Renaissance Venice: The Fragile Craft (Aldershot: Ashgate Press, 1999).\n\n"}
{"id": "1451393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1451393", "title": "Walnut Canyon National Monument", "text": "Walnut Canyon National Monument\n\nWalnut Canyon National Monument (Hopi: Wupatupqa) is a United States National Monument located about southeast of downtown Flagstaff, Arizona, near Interstate 40. The canyon rim elevation is ; the canyon's floor is 350 ft lower. A long loop trail descends into the canyon passing 25 cliff dwelling rooms constructed by the Sinagua, a pre-Columbian cultural group that lived in Walnut Canyon from about 1100 to 1250 CE. Other contemporary habitations of the Sinagua people are preserved in the nearby Tuzigoot and Montezuma Castle national monuments.\n\nSinagua is Spanish for \"without water\", an acknowledgement that the Sinagua people were able to live in such a dry region. By living in such a region the Sinagua became experts at conserving water and dealing with droughts. The Sinagua were also believed to have been active traders that stretched to the Gulf of Mexico and even as far as Central America. The Sinagua, who inhabited the dwellings in Walnut Canyon, left mysteriously around 1250 CE. It is thought that the Sinagua left because of fear of neighboring tribes or droughts, but it is not certain. The Sinagua left over 80 cliff dwellings behind. The Sinagua built their homes under limestone ledges, deep within the canyon, some time between 1125 and 1250 CE - taking advantage of the natural recesses in the limestone cliff walls which were eroded over millions of years by flowing water. The dwellings themselves were small, but large enough for the inhabitants to cook and sleep. Most of the cliff dwelling rooms are situated near the loop trail, typically slightly above the trail and immediately outside the loop itself. A typical room might have been the dwelling of a single family, and might measure approximately two meters high by six meters long by three meters deep. Because of the area's dry climate, the water present in the canyon was essential for its inhabitants over 700 years ago as it is for animal and plant life today. The plant life is very diverse in Walnut Canyon, with more than 387 different plant species, including the Prickly Pear cactus and the Arizona black walnut. The biodiversity of the area includes high concentrations of sensitive plant species that probably contributed to the decision made by prehistoric people to settle in the area.\n\nThere are other ruins in the area, but none are publicly accessible. Many more dwellings to be seen up close in the canyon just east of the Monument, although it is illegal to enter the canyon.\nWalnut Canyon was proclaimed a national monument on November 30, 1915 by President Woodrow Wilson to preserve the ancient cliff dwellings. It was transferred from the USDA Forest Service to the National Park Service on August 10, 1933. As with all historic areas administered by the National Park Service, the national monument was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on October 15, 1966. At Walnut Canyon, there are trails for tourists to get a close view of the dwellings.\n\nWalnut Canyon lies on the Colorado Plateau and cuts through the Permian Kaibab Limestone, which exposes the Toroweap Formation and Coconino Sandstone. The Kaibab formation also forms the rim of the Grand Canyon. Crossbedding is present in the Coconino Sandstone.\n\nThe Walnut Canyon site contains Walnut Creek, which carved a 600 foot deep canyon that flows east. The creek joins into the Little Colorado River en route to the Grand Canyon. The creek has also created a varied and abundant array of vegetation. The shaded, north- facing walls are covered in fir and ponderosa pine trees. The sunny, south facing slopes have agaves and several species of cactus including opuntia, echnocereus and cholla. The floor of the canyon is home to several species of walnut trees, for which the canyon is named.\n\nThe rocks in the canyon walls are formed of three distinct layers - the upper third of Walnut Canyon's walls contain Kaibab Limestone that varies in layers and hardness, where the cliff dwellings are found, which overlies steep, scrub covered slopes of the Toroweap Formation, while the lowest third is the sheer-walled, cross-bedded Coconino Sandstone. Many layers of the limestone eroded, creating alcoves that the Sinagua Indians used as cave-dwellings.\n\nToday a variety of archeological and natural resources are preserved on approximately 3600 acres.\n\nNot all of Arizona is warm dry desert. At Walnut Canyon (6690'/2039m above sea level), has snow in winter, hot sun in summer with afternoon thunderstorms, and in the spring, strong gusty winds on the rim and/or in the canyon. Even though the climate was and still is somewhat harsh, the Sinagua Indians that lived there were able to harvest maize, beans and squash.\n\nPark entrance road, trails, and Visitor Center are open all year, except December 25. From May until October the monument is open from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. MST and is open from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. MST the remainder of the year. Entry to park trails closes 1 hour before the monument closes.\n\nThe Walnut Canyon site is near Flagstaff. It is 7 miles east of I-40 and 3 miles south of exit 204. The park has a museum and a small visitor center atop a cliff. Many of the ancient dwellings were built around a U-shaped meander in the canyon, where the creek circles around three sides of a high rocky plateau, almost creating an 'island', and this region now forms the central attraction of the national monument. There are other ruins in the surround area which are not open to the public. Other dwellings of the Sinagua people can be found in the nearby Tuzigoot and Montezuma Castle monuments.\n\nThe Old Headquarters is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n"}
{"id": "37767093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37767093", "title": "Whitewashing (beauty)", "text": "Whitewashing (beauty)\n\nWhitewashing in beauty is a phenomenon in the intersection of the fashion industry, digital photography, mass media, marketing and advertising. It describes a situation in which the skin tone of non-white women (less often of men) – when depicted in magazine covers, advertisements, commercials, music videos, etc. – is, digitally retouched or physically modified to appear whiter. Whitewashing can also present itself in the alteration of hair texture to resemble Eurocentric beauty ideals of straight hair. Whitewashing can be seen in the form of skin whitening, either digitally or with harmful skin bleaching products, or by chemically relaxing textured hair to make it conform to Eurocentric beauty standards. Additionally, plastic surgery can be used to alter features to make them appear more European, such as double eyelid surgery.\n\nWhitewashing has been seen for centuries in the media, through film, photography, advertising, etc. Whitewashing in Hollywood is a prevalent issue, often attributed to the lack of racial diversity in the industry itself. Advertising companies often will airbrush their models to make them appear to have lighter skin, as seen in the L'orealcampaign with Beyoncé in 2008. \n\nWhitewashing can also be seen when a film or television show based on a book or other precedent decides to rewrite a non-white role as white and use a white actor to portray the role. This is not to be confused with blackface, which is when a person who is not Black attempts to portray a darker skin tone with makeup or digital editing. This type of whitewashing is most common in the film industry and has been a problem since the beginning of Hollywood. More people of color are being represented in the industry as of late, but whitewashing remains a prevalent issue that can affect self-image of young children whose races have been marginalized in film.'\n\nCultural whitewashing is also common in the media, in which a culture's traditions are tweaked to satisfy Western stereotypes, such as in the popular film Step Up.\n\nA clear example of beauty whitewashing is a L'Oreal advertising campaign featuring Beyoncé Knowles in which her skin was digitally retouched to appear lighter. This brought the corporation under fire for a significant period. Other examples include celebrities Halle Berry, Brandy, Mariah Carey, Rihanna, Freida Pinto, Jennifer Lopez, Tyra Banks, Leona Lewis, Jennifer Hudson, Gabourey Sidibe and Queen Latifah, in which these figures were subjected to skin lightening during the editing stage of promotional photoshoots.\n\nThe photo and video-sharing app, Snapchat, also attracted public criticism in 2016 for potential whitewashing in its photo filters. A particular target of this outcry was the use of words such as \"beautify\" and \"pretty\" associated with the skin-lightening filters.\n\nRecently, Rupert Sanders’ Hollywood rendition of the 1995 Japanese manga film \"Ghost In the Shell\" came under scrutiny for casting a white actress (Scarlett Johansson,) to play the Japanese protagonist. Though this wasn't physical whitewashing through skin whitening or hair relaxant, it is still considered whitewashing since a white actress was used instead of a Japanese one and the role was rewritten for a white actress.\n\nIn the 2014 film \"Aloha\", directed by Cameron Crowe, Emma Stone (a white actress) was cast for the role of Captain Allison Ng, a woman who was partially Hawaiian. Similar to \"Ghost In the Shell,\" a white actress was used in place of a person of color, effectively whitewashing the role and the film itself.\n\nTypically, women primarily use products to lighten their skin, but in many cases men also do. Former professional baseball star, Sammy Sosa admitted to using skin bleaching cream in an interview with \"Primer Impacto\" of the Univision Spanish network. Sammy Sosa said, \"It's a bleaching cream that I apply before going to bed and whitens my skin some… It's a cream that I have, that I use to soften [my skin], but has bleached me some. I'm not racist, I live my life happily.\" \n\nThe reasons for altering skin tone in advertisements are believed to be primarily marketing purposes, more specifically directly appealing to whiter ethnicities, which are generally the strongest target groups in consumer-driven areas such as Europe and America. Skin tone manipulation can also reflect the implicit beauty standards or ideals that the marketers perpetuate. Beauty whitewash is criticized for distorting general perceptions of reality, exuding a twisted sense of beauty, and having a negative influence on women, children, and communities alike.\n\nThese Eurocentric ideals are forced upon people of color, creating hierarchies within their own communities. Ultimately, whitewashing creates social tension not only between White and non-White communities, but also between groups who resemble the more established beauty standards, such as lighter-skinned African Americans, and the groups who do not, including darker-skinned African Americans. This phenomenon can apply to both men and women of color.\n\nKai Nelson believes that whitewashing has a negative impact on children in African American communities as well. The media does not always give an accurate view of the races that they are depicting, resulting in a diminishment of self-confidence in African American children. Nelson explains that children interpret the altering of skin color in the beauty industry in a negative way, and can develop a viewpoint that they are \"unattractive\" and \"undesirable\". Because of the lack of Black role models in popular media, this causes them to see the Caucasian community as the \"default race\".\n\nAs Ronald Hall describes in his \"Journal of Black Studies\", whitewashing has caused people of color to develop a \"bleaching syndrome\" which causes an internalization of preference for the dominant, or White, culture’s ideals. This results in people of color developing a contempt for dark skin because it is regarded as an obstacle for assimilation. However, despite adopting white cultural values, people of color are still barred from full assimilation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53631933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53631933", "title": "Women Artists Visibility Event (W.A.V.E.) / Let MOMA Know", "text": "Women Artists Visibility Event (W.A.V.E.) / Let MOMA Know\n\nThe Women's Artists Visibility Event (W.A.V.E.) also known as Let MOMA Know, was a demonstration held on June 14, 1984 to protest the lack of women artists represented in The Museum of Modern Art's re-opening exhibition \"An International Survey of Recent Painting and Sculpture.\" The exhibition, which included 165 artists, had 14 women among them.\n\nThe event's acronym, W.A.V.E., is a nod to Flag Day, which is observed on June 14 in the United States. 400 demonstrators, wearing suffragette yellow and white, marched in front the entrance to MoMA's newly expanded 53rd street building; a well received renovation that doubled its gallery space and increased traffic to the museum. Demonstrators had three demands: that MoMA exhibit works by women artists from their permanent collection, that it display women's work in loaned exhibitions, and that it create a policy to acquire women's work in the future. The WCA created pins to parody MoMA's \"Museum of Modern Art OPENS\" staff badges, upon which they included the addition \"But Not to Women Artists.\" Cards were distributed listing the names of 100 well known female artists who were not featured in the exhibit, including Alice Neel, Louise Nevelson, Jaune Quick-to-See Smith, Faith Ringgold and Louise Bourgeois.\n\nOne spokesperson for the museum, Louisa Kreisberg, noted that a film series in the exhibition featured four women of the six films shown, and that the staff at the museum was roughly 65% female.\n\nThe event was organized by the New York chapter of the Women's Caucus for Art (WCA), and supported by three additional feminist arts organizations; The Heresies Collective, Women's Interart Center, and New York Feminist Art Institute. Individual organizers for the event were artists Sabra Moore, and Betsy Damon and curator and President of WCA New York, Annie Shaver-Crandell.\n\n"}
