{"id": "204278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=204278", "title": "Apologia Pro Vita Sua", "text": "Apologia Pro Vita Sua\n\nApologia Pro Vita Sua (Latin: \"A defence of one's own life\") is John Henry Newman's defence of his religious opinions, published in 1864 in response to Charles Kingsley of the Church of England after Newman quit his position as the Anglican vicar of St. Mary's, Oxford.\n\nJohn Henry Newman was regarded as a premier religious figure even before writing this definitive essay. The backdrop for the essay was a mid-century Anglican theological controversy in which Newman and other Anglicans were calling for a return to a former more disciplined and traditional authoritarian hierarchy.\n\nFriction during the years from 1833 to 1841 led Newman and his allies in the Oxford Movement to publish a statement, the \"Tracts for the Times\", to which Newman was a contributor. The tensions culminated in Newman's 1845 resignation as Anglican vicar of St. Mary's, Oxford and his departure from the Anglican church seeking the Roman Catholics.\n\nOne of Newman's rivals was Anglican Charles Kingsley of the broad church party, who responded to Newman's departure with attacks impeaching his truthfulness and honor. The flowing, almost poetic prose of the Apologia Pro Vita Sua was a spiritual autobiographical defense to Kingsley's attacks.\n\nNewman's book was influential with both churches and Newman was ultimately ordained by the Roman Catholics, where he soon became established as one of the foremost exponents of Catholicism in England.\n\nThe book was very well received and became a bestseller, remaining in print today. A revised version of the \"Apologia Pro Vita Sua\" with many passages rewritten and some parts omitted, was published in 1865.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1767413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767413", "title": "Apostasy in Islam", "text": "Apostasy in Islam\n\nApostasy in Islam ( ' or ') is commonly defined as the conscious abandonment of Islam by a Muslim in word or through deed. It includes the act of converting to another religion or non-acceptance of faith to be irreligious, by a person who was born in a Muslim family or who had previously accepted Islam. The definition of apostasy from Islam, and whether and how it should be punished are matters of controversy – Islamic scholars differ in their opinions on these questions.\n\nApostasy in Islam includes within its scope not only the wilful renunciation of Islam by a Muslim through a declaration of renunciation of the Islamic faith (whether for another religion or irreligiosity), or (in the absence of a declaration) by specific deed of undergoing the rites of conversion into another religion, but also even denying, or merely questioning, any \"fundamental tenet or creed\" of Islam, such as the divinity of God, prophethood of Muhammad, or mocking God, or worshipping one or more idols. Different Muslim denominations and schools of thought may hold different additional views of what each considers a fundamental tenet of the faith. It does not include individuals who were forced to embrace Islam under conditions of duress, or acts against Islam or conversion to another religion that is involuntary, forced or done as concealment out of fear of persecution or during war (Taqiyya or Kitman).\n\nUntil the late 19th century, the vast majority of Islamic scholars in Madh'hab (Sunni) and Imamah (Shia) schools of jurisprudence held that for adult men, apostasy from Islam was a crime as well as a sin, an act of treason punishable with the death penalty, typically after a waiting period to allow the apostate time to repent and to return to Islam. The kind of apostasy which the jurists generally deemed punishable was of the political kind, although there were considerable legal differences of opinion on this matter. Wael Hallaq states that \"[in] a culture whose lynchpin is religion, religious principles and religious morality, apostasy is in some way equivalent to high treason in the modern nation-state\". Nevertheless, Muslim jurists from the early period, from different Muslim denominations and schools of thought, developed legal institutions to circumvent harsh punishment in cases of allegations or charges of apostasy. These institutions set the standard for what counts as apostasy from Islam so high that at least prior to the 11th century practically no judgment of apostasy could be passed. Subsequently, authorities in the Muslim World have not consistently applied these high standards of what counts for apostasy. In the late 19th century, the use of criminal penalties for apostasy fell into disuse, although civil penalties were still applied.\n\nAccording to Abdul Rashied Omar, the majority of modern Islamic jurists continue to regard apostasy as a crime deserving the death penalty. Some regard apostasy in Islam as a form of religious crime, although others do not. Others argue that the death penalty is an inappropriate punishment, inconsistent with the Qur'anic injunctions such as Quran 88:21–22 or \"no compulsion in religion\"; and/or that it was a man-made rule enacted in the early Islamic community to prevent and punish the equivalent of desertion or treason, and should be enforced only if apostasy becomes a mechanism of public disobedience and disorder (\"fitna\"). According to Khaled Abou El Fadl, moderate Muslims do not believe that apostasy requires punishment. Critics argue that the death penalty or other punishment for apostasy in Islam is a violation of universal human rights, and an issue of freedom of faith and conscience.\n\n, laws in various Muslim-majority countries prescribed for the apostate ( \"\") sentences ranging from execution to a prison term to no punishment. Sharia courts in some countries use civil code to void the Muslim apostate's marriage and to deny child-custody rights as well as inheritance rights. In the years 1985-2006, three governments executed four individuals for apostasy from Islam: \"one in Sudan in 1985; two in Iran, in 1989 and 1998; and one in Saudi Arabia in 1992.\" Twenty-three Muslim-majority countries, , additionally covered apostasy from Islam through their criminal laws. The Tunisian Constitution of 2014 stipulates protection from attacks based on accusations of apostasy.\n\nThe Quran discusses apostasy in many of its verses. For example:\n\nOther Qur'anic verses refer to apostasy. According to professor of anthropology Dale F. Eickelman, some verses in the Quran appear to justify coercion and severe punishment for apostates. In contrast, legal historian Wael Hallaq writes that \"nothing in the law governing apostates and apostasy derives from the letter\" of the Quran. There is no mention of any specific corporal punishment for apostates to which they are to be subjected in this world, nor do Qur'anic verses refer, whether explicitly or implicitly, to the need to force an apostate to return to Islam or to kill him if he refuses to do so.\n\nIn contrast to the Qur'an, hadith literature gives contradictory statements about punishments for apostasy.\n\nIn Sahih al-Bukhari, the most important book in Sunni Islam after the Quran, and Sahih Muslim punishments for apostasy are described as follows:\n\nOn the other hand, there are hadiths stating apostates were not sentenced to death:\n\nThis is also sometimes cited as an example of open apostasy that was left unpunished.\n\nAnd in the Muwatta of Imam Malik one finds:\n\nAccording to the Fiqh Council of North America, the above hadith are often misunderstood as justifying the killing of people for changes in belief, when the people cited in the hadith were actually guilty of changing their allegiances to the armies fighting the Muslims. They point this out by showing the differences in the oft-cited hadith to justify punishment of apostates from different books of the six most important collections of hadith for Sunni Muslims. For example, here the phrase \"one who reverts from Islam and leaves the Muslims\" is changed to \"one who goes forth to fight Allah and His Apostle\":\n\nApostasy is called \"irtidād\" (which literally means relapse or regress) or \"ridda\" in Islamic literature; an apostate is called \"murtadd\", which means 'one who turns back' from Islam. According to some, someone born to a Muslim parent or one who has previously converted to Islam becomes a \"murtadd\" if he or she verbally denies any principle of belief prescribed by Qur'an or a Hadith, deviates from approved Islamic tenets (\"ilhad\"), or if he or she commits a blasphemy such as treating a copy of the Qurʾan with disrespect. A person born to a Muslim parent who later rejects Islam is called a \"murtad fitri\", and a person who converted to Islam and later rejects the religion is called a \"murtad milli\".\n\nThe jurist Imam Ibnul Humam (d. 681 AH) wrote in his book \"Fathul Qadir\":\n\nA person is considered apostate if he or she converts from Islam to another religion. Apostasy can occur even if one does not formally renounce Islam. Those who were forced to denounce Islam under conditions of duress or out of fear of persecution or during war (Taqiyya or Kitman) are not considered apostates.\n\nEvidence of apostasy in Islam, according to Reliance of the Traveller, a 14th-century manual of the Shafi'i school of jurisprudence (Fiqh), includes:\n\nAl-Ghazali held that apostasy occurs when a Muslim denies the essential dogmas: monotheism, Muhammad's prophecy, and the Last Judgment.\n\nIn early Islamic history, after Muhammad's death, the declaration of Prophethood by anyone was automatically deemed to be proof of apostasy. This view has continued to the modern age in the rejection of the Ahmadiyya sect of Islam as apostates by mainstream Sunni and Shia sects of Islam, because Ahmadis consider Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, founder of Ahmadiyya, as a modern-day Prophet.\n\nThere are disagreements among Islamic scholars, and Islamic schools of jurisprudence, as to who can be judged for the crime of apostasy in Islam. Some in Shafi'i fiqh such as Nawawi and al-Misri state that the apostasy code applies to a Muslim who \n\nMaliki scholars additionally require that the person in question has publicly engaged in the obligatory practices of the religion. In contrast, Hanafi, Hanbali and Ja'fari fiqh set no such screening requirements; a Muslim's history has no bearing on when and on whom to apply the sharia code for apostasy.\n\nIn the contemporary Islamic Republic of Iran, at least one conservative jurist, Ayatollah Mohsen Araki, has attempted to reconcile following the traditional doctrine while addressing the principle of freedom of religion enshrined in the Islamic Republic's constitution. At a 2009 human rights conference at Mofid University in Qom, Araki stated that \"if an individual doubts Islam, he does not become the subject of punishment, but if the doubt is openly \"expressed\", this is not permissible.\" As one observer (Sadakat Kadri) noted, this \"freedom\" has the advantage that \"state officials could not punish an unmanifested belief even if they wanted to\".\n\nWhile there are numerous requirements for a Muslim to avoid being an apostate, it is also an act of apostasy (in Shafi'i and other fiqh) for a Muslim to accuse or describe another devout Muslim of being an unbeliever, based on the hadith where Muhammad is reported to have said: \"If a man says to his brother, 'You are an infidel,' then one of them is right.\"\n\nRegarding Muslim converts to Christianity, Duane Alexander Miller (2016) identified two different categories:\nMiller introduced the term 'Muslim-background believers' (MBBs) to encompass both groups, adding that the latter group are generally regarded as apostates from Islam, but orthodox Muslims' opinions on the former group is more mixed (either that 'Muslim followers of Jesus' are 'heterodox Muslims', 'heretical Muslims' or 'crypto-Christian liars').\n\nAlthough the writings of Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab himself did not called for killing apostates before they were properly instructed to his teachings, later Wahhabism depicts Non-Wahhabis including Sunni- and Shia Muslims, as apostates who should be killed. Further Wahhabism condemns Falsafa, Kalam and other established Islamic practices, as heretical.\n\nProselytization and apostasy of Muslims to leave Islam and join another religion is considered a religious crime by many writers. Throughout the history of Islam, proselytization and apostasy of Muslims was forbidden by law.\n\nThere are differences of opinion among Islamic scholars about whether, when and how apostasy in Islam should be punished.\n\nIn Islamic law (sharia), the view among the majority of medieval jurists was that a male apostate must be put to death unless he suffers from a mental disorder or converted under duress, for example, due to an imminent danger of being killed. A female apostate must be either executed, according to Shafi'i, Maliki, and Hanbali schools of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh), or imprisoned until she reverts to Islam as advocated by the Sunni Hanafi school and by Shi'a scholars.\n\nMany Islamic scholars have viewed apostasy as a \"hadd\" (pl. \"hudud\") crime, i.e. a crime with a scripturally prescribed punishment, although this classification has been contested by Hanafi and Shafi'i jurists, as well as by some notable scholars of other schools, such as the Malikite Abu al-Walid al-Baji and Hanbalite Ibn Taymiyyah.\n\nUnder traditional Islamic law an apostate may be given a waiting period while in incarceration to repent and accept Islam again and if not the apostate is to be killed without any reservations. This traditional view of Sunni and Shia Islamic fiqhs, or schools of jurisprudence (maḏāhib) each with their own interpretation of Sharia, varies as follows:\n\nHowever, according to legal historian Sadakat Kadri, while apostasy was traditionally punished by death, executions were rare because \"it was widely believed\" that any accused apostate \"who repented by articulating the \"shahada\"\" (\"LA ILAHA ILLALLAH\" \"There is no God but God\") \"had to be forgiven\" and their punishment delayed until after Judgement Day. This principle was upheld \"even in extreme situations\", such as when an offender adopts Islam \"only for fear of death\", based on the hadith that Muhammad had upbraided a follower for killing a raider who had uttered the shahada.\n\nIn Islam, apostasy has been traditionally considered both a religious crime and a civil liability; the punishment for the former includes death or prison, while the latter leads to civil penalties. Therefore, in all madhhabs of Islam, (a) the property of the apostate is seized and distributed to his or her Muslim relatives; (b) his or her marriage annulled (\"faskh\"); (c) any children removed and considered ward of the Islamic state. In case the entire family has left Islam, or there are no surviving Muslim relatives recognized by Sharia, the apostate's property is liquidated by the Islamic state (part of \"fay\", الْفيء). In case the apostate is not executed, such as in case of women apostates in Hanafi school, the person also loses all inheritance rights. Hanafi Sunni school of jurisprudence allows waiting till execution, before children and property are seized; other schools do not consider this wait as mandatory.\n\nVarious early Muslim scholars did not agree with the death penalty, among them Ibrahim al-Nakha'i (d. 715) and Sufyan al-Thawri and their followers, who rejected the death penalty and prescribed indefinite imprisonment until repentance. The Hanafi jurist Sarakhsi also called for different punishments between the non-seditious religious apostasy and that of seditious and political nature, or high treason.\n\nMedieval Islamic scholars also differed on the punishment of a female apostate: death, enslavement, or imprisonment until repentance. Abu Hanifa and his followers refused the death penalty for female apostates, supporting imprisonment until they re-embrace Islam. Hanafi scholars maintain that a female apostate should not be killed because it was forbidden to kill women under Sharia. In contrast, Maliki, Shafii, Hanbali and Ja'fari scholars interpreted other parts of Sharia to permit death as possible punishment for Muslim apostate women, in addition to confinement.\n\nContemporary reform Muslims such as Quranist Ahmed Subhy Mansour, Edip Yuksel, and Mohammed Shahrour have suffered from accusations of apostasy and demands to execute them, issued by Islamic clerics such as Mahmoud Ashur, Mustafa Al-Shak'a, Mohammed Ra'fat Othman and Yusif Al-Badri. Despite claiming to have received death threats, Edip Yuksel also believes that high-profile apostates who are controversial should be killed. He wrote, \"Apostasy is not what gets one killed. It's a combination of being controversial and having a high profile.\"\n\nProminent recent examples of writers and activists killed because of apostasy claims include Mahmoud Mohammed Taha, executed by the Sudanese government, as thousands of demonstrators protested his execution, and Faraj Foda, victim of Islamic extremists who were later arrested and imprisoned for 20 years. The Egyptian Nobel prize winner Najib Mahfouz was injured in an attempted assassination, paralyzing his right arm. The case of Abdul Rahman, an Afghan who converted from Islam to Christianity, sparked debate on the issue. While he initially faced the death penalty, he was eventually released as he was deemed mentally unfit to stand trial.\n\nOver the centuries a number of prominent ulema, including the Maliki jurist Abu al-Walid al-Baji (d. 474 AH) and Hanbali jurist Ibn Taymiyyah (1263–1328), held that apostasy is not a hadd crime and thus is liable only to a discretionary punishment (\"ta'zir\"). Some early authorities, such as Ibrahim al-Nakhai and Sufyan al-Thawri, as well as the Hanafi jurist Sarakhsi (d. 1090), believed that an apostate should be asked to repent indefinitely and never condemned to death. According to Sarakhsi, apostasy from Islam is a great offense, but its punishment is postponed until the Day of Judgement. The view that the Quran speaks only of otherworldly punishment for apostasy was also held by the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar (1958-1963) Mahmud Shaltut, who held that the prescription of death penalty for apostasy found in hadith was aimed at prevention of aggression against Muslims and sedition against the state. Contemporary scholar Mirza Tahir Ahmad quotes a number of companions of Muhammad or early Islamic scholars (Ibn al-Humam, al-Marghinani, Ibn Abbas, Sarakhsi, Ibrahim al-Nakh'i) to argue that there was not a \"ijma\" (consensus among scholars or community) in favor of execution of murtadd in early Islam.\n\nContemporary Islamic Shafi`i jurists such as the Grand Mufti Ali Gomaa and fiqh scholar Taha Jabir Alalwani along with Shi'a jurists such as Grand Ayatollah Hossein-Ali Montazeri and Grand Ayatollah Hussein Esmaeel al-Sadr and some jurists, scholars and writers of other Islamic sects, have argued or issued fatwas that the changing of religion is not punishable, but these minority opinions have not found broad acceptance among the majority of Islamic scholars. However others have successfully argued that the majority view, in both the past and the present, wasn't a severe punishment for mere apostasy.\n\nJaved Ahmad Ghamidi writes that punishment for apostasy was part of divine punishment for only those who denied the truth even after clarification in its ultimate form by Muhammad (Itmaam-i-hujjat), hence, he considers it a time-bound command and no longer punishable.\n\nTariq Ramadan states that given \"the way the Prophet behaved with the people who left Islam (like Hishâm and 'Ayyash) or who converted to Christianity (such as Ubaydallah ibn Jahsh), it should be stated that one who changes her/his religion should not be killed\". He further states that \"there can be no compulsion or coercion in matters of faith not only because it is explicitly forbidden in the Qur'an but also because free conscious and choice and willing submission are foundational to the first pillar (declaration of faith) and essential to the very definition of Islam. Therefore, someone leaving Islam or converting to another religion must be free to do so and her/his choice must be respected.\"\n\nReza Aslan argues that the idea that apostasy is treason rather than exercise of freedom of religion is not so much part of Islam, as part of the pre-modern era when classical Islamic \"fiqh\" was developed, and when \"\"every\" religion was a `religion of the sword`\".\n\nThis was also an era in which religion and the state were one unified entity. ... no Jew, Christian, Zoroastrian, or Muslim of this time would have considered his or her religion to be rooted in the personal confessional experiences of individuals. ... Your religion was your ethnicity, your culture, and your social identity... your religion was your citizenship.\n\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community, a minority sect found in South and Southeast Asia, rejects any form of punishment for apostasy whatsoever in this world, citing hadith, Quran, and the opinions of classical Islamic jurists to justify its views. However, Ahmadiyya Muslims are widely considered as non-Muslim apostates and persecuted by mainstream Islam, because of their beliefs.\n\nThe basis for an opposition to execution for \"mere\" apostasy in the Qur'an stems from the following:\n\nJonathan A.C. Brown explains that \"According to all the theories of language elaborated by Muslim legal scholars, the Qur'anic proclamation that 'There is no compulsion in religion. The right path has been distinguished from error' is as absolute and universal a statement as one finds. The truth had been made clear, and now, 'Whoever wants, let him believe, and whoever wants, let him disbelieve,' the holy book continues (2:256, 18:29). \", and hence the Qur'an granted religious freedom. Peters and Vries, in contrast, write that the Quranic verse 2:256 was traditionally interpreted in a different way, considered abrogated (suspended and overruled) by later verses of Quran by some classical scholars. Peters and Vries note that some interpreted this verse has been that it \"forbids compulsion to things that are wrong but not compulsion to accept the truth\". However, that isn't true since Muslim scholars have established the abrogated verses and (2:256) isn't among them, moreover, many Qur'anic commentators and Muslim scholars interpret (2:256) by reasoning that the truth of Islam is so self-evident that no one is in need of being coerced into it; and embracing Islam because of coercion would not benefit the convert in any case.\n\nKhaled Abou El Fadl claims that the verses (88:21–22) emphasizes that even Muhammad does not have the right to think of himself as a warden who has the power to coerce people. This is reaffirmed by many of the historical reports regarding the Qur'anic revelation that emphasize that belief and conviction cannot be coerced. He further states that moderates consider the verse (2:256) to be enunciating a general, overriding principle that cannot be contradicted by isolated traditions attributed to the Prophet. He concludes that moderates do not believe that there is any punishment that attaches to apostasy.\n\nS. A. Rahman, a former Chief Justice of Pakistan, argues that there is no indication of the death penalty for apostasy in the Qur'an. W. Heffening states that \"in the Qur'an the apostate is threatened with punishment in the next world only.\" Wael Hallaq holds that nothing in the law governing apostate and apostasy derives from the letter of Quran. The late dissenting Shia jurist Grand Ayatollah Hossein-Ali Montazeri stated that the Quranic verses do not prescribe an earthly penalty for apostasy.\n\nIslamist author Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi argued that verses of the Qur'an sanction death for apostasy. In contrast, Pakistan's jurist S. A. Rahman states \"that not only is there no punishment for apostasy provided in the Book but that the Word of God clearly envisages the natural death of the apostate. He will be punished only in the Hereafter…\" Rahman also highlights that there is no reference to the death penalty in any of the 20 instances of apostasy mentioned in the Qur'an.\nAhmet Albayrak explains in \"The Qur'an: An Encyclopedia\" that regarding apostasy as a wrongdoing is not a sign of intolerance of other religions, and is not aimed at one's freedom to choose a religion or to leave Islam and embrace another faith, but that on the contrary, it is more correct to say that the punishment is enforced as a safety precaution when warranted if apostasy becomes a mechanism of public disobedience and disorder (\"fitna\"). At this point, what is punished is the action of ridiculing the high moral flavour of Islam and posing a threat to public order. Otherwise, Islam prohibits spying on people and investigating their private lives, beliefs and personal opinions.\n\nEnayatullah Subhani argues that death penalty mentioned in the Hadith is not for the apostates, rather it is the punishment of collective conspiracy and treason against the government.\n\nWriting in the \"Encyclopedia of Islam\", Heffening holds that contrary to the Qur'an, \"in traditions [i.e. hadith], there is little echo of these punishments in the next world... and instead, we have in many traditions a new element, the death penalty.\" Wael Hallaq states the death penalty reflects a later reality and does not stand in accord with the deeds of Muhammad.\n\nAyatollah Montazeri holds that it is probable that the punishment was prescribed by Muhammad during early Islam to combat political conspiracies against Islam and Muslims, and is not intended for those who simply change their belief or express a change in belief. Montazeri defines different types of apostasy; he argues that capital punishment should be reserved for those who desert Islam out of malice and enmity towards the Muslim community, and not those who convert to another religion after investigation and research.\n\nThe charge of apostasy is often used by religious authorities to condemn and punish skeptics, dissidents, and minorities in their communities. From the earliest history of Islam, the crime of apostasy and execution for apostasy has driven major events in Islam. For example, the Ridda wars (civil wars of apostasy) shook the Muslim community in 632-633 AD, immediately after the death of Muhammad. These apostasy wars split the two major sects of Islam – Sunni and Shia, and caused numerous deaths. Sunni and Shia sects of Islam have long called each other as apostates of Islam.\n\nThe term \"Zindīq\" refers to a freethinker, atheist or a heretic. Originally it referred to a dualist and also the Manichaeans, whose religion for a time threatened to become the dominant religion of the educated class and who experienced a wave of persecutions from 779 to 786. A history of those times states:\n\n\"The New Encyclopedia of Islam\" states that after the early period, with some notable exceptions, the practice in Islam regarding atheism or various forms of heresy, grew more tolerant as long as it was a private matter. However heresy and atheism expressed in public may well be considered a scandal and a menace to a society; in some societies they are punishable, at least to the extent the perpetrator is silenced. In particular, blasphemy against God and insulting Muhammad are major crimes.\n\nFrom the 7th century through the 18th century, atheists, materialists, Sufi, and Shii sects were accused and executed for apostasy in Islam. In the 8th century, apostates of Islam were killed in West Asia and Sind. 10th-century Iraq, Sufi mystic Al-Hallaj was executed for apostasy; in 12th-century Iran, al-Suhrawardi along with followers of Ismaili sect of Islam were killed on charges of being apostates; in 14th-century Syria, Ibn Taymiyyah declared Central Asian Turko-Mongol Muslims as apostates due to the invasion of Ghazan Khan; in 17th-century India, Dara Shikoh and other sons of Shah Jahan were captured and executed on charges of apostasy from Islam by his brother Aurangzeb.\n\nOther sources say that executions of apostates have been \"rare in Islamic history\". While Al-Hallaj was officially executed for possessing a heretical document suggesting hajj pilgrimage was not required of a pure Muslim, it is thought he would have been spared execution except that the Caliph at the time Al-Muqtadir wished to discredit \"certain figures who had associated themselves\" with al-Hallaj. (Previously al-Hallaj had been punished for talking about being at one with God by being shaved, pilloried and beaten with the flat of a sword. He was not executed because the Shafi'ite judge had ruled that his words were not \"proof of disbelief.\") According to historian Bernard Lewis, in the \"early times\" of Islam, \"charges of apostasy were not unusual, and ... the terms `unbeliever` and `apostate` were commonly used in religious polemic ... in fact such accusations had little practical effect. The accused were for the most part unmolested, and some even held high offices in the Muslim state. As the rules and penalties of the Muslim law were systematized and more regularly enforced, charges of apostasy became rarer.\" When action was taken against an alleged apostate, it was much more likely to be \"quarantine\" than execution, unless the innovation was \"extreme, persistent and aggressive\".\n\nDuring the colonial era, death for apostasy was abolished in many Muslim-majority colonies. Similarly, under intense European pressure, death sentence for apostasy from Islam was abolished by the Edict of Toleration, and substituted with other forms of punishment by the Ottoman government in 1844; the implementation of this ban was resisted by religious officials and proved difficult. A series of edicts followed during Ottoman's Tanzimat period, such as the 1856 Reform Edict. Despite these edicts, there was constant pressure on non-Muslims to convert to Islam, and apostates from Islam continued to be persecuted, punished and threatened with execution, particularly in eastern and Levant parts of the then Ottoman Empire. The Edict of Toleration ultimately failed when Sultan Abdul Hamid II assumed power, re-asserted pan-Islamism with sharia as Ottoman state philosophy, and initiated Hamidian massacres in 1894 against Christians, particularly of Armenians, Assyrians and crypto-Christian apostates from Islam in Turkey (Stavriotes, Kromlides).\n\nIn \"recent decades\" before 2006, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom listed four cases of execution for apostasy in the Muslim world: one in Sudan in 1985; two in Iran, in 1989 and 1998; and one in Saudi Arabia in 1992.\n\nMore than 20 Muslim-majority states have laws that declare apostasy by Muslims to be a crime. As of 2014, apostasy was a capital offense in Afghanistan, Brunei, Mauritania, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, the United Arab Emirates, and Yemen. Executions for religious conversion have been infrequent in recent times, with four cases reported since 1985: one in Sudan in 1985; two in Iran, in 1989 and 1998; and one in Saudi Arabia in 1992. In Mauritania, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Yemen apostasy laws have been used to charge persons for acts other than conversion. In addition, some predominantly Islamic countries without laws specifically addressing apostasy have prosecuted individuals or minorities for apostasy using broadly-defined blasphemy laws. In many nations, the Hisbah doctrine of Islam has traditionally allowed any Muslim to accuse another Muslim or ex-Muslim for beliefs that may harm Islamic society. This principle has been used in countries such as Egypt, Pakistan and others to bring blasphemy charges against apostates.\n\nThe violence or threats of violence against apostates in the Muslim world in recent years has derived primarily not from government authorities but from other individuals or groups operating unrestricted by the government. There has also been social persecution for Muslims converting to Christianity. For example, the Christian organisation Barnabas Fund reports:\nSimilar views are expressed by the non-theistic International Humanist and Ethical Union.\n\nA survey based on face-to-face interviews conducted in 80 languages by the Pew Research Center between 2008 and 2012 among thousands of Muslims in many countries, found varied views on the death penalty for those who leave Islam to become an atheist or to convert to another religion. In this survey, Muslims who favored making Sharia the law of the land were asked for their views on the death penalty for apostasy from Islam. The results are summarized in the table below. Note that values for \"Group C\" have been derived from the values for the other two groups and are not part of the Pew report. These values do not include Muslims who may not support sharia but do support the death penalty for apostasy.\n\nOverall, the figures in the 2012 survey suggest that the percentage of Muslims in the countries surveyed who approve the death penalty for Muslims who leave Islam to become an atheist or convert to another religion varies widely, from 0.4% (in Kazakhstan) to 78.2% (in Afghanistan). The Governments of the Gulf Cooperation Council (Saudi Arabia, UAE, Oman, Qatar, Bahrain and Kuwait) did not permit Pew Research to survey nationwide public opinion on apostasy in 2010 or 2012. The survey also did not include China, India, Syria, or West African countries such as Nigeria.\n\nArticle 130 of the Afghan Constitution requires its courts to apply provisions of Hanafi Sunni fiqh for crimes of apostasy in Islam. Article 1 of the Afghan Penal Code requires hudud crimes be punished per Hanafi religious jurisprudence. Prevailing Hanafi jurisprudence, per consensus of its school of Islamic scholars, prescribes death penalty for the crime of apostasy. The apostate can avoid prosecution and/or punishment if he or she confesses of having made a mistake of apostasy and rejoins Islam.\nIn addition to death, the family of the accused can be deprived of all property and possessions, and the individual's marriage is considered dissolved in accordance with Hanafi Sunni jurisprudence.\n\nIn March 2006, an Afghan citizen Abdul Rahman was charged with apostasy and could have faced the death penalty for converting to Christianity. His case attracted much international attention with Western countries condemning Afghanistan for persecuting a convert. Charges against Abdul Rahman were dismissed on technical grounds by the Afghan court after intervention by the president Hamid Karzai. He was released and left the country to find refuge in Italy.\n\nTwo other Afghan converts to Christianity, Sayed Mussa and Shoaib Assadullah, were arrested back in March 2006. In February 2006, the homes of yet other converts were raided by police. After serving five years in jail, Sayed Mussa was released in 2011, and Shoaib Assadullah was released in March 2011.\n\nIn 2012, secular university teacher Javeed from Ghazni Province wrote an article criticising the Taliban in English. The Taliban tried to seize him, but he and his wife Marina, a well-known Afgan television host, decided to flee to the Netherlands. When in 2014 it was translated to Pashto by powerful warlord Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's son-in-law, this led to an uproar on social media with many accusations of apostasy and death threats directed at Javeed, and a large public demonstration in Kabul calling for his execution.\n\nIn late 2015, 21-year-old student and ex-Muslim atheist Morid Aziz had a religious argument with his girlfriend Shogofa, once a liberal Muslim, but radicalised whilst studying Sharia. She secretly recorded the conversation, during which he criticised Islam, and begged her to 'forsake the darkness and embrace science', but she called him a \"kafir\" and said he would burn in hell. The next day, she played the recording at the Friday prayer in a full mosque. Aziz was inundated with questions from relatives about how he had dared to say what he said, and he quickly went into hiding just before angry men armed with Kalashnikovs showed up at his house. 23 days later, he fled across several countries and ended up in the Netherlands, where he obtained permanent residency on 30 May 2017.\n\nFreedom of religion in Algeria is regulated by the Algerian Constitution, which declares Sunni Islam to be the state religion (Article 2) but also declares that \"freedom of creed and opinion is inviolable\" (Article 36); it prohibits discrimination, Article 29 states \"All citizens are equal before the law. No discrimination shall prevail because of birth, race, sex, opinion or any other personal or social condition or circumstance\".\n\nAccording to Pew Research Center in 2010, 97.9% of Algerians were Muslim, 1.8% were unaffiliated, with the remaining 0.3% comprising adherents of other religions.\n\nBy law, children follow the religion of their fathers, even if they are born abroad and are citizens of their (non-Muslim-majority) country of birth. The study of Islam is a requirement in the public and private schools for every Algerian child, irrespective of his/her religion. Although the educational reform of 2006 eliminated \"Islamic sciences\" from the baccalaureate, Islamic studies are mandatory in public schools at primary level and followed by Sharia studies at secondary level. Concerns have been expressed that requests by non-Muslim religious students to opt out of these classes would result in discrimination.\n\nMuslim women cannot marry non-Muslim men (Algerian Family Code I.II.31), and Muslim men may not marry women of non-monotheistic religious groups. Prior to the 2005 amendments, family law stated that if it is established that either spouse is an \"apostate\" from Islam, the marriage will be declared null and void (Family Code I.III.32). The term \"apostate\" was removed with the amendments, however those determined as such still cannot receive any inheritance (Family Code III.I.138).\n\nPeople without religious affiliation tend to be particularly numerous in Kabylie (a Kabyle-speaking area) where they are generally tolerated and sometimes supported. Notably, Berber civil rights, human rights and secular activist and musician Lounès Matoub (assassinated in 1998) is widely seen as a hero among Kabyles, despite (or because of) his lack of religion. In most other areas of the country, the non-religious tend to be more discreet, and often pretend to be pious Muslims to avoid violence and lynching.\n\nThe majority of cases of harassment and security threats against non-Muslims come from the now nearly destroyed Armed Islamic Group, an organization fighting the government who are determined to rid the country of those who do not share their extremist interpretation of Islam. However, a majority of the population subscribes to Islamic precepts of tolerance in religious beliefs. Moderate Islamist religious and political leaders have criticized publicly acts of violence committed in the name of Islam.\n\nThe \"blasphemy\" law is stringent and widely enforced. The non-religious are largely invisible in the public sphere, and although not specifically targeted through legislation, significant prejudice towards non-Muslim religions can be presumed to apply equally if not more so to non-believers. The crime of \"blasphemy\" carries a maximum of five years in prison and the laws are interpreted widely. For example, several arrests have been made under the blasphemy laws in the last few years for failure to fast during Ramadan, even though this is not a requirement under Algerian law. Non-fasting persons (\"non-jeûneurs\") repeatedly face harassment by the police and civil society. Eating in public during Ramadan (particularly for people who \"look Muslim\") is legal, but attracts public hostility in most areas, except for some areas of Kabylie. Most restaurants close during Ramadan.\n\nIn general, non-citizens who practice faiths other than Islam enjoy a high level of tolerance within society; however, citizens who renounce Islam generally are ostracized by their families and shunned by their neighbors. Those who \"renounce\" Islam may be imprisoned, fined, or co-erced to re-convert. The Government generally does not become involved in such disputes. Converts also expose themselves to the risk of attack by radical extremists.\n\nBangladesh does not have a law against apostasy, but incidences of persecution of apostates have been reported. ome Bangladeshi Imams have encouraged the killing of converts from Islam. The radical Islamist group Hefazat-e-Islam Bangladesh, founded in 2010, created a hit list which included 83 outspoken atheist or secularist activists, including ex-Muslim bloggers and academics. Dozens of atheist and secularist Bangladeshis on this list have been targeted for practicing free speech and \"disrespecting\" Islam, such as Humayun Azad, who was the target of a failed machete assassination attempt, and Avijit Roy, who was killed with meat cleavers; his wife Bonya Ahmed survived the attack. Since 2013, 8 of the 83 people on the hit list have been killed; 31 others have fled the country.\n\nIn the Western European country of Belgium, Muslims made up about 5 to 7% of the total population as of 2015. Although legally anyone is free to change their religion, there is a social taboo on apostatising from Islam. Moroccan-Belgian stand-up comedian Sam Touzani is a rare example an outspoken ex-Muslim; he was condemned by several fatwas and has received hundreds of death threats online, but persists in his criticism of Islam and Islamism.\n\nA Movement of Ex-Muslims of Belgium exists to support apostates from Islam, and to 'fight Islamic indoctrination'. As of 2014, it had a dozen members, who had to operate carefully and often anonymously. Additionally, Belgian academics such as Maarten Boudry and Johan Leman have led efforts to try to normalize leaving Islam in Belgium. On 16 November 2017, 25-year-old Hamza, shunned by his family (except for his supportive sister), came out as an ex-Muslim on television. He was seconded by philosopher and ex-Catholic Patrick Loobuyck, who argued that secularisation in the West gives Western Muslims such as the opportunity to embrace religious liberalism and even atheism.\n\nDuring the Ottoman Turkish Muslim rule of Bosnia and Herzegovina (1463–1878), a large minority of the Southern Slavic-speaking inhabitants converted to Islam for various reasons, whilst others remained Roman Catholics (later known as Croats) or Orthodox Christians (later known as Serbs). These converts and their descendants were simply known as \"Bosnian Muslims\" or just \"Muslims\", until the term Bosniaks was adopted in 1993. Not all Bosniaks (still) practice Islam nowadays; some may just be \"Muslim\" by name or cultural background, but not by conviction, profession or practice. In a 1998 public opinion poll, just 78.3% of Bosniaks in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared themselves to be religious.\n\nThe Ottomans punished apostasy from Islam with the death penalty until the Edict of Toleration 1844; subsequently, apostates could be imprisoned or deported instead. When Austria-Hungary occupied Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878, this practice was abolished. The Austrian government held that any mature citizen was free to convert to another religion without having to fear any legal penalty, and issued a directive to its officials to keep their involvement in religious matters to a minimum. This clashed with the rigorous hostility to conversion exhibited by traditional Bosnian Muslims, who perceived it as a threat to the survival of Islam. During the four decades of Habsburg rule, several apostasy controversies occurred, most often involving young women with a low socio-economic status who sought to convert to Christianity.\n\nIn August 1890, during the Austro-Hungarian rule in Bosnia and Herzegovina, a sixteen-year-old Bosnian girl called Uzeifa Delahmatović claimed to have voluntarily converted from Islam to Catholicism, the Habsburg state's official and majority religion. This stirred up controversy about whether she was forced, or whether a Muslim was even allowed to change her or his religion. Subsequent debates resulted in the Austrian Conversion Ordinance of 1891, which made religious conversion of subjects a matter of state. A strict procedure required the convert to be an adult and mentally healthy, and the conversion should be recognised by all parties involved; if not, the state would intervene and set up a commission for arbitration.\n\nIn the 20th century, religion became highly politicised in Bosnia, and the basis for most citizens' national identity and political loyalty, leading to numerous conflicts culminating in the Bosnian War (1992–5). The resulting violence and misery has caused a group of Bosnians to reject religion (and nationalism) altogether. This atheist community faces discrimination, and is frequently verbally attacked by religious leaders as \"corrupt people without morals\".\n\nBrunei is the latest Muslim-majority country to enact a law that makes apostasy a crime punishable with death. In 2013, it enacted Syariah (Sharia) Penal Code. Section 112(1) of the new law states that a Muslim who declares himself non-Muslim commits a crime punishable with death, or with imprisonment for a term not exceeding thirty years, depending on evidence. Under the required wait period between notification of law and its validity under Brunei's constitution, its new apostasy law and corporal punishment will be applied starting October 2014, and capital punishment will be imposed starting October 2015.\n\nThe blasphemy laws and Article 98(f) of Egyptian Penal Code, as amended by Law 147, has been used to prosecute Muslims who have converted to Christianity. For example, in May 2007, Bahaa El-Din El-Akkad, a former Egyptian Muslim and someone who worked on Dawah to spread Islam, was imprisoned after he converted to Christianity, under the charge of \"blasphemy against Islam\". He was freed in 2011.\n\nEgypt's penal code is silent about any punishment for apostasy from Islam. Contemporary Egyptian jurisprudence prohibits apostasy from Islam, but has also remained silent about the death penalty. Article 2 of the Constitution of Egypt enshrines sharia. Both Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court of Egypt have ruled that, \"it is completely acceptable for non-Muslims to embrace Islam but by consensus Muslims are not allowed to embrace another religion or to become of no religion at all [in Egypt].\" The silence about punishment for apostasy along with the constitutional enshrinement of Sharia, means the death sentence for apostasy is a possibility. In practice, Egypt has prosecuted apostasy from Islam under its blasphemy laws using the Hisbah doctrine; and non-state Islamic groups have taken the law into their own hands and executed apostates.\n\nA 2010 Pew Research Center poll showed that 84% of Egyptian Muslims believe those who leave Islam should be punished by death.\n\nIn 1992, Islamist militants gunned down Egyptian secularist and sharia law opponent Farag Foda. Before his death he had been declared an apostate and foe of Islam by the ulama at Al Azhar. During the trial of the murderers, Al-Azhar scholar Mohammed al-Ghazali testified that when the state fails to punish apostates, somebody else has to do it.\n\nIn 1993, a liberal Islamic theologian, Nasr Abu Zayd was denied promotion at Cairo University after a court decision of apostasy against him. Following this an Islamist lawyer filed a lawsuit before the Giza Lower Personal Status Court demanding the divorce of Abu Zayd from his wife, Dr. Ibtihal Younis, on the grounds that a Muslim woman cannot be married to an apostate – notwithstanding the fact his wife wished to remain married to him. The case went to the Cairo Appeals Court where his marriage was declared null and void in 1995. After the verdict, the Egyptian Islamic Jihad organization (which had assassinated Egyptian president Anwar Sadat in 1981) declared Abu Zayd should be killed for abandoning his Muslim faith. Abu Zayd was given police protection, but felt he could not function under heavy guard, noting that one police guard referred to him as \"the kafir\". On 23 July 1995, he and his wife flew to Europe, where they lived in exile but continued to teach.\n\nIn April 2006, after a court case in Egypt recognized the Bahá'í Faith, members of the clergy convinced the government to appeal the court decision. One member of parliament, Gamal Akl of the opposition Muslim Brotherhood, said the Bahá'ís were infidels who should be killed on the grounds that they had changed their religion, this despite the fact that most living Bahá'í have not, in fact, ever been Muslim.\n\nIn October 2006, Kareem Amer became the first Egyptian to be prosecuted for their online writings, including declaring himself an atheist. He was imprisoned until November 2010.\n\nIn 2007 Mohammed Hegazy, a Muslim-born Egyptian who had converted to Christianity based on \"readings and comparative studies in religions\", sued the Egyptian court to change his religion from \"Islam\" to \"Christianity\" on his national identification card. His case caused considerable public uproar, with not only Muslim clerics, but his own father and wife's father calling for his death. Two lawyers he had hired or agreed to hire both quit his case, and two Christian human rights workers thought to be involved in his case were arrested. As of 2007, he and his wife were in hiding. In 2008, the judge trying his case ruled that according to sharia, Islam is the final and most complete religion and therefore Muslims already practice full freedom of religion and cannot convert to an older belief. Hegazy kept trying to officially change his religion until he was arrested in 2013 for \"spreading false rumours and incitement\". He was released in 2016, after which he published a video on YouTube claiming he had reverted to Islam, and asked to be left alone.\n\nIn February 2009, another case of a convert to Christianity (Maher Ahmad El-Mo'otahssem Bellah El-Gohary), came to court. El-Gohary's effort to officially convert to Christianity triggered state prosecutors charging him of \"apostasy,\" or leaving Islam, and seeking a sentence of death penalty.\n\nSome commentators have reported a growing trend of abandoning religion following the Egyptian Revolution of 2011, reflected through emergence of support groups on social media, although openly declared apostates still face ostracism and danger of prosecution and vigilante violence. A well-known example is the Internet activist Aliaa Magda Elmahdy (then-girlfriend of Kareem Amer), who protested the oppression of women's rights and sexuality in Islam by posting a nude photo of herself online. In 2011, the Muslim woman Abeer allegedly converted to Christianity, and was given protection by the Church of Saint Menas in Imbaba. Hundreds of angry salafists beleaguered the church and demanded her return; during the resulting clashes, ten people were killed and hundreds were wounded.\nOn 21 October 2014, ex-Muslim atheist activist Ahmed Harqan featured in a debate on the popular Egyptian talk show \"Taht al Koubry\" (\"Under the Bridge\"). He explained why he had become an atheist and said that Islam is a \"harsh religion\", which was being implemented by Islamic State (ISIS) and Boko Haram. They are doing \"what the Prophet Muhammad and his companions did,\" said Harqan. Four days later, in the evening of 25 October, he and his pregnant wife Nada Mandour (Saly) Harqan (also an atheist), were attacked by a lynch mob and escaped assassination when they fled to a nearby police station. Instead of taking action to help Harqan and his wife, the police officers further assaulted them and they were imprisoned, charged with blasphemy and \"defamation of religion\" under article 98 in the Egyptian penal code for asking \"What has ISIS done that Muhammad did not do?\" on the talk show. Harqan's appearance provoked weeks of outcry from Islamic religious broadcasters and prompted much-watched follow-up shows. On 3 November 2015, Harqan was invited to debate on Al-Assema TV, where he got into an argument with the host, Rania Mahmoud Yassin (daughter of actor Mahmoud Yacine), whom he claimed was not objective and fair. The discussion barely focused on religion itself, and mainly about Harqan's claim that in a debate the host should be impartial to ensure a balanced exchange. However, Yassin maintained an anti-atheist position and said that they had only invited Harqan on the show \"so that people can learn a lesson from atheism, heresy, and all those disgraceful phenomena in society\", whereupon Harqan stood up and left the show in protest.\n\nIndonesia does not have a law against apostasy, and the constitution provides for freedom of religion, accords \"all persons shall be free to choose and to practice the religion of his/her choice\". But Indonesia has as a broad blasphemy law that protects all six official religions (Islam, Protestantism, Catholicism, Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism) (Article 156) and a Presidential Decree (1965) that permits prosecution of people who commit blasphemy. The Decree prohibits every Indonesian from \"intentionally conveying, endorsing or attempting to gain public support in the interpretation of a certain religion; or undertaking religious based activities that resemble the religious activities of the religion in question, where such interpretation and activities are in deviation of the basic teachings of the religion.\" These laws have been used to arrest and convict atheist apostates in Indonesia, such as the case of 30-year old Alexander Aan who declared himself to be an atheist, declared \"God does not exist\", and stopped praying and fasting as required by Islam. He received death threats from Islamic groups and in 2012 was arrested and sentenced to two and a half years in prison.\n\nThe 1988 executions of Iranian political prisoners, starting near the end of the Iran–Iraq War (1980–1988), were carried out by \"Special Commissions with instructions to execute members of People's Mojahedin Organization of Iran as \"moharebs\" (those who war against Allah) and leftists as \"mortads\" (apostates from Islam).\" It is unclear how many prisoners were killed (estimates vary from almost 4,500 to more than 30,000), how many of them actually were ex-Muslims or were falsely accused of having left Islam, and the exact motivations behind this massacre. Great care was taken to keep the killings undercover, and the government of Iran currently denies their having taken place. Justifications offered for the alleged executions vary, but one of the most common theories advanced is that they were in retaliation for the 1988 attack on the western borders of Iran by the PMOI Mujahedin. However, this does not fully account for the targeting of other leftist groups who opposed the Mujahedin invasion.\n\nSalman Rushdie is a prominent contemporary figure accused of apostasy. In 1989 a fatwa was issued by Ayatollah Khomeini, the ruler of Iran at the time, calling for the death of Salman Rushdie for the blasphemy of authoring the book \"The Satanic Verses\".\n\nHossein Soodmand, who converted from Islam to Christianity when he was 13 years old, was executed by hanging in 1990 for apostasy.\n\nAccording to US think tank Freedom House, since the 1990s the Islamic Republic of Iran has sometimes used death squads against converts, including major Protestant leaders. Under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the regime has engaged in a systematic campaign to track down and reconvert or kill those who have changed their religion from Islam.\n\n15 ex-Muslim Christians were incarcerated on 15 May 2008 under charges of apostasy. They may face the death penalty if convicted. A new penal code is being proposed in Iran that would require the death penalty in cases of apostasy on the Internet.\n\nAt least two Iranians – Hashem Aghajari and Hassan Youssefi Eshkevari – have been arrested and charged with apostasy in the Islamic Republic (though not executed), not for self-professed conversion to another faith, but for statements and/or activities deemed by courts of the Islamic Republic to be in violation of Islam, and that appear to outsiders to be Islamic reformist political expression. Hashem Aghajari, was found guilty of apostasy for a speech urging Iranians to \"not blindly follow\" Islamic clerics; Hassan Youssefi Eshkevari was charged with apostasy for attending the 'Iran After the Elections' Conference in Berlin Germany which was disrupted by anti-regime demonstrators.\n\nThe Bahá'ís in Iran, the nation of origin of the Bahá'í Faith and Iran's largest religious minority, were accused of apostasy in the 19th century by the Shi'a clergy because of their adherence to religious revelations by another prophet after those of Muhammad. These allegations led to mob attacks, public executions and torture of early Bahais, including the Báb. More recently, Musa Talibi was arrested in 1994, and Dhabihu'llah Mahrami was arrested in 1995, then sentenced to death on charges of apostasy.\n\nIn July 2017, an activist group that spread atheistic articles and books Iranian universities, published a video on YouTube titled \"Why we must deny the existence of God\", featuring famous atheist thinkers Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Christopher Hitchens and Daniel Dennett. An hour before the group would meet to discuss the production of a new video, their office was raided by the police. Group member Keyvan (32), raised as a Sunni Muslim but confusingly educated in a Shia school, long had doubts about religion, and became an apostate after reading atheist literature. He and his wife had to flee after the police raid, and flew to the Netherlands three days later.\n\nAlthough the Constitution of Iraq recognizes Islam as the official religion and states that no law may be enacted that contradicts the established provisions of Islam, it also guarantees freedom of thought, conscience, and religious belief and practice. While the Government generally endorses these rights, unsettled conditions have prevented effective governance in parts of the country, and the Government's ability to protect religious freedoms has been handicapped by insurgency, terrorism, and sectarian violence. Since 2003, when the government of Saddam Hussein fell, the Iraqi government has generally not engaged in state-sponsored persecution of any religious group, calling instead for tolerance and acceptance of all religious minorities.\n\nIn October 2013, 15-year-old Ahmad Sherwan from Erbil said he no longer believed in God and was proud to be an atheist to his father, who had the police arrest him. He was imprisoned for 13 days and tortured several times, before being released on bail; he faced life imprisonment for disbelief in God. Sherwan tried to contact the media for seven months, but all refused to run his story until the private newspaper \"Awene\" published it in May 2014. It went viral, and human rights activists came to his aid.\n\nThe 2014 uprising of the Islamic State (IS or ISIS) has led to violations of religious freedom in certain parts of Iraq. ISIS follows an extreme anti-Western interpretation of Islam, promotes religious violence and regards those who do not agree with its interpretations as infidels or apostates.\n\nIn the 2010s, an increasing number of Iraqis, especially young people in the capital city of Baghdad and the Kurdistan Region, were leaving Islam for a variety of reasons. Some cite the lack of women's rights in Islam, others the political climate, which is dominated by conflicts between Shia Muslim parties who seek to expand their power more than they try to improve citizens' living conditions. Many young ex-Muslims sought refuge in the Iraqi Communist Party, and advocated for secularism from within its ranks. The sale of books on atheism by authors such as Abdullah al-Qasemi and Richard Dawkins has risen in Baghdad. In Iraqi Kurdistan, a 2011 AK-News survey asking whether respondents believed God existed, resulted in 67% replying 'yes', 21% 'probably', 4% 'probably not', 7% 'no' and 1% had no answer. The subsequent harsh battle against Islamic State and its literalist implementation of Sharia caused numerous youths to dissociate themselves from Islam altogether, either by adopting Zoroastrianism or secretly embracing atheism.\n\nWhen Sadr al-Din learned about natural selection in school, he began questioning the relationship between Islam and science, studying the history of Islam, and asking people's opinions on both topics. At the age of 20, he changed his first name to Daniel, after atheist philosopher Daniel Dennett. He came into conflict with his family, who threatened him with death, and after his father found books in his room denying the existence of God and miracles, he tried to shoot his son. Daniel fled Iraq, and obtained asylum in the Netherlands.\n\nIslam in Jordan does not explicitly ban apostasy in its penal code; however, it permits any Jordanian to charge another with apostasy and its Islamic courts to consider conversion trials. If an Islamic court convicts a person of apostasy, it has the power to sentence a prison term, annul that person's marriage, seize property and disqualify him or her from inheritance rights. The Jordanian poet Islam Samhan was accused of apostasy for poems he wrote in 2008, and sentenced to a prison term in 2009.\n\nKosovo was conquered by the Ottoman Empire along with the other remnants of the Serbian Empire in the period following the Battle of Kosovo (1389). Although the Ottomans didn't force the Catholic and Orthodox Christian population to convert to Islam, there was strong social pressure (such as not having to pay the jizya) as well as political expediency to do so, which ethnic Albanians did in far greater numbers (including the entire nobility) than Serbs, Greeks and others in the region. Many Albanian Catholics converted to Islam in the 17th and 18th centuries, despite attempts by Roman Catholic clergy to stop them, including a strict condemnation of conversion – especially for opportunistic reasons such as jizya evasion – during the \"Concilium Albanicum\", a meeting of Albanian bishops in 1703. Whilst many of these converts stayed crypto-Catholics to a certain extent, often helped by pragmatic lower clerics, the higher Catholic clergy ordered them to be denied the sacraments for their heresy. Efforts to convert the laraman community of Letnica back to Catholicism began in 1837, but the effort was violently suppressed – the local Ottoman governor put laramans in jail. After the Ottoman Empire abolished the death penalty for apostasy from Islam by the Edict of Toleration 1844, several groups of crypto-Catholics in Prizren, Peja and Gjakova were recognised as Catholics by the Ottoman Grand Vizier in 1845. When the laramans of Letnica asked the district governor and judge in Gjilan to recognise them as Catholics, they were refused however, and subsequently imprisoned, and then deported to Anatolia, from where they returned in November 1848 following diplomatic intervention. In 1856, a further Tanzimat reform improved the situation, and no further serious abuse was reported. The bulk of conversion of laramans, almost exclusively newly-borns, took place between 1872 and 1924.\n\nAccording to a 2002 journal paper, Kuwait does not have a law that criminalizes apostasy. In practice, Kuwait's family law prosecutes apostates. If an Islamic family court convicts a Muslim of apostasy, the court has the power to annul that person's marriage and disqualify him/her from property and inheritance rights. For example, the prosecution of Hussein Qambar Ali in an Islamic family court, on charges of apostasy, after he converted from Islam to Christianity. Theoretically, death penalty can also be pronounced.\n\nBlasphemy is criminalized. Law 111 of Kuwait's Penal Code allows usage of statements posted on internet as evidence of blasphemy.\n\nAtheism is prohibited in Libya and can come with a death penalty, if one is charged as an atheist.\n\nIn June 2013, Libya's General National Council assembly (GNC) voted to make Islamic Sharia law the basis for all legislation and for all state institutions, a decision having an impact in banking, criminal, and financial law.\nIn February 2016, Libya's General National Council assembly (GNC) released adecree No.20 Changing on provisions of the Libyan Penal Code.\n\nMalaysia does not have a national law that criminalizes apostasy and its Article 11 grants freedom of religion to its diverse population of different religions. However, Malaysia's constitution grants its states (\"Negeri\") the power to create and enforce laws relating to Islamic matters and Muslim community. State laws in Kelantan and Terengganu make apostasy in Islam a crime punishable with death, while state laws of Perak, Malacca, Sabah, and Pahang declare apostasy by Muslims as a crime punishable with jail terms. In these states, apostasy is defined as conversion from Islam to another faith, but converting to Islam is not a crime. The central government has not attempted to nullify these state laws, but stated that any death sentence for apostasy would require review by national courts. Ex-Muslims can be fined, jailed or sent for counselling.\n\nNational laws of Malaysia require Muslim apostates who seek to convert from Islam to another religion to first obtain approval from a sharia court. The procedure demands that anyone born to a Muslim parent, or who previously converted to Islam, must declare himself apostate of Islam before a Sharia court if he or she wants to convert. The Sharia courts have the power to impose penalties such as jail, caning and enforced \"rehabilitation\" on apostates – which is the typical practice. In the states of Perak, Malacca, Sabah, and Pahang, apostates of Islam face jail term; in Pahang, caning; others, confinement with rehabilitation process.\n\nThe state laws of Malaysia allow apostates of other religion to become Muslim without any equivalent review or process. The state laws of Perak, Kedah, Negeri Sembilan, Sarawak, and Malacca allow one parent to convert children to Islam even if the other parent does not consent to his or her child's conversion to Islam.\n\nIn a highly public case, the Malaysian Federal Court did not allow Lina Joy to change her religion status in her I/C in a 2–1 decision.\n\nIn August 2017, a picture from a gathering of the Atheist Republic Consulate of Kuala Lumpur was posted on Atheist Republic's Facebook page. Deputy Minister of Islamic Affairs Asyraf Wajdi Dusuki ordered an inquiry into whether anyone in the picture had committed apostasy or had 'spread atheism' to any Muslims present, both of which are illegal in Malaysia. The next day, Minister in the Prime Minister's Department Shahidan Kassim stated atheists should be \"hunted down\", as there was no place for groups like this under the Federal Constitution. Atheist Republic (AR) members present at the gathering reportedly received death threats on social media. Canada-based AR leader Armin Navabi asked: \"How is this group harming anyone?\", warning that such actions by the government damaged Malaysia's reputation as a \"moderate\" Muslim-majority (60%) country. The uploads sparked violent protests from some Malaysians calling Navabi an 'apostate' and threatening to behead him. A Kuala Lumpur AR Consulate admin told \"BBC OS\" that such meetings are just socialising events for 'people who are legally Muslim, and atheists, and people from other religions as well'. In November 2017, it was reported that Facebook had rejected a joint government and Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission demand to shut down Atheist Republic's page and similar atheist pages, because the pages did not violate any of the company's community standards.\n\nThe Constitution of the Maldives designates Islam as the official state religion, and the government and many citizens at all levels interpret this provision to impose a requirement that all citizens must be Muslims. The Constitution states the president must be a Sunni Muslim. There is no freedom of religion or belief. This situation leads to institutionally sanctioned religious oppression against non-Muslims and ex-Muslims who currently reside in the country.\n\nOn 27 April 2014, the Maldives ratified a new regulation that revived the death penalty (abolished in 1953, when the last execution took place) for a number of \"hudud\" offences, including apostasy for persons from the age of 7 and older. The new regulation was strongly criticised by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the EU's High Representative, pointing out that they violated the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which the Maldives have ratified, that ban the execution of anyone for offences committed before the age of 18.\n\nDuring a question-and-answer session at one of Indian Muslim orator Zakir Naik's lectures 29 May 2010 on the Maldives, 37-year-old Maldivian citizen Mohamed Nazim stated that he was struggling to believe in any religion, and did not consider himself to be a Muslim. He further asked what his verdict would be under Islam and in the Maldives. Zakir responded that he considers the punishment for apostasy not necessarily to mean death, since Muhammed was reported in the Hadith scriptures to have shown clemency towards apostates on some occasions, but added that \"If the person who becomes a non-Muslim propagates his faith and speaks against Islam [where] there is Islamic rule, then the person is to be put to death.\" Mohamed Nazim was subsequently reported to have been arrested and put in protective custody by the Maldivian Police. He later publicly reverted to Islam in custody after receiving two days of counseling by two Islamic scholars, but was held awaiting possible charges.\n\nOn 14 July 2010, Maldivian news site \"Minivan News\" reported that 25-year-old air traffic controller Ismail Mohamed Didi had sent two e-mails, dated 25 June, to an international human rights organisation, declaring that he was an atheist ex-Muslim and that he desired help with his asylum application (directed to the United Kingdom). This came after he had \"foolishly admitted my stance on religion\" to his colleagues at work two years earlier, word of which had \"spread like wildfire\", and led to increased repression from colleagues, family, and even his closest friends shunning him, and anonymous death threats over the telephone. The same day that the report was posted, Didi was found hanged at his workplace in the aircraft control tower at Malé International Airport in an apparent suicide.\n\nArticle 306 of the criminal code of Mauritania declares apostasy in Islam as illegal and provides a death sentence for the crime of leaving Islam. Its law provides a provision where the guilty is given the opportunity to repent and return to Islam within three days. Failure to do so leads to a death sentence, dissolution of family rights and property confiscation by the government. The Mauritanian law requires that an apostate who has repented should be placed in custody and jailed for a period for the crime. Article 306 reads:\n\nAll Muslims guilty of apostasy, either spoken or by overt action will be asked to repent during a period of three days. If he does not repent during this period, he is condemned to death as an apostate, and his belongings confiscated by the State Treasury.\n\nIn 2014, Jemal Oumar, a Mauritanian journalist, was arrested for apostasy, after he posted a critique of Mohammad online. While local law enforcement agencies held him in prison for trial, local media announced offers by local Muslims of cash reward to anyone who would kill Jemal Oumar.\nIn a separate case, Mohamed Mkhaitir, a Mauritanian engineer, was arrested with the accusation of apostasy and blasphemy in 2014 as well, for publishing an essay on the racist caste system in Mauritanian society with criticism of Islamic history and a claim that Mohammad discriminated in his treatment of people from different tribes and races. Supported by pressure from human rights activists and international diplomats, Mkhaitir's case was reviewed several times, amid public civilian protests calling for him to be killed. On 8 November 2017 the Court of Appeals decided to convert his death sentence into a two-year jail term, which he had already served, so he was expected to be released soon. However, by May 2018 he still had not been released according to human rights groups.\n\nThe penal code of Morocco does not impose the death penalty for apostasy. However, Islam is the official state religion of Morocco under its constitution. Article 41 of the Moroccan constitution gives fatwa powers (habilitée, religious decree legislation) to the Supreme Council of Religious Scholars, which issued a religious decree, or \"fatwa\", in April 2013 that Moroccan Muslims who leave Islam must be sentenced to death. However, Mahjoub El Hiba, a senior Moroccan government official, denied that the fatwa was in any way legally binding. This decree was retracted by the Moroccan High Religious Committee in February 2017 in a document titled \"The Way of the Scholars.\" It instead states that apostasy is a political stance rather than a religious issue, equatable to 'high treason'.\n\nWhen he was 14, Imad Iddine Habib came out as an atheist to his family, who expelled him. Habib stayed with friends, got a degree in Islamic studies and founded the Council of Ex-Muslims of Morocco in 2013. Secret services started investigating him after a public speech criticising Islam, and Habib fled to England, after which he was sentenced to seven years in prison in absentia.\n\nIn the Netherlands, a country in Western Europe, Muslims made up about 4.9% of the total population as of 2015; the rest of its inhabitants were either non-religious (50.1%), Christian (39.2%) or adherents of various other religions (5.7%). Although the freedom of expression, thought and religion is guaranteed by law in the Netherlands, there is doubt concerning the reality of this individual freedom within the small orthodox Christian minorities and within Muslim communities. The social and cultural pressure for those raised in a conservative religious family not to change or 'lose' religion can be high. This lack of 'horizontal' freedom (the freedom in relation to family, friends and neighborhood) remains a concern. Ex-Muslims often keep their views hidden from family, friends and the wider community.\nAyaan Hirsi Ali deconverted from Islam after seeing the September 11 attacks being justified by Al Qaeda's leader Osama bin Laden with verses from the Quran that she verified personally, and subsequently reading Herman Philipse's \"Atheïstisch manifest\" (\"Atheist Manifesto\"). She soon became a prominent critic of Islam amidst an increasing number of death threats from Islamists and thus a need for security. She was elected to Parliament in 2003 for the VVD, and co-producing Theo van Gogh's short film \"Submission\" (broadcast on 29 August 2004), which criticised the treatment of women in Islamic society. This led to even more death threats, and Van Gogh was assassinated on 2 November 2004 by jihadist terrorist Hofstad Network leader Mohammed Bouyeri. He threatened Hirsi Ali and other nonbelievers by writing that her \"apostasy had turned her away from the truth\", \"only death can separate truth from lies\", and that she would \"certainly perish\". Gone into hiding and heavily protected, she received a string of international awards, including one of \"Time\"s 100 most influential people of the world, for her efforts at highlighting Islam's violation of human rights, especially women's rights, before moving to the United States in 2006 following a Dutch political crisis over her citizenship.\n\nEhsan Jami, co-founder of the Central Committee for Ex-Muslims in the Netherlands in 2007, has received several death threats, and due to the amount of threats its members received, the Committee was dismantled in 2008. To fill this lacuna, the Dutch Humanist Association (HV) launched the Platform of New Freethinkers in 2015. There is a Dutch-speaking group for Muslim apostates born and/or raised in the Netherlands, and an English-speaking one for ex-Muslims who recently arrived in the Netherlands as refugees. The latter fled their country because they were discriminated against or confronted with threats, violence or persecution because of their humanist or atheist life-stance. The HV and Humanistische Omroep cooperated under the direction of Dorothée Forma to produce two documentaries on both groups: \"Among Nonbelievers\" (2015) and \"\" (2016).\n\nIn Nigeria, there is no federal law that explicitly makes apostasy a crime. The Federal Constitution protects freedom of religion and allows religious conversion. Section 10 of the constitution states, 'The Government of the Federation of a State shall not adopt any religion as State Religion.'.\n\nHowever, 12 Muslim-majority states in northern Nigeria have laws invoking Sharia, which have been used to persecute Muslim apostates, particularly Muslims who have converted to Christianity. Although the states of Nigeria have a degree of autonomy to adopt their own laws, the first paragraph of the Federal Constitution stipulates that any law inconsistent with the provisions of the constitution shall be void. The Sharia penal code does contradict the Constitution, yet the federal government has not made a move to restore this breach of the constitutional order, letting the northern Muslim-dominated states have their way and not protecting the constitutional rights of citizens violated by Sharia.\n\nGovernor Ahmad Sani Yerima of Zamfara State, the first Nigerian Muslim-majority state to introduce Sharia in 2000, stated that because capital punishment for apostasy was unconstitutional, citizens themselves should do the killing, effectively undermining the rule of law:\n\nIf you change your religion from Islam, the penalty is death. We know it. And we didn't put it in our penal code because it is against the constitutional provision. It is the law of Allah, which now is a culture for the entire society. So if a Muslim changes his faith or religion, it is the duty of the society or family to administer that part of the justice to him.\n\nSani further added that whoever opposed 'the divine rules and regulations (...) is not a Muslim', confirmed by Secretary-General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs Lateef Adegbite, who was quoted as saying:\n\nOnce you reject sharia, you reject Islam. So, any Muslim that protests the application of sharia is virtually declaring himself non-Muslim.\n\nIn December 2005, Nigerian pastor Zacheous Habu Bu Ngwenche was attacked for allegedly hiding a convert.\n\nOman does not have an apostasy law. However, under Law 32 of 1997 on Personal Status for Muslims, an apostate's marriage is considered annulled and inheritance rights denied when the individual commits apostasy. The Basic Law of Oman, since its enactment in 1995, declares Oman to be an Islamic state and Sharia as the final word and source of all legislation. Omani jurists state that this deference to Sharia, and alternatively the blasphemy law under Article 209 of Omani law, allows the state to pursue death penalty against Muslim apostates, if it wants to.\n\nThe State of Palestine does not have a constitution; however, the Basic Law provides for religious freedom. The Basic Law was approved in 2002 by the Palestinian Legislative Council (PLC) and signed by then-President Yasir Arafat. The Basic Law states that Islam is the official religion, but also calls for respect and sanctity for other \"heavenly\" religions (such as Judaism and Christianity) and that the principles of Shari'a (Islamic law) shall be the main source of legislation.\n\nThe Palestinian Authority (PA) requires Palestinians to declare their religious affiliation on identification papers. Either Islamic or Christian ecclesiastical courts handle legal matters relating to personal status. Inheritance, marriage, and divorce are handled by such courts, which exist for Muslim and Christians.\n\nCitizens living in the West Bank found to be guilty of 'defaming religion' under the old Jordanian law, run the risk of years of imprisonment, up to for life. This happened to 26-year-old blogger Waleed Al-Husseini in October 2010, who was arrested and charged with defaming religion after openly declaring himself an atheist and criticising religion online. He was detained for ten months. After being released, he eventually fled to France, as the PA continued to harass him, and citizens called for him to be lynched. He later found out he was sentenced to seven-and-a-half years in prison in absentia.\n\nAs of 2014, there is no law that criminalizes apostasy in Pakistan. A bill was proposed in 2007 to criminalize apostasy, but it failed to pass. \nIt has been noted that, in theory, the principle of \"a lacuna\" could apply where a gap in statute law could be filled with Islamic law. However, as of 2014, there were no known cases of anyone being prosecuted for apostasy in Pakistan. Apostates can be prosecuted under Pakistan's blasphemy law, if they desecrate the Quran or make derogatory remarks against the Islamic Prophet Muhammad. Further, Pakistan has blasphemy law that carries death penalty, but the law does not define blasphemy. Under Article 295-C of its penal code, any Pakistani Muslim who feels his or her religious feelings have been hurt, directly or indirectly, for any reason or any action of another Pakistani citizen can accuse blasphemy and open a criminal case against anyone. Inheritance and property rights for apostates was prohibited by Pakistan in 1963.\n\nIn 1991, Tahir Iqbal, whose had converted to Christianity from Islam, was arrested on charges of desecrating a copy of the Qur'an and making statements against Muhammad. While awaiting trial, he was denied bail on the presumption by a Sessions Court and the appeals Division of the Lahore High Court that conversion from Islam was a \"cognizable offense\". However, it has been noted by multiple sources that there conversion from Islam is not an offense under Pakistani law. In 1992, a local imam asked Iqbal to be sentenced to death for converting to Christianity. The Pakistani judge hearing the case rejected the idea, saying that Iqbal could only be sentenced if it could be proven he had committed blasphemy.\n\nIn 2016, Pakistan's Sindh province passed legislation to protect religious freedom by banning forced conversions of people, Sindh has a large Hindu minority compared to other Pakistani provinces.\n\nApostasy in Islam is a crime in Qatar. Its Law 11 of 2004 specific traditional Sharia prosecution and punishment for apostasy, considering it a hudud crime punishable by death penalty.\n\nProselytizing of Muslims to convert to another religion is also a crime in Qatar under Article 257 of its law, punishable with prison term. According to its law passed in 2004, if proselytizing is done in Qatar, for any religion other than Islam, the sentence is imprisonment of up to five years. Anyone who travels to and enters Qatar with written or recorded materials or items that support or promote conversion of Muslims to apostasy are to be imprisoned for up two years.\n\nCasual discussion or \"sharing one's faith\" with any Muslim resident in Qatar has been deemed a violation of Qatari law, leading to deportation or prison time. There is no law against proselytizing non-Muslims to join Islam.\n\nSaudi Arabia has no penal code, and defaults its law entirely to Sharia and its implementation to religious courts. The case law in Saudi Arabia, and consensus of its jurists is that Islamic law imposes the death penalty on apostates.\n\nApostasy law is actively enforced in Saudi Arabia. For example, Saudi authorities charged Hamza Kashgari, a Saudi writer, in 2012 with apostasy based on comments he made on Twitter. He fled to Malaysia, where he was arrested and then extradited on request by Saudi Arabia to face charges. Kashgari repented, upon which the courts ordered that he be placed in protective custody. Similarly, two Saudi Sunni Muslim citizens were arrested and charged with apostasy for adopting the Ahmadiyya sect of Islam. As of May 2014, the two accused of apostasy had served two years in prison awaiting trial.\n\nIn 2015, a man in Saudi Arabia was sentenced to death for apostasy.\n\nIn 2012, the US Department of State alleged that Saudi Arabia's school textbooks included chapters which justified the social exclusion and killing of apostates.\n\nApostasy is a crime in Somalia. Articles 3(1) and 4(1) of Somalia's constitution declare that religious law of Sharia is the nation's highest law. The prescribed punishment for apostasy is the death penalty.\n\nThere have been numerous reports of executions of people for apostasy, particularly Muslims who have converted to Christianity. However, the reported executions have been by extra-state Islamist groups and local mobs, rather than after the accused has been tried under a Somali court of law.\n\nArticle 126.2 of the Penal Code of Sudan (1991) reads,\nWhoever is guilty of apostasy is invited to repent over a period to be determined by the tribunal. If he persists in his apostasy and was not recently converted to Islam, he will be put to death.\n\nSome notable cases of apostasy in Sudan include: Mahmoud Mohammed Taha, a Sudanese religious thinker, leader, and trained engineer, who was executed for \"sedition and apostasy\" in 1985 at the age of 76 by the regime of Gaafar Nimeiry. Meriam Ibrahim, a 27-year-old Christian Sudanese woman was sentenced to death for apostasy in May 2014, but allowed to leave the country in July after an international outcry.\n\nSudanese ex-Muslim and human rights activist Nahla Mahmoud has estimated that during the years 2010, 2011 and 2012, there have been between 120 and 170 Sudanese citizens who have been convicted for apostasy, most of whom repented to avoid a death sentence.\n\nFollowing the 2010–11 Tunisian Revolution, a Constituent Assembly worked for 2.5 years to written a new Constitution, approved in January 2014, contained a provision in Article 6 granting freedom of conscience. It also stipulates that '[a]ccusations of apostasy and incitement to violence are prohibited'. With it, Tunisia became the first Arab-majority country to protect its citizens from prosecution for renouncing Islam. Critics have pointed out alleged flaws of this formulation, namely that it violates the freedom of expression.\n\nThe highest profile cases of apostasy in Tunisia were of the two atheist ex-Muslims Ghazi Beji and Jabeur Mejri, sentenced to 7.5 years in prison on 28 March 2012. They were prosecuted for expressing their views on Islam, the Quran and Muhammad on Facebook, blogs and in online books, which allegedly 'violated public order and morality'. Mejri wrote a treatise in English on Muhammad's supposedly violent and sexually immoral behaviour. When Mejri was arrested by police, he confessed under torture that his friend Beji had also authored an antireligious book, \"The Illusion of Islam\", in Arabic. Upon learning he, too, was sought by the police, Beji fled the country and reached Greece; he obtained political asylum in France on 12 June 2013. Mejri was pardoned by president Moncef Marzouki and left prison on 4 March 2014 after several human rights groups campaigned for his release under the slogan \"Free Jabeur\". When Mejri wanted to accept Sweden's invitation to move there, he was again imprisoned for several months, however, after being accused of embezzling money from his former job by his ex-colleagues (who started bullying him as soon as they found out he was an atheist), a rumour spread by his former friend Beji (who felt betrayed by Mejri because he had outed him as an atheist).\n\nAlthough there is no punishment for apostasy from Islam in Turkey, there are several formal and informal mechanisms in place that make it hard for citizens not to be Muslim. Non-Muslims, especially non-religious people, are discriminated against in a variety of ways. Article 216 of the penal code outlaws insulting religious belief, a de facto blasphemy law obstructing citizens from expressing irreligious views, or views critical of religions. A well-known example is that of pianist Fazıl Say in 2012, who was charged with insulting religion for publicly declaring his atheism. Irreligious Turks are also often discriminated against in the workplace, because people are assumed to be Muslim by birth, and terms such as 'atheist' or 'nonbeliever' are frequently used insults in the public sphere.\n\nIn 2014, the Turkish atheist association Ateizm Derneği was founded for nonreligious citizens, many of whom have left Islam. The association won the International League of non-religious and atheists's Sapio Award 2017 for being the first officially recognised organisation in the Middle East defending the rights of atheists.\n\nAn early April 2018 report of the Turkish Ministry of Education, titled \"The Youth is Sliding to Deism\", observed that an increasing number of pupils in İmam Hatip schools was abandoning Islam in favour of deism. The report's publication generated large-scale controversy amongst conservative Muslim groups in Turkish society. Progressive Islamic theologian Mustafa Ozturk noted the deist trend a year earlier, arguing that the \"very archaic, dogmatic notion of religion\" held by the majority of those claiming to represent Islam was causing \"the new generations [to get] indifferent, even distant, to the Islamic worldview.\" Despite lacking reliable statistical data, numerous anecdotes appear to point in this direction. Although some commentators claim the secularisation is merely a result of Western influence or even a \"conspiracy\", most commentators, even some pro-government ones, have come to conclude that \"the real reason for the loss of faith in Islam is not the West but Turkey itself: It is a reaction to all the corruption, arrogance, narrow-mindedness, bigotry, cruelty and crudeness displayed in the name of Islam.\" Especially when the AKP Islamists are in power to enforce Islam upon society, this is making citizens turn their back on it.\n\nApostasy is a crime in the United Arab Emirates. In 1978, UAE began the process of Islamising the nation's law, after its council of ministers voted to appoint a High Committee to identify all its laws that conflicted with Sharia. Among the many changes that followed, UAE incorporated hudud crimes of Sharia into its Penal Code - apostasy being one of them. Article 1 and Article 66 of UAE's Penal Code requires hudud crimes to be punished with the death penalty.\n\nUAE law considers it a crime and imposes penalties for using the Internet to preach against Islam or to proselytize Muslims inside the international borders of the nation. Its laws and officials do not recognize conversion from Islam to another religion. In contrast, conversion from another religion to Islam is recognized, and the government publishes through mass media an annual list of foreign residents who have converted to Islam.\n\nThe Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain (CEMB) is the British branch of the Central Council of Ex-Muslims, who represent former Muslims who fear for their lives because they have renounced Islam. It was launched in Westminster on 22 June 2007. The Council protests against Islamic states that still punish Muslim apostates with death under the Sharia law. The Council is led by Maryam Namazie, who was awarded \"Secularist of the Year\" in 2005 and has faced death threats. The British Humanist Association and National Secular Society sponsored the launch of the organisation and have supported its activities since. A July 2007 poll by the Policy Exchange think-tank revealed that 31% of British Muslims believed that leaving the Muslim religion should be punishable by death.\n\nCEMB assists about 350 apostates a year, the majority of whom have faced death threats from Islamists or family members. The number of ex-Muslims is unknown due to a lack of sociological studies on the issues and the reluctance of ex-Muslims to discuss their status openly. Writing for \"The Observer\" Andrew Anthony argued that ex-Muslims had failed to gain support from other progressive groups, due to caution about being labelled by other progressive movements as Islamophobic or racist.\n\nIn November 2015, the CEMB launched the social media campaign #ExMuslimBecause, encouraging ex-Muslims to come out as apostates, and explain why they left Islam. Within two weeks, the hashtag had been used over a 100,000 times. Proponents argued that it should be possible to freely question and criticise Islam, opponents claimed the campaign was amongst other things 'hateful', and said the extremist excrescences of Islam were unfairly equated with the religion as a whole.\n\nBesides the CEMB, a new initiative for ex-Muslims, Faith to Faithless, was launched by Imtiaz Shams and Aliyah Saleem in early 2015.\n\nAccording to Pew Research Center estimate in 2016, there were about 3.3 million Muslims living in the United States, comprising about 1% of the total U.S. population. A 2015 survey by the Pew Research Center found that 23% of Americans who were raised as Muslims no longer identify with Islam. However, many of them are not open about their deconversion, in fear of endangering their relationships with their relatives and friends.\n\nDavid B. Barrett, co-author of the \"World Christian Encyclopedia\", estimated around 2000 that in the United States annually 50,000 Christians converted to Islam while 20,000 Muslims adopted Christianity. A 2002 article in \"The Washington Times\" by Julia Duin described the precarious situation of U.S. Muslim converts to Christianity: \"Some have simply been shunned by their families. Others have been kidnapped by family members and friends, and put on a plane back home. All are reluctant to ask for protection from U.S. law enforcement, especially those converts with Arabic surnames who are leery of getting their names on a U.S. police report. However, there are no known instances of converts from Islam to Christianity who have been killed in the United States for their decision to leave their faith.\" Ibn Warraq, author of \"Why I Am Not a Muslim\" (1995) and \"\" (2003), stressed the importance of this fact as a reason for 'not exaggerating' the fate of former Muslims in America, noting however: \"They are threatened. They are attacked physically. I cite [in \"Leaving Islam\"] instances of young students who have converted and who were attacked but were rescued just in time.\"\n\nWell-known organisations who support ex-Muslims in the United States include Ex-Muslims of North America (EXMNA, co-founded by Muhammad Syed, Sarah Haider and others), Former Muslims United and Muslimish.\n\nApostasy is a crime in Yemen. Articles 12 and 259 of the Yemen Penal Code address apostasy, the former requires Sharia sentence be used for apostasy and the latter specifies death penalty for apostates of Islam. Yemeni law waives the punishment to an apostate if he or she recants, repents and returns to Islam while denouncing his or her new faith.\n\nIn 2012, Yemeni citizen Ali Qasim Al-Saeedi was arrested and charged with apostasy by Yemeni law enforcement agency after he posted his personal views questioning the teachings of Islam, on a Yemeni blogging site and his Facebook page.\n\nApostasy is also a crime in smaller Muslim-majority countries such as Maldives and Comoros. In January 2006, in Turkey, Kamil Kiroglu was beaten unconscious and threatened with death if he refused to reject his Christian religion and return to Islam.\n\nLaws prohibiting religious conversion run contrary to Article 18 of the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which states the following:\n\nEveryone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observance.\n\nAfghanistan, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Pakistan and Syria voted in favor of the Declaration. The governments of other Muslim-majority countries have responded by criticizing the Declaration as an attempt by the non-Muslim world to impose their values on Muslims, with a presumption of cultural superiority, and by issuing the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam—a joint declaration of the member states of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference made in 1990 in Cairo, Egypt. The Cairo Declaration differs from the Universal Declaration in affirming Sharia as the sole source of rights, and in limits of equality and behavior in religion, gender, sexuality, etc.\nIslamic scholars such as Muhammad Rashid Rida in Tafsir al-Minar, argue that the \"freedom to apostatize\", is different from freedom of religion on the grounds that apostasy from Islam infringes on the freedom of others and the respect due the religion of Islamic states.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35876873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35876873", "title": "Asceticon", "text": "Asceticon\n\nThe Asceticon (\"ascetic discourses\") by Abba Isaiah of Scetes is a diverse anthology of essays by an Egyptian Christian monk who left Scetes around 450 AD. Originally composed in Greek, the \"Asceticon\" consists of 30 essays (\"logos\") on subjects including: advice for novice monks; precepts for those who have renounced the world; sayings and stories by Abba Isaiah; various letters, sermons, and sayings. Logos 30 includes several sayings that were also included in the \"Apophthegmata Patrum\" (\"Sayings of the Desert Fathers\"), but in a different form, giving scholars some evidence on how those sayings evolved into their final form in the \"Apophthegmata Patrum\". Abba Isaiah was also influential in bringing Christianity to Palestine.\n\n"}
{"id": "36819191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36819191", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in France", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in France\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in France started after French citizens observed and studied the religion in its native Persia in the 19th century. Following the introduction of followers of the religion shortly before 1900, the community grew and was assisted by `Abdu'l-Bahá's trip to France in 1911 and 1912. After growth and tribulation, the community established its National Assembly in 1958. The community has been reviewed a number of times by researchers. According to the 2005 Association of Religion Data Archives data there are close to some 4,400 Bahá'ís in France and the French government is among those who have been alarmed at the treatment of Bahá'ís in modern Iran.\n\nA French agent working in Persia reported briefly on the Bábís, a predecessor religion to the Bahá'í Faith, in the 1840s after it originated in 1844.\n\nThough in no way espousing his beliefs, Bahá'ís know Arthur de Gobineau as the person who obtained the only complete manuscript of the early history of the Bábí religious movement of Persia, written by Haji Mírzá Jân of Kashan, who was put to death by the Persian authorities about 1852. The manuscript now is in the Bibliothèque Nationale at Paris. He is also known to students of the Bábí Faith for having written the first and most influential account of the movement, displaying a fairly accurate knowledge of its history in \"Religions et philosophies dans l'Asie centrale\". An addendum to that work is a bad translation of the Báb's Bayan al-'Arabi, the first Bábí text to be translated into a European language.\n\nBahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith in the 19th century, addressed a number of items to French officials or in circumstances related to France from circa the 1870s. There were two Tablets to Emperor Napoleon III incorporated into major works of the literature of the Bahá'í Faith: the Súriy-i-Mulúk and the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. In the first it said the sincerity of the Emperor's claims on behalf of the oppressed and the helpless were tested. In the second he prophesies that, failing that sincerity, his kingdom would be \"thrown into confusion\", the \"empire shall pass\" from him and the people experience great \"commotions\". Bahá'u'lláh also criticizes the French Ambassador in Constantinople for having conspired with the Persian Ambassador saying he has neglected the exhortations of Jesus Christ as recorded in the Gospels and advises him, and those like him, to be just and not to follow the promptings of the evil within their own selves. Another tablet – the Tablet of Fu'ad – was written soon after the death of Fu'ád Páshá in Nice. The Pasha was the foreign minister of the Sultan and a faithful accomplice of the Prime Minister in bringing about the exile of Bahá'ú'lláh to 'Akka then in Palestine.\n\nHowever, Bahá'u'lláh's tablets had little attention if any in France itself. Instead the French were still occupied much more with the Báb's dramatic life and the persecution his religion and life were subject to. French writer Henri Antoine Jules-Bois says that: \"among the littérateurs of my generation, in the Paris of 1890, the martyrdom of the Báb was still as fresh a topic as had been the first news of his death. We wrote poems about him. Sarah Bernhardt entreated Catulle Mendès for a play on the theme of this historic tragedy.\" The French writer A. de Saint-Quentin also mentioned the religion in a book published in 1891. For all the attention, little penetrated to understanding the religion itself.\n\nIn late 1894 May Bolles (later Maxwell) moved to Paris with her mother and brother, who was to attend the École des Beaux-Arts, May’s mother hoped the change from living in America would help May find a happy life, however she continued through periods of deep depression and insomnia and even considered entering a convent. In 1897 May lost both her grandmother and cousin whom she was very close to. At age 27, May became obsessed with mortality and became bedridden leading to many of her family members believing she was going to die. In November 1898 family friend Phoebe Hearst, with Lua Getsinger and others, stopped off at Paris. Hearst was shocked to see 28-year-old May bedridden with the chronic malady which had afflicted her. She invited May to sojourn to the East with her, believing the change of air to be conducive to her health. Getsinger also disclosed to May the purpose of the journey: a pilgrimage to visit the then head of the Bahá’í Faith: `Abdu'l-Bahá. They arrived in early December. Transformed by the trip in just a few days, May returned to Paris about late-December where she stayed for some time, at the request of `Abdu'l-Bahá, living as a confirmed Bahá'í and began teaching her new faith.\n\n1898 is considered as the first presence of the religion in France and the beginnings of the first Bahá'í community in Europe. That is also the year the French \"Encyclopaedia of Larousse\" contained an entry on the Bábí religion.\n\nAbout 1900 Frenchman and American Laura Clifford Barney learned of the religion in Paris from Bolles. Dreyfus would be the first French Bahá'í and the couple would marry a decade later.\n\nBarney went to Egypt in the spring of 1901 to see `Abdu'l-Bahá and returned with Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl Gulpáygání, one of the most erudite scholars of the religion, to Paris, where Anton Haddad translated for him. At the time, Paris had the most important Bahá'í community in Europe and many of those who were becoming Bahá'ís there would in later years would be famous in the religion. During Gulpaygani's time there, more than thirty became Bahá'ís. From Paris Gulpaygani went to America in the autumn of 1901.\n\nAt almost the same time Englishman Thomas Breakwell was also taught the religion by Bolles in the summer of 1901 in Paris. At the request of `Abdu'l-Bahá, Breakwell also took up permanent residence in Paris, where he worked enthusiastically to teach the religion and help develop the first Paris Bahá’í community. Breakwell regularly corresponded with `Abdu’l-Bahá‘s secretary and translator Yúnis Khán and was the first western Bahá’í to give the Huqúqu’lláh, a voluntary payment based on any wealth in excess of what is necessary to live comfortably. Breakwell died of tuberculosis on 13 June 1902, barely a year after joining the religion though his father followed him into the religion.\n\nAfter learning of the Bahá'í Faith in Washington DC near 1898 Juliet Thompson traveled to Paris at the invitation of Barney's mother. Later in 1901 in Paris she met Breakwell who gave her Gobineau's description in French of the Execution of the Báb which confirmed her faith. Turn of the century Paris is also where Charles Mason Remey first met Thompson when she was taking classes on the religion from Gulpáygání.\n\nBolles also introduced the religion to French-American Edith MacKaye who then moved from Paris to Sion, Switzerland in 1903 as the first Bahá'í to live in that country. Bolles would later leave France, being married in London and moved to Canada.\n\nIn 1903 Dreyfus went with Lua Getsinger and Edith Sanderson to see `Abdu'l-Bahá. Over following decades Dreyfus would translate many Bahá'í writings and serve in delegations to the Shah of Persia protesting the treatment of Bahá'ís.\n\nModern Iranian government allegations against Bahá'ís claim the early 20th century French Ambassador confessed that the Bahá'í Faith was a tool of colonial expansion. Bahá'í sources indicate that the French Ambassador in Tehran, greatly impressed by the teachings of the religion and by their effect upon the people who embraced them, suggested that Bahá'ís might go to Tunisia and teach their religion there. But it was Dreyfus that sought out permission from the French authorities for the religion to be promulgated in Tunisia. Indeed, the Bahá‘í Faith has never been associated with a fortification of colonial occupation or Euro-American assimilation – a stance supported by anthropologist Alice Beck Kehoe, a well known researcher of Native Americans, who observed that the Bahá‘í Faith is considered by its members to be a universal faith, not tied to any one particular culture, religious background, language, or even its country of origin. This has been examined in issues related to Native Americans, Latin Americans and sub-Saharan Africans affirming this approach in Bahá'í activities.\n\nAmong the translations done by Dreyfus of Bahá'u'lláh's works are the Kitab-i-Iqan, The Hidden Words and Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Over the same period A.L.M. Nicholas was inspired to study the Bábí Faith because of Gobineau though Nicholas was critical of his work and even reached to the point of calling himself a Bábí. Nicholas translated several Bábí volumes – Persian Bayán, Arabic Bayán, and the Dalá'il-i-Sab'ih and ultimately he believed Subh-i-Azal was the rightful successor of the Bábí Faith, being deeply hurt at what he felt the Bahá'ís showed towards the Báb making him but the insignificant forerunner, the John the Baptist, of Bahá'u'lláh. On learning with clarity of the independent status as a greater prophet acknowledged for the Báb late in his life he wrote:\n\nI do not know how to thank you nor how to express the joy that floods my heart. So it is necessary not only to admit but to love and admire the Báb. Poor great Prophet, born in the heart of Persia, without any means of instruction, and who, alone in the world, encircled by enemies, succeeds by the force of his genius in creating a universal and wise religion. That Bahá'u'lláh succeeded Him eventually may be, but I want people to admire the sublimity of the Báb, who has, moreover, paid with his life, with his blood, for the reforms he preached. Cite me another similar example. At last, I can die in peace. Glory be to Shoghi Effendi who has calmed my torment and my anxieties, glory be to him who recognizes the worth of Siyyid 'Alí-Muhammad, the Báb. I am so happy that I kiss your hands that have written my address on the envelope which carried Shoghi's message. Thank you, Mademoiselle; thank you from the depths of my heart.\n\nBarney and Dreyfus worked together on the editing and translation of Some Answered Questions. In 1905–06 Barney visited Persia, the Caucasus, and Russia with Dreyfus. She also wrote a play \"God's Heroes\"in 1910 depicting the story of Tahirih named as a Letter of the Living who has been compared with Joan of Arc in the changes which they came to release by virtue of their examples. Barney and Dreyfyus married in April 1911, when they both adopted the surname Dreyfus-Barney.\n\nExtending the previous work in the Encyclopaedia of Larousse the Bahá'í Faith was entered into the supplement published in 1906.\n\nCirca 1900–1908 Marion Jack, who would go on to be well known for her work in promulgating the religion, learned of the religion in Paris from Mason Remey when she was a student studying painting and architecture.\n\nA decade after they met at Bolles' home, between the journeys of `Abdu'l-Bahá to France, Laura and Hippolyte married, mutually hyphenated their last names, and continued to serve the religion.\n\nThe French Bahá'ís were noted as contributing to the North American Bahá'í House of Worship even after facing the January 1910 Great Flood of Paris.\n\nVarious memoirs cover the travels of `Abdu'l-Bahá including in France.\n\nThe first European trip after leaving Acre Palestine spanned from August to December 1911, at which time he returned to Egypt for the winter. The purpose of these trips was to support the Bahá'í communities in the West and to further spread his father's teachings.\n\nWhen `Abdu'l-Bahá arrived in Marseille, he was greeted by Dreyfus. Dreyfus accompanied `Abdu'l-Bahá to Thonon-les-Bains on Lake Geneva that straddles France and Switzerland.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá stayed in France for a few days before going to Vevey in Switzerland. While in Thonon-les-Bains, `Abdu'l-Bahá met Mass'oud Mirza Zell-e Soltan, who had asked to meet `Abdu'l-Bahá. Soltan, who had ordered the execution of King and Beloved of martyrs, was the eldest grandson of Naser al-Din Shah Qajar who had ordered the Execution of the Báb himself. Juliet Thompson, an American Bahá'í who had also come to visit `Abdu'l-Bahá while still in this early phase of his journeys, recorded comments of Dreyfus who heard Soltan's stammering apology for past wrongs. `Abdu'l-Bahá embraced him and invited his sons to lunch. Thus Bahram Mírzá Sardar Mass'oud and Akbar Mass’oud, another grandson of Naser al-Din Shah Qajar, met with the Bahá'ís, and apparently Akbar Mass’oud was greatly affected by meeting `Abdu'l-Bahá. From then he went to Great Britain.\n\nOn return from Great Britain `Abdu'l-Bahá stayed in Paris for nine weeks, during which time he stayed at a residence at 4 Avenue de Camoens, and during his time there he was helped by Dreyfus, Barney, and Lady Blomfield who had come from London. `Abdu'l-Bahá's first talk in Paris was on 16 October, and later that same day guests gathered in a poor quarter outside Paris at a home for orphans by Mr and Mrs. Ponsonaille which was much praised by `Abdu'l-Bahá.\n\nFrom almost every day from 16 Oct to 26 Nov he gave talks. On a few of the days, he gave more than one talk. The book \"Paris Talks\", part I, records transcripts of `Abdu'l-Bahá's talks while he was in Paris for the first time. The substance of the volume is from notes of Lady Blomfield, her two daughters and a friend. While most of his talks were held at his residence, he also gave talks at the Theosophical Society headquarters, at L'Alliance Spiritaliste, and on 26 Nov he spoke at Charles Wagner's church \"Foyer de l-Ame\". He also met with various people including Muhammad ibn `Abdu'l-Vahhad-i Qazvini and Seyyed Hasan Taqizadeh. It was during one of the meetings with Taqizadeh that `Abdu'l-Bahá personally first spoke on a telephone. From France he traveled through continental Europe until he returned to France and on 2 December 1911 he left France for Egypt for the winter.\n\nHe later remarked that he had visited the Senate chamber of the Parliament but \"did not like their system at all, … there was a turmoil, … two of them got up and had a fight. …This is a fiasco! …Call it a play and not the Parliament.\"\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá arrived in Paris as part of the second journey on 22 January 1913; the visit would last for a couple months. During his stay in the city, he continued his public talks, as well as meeting with Bahá'ís, including locals, those from Germany, and those who had come from the East specifically to meet with him. During this stay in Paris, `Abdu'l-Bahá's stayed at an apartment at 30 Rue St Didier which was rented for him by (the now married) Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney.\n\nSome of the notables that `Abdu'l-Bahá met while in Paris include the Persian minister in Paris, several prominent Ottomans from the previous regime, professor 'Inayatu'llah Khan, and British Orientalist E.G. Browne. He also gave a talk on the evening of the 12th to the Esperantists, and on the next evening gave a talk to the Theosophists at the Hotel Moderne. He had met with a group of professors and theological students at Pasteur Henri Monneir's Theological Seminary; Pasteur Monnier was a distinguished Protestant theologian, vice-president of the Protestant Federation of France and professor of Protestant theology in Paris.\n\nLater `Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916–1917 suggesting Bahá'ís take the religion to many lands, including these. These letters were compiled in the book titled \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\", but its publication was delayed owing to World War I and the Spanish flu pandemic. They were translated and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on 12 December 1919. One tablet says in part:\n\nIn brief, this world-consuming war has set such a conflagration to the hearts that no word can describe it. In all the countries of the world, the longing for universal peace is taking possession of the consciousness of men. There is not a soul who does not yearn for concord and peace. A most wonderful state of receptivity is being realized.… Therefore, O ye believers of God! Show ye an effort and after this war spread ye the synopsis of the divine teachings in the British Isles, France, Germany, Austria-Hungary, Russia, Italy, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Portugal, Rumania, Serbia, Montenegro, Bulgaria, Greece, Andorra, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, San Marino, Balearic Isles, Corsica, Sardinia, Sicily, Crete, Malta, Iceland, Faroe Islands, Shetland Islands, Hebrides and Orkney Islands.\n\nAgnes Alexander, who had been through Paris October 1900 but encountered the religion elsewhere, was back near France as World War I broke. She was in Europe seeking passage to Japan because of directions from `Abdu'l-Bahá. She found opportunity as she passed through France riding in a third class coach with two wounded soldiers and arriving safely at Marseilles substituting on a ticket of a German woman. Curtis Kelsey and Richard St. Barbe Baker were or would become Bahá'ís who served in France during the First World War. Edna M. True, a Bahá'í since 1903 and daughter of (later named Hand of the Cause) Corinne True, was a member of the Smith College Relief Unit serving in France ministering to the needs of U.S. servicemen.\n\nIn 1928 the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Paris was elected. That winter Hippolyte Drefus-Barney died. The funeral services included Mountfort Mills as a representative of the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and conveyed that local assemblies in the US were holding memorial services for him. In 1929–30 the first annual conference of \"Bahá'í Students in Paris\" was held. In 1931 a Frenchman Gaston Hesse is noted as a staff editor of volume IV of the annual Bahá'í World periodical and a number of Persian students traveled to France in part to review the places `Abdu'l-Bahá visited during breaks in their studies until developments in 1938–39 brought that project to an end. In 1936 May Maxwell (formerly Bolles) held meetings on the religion in Lyon along with Persian Mírzá Ezzatollah Zabih. David Hoffman, later a member of the Universal House of Justice was able to visit Bahá'ís in France in 1945. He conveyed oral reports that the Gestapo had questioned the Bahá'ís of Paris. He reported the Bahá'ís were able to retain some literature because they could report their office had been hit by a bomb destroying materials there but left unsaid that materials stored elsewhere were untouched. Some members of the community were still present, some had died, and some had disappeared: Miss Sanderson, Mrs. Scott, Madame Hess and Mr. Kennedy were among the living, Mrs. Kennedy died, Mlle. Alcan was killed in an air-raid, Mrs. Stannard died of cancer, and Mme Monteglore was known to have been taken to a concentration camp. Some meetings were still able to be held during the occupation. French Bahá'ís also assisted in the mechanics of publishing a number of translations of Bahá'í volumes by Lidia Zamenhof in Poland, Anne Lynch in Switzerland, and others in the 1930s and 40s.\n\nThe French Bahá'í community was one of the few to remain organized in Europe coming out of WWII. The European Teaching Committee did not cover France as part of its responsibilities for reestablishing the religion in the countries of Europe. Indeed, events noting its relative health include a new Bahá'í convert, Mme. E. Schmitt of Nancy, France, in February 1946 the US national assembly establishing a bureau for international news on the religion in Paris, and Duncan McAlear shared news of conditions in France at the US national convention from which a decision was reached to set up a relief committee, in June. In particular the Bahá'ís of the southern states of America and eastern Canada coordinated relief packages for southern France (noting Marselles, Lyon, Hyeres and Toulouse) while the eastern states and again eastern Canada extended aid to the rest of France, Germany and Great Britain. Fifteen contacts in Paris, three in Hyeres, two in Lyon, and one each in Marseille and Toulouse, were noted for relief shipping. Marion Little pioneered to France from the US in 1947 and aided the formation of a publishing trust. Six French Bahá'ís are noted as still being prisoners of war in Germany where the National Spiritual Assembly of Germany petitioned for their release along with other nationals of other countries. The French community was summarized as elderly and relatively few in number to compare with efforts of Bahá'ís in other countries then underway though it is also the oldest and continually functioning community on the continent of Europe with new converts in Lyon. Their French language materials were also being circulated around the world. The religion was also noted as a presence in the French colonial empire from the 1950s. See for example Bahá'í Faith in Laos, Bahá'í Faith in New Caledonia and Bahá'í Faith in Senegal. However the Bahá'ís in France remained relatively small and did not penetrate into French society though Bahá'ís like Dorothy Beecher Baker traveled to Paris and Lyon and Lucienne Migette was noted in particular in Lyon as being very active in promulgating the religion.\n\nIndeed, Baker's trip signalized an engagement of French Bahá'ís and others in progress of the religion following the troubled limits of war. French Bahá'ís were in attendance at the first European Teaching Conference on 22–26 May 1948 held in Geneva which including public talks in French. The second such conference, held 5–7 August 1948 in Brussels, had Migette of Lyon as one of the speakers. In 1951 the Bahá'ís of Paris opened a Bahá'í center open 3 days of week to visitors. In 1952 fourteen Bahá'ís from across Europe attended the regional conference of NGOs for the Department of Public Information of the United Nations Organizations which was held in Paris – the largest group at the conference were the Bahá'ís and Bahá'í Ugo Giachery was elected chairman of one of its committees. In May 1953 the first French Bahá'í conference on the promulgation of the religion was held in Lyon at which Ugo Giachery attended as well as Persians and others. As part of the Ten Year Crusade Sara Kenney of France became a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh for pioneering to Medeira. In a few years she would return and serve on the National Spiritual Assembly of France. In May 1955 the first known wave of coordinated pioneers who moved to live in new places were noted for France – eight adults went to: Orleans, Bordeaux, and Périgueux. That summer Lyon hosted the first all-France Bahá'í summer school 12–20 August attracting 63 Bahá'ís from 14 locations in France among others including Bahá'ís from its earliest days in France as well as the new pioneers. This was also the event at which the future election of the French national assembly was announced – to be in 1958. The first youth conference was held in Chateauroux in February 1956. The first local assembly of Nice was elected later in 1956. The second France Bahá'í Summer School, 24 August – 2 September, held at Menton-Garavan, opened with a one-day Teaching Conference which was attended by 63 adult believers, 5 youth and 15 children, representing 14 French localities and 7 countries. In the spring of 1957 the first assembly of Orleans was elected. Sanary-sur-Mer was the place of the next Bahá'í summer school at which 39 adults and others from many places in France as well as Kenya, Belgian Congo and Madagascar attended.\n\nIn 1957–58 the French community was part of the regional national assembly with the Benelux Bahá'í communities. At the convention to elect the national assembly of France in 1958 was Edna True representing the US national assembly. Hand of the Cause Herman Grossmann oversaw the convention of the delegates coming from twenty locations in France with 77 of the then 152 Bahá'ís of France attending with William Sears whose travel plans landed him in France at that time. The members of the first national assembly elected were: Sara Kenny, Jacques Soghomonian, Francois Petit, Joel Marangella, Chahab 'Ala'i, Sally Sanor, Lucienne Migette, Farhang Javid, and Florence Bagley. The national assembly was incorporated according to civil law in December 1958. The second national convention had 17 delegates and the annual report detailed the community as seven assemblies, ten groups, and twenty isolated believers, with a membership of seventy-six French believers, thirty-eight Persians, twenty-eight Americans and eleven of other nationalities, for a total of 153 Bahá'ís including nine who were new Bahá'ís enrolled during the year. The 1959 summer school attracted 95 attendees including 16 non-Bahá'ís to Beaulieu-sur-Mer with Dr. Hermann Grossmann, as well as Jessie Revell representing the International Bahá'í Council, a predecessor to the Universal House of Justice.\n\nIn 1960, after the death of Shoghi Effendi, Mason Remey instigated a dispute among Bahá'ís over administration and was declared a Covenant-breaker. Remey succeeded in gathering a few supporters including a majority of the 1960 national assembly of France elected in April timed with Remey's announcement. The assembly was dissolved through reports of Hand of the Cause Abu'l-Qásim Faizi by early May through authority of the Custodians, nine Hands of the Cause assigned specifically to work at the Bahá'í World Centre elected by secret ballot, with all living Hands of the Cause voting.\n\nAn election was held to elect a new national assembly at the end of May. Its members were: Lucienne Migette, Dr. Barafroukhteh, A. Tammene, H. Samimy, Lucien McComb, A. H. Nairni, Y. Yasdanian, F. Petit, and Sara Kenny. The majority of Bahá'ís stood by the Hands of the Cause during this issue. Over the years following 1966 the followers of Remey were not organized; several of the individuals involved began forming their own groups based on different understandings of succession.\n\nThe 1960 summer Bahá'í school was attended by Hands of the Cause Dr. Adelbert Mühlschlegel and Dr. Ugo Giachery with 83 attendees. In October 1961 Bahá'í artist Mark Tobey was the first American to have a one-man show at the Louvre and the first in some years to win the Venice Biennale. Several of the news articles of Mark Tobey's achievement mentioned his faith as well as the 190-page catalogue of the Louvre presentation that had the most mention of the religion including Tobey's own words. From Paris the show went on to London and Brussels. In December 1961 the 50th anniversary of Abdu'l-Bahá's first trip to France was commemorated at Hôtel Lutetia with an updated translation of Paris Talks. The national assembly established the French Language Publishing Trust in 1962.\n\nIn 1963 the members of national assemblies around the world acted as delegates to the international convention to elect the Universal House of Justice for the first time. The members of the French national assembly were: Chahab Alai, Florence Bagley, Dr. A.M. Barafroukhteh, Sara Kenny, Lucien McComb, Lucienne Migette, Yadullah Rafaat, Henriette Samimy, and Omer Charles Tamenne.\n\nDemographically the religions expanded as follows:\n\nIn 1952: 3 assemblies, 3 groups, and 6 isolated Bahá'ís.\n\nIn 1959: 7 assemblies, 10 groups, and 20 isolated Bahá'ís.\n\nIn 1963: 7 assemblies, 10 groups, and 18 isolated Bahá'ís.\n\nIn 1979: 31 assemblies, 61 groups, and 98 isolated Bahá'ís.\n\nThe 1964 Bahá'í summer school was held in Perigueux with Hand of the Cause John Ferraby in attendance. In 1976 an international conference on the promulgation of the religion was held in Paris. Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum, in her first visit to France, and representing the Universal House of Justice, attended. Some 6000 Baha'is from 55 countries attended. Other Hands of the Cause also attended – Shu'á'u'lláh `Alá'í, Collis Featherstone, Dhikru'llah Khadem, Rahmatu'lláh Muhájir, John Robarts, and `Alí-Muhammad Varqá. Other significant attendees include Amoz Gibson, then member of the Universal House, Adib Taherzadeh, then a Continental Counselor and Firuz Kazemzadeh, then member of the National Assembly of the United States. Later that year French Baha'is were noted promulgating the religion in Republic of the Congo. A representative of the French national assembly attended the first election of the National Assembly of the French Antilles.\n\nSince the inception of the Bahá'í Faith, its founder Bahá'u'lláh exhorted believers to be involvemed in socio-economic development, leading individuals to become active in various projects. In France this developed from just participating in social public events but it expanded into social developments and cares which returned government appreciation and support.\n\nIn 1966 the Bahá'ís participated in the International Fair in Nice handing out thousands of pieces of literature. A similar exhibit took place in Marseille in later 1966. A smaller one took place in late 1966 in Luchon. The exhibit opportunity in Nice repeated in 1967 and was paralleled in Grenoble. In 1968 the event in Nice repeated and this time an additional venue in Montpelier had a Bahá'í display present while a smaller event took place in Marseille and Saint-Cloud. In 1971–72 Bahá'í youth organized a proclamation comparing and the music group Seals and Crofts after their Bahá'í pilgrimage along with related publicity. The same year the national assembly formally met with the Mayor of Monaco officially. In 1973 local efforts to promulgate the religion in the area of Clermont-Ferrand developed into television coverage between there and Switzerland on local television and it was reported most of the new converts were youth. In early 1976 the national assembly sent all local assemblies a package of information suitable for public use about Bahá'í Holy Days, and Bahá'í support for observances like United Nations Day which was in turn offered to local media. Meanwhile, an architecture student of I'Ecole Superieure d'Architecture de Bordeaux was able to formulate a study program on \"The Baha'i Faith and Architecture\" which was then in turn presented to students and faculty of the school. Perhaps the first national television coverage of the religion took place during the 1976 international conference held in Paris. Kurt Waldheim, then secretary-general of the United Nations, sent a message in recognition of the contributions of the Baha'is to United Nations initiatives to the conference. In 1980 the European Parliament passed a resolution concerning the Persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran following the Iranian Revolution which was echoed by then President François Mitterrand. The Spiritual Assembly of Bron held a successful concert fundraiser for the United Nations International Year of the Disabled in 1981. In 1983 years of contact with the Esperantists by one of the members of the Baha'i community of Nantes, France, resulted in sharing with the 25-member Assembly of the Esperanto Association copies of the \"white paper\" on the plight of Baha'is in Iran. In later in October a French language television program featured an artist/cryptographer's calligraphy of nine letters forming the word \"Behaisme\". The moderator looked up the word in a dictionary and read to an audience estimated at 19 million a brief definition of the religion. The program was rebroadcast in other French-speaking countries. In 1984 Baha'is from Marseilles to Nice in southern France worked to make the first Baha'i-sponsored float on the Cote d'Azur as part of municipal parades in Cavalaire and Sainte-Maxime. Also in 1984 a 15-minute segment by the Baha'is of France was televised 29 September including parts of previously produced Baha'i films from several sources as one of five segments that made up an over-all 75-minute program entitled \"Liberte 3\". In April 1985 a new national center was opened at a ceremony with attendees from government and NGOs – the President of the Senate, two representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and \"Citoyens du Monde\", the International Federation of the Rights of Man, and Amnesty International. In 1984 an Association of Baha'i Health Care Professionals was organized by a number of Baha'i doctors in France with bylaws approved by the national assembly. In 1986 The Promise of World Peace document was shared with political leaders in France including then Prime Minister Laurent Fabius, the president and vice-president of France's Parliament. In spring 1986 Baha'is in Moontpelier and Marseilles held public peace events with panelists, children, performers, NGO representatives and others for the International Year of Peace.\n\nIn 1987 Hand of the Cause Rúhíyyih Khanum commemorated her mother's time in France with a trip visiting the Baha'is in 17 places during a 33-day stay arriving on 11 November. Events included a two-day national conference on spreading the religion was held in Paris; seven regional gatherings throughout the country in Nice, Marseille, Annecy, Bordeaux, Nantes, Rennes and Strasbourg, and a national youth conference of more than 450 youth in Lyon. During the visit she met with the director of the \"Affairs of Cultes\" and former president of the European Parliament, Simone Veil, former prime minister, then Speaker of its House of Representatives, Jacques Chaban-Delmas, as well as local officials. During meetings with Baha'is and visitors she often spoke of her recent trips to Africa.\n\nExtending the background of academic interest in the religion since 1900 two volumes of the French language Catholic encyclopedia \"Fils d'Abraham\" were published in 1987 mentioning the religion:\n\nIn 1988 Baha'is held to large informational meetings on topics of internationalism and the environment.\n\nAndré Brugiroux, well known for traveling the countries of the world, encountered the religion in 1969 in Alaska and joined it. He made a documentary film about his travels and visiting Bahá'ís, versions of which have been shown since 1977 and wrote a few books published including 1984 and 1990 and has given many talks about the religion and his travels in and outside France.\n\nThe Gardeners of God – Two French journalists, Colette Gouvion and Philippe Jouvion attempted an objective and unbiased study of the Bahá'í Faith through a series interviews which was published in 1993 as \"Les Jardiniers de Dieu\" which was translated into English.\n\nThe 75th anniversary of `Abdu'l-Bahá's visit to Marseilles was commemorated at the \"Palais du Faro\" in 1989. The centenary of the first trip in 1911 was noted at the annual Bahá'í residential school, held in Evian from 27 August to 3 September, where participants explored what it means to be \"walking in the path of 'Abdu'l-Baha\" as they discussed the current activities of their communities. Revised and extended work reviewing `Abdu'l-Bahá's talks and those he met, were published as well in time with this centenary:\n\nContinuing to voice its concern in 1993 the French government took up issues related to the treatment of Baha'is in modern Iran. Subsequently, it voted in favor of a UN resolution in 1996 which expressed concern over a wide range of human rights violations in Iran in a resolution adopted by roll-call vote after last-minute negotiations failed to achieve consensus. And the government took further steps a number of times. In 2010 they supported the international community observing the treatment of arrested Baha'i leadership. SeePersecution of Bahá'ís.\n\nIn 1998 French Bahá'ís attempted to address issues with Mohammad Khatami.\n\n\"Frequency 19\" is a French language Bahá'í radio and video station on the internet.\n\nAccording to 2005 Association of Religion Data Archives data there are about 4,440.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55363504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55363504", "title": "Bible woman", "text": "Bible woman\n\nIn missions history, a Bible woman was a local woman who supported foreign female missionaries in their Christian evangelistic and social work.\n\nThe title \"Bible woman\" was first used in London in connection with a female evangelist, Ellen Henrietta Ranyard, who put effort to reach sick and poor women in the poorest area of London in the mid-nineteenth century. Ranyard's heart was heavily burdened with the poor condition of women in St. Giles district that she decided to start an evangelistic work among them. Ranyard found a Christian woman who had a similar life as such and hired the woman to go with her to the poorest district in London to evangelize and help the sick women there. The woman who had the similar life as her recipients would freely visit the poor women and read the Bible to their hearings. She also distributed the Bible and tracts to the area, this is why she was called Bible woman. From this little seed, sprang Ranyard's mission. In 1879, there were about 170 Bible women employed in the mission. After Ellen Ranyard's death in 1879, her work was continued as the London Bible and Domestic Female Mission. The idea of \"Bible women\" did not stay in her home of origin, in London, but spread throughout England, Scotland, and it travelled to Asia, Africa, and rest of the non-western world with women missionaries.\n\nAt the beginning of the nineteenth century, the creation of many interdenominational mission organizations was influenced by the Evangelical revivals, anti-slavery movements, and free trade theories, especially in Britain. The urge to preach the gospel to individuals shifted to nations and was motivated not only by religious zeal but was also inspired by Enlightenment ideology (which saw liberation and salvation of the world as an equal) to improve one's self to contribute the global progress. In this context, Protestant missionary women from the western world became increasingly interested in mission and trained themselves as educators, doctors, nurses, and other professionals to join in the mission work. They played a central role in mission fields as doctors, nurses, and teachers; they ran schools, hospitals and orphanages for children, etc. By the beginning of the twentieth century, most of the missionaries operating in the mission field were women.\n\nIn the mission field, \"Bible women\" or \"Bible readers\" were local indigenous women. The majority of Bible women held lower social status in their respective countries. They were either supported by female missionaries or by local churches but were usually the lowest paid or even sometimes they were unpaid. These local Christian women helped the British missionaries, especially female missionaries to perform their daily tasks and to accomplish their mission goal. Ruth Tucker argues that \"without Bible Women, female missionaries would have been at a loss.\"\n\nAccompanying western missionaries on their missions were a significant part of Bible women ministry, but on many occasions, they served alone or in teams without any direct assistance from the missionaries. Their ministry was wide in its range: they openly shared their faith with their fellow women, read the Bible in communities, taught children in village schools, called on the sick or troubled, worked among girls, and visited women in their homes. Bible women served as evangelists not only in their homelands but also in foreign settings. In the beginning of the 20th century, there were a number of Korean Bible women in Manchuria, Japan, and Hawaii sharing Bible stories with women and children. Furthermore, Bible women itinerated in villages to distribute and sell Bibles, tracts, and religious literature.\n\nIn 1913, thirty-six Bible women were employed by the British and Foreign Bible Society for the purpose of helping distribute scripture, and this practice continued with other Bible societies. Even though there were few who wished to buy the Bible, Bible women were successful in winning women for the Gospel. The Bible women were more effective in their evangelistic task than that of missionary women because they had open access to local women, girls, and children. In addition, they did not have a language barrier as most of the missionaries did have. Although Bible women focused on ministering to other women, occasionally, there were opportunities to minister to men as well.\n\nInitially, Bible women were trained by women missionaries on an individual basis. They were taught the Bible, but on occasion, they were taught nursing, writing, homemaking, and health. However, in later years, the number of Bible women increased and female training schools were opened: in China, alone, forty girls' schools were running in 1900. Bible women were trained as Bible teachers, nurses, and healthcare providers. Bible women who had a solid foundation in biblical studies were trained to be Bible teachers. \nIn Sudan, Bible women used a book entitled \"One Hundred Lessons from the Bible\" that took the student through the Bible in outlined studies that involved answering questions and memorizing verses. Following the one hundred lessons, there was a \"Way of Salvation\" series that was geared to bring the student to a personal commitment to Christ.\n\nBible women were actively involved in medical ministry too. They were taught basic medical skills by their female medical missionaries and then they worked as nurses and healthcare providers; they cared patients and shared the Gospel with them.\n\nAlthough Bible women played a major role in evangelizing their fellow women in their countries, they are largely left behind in contemporary study of Christian mission. There are not many records of Bible women today, neither of their successes nor their failures. It is because women were disregarded in their own cultures or may be they were ignored by their western male and female missionaries. Although they were the least known evangelists, Bible women played a major role in furthering the Kingdom of God in their homelands and beyond.\n\n"}
{"id": "478005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=478005", "title": "Borscht Belt", "text": "Borscht Belt\n\nBorscht Belt, or Jewish Alps, is a nickname for the (now mostly defunct) summer resorts of the Catskill Mountains in parts of Sullivan, Orange, and Ulster counties in New York. Borscht, a soup associated with immigrants from eastern Europe, was a colloquialism for \"Jewish\". These resorts were a popular vacation spot for New York City Jews between the 1920s and the 1970s.\nMost Borscht Belt resorts hosted traveling Jewish comedians and musicians, and many who later became famous began their careers there.\n\nThe tradition of Borscht Belt entertainment started in the early twentieth century with the indoor and outdoor theaters constructed on a 40-acre (16-hectare) tract in Hunter, New York, by Yiddish theater star Boris Thomashefsky.\n\nThe 1987 films \"Dirty Dancing\" and \"Sweet Lorraine\" reflect on the bygone era.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, the growth of air travel made the Catskills less attractive, so many of the resorts eventually closed, although Jewish culture has remained present. A large percentage of the region comprises summer homes and bungalow colonies (including many of the historic colonies) for Orthodox Jewish families, primarily from the New York metropolitan area, as well as year-round dwellers.\n\nResorts still are operating in the region, including Villa Roma, an Italian American resort, Soyuzivka and Xenia, Ukrainian cultural resorts, and the Skazka and Hotel Pine, Russian cultural resorts.\nAdditionally, motorsports enthusiasts are drawn to the area visiting the Monticello Motor Club.\n\nBorscht Belt hotels, bungalow colonies, summer camps, and קאָך-אַליינס \"kokh-aleyns\" (a Yiddish name for self-catered boarding houses, literally, \"cook-alones\") were frequented by families of middle and working class Jewish New Yorkers, mostly Ashkenazi Jewish immigrants.\nAntisemitism, particularly in the 1940s, '50s, and '60s, meant that they were often denied accommodation elsewhere.\n\nSome of the Catskill hotels were converted from farms that immigrant Jews had started in the early 1900s. As the area grew, it began to cater specifically to Jews, providing kosher food, synagogues, and other features of Jewish communities, including entertainment. The area became known as \"The Jewish Alps\", and the Sullivan County portion as \"Solomon County\".\n\nFrom the 1920s through the 1970s, nearly all notable Jewish entertainers would hone their skills at resorts in the Sullivan County area. Fallsburg became the catalyst for American stand-up comedy. Comedy legends, including Woody Allen, Rodney Dangerfield, Jerry Seinfeld, and Henny Youngman, performed there, as did Sid Caesar, Billy Crystal, Buddy Hackett, Gabe Kaplan, Andy Kaufman, and Joan Rivers. Jerry Lewis worked as a busboy while his parents did a vaudeville act. He would entertain customers while cleaning tables, giving him a chance to hone his skills while upping his tips. Famed prize fighters like Rocky Marciano and Sonny Liston, and Muhammad Ali, Leon Spinks and Floyd Patterson trained there. Millions of tourists, especially New Yorkers, came to swim in the lakes and oversized hotel pools, to ski or ice-skate or take lessons in golf, tennis, and dancing. No fewer than 538 hotels sprang up in this area of Eastern New York.\n\nWell known resorts in the area included The Concord, Grossinger's, Brickman's, Brown's Hotel, Kutsher's Hotel and Country Club, the Nevele, Friar Tuck Inn, Gibber's, Gilbert's, Granit, the Woodbine Hotel, the Heiden Hotel, Irvington, Lansman's, The Laurels Hotel and Country Club, The Pines Resort, Raleigh, Silverman's River View Hotel, Stevensville, Stiers, the Tamarack Lodge, the Olympic, and the Windsor Regency.\n\nTwo of the larger hotels in High View (north of Bloomingburg) were Shawanga Lodge and the Overlook. In 1959, the Shawanga hosted a conference that marked the beginning of serious research into lasers. The hotel burned to the ground in 1973.\nThe Overlook had entertainment and summer lodging through the late 1960s and was operated by the Schrier family. It included a main building and about 50 other bungalows, plus a five-unit cottage just across the street. It remains in a different form, no longer functioning as it was in its heyday.\n\nThe New York, Ontario & Western Railway carried passengers to the resorts from Weehawken, New Jersey, until 1948. The railroad was abandoned in 1957. Despite the improvement of roads such as the original New York State Route 17, the area is no longer a major travel destination.\n\nThe decline of the Catskills resorts was apparent as early as 1965. Entertainment in America was changing as the country ushered in the jet age. As ethnic barriers in the U.S. began to fall and travel to distant resorts became easier and cheaper, fewer Jewish American families in New York City went to the Catskills. By the early 1960s, between a quarter and a third of Grossinger's annual visitors were non-Jewish. Even the universalization of air-conditioned hotels across America drew customers away from the aging resorts primarily built before this innovation became popular. In the social and cultural upheavals of the 1960s, traditional resort vacations lost their appeal for many younger adults.\n\nSmaller, more modest hotels such as Youngs Gap and the Ambassador found themselves in a niche with a vanishing clientele and closed by the end of the 1960s. By the mid-1990s, nearly 300 hotels and motels had gone out of business in Sullivan County.\n\nThe 1970s took a toll on more lavish establishments such as the Flagler and The Laurels. In 1986 Grossinger's closed for renovations, and the property was abandoned by new owners midway through work. Grossinger's largest historic rival (and the largest of all the Borscht Belt resorts), the Concord, benefitted only temporarily, filing for bankruptcy in 1997 and closing a year later.\n\nIn 1987, New York's mayor Ed Koch proposed buying the Gibber Hotel in Kiamesha Lake to house the homeless. The idea was opposed by local officials. The hotel instead became a religious school, like many old hotels in the Catskills.\n\nPlans are now in place by those who purchased the former Borscht Belt resorts Concord Resort Hotel and Grossinger's to work with Native Americans in an attempt to bring gambling to the region. Because the Borscht Belt's prime has long passed and many of the resorts are abandoned, developers believe this is the only way to revitalize the region to the popularity it once had by attracting guests to world-class casinos and resorts such as the ones in New Jersey and Connecticut. However, large-scale casino plans have not come to fruition, mainly because there are no Indian reservations anywhere near the area (the Mohawk tribe's effort to build a Catskills casino was rejected for this very reason). Instead, the state government proposed legalizing off-reservation gambling, which required a positive referendum, passed in November 2013.\n\nThe Heiden Hotel in South Fallsburg, which was the location of the movie \"Sweet Lorraine\" starring Maureen Stapleton, was destroyed by fire in May 2008.\n\nThe Stevensville Hotel in Swan Lake, which was owned by the family of David G. Friehling, who pleaded guilty as an accomplice of Bernard Madoff's, has reopened as the Swan Lake Resort Hotel.\n\nThe former Homowack Lodge in Spring Glen, New York, was converted into a summer camp for Hassidic girls. Officials of the state Department of Health ordered the property evacuated in July 2009, citing health and safety violations.\n\nThe Granit later began operating as the Hudson Valley Resort.\n\nThe Tamarack Lodge caught fire in 2012, and 30 buildings were partially or completely destroyed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50734157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50734157", "title": "Broadcast ministry of Members Church of God International", "text": "Broadcast ministry of Members Church of God International\n\nBroadcast media is being utilized by the Members Church of God International (MCGI), an international Christian religious organization with headquarters in the Philippines, to preach the gospel and expand internationally. The church is producing religious programs in different languages, aired in various countries, by acquiring time slots in several television stations. The church also maintains its own radio and television network for its 24/7 terrestrial, satellite and internet broadcasts.\n\nThe MCGI started as a small group with less than a hundred believers in 1977. It is popularly known in the Philippines as Ang Dating Daan (ADD) (English: The Old Path), the title of its flagship radio and television program and currently the longest-running religious program in the Philippines with Eliseo Soriano (also known as \"Bro. Eli\") as the program's main host and the \"Overall Servant\" (Former title: \"Presiding Minister\") to MCGI. Most of its broadcast ministries are directly funded by the church, through voluntary contributions from its members, as the church do not accept monetary donations from non-members. Meanwhile, a few of its news and public affairs programs in the Philippines are supported by commercial advertisements.\n\nIts global evangelism is conducted mostly via AM radio, FM radio, terrestrial television, cable television and direct-to-home satellite transmissions. Other platforms include internet streaming, mobile applications and various forms of social media. The group also conducts regular Bible Expositions aired live via satellite in all MCGI local congregations and through the \"MCGI Broadcast\" mobile app.\n\nSoriano started his nightly town-to-town preaching in the 1970s but eventually realized that his lifetime is not enough to reach the entire Philippines. In 1980, he decided to go on radio and after a few years on television to preach the gospel. In 1999, the church took advantage of the advancement in internet technology. Its foray into satellite broadcasting happened in 2004, to reach more souls in different countries around the globe.\n\nIn October 1980, the 30-minute radio program \"Ang Dating Daan\" was aired in DWWA 1206 kHz with a shoe-string budget. In February 1983, the program was aired for the first time in television through IBC Channel 13. In 1997, the program moved to RJTV Channel 29, government-owned PTV-4 and later in SBN 21. In 1999, the church launched a nationwide radio broadcast through DZRH, RMN and 100 Radyo Natin stations.\n\nThe UNTV Public Service channel, Radyo La Verdad 1350 kHz, TOP Channel, The Truth Channel, TV Verdade and TV La Verdad are the official religious media services of the Members Church of God International.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2011, the MCGI programs reached the airwaves of India, Uruguay, Argentina, Bolivia and Portugal. To further boost viewership, the church acquired a 30-minute slot in Fox Channel which can be seen in over 50 cable networks in Central and South America. In 2012, MCGI launched its own channel TV La Verdad (English: Truth TV) for Spanish-speaking countries. In 2012, through a blocktime agreement with PBC, MCGI's own radio station in Mega Manila, UNTV Radio La Verdad 1350 kHz was launched.\n\n\"Ang Dating Daan\" is being aired internationally, with programs usually lasting for an hour or two, through blocktime agreements with local television networks.\n\nIn 2004, UNTV-37 became the permanent home of MCGI when it acquired an exclusive blocktime agreement with UNTV's parent, the Progressive Broadcasting Corporation. In 2007, the station became a \"Public Service Channel\" when MCGI affiliate Breakthrough and Milestones Productions International, Inc. (BMPI), acquired the entire production and management operations of UNTV. The station operates 24/7 in Metro Manila and surrounding provinces with a power of 60 kilowatts, with several low-powered relay stations in the provinces. UNTV was aired nationwide via Mabuhay Agila 2. In 2011, UNTV left Agila 2 and transferred its free-to-air broadcast feed to MEASAT-3a satellite which covers Asia and selected parts of Australia, Middle East, Europe and Africa. UNTV is also being carried by Sky Cable and more than 200 local cable operators and Cignal, the largest direct-to-home satellite provider in the Philippines. In 2016, it was also included in the line-up of ABS-CBN's newest DTH service, Sky Direct.\n\n</div>\n</div>\n\n</div>\n</div>\n\n</div>\n</div>\n\nIn late 2011, BMPI acquired DWUN (formerly DZXQ) from Mabuhay Broadcasting System and immediately run a test broadcast using UNTV broadcast feed. On January 16, 2012, it was formally launched as UNTV Radio La Verdad 1350 kHz along with the UNTV Mobile Radio booth, a first in Philippine radio history. It operates in Mega Manila with a 10,000 watts output. On February 13, 2017, the station changed its branding to simply Radyo La Verdad 1350 kHz.\n\nIn December 2009, the church's own religious channel TV Verdade (English: Truth TV) was launched in Brazil, airing \"O Caminho Antiguo\" in Portuguese via satellite. Its broadcast feed originates from a small garage, around 48 square meters, transformed into a makeshift broadcasting studio located in Florianópolis, the capital city of the state of Santa Catarina. In 2015, TV Verdade was granted the authority by \"Ministério das Comunicações\" (English: Ministry of Communications, abbreviated as \"MiniCom\") of Brazil to build and operate its own broadcast network. The network roll-out started in Minas Gerais, Brazil's second most populous state then followed by relay stations in the state of Paraná). In May 2016, its relay station in the municipality of Cornélio Procópio in Paraná was activated.\n\nIn February 2014, MCGI began its 24/7 free-to-air terrestrial broadcast of TV La Verdad (English \"The Truth TV\") in El Salvador, the smallest and most densely populated country in Central America.\n\nOn October 7, 2004, the church administration signed a contract with GlobeCast to air the TOP Channel in United States and Canada via a direct-to-home satellite broadcast, its own television channel featuring \"The Old Path\" as flagship program. On March 24, 2010, TOP Channel was aired in the Asia-Pacific region through Dream Satellite TV. Today, MCGI programs are carried by at least seven satellites across the globe.\n"}
{"id": "49434211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49434211", "title": "Buddha's Dispensation", "text": "Buddha's Dispensation\n\nBuddha's Dispensation (Buddha-sasana) is the time period which Dharma (Pali Canon) exist and follow. It is totally 5000 years after the Buddha's Parinirvana (pass away or \"Skandha Parinirvana\"). There are three types of Parinirvana. These are \"Klesha Parinirwana\", \"Skandha Parinirvana\" and \"Dhatu Parinirvana\".\n\nDhatu Parinirvana will occur the end of the Buddha's Dispensation (totally 5000 years after the Buddha's Skandha Parinirvana). It happens according to the Buddha's wish even though he doesn't exist. \nAll Buddha's Relics in the Ruwanwelisaya (the place where a large amount of Buddha's Relics exist) in Sri Lanka will join together and make a picture of a Buddha in the sky above Ruwanwelisaya. Then those relics and all Relics associated with Buddha in the human, Naga, heaven and Brahma worlds will came to the sky above the Vajrasana (diamond throne) in 'Bodh Gaya' of India and will make a complete picture of Buddha which will preach Dharma for the last time. This will not be a normal preaching like in the 'Sutta Pitaka' in Pali Canon. It will be a 'Samukkansika mode of preaching' extensively on 'Four Noble Truths' which preach with Buddha's super-normal abilities. This is a very long (containing many hundred thousand words) preaching, done in high speed but every one can understand each word clearly. With this preaching, many beings realize Nirvana. Then Vajrasana will come to the sky from the earth and all Buddha's Relics and Vajrasana will be completely burned out but without any ash.\n\nAfter this 'Dhatu Parinirvana' and when the last Sotāpanna human passed away from the earth it is said to be the end of Buddha's Dispensation. Before the end of Buddha's dispensation any one who correctly follows Buddha's words is said to be able realize the Nirvana. But after the Buddha's Dispensation it seems it is impossible since no one has the energy to correctly follow Buddha's words. But if any great being correctly follows Buddha's words even after the Buddha's Dispensation it is said to be able to realize the reality (Nirvana).\n\n1:, \n2:\n"}
{"id": "721873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=721873", "title": "Christian monasticism", "text": "Christian monasticism\n\nChristian monasticism is the devotional practice of individuals who live ascetic and typically cloistered lives that are dedicated to Christian worship. It began to develop early in the history of the Christian Church, modeled upon scriptural examples and ideals, including those in the Old Testament, but not mandated as an institution in the scriptures. It has come to be regulated by religious rules (e.g. the Rule of Saint Augustine, Anthony the Great, St Pachomius, the Rule of St Basil, the Rule of St Benedict,) and, in modern times, the Canon law of the respective Christian denominations that have forms of monastic living. Those living the monastic life are known by the generic terms monks (men) and nuns (women). The word \"monk\" originated from the Greek \"monachos\" \"monk\", itself from \"monos\" meaning \"alone\".\n\nMonks did not live in monasteries at first, rather, they began by living alone, as the word \"monos\" might suggest. As more people took on the lives of monks, living alone in the wilderness, they started to come together and model themselves after the original monks nearby. Quickly, the monks formed communities to further their ability to observe an ascetic life. According to Christianity historian Robert Louis Wilken, \"By creating an alternate social structure within the Church they laid the foundations for one of the most enduring Christian institutions . . .\" Monastics generally dwell in a monastery, whether they live there in community (cenobites), or in seclusion (recluses).\n\nThe basic idea of monasticism in all its varieties is seclusion or withdrawal from the world or society. The object of this is to achieve a life whose ideal is different from and largely at variance with that pursued by the majority of humanity, and the method adopted, no matter what its precise details may be, is always self-abnegation or organized asceticism. Monastic life is distinct from the \"religious orders\" such as the friars, canons regular, clerks regular, and the more recent religious congregations. The latter have essentially some special work or aim, such as preaching, teaching, liberating captives, etc., which occupies a large place in their activities. While monks have undertaken labours of the most varied character, in every case this work is extrinsic to the essence of the monastic state.\n\nBoth ways of living out the Christian life are regulated by the respective church law of those Christian denominations that recognize it (e.g., the Roman Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Anglican Church, or the Lutheran Church). Christian monastic life does not always involve communal living with like-minded Christians. Christian monasticism has varied greatly in its external forms, but, broadly speaking, it has two main types (a) the eremitical or secluded, (b) the cenobitical or city life. St. Anthony the Abbot may be called the founder of the first and St. Pachomius of the second. The monastic life is based on Jesus's amen to \"be perfect, therefore, as your heavenly Father is perfect\" (Matthew 5:48). This ideal, also called the state of perfection, can be seen, for example, in the \"Philokalia\", a book of monastic writings. Their manner of self-renunciation has three elements corresponding to the three evangelical counsels: poverty, chastity and obedience.\n\nMonks and friars are two distinct roles. In the thirteenth century \"… new orders of friars were founded to teach the Christian faith,\" because monasteries had declined.\n\nFirst Century groups such as the Essenes and the Therapeutae followed lifestyles that could be seen as precursors to Christian monasticism. Early Christian monasticism drew its inspiration from the examples of the Prophet Elijah and John the Baptist, who both lived alone in the desert, and above all from the story of Jesus’ time in solitary struggle with Satan in the desert, before his public ministry. The Carmelites find inspiration in the Old Testament prophet Elijah.\n\nFrom the earliest times within the Christian Church, there were probably individual hermits who lived a life in isolation in imitation of Jesus's 40 days in the desert. They have left no confirmed archaeological traces and only hints in the written record. Communities of virgins who had consecrated themselves to Christ are found at least as far back as the 2nd century. There were also individual ascetics, known as the \"devout\", who usually lived not in the deserts but on the edge of inhabited places, still remaining in the world but practicing asceticism and striving for union with God.\n\nEremitic monasticism, or solitary monasticism, is characterized by a complete withdrawal from society. The word ‘eremitic’ comes from the Greek word eremos which means desert. This name was given because of St. Anthony of the Desert, or St. Anthony of Egypt, who left civilization behind to live on a solitary Egyptian mountain in the third century. Though he was probably not the first Christian hermit, he is recognized as such as he was the first known one.\n\nPaul the Hermit is the first Christian historically known to have been living as a monk. In the 3rd Century Anthony of Egypt (252-356) lived as a hermit in the desert and gradually gained followers who lived as hermits nearby but not in actual community with him. This type of monasticism is called eremitical or \"hermit-like\".\n\nAn early form of \"proto-monasticism\" appeared as well in the 3rd century among Syriac Christians through the \"Sons of the covenant\" movement. Eastern Orthodoxy looks to Basil of Caesarea as a founding monastic legislator, as well to as the example of the Desert Fathers.\n\nAnother option for becoming a solitary monastic was to become an anchoress. This began because there were women who wanted to live the solitary lifestyle but were not able to live alone in the wild. Thus they would go to the Bishop for permission who would then perform the rite of enclosure. After this was completed the anchoress would live alone in a room that typically had a window that opened into a church so they could receive communion and participate in church services. There were two other windows that allowed food to be passed in and people to come seek advice. The most well known anchoress was Julian of Norwich who was born in England in 1342.\n\nWhile the earliest Desert Fathers lived as hermits, they were rarely completely isolated, but often lived in proximity to one another, and soon loose-knit communities began to form in such places as the Desert of Nitria and the Desert of Skete. Saint Macarius established individual groups of cells such as those at Kellia (founded in 328.) These monks were anchorites, following the monastic ideal of St. Anthony. They lived by themselves, gathering together for common worship on Saturdays and Sundays only.\n\nIn 346 St Pachomius established in Egypt the first cenobitic Christian monastery. At Tabenna in Upper Egypt, sometime around 323 AD, Pachomius decided to mold his disciples into a more organized community in which the monks lived in individual huts or rooms (\"cellula\" in Latin,) but worked, ate, and worshipped in shared space. The intention was to bring together individual ascetics who, although pious, did not, like Saint Anthony, have the physical ability or skills to live a solitary existence in the desert. This method of monastic organization is called cenobitic or \"community-based\". In Catholic theology, this community-based living is considered superior because of the obedience practiced and the accountability offered. The head of a monastery came to be known by the word for \"Father;\" - in Syriac, \"Abba\"; in English, \"Abbot\".\n\nGuidelines for daily life were created, and separate monasteries were created for men and women. St Pachomius introduced a monastic Rule of cenobitic life, giving everyone the same food and attire. The monks of the monastery fulfilled the obediences assigned them for the common good of the monastery. Among the various obediences was copying books. St Pachomius considered that an obedience fulfilled with zeal was greater than fasting or prayer.\n\nA Pachomian monastery was a collection of buildings surrounded by a wall. The monks were distributed in houses, each house containing about forty monks. There would be thirty to forty houses in a monastery. There was an abbot over each monastery, and provosts with subordinate officials over each house. The monks were divided into houses according to the work they were employed in: thus there would be a house for carpenters, a house for agriculturists, and so forth. But other principles of division seem to have been employed, e.g., there was a house for the Greeks. On Saturdays and Sundays all the monks assembled in the church for Mass; on other days the Office and other spiritual exercises were celebrated in the houses.\n\nFrom a secular point of view, a monastery was an industrial community in which almost every kind of trade was practised. This, of course, involved much buying and selling, so the monks had ships of their own on the Nile, which conveyed their agricultural produce and manufactured goods to the market and brought back what the monasteries required. From the spiritual point of view, the Pachomian monk was a religious living under a rule.\n\nThe community of Pachomius was so successful he was called upon to help organize others, and by one count by the time he died in 346 there were thought to be 3,000 such communities dotting Egypt, especially in the Thebaid. From there monasticism quickly spread out first to Palestine and the Judean Desert, Syria, North Africa and eventually the rest of the Roman Empire.\n\nIn 370 Basil the Great, monastic founder in Cappadocia, became bishop of Caesarea and wrote principles of ascetic life. Eastern monastic teachings were brought to the western church by Saint John Cassian (ca. 360 – ca. 435). As a young adult, he and his friend Germanus entered a monastery in Palestine but then journeyed to Egypt to visit the eremitic groups in Nitria. Many years later, Cassian founded a monastery of monks and probably also one of nuns near Marseilles. He wrote two long works, the \"Institutes\" and \"Conferences\". In these books he not only transmitted his Egyptian experience but also gave Christian monasticism a profound evangelical and theological basis.\n\nAt the time of his conversion in Milan in the years 386-387, Augustine was aware of the life of Saint Anthony in the desert of Egypt. Upon his return to Africa as a Christian in the year 388, however, Augustine and a few Christian friends founded at Thagaste a lay community. They became cenobites in the countryside rather than in the desert.\n\nSaint Benedict (c. 480 – 547 AD) lived for many years as a hermit in a cave near Subiaco, Italy. He was asked to be head over several monks who wished to change to the monastic style of Pachomius by living in community. Between the years 530 and 560, he wrote the Rule of Saint Benedict as a guideline for monks living in community.\n\nScholars such as Lester K. Little attribute the rise of monasticism at this time to the immense changes in the church brought about by Constantine's legalization of Christianity. The subsequent transformation of Christianity into the main Roman religion ended the position of Christians as a minority sect. In response a new form of dedication was developed. The long-term \"martyrdom\" of the ascetic replaced the violent physical martyrdom of the persecutions.\n\nOrthodox monasticism does not have religious orders as in the West, so there are no formal Monastic Rules (\"Regulae\"); rather, each monk and nun is encouraged to read all of the Holy Fathers and emulate their virtues. There is also no division between the \"active\" and \"contemplative\" life. Orthodox monastic life embraces both active and contemplative aspects.\n\nWithin the Eastern Orthodox Church, there exist three types of monasticism: eremitic, cenobitic, and the skete. The skete is a very small community, often of two or three (), under the direction of an Elder. They pray privately for most of the week, then come together on Sundays and Feast Days for communal prayer, thus combining aspects of both eremitic and coenobitic monasticism.\n\nEven before Saint Anthony the Great (the \"father of monasticism\") went out into the desert, there were Christians who devoted their lives to ascetic discipline and striving to lead an evangelical life (i.e., in accordance with the teachings of the Gospel).\nAs monasticism spread in the East from the hermits living in the deserts of Egypt to Palestine, Syria, and on up into Asia Minor and beyond, the sayings (\"apophthegmata\") and acts (\"praxeis\") of the Desert Fathers and Desert Mothers came to be recorded and circulated, first among their fellow monastics and then among the laity as well.\n\nAmong these earliest recorded accounts was the \"Paradise,\" by Palladius of Galatia, Bishop of Helenopolis (also known as the \"Lausiac History\", after the prefect Lausus, to whom it was addressed). Saint Athanasius of Alexandria (whose \"Life of Saint Anthony the Great\" set the pattern for monastic hagiography), Saint Jerome, and other anonymous compilers were also responsible for setting down very influential accounts. Also of great importance are the writings surrounding the communities founded by Saint Pachomius, the father of cenobiticism, and his disciple Saint Theodore, the founder of the skete form of monasticism.\n\nAmong the first to set forth precepts for the monastic life was Saint Basil the Great, a man from a professional family who was educated in Caesarea, Constantinople, and Athens. Saint Basil visited colonies of hermits in Palestine and Egypt but was most strongly impressed by the organized communities developed under the guidance of Saint Pachomius. Saint Basil's ascetical writings set forth standards for well-disciplined community life and offered lessons in what became the ideal monastic virtue: humility.\n\nSaint Basil wrote a series of guides for monastic life (the \"Lesser Asketikon\" the \"Greater Asketikon\" the \"Morals\", etc.) which, while not \"Rules\" in the legalistic sense of later Western rules, provided firm indications of the importance of a single community of monks, living under the same roof, and under the guidance—and even discipline—of a strong abbot. His teachings set the model for Greek and Russian monasticism but had less influence in the Latin West.\n\nOf great importance to the development of monasticism is the Saint Catherine's Monastery on Mount Sinai in Egypt. Here the Ladder of Divine Ascent was written by Saint John Climacus (c.600), a work of such importance that many Orthodox monasteries to this day read it publicly either during the Divine Services or in Trapeza during Great Lent.\n\nAt the height of the East Roman Empire, numerous great monasteries were established by the emperors, including the twenty \"sovereign monasteries\" on the Holy Mountain, an actual \"monastic republic\" wherein the entire country is devoted to bringing souls closer to God. In this milieu, the Philokalia was compiled.\n\nAs the Great Schism between East and West grew, conflict arose over misunderstandings about Hesychasm. Saint Gregory Palamas, bishop of Thessalonica, an experienced Athonite monk, defended Orthodox spirituality against the attacks of Barlaam of Calabria, and left numerous important works on the spiritual life.\n\nChristian monasticism was and continued to be a lay condition—monks depended on a local parish church for the sacraments. However, if the monastery was isolated in the desert, as were many of the Egyptian examples, that inconvenience compelled monasteries either to take in priest members, to have their abbot or other members ordained. A priest-monk is sometimes called a hieromonk. In many cases in Eastern Orthodoxy, when a bishopric needed to be filled, they would look to nearby monasteries to find suitable candidates, being good sources of men who were spiritually mature and generally possessing the other qualities desired in a bishop. Eventually, among the Orthodox Churches it became established by canon law that all bishops must be monks.\n\nMonastic centers thrive to this day in Bulgaria, Ethiopia, Georgia, Greece, Republic of Macedonia, Russia, Romania, Serbia, the Holy Land, and elsewhere in the Orthodox world, the Autonomous Monastic State of Mount Athos remaining the spiritual center of monasticism for the Eastern Orthodox Church. Since the fall of the Iron Curtain, a great renaissance of monasticism has occurred, and many previously empty or destroyed monastic communities have been reopened.\n\nMonasticism continues to be very influential in the Eastern Orthodox Church. According to the Sacred Canons, all Bishops must be monks (not merely celibate), and feast days to Glorified monastic saints are an important part of the liturgical tradition of the church. Fasting, Hesychasm, and the pursuit of the spiritual life are strongly encouraged not only among monastics but also among the laity.\n\nThere are also three levels of monks: The Rassophore, the Stavrophore, and the Schema-Monk (or Schema-Nun). Each of the three degrees represents an increased level of asceticism. In the early days of monasticism, there was only one level—the Great Schema—and even Saint Theodore the Studite argued against the establishment of intermediate grades, but nonetheless the consensus of the church has favored the development of three distinct levels.\n\nWhen a candidate wishes to embrace the monastic life, he will enter the monastery of his choice as a guest and ask to be received by the Hegumen (Abbot). After a period of at least three days the Hegumen may at his discretion clothe the candidate as a novice. There is no formal ceremony for the clothing of a novice; he (or she) would simply be given the \"Podraznik\", belt and \"skoufos\".\n\nAfter a period of about three years, the Hegumen may at his discretion tonsure the novice as a \"Rassophore\" monk, giving him the outer garment called the Rassa (Greek: \"Rason\"). A monk (or nun) may remain in this grade all the rest of his life, if he so chooses. But the Rite of Tonsure for the Rassophore refers to the grade as that of the \"Beginner\", so it is intended that the monk will advance on to the next level. The Rassophore is also given a klobuk which he wears in church and on formal occasions. In addition, Rassophores will be given a prayer rope at their tonsure.\n\nThe next rank, \"Stavrophore\", is the grade that most Russian monks remain all their lives. The title Stavrophore means \"cross-bearer\", because when Tonsured into this grade the monastic is given a cross to wear at all times. This cross is called a Paramand—a wooden cross attached by ribbons to a square cloth embroidered with the Instruments of the Passion and the words, \"I bear upon my body the marks of the Lord Jesus\" (). The Paramand is so called because it is worn under the Mantle (Greek: \"Mandyas\"; Church Slavonic: \"Mantya\"), which is a long cape which completely covers the monk from neck to foot. Among the Russians, Stavrophores are also informally referred to as \"mantle monks\". At his Tonsure, a Stavrophore is given a wooden hand cross and a lit candle, as well as a prayer rope.\nThe highest rank of monasticism is the \"Great Schema\" (Greek: \"Megaloschemos\"; Church Slavonic: \"Schimnik\"). Attaining the level of \"Schema monk\" is much more common among the Greeks than it is among the Russians, for whom it is normally reserved to hermits, or to very advanced monastics. The \"Schema monk\" or \"Schema nun\" wears the same habit as the Rassophore, but to it is added the \"Analavos\" (Church Slavonic: \"Analav\"), a garment shaped like a cross, covering the shoulders and coming down to the knees (or lower) in front and in back. This garment is roughly reminiscent of the scapular worn by some Roman Catholic orders, but it is finely embroidered with the Cross and instruments of the Passion (see illustration, above). The Klobuk worn by a Schema monk is also embroidered with a red cross and other symbols. the Klobuk may be shaped differently, more rounded at the top, in which case it is referred to as a \"koukoulion\". The skufia worn by a Schema monk is also more intricately embroidered.\n\nThe religious habit worn by Orthodox monastics is the same for both monks and nuns, except that the nuns wear an additional veil, called an \"apostolnik\".\n\nThe central and unifying feature of Orthodox monasticism is Hesychasm, the practice of silence, and the concentrated saying of the Jesus Prayer. All ascetic practices and monastic humility is guided towards preparing the heart for \"theoria\" or the \"divine vision\" that comes from the union of the soul with God. It should be noted, however, that such union is not accomplished by any human activity. All an ascetic can do is prepare the ground; it is for God to cause the seed to grow and bear fruit.\n\nThe introduction of monasticism into the West may be dated from about A.D. 340 when St. Athanasius visited Rome accompanied by the two Egyptian monks Ammon and Isidore, disciples of St. Anthony. The publication of the \"Vita Antonii\" some years later and its translation into Latin spread the knowledge of Egyptian monachism widely and many were found in Italy to imitate the example thus set forth. The first Italian monks aimed at reproducing exactly what was done in Egypt and not a few — such as St. Jerome, Rufinus, Paula, Eustochium and the two Melanias — actually went to live in Egypt or Palestine as being better suited to monastic life than Italy.\n\nThe earliest phases of monasticism in Western Europe involved figures like Martin of Tours, who after serving in the Roman legions converted to Christianity and established a hermitage near Milan, then moved on to Poitiers where a community gathered around his hermitage. He was called to become Bishop of Tours in 372, where he established a monastery at Marmoutiers on the opposite bank of the Loire River, a few miles upstream from the city. His cell was a hut of wood, and round it his disciples, who soon numbered eighty, dwelt in caves and huts. His monastery was laid out as a colony of hermits rather than as a single integrated community. The type of life was simply the Antonian monachism of Egypt.\n\nHonoratus of Marseilles was a wealthy Gallo-Roman aristocrat, who after a pilgrimage to Egypt, founded the Monastery of Lérins in 410, on an island lying off the modern city of Cannes. The monastery combined a community with isolated hermitages where older, spiritually-proven monks could live in isolation. Lérins became, in time, a center of monastic culture and learning, and many later monks and bishops would pass through Lérins in the early stages of their career. Honoratus was called to be Bishop of Arles.\n\nJohn Cassian began his monastic career at a monastery in Palestine and Egypt around 385 to study monastic practice there. In Egypt he had been attracted to the isolated life of hermits, which he considered the highest form of monasticism, yet the monasteries he founded were all organized monastic communities. About 415 he established two monasteries near Marseilles, one for men, one for women. In time these attracted a total of 5,000 monks and nuns. Most significant for the future development of monasticism were Cassian's \"Institutes\", which provided a guide for monastic life and his \"Conferences\", a collection of spiritual reflections.\n\nIt seems that the first Celtic monasteries were merely settlements where the Christians lived together — priests and laity, men, women, and children alike — as a kind of religious clan. According to James F. Kenney, every important church was a monastic establishment, with a small walled village of monks and nuns living under ecclesiastical discipline, and ministering to the people of the surrounding area. Monastic spirituality came to Britain and then Ireland from Gaul, by way of Lérins, Tours, and Auxerre. Its spirituality was heavily influenced by the Desert Fathers, with a monastic enclosure surrounding a collection of individual monastic cells. The British church employed an episcopal structure corresponding closely to the model used elsewhere in the Christian world. Illtud, David, Gildas, and Deiniol were leading figures in 6th-century Britain.\n\nAccording to Thomas O'Loughlin, \"Each monastery should be seen, as with most monasteries of the period, as an individual response to the monastic impulse by someone who had experienced monasticism and then went off to establish either a hermitage to which others later came or a cenobitic community.\" The monasteries were organized on a family basis. Next in importance to the abbot was the scribe, in charge of the scriptorium, the teaching function of the monastery, and the keeping of the annals. The role of scribe was often a path to the position of abbot. Hereditary right and relationship to the abbot were factors influencing appointment to monastic offices.\n\nBuildings would generally have been of wood, wattle and thatch. Monasteries tended to be cenobitical in that monks lived in separate cells but came together for common prayer, meals, and other functions. Celtic monasticism was characterized by an rigorous asceticism and a love for learning.\n\nSome more austere ascetics became hermits living in remote locations in what came to be called the \"green martyrdom\".\n\nWomen's communities were normally much smaller and poorer. The nuns had to do everything themselves, unless they had a couple of tenant-farmers to supply food, or pious who made donations. They spun and wove, kept their huts clean, milked their cows, and made their own meals, which could be meager.\n\nAround 397, Ninian, a Briton probably from the area south of the Firth of Clyde, dedicated his church at Whithorn to St. Martin of Tours. According to Bede, Ninian evangelized the southern Picts.\n\nKentigern was an apostle of the British Kingdom of Strathclyde in the late 6th century, and the founder and patron saint of the city of Glasgow. Due to anti-Christian sentiment he re-located for a time to Wales, where he established a monastery at St. Asaph's. Here he divided the monks into three groups. The unlettered were assigned to the duty of agriculture, the care of cattle, and the other necessary duties outside the monastery. He assigned 300 to duties within the cloister of the monastery, such as doing the ordinary work, and preparing food, and building workshops. The remaining monks, who were lettered, he appointed to the celebration of Divine service in church by day and by night.\n\nCadoc founded Llancarfan in the latter part of the fifth century. He received the religious habit from an Irish monk, St. Tathai, superior of a small community near Chepstow, in Monmouthshire. Returning to his native county, Cadoc built a church, and monastery, which was called Llancarfan, or the \"Church of the Stags\". There he also established a college and a hospital. His legend recounts that he daily fed a hundred clergy and a hundred soldiers, a hundred workmen, a hundred poor men, and the same number of widows. When thousands left the world and became monks, they very often did so as clansmen, dutifully following the example of their chief. Bishoprics, canonries, and parochial benefices passed from one to another member of the same family, and frequently from father to son. Their tribal character is a feature which Irish and Welsh monasteries had in common.\n\nIlltyd spent the first part of his religious life as a disciple of Cadoc at Llancarfan. He founded the monastery at Llanilltyd Fawr. One of his students was Paul Aurelian, a key figure in Cornish monasticism. Gildas the Wise was also a student at Llanilltyd Fawr, as was Samson of Dol. Samson founded a monastery in an abandoned Roman fort near the river Severn and lived for a time the life of a hermit in a nearby cave before going to Brittany.\n\nSt David established his monastery on a promontory on the western sea, well placed to be a centre of Insular Christianity. His establishment became known for its austerity and holiness, more than as a centre of learning, although when King Alfred sought a scholar for his court, he summoned Asser of St David's. Contemporary with David were Teilo, Cadoc, Padarn, Beuno and Tysilio among them.\n\nMany early medieval settlements in the region were occupied by hermitage chapels which are often dedicated to St Michael as the conventional slayer of pagan demons, as at St Michael's Mount.\n\nThe earliest monastic settlements in Ireland emerged at the end of the fifth century. It was from Illtud and his colleagues that the Irish sought guidance on matters of ritual and discipline. Enda of Aran is called the \"patriarch of Irish monasticism\". A warrior prince of Oriel, upon the death of his betrothed he decided to study for the priesthood. He first joined St Ailbe at Emly, before travelling to Ninian’s Candida Casa in Scotland, where he was ordained. About 484 he established the first Irish monastery at Killeaney on Aran Mor. Finnian of Clonard is said to have studied under Cadoc at Llancarfan in Glamorganshire. Finnian of Moville studied under Colman of Dromore and Mochae of Noendrum, before he too went to Candida Casa.\nIreland was a rural society of chieftains living in the countryside. As in Wales, if a clan chieftain accepted Christianity so did those he ruled. Commonly Irish monasteries were established by grants of land to an abbot or abbess who came from a local noble family. The monastery became the spiritual focus of the tribe or kin group. Successive abbots and abbesses were members of the founder’s family, a policy which kept the monastic lands under the jurisdiction of the family (and corresponded to Irish legal tradition, which only allowed the transfer of land within a family).\nIn Ireland, the abbot was often called \"coarb\", a term designating the heir of successor of the founder.\n\nThe abbots of the principal monasteries— such as Clonard, Armagh, Clonmacnoise, Swords, etc.—were of the highest rank and held in the greatest esteem. They wielded great power and had vast influence. The abbot usually was only a presbyter, but in the large monasteries there were one or more resident bishops who conferred orders and discharged the other functions of a bishop. The abbot was superior of the house, and all were subject to him.\n\nThe Irish rule was rigorous. It was more or less a copy of the French rule, as the French was a copy of the Thebaid. The daily routine of monastic life was prayer, study, and manual labor. With regard to food the rule was very strict. Only one meal a day, at 3 o'clock p.m., was allowed, except on Sundays and Feast days. Wednesdays and Fridays were fast days, except the interval between Easter and Whit Sunday. The food allowed was barley bread, milk, fish, and eggs. Flesh meat was not allowed except on great feasts.\n\nIn Ireland a distinctive form of penance developed, where confession was made privately to a priest, under the seal of secrecy, and where penance was given privately and ordinarily performed privately as well. Penance was considered therapeutic rather than punitive. Certain handbooks were made, called \"penitentials\", designed as a guide for confessors and as a means of regularising the penance given for each particular sin. According to Thomas Pollock Oakley, the penitential guides first developed in Wales, probably at St. David's, and spread by missions to Ireland.\n\nIrish monasticism maintained the model of a monastic community while, like John Cassian, marking the contemplative life of the hermit as the highest form of monasticism. Saints' lives frequently tell of monks (and abbots) departing some distance from the monastery to live in isolation from the community. Irish monastic rules specify a stern life of prayer and discipline in which prayer, poverty, and obedience are the central themes.\n\nIrish monks needed to learn Latin, the language of the Church. Thus they read Latin texts, both spiritual and secular, with an enthusiasm that their contemporaries on the continent lacked. Subjects taught included Latin, Greek, Hebrew, grammar, rhetoric, poetry, arithmetic, chronology, the Holy Places, hymns, sermons, natural science, history and especially the interpretation of Sacred Scripture. In 544 St Ciarán founded a monastery at Clonmacnoise, which became one of the most important centres of learning and religious life in Ireland. Contrary to common practice, the title of abbot which included the title \"Comarba of Saint Ciarán\" at the community was not hereditary, which reflected the humble origins of its founder. In 557 St Brendan founded a monastery at Clonfert.\n\nBy the end of the seventh century, Irish monastic schools were attracting students from England and from Europe.\n\nThe achievements of insular art, in illuminated manuscripts like the Book of Kells, high crosses, and metalwork like the Ardagh Chalice, and in the case of manuscript decoration had a profound influence on Western medieval art. The manuscripts were produced by and for monasteries, and evidence suggests that metalwork was produced in both monastic and royal workshops.\n\nThe monastery of Saint Brigit, at Kildare was a double monastery, with both men and women ruled by the Abbess, a pattern found in other monastic foundations.\n\nIrish monasticism spread widely, first to Scotland and Northern England, then to Gaul and Italy. Columba and his followers established monasteries at Bangor, on the northeastern coast of Ireland, at Iona, an island north-west of Scotland, and at Lindisfarne, which was founded by Aidan, an Irish monk from Iona, at the request of King Oswald of Northumbria. Abbots of Iona were normally appointed from the founders kin, with an abbot often naming hhis successor.\n\nColumbanus, an abbot from a Leinster noble family, traveled to Gaul in the late 6th century with twelve companions. Columbanus and his followers spread the Irish model of monastic institutions to the continent. A whole series of new monastic foundations under Irish influence sprang up, starting with Columbanus's foundations of Luxeuil and Fontaine-lès-Luxeuil and, sponsored by the Frankish King Childebert II. After Childebert's death Columbanus traveled east to Metz, where Theudebert II allowed him to establish a new monastery among the semi-pagan Alemanni in what is now Switzerland. One of Columbanus's followers founded the monastery of St. Gall on the shores of Lake Constance, while Columbanus continued onward across the Alps to the kingdom of the Lombards in Italy. There King Agilulf and his wife Theodolinda granted Columbanus land in the mountains between Genoa and Milan, where he established the monastery of Bobbio. From about 698 until the reign of Charlemagne in the 770s, the Hiberno-Scottish efforts in the Frankish Empire were continued by the Anglo-Saxon mission. The rule of St. Columbanus, which was originally followed in most of these monasteries, was eventually superseded by that of St. Benedict.\n\nBenedict of Nursia is the most influential of Western monks and is called \"the father of western monasticism\". He was educated in Rome but soon sought the life of a hermit in a cave at Subiaco, outside the city. He then attracted followers with whom he founded the monastery of Monte Cassino around 520, between Rome and Naples. He established the Rule, adapting in part the earlier anonymous Rule of the Master (\"Regula magistri\"), which was written somewhere south of Rome around 500, and defined the activities of the monastery, its officers, and their responsibilities. By the ninth century, largely under the inspiration of the Emperor Charlemagne, Benedict's Rule became the basic guide for Western monasticism.\n\nWhile the Celtic monasteries had a stronger connection to the semi-eremitical tradition of Egypt via Lérins and Tours, Benedict and his followers were more influenced by the cenobitism of St Pachomius and Basil the Great. Early Benedictine monasteries were relatively small and consisted of an oratory, refectory, dormitory, scriptorium, guest accommodation and out-buildings, a group of often quite separate rooms more reminiscent of a decent sized Roman villa than a large medieval abbey. A monastery of about a dozen monks would have been normal during this period.\n\nMedieval monastic life consisted of prayer, reading, and manual labor. Prayer was a monk’s first priority. Apart from prayer, monks performed a variety of tasks, such as preparing medicine, lettering, reading, and others. Also, these monks would work in the gardens and on the land. They might also spend time in the Cloister, a covered colonnade around a courtyard, where they would pray or read. Some monasteries held a scriptorium where monks would write or copy books. When the monks wrote, they used very neat handwriting and would draw illustrations in the books. As a part of their unique writing style, they decorated the first letter of each paragraph.\n\nThe efficiency of Benedict's cenobitic Rule in addition to the stability of the monasteries made them very productive. The monasteries were the central storehouses and producers of knowledge.Vikings started attacking Irish monasteries famous for learning in 793. One monk wrote about how he did not mind the bad weather one evening because it kept the Vikings from coming: \"Bitter is the wind tonight, it tosses the ocean’s white hair, I need not fear—as on a night of calm sea—the fierce raiders from Lochlann.\"\n\nIn the eleventh and twelfth centuries the growing pressure of monarchies and the nation states undermined the wealth and power of the orders. Monasticism continued to play a role in Catholicism, but after the Protestant reformation many monasteries in Northern Europe were shut down and their assets seized.\nIn the twelfth century, traditional monastic orders in Outremer evolved into military orders, initially for the purpose of defending pilgrims, although they later became larger military forced that played a key role in combating Muslim efforts at reconquest and propping up continued Christian rule in the region. These orders included the Knights Templar and the Hospitallers. In large part, the notion of military monasticism became so popular because of the advocacy of St. Bernard of Clairvaux, who believed that existing Christian methods of serving the Church's ends in war were inadequate, and that a group of dedicated warrior monks, who achieved spiritual merit and served God through waging war, was necessary. In his view, advancing the cause of Christendom was an end that justified means that might fall outside the bounds of just war. \n\nThese orders largely declined with the loss of Outremer in the 1200s - except for the Teutonic Order, which transferred itself to the Baltic where it took up a major role in the Baltic Crusades. In the Baltic, warrior monks used massacre and forced conversion to compel the submission of local pagan tribes, which disliked the Order's rule and rebelled repeatedly. They also enslaved members of defeated tribes, sometimes refusing to permit them to be baptized in order to keep them in a state of enslavement (which was theologically justifiable only against non-Christians). \n\nMany distinct monastic orders developed within Roman Catholicism and Protestantism. Monastic communities in the West, broadly speaking, are organized into orders and congregations guided by a particular religious rule, such as the Rule of St Augustine or especially Rule of St Benedict. Eastern Orthodoxy does not have a system of orders per se, though some of the Eastern Catholic Churches do.\n\n\nAfter the foundation of the Lutheran Churches, some monasteries in Lutheran lands (such as Amelungsborn Abbey near Negenborn and Loccum Abbey in Rehburg-Loccum) and convents (such as Ebstorf Abbey near the town of Uelzen and Bursfelde Abbey in Bursfelde) adopted the Lutheran Christian faith.\n\nLoccum Abbey and Amelungsborn Abbey have the longest traditions as Lutheran monasteries.\nSince the 19th century there have been a renewal in the monastic life among Protestants. There are many present-day Lutherans who practice the monastic teaching of the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nIn 1947 Mother Basilea Schlink and Mother Martyria founded the Evangelical Sisterhood of Mary, in Darmstadt, Germany. This movement is largely considered Evangelical or Lutheran in its roots.\n\nIn 1948 Bavarian Lutheran pastor Walter Hümmer and his wife Hanna founded the Communität Christusbruderschaft Selbitz.\n\nIn other Lutheran traditions \"The Congregation of the Servants of Christ\" was established at St. Augustine's House in Oxford, Michigan, in 1958 when some other men joined Father Arthur Kreinheder in observing the monastic life and offices of prayer. These men and others came and went over the years. The community has always remained small; at times the only member was Father Arthur. During the 35 years of its existence over 25 men tested their vocations to monastic life by living at the house for some time, from a few months to many years, but at Father Arthur's death in 1989 only one permanent resident remained. At the beginning of 2006, there are 2 permanent professed members and 2 long-term guests. Strong ties remain with this community and their brothers in Sweden (Östanbäck monastery) and in Germany the (Priory of St. Wigbert). In Germany, Communität Casteller Ring is a Lutheran Benedictine community for women. In 2011, an Augustinian religious order, the Priestly Society of St. Augustine (Societas Sacerdotalis Sancti Augustini) was established by the Anglo-Lutheran Catholic Church. It follows the Rule of St. Augustine, its headquarters is at Christ Lutheran Church ALCC. Kent Island, Maryland, and Fr. Jens Bargmann, Ph.D., is the Grand Prior.\n\nIn Lutheran Sweden, religious life for women had been established already in 1954, when Sister Marianne Nordström made her profession through contacts with The Order of the Holy Paraclete and Mother Margaret Cope (1886–1961) at St Hilda’s Priory, Whitby, Yorkshire.\n\nIn England, John Wycliffe, organized the Lollard Preacher Order (the \"Poor Priests\") to promote his views, many of which resounded with those held by the later Protestant Reformers.\n\nMonastic life in England came to an abrupt end with Dissolution of the Monasteries during the reign of King Henry VIII. The property and lands of the monasteries were confiscated and either retained by the king or sold to catholic landowners or given to loyal protestant nobility. Monks and nuns were pensioned off and retired or some were forced to either flee for the continent or to abandon their vocations. For around 300 years, there were no monastic communities within any of the Anglican churches.\n\nShortly after the Oxford Movement began to advocate restoring catholic faith and practice to the Church of England (see Anglo-Catholicism), there was felt to be a need for a restoration of the monastic life. Anglican priest John Henry Newman established a community of men at Littlemore near Oxford in the 1840s while he was vicar of Church of St Mary and St Nicholas, Littlemore. From then forward, there have been many communities of monks, friars, sisters, and nuns established within the Anglican Communion. In 1848, Mother Priscilla Lydia Sellon founded the Anglican Sisters of Charity and became the first woman to take religious vows within the Anglican Communion since the Reformation. In October 1850 the first building specifically built for the purpose of housing an Anglican Sisterhood was consecrated at Abbeymere in Plymouth. It housed several schools for the destitute, a laundry, printing press and soup kitchen. From the 1840s and throughout the following one hundred years, religious orders for both men and women proliferated in the UK and the United States, as well as in various countries of Africa, Asia, Canada, India and the Pacific.\n\nSome Anglican religious communities are contemplative, some active, but a distinguishing feature of the monastic life among Anglicans is that most practice the so-called \"mixed life\", a combination of a life of contemplative prayer with active service. Anglican religious life closely mirrors that of Roman Catholicism. Like Roman Catholic religious, Anglican religious also take the three vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience. Religious communities live together under a common rule, reciting the Divine Office and celebrating the Eucharist daily.\n\nIn the early 20th century when the Anglo-Catholic movement was at its height, the Anglican Communion had hundreds of orders and communities, and thousands of religious. However, since the 1960s there has been a sharp falling off in the numbers of religious in many parts of the Anglican Communion, most notably in the United Kingdom and the United States. Many once large and international communities have been reduced to a single convent or monastery composed of elderly men or women. In the last few decades of the 20th century, novices have for most communities been few and far between. Some orders and communities have already become extinct. There are however, still thousands of Anglican religious working today in religious communities around the world. While vocations remain few in some areas, Anglican religious communities are experiencing exponential growth in Africa, Asia, and Oceania.\n\nAround 1964, Reuben Archer Torrey III, an Episcopal missionary, grandson of R. A. Torrey, founded Jesus Abbey as a missionary community in Korea. It has some links with the Episcopal Church and holds an Evangelical doctrine.\n\nIn February 2001, the United Methodist Church organized the Saint Brigid of Kildare Monastery. It is a Methodist-Benedictine residential double monastery in Collegeville, Minnesota. Besides monastic orders, the Order of Saint Luke is a dispersed religious order within Methodism.\n\nThe Community of the Sisterhood Emmanuel was founded in 1973 in Makak - in the Centre Province by Mother Marie, one of the first female Pastors of the Presbyterian Church in Cameroon. In 1975 she moved the community to the present site- at Agyati in Bafut. It has 10 finally consecrated Sisters, four in simple vows and a handful of others in formation. The Sisters are trained in strong collaboration with the sister Institutes of the Catholic Church. They say that one of their charisms is ecumenism. The Sisterhood Emmanuel is the only Presbyterian Monastery in Cameroon.\n\nAnabaptist Christians \"retained many elements of the monastic understanding of a 'holy life' that followed true faith\". The Hutterites and Bruderhof, for example, live in intentional communities with their big houses having \"ground floors for common work, meals and worship, the two-storey attics with small rooms, like monastic cells, for married couples\".\n\nThe Shakers, who are also known as the \"Shaking Quakers\", have been characterized as a \"Protestant monastic order providing refuge and otherworldly compensation\". They practice a celibate and communal lifestyle, pacifism, and their model of equality of the sexes, which they institutionalized in their society in the 1780s. They are also known for their simple living, architecture, and furniture. Sincere newcomers are invited to become Shakers:\n\nCurrently, there are two remaining Shakers, Brother Arnold Hadd and Sister June Carpenter, though they hope that others will join them at the only remaining Shaker community, the Sabbathday Lake Shaker Village.\n\nChristian monasticism is experiencing renewal in the form of several new foundations with an 'inter-Christian' vision for their respective communities.\n\nIn 1944 Roger Schütz, a pastor of the Swiss Reformed Church, founded a small religious brotherhood in France which became known as the Taizé Community. Although he was partly inspired by the hope of reviving monasticism in the Protestant tradition, the brotherhood was interdenominational, accepting Roman Catholic brothers, and is thus an ecumenical rather than a specifically Protestant community.\n\nThe Order of Ecumenical Franciscans is a religious order of men and women devoted to following the examples of Saint Francis of Assisi and Saint Clare of Assisi in their life and understanding of the Christian gospel: sharing a love for creation and those who have been marginalized. It includes members of many different denominations, including Roman Catholics, Anglicans, and a range of Protestant traditions. The Order understands its charism to include not only ecumenical efforts and the traditional emphases of the Franciscans in general, but also to help to develop relationships between the various Franciscan orders.\n\nAdditional expressions of ecumenical monasticism can be seen in the Bose Monastic Community and communities of the New Monasticism movement arising from Protestant Evangelicalism.\n\nIn 1999 an independent Protestant order was founded named The Knights of Prayer Monastic Order. The community maintains several monks in its Portland, Oregon, cloister and has an international network of associated lay people. It is not affiliated with any particular congregation.\n\nIn traditional Catholic societies, monastic communities often took charge of social services such as education and healthcare. The legacy of monasteries outside remains an important current in modern society. Max Weber compared the closeted and Puritan societies of the English Dissenters, who sparked much of the industrial revolution, to monastic orders. Many Utopian thinkers (starting with Thomas More) felt inspired by the common life of monks to apply it to the whole society (an example is the phalanstère). Modern universities have also attempted to emulate Christian monasticism. Even in the Americas, universities are built in the gothic style of twelfth century monasteries. Communal meals, dormitory residences, elaborate rituals and dress all borrow heavily from the monastic tradition. Today monasticism remains an important part of the Catholic, Eastern Orthodox and Anglican faiths.\n\nThe capitulary of 789 reads: \"Let every monastery and every abbey have its school, in which boys may be taught the Psalms, the system of musical notation, singing, arithmetic and grammar\". There can be no doubt that by boys are meant not only the candidates for the monastery and the wards (generally the children of nobles) committed to the care of the monks, but also the children of the village or country district around the monastery, for whom there was usually an external school attached to groups of monastic buildings.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, monasteries conserved and copied ancient manuscripts in their scriptoria. A prospective monk first learned grammar, logic, and oratory. Later, he would take up mathematics, astronomy, and music. The students would use a stylus on wax. Later, when their handwriting improved, they would be given ink and parchment. Eventually, many of those schools became universities. Monks in scriptoria copied texts of Greece and Rome, as well as religious texts, and kept these manuscripts from being lost during the tumultuous Middle Ages.\n\n Monastic pharmacies stored and studied medicaments. Some of the works that the monks copied were by medical writers, and reading and copying these works helped create a store of medical knowledge. Monasteries had infirmaries to treat the monks, travelers, the poor, old, weak and sick. In 2005, archeologists uncovered waste at Soutra Aisle which helped scientists figure out how people in the Middle Ages treated certain diseases, such as scurvy; because of the vitamin C in watercress, patients would eat it to stop their teeth from falling out. The same archeological group discovered hemlock, a known pain killer, in the drains of the hospital.\n\nMonasteries also aided in the development of agricultural techniques. The requirement of wine for the Mass led to the development of wine culture, as shown in the discovery of the \"méthode champenoise\" by Dom Perignon. Several liquors like \"Bénédictine\" and the Trappist beers were also developed in monasteries. Even today many monasteries and convents are locally renowned for their cooking specialties.\n\nThe consequence of this centralisation of knowledge was that they initially controlled both public administration and education, where the trivium led through the quadrivium to theology. Christian monks cultivated the arts as a way of praising God. Gregorian chant and miniatures are examples of the practical application of quadrivium subjects.\n\nThe status of monks as apart from secular life (at least theoretically) also served a social function. Dethroned Visigothic kings were tonsured and sent to a monastery so that they could not claim the crown back. Monasteries became a place for second sons to live in celibacy so that the family inheritance went to the first son; in exchange the families donated to the monasteries. Few cities lacked both a St Giles house for lepers outside the walls and a Magdalene house for prostitutes and other women of notoriety within the walls, and some orders were favored by monarchs and rich families to keep and educate their maiden daughters before arranged marriage.\n\nThe monasteries also provided refuge to those like Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor who retired to Yuste in his late years, and his son Philip II of Spain, who was functionally as close to a monastic as his regal responsibilities permitted.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49985602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49985602", "title": "Definition of religion", "text": "Definition of religion\n\nThe definition of religion is a controversial subject in religious studies with scholars failing to agree on any one definition. Oxford Dictionary defines religion as the belief in and worship of a superhuman controlling power, especially a personal God or gods. Others such as Wilfred Cantwell Smith, have tried to correct a perceived Judeo-Christian and Western bias in the definition and study of religion. Thinkers such as Daniel Dubuisson have doubted that the term religion has any meaning outside of western cultures, while others, such as Ernst Feil even doubt that it has any specific, universal meaning even there.\n\nScholars have failed to agree on a definition of religion. There are however two general definition systems: the sociological/functional and the phenomenological/philosophical.\n\n\nSome jurisdictions refuse to classify specific religions as religions, arguing that they are instead heresies, even if they are widely viewed as a religion in the academic world.\n\nReligion is a modern Western concept. Parallel concepts are not found in many current and past cultures; there is no equivalent term for religion in many languages. Scholars have found it difficult to develop a consistent definition, with some giving up on the possibility of a definition. Others argue that regardless of its definition, it is not appropriate to apply it to non-Western cultures.\n\nAn increasing number of scholars have expressed reservations about ever defining the essence of religion. They observe that the way we use the concept today is a particularly modern construct that would not have been understood through much of history and in many cultures outside the West (or even in the West until after the Peace of Westphalia). The MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions states:\nThe anthropologist Clifford Geertz defined religion as a\nAlluding perhaps to Tylor's \"deeper motive\", Geertz remarked that\nThe theologian Antoine Vergote took the term supernatural simply to mean whatever transcends the powers of nature or human agency. He also emphasized the cultural reality of religion, which he defined as\nPeter Mandaville and Paul James intended to get away from the modernist dualisms or dichotomous understandings of immanence/transcendence, spirituality/materialism, and sacredness/secularity. They define religion as\nAccording to the MacMillan Encyclopedia of Religions, there is an experiential aspect to religion which can be found in almost every culture:\n\nFriedrich Schleiermacher in the late 18th century defined religion as \"das schlechthinnige Abhängigkeitsgefühl\", commonly translated as \"the feeling of absolute dependence\".\n\nHis contemporary Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel disagreed thoroughly, defining religion as \"the Divine Spirit becoming conscious of Himself through the finite spirit.\"\n\nEdward Burnett Tylor defined religion in 1871 as \"the belief in spiritual beings\". He argued that narrowing the definition to mean the belief in a supreme deity or judgment after death or idolatry and so on, would exclude many peoples from the category of religious, and thus \"has the fault of identifying religion rather with particular developments than with the deeper motive which underlies them\". He also argued that the belief in spiritual beings exists in all known societies.\n\nIn his book \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\", the psychologist William James defined religion as \"the feelings, acts, and experiences of individual men in their solitude, so far as they apprehend themselves to stand in relation to whatever they may consider the divine\". By the term divine James meant \"any object that is god\"like\", whether it be a concrete deity or not\" to which the individual feels impelled to respond with solemnity and gravity.\n\nThe sociologist Émile Durkheim, in his seminal book \"The Elementary Forms of the Religious Life\", defined religion as a \"unified system of beliefs and practices relative to sacred things\". By sacred things he meant things \"set apart and forbidden—beliefs and practices which unite into one single moral community called a Church, all those who adhere to them\". Sacred things are not, however, limited to gods or spirits. On the contrary, a sacred thing can be \"a rock, a tree, a spring, a pebble, a piece of wood, a house, in a word, anything can be sacred\". Religious beliefs, myths, dogmas and legends are the representations that express the nature of these sacred things, and the virtues and powers which are attributed to them.\n\nEchoes of James' and Durkheim's definitions are to be found in the writings of, for example, Frederick Ferré who defined religion as \"one's way of valuing most comprehensively and intensively\". Similarly, for the theologian Paul Tillich, faith is \"the state of being ultimately concerned\", which \"is itself religion. Religion is the substance, the ground, and the depth of man's spiritual life.\"\n\nWhen religion is seen in terms of sacred, divine, intensive valuing, or ultimate concern, then it is possible to understand why scientific findings and philosophical criticisms (e.g., those made by Richard Dawkins) do not necessarily disturb its adherents.\nA number of scholars have pointed out that the terminology used in the study of religion in the west derives from Judeo-Christian tradition, and that the basic assumptions of religion as an analytical category are all Western in origin. This idea was first raised by Wilfred Cantwell Smith in his 1962 book, \"The Meaning and End of Religion\". Among the main proponents of this theory of religion are Daniel Dubuisson, Timothy Fitzgerald, Talal Asad, and Jason Ānanda Josephson. These social constructionists argue that religion is a modern concept that developed from Christianity and was then applied inappropriately to non-Western cultures.\n\nWhile few would dispute that the concept of religion does have a historical genealogy, there is some disagreement about what the Western origin of the term has meant historically. Some such as Tomoko Masuzawa have felt that the equation of religion with Christianity had the effect of diminishing other traditions, especially in the study of comparative religions as it developed during the high point of Western imperialism. Others have felt that this sort of criticism overestimates the influence that Western academic thought had on the rest of the world.\n\nDaniel Dubuisson, a French anthropologist, argues that the idea of religion has changed a lot over time and that one cannot fully understand its development by relying on consistent use of the term, which \"tends to minimize or cancel out the role of history\". \"What the West and the history of religions in its wake have objectified under the name 'religion' is ... something quite unique, which could be appropriate only to itself and its own history.\" He notes that St. Augustine's definition of \"religio\" differed from the way we used the modern word religion.\n\nDubuisson prefers the term \"cosmographic formation\" to religion. Dubuisson says that, with the emergence of religion as a category separate from culture and society, there arose religious studies. The initial purpose of religious studies was to demonstrate the superiority of the living or universal European world view to the dead or ethnic religions scattered throughout the rest of the world, expanding the teleological project of Schleiermacher and Tiele to a worldwide ideal religiousness. Due to shifting theological currents, this was eventually supplanted by a liberal-ecumenical interest in searching for Western-style universal truths in every cultural tradition.\n\nAccording to Fitzgerald, religion is not a universal feature of all cultures, but rather a particular idea that first developed in Europe under the influence of Christianity. Fitzgerald argues that from about the 4th century CE Western Europe and the rest of the world diverged. As Christianity became commonplace, the charismatic authority identified by Augustine, a quality we might today call religiousness, exerted a commanding influence at the local level. As the Catholic Church lost its dominance during the Protestant Reformation and Christianity became closely tied to political structures, religion was recast as the basis of national sovereignty, and religious identity gradually became a less universal sense of spirituality and more divisive, locally defined, and tied to nationality. It was at this point that religion was dissociated from universal beliefs and moved closer to dogma in both meaning and practice. However, there was not yet the idea of dogma as a personal choice, only of established churches. With the Enlightenment religion lost its attachment to nationality, says Fitzgerald, but rather than becoming a universal social attitude, it now became a personal feeling or emotion.\n\nTalal Asad later refined this notion by showing that many assumptions about religion derive specifically from post-Enlightenment Christianity.\nAsad argues that before the word religion came into common usage, Christianity was a \"disciplina\", a rule just like that of the Roman Empire. This idea can be found in the writings of St. Augustine (354–430). Christianity was then a power structure opposing and superseding human institutions, a literal Kingdom of Heaven. It was the discipline taught by one's family, school, church, and city authorities, rather than something calling one to self-discipline through symbols.\n\nThese ideas are developed by S. N. Balagangadhara. In the Age of Enlightenment, Balagangadhara argues that the idea of Christianity as the purest expression of spirituality was supplanted by the concept of religion as a worldwide practice. This caused such ideas as religious freedom, a reexamination of classical philosophy as an alternative to Christian thought, and more radically Deism among intellectuals such as Voltaire. Much like Christianity, the idea of religious freedom was exported around the world as a civilizing technique, even to regions such as India that had never treated spirituality as a matter of political identity.\n\nMore recently, in \"The Invention of Religion in Japan\", Josephson has argued that while the concept of religion was Christian in its early formulation, non-Europeans (such as the Japanese) did not just acquiesce and passively accept the term's meaning. Instead they worked to interpret religion (and its boundaries) strategically to meet their own agendas and staged these new meanings for a global audience. In nineteenth century Japan, Buddhism was radically transformed from a pre-modern philosophy of natural law into a religion, as Japanese leaders worked to address domestic and international political concerns. In summary, Josephson argues that the European encounter with other cultures has led to a partial de-Christianization of the category religion. Hence religion has come to refer to a confused collection of traditions with no possible coherent definition.\n\nGeorge Lindbeck, a Lutheran and a postliberal theologian (but not a social constructionist), says that religion does not refer to belief in God or a transcendent Absolute, but rather to \"a kind of cultural and/or linguistic framework or medium that shapes the entirety of life and thought ... it is similar to an idiom that makes possible the description of realities, the formulation of beliefs, and the experiencing of inner attitudes, feelings, and sentiments.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26641874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26641874", "title": "El Tiempo (Istanbul)", "text": "El Tiempo (Istanbul)\n\nEl Tiempo was a Ladino language newspaper published in Constantinople/Istanbul in the years 1872–1930. \"El Tiempo\" was the first Ladino newspaper published in Istanbul. It was also the longest-running Ladino newspaper in the city. It was published as a daily newspaper, later being converted into a biweekly. It soon became the most influential newspaper of its time, with a circulation of up to 10,000. From July 1882 to 1930 \"El Tiempo\" was published three times a week. Politically, the newspaper supported the positions of Turkish reformers. \n\nAt the time of the First World War, half of the adult Jews in the city were subscribers of \"El Tiempo\". However, from that point onwards the influence of the newspaper declined sharply. \n\nDuring the initial phase of its history the newspaper was patronized by Hayim Carmona. His son Isaac Carmona served as its editor from its founding year. After his father's death in 1883, Isaac Carmona took over as patron of the newspaper whilst the post of editor passed on to Mercado Fresco and Sami Alkabez. After a few years, David Fresco became editor. He served as editor of the newspaper for almost fifty years.\n\n\"El Tiempo\" was supported by the \"Alliance Israélite Universelle\". As a result, the newspaper promoted the teaching of the French language to its readers. Moreover, it sought to educate its readers in the Turkish language. It ran a section in Turkish (written in the Hebrew alphabet) every two-three days. The world-view of the paper in its early phase was largely Eurocentric, reporting events from the capitals of Europe (Paris, London, Vienna, Budapest and Berlin) whilst paying little attention to events inside the Ottoman Empire (including Constantinople/Istanbul itself). Fictional stories published in the newspaper were largely translations from French. The promotion of the French language was however somewhat subdued in the 1890s, but the language used in articles was often a heavily French-influenced Ladino.\n\nOnce Zionism emerged as a political force, \"El Tiempo\" responded by proclaiming its loyalty to the Ottoman Empire. Within the Ladino Jewish community in Constantinople/Istanbul (where Zionist ideas were beginning to take root) \"El Tiempo\" argued that Ottoman Jews ought to remain Ottoman nationals. There was a brief period (prior to 1910) during which discussions were ongoing between the World Zionist Organization and \"El Tiempo\", but any re-evaluation of Zionism on behalf of \"El Tiempo\" was sealed as David Fresco aligned with prominent anti-Zionist Rabbi Chaim Nahum. Fresco argued in favour of assimilation of the Ottoman Jews into Turkish society and the promotion of the use of the Turkish language.\n\nhttps://www.encyclopedia.com/religion/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/fresco-david\n"}
{"id": "1469427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1469427", "title": "Fellowship of Isis", "text": "Fellowship of Isis\n\nThe Fellowship of Isis (FOI) is an international spiritual organisation devoted to promoting awareness of the Goddess. It is dedicated specifically to the Egyptian goddess Isis because the FOI co-founders believed Isis best represented the energies of the dawning Aquarian Age. The FOI is a multi-faith, multi-racial, and multi-cultural organisation, and despite worshipping pagan deities, does not consider itself to be a Neopagan faith.\n\nThe FOI was founded at Huntington Castle, Co. Carlow, Ireland at the Vernal Equinox of 1976. The three co-founders were Olivia Robertson and her brother, Lawrence Durdin-Robertson (grandchildren of Thomas Herbert Robertson) and Lawrence's wife Pamela. Their aim was to create a fellowship to \"help the Goddess actively in the manifestation of Her divine plan.\" Olivia has described Isis as \"God in female form.\" The FOI grew out of a \"working group\" created in 1963 called the Huntington Castle Centre for Meditation and Study. This Centre was active in gathering together various occult and theological figures such as Ross Nichols, Josephine and Mohun Lall, and Gerald Gough. The experiences shared within this group, along with the personal spiritual revelations and experiences of the three FOI co-founders led to the eventual founding of the Fellowship of Isis on the Vernal Equinox, 1976. From 1976 until the early 1990s, the group steadily grew.\n\nIn August 1993, the Fellowship of Isis was represented at the Parliament of the World's Religions at Chicago by Olivia Robertson and other member delegates. It is the first time that the Religion of the Goddess has been acknowledged as a world faith at this Parliament. The Parliament \"became a showcase for the new religions in America, especially since mainstream Christianity was much underrepresented . . . Two feminist neopagan groups, the Covenant of the Goddess and the Fellowship of Isis, were among the sponsors of the parliament.\"\n\nCustodianship of the Fellowship of Isis Foundation Centre is now under the aegis of the Durdin-Robertsons, heirs of the co-founders. In 2011, Olivia Robertson named her niece, Cressida Pryor, successor and FOI steward.\n\nIn October 2014, Cressida announced the Irish-based Circle of Brigid the \"central parliament\" and \"executive board\" of the Fellowship of Isis Foundation Centre, of which she is overall adviser. The Circle of Brigid is also responsible for festivals at the Castle Centre in Ireland and has a subcommittee to sort ethics grievances.\n\nThe Fellowship is a globally organised religion, whose international and Internet presence is very large by comparison with its Irish base.\n\n\"Over the past 30 years a body of liturgy has developed, detailing how the [Manifesto] principles can be practised by interested members through establishing a relationship between self and deity. Members are encouraged to express this spiritual relationship by enacting rituals, prayers and meditations, as detailed in the liturgy. This liturgy is drawn from the ritual structures of contemporary paganisms, Goddess spirituality and diverse archaeological scholarship into religious experience in the ancient world.\" The Liturgy of the Fellowship of Isis was written by Olivia Robertson, each ritual honouring different pantheons, and including a divinely channelled oracle encouraging spiritual communion with that Deity. These rites may be used for personal spiritual enhancement or, via instruction from a Fellowship of Isis centre, various degrees may be attained.\n\nThe stated goal of the Fellowship of Isis is to support and promote the idea of the Divine Feminine. The Fellowship of Isis Manifesto sets out the basic principles of this society. The Fellowship accepts religious toleration, and is not exclusivist. Members are free to maintain other religious allegiances. The good in all faiths is honoured. The Fellowship of Isis has no particular affiliations. It practices total religious tolerance, forbids sacrifice of any kind and discourages asceticism.\n\nIt is sometimes considered pagan, but co-founder Olivia Robertson stated in 2002: \"We are happy to have thousands of Pagans among our 21,000 members in so many countries. But we also have Catholics, Protestants, Buddhists, Spiritualists and Hindus as members. All love and follow the religion of Isis of 10,000 Names.\"\n\nAll members in the Fellowship of Isis have equal privileges within it, and membership is free. Membership is open to anyone who wishes to join – once an individual has read through the Fellowship of Isis Manifesto and finds themselves in agreement with the principles laid out within it. There are no vows of secrecy. Members are free to resign at any time, if they so choose and to rejoin again at a later time.\n\nThe Fellowship is dedicated to spreading the religion of all the Goddesses throughout this planet. The Gods are also venerated. The Goddess is seen as Deity, the Divine Mother of all beings, as well as the embodiment of Truth and Beauty. \"The ecumenical nature of this nonprofit organization reveals itself in a membership that includes Protestants, Catholics, Jews, Hindus, Buddhists, Shintoists, Cabalists, Spiritualists, and Wiccan and pagan worshippers of all kinds.\"\n\nFOI sub-groups, called \"FOI Foundation Center Societies\" or \"Daughter Societies\" of the Fellowship of Isis consist of the ‘College of Isis’ (Lyceums), the ‘Spiral of the Adepti’ (Iseums), the ‘Spiral of Alchemy’ (Solar Iseums), the 'Druid Clan of Dana' (Groves) and the 'Noble Order of Tara' (Priories). There are sub-chapters of these societies of the FOI in many major cities and countries around the world.\n\nThe Fellowship of Isis claims over 24,000 members in nearly a hundred countries. Members often blend their own traditions and beliefs with those offered by the Fellowship.\n"}
{"id": "28792019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28792019", "title": "Freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus", "text": "Freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus\n\nThe constitution of Northern Cyprus protects the freedom of religion, and it states that Northern Cyprus is a secular state. The US Department of State report in 2002 stated that religious freedom was protected by law in Northern Cyprus and the government generally respected the freedom of religion. The freedom of religion report in 2007 by US Department of State also stated that \"Turkish Cypriot authorities generally respected this right in practice\" and the practice of religion was generally free. In 2009, Minority Rights Group International also reported that \"Turkish Cypriot authorities respected religious freedom in general\".\n\nThere are two Anglican churches is Northern Cyprus. They are:\n\nIn 2010, the US Department of State reported that \"Greek Cypriot Orthodox and Maronite Catholics were allowed to perform religious services on a regular basis, without prior permission.\"\n\nOn 28 September 2010, Resolution 1631, was approved by the U.S. House of Representatives:\n\"... calling for the protection of religious sites and artifacts from and in Turkish-occupied areas of northern Cyprus as well as for general respect for religious freedom.\"\n\nThe Turkish Foreign Ministry responded with a press released statement, saying that the resolution had \"many factual errors which may harm the credibility of the House of Representatives\".\n\nOn 27 January 2011, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in written declaration no. 467, condemned the alleged interruption of the Christmas mass in Northern Cyprus by Turkish troops and restrictions to the right to freedom of religion and worship. The declaration claimed that Turkish troops forced the priest conducting the service to remove his vestments and ordered everybody to leave the church, thus violating the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nOn 18 March 2011, 204 Greek school books, including religious books, that were being taken to the schools at Rizokarpaso were confiscated by Turkish Cypriot customs officers at the Pergamos village barricade. The Turkish Cypriot daily newspaper \"Afrika\", in a front page article, criticised those who claim that there is freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus when the religious books were confiscated.\n\nOn 20 May 2016, Northern Cypriot Foreign Minister Tahsin Ertuğruloğlu restricted Greek Orthodox communities to only hold a single religious service per year, with the exceptions of the Apostolos Andreas Monastery in Rizokarpaso, the Monastery of St. Barnabas in Famagusta and St. Mamas' Church in Morphou. The remaining churches could be used for one of the following three feasts: the church's Name Day, Easter or Christmas. Undersecretary Mustafa Lakadamyalı claimed that the move was to prevent the \"abuse\" of the permission to hold masses, also citing difficulties with the policing of more than one mass a day or frequent masses. Lakadamyalı also said that \"whilst some TRNC citizens can pass to the south even for worship, some absolutely cannot\". No restriction was placed on Maronites.\n\nThe decision was harshly criticized by Turkish Cypriot group Famagusta Initiative as \"chauvinist and intolerant\" and it was pointed out that no problem was encountered in the masses which took place in, for example, the Nestorian Church in Famagusta. Ertuğruloğlu's decision was also criticized by Burak Mavis of the Turkish Cypriot Teachers’ Trade Union (KTOS) who called out the whole debate as being driven by \"a backwards and racist political mentality,\" but it was defended by Yilmaz Bora, the leader of the Association of the Ex-Servicemen of the Turkish Resistance Organisation, who was cited as saying \"it was not possible to live with the Greek Cypriots in a United Cyprus, because the mentality of the Greek Cypriots has not changed in 53 years.\"\n\nThere is a synagogue for the Jewish community in Northern Cyprus in Kyrenia.\n"}
{"id": "23731470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23731470", "title": "Goddess I", "text": "Goddess I\n\nGoddess I is the Schellhas-Zimmermann-Taube letter designation for one of the most important Maya deities: a youthful woman to whom considerable parts of the post-Classic codices are dedicated, and who equally figures in Classic Period scenes. Based on her representation in codical almanacs, she is considered to represent vital functions of the fertile woman, and to preside over eroticism, human procreation, and marriage. Her aged form is associated with weaving. Goddess I could, perhaps, be seen as a terrestrial counterpart to the Maya moon goddess. In important respects, she corresponds to Xochiquetzal among the Aztecs, a deity with no apparent connection to the moon.\n\nThe hieroglyphical name of the goddess consists of a female head characterized by a hair-like curl (prefixed or infixed). The curl is not unimportant, since it is usually assumed to be the sign of the earth (\"kab'[an]\") or the moon (Landa's \"u\"-sign), with the goddess being identified accordingly. However, the curl might, perhaps, better be viewed as the post-Classic rendition of the infix and hair curl characteristic of Classic glyphs for 'woman' (\"ixik\"). The head of goddess I is often preceded by the glyph for 'white' (\"sak\"). The figure of goddess I shows a restricted set of variable attributes, amongst which is also the coiled snake headband of goddess O. As a mantic designation, 'White Woman' contrasts with 'Red Woman', a name referring to the aged patroness of midwifery, Ixchel (the goddess O). In the codices, the main female functions have been distributed over the White Woman - the Red Woman.\n\nGoddess I is the subject of almanacs which take up several pages in the Post-Classic codices of Dresden (16-23) and Madrid (91-95). There, she is chiefly represented in the following ways:\n\nThe bird species have been argued to refer to the names of specific diseases mentioned in early-colonial medical treatises (especially the \"Ritual of the Bacabs\"). Goddess I thereby appears to function as a general mother of disease. \nThe deity (e.g., the rain god, the death god) or the symbol (e.g., 'abundance') contains a general prognostication.\nThe deity so held may contain a prediction relative to the child's development.\nThe combinations with a deity or an animal (vulture, armadillo, deer, dog) seem to refer to the prospects of marriage, in the Madrid codex symbolized by the reed mat on which the couples have been placed. The deity or the animal may be indicative of certain qualities of the male partner in marriage, with the female partner representing the constant element. In some cases - involving a young deity as well as the old, lecherous God N - the coupling has unmistakably erotic overtones.\nThis occurs only once, and implies the aged God L. The prognostication may conceivably refer to the sort of husband that can be expected to take and marry the woman, or to the deity's influence on the female partner in marriage.\n\nWith the exception of the disease-carrying birds, several depictions of the goddess in the almanacs have their counterparts in the Classic Period: Goddess I can be depicted with the maize child in a carrying-strap on her back; in amorous embrace with an aged and lecherous old man, probably God N; as part of the 'harem' of God L (Princeton vase); and in encounters, sometimes markedly erotic, with animals such as armadillo, deer, spider monkey, and stinging insects.\n\nThe combinations with animals are not well understood. They have been interpreted astronomically (on the assumption that goddess I is identical with the moon goddess), but could in principle also be viewed as metaphorical references to marriage; as mythological scenes; or as relating to animal fertility.\n\nAlthough in the codices and in Classic Period art, goddess I is not clearly identified with the Maya moon goddess (who can be recognized by her rabbit pet and the lunar crescent), her main functions seem largely to coincide with those of the Moon (excepting the Moon's strong association with water and rain). Mythologically, she has been compared to the underworldly wife of Hun-Hunahpu, Xquic, in the Quichean Popol Vuh, and to the wife of the deer-hunting hero of Q'eqchi' Sun and Moon myth, Po 'Moon'. Thompson has pointed out that in the Q'eqchi' myth - which is about the earthly life of a mountain deity's daughter before her final transformation into the Moon - the themes of eroticism, fertility, and marriage strongly come to the fore. In contemporary Maya religion generally, goddess I may possibly go under the cloak of the Virgin Mary, in the latter's various aspects and local manifestations, such as that of \"guardian and embracer of the maize\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56296038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56296038", "title": "Gregory W. Hayes", "text": "Gregory W. Hayes\n\nGregory W. Hayes (died December 2, 1906) was a prominent leader in the Baptist community of African Americans in Richmond, Virginia. He graduated from Oberlin College. In 1899 he was involved in a leadership struggle with Z.D. Lewis over issues of operations and autonomy of an educational institution. \n\nThe G. W. Hayes School of Arts and Sciences, a division of Virginia Seminary and College, was named in 1988 in honor and memory of Professor Gregory W. Hayes, the college's second President. Hayes intervened to provide Ota Benga, an Mbuti pygmy former slave who was exhibited at anthropological exhibitions, the opportunity to live and study at the seminary.\n\nRev. Hayes became president of the school in 1891 after a leadership struggle. He served until his death in 1906. His wife, Mary Rice Hayes Allen, was the daughter of a Confederate general and an African American mother. She served as the seminary's president after Hayes' death until 1908. She is the mother of author Carrie Allen McCray.\n\nAn annual Hayes Day celebration has been held at the seminary in his honor and a statue commemorates his life and leadership.\n"}
{"id": "23427012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23427012", "title": "Guru Nanak", "text": "Guru Nanak\n\nGuru Nanak (, , IAST: \"Gurū Nānak\") (29 November 1469 – 22 September 1539) was the founder of Sikhism and the first of the ten Sikh Gurus. His birth is celebrated worldwide as Guru Nanak Gurpurab on Kartik Pooranmashi, the full-moon day in the month of Katak, October–November.\n\nGuru Nanak travelled far and wide teaching people the message of one God who dwells in every one of His creations and constitutes the eternal Truth. He set up a unique spiritual, social, and political platform based on equality, fraternal love, goodness, and virtue.\n\nGuru Nanak's words are registered in the form of 974 poetic hymns in the holy text of Sikhism, the Guru Granth Sahib, with some of the major prayers being the Japji Sahib, the Asa di Var and the Sidh-Ghost. It is part of Sikh religious belief that the spirit of Guru Nanak's sanctity, divinity and religious authority descended upon each of the nine subsequent Gurus when the Guruship was devolved on to them.\n\nGuru Nanak was born on 29 November 1469 at Rāi Bhoi Kī Talvaṇḍī (present day Nankana Sahib, Punjab, Pakistan) near Lahore. His parents were Kalyan Chand Das Bedi, popularly shortened to Mehta Kalu, and Mata Tripta. His father was the local patwari (accountant) for crop revenue in the village of Talwandi. His parents were both Hindu Khatris and employed as merchants.\n\nHe had one sister, Bebe Nanaki, who was five years older than he was. In 1475 she married and moved to Sultanpur. Guru Nanak was attached to his sister and followed her to Sultanpur to live with her and her husband, Jai Ram. At the age of around 16 years, Nanak started working under Daulat Khan Lodi, employer of Nanaki's husband. This was a formative time for Nanak, as the Puratan (traditional) Janam Sakhi suggests, and in his numerous allusions to governmental structure in his hymns, most likely gained at this time.\n\nAccording to Sikh traditions, the birth and early years of Guru Nanak's life were marked with many events that demonstrated that Nanak had been marked by divine grace. Commentaries on his life give details of his blossoming awareness from a young age. At the age of five, Nanak is said to have voiced interest in divine subjects. At age seven, his father enrolled him at the village school as was the custom. Notable lore recounts that as a child Nanak astonished his teacher by describing the implicit symbolism of the first letter of the alphabet, resembling the mathematical version of one, as denoting the unity or oneness of God. Other childhood accounts refer to strange and miraculous events about Nanak, such as one witnessed by Rai Bular, in which the sleeping child's head was shaded from the harsh sunlight, in one account, by the stationary shadow of a tree or, in another, by a venomous cobra.\n\nOn 24 September 1487 Nanak married Mata Sulakkhani, daughter of Mūl Chand and Chando Rāṇī, in the town of Batala. The couple had two sons, Sri Chand (8 September 1494 – 13 January 1629) and Lakhmi Chand (12 February 1497 – 9 April 1555). Sri Chand received enlightenment from Guru Nanak's teachings and went on to become the founder of the Udasi sect.\n\nThe earliest biographical sources on Nanak's life recognised today are the \"Janamsākhīs\" (life accounts). Bhai Gurdas, a scribe of the Gurū Granth Sahib, also wrote about Nanak's life in his \"vārs\". Although these too were compiled some time after Nanak's time, they are less detailed than the Janamsākhīs. The Janamsākhīs recount in minute detail the circumstances of the birth of the guru.\n\nGyan-ratanavali is attributed to Bhai Mani Singh who wrote it with the express intention of correcting heretical accounts of Guru Nanak. Bhai Mani Singh was a disciple of Guru Gobind Singh who was approached by some Sikhs with a request that he should prepare an authentic account of Guru Nanak’s life.\n\nOne popular Janamsākhī was allegedly written by a close companion of the Guru, Bhai Bala. However, the writing style and language employed have left scholars, such as Max Arthur Macauliffe, certain that they were composed after his death. According to the scholars, there are good reasons to doubt the claim that the author was a close companion of Guru Nanak and accompanied him on many of his travels.\n\nNanak was a Guru (teacher), and founded Sikhism during the 15th century. The fundamental beliefs of Sikhism, articulated in the sacred scripture Guru Granth Sahib, include faith and meditation on the name of the one creator, unity of all humankind, engaging in selfless service, striving for social justice for the benefit and prosperity of all, and honest conduct and livelihood while living a householder's life.\n\nThe Guru Granth Sahib is worshipped as the Supreme Authority of Sikhism and is considered the eleventh and final guru of Sikhism. As the first guru of Sikhism, Guru Nanak contributed a total of 974 hymns to the book.\n\nNanak’s teachings can be found in the Sikh scripture Guru Granth Sahib, as a collection of verses recorded in Gurmukhi.\n\nThere are two competing theories on Guru Nanak's teachings. One, according to Cole and Sambhi, is based on hagiographical Janamsakhis, and states that Nanak's teachings and Sikhism were a revelation from God, and not a social protest movement nor any attempt to reconcile Hinduism and Islam in the 15th century. The other states, Nanak was a Guru. According to Singha, \"Sikhism does not subscribe to the theory of incarnation or the concept of prophethood. But it has a pivotal concept of Guru. He is not an incarnation of God, not even a prophet. He is an illumined soul.\"\n\nThe hagiographical \"Janamsakhis\" were not written by Nanak, but by later followers without regard for historical accuracy, and contain numerous legends and myths created to show respect for Nanak. The term revelation, clarify Cole and Sambhi, in Sikhism is not limited to the teachings of Nanak, they include all Sikh Gurus, as well as the words of past, present and future men and women, who possess divine knowledge intuitively through meditation. The Sikh revelations include the words of non-Sikh bhagats, some who lived and died before the birth of Nanak, and whose teachings are part of the Sikh scriptures. The Adi Granth and successive Sikh Gurus repeatedly emphasised, states Mandair, that Sikhism is \"not about hearing voices from God, but it is about changing the nature of the human mind, and anyone can achieve direct experience and spiritual perfection at any time\". Guru Nanak emphasised that all human beings can have direct access to God without rituals or priests.\n\nThe concept of man as elaborated by Guru Nanak, states Arvind-pal Singh Mandair, refines and negates the \"monotheistic concept of self/God\", and \"monotheism becomes almost redundant in the movement and crossings of love\". The goal of man, taught the Sikh Gurus, is to end all dualities of \"self and other, I and not-I\", attain the \"attendant balance of separation-fusion, self-other, action-inaction, attachment-detachment, in the course of daily life\".\n\nGuru Nanak, and other Sikh Gurus emphasised Bhakti, and taught that the spiritual life and secular householder life are intertwined. In Sikh worldview, the everyday world is part of the Infinite Reality, increased spiritual awareness leads to increased and vibrant participation in the everyday world. Guru Nanak, states Sonali Marwaha, described living an \"active, creative, and practical life\" of \"truthfulness, fidelity, self-control and purity\" as being higher than the metaphysical truth.\n\nThrough popular tradition, Nanak’s teaching is understood to be practised in three ways:\n\nGuru Nanak emphasised Nam Japna (or Naam Simran), that is repetition of God's name and attributes, as a means to feel God's presence.\n\nNanak was raised in a Hindu family and belonged to the Bhakti Sant tradition. Scholars state that in its origins, Guru Nanak and Sikhism were influenced by the \"nirguni\" (formless God) tradition of Bhakti movement in medieval India. However, Sikhism was not simply an extension of the Bhakti movement. Sikhism, for instance, disagreed with some views of Bhakti saints Kabir and Ravidas.\n\nThe roots of the Sikh tradition are, states Louis Fenech, perhaps in the Sant-tradition of India whose ideology grew to become the Bhakti tradition. Furthermore, adds Fenech, \"Indic mythology permeates the Sikh sacred canon, the \"Guru Granth Sahib\" and the secondary canon, the \"Dasam Granth\" and adds delicate nuance and substance to the sacred symbolic universe of the Sikhs of today and of their past ancestors\".\n\nGuru Nanak travelled extensively during his lifetime. Some modern accounts state that he visited Tibet, most of South Asia and Arabia starting in 1496, at age 27, when he left his family for a thirty-year period. These claims include Guru Nanak visiting the Mount Sumeru of Indian mythology, as well as Mecca, Baghdad, Achal Batala and Multan, in these places he debated religious ideas with competing groups. These stories became widely popular in the 19th and 20th century, and exist in many versions.\n\nThe hagiographic details is a subject of dispute, with modern scholarship questioning the details and authenticity of many claims. For example, Callewaert and Snell state that early Sikh texts do not contain these stories, and after these travel stories first appear in hagiographic accounts of Guru Nanak centuries after his death, they continue to become more sophisticated over time, with the late phase \"Puratan\" version describing four missionary journeys (\"udasis\"), which however differs from the \"Miharban\" version. Some of the stories about Guru Nanak's extensive travels first appear in the 19th-century versions of \"janam-sakhi\" in the Puratan version. Further, stories about Guru Nanak's travel to Baghdad is absent from even the early 19th-century \"Puratan\" version. These embellishments and insertion of new stories, according to Callewaert and Snell, closely parallel claims of miracles by Islamic \"pirs\" found in Sufi tazkiras of the same era, and these legends may have been written in a competition.\n\nAnother source of dispute has been the Baghdad stone inscription in a Turkish script, which some interpret saying \"Baba Nanak Fakir\" was there in 1511-1512, other interpret it stating 1521-1522 (and that he lived in the Middle East for 11 years away from his family), while others particularly Western scholars stating that the stone inscription is from the 19th century and the stone is not a reliable evidence that Guru Nanak visited Baghdad in early 16th century. Further, beyond the stone, no evidence or mention of Guru Nanak's journey in the Middle East has been found in any other Middle Eastern textual or epigraphical records. Claims have been asserted of additional inscriptions, but no one has been able to locate and verify them. The Baghdad inscription remains the basis of writing by Indian scholars that Guru Nanak journeyed in the Middle East, with some claiming he visited Jerusalem, Mecca, Vatican, Azerbaijan and Sudan.\n\nNovel claims about his travels, as well as claims such as Guru Nanak's body vanishing after his death, are also found in later versions and these are similar to the miracle stories in Sufi literature about their \"pirs\". Other direct and indirect borrowings in the Sikh \"janam-sakhis\" relating to legends around Guru Nanak's journeys are from Hindu epics and Puranas and Buddhist Jataka stories.\n\nGuru Nanak appointed Bhai Lehna as the successor Guru, renaming him as Guru Angad, meaning \"one’s very own\" or \"part of you\". Shortly after proclaiming Bhai Lehna as his successor, Guru Nanak died on 22 September 1539 in Kartarpur, at the age of 70.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5568397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5568397", "title": "Hindmarsh Island bridge controversy", "text": "Hindmarsh Island bridge controversy\n\nThe Hindmarsh Island bridge controversy was a 1990s Australian legal and political controversy that involved the clash of Indigenous Australian religious beliefs and property rights. A proposed bridge to Hindmarsh Island, near Goolwa, South Australia (intended to replace the existing cable ferry and service a proposed marina development) attracted opposition from many local residents, environmental groups and indigenous leaders. In 1994, a group of Ngarrindjeri women elders claimed the site was sacred to them for reasons that could not be revealed. The case attracted much controversy because the issue intersected with broader concerns about Indigenous rights in the Australian community at the time, and coincided with the Mabo and Wik High Court cases regarding Native Title.\n\n\"Secret women's business\", as the group's claims became known, became the subject of intense legal battles. Some Ngarrindjeri women came forward to dispute the veracity of the claims. The Hindmarsh Island Royal Commission found that \"secret women's business\" had been fabricated. Subsequently, the Howard Government passed the \"Hindmarsh Island Bridge Act (1997)\", which allowed construction to go ahead. The bridge was completed in March 2001.\n\nIn August 2001, a civil case in the Federal Court of Australia re-ignited the debate. In rejecting claims for damages by the developers, Justice John von Doussa stated that he was not satisfied that the claims of \"secret women's business\" had been fabricated, although never explicitly stating them to be true. The Ngarrindjeri and their supporters took the decision as a vindication, and many organisations subsequently apologised. Opinion remains divided over the issue to the present day.\n\nIn 1977, Adelaide developers Tom and Wendy Chapman, trading as Binalong Pty Ltd, purchased of land on Hindmarsh Island in the Murray River estuary and later received planning permission for their company to build a 560-berth marina, car parking, residential development, conference centre, golf course and associated buildings. Wendy Chapman was a former Lord Mayor of Adelaide from 1983 to 1985.\n\nWith the marina only partially completed, in 1988 the Chapmans applied for permission to increase the size of the project as the original project was found to be financially unviable. The Planning Assessment Commission rejected the proposal, stating that the development couldn't expand unless a bridge was built from Goolwa to Hindmarsh Island as the existing Cable ferry would not be able to handle the increased traffic. In October 1989, approval was granted for a bridge, to be financed by the Chapmans, subject to an Environmental Impact Study (EIS). The EIS (the Edmonds Report) was completed within two weeks and identified the need for an anthropological study. The Chapmans funded a study by Rod Lucas who reported in January 1990 that existing written records did not record mythological sites, but cautioned that consultation with Indigenous groups would be required.\n\nThe Ngarrindjeri are one of the 30–40 clan-groups (\"lakinyeri\") that inhabited South Australia at the time of white settlement. Originally numbering around 6,000 members they are the only tribe in Australia whose land lay within of a capital city to have survived as a distinct people as recognised in the 2002 \"Kungun Ngarrindjeri Yunnan\" Agreement.\n\nIn April 1990, the State Minister for Environment and Planning wrote to the Chapmans granting them planning permission for the bridge to Hindmarsh Island and the extensions to their marina. The estimated cost of the bridge was around $6 million which was considerably more than the estimated value of the marina once completed. The planning permission was subject to a number of conditions, including the requirements for consultation with \"relevant Aboriginal representative bodies\" such as Ngarrendjeri Elders, the Raukkan Community Council, the Ngarrendjeri Lands and Progress Association, and the Lower Murray Heritage Committee.\n\nThis was to become an issue in 1994 as the Chapmans had clearly not met these requirements. Although the Chapmans had done several environmental impact studies, submitted plans that included the bridge to the Raukkan Community Council and had also consulted with Henry Rankin, a senior Ngarrendjeri Elder, in November 1989 this was prior to the planning permission for the bridge being granted on condition of additional consultation. In the Federal Court hearing in 1994, Wendy Chapman gave evidence that the page of the letter setting out these additional consultation requirements was missing from the Minister's letter she had received (the same recommendations were also included in an assessment sent to the Chapmans by the Department of Environment and Planning). She also stated her belief that as no skeletal remains had been found, no further consultation was required.\n\nThe Hindmarsh Island marina was at this time losing money and the Chapmans were in financial difficulties due the failure of another marina project they had built at Wellington. They could not afford to construct the bridge themselves so they approached the State Government for assistance.\n\nBeneficial Finance, a subsidiary of the state owned State Bank of South Australia, had supplied the financing for the marina development. By 1990 it was obvious that the State Bank was having financial difficulties and The State Labor government led by Premier John Bannon was anxious to protect Beneficial’s large investment in the Chapman's projects. The government was also under pressure for a series of major projects it had promised that had never eventuated so the bridge project was also seen as likely to be the only major success Labor would be able to claim for the next election.\n\nThe State government made a deal with Chapmans. Binalong would pay up front for the bridge to be built. Then the State government would reimburse Binalong for half of the cost of construction, up to a limit of $3 million.\n\nIn September 1990 Beneficial Finance decided to withdraw funding and the Chapmans approached Partnership Pacific, a subsidiary of Westpac, to take over the financing. Partnership Pacific agreed but only with the condition that the State Government paid the entire cost of the bridge. A secret meeting was arranged between the Chapmans, Westpac and the government at which it was accepted that the government would pay the whole cost of the bridge while the Chapmans would pay back half at a later date, but only after Binalong had paid off all its debts to Westpac. Binalong owed so much money to the State Bank through Beneficial Finance that Bannon apparently had no choice but to prop the company up. The State Bank collapsed not long after with debts of $3 Billion.\n\nOn 22 November 1990, Premier Bannon wrote a personal letter to the Managing Director of Westpac, Stewart Fowler, guaranteeing government financing of the bridge and in February 1991, Cabinet approved the funding agreement as outlined in the Premier's letter. Initially the government had no liability beyond paying half the cost of the bridge. Unfortunately, Premier Bannon’s letter had created an unintended liability for the State government. Not only was the government liable for Wespac’s losses if it did not build the bridge but even if the bridge was built and Westpac suffered any losses from stages two, three and four of the marina project, the government was now also liable to cover those losses which could run to hundreds of millions of dollars.\n\nA deed was signed in March 1993 binding the government to this commitment. Public outrage at government funding of a project for the sole benefit of private developers, led South Australian Legislative Council member and leader of the Australian Democrats, Mike Elliott, to call for a Parliamentary inquiry into the bridge and the financial arrangements between the government and Westpac. One of its terms of reference dealt specifically with the propriety of the government's decision in conferring private benefits at taxpayers' expense. The inquiries findings criticised the financial arrangements between the government, the Chapmans and Wespac, and recommended that the government reconsider the bridge and examine whether the bridge could be replaced by a second ferry.\n\nIn early October, the Lower Murray Heritage Committee wrote to the Aboriginal Affairs Minister asking him to protect Aboriginal sites on Hindmarsh Island however, work on the bridge began on 27 October 1993 though it quickly ceased due to industrial action.\n\nLargely due to the financial disaster of the State Bank collapse leaving the state essentially bankrupt, Labor was routed in the December 1993 election and the Liberals came to power with Dean Brown as Premier. When in opposition the Liberals had campaigned against the Hindmarsh Island Bridge and stopping it was a campaign promise during the election. Further up the Murray, the local community in Berri was campaigning for a much-needed bridge to replace their ferry and the government had agreed to build it. Seeking a way out of the Hindmarsh Island contract, Premier Brown hired Samuel Jacobs QC, to carry out an investigation into the legal responsibilities of the contract.\n\nShortly before the 1993 elections the Labor government had instructed archaeologist, Dr Neil Draper, to survey Hindmarsh Island and the mainland foreshore for Aboriginal sites. Justice Jacobs, unaware of Draper’s survey, finished his report in early 1994, concluding there was no way out of building the bridge without significant financial liabilities. On 29 April 1994, Draper presented his report to the new Liberal government. The report mentioned that the area had spiritual significance to Aboriginal women, identified a number of significant sites and argued that they should be protected under the State Aboriginal Heritage Act. On 3 May the State Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Dr Michael Armitage, now used his powers under the act to authorise damage to the identified sites if required for the bridge to proceed. Work recommenced and a number of protestors were arrested. It has since been pointed out that Justice Jacobs and the government had missed an opportunity to cancel the bridge contract. They had overlooked that Aboriginal Heritage legislation overrides all contractual obligations.\n\nMany people, including a majority of the islands inhabitants, variously opposed the government funding of a project for the benefit of private developers, the urbanisation of Hindmarsh Island and/or the effects it would have on the natural environment had also voiced their opposition. Initiating legal action in April 1994 they applied to the Federal government for an order prohibiting construction.\n\nOn 12 May, shortly before construction began, at the request of the Ngarrindjeri, the Federal Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Robert Tickner issued an emergency declaration blocking work on the bridge, and then appointed a lawyer, Professor Cheryl Saunders OA, to report on the significant Aboriginal sites. Saunders consulted with a range of interested parties, including a group of Ngarrindjeri women who claimed Hindmarsh Island was sacred to them as a fertility site, and for other reasons that could not be publicly revealed. An anthropologist, Dr Dean Fergie, prepared an assessment of the women's claims, which was then submitted to Saunders. As a part of this process some of these cultural secrets were written down and sealed in two envelopes marked \"Confidential: to be read by women only\" and forwarded to Tickner with the assessment. On 10 July 1994, Tickner placed a 25-year ban on the bridge construction putting the marina in doubt and bringing the Chapmans close to bankruptcy.\n\nIn February 1995 the Chapmans initiated a legal challenge of the ban in the Federal Court. Although the Judge praised Saunders report and criticized the Chapman’s litigation, the Judge overturned the ban on a legal technicality. The media had heavily criticized the ban and focused on Tickner issuing it based on the contents of sealed envelopes that he had never read. In fact Saunders’ assessment had stressed that the contents were not needed to reach a decision, as there was enough evidence supporting their contents in the assessment and public domain. In fact, Tickner is on record in the February court case as stating that his decision was not based on the envelopes' contents.\n\nIn March, Shadow Minister for the Environment Ian McLachlan was forced to resign after tabling some of the secret documents in Parliament misrepresenting how he obtained them and falsely claiming they had not been marked \"Confidential\". The envelope had been delivered to McLachlan's office in error and despite being clearly marked \"Confidential: to be read by women only\" had been read, photocopied and circulated among both male and female staff.\n\nIn May 1995 the media and politicians aired the claims of five \"dissident\" Aboriginal women who stated that what had become known as \"secret women's business\" must have been \"fabricated\" by the \"proponents\" because they either had no knowledge of the secrets or did not believe them.\n\nThe Royal Commission identified at least twelve separate aspects to the claim of \"secret women's business\" during the course of its inquiry. This knowledge was claimed to be of great antiquity, and passed only to a small number of properly initiated women, hence the ignorance of prior anthropologists to the myth. The most prominent aspects of the claims are listed below:\n\nIn 1994, Binalong went into liquidation owing Partnership Pacific $18.5 million with Westpac taking possession of the marina as mortgagee. The marina was at this time valued at up to $1.35 million. Following protracted negotiations, in September 1997 Westpac sold the marina to Kebaro Pty Ltd, a family trust belonging to the Chapmans for $50,000 with a further $1.3 million to follow at a later date. A further assessment of the marina now revised its value to $4.5 million. As part of the transaction, the liquidator of Binalong agreed to assign Binalong's causes of action to Mr and Mrs Chapman who would then pay a percentage of any damages recovered in court to the liquidators. In regards to the financial losses the Chapmans believed had resulted from the heritage applications, the Chapmans claimed financial losses of $16.58 million based on the difference between what the Chapmans paid Westpac and what they claimed the completed marina would have sold for had the bridge been built prior to 1994. In 2001 this court action failed.\n\nIn June 1995, the Hindmarsh Island Royal Commission was called by the South Australian government. The proponent Ngarrindjeri women were sharply divided. Some believed nothing of the secrets could be revealed for any reason, while others argued that some cultural rules had to be broken in order to protect the area. 23 of the proponent Ngarrindjeri women withdrew from the Royal Commission, rejecting an inquiry into people's spiritual beliefs as unlawful. Those that did attend refused to testify and heckled from the gallery or were otherwise generally disruptive. The 12 dissident women (and one man) by contrast were well behaved.\n\nThe terms of reference for the Commission implied that the contents of the envelopes were central to the Ministers decision to implement the 25-year ban. The Commission sought clarification from Premier Brown who confirmed the contents were not central. However, the counsel for the dissidents continued to emphasize the importance of knowing what the contents stated.\n\nChief spokesperson for the dissident women, Dorothy Wilson testified to the Royal Commission how she first heard about the \"secret women's business\" at a meeting called by the Lower Murray Aboriginal Heritage Committee. She initially believed the story as Dr. Doreen Kartinyeri was in a position to have secrets passed to her by the female elders. Following the meeting the women went to the local Heritage Committee where the men were. One of the men later pointed to an aerial map of Hindmarsh Island hanging on the wall and commented that it looked like \"female privates\". As a map of the island along with the same claim was in the secret envelope, Wilson had second thoughts \"It just doesn’t add up to being secret women’s business if the men actually told us. If our old women didn’t know about it, well then why did the men tell us about it? I thought it must be a load of nonsense.\" The premise was that a man should not know what Hindmarsh Island looked like. Kartinyeri later responded that the man shouldn't have said that, because he was a man but that \"pointing at an aerial map that's been surveyed\" does not imply that the claim itself was fabricated.\n\nNone of the dissident women were able to take their claims of fabrication further than their own lack of knowledge of the beliefs. Several admitted that they had no knowledge of any Ngarrindjerri culture or traditions at all. Some admitted that it was not unreasonable for only a limited number of women to be privy to traditional secrets. One took the position that they saw no point in living in the past even if the claims were true. The women all identified themselves as Christians and it has been suggested some saw The Dreamtime as incompatible with their own beliefs, was a Pagan belief and as such, wrong.\n\nIt had been shown before the Commission that no anthropological work regarding the Ngarrindjeri, specifically Ronald Berndt’s authoritative book \"A World That Was,\" mentioned the existence of a secret life for Ngarrindjeri women. Cultural geographer Dr Jane Jacobs argued that these publications needed to be seen as a product of their times. In the case of Berndt, we are assuming a male anthropologist walking into an Aboriginal community in the 1940s got the truth. His enquiries were likely not directed towards secrets held by female members of the tribe. Connie Roberts, who was born in 1919 and was one of the elders who had passed the \"women’s business\" on to Doreen Kartinyeri, was asked about talking about such things with an anthropologist: \"You can't. You're not supposed to talk about things like that. My parents told me, only the old people used to tell certain people.\"\n\nIn December, without knowing what was in the envelopes, the Royal Commission found that the idea of Hindmarsh Island as being significant to the Ngarrindjerri women had come about at the meeting of the Lower Murray Aboriginal Heritage Committee. Despite evidence that mention of the island as a fertility site had been mentioned in 1967, predating the meeting, the Royal Commission found that the secret women's business was a fabrication and hoax.\n\nSpecifically, the Royal Commission based its finding on five points. The way the secrets were revealed, at the last minute then progressively was suspicious. The lack of mention of the secrets in the anthropological record. The Seven Sisters Dreaming story belonged to the western Aborigines and was never part of the Ngarrindjerri Dreaming. The testimony given by dissidents Dorothy Wilson and Doug Milera supported fabrication and lastly, that the secret women's business was irrational because the barrages were a more intrusive barrier than a bridge could be.\n\nThe first Section 10 application brought by the so-called \"proponent women\" in 1994 under the \"Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (CTH)\" succeeded. On the basis of the Report of Law Professor Cheryl Saunders (1994), Minister Robert Tickner declared a 25-year ban on the building of a bridge. That ban was overturned on a technicality. The veracity of the proponent's women story was not at issue. They had told their story and been believed but the Minister had erred in the manner in which he had dealt with the material.\n\nThe Ngarrindjeri brought another application under the federal heritage act in 1995-6. This time Senator Rosemary Crowley appointed a woman judge, Jane Mathews, to be the reporter and thus the proponent women would be able to include knowledge restricted to women without violating their cultural rules. However, the Mathews Report was not able to run its full course. in 1996 the Howard Liberal government came to power and Minister Herron refused to appoint a woman to receive the report. Then, following the Federal Court judgment in \"Minister for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Affairs v Western Australia\", Mathews (1996: 43–6) made it plain that the women could not rely on material that was not being made available to the other parties most closely affected by the application. Rather than have their stories read by a male minister and made available to other parties, the women withdrew their restricted material. They chose not to violate their religious law that women’s knowledge was for women’s eyes only. Although this knowledge was missing, the Mathews Report of June 1996 nonetheless acknowledges that the area of the proposed bridge was of significance.\n\nThe dissident Ngarrindjeri women sought a declaration from the High Court that the nomination of Justice Mathews as the reporter was incompatible with her commission as a judge of the Federal Court of Australia. On 6 September 1996, the majority of the court agreed that the appointment of Justice Mathews was invalid.\n\nAfter John Howard's Coalition Government of Australia came to power in 1996, it legislated to allow the bridge to proceed. The Ngarrindjeri challenged the legislation in the High Court on the basis that it was discriminatory to declare that the Heritage Protection Act applied to sites everywhere but on Hindmarsh Island, and that such discrimination – essentially on the basis of race – had been disallowed since the Commonwealth was granted the power to make laws with respect to the \"Aboriginal race\" as a result of the 1967 Referendum. The High Court decided, controversially, in \"Kartinyeri v Commonwealth\" that the amended s.51(xxvi) of the Constitution did not restrict the Commonwealth parliament to making laws for the \"benefit\" of the \"Aboriginal race\", and could in fact enact laws to the \"detriment\" of any particular race. This decision effectively meant that those people who had believed that they were casting a vote \"against\" the discrimination of Indigenous people in 1967 had in fact merely allowed the Commonwealth to participate in the discrimination against Indigenous people which had been practised by the States throughout their history. Racial discrimination has been outlawed by the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth), but the Hindmarsh Island Bridge Act of 1997 expressly removed the Hindmarsh Island area from the purview of the Racial Discrimination Act.\n\nJustice John von Doussa of the Federal Court heard from all parties to the dispute in the course of the action brought by the Chapmans. In the summary of his Reasons for Decision, von Doussa stated\n\n5. This action seeks damages for losses allegedly suffered by Binalong from five respondents. Mr Tickner is sued as the former Minister. Professor Cheryl Saunders is sued as the person nominated by Mr Tickner under the Australian Heritage Protection Act to receive representations from interested members of the public and to prepare the report required by the Act concerning the application for protection. Luminis Pty Ltd (Luminis) and Dr Deane Fergie are sued in respect of their provision of consultancy services to the ALRM including the preparation of a report containing an anthropological evaluation of the significance of secret women's knowledge within Aboriginal tradition to the area where the bridge was to be constructed. The last respondent is the Commonwealth of Australia which is sued for compensation on the basis that the declaration under the Heritage Protection Act resulted in the acquisition of property belonging to Binalong.\nVon Doussa found for the respondents. His findings took issue with those of the Royal Commission of 1996 finding that the main bases for the Royal Commission conclusion were not established. In particular, the late emergence of the knowledge did not provide proof of fabrication and is expected in the case of genuine sacred information, lack of recording in the literature was not inconsistent with the material, that it was inappropriate to assert that a particular spiritual belief was irrational, Wilson's testimony was not reliable and Mileras was a personal belief and not evidence of fabrication. Most significantly, the various accounts of the Seven Sisters story given were consistent. He wrote:\n12. ... the evidence received by the Court on this topic is significantly different to that which was before the Royal Commission. Upon the evidence before this Court I am not satisfied that the restricted women's knowledge was fabricated or that it was not part of genuine Aboriginal tradition.\n\nOne of the two key independent expert witnesses from the South Australian Museum, Philip Clark, was found by the Federal Court at [373] to have erred in terms of professional objectivity before the Royal Commission when it was discovered that he had been secretly helping the lawyers for the \"dissident\" Ngarrindjerri women. The court found against the developers and dismissed the claims of fabrication.\n\nDevelopers Tom and Wendy Chapman and their son Andrew took defamation action against conservation groups, academics, politicians, media operators, printers and individuals who had spoken out against the Bridge. The Chapmans received court judgements of around $850,000 in their favour. The bulk of the damages related to claims by the defendants that the Chapmans had used SLAPP accusations to silence them.\n\nDuring the defamation case the defendants relied heavily on the defence of \"fair comment upon a matter of public interest\" and the \"Lange Defence\" ( – the constitutional right to freedom of speech on political matters). However the court found that these defences did not apply because the defendants were motivated by malice which had been proven by the Defendants, being engaged in a \"campaign\" to stop the bridge, and the \"targeting\" of the Chapmans. The judgement was of concern to environmental activists because any form of direct action such as non-violent picketing, boycotting, or attempts to coerce changes of policy or behaviour, while not illegal, could be imputed as \"malice\" in any resulting defamation claim.\n\nAs a result of the Chapman defamation actions, the Environmental Defenders Office has called for the introduction of a \"Protection of Public Participation Act\" for South Australia. Based on North American legislation, the proposed Act would ensure that those engaged in non-violent public participation would be protected from threats or suits that infringe free speech.\n\nIn early 2002, Peter Sutton, a former head of Anthropology of the South Australian Museum, who had been unable to take a position on the claims, stated that additional evidence discovered since the von Doussa judgement had changed his view. \"I still allow that aspects of these beliefs may have been embellished or given greater weight than before ... but the patterns and matches with earlier materials on some strands makes the overall fabrication theory insupportable.\"\n\nIn September 2002, redevelopment of the Goolwa wharf, which lay adjacent the Hindmarsh Island bridge, unearthed the remains of an Aboriginal woman and child. The site had been claimed to have been a burial ground by the proponent Ngarrindjeri women during the Royal Commission. However, the Alexandrina Council decided that as the wharf was South Australia's first inland port, colonial history should take preference over Ngarrindjeri interests and construction went ahead. Legal action was contemplated but after negotiations, the Alexandrina Council formally apologised to the Ngarrindjeri and entered into a Kungun Ngarrindjeri Yunnan (\"Listen to Ngarrindjeri Speaking\") agreement where the Council acknowledged Ngarrindjeri rights as the traditional owners of the country and their existence as an identifiable group of people with their own laws, customs, beliefs and traditions which must be taken into consideration for any developments within the council area where the Ngarrindjeri may have rights, interests or obligations.\n\nOn 7 July 2010, in a ceremony at the foot of the bridge, the Government of South Australia endorsed the finding that \"secret women's business\" was genuine. Ngarrindjeri elders then led a symbolic walk across the bridge. Elders now believe it is acceptable for Ngarrindjeri people to use the bridge to gain access to their land and waters, but culturally and morally still reject the bridge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41457435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41457435", "title": "Holy Family Catholic Church (Srinagar)", "text": "Holy Family Catholic Church (Srinagar)\n\nHoly Family Catholic Church is a Roman Catholic church located at Maulana Azad Road, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir, India. It was established in 1896 by Msgr. Winkley MHM. Before the Curia moved to Jammu on 23 December 1986, the parish served as a cathedral when the Curia was in Srinagar. Holy Family Catholic Church and All Saints Protestant Church are the two main churches for the minority Christian community in the city.\n\nThe church was set on fire on 7 June 1967 by protestors demonstrating against the Arab-Israeli war. During the arson, the belfry was destroyed. The church was rebuilt, and in 2017 a new church bell, which was donated by a Kashmiri Indian Christian family and made in the Indian city of Moradabad, was installed at Holy Family Catholic Church. This occurred in an interfaith service, in which Christian, Muslim, Hindu and Sikh clergymen assembled “to jointly ring the new bell for the first time in the past 50 years”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7656323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7656323", "title": "House vs. God", "text": "House vs. God\n\n\"House vs. God\" is the nineteenth episode of the second season of \"House\", which premiered on the Fox network on April 25, 2006.\n\nBoyd, a young faith healer, is giving a service in a church and \"heals\" a woman, allowing her to walk. However, when Boyd is leading the congregation in song, he has spasms and collapses.\n\nWhen House shows up at work, Wilson approaches him and voices his displeasure of not being invited to House's weekly poker game. Meanwhile, Cameron and Foreman are administering tests when Boyd claims to talk to God about Cameron's feud with Foreman. Cameron and Foreman are shocked, but House is skeptical of every claim of divinity. The tests show low sodium and diluted urine. However, when House goes to talk to Boyd, he notices that he has been drinking water from a previously opened bottle, refilled several times an hour.\n\nHouse meets with Wilson and discusses his patient while Wilson is meeting with a cancer patient named Grace Palmieri. However, Boyd suddenly wakes up and starts wandering the halls, singing \"Go Tell It on the Mountain.\" Boyd sees Palmieri, senses that she is sick, and lays his hands on her, performing a \"healing.\" Palmieri is shocked, but Chase catches up with Boyd and takes him back to his room. House and his team are discussing Boyd's symptoms when Wilson barges in and tells the group that Palmieri feels better than before, and House suspects that Boyd is talking to Palmieri.\n\nHouse notices an abnormal growth called Tuberous Sclerosis, and claims that it is what is causing all of Boyd's symptoms. Boyd consents to the tubular sclerosis tests after talking to Wilson. Boyd, who seems to have a strange omniscient mind, convinces House to invite Wilson to his poker game. Wilson visits House at home and informs him that Palmieri's tumor has actually shrunk.\n\nHouse orders Chase to search Palmieri's house while House, Wilson, and some unnamed people are playing poker. Chase finds clothes that would suggest that Palmieri has a boyfriend, and gets very concerned after he hears noises outside the door. Via phone, House assures Chase that the boyfriend will not come home, while glaring at Wilson across the poker table. House reasoned that Boyd must have learned of the poker game from Palmieri, and Palmieri from Wilson. House then accuses Wilson of having slept with Palmieri and moved in with her. Wilson, after demanding House tell the rest of the poker party that his name is not Wilson, storms out. They have a short, angry conversation outside.\n\nBack at the hospital, Boyd begins to run a fever. House concludes that the Tuberous Sclerosis cannot be causing this, and that a lumbar puncture is needed. However, Boyd refuses any more of \"man's medicine\", preferring to leave his life \"in God's hands.\" House believes that Boyd has a herpes virus that was acquired through sex, and transmitted to Palmieri when he touched her. Boyd refuses to strip to reveal a rash on his lower back until his father, putting faith in science where \"teenage boys\" are concerned, tells him to do so. The rash is discovered, confirming the scenario that the herpes virus attacked Palmieri's tumor, making it go into temporary remission.\n\n"}
{"id": "12605785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12605785", "title": "Jožef Meneder", "text": "Jožef Meneder\n\nJožef Meneder (, ; 1974 – 3 June 1993) was Serbian-FR Yugoslavian mass murderer of Hungarian origin. On 3 June 1993, while serving as a private in the Army of FR Yugoslavia in the city of Vranje, Meneder opened fire with an automatic rifle, killing seven and wounding four fellow soldiers, before taking his own life.\n\nMeneder was kept in confinement of the military barracks of the South Morava brigade because of a barracks brawl. On 3 June 1993, just after the midnight, he managed to escape the cell, attacking the guard with an ax. He took an automatic rifle from the injured guard and opened a fire on the group of sleeping soldiers. He killed six men on the spot (one staff sergeant and five privates). One more later died as a result of their wounds. After that, he committed suicide. The military police investigation found on his left arm a tattoo with a date \"3 June 1993\" and Satanic symbols in his home. It was discovered that he was a member of a Satanist religious cult called \"Loša vera\" (Serbian for \"Bad religion\").\n\n"}
{"id": "36061820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36061820", "title": "Kulullû", "text": "Kulullû\n\nKulullû, inscribed ku-lú-u-lu, \"Fish-Man\", an ancient Mesopotamian mythical monster possibly inherited by Marduk from his father Ea. In later Assyrian mythology he was associated with \"kuliltu\", \"Fish-Woman\", and statues of them were apparently located in the Nabû temple in Nimrud, ancient Kalhu, as referenced on a contemporary administrative text. \n\nHe had the head, arms and torso of a human and the lower body and tail of a fish and was portrayed in sculptures found in palaces and on kudurrus. With a bitumen smeared clay figurine, he seems to have found special purpose attracting prosperity and divine benevolence to households, as his icon was inscribed \"ri-da hi-ṣib\" KUR\"-i er-ba taš-mu u ma-ga-ru\", \"come down abundance of the mountain, enter intercession and compliance\".\n\nHe appears in Mesopotamian iconography from the Old Babylonian period onward. The Agum-Kakrime Inscription places his apotropaic icon on the gate of the \"ká-su-lim-ma\", the chamber of Marduk and his divine consort Zarpanītu. He was one of the eleven monstrous spawn of Tiāmat in the Epic of Creation, Enûma Eliš. He is one of the demons listed in tablet VIII of the Šurpu incantation series, the ritual to counter a curse of unknown origin. He also features in a hymn to Marduk and the gods of the Esagila.\n\nHis depiction in Assyrian reliefs is limited to a marine scene in Sargon II's palace at Khorsabad, ancient Dur-Šarru-kên, a small relief at Tell Halaf and on an ornamental brass ring found at Har Sena'im, an Ituraean cult site on the southern slopes of Mount Hermon.\n"}
{"id": "36784000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36784000", "title": "Limmud International", "text": "Limmud International\n\nLimmud International, a section of the Limmud organisation between 2006 and 2016, is a volunteer-led Jewish international organisation, based in London. It was initially chaired by Andrew Gilbert, then by Helena Miller and Uri Berkowitz, by David Hoffman and by David Bilchitz.. At the end of 2016, Limmud ceased branding Limmud International as a separate project. \n\nLimmud (from the Hebrew word meaning \"to learn\") is a British-Jewish educational charity which produces a large annual winter conference at the Birmingham Hilton Metropole and several other events around the year in the UK on the theme of Jewish learning. Limmud events are organised by volunteers who, as \"volunticipants\", also take part as equals in the conference. Limmud's largest group of volunteers are in their 20s and 30s.\n\nThe Limmud model, first developed in the UK, has now spread to many other countries. Over eighty communities in 43 countries on six continents have active Limmud groups, including, in 2016 for the first time, Bogota, Helsinki, Michigan and Perth. There are 18 Limmud communities in North America and ten in Israel.\n\nLimmud International supports networks of Limmud volunteers in establishing and developing Limmud communities overseas. It provides training, mentoring and support for Limmud groups, and offers a forum for the sharing of ideas and best practices.\n\nLimmud arrived in New York in 2005. Limmud events have also been held in Los Angeles, Colorado and Atlanta (2008), Philadelphia (2009), New Orleans, Chicago and Boston (2010), Miami (2014), Arizona (2015), Michigan (2016) and in Canada Ottawa (2013), Toronto (2004), Vancouver (2014), Winnipeg (2013) and Montreal. There are also a number of Russian language Limmud groups operating in North America under the Limmud FSU Umbrella- Limmud FSU New York started in 2009, Limmud FSU Canada in 2014 and Limmud FSU West Coast in 2016.\n\nAfter years of planning by local volunteers, Limmud Toronto was first held on 21 November 2004 at York University. Over 400 participants enjoyed close to 50 sessions, including a Young Limmud programme for children aged 5 to 12. Three years later on 2 December 2007, Limmud Toronto was held at the University of Toronto. Despite coinciding with the first major snowfall of the year, the conference drew nearly 500 participants. Limmud Toronto had its third conference, again at the University of Toronto, on 15 February 2009. After a hiatus, Limmud returned to Toronto in 2015. As of 2016, it is an annual event; the 2016 event was held at St. Andrew's Club and Conference Centre on March 6, and drew over 600 participants to nearly 80 sessions.\n\nThere are now Limmud groups in Buenos Aires, Bogota, Caracas, Costa Rica, Mar del Plata, Mexico, Peru Uruguay.\n\nLimmud's first event in China, planned by members of the Beijing and Shanghai Jewish communities, was held in 2012.\n\nLimmud events have been held in Australia (Canberra, Sydney, Melbourne and Perth), China (Beijing, Hong Kong and Shanghai), India and New Zealand.\n\nA delegation from Sydney, Australia came to Limmud's conference in 1996. This led to a Limmud Oz group being formed which launched its first activity in 1999 in Sydney. Later they went into an alternative years format with a biennial gathering in Melbourne. Through a joint venture with Partnership 2000 and Keren Hayesod Australia they have been the impetus for the launch in 2009 of the Limmud Arava programme which replicates the UK relationship with the Northern Galil.\n\nIn June 2012, Limmud Oz announced that the following pro-Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions groups would not be allowed to participate: \"Vivienne Porzsolt, a spokeswoman for Jews Against the Occupation, who was detained in Israel last year en route to the flotilla to Gaza; Avigail Abarbanel, the editor of Beyond Tribal Loyalties, who renounced her Israeli citizenship in 2001; and Peter Slezak, a co-founder of the far-left advocacy group Independent Australian Jewish Voices.\" In addition, they are allowing \"the president of the Australian Palestinian Advocacy Network, a representative of the Islamic Council of Victoria and a Palestinian academic.\"\n\nLimmud in the Galil started through the connection between the British Jewish community and its Partnership 2000 community in the Northern Galil. The first conference was held in 2001. Limmud FSU (for Russian speakers) held its first conference in Ashkelon in 2007, followed by conferences in Jerusalem starting in 2008. Limmud Arava, commencing in 2009, was based on the Galil P2k model and came from the Australian P2k link. Limmud Negev and Limmud Modiin, starting in 2009 and 2010, have been developed in conjunction with Melitz and the local communities.\n\nLimmud Modiin held its first event in June 2010. Limmud Jerusalem held an event on 10 May 2012.\n\nAustria: Limmud Wien is an annual and growing tradition in Austria.\n\nBelgium: In Belgium, an annual Conference called HowDoYouJew? has run since 2014, which attracts 600+ participants.\n\nFrance: Limmud France (Limoud) has held an annual gathering in Paris each November and smaller day events in Lyon and in Paris.\n\nFinland: In 2016, Limud Helsinki was held for the first time.\n\nGermany: Sophie Mahlo, Toby Axelrod and others have organised annual multi-day Limmud festivals since 2008 near Berlin, and they are now helping local teams run one-day events in other cities, including Munich, Cologne/NRW and Frankfurt.\n\nItaly: Limmud Italia has been held in Florence since 2014 and continues to grow in size year after year.\n\nNetherlands: There had been growing numbers coming from the Netherlands to the Limmud conference in the UK such that in 1998 they decided to have a day event in Amsterdam. This was run with the help of the Jewish Welfare Board and was hosted for a number of years. Since 2007 it has been run strictly as a volunteer-run event. In 2010, Limmoed NL ran from Sunday evening to Monday during a holiday-weekend.\n\nSpain:Limud Barcelona held its first event in 2014 organised by a team of over 20 volunteers with nearly 200 participants.\n\nSweden: Educators from the Hillel school in Stockholm have been coming since the 1980s to Limmud. Rabbi Morton Narrowe, then Chief Rabbi of Stockholm, led a larger group in the early 1990s. In 1994 the community dovetailed a tour with Debbie Friedman and the Kelmans with Limmud in the UK. However it was not until 2008 that Limmud Stockholm launched its first activity.\n\nIn Lund, a University town in Southern Sweden, a Limmud Lund launched its first activity in March 2012 (\"LundaLimmud\"). This evolved into Oresundslimmud, which also included the greater region of Copenhagen and Malmo.\n\nSwitzerland: As they decided to pay presenters, they ran a Limmud inspired activity called Yom Iyun in Basle and in more recent years in Zurich.\n\nLimmud FSU was created in 2006 by Chaim Chesler and Sandra Cahn. They have co-ordinated a cadre of volunteers who have created major Limmud activities for young Russians in several cities including gatherings in Moscow (2005 & 2010), Ukraine (2007, 2009 & 2010), Israel (2007 & 2010), Birobidzhan (2009), New York (2009 & 2010), and New Jersey (2012 & 2013).\n\nIn 2002 Andres Spokoiny, then JDC Baltics Director, who had been to Limmud as a youth worker in 1992, organised a Limmud in the Baltics conference in Vilnius, which and gathered over 1000 people from a Jewish community in the Baltic states( Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) of less than 20,000.\n\nThere are now Limmud groups in Hungary, Romania, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania (Bucharest, Timișoara & Iași), former Yugoslavia (Serbia/Croatia/Macedonia), Russia (Moscow, St Petersburg, Kazan, Birobdijan) and Ukraine (Yalta, Lviv and Odessa).\n\nIn 2012 more than 400 young Jews from Moldova and the southern region of Ukraine came together in the city of Chisinau, for the first Limmud FSU (former Soviet Union) conference in Moldova.\n\nLimmud started in Turkey in 2005 with the introduction of the project by Lina Filiba from the Turkish Jewish community and with the leadership of Gina Alkash and Tony Hananel working together with an active volunteer steering committee as well as a group of young adult volunteers from the Jewish community in Istanbul. Regularly attracting over 1100 people to their activities, Limmud Turkey takes place once a year in autumn.\n\nLimmud events have been held in South Africa (Johannesburg, Cape Town & Durban).\n\n"}
{"id": "36952136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36952136", "title": "List of Aztec gods and supernatural beings", "text": "List of Aztec gods and supernatural beings\n\nThis is a list of deities from the Aztec culture, its religion and mythology. Many of these deities are sourced from the Florentine Codex and another Codex and informants.\nPatron of midwives. Also known as Coaciuatl (Cihuacoatl), serpent woman, Quauhciuatl, eagle woman, Yoaciuatl, warrior woman, and Tzitziminciuatl, devil woman. (Individual honorary classes for women)\n- Amhimitl is Mixcoatls harpoon (or dart) just like Xiuhcoatl is Huitzilopochtli's weapon.\n\n(Blue Tezcatlipoca)\n----\ntrades and spring, the lord of the East.\n"}
{"id": "19215748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19215748", "title": "List of Coptic Orthodox churches in Australia", "text": "List of Coptic Orthodox churches in Australia\n\nThe hierarch of this diocese is Bishop Anba Suriel P.hD., Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Melbourne, Victoria, Tasmania, ACT, South Australia, Western Australia, New Zealand and All Oceania.\n\nThe following is a list of the churches under the diocese and the priests that serve in each church:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe monastery is situated on of land. It is the first Coptic monastery to be established in Australia. The monastery is currently under the direct jurisdiction of Bishop Suriel, Bishop of the Diocese of Melbourne and affiliated regions. The abbot of the monastery is the bishop of the diocese. There are a total of two monks who live and worship in the monastery:\n\nWhose hierarch is Anba Daniel, Bishop of the Holy Diocese of Sydney, New South Wales, Queensland, Northern Territory, Thailand, Singapore, and all East Asia. The following is a list of the churches under the diocese and the priests serving in each church:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe monastery is situated on a land of approximately . \nBishop Daniel was ordained Abbot of the Monastery of St Shenouda the Archimandrite, Sydney on 7 June 2009.\n\n, six monks and one novice live and worship in the monastery:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47308528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47308528", "title": "List of Doctor Who Christmas and New Year's specials", "text": "List of Doctor Who Christmas and New Year's specials\n\n\"Doctor Who\" is a British science fiction television programme produced by the BBC. The show has been a large influence in the media since its inception in 1963. Along with the regular series, special Christmas episodes were also broadcast every year between 2005, the year of the programme's revival, and 2017. \"Twice Upon a Time\" (2017) marked the final special episode created for Christmas, after the traditional special episode is set to be moved to New Year's Day in 2019.\n\nDuring the first run of the programme (1963 to 1989), while not a Christmas special, one episode aired on Christmas Day: \"The Feast of Steven\", the seventh episode of the twelve-part serial \"The Daleks' Master Plan\", which aired on 25 December 1965. The episode, currently missing from the BBC archive, was a comic interlude in the style of a pantomime, in the middle of an otherwise epic adventure. In its final scene the Doctor and his companions celebrated Christmas with a toast; the episode ended with the Doctor (William Hartnell) turning to camera (breaking the fourth wall) and saying, \"Incidentally, a happy Christmas to all of you at home.\"\n\nAlso while not dedicated New Year's specials, three episodes aired on New Year Day during the first run of the programme: \"Volcano\", the eighth episode of the twelve-part serial \"The Daleks' Master Plan\", the first episode of the four-part serial \"Day of the Daleks\", and the first episode of the four-part serial \"The Face of Evil\", each of which aired on New Year's Day in 1966, 1972 and 1977 respectively.\n\nThe Christmas specials between \"The Christmas Invasion\" and \"Last Christmas\", inclusive, were released as a DVD and Blu-ray boxset titled \"Doctor Who – The 10 Christmas Specials\" on 19 October 2015.\n"}
{"id": "20517024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20517024", "title": "List of atheists (surnames L to M)", "text": "List of atheists (surnames L to M)\n\nAtheists with surnames starting L to M, sortable by the field for which they are mainly known and nationality.\n"}
{"id": "60842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60842", "title": "Lists of Bible pericopes", "text": "Lists of Bible pericopes\n\nA list of Bible stories is a list usually taken as referring to narratives or pericopes of the Bible. It may include one or more of the following lists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22237129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22237129", "title": "Luz (bone)", "text": "Luz (bone)\n\nThe word luz in Hebrew (Hebrew: 'לוז') means nut or almond. Because of this it became associated with the small bone at the top of the spinal column (the first cervical vertebra, C1 or the Atlas) or the coccyx, the small bone at the base of the spinal column, depending on the tradition.\n\nJewish traditions teach that this is the bone from which the body will be rebuilt at the time of resurrection, and share the idea that this bone does not decay. \nThere is an aggadah (legend) in the midrash that the Roman Emperor Hadrian asked how man would be revived in the world to come, and Rabbi Joshua Ben Hananiah replied that it would be \"From Luz, in the back-bone.\" \"Prove this to me,\" said Hadrian. Then the Rabbi took Luz, a small bone of the spine, and immersed it in water, but it was not softened; he put it into the fire, but it was not consumed; he put it into a mill, but it could not be pounded; he placed it upon an anvil and struck it with a hammer, but the anvil split and the hammer was broken. (Ecclesiastes Rabbah xii / Genesis Rabbah xviii).\n\nThe luz bone narrative can be linked directly to the human-divine encounter in Ezekiel ch. 37 which alludes to the time of the return of the Jewish People to their land after a long exile. The valley of dry bones, that is, the exile or in a metaphorical sense, human constituent, encounters the immortal spirit of God in Eretz Israel, the land of the living, in contrast to this valley.\n\n"}
{"id": "4748302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4748302", "title": "Marcus Ulpius Traianus the Elder", "text": "Marcus Ulpius Traianus the Elder\n\nMarcus Ulpius Traianus Maior (c. 29 AD – before 98 AD; \"Latin\": \"Maior\", \"the elder\") was a Roman senator who lived in the 1st century. He was father to the Roman Emperor Trajan.\n\nTraianus belonged to the \"gens Ulpia\", originating from the Umbrian City of Tuder, and was born and raised in the city of Italica (modern Santiponce, near Seville, Spain) in the Roman Province of Hispania Baetica. The Ulpii lived there from 206 BC, when the town was founded by Publius Cornelius Scipio, resettling wounded and invalid veterans of the wars against Carthage. The Ulpii, like the Aelii and the Traii belonged to the leading Hispano-Roman families of the city. From the latter family came a branch of the ancestors of Traianus, which intermarried with the Ulpii, originating the \"cognomen\" Traianus. Since the father of Traianus joined the ranks of the Patricians in Rome, it is very likely that his grandfather had already belonged to the Roman Senate. His mother's origin is unknown. His sister Ulpia would be the mother of praetor Publius Aelius Hadrianus Afer (father of the Emperor Hadrian). Traianus married a Roman noblewoman called Marcia. She was the elder sister of Marcia Furnilla, the second wife of future Emperor Titus, and consequently was in a position to help the career of her husband. They had two children, a daughter called Ulpia Marciana and a son, the future Roman Emperor Trajan. He was the maternal grandfather to Salonina Matidia; a maternal uncle to praetor Publius Aelius Hadrianus Afer and a paternal great-uncle to Hadrian.\n\nTraianus was possibly a senator by the reign of Claudius. Before 67 AD, Traianus might have commanded a legion under the Roman General Gnaeus Domitius Corbulo. Under Vespasian (who was the Roman Governor of Judea), Traianus commanded the \"Legio X \"Fretensis\"\" during the First Jewish–Roman War between 67-68 AD. During this time he came into favour with the future emperor.\n\nAs a result of his military successes, Vespasian awarded Traianus the governorship of an unknown Roman province and a suffect consulship. Paul Gallivan dated M. Ulpius Traianus the Elder to 70 based on his arrangement of the fragments of tablet E of the \"Fasti Ostienses\"; however, subsequent recovery of fragments allowed Ladislav Vidman to date Ulpius Traianus' tenure to September–October 72. He was appointed governor of Cappadocia-Galatia (70/71 AD). He then served as governor of Syria in 73/74 AD, followed by a term as proconsul of Roman Asia in 79/80 AD. At an unspecified time he served as Governor of Hispania Baetica. During his time in Syria, Traianus prevented a Parthian invasion.\n\nTraianus lived out his final years in honor and distinction. Indirect evidence suggests that he may have died before his son became emperor in 98 AD. Around 100 AD his son Trajan founded a colony in North Africa. This colony became a town and was called \"Colonia Marciana Ulpia Traiana Thamugadi\" (modern Timgad, Algeria). His son named this town in honour of him, his late wife and his daughter. The colony’s name is also a tribute to his sister and his paternal ancestors. In 113 AD, Traianus was deified by his son, and his titulature reads \"divus Traianus pater\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4085811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4085811", "title": "Nadwi", "text": "Nadwi\n\nNadwi is title held by Islamic scholars who attended Nadwat Alulama' (ندوة العلماء). It may refer to one of the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "25341930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25341930", "title": "Nagare-zukuri", "text": "Nagare-zukuri\n\nThe or is a traditional Shinto shrine architectural style characterized by a very asymmetrical gabled roof () projecting outwards on one of the non-gabled sides, above the main entrance, to form a portico (see photo). This is the feature which gives it its name. It is the most common style among shrines all over the country. That the building has its main entrance on the side which runs parallel to the roof's ridge (non gabled-side) makes it belong to the style.\n\nSometimes its basic layout, consisting of an elevated partially surrounded by a veranda called \"hisashi\" (all under the same roof), is modified by the addition of a room in front of the entrance. A \"nagare-zukuri\" \"honden\" (sanctuary) varies in roof ridge length from 1 to 11 \"ken\", but is never 6 or 8 \"ken\". The most common sizes are 1 and 3 \"ken\". The oldest shrine in Japan, Uji's Ujigami Shrine, has a \"honden\" of this type. Its external dimensions are 5x3 \"ken\", but internally it is composed of three measuring 1 \"ken\" each.\n\n is an evolution of the \"nagare-zukuri\" in which the roof flows down to form a portico on both non-gabled sides. Examples are the \"honden\" at Itsukushima Shrine and that at Matsuo Taisha in Kyoto.\n\nWhile superficially completely different, the \"nagare-zukuri\" style actually shares an ancestry with the second most popular style in Japan, the \"kasuga-zukuri\".\n\nThe two for example share pillars set over a double-cross-shaped foundation and a roof which extends over the main entrance, covering a veranda. (The \"Kasuga-zukuri\" is the only \"tsumairi\" style to possess this last feature.) The foundation's configuration is typical not of permanent, but of temporary shrines, built to be periodically moved. This shows that, for example, both the \"nagare-zukuri\" Kamo Shrine and Kasuga Taisha used to be dedicated to a mountain cult, and that they had to be moved to follow the movements of the \"kami\". \n\nThe styles also share a veranda in front of the main entrance, which makes it likely they both evolved from a simple gabled roof.\n"}
{"id": "35904762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35904762", "title": "Nancy Lee Gossels", "text": "Nancy Lee Gossels\n\nNancy Lee Gossels is a Jewish artist, editor and poet known for her sculpture and liturgical works. Gossels was named a Copley Artist in 1996 by the prestigious Copley Society of Art. She is also co-editor of the first egalitarian Jewish prayer book, \"Vetaher Libenu\", published in 1980.\n\nBorn in Norwich, Connecticut, Gossels was raised in Putnam, Connecticut by her parents, Benjamin and Sadie Tuber. She received a Bachelor of Arts degree (magna cum laude) from Pembroke College (Brown University) and was elected into the Phi Beta Kappa Society. In 1958, she married C. Peter R. Gossels. They have three children: Lisa R. Gossels, who was honored by the Academy of Television Arts & Sciences in 2001 which awarded her an Emmy for her film, \"The Children of Chabannes\"; Amy D. Gossels, a casting director, film producer and teacher; and Daniel J. Gossels, an investment banker.\n\nGossels worked at \"The Atlantic Monthly\" from 1956 to 1958. Gossels subsequently served as associate editor of \"Child Life Magazine\" from 1958 to 1960 and as a reporter and columnist for the \"Cochituate/Wayland/Weston Town Crier\" from 1962 to 1964.\n\nGossels began her artistic career as a painter, but over time found that her painting was becoming more and more sculptural. In 1986, Gossels and Brenda Zaltas exchanged ideas about designing outdoor sculptures from found metal, discovered that the metal shapes reminded them of menorahs and embarked on a new career. Although they worked separately, they shared a vision and often showed their work together in art exhibits and galleries.\n\nSince the late 1980s, Gossels has received national attention for her unique \"found metal\" sculptures, both religious and non-religious, which \"have been shown in museums, galleries and selected juried exhibitions\" across the U.S., including the Bronx Museum of the Arts, Yeshiva University Museum, the National Museum of American Jewish History in Philadelphia, Mizel Museum in Denver, and the Flagler Museum in Palm Beach.\n\nIn 1988, the In the Spirit Studio / Gallery in New York City featured her aluminum and brass menorah titled, \"Brave New World\". McCalls featured Gossels' \"Reflections\", a Chanukah lamp with bronze mirror back, in its December 1990 article, \"The Art of the Menorah.\"\n\nAt the General Assembly of the Council of Jewish Federations, Combined Jewish Philanthropies included a gift shop that displayed \"unique Jewish artworks from throughout the world,\" including Gossels' menorah works created from industrial metals.\n\nIn 1996 Gossels was named a \"Copley Artist\" by the Copley Society of Art, the oldest art association in America. In order to qualify for this honor, an artist must meet the demanding standards for membership in the society and must have his or her work accepted into five different juried shows produced by the society.\n\nGossels received her art training at the DeCordova Museum School in Lincoln, Massachusetts. She also took classes with Boston area artists Glenda Tall and George Dergalis.\n\nHer works are also represented in a growing number of private collections.\n\nIn addition to her sculpture, Gossels is a poet. According to an interview in the \"Wayland Town Crier\", designing sculptural pieces made her realize \"the connection between the written word and the visual piece.\"\n\nWhile serving as a member of the National Commission on Worship of the Jewish reform movement between 1976 and 1980 and as Vice President of Congregation Beth El of the Sudbury River Valley in Sudbury, Massachusetts, Gossels composed and edited (with Joan S. Kaye and her husband, C. Peter R. Gossels) the first egalitarian Jewish prayer book for the Sabbath and Festivals, \"Vetaher Libenu\", which was published in 1980. Among the many innovations contained in \"Vetaher Libenu\", Nancy Lee Gossels and Joan S. Kaye revised the traditional Hebrew translation of \"Barukh atah Adonai Eloheinu, melekh ha’olam,\" or \"Praised are You, Adonai our God, Ruler to the Universe,\" to \"Holy One of Blessing, Your Presence Fills Creation.\" This invocation is now used by many Reform congregations.\n\nThis siddur, which has sold more than 10,000 copies worldwide, contains many liturgical poems written by Gossels (including her well-known poem, \"Somewhere Out of Time\"), which have been widely republished, translated into German, anthologized and included in the \"Singing the Living Tradition,\" hymnal of the Unitarian Universalism Association.\n\nGossels' poetry has also been included in the anthologies, \"Sarah's Daughters Sing\", \"Esther erhebt ihre Stimme\", \"Kol HaNeshamah\", \"Celebrating the New Moon\", \"The Torah: A Woman's Commentary,\", \"Covenant of the Generations\", and \"Gates of Shabbat: A Guide for Observing Shabbat\".\n\nGossels served as the editor of \"Chadesh Yamenu\" (Renew Our Days), an egalitarian machzor for Rosh HaShanah, published in 1997 and \"Kanfay HaShachar\" (Wings of Dawn), a siddur for weekly morning worship published in 2003.\n\nIn 2011, Gossels co-edited \"Veha'er Eyneynu\" (Enlighten Our Eyes) with Michael Mirman, Harry Abadi and Sheila R. Deitchman.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1977, Gossels served as committee chair of the building committee for Congregation Beth El of the Sudbury River Valley. In this capacity, she oversaw the enlargement of the temple building.\n\nIn 2005, Gossels was honored by the Massachusetts Association of School Committees for her commitment to public education and her generosity of time, energy and support to enhance the educational opportunities of students at Wayland High School by creating and endowing the Gossels Fund for Academic Excellence and the Gossels Fund for Human Dignity.\n\nGossels served as a trustee of the Exploration School from 2001 to 2011, a summer enrichment program for approximately 3,000 students from Grade 4 through high school on the campuses of the St. Mark's School (Massachusetts), Wellesley College and Yale University.\n\nShe currently serves as a member of the board of directors of the Boston Jewish Film Festival and Temple Shir Tikva in Wayland, Massachusetts.\n\n"}
{"id": "5953120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5953120", "title": "Pappenheim", "text": "Pappenheim\n\nPappenheim is a town in the Weißenburg-Gunzenhausen district, in Bavaria, Germany. It is situated on the river Altmühl, 11 km south of Weißenburg in Bayern.\n\nThe architect and professor Eduard Mezger (1807–1894) was born in Pappenheim.\n\nElse Pappenheim (1911-2009) and her father Martin Pappenheim (1881-1943), both were famous psychoanalysts.\n\nHistorically, Pappenheim was a statelet within Holy Roman Empire. It was mediatised to Bavaria in 1806.\n\nCounts of Pappenheim settled at the territory, particularly Gottfried Heinrich Graf zu Pappenheim.\n\n"}
{"id": "1158968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1158968", "title": "Pichhwai", "text": "Pichhwai\n\nPichhwai are devotional pictures found on cloth or paper which portray Lord Krishna. They originated in the Deccan, India, and the villages of Aurangabad and Nathdwara in Rajasthan state. The purpose of Pichhwais, other than artistic appeal, is to narrate tales of Krishna to the illiterate. \n\nThe word Pichhwai stands for hanging at the back (Sanskrit word “Pichh” means back and “wais” means hanging). Pichhwai paintings are big sized paintings done on cotton cloth using natural colours and are hung behind the idol of Lord Shrinath Ji to depict his \"leelas.\" \nPichhwai have become the main export of Nathdwara and are in much demand among foreign visitors. The artists live mostly\nin Chitron ki gali (Street of paintings) and Chitrakaron ka mohallah (colony of painters) and make a close community with constant interaction. Often a Pichhwai painting is a group effort, where several skilful painters work together under the supervision of a master artist. Pichhwai are hung behind Srinathji's idol at Nathdwara temple. \n\nSome prominent Pichhwai artists are Ghasi Ram Sharma, Gopilal Sharma, Narottam Narayan Sharma, Kanhaiyalal Sharma, B. G. Sharma, Reva Shankar Sharma, Dwarkalal Sharma, Bitthaldas Sharma, Bhuralal Sharma, Raghunandan Sharma, Rajaram Sharma, Ghanshyam Sharma, and Nitin-Nilesh Sharma. \n\nThe Pichhwai in the collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art was a gift of The Friends of Asian Art in 2003 and may be seen in Gallery 243. It is 97 5/8 x 103 1/8 inches (248 x 262 cm). (Accession #2003.177)\n\n3.^ History of Pichwai Paintings\n"}
{"id": "3688800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3688800", "title": "Poustinia", "text": "Poustinia\n\nA poustinia () is a small sparsely furnished cabin or room where a person goes to pray and fast alone in the presence of God. The word \"poustinia\" has its origin in the Russian word for desert (пустыня). A person called to live permanently in a poustinia is called a \"poustinik\" (plural: \"poustiniki\"). \n\nOriginally a Russian Orthodox tradition, the poustinia was introduced to Roman Catholic spirituality by the Catholic social activist Catherine Doherty in her best-selling book \"Poustinia: Christian Spirituality of the East for Western Man\" first published in 1975.\n\nAlthough originating with ancient \"startsy\" (wise Russian elders, sg. \"starets\"), Doherty's popular book made the concept of poustinia accessible to modern Western people. In it, she describes the poustinia as \"an entry into the desert, a lonely place, a silent place, where one can lift the two arms of prayer and penance to God in atonement, intercession, reparation for one's sins and those of one's brothers... To go into the poustinia means to listen to God. It means entering into kenosis — the emptying of oneself.\" She promotes the poustinia as a place where anyone — in any walk of life — can go for 24 hours of silence, solitude and prayer. Ultimately, however, the poustinik's call is to the desert of one's own heart wherein he dwells with God alone, whether in the workplace or in a solitary locale. \n\nA poustinia cabin or room generally consists of a bed, a table and chair, a cross, and a Bible.\n\nA \"poustinik\" is one who has been called by God to live life in the desert (\"poustinia\"), alone with God in the service of humanity through prayer, fasting, and availability to those who might call upon him or her. Those called to life in the \"poustinia\" were not uncommon in Russia prior to the suppression of Christianity in the early 20th century. \n\nIn this Eastern Christian expression of the eremitic vocation poustiniks are not solitary but are part of the local community to which they are called. The poustinik is a servant of God and God's people, in communion with the Church. Historically, one who experienced the call \n\"...to the poustinia had first, after securing the blessing of their spiritual director, to find a village. He generally did this through pilgrimage and prayer. Once having discovered the village to which he felt God drawing him, the poustinik went to the elders and asked permission to live there as a poustinik. Permission was happily given, as Russians were glad to have a poustinik praying for them. \nThe poustinik lives alone praying for his own salvation, the salvation of the world, and particularly for the community that God has blessed for him to be a member. Traditionally, \nThe poustinik was also available to the people. When there were special needs, such as a fire to fight or hay to bring in, the poustinik would help. And whenever anyone had something they wanted to talk about—a question about prayer, a problem, a special joy or sorrow—they could go to the poustinik.\nThe poustinik is one who listens, and shares the love of Christ with all whom he encounters, as well as a cup of tea or some food; whatever he has he shares, as God has shared all with him.\n\n"}
{"id": "45618716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45618716", "title": "Puvvada John", "text": "Puvvada John\n\nPuvvada John was Bishop of Nandyal from 9 October 1977 to 24 August 1985.\n\nJohn was ordained deacon in 1918 and priest in 1920. He worked within the Diocese of Dornakal and was Archdeacon of Nandyal from 1963 until his elevation to the Episcopate.\n"}
{"id": "37704635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37704635", "title": "Raphael Cheenath", "text": "Raphael Cheenath\n\nRaphael Cheenath (29 December 1934 – 14 August 2016) was the archbishop of Cuttack-Bhubaneswar, India. He was ordained as a priest of the Society of the Divine Word on 21 September 1963 and appointed bishop of Sambalpur, India on 28 February 1974. He was appointed as archbishop of Cuttack-Bhubaneswar on 1 July 1985 and retired on 11 February 2011. Cheenath died on 14 August 2016 at Holy Spirit Hospital in Mumbai.\n"}
{"id": "27285516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27285516", "title": "Rathwa", "text": "Rathwa\n\nThe Rathwa are a Adivasi caste found in the state of Gujarat in India. They are also known as Rathwa and Rathiya in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. In Gujarat, the Rathwa consist of number of sub-groups. They speak Rathwi (a Bhil language) and/or Gujarati.\n\nThe Rathwa derive their name from the word \"rathbistar\", which means an inhabitant of a forest or hilly region. They are said to have immigrated from Madhya Pradesh in the Middle Ages, and are now found in the talukas of Chhota Udepur, Kawant, Jetpur-Pavi, Sankheda, Nasvadi and Bodeli in Chhota Udepur District and some Talukas of Panchmahal District. \n\nThe community is endogamous, and consist of a number of exogamous clans, the main ones being the Hamania, Thebaria, Mahania, Kothari Baka and Fadia. They are mostly small- and medium-scale farmers. Many Rathwa are landless agriculture labourers, working on the lands of the Patidar community. The community follow their own folk (Traditional) religion. Their customs are similar to other tribal communities of the region such as the Patanwadia. They are classified as a scheduled tribe in 3 states: Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra.\n\n"}
{"id": "44532502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44532502", "title": "Riyasat (Islam)", "text": "Riyasat (Islam)\n\nRiyasat ( ; ) is a main executive body of the Islamic communities in the Balkan region. The head of the riyasat is Reis-ul-ulema (Grand Mufti).\n\nDuring the Ottoman Empire, all Muslims were subjected to the shaykh al-Islām, the supreme religious authority, even though the sultan maintained the title of kaliph. After Austrian-Hungarian occupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1878, general Josip Filipović, who led the occupation, received instructions that Bosnian Muslims should become independent from the shaykh al-Islām in Istanbul. The Austrian-Hungarian authorities had in plan to make this separation look like a local initiative.\n\nAfter Filipović failed to do so, Gyula Andrássy, at the time foreign minister of Austria-Hungary, tried to do the same through joint Austro-Hungarian Ministry of Finance, which was responsible for Bosnia and Herzegovina, headed by Béni Kállay, and governor of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Josip Filipović. Andrássy saw this as a political instrument to strengthen the position of the Austro-Hungarian authorities in newly occupied Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nBosnian Muslims fiercely opposed to this move of the Austrian-Hungarian authorities. The conflict reached its peak when the Ottoman Sublime Porte named Ahmed Şükrü, a former Rumelian kazasker, a new Bosnian-Herzegovinian mufti on 18 June 1880. They based their decision on the Novi Pazar Convention of 1879 between Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire, in which, among other things, Austria-Hungary committed to respect Bosnian Muslims' religious freedoms, while Bosnian Muslims received the right to maintain religions connections with shaykh al-Islām in Istanbul.\n\nBosnian Muslims opposed any separation from Istanbul. Austria-Hungary agreed that shaykh al-Islām could appoint religious officials in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but only from the local population. They asked from the Austrian-Hungarian ambassador in Istanbul to prevent Şükrü from taking the office of Bosnian-Herzegovinian Mufti. The Austrian-Hungarian authorities saw Husein Nur Hafizović as chief representative of Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina who was at the time supreme sharia judge in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nIn the end, Austrian-Hungarian authorities succeeded in preventing Şükrü from taking the office of mufti and shaykh al-Islām Uryanizade Ahmed Esad named Mustafa Hilmi Hadžiomerović a new Bosnian-Herzegovinian mufti. Hadžiomerović was known as suitable person for the Austro-Hungarian authorities. Immediately after the Austrian-Hungarian forces occupied Bosnia and Herzegovina, he called for Bosnian Muslims to accept military laws of the Austrian-Hungarian occupational administration. On 17 October 1882, emperor Franz Joseph issued an imperial decree in which he proclaimed Hadžiomerović a reis-ul-ulema (grand mufti) of Bosnia and Herzegovina. This made Muslims in Bosnia and Herzegovina independent from the Ottoman religious authority, and nobody from the Ottoman Empire opposed this decision of the Austrian-Hungarian emperor.\n\nAfter Hadžiomerović was named grand mufti, the institution of Riyasat, as main executive body of the Islamic community in Bosnia and Herzegovina, was established. It was a unique institution in all of the Islamic World. Béni Kállay's efforts of creating an independent Islamic community in Bosnia and Herzegovina were finally realised. The emperor had the right to name grand muftis and heads of majlises. Other Islamic religious officials were named by the Land Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45037446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45037446", "title": "Salok Mardana", "text": "Salok Mardana\n\nSalok Mardana () are two Saloks, present in Sikh religious text and eternal guru Guru Granth Sahib on page 553. The authorship of these Shaloks are controversial among different scholars. Mardana literally means manly or macho.\nThere are three major views regarding authorship of these Shaloks:\n\nAlthough it is widely believed that these Shalok belong to Guru Nanak, as pen name \"Nanak\" is used in these Saloks.\n\nFirst Salok states: \"Shalok Mardana 1: The Dark Age of Kali Yuga is the vessel, filled with the wine of sexual desire; the mind is the drunkard. Anger is the cup, filled with emotional attachment, and egotism is the server. Drinking too much in the company of falsehood and greed, one is ruined. So let good deeds be your distillery, and Truth your molasses; in this way, make the most excellent wine of Truth. Make virtue your bread, good conduct the ghee, and modesty the meat to eat. As Gurmukh, these are obtained, O Nanak; partaking of them, one's sins depart. \"\n\nSecond Salok states:\nMarḏānā 1:The human body is the vat, self-conceit is the wine, and desire is the company of drinking buddies. The cup of the mind's longing is overflowing with falsehood, and the Messenger of Death is the cup-bearer. Drinking in this wine, O Nanak, one takes on countless sins and corruptions. So make spiritual wisdom your molasses, the Praise of God your bread, and the Fear of God the meat you eat. O Nanak, this is the true food; let the True Name be your only Support. ||2||\n\nThird Stanza of Second shalok states: If the human body is the vat, and self-realization is the wine, then a stream of Ambrosial Nectar is produced. Meeting with the Society of the Saints, the cup of the Lord's Love is filled with this Ambrosial Nectar; drinking it in, one's corruptions and sins are wiped away. ||3||\n"}
{"id": "42951438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42951438", "title": "Sanban Puren Pai", "text": "Sanban Puren Pai\n\nSanban puren pai (三班仆人派 Three Grades of Servant Church) is a Christian doomsday sect in China. The group was founded in Henan by Xu Wenku (徐文库 also known as Xu Shuangfu 徐双富) who claimed to be the \"Great Servant\" 大仆人 in the 1990s.\n"}
{"id": "3762463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3762463", "title": "Sayadaw", "text": "Sayadaw\n\nA sayadaw (, ; lit. \"royal teacher\" and alternatively spelt \"hsayadaw\", \"sayado\", \"sayāḍo\" or \"sayāḍaw\") is a Burmese Buddhist title used to reference the senior monk or abbot of a monastery. Some distinguished sayadaws would often be referred to as a \"sayadawgyi\" (, as a sign of reverence. The terms \"sayadaw\" and \"sayadawgyi\" originally corresponded to the senior monks who taught the former Burmese kings. These sayadaws may be influential teachers of Buddhism and also important meditation practitioners. They usually are abbots of monasteries or monastery networks with a large number of resident monks and a lay following.\n\nIn Buddhism in Burma, several honorific terms exist for Buddhist monks, reflecting their achievements and how many vassas they have passed. The most frequently used terms, which are used as prefixes to the monks' dharma name, include:\n\nA sayadaw may be known by his dharma name (), a qualified name, or by the name of his monastery. Thus, venerable Mingun Sayadaw, who served as \"Chief Respondent\" at the Sixth Buddhist council in Yangon, could be addressed as:\n\n\nThe following is a list of some prominent sayadaws in recent Burmese history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41684281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41684281", "title": "Shahriyar I", "text": "Shahriyar I\n\nShahriyar I (Persian: شهریار) was the sixth ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 817 to 825. He was the grandson and successor of Sharwin I. Before Shahriyar became ruler of the Bavand dynasty, he was taken as hostage by Harun al-Rashid to Baghdad, where Shahriyar stayed for four years until he was allowed to return to Tabaristan.\n\nIn 817, Sharwin I died, and Shahriyar succeeded him. After Shahriyar's coronation, the Abbasid caliph al-Ma'mun, sent him robes of honour, and requested his and the Qarinvand ruler Qarin ibn Vindadhhurmuzd's aid in the Arab–Byzantine wars. Shahriyar declined the request, while Qarin accepted, and became successful in his campaign against the Byzantines. Qarin was then bestowed with many honors by Al-Ma'mun. Shahriyar, jealous of Qarin's fame, began annexing some of the latter's territory. In 817, during the reign of Qarin's son Mazyar, Shahriyar, with the aid of Mazyar's uncle Vinda-Umid, expelled the latter from Tabaristan, and seized all his territories. Shahriyar later died in 825, and was succeeded by his son Shapur.\n"}
{"id": "178433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178433", "title": "Sheikh", "text": "Sheikh\n\nSheikh ( , ; ' , mostly pronounced , plural ' )—also transliterated Sheik, Shykh, Shayk, and Shekh —is an honorific title in the Arabic language. It commonly designates the ruler of a tribe, who inherited the title from his father. \"Sheikh\" is given to a royal male at birth, whereas the related title \"Sheikha\" is given to a royal female at birth.\n\nThe word in Arabic stems from a triliteral root connected with age and aging: , \"shīn-yā'-khā\"'. The title carries the meaning leader, elder, or noble, especially in the Arabian Peninsula within the Tribes of Arabia, where \"shaikh\" became a traditional title of a Bedouin tribal leader in recent centuries. Due to the cultural impact of Arab civilization, and especially through the spread of Islam, the word has gained currency as a religious term or general honorific in many other parts of the world as well, notably in Muslim cultures in Africa and Asia.\n\nIn Sufism, the word \"Shaikh\" is used to represent a \"wali\" who initiates a particular \"tariqa\" which leads to Muhammad, although many saints have this title added before their names out of respect from their followers. One prominent example is Shaikh Abdul Qadir Jilani, who initiated the Qadiriyya order which relies strongly upon adherence to the fundamentals of Islam.\n\nIn the Arabian Peninsula, the title is used for royalty, such as kings, princes, and princesses. For example, it was the term used in the West to refer to the leaders of Kuwait's ruling Al-Sabah dynasty, and in UAE Al-Nahyan dynasty. The same applies to all the Gulf countries. The term is used by almost every male and female (Sheikha) member of all the Gulf royal houses.\n\nIn Mount Lebanon, the title had the same princely and royal connotation as in the Arabian peninsula until the Ottoman invasion in 1516 since it represented an indigenous autonomous \"sui iuris\" ruler or tribal chief. An example of an ancient families that holds the title of \"sui iuris\" sheikh is the Al-Chemor family ruling since 1211 CE in Koura and Zgharta until 1747 CE, Abu Harmoush family which ruled the Chouf region until the Battle of Ain Dara in 1711 CE. After the Ottoman rule and the implementation of the Iltizam system, the title gained a noble instead of royal connotation since it was bestowed by a higher authority, in this case the Ottoman appointed Emir who was nothing more than a mültezim or tax collector for the empire. Some very influential Maronite families -who had the title bestowed upon them in chronological order- are El Hachem of Akoura (descendants of The Hashemite Family, since 1523), El-Khazen (since 1545), Hubaysh of Kisrawan, and Douaihy of Zgharta. Other families who are nowadays addressed or known as \"Sheikhs\" were not traditionally rulers of provinces, but instead they were high-ranking officials at the service of the Emir at that time.\n\nIn the Maghreb, during the Almohad dynasty, the caliph was also counseled by a body of shaykhs. They represented all the different tribes under their rules, including Arabs, (Bedouins), Andalusians and Berbers and were also responsible for mobilizing their kinsmen in the event of war.\n\nIn the Muslim parts of the Horn of Africa, Sheikh is often used as a noble title. In Somali society, it is reserved as an honorific for senior Muslim leaders and clerics (\"wadaad\"), and is often abbreviated to \"Sh\". Famous local Sheikhs include Abdirahman bin Isma'il al-Jabarti, an early Muslim leader in northern Somalia; Abadir Umar Ar-Rida, the patron saint of Harar; Abd al-Rahman al-Jabarti, Sheikh of the riwaq in Cairo who recorded the Napoleonic invasion of Egypt; Abd Al-Rahman bin Ahmad al-Zayla'i, scholar who played a crucial role in the spread of the Qadiriyyah movement in Somalia and East Africa; Shaykh Sufi, 19th century scholar, poet, reformist and astrologist; Abdallah al-Qutbi, polemicist, theologian and philosopher best known for his five-part \"Al-Majmu'at al-mubaraka\" (\"The Blessed Collection\"); and Muhammad Al-Sumaalee, teacher in the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca who influenced many of the prominent Islamic scholars of today.\n\nIn West Africa, sheikh is a common title for those of Royal Bloodlines and Muslim scholars and leaders. Among Islamic communities in Senegal, Timbo, Niger and Gambia, among other areas, the title is usually spelled as \"Cheikh\".\n\nOne of the most notable Royal families of West Africa belongs to Abdul-Rahman ibn Ibrahim Sori, who was a Torodbe Fulani Muslim ruler (Emir) born in 1762 in the city of Timbo, now located in Guinea. His father, Almami Ibrahim Sori consolidated the Islamic confederation of Futa Jallon in 1776, with Timbo as its capital, where Abdul Rahman lived and studied. He was learned in the Islamic sciences and could speak at least 4 different African languages, in addition to Arabic.\n\nAbdul-Rahman ibn Ibrahim Sori Was sold into slavery and became an American citizen in Natchez, Mississippi. His title of Emir was reinstated upon his freedom by United States John Quincy Adams upon his return to Africa, Liberia.\n\nEmir Abdul-Rahman ibn Ibrahim Sori's descendants, Sheik Dr. Artemus Gaye of Monrovia, Liberia and Sheika Karen Chatman of Natchez, Mississippi, maintain their official Royal titles.\n\nIn South Asia it is not an ethnic title but an occupational title generally attributed to Muslim trading families with rarely any Arab lineage. After the advent of Islam in South Asia, (Brahmins, Rajputs, Khatris, Kayasthas and Shudras) tribes also converted to Islam and adopted the title. In Punjab, Pakistan the Hindu Brahmins, Kshatriya, Rathores, Bhattis, Chauhans, Rangrez and other Rajput converted by different Ismaili Pirs to Islam. Ismaili Pirs gave the new converts of Punjab the hereditary title of Shaikh as well as the Muslims who immigrated from Arabia and settled in Punjab adopted this title.\n\nDistinguished Sindhi Shaikhs include Imtiaz Shaikh, MPA Shikarpur and Special Advisor to PM and Former Provincial Minister and Bureaucrat, Sindh; Shaikh Ayaz, Sindhi poet of Pakistan; Najmudddin Shaikh, Former Foreign Secretary, Pakistan; Ghulam Shabir Shaikh, Former IGP Sindh, Pakistan; Dr. Abdul Hafeez Shaikh, Federal Finance Minister, Pakistan; Muhammad Ayub Shaikh, Chairman Employees' Old Age Benefits Institution], Pakistan; Maqbool Shaikh, Former Provincial Minister for Food and Health, Sindh; Faraz Shaikh, Chairman Sindh Naujawan Shaikh Ittehad, Sindh; Faryaz Nisar Shaikh, Vice Chairman Sindh Naujawan Shaikh Ittehad, Sindh; Imam Bux Shaikh, Former General Secretary Peoples Students Federation Karachi, Former General Secretary Peoples Engineers Forum Sindh, Famous Student Leader of Pakistan.\n\nIn Indonesia and other parts of Southeast Asia, Sheikhs are respected by local Muslims. Higher knowledgeable people in Indonesia are usually referred to as \"Ustad\" or \"Kyiayi\".\n\nFrom the perspective of Iran (which includes Islamic view, too), the word or title of Sheikh possesses diverse meanings, among the individuals who are aged, wise, scientist; and totally it has been a honorable title who was/is used for the elders/learned (scholars), such as: Sheikh al-Rayees Abu Ali Sina, Sheikh Mufid, Sheikh Morteza Ansari, etc. The ones (Islamic scholars) who are from the Islamic prophet Muhammad's offspring/descendants, are called Sayyid/Seyyed instead of Sheikh, such as Seyyed Ali Khamenei and Seyyed Ali Sistani.\n\nHistorically, female scholars in Islam were referred to as \"shaykhah\" (Arabic: ) (alt. \"shaykhat\"). Notable \"shaykha\" include the 10th-century Shaykhah Fakhr-un-Nisa Shuhdah and 18th-century scholar Al-Shaykha Fatima al-Fudayliyya.\n\nA daughter or wife or mother of a sheikh is also called a \"shaykhah\". Currently, the term \"shaykhah\" is commonly used for women of ruling families, in the Arab states of the Persian Gulf with the exception of Oman.\n\n"}
{"id": "211073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211073", "title": "Shema Yisrael", "text": "Shema Yisrael\n\nShema Yisrael (or Sh'ma Yisrael; ; \"Hear, [O] Israel\") are the first two words of a section of the Torah, and is the title (better known as The Shema) of a prayer that serves as a centerpiece of the morning and evening Jewish prayer services. The first verse encapsulates the monotheistic essence of Judaism: \"Hear, O Israel: the our God, the is one\" (), found in . Observant Jews consider the Shema to be the most important part of the prayer service in Judaism, and its twice-daily recitation as a \"mitzvah\" (religious commandment). It is traditional for Jews to say the Shema as their last words, and for parents to teach their children to say it before they go to sleep at night.\n\nThe verse is sometimes alternatively translated as \"The is our God; the is one\" or \"The is our God, the alone.\" (Biblical Hebrew rarely used a copula in the present tense, so it has to be inferred; in the Shema, the syntax behind this inference is ambiguous.) The word used for \"the \" is the tetragrammaton YHWH.\n\nThe term \"Shema\" is used by extension to refer to the whole part of the daily prayers that commences with \"Shema Yisrael\" and comprises Deuteronomy , , and Numbers . These sections of the Torah are read in the weekly Torah portions \"Va'etchanan\", \"Eikev\", and \"Shlach\", respectively.\n\nOriginally, the \"Shema\" consisted of only one verse: (see Talmud Sukkah 42a and Berachot 13b). The recitation of the Shema in the liturgy, however, consists of three portions: , , and Numbers . The three portions are already mentioned in the Mishnah (Berachot 2:2). The three portions relate to central issues of Jewish belief. In the Mishnah (Berakhot 2:5) the reciting of the shema was linked with re-affirming a personal relationship with God's rule. Literally, reciting the shema was stated as \"receiving the kingdom of heaven.\" [\"Heaven\" is a metaphor for God. The best texts of the Mishnah, Kaufmann and Parma, do not have the addition \"yoke\" that is found in later printed Mishnahs: \"receive the {yoke of the} kingdom of Heaven.\" The original statement appears to have been \"to receive the kingdom of Heaven\".]\n\nAdditionally, the Talmud points out that subtle references to the Ten Commandments can be found in the three portions. As the Ten Commandments were removed from daily prayer in the Mishnaic period (70–200 CE), the Shema is seen as an opportunity to commemorate the Ten Commandments.\n\nThere are two larger-print letters in the first sentence ('ayin ע and daleth ד) which, when combined, spell \"עד\". In Hebrew this means \"witness\". The idea thus conveyed is that through the recitation or proclamation of the Shema one is a living witness testifying to the truth of its message. Modern Kabbalistic schools, namely that of the Ari, teach that when one recites the last letter of the word \"'ecḥad'\" (אחד), meaning \"one\", he is to intend that he is ready to \"die into God\".\n\nThe first, pivotal, words of the Shema are, in the original , which can be transliterated: \"Sh'ma Yisra'el, YHWH 'eloheinu, YHWH 'eḥad\".\n\nRabbinic Judaism teaches that the Tetragrammaton (י-ה-ו-ה), YHVH, is the ineffable and actual name of God, and as such is not read aloud in the Shema but is traditionally replaced with אדני, Adonai (\"\"). For that reason, the Shema is recited aloud as:\n\nThe literal word meanings are roughly as follows:\n\nThis first verse of the Shema relates to the kingship of God. The first verse, \"Hear, O Israel: the our God is one ,\" has ever been regarded as the confession of belief in the One God. Due to the ambiguity of the possible ways to translate the Hebrew passage, there are several possible renderings:\n\nMany commentaries have been written about the subtle differences between the translations. There is an emphasis on the oneness of God and on the sole worship of God by Israel. There are other translations, though most retain one or the other emphases.\n\nבָּרוּךְ שֵׁם כְּבוֹד מַלְכוּתוֹ לְעוֹלָם וָעֶד - \"Blessed be the name of His glorious kingdom for ever and ever”\n\nThe second line is a rabbinic addition and is recited silently during congregational worship (except on Yom Kippur, when it is recited aloud). It was originally a liturgical response in use in the Temple when the name of God was pronounced and took the form of \"Baruch shem k’vod l’olam\", \"Blessed be his glorious name\" (Psalm 72:19). However, in time the words \"malchuto\" (\"His kingdom\") and \"va’ed\" (\"for ever and ever\") were added. \"Malchuto\" was introduced by the rabbis during Roman rule as a counter to the claim of divine honors by Roman emperors. \"Va’ed\" was introduced at the time of the Second Temple to contrast the view of the \"minim\" (heretics) that there is no life after death.\n\nThe following verses are commonly referred to as the \"V'ahavta\" according to the first word of the verse immediately following the \"Shema\", or in Classical Hebrew \"V'ahav'ta\" meaning \"and you shall love...\". They contain the command to love God with all one's heart, soul, and might (). The Talmud emphasizes that you will, at some point, whether you choose to or not, and therefore uses \"shall\" - future tense - love God.\n\nThen verse 7 goes on to remind the community to remember all the commandments and to \"teach them diligently to your children and speak of them when you sit down and when you walk, when you lie down and when you rise\", to recite the words of God when retiring or rising; to bind those words \"on thy arm and thy head\" (classically Jewish oral tradition interprets as \"tefillin\"), and to \"inscribe them on the door-posts of your house and on your gates\" (referring to \"mezuzah\").\n\nThe passage following the \"Shema\" and \"V'ahavta\" relates to the issue of reward and punishment. It contains the promise of reward for serving God with all one's heart, soul, and might (Deut 11:13) and for the fulfillment of the laws. It also contains punishment for transgression. It also contains a repetition of the contents of the first portion -but this time spoken to the second person plural, (Whereas the first portion is directed to the individual Jew, this time it is directed to the whole community, all the Jews).\n\nThe third portion relates to the issue of redemption. Specifically, it contains the law concerning the tzitzit (Numbers 15:37-41) as a reminder that all laws of God are obeyed, as a warning against following evil inclinations and in remembrance of the exodus from Egypt. For the prophets and rabbis, the exodus from Egypt is paradigmatic of Jewish faith that God redeems from all forms of foreign domination. It can be found in the portion \"Shlach Lecha\" in the book of Numbers.\n\nIn summary, the content flows from the assertion of the oneness of God's kingship. Thus, in the first portion, there is a command to love God with all one's heart, soul, and might, and to remember and teach these very important words to the children throughout the day. Obeying these commands, says the second portion, will lead to rewards, and disobeying them will lead to punishment. To ensure fulfillment of these key commands, God also commands in the third portion a practical reminder, wearing the \"tzitzit\", \"that ye may remember and do all my commandments, and be holy unto your God.\"\n\nThe full content verse by verse, in Hebrew, English transliteration, and English translation, can be found on the jewfaq.org website.\n\nThe second line quoted, \"Blessed be the Name of His glorious kingdom for ever and ever\", was originally a congregational response to the declaration of the Oneness of God; it is therefore often printed in small font and recited in an undertone, as recognition that it is not, itself, a part of the cited Biblical verses. The third section of the Shema ends with Numbers 15:41, but traditional Jews end the recitation of the Shema by reciting the first word of the following blessing, \"Emet\", or \"Truth\" without interruption.\n\nIn Orthodox Judaism, women are not required to daily recite the Shema (as a command from the Torah), as with other time-bound requirements which might impinge on their traditional familial obligations, although they are obligated to pray at least once daily without a specific liturgy requirement, and many fulfill that obligation through prayers like the Shema.\n\nConservative Judaism generally regards Jewish women as being obligated to recite the Shema at the same times as men.\n\nReform and Reconstructionist Judaism do not regard gender-related traditional Jewish ritual requirements as necessary in modern circumstances, including obligations for men, but not women, to pray specific prayers at specific times. Instead, both genders may fulfill all requirements.\n\nThe Benedictions preceding and following the \"Shema\" are traditionally credited to the members of the Great Assembly. They were first instituted in the liturgy of the Temple in Jerusalem.\n\nAccording to the Talmud, the reading of the Shema morning and evening fulfils the commandment \"You shall meditate therein day and night\". As soon as a child begins to speak, his father is directed to teach him the verse \"Moses commanded us a law, even the inheritance of the congregation of Jacob\" (Deut. 33:4), and teach him to read the Shema (Talmud, Sukkah 42a). The reciting of the first verse of the Shema is called \"the acceptance of the yoke of the kingship of God\" (\"kabalat ol malchut shamayim\") (Mishnah Berachot 2:5). Judah ha-Nasi, who spent all day involved with his studies and teaching, said just the first verse of the Shema in the morning (Talmud Berachot 13b) \"as he passed his hands over his eyes\" which appears to be the origin of the Jewish custom to cover the eyes with the right hand whilst reciting the first verse.\n\nThe first verse of the Shema is recited aloud, simultaneously by the hazzan and the congregation, which responds with the rabbinically instituted \"Baruch Shem\" (\"Blessed be the Name\") in silence before continuing the rest of Shema. Only on Yom Kippur is this response said aloud. The remainder of the Shema is read in silence. Sephardim recite the whole of the Shema aloud, except the \"Baruch Shem\". Reform Jews also recite the whole of the first paragraph of the Shema aloud.\n\nDuring \"Shacharit\", there are two blessing before the Shema and one thereafter. These numbers, two before and one after, are based on the Mishnah Tractate Berachos, Chapter 11, which states: \"In the morning one blesses two before and one after,\" though there is a question in Jewish law as to whether one recites these blessing \"on\" the Shema, or \"surrounding\" the Shema. The conclusion that has been drawn is that they are to be blessing \"surrounding\" the Shema, because the structure is similar to that of blessings of the Torah, and there is doubt as to whether such blessings would actually \"enhance\" the Shema.\n\nThe two blessings that are recited before the Shema are Yotzer ohr\" and Ahava Rabbah/Ahavat Olam. The blessing after is known as Emet Vayatziv.\n\nDuring \"Maariv\", there are two blessings before the Shema and two after. The two before are HaMaariv Aravim and Ahavat Olam. The two after are Emet V'Emunah and Hashkiveinu. Ashkenazim add Baruch Hashem L'Olam outside of Israel on weekdays.\n\nOverall, the three blessings in the morning and four in the evening which accompany the Shema sum to seven, in accordance with the verse in Psalms: \"I praise You seven times each day for Your just rules.\"\n\nBefore going to sleep, the first paragraph of the Shema is recited. This is not only a commandment directly given in the Bible (in Deuteronomy 6:6–7), but is also alluded to from verses such as \"Commune with your own heart upon your bed\" (Psalms 4:4).\n\nSome also have the custom to read all three paragraphs, along with a whole list of sections from Psalms, Tachanun, and other prayers. Altogether this is known as the \"K'riat Shema she-al ha-mitah\". According to Arizal, reading this prayer with great concentration is also effective in cleansing one from sin. This is discussed in the Tanya.\n\nThe exhortation by the Kohen (\"priest\") in calling Israel to arms against an enemy (which does not apply when the Temple in Jerusalem is not standing) also includes Shema Yisrael (; ).\n\nAccording to the Talmud, Rabbi Akiva patiently endured while his flesh was being torn with iron combs, and died reciting the Shema. He pronounced the last word of the sentence, \"Eḥad\" (\"one\") with his last breath.. Since then, it has been traditional for Jews to say the Shema as their last words.\n\nRoi Klein (d. 2006), a major in the IDF, said the Shema before jumping on a live grenade to save his fellow soldiers, in accordance with the traditional Jewish practice of reciting the Shema when one believes one is going to die.\n\nArnold Schoenberg used it as part of the story to his narrative orchestral work \"A Survivor from Warsaw\" (1947).\n\nIn \"Parade\", a musical based on true events, the main character Leo Frank, wrongly accused of the murder of a child worker at the pencil factory he manages, recites the Shema Yisrael as a vigilante gang kidnap and hang him in the final scenes of the work.\n\nPop versions have been published by Mordechai ben David and Sarit Hadad.\n\nIn \"Pi\", Max Cohen and Lenny Meyer can be seen reciting the first three verses of the Shema.\n\nIn \"The Shoes of the Fisherman\", Anthony Quinn, as the fictional Pope Kiril, explores the back streets of Rome disguised as a simple priest, and recites the Shema at the bedside of a dying Roman Jew.\n\nReggae singer Matisyahu recites the Shema in his songs \"Got no water\" and \"Tel Aviv'n\".\n\nYaakov Shwekey in his \"Shema Yisrael,\" used the story of Rabbi Eliezer Silver's saving Jewish children hidden in Christian monasteries following the Holocaust by reciting the first line of the Shema.\n\nSinger Justin Bieber says the Shema before each public performance with his manager Scooter Braun, who is Jewish.\n\nThe second section of the Tanya brings the mystical panentheism of the founder of Hasidic Judaism, the Baal Shem Tov, into philosophical explanation. It outlines the Hasidic interpretation of God's Unity in the first two lines of the Shema, based upon their interpretation in Kabbalah. The emphasis on Divine Omnipresence and immanence lies behind Hasidic joy and \"devekut\", and its stress on transforming the material into spiritual worship. In this internalisation of Kabbalistic ideas, the Hasidic follower seeks to reveal the Unity and hidden holiness in all activities of life.\n\nMedieval, rationalist Jewish philosophers (exponents of \"Hakirah\"–rational \"investigation\" from first principles in support of Judaism), such as Maimonides, describe Biblical monotheism to mean that there is only one God, and his essence is a unique, simple, infinite Unity. Jewish mysticism provides a philosophic paradox, by dividing God's Unity into God's essence and emanation. \nIn Kabbalah and especially Hasidism, God's Unity means that there is nothing independent of his essence. The new doctrine in Lurianic Kabbalah of God's \"tzimtzum\" (\"withdrawal\") received different interpretations after Isaac Luria, from the literal to the metaphorical. To Hasidism and Schneur Zalman, it is unthinkable for the \"withdrawal\" of God that \"makes possible\" Creation, to be taken literally. The oyxmoron of \"Tzimtzum\" only relates to the Ohr Ein Sof (\"Infinite Light\"), not the Ein Sof (Divine essence) itself. God's infinity is revealed in both complementary infinitude (infinite light) and finitude (finite light). The \"withdrawal\" was only a concealment of the Infinite Light into the essence of God, to allow the latent potentially finite light to emerge after the God limiting \"tzimtzum\". God himself remains unaffected (\"For I, the Lord, I have not changed\" Malachi 3:6). His essence was One, alone, before Creation, and still One, alone, after Creation, without any change. As the \"tzimtzum\" only limits God to a concealment, therefore God's Unity remains Omnipresent. In the Baal Shem Tov's interpretation, Divine providence affects every detail of Creation. The \"movement of a leaf in the wind\" is part of the unfolding Divine presence, and is a necessary part of the complete \"Tikkun\" (Rectification in Kabbalah). This awareness of the loving Divine purpose and significance of each individual and his free will, awakens mystical love and awe of God.\n\nSchneur Zalman explains that God's divided Unity has two levels, an unlimited level and a limited one, that are both paradoxically true. The main text of medieval Kabbalah, the Zohar, describes the first verse of the Shema (\"Hear Israel, the Lord is God, the Lord is One\") as the \"Upper level Unity\", and the second line (\"Blessed be the Name of the Glory of His Kingdom forever\") as the limited \"Lower level Unity\". Schneur Zalman gives the Chabad explanation of this. In his Kabbalah philosophy, all Creation is dependent on the limited, immanent, potentially finite, \"Light that Fills all Worlds\", that each Creation receives continually. All is \"bittul\"–nullified to the light, even though in our realm this complete dependence is hidden. From this perspective, of God knowing the Creation on its own terms, Creation exists, but the true essence of anything is only the Divine spark that continuously recreates it from nothing. God is One, as nothing has any independent existence without this continual flow of Divine Will to Create. This is the pantheistic Lower Level Unity.\n\nIn relation to God's essence, Creation affects no change or withdrawal. All Creation takes place \"within\" God. \"There is nothing but God\". The ability to create can only come from the infinite Divine essence, represented by the Tetragrammaton name of God. However, \"It is not the essence of the Divine, to create Worlds and sustain them\", as this ability is only external to the Infinite essence \"outside\" God. Creation only derives from God's revelatory antropomorphic \"speech\" (as in Genesis 1), and even this is unlike the external speech of Man, as it too remains \"within\" God. From this upper perspective of God knowing himself on his own terms, the created existence of Creation does not exist, as it is as nothing in relation to Zalman's philosophically constructed concept of God's essence. This monistic acosmism is the \"Upper Level Unity\", as from this perspective, only God exists.\n\nThe \"Shema\" is one of the Old Testament sentences quoted in the New Testament. The Gospel of mentions that Jesus of Nazareth considered the opening exhortation of the Shema to be the first of his two greatest commandments and linked with a second (based on Leviticus 19:18b): \"The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord: And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment. And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.\" In the Shema is also linked with Leviticus 19:18, only by the questioner, before Jesus' agreement. The verses Deuteronomy 6:5 and Leviticus 19:18b both begin with \"ve'ahavta\", \"and you shall love\". In Luke's Gospel, it appears that this connection between the two verses was already part of cultural discussion or practice.\n\nTheologians Carl Friedrich Keil and Franz Delitzsch noted that \"the heart is mentioned first (in Deuteronomy 6:5), as the seat of the emotions generally and of love in particular; then follows the soul (\"nephesh\") as the centre of personality in man, to depict the love as pervading the entire self-consciousness; and to this is added, \"with all the strength,\" i.e. of body and soul\".\n\nThe \"Shema\" has also been incorporated in Christian liturgy, and is discussed in terms of the Trinity. In the Catholic Liturgy of the Hours, the \"Shema\" is read during the Night Prayer or \"Complines\" every Saturday, thereby concluding the day's prayers. The Anglican Book of Common Prayer in use in Canada since 1962, has included the Shema in its Summary of the Law. Since 2012, when the Anglican Use version of the BCP was adapted for use in Canada, it has been recited by Roman Catholics as well.\n\nThe Orthodox Church of the Culdees utilize the Shema in the Daily Services.\n\nThe words used in the Shema prayer are similar to the words of Sura 112 (Al-Tawhid or Monotheism) in Quran. The words \" in Arabic is identical to the word \" in Hebrew.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28163575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28163575", "title": "Solomon's Temple", "text": "Solomon's Temple\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, Solomon's Temple, also known as the First Temple, was the Holy Temple (: \"Beit HaMikdash\") in ancient Jerusalem before its destruction by Nebuchadnezzar II after the Siege of Jerusalem of 587 BCE and its subsequent replacement with the Second Temple in the 6th century BCE.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible states that the temple was constructed under Solomon, king of the United Kingdom of Israel and Judah and that during the Kingdom of Judah, the temple was dedicated to Yahweh, and is said to have housed the Ark of the Covenant. Jewish historian Josephus says that \"the temple was burnt four hundred and seventy years, six months, and ten days after it was built\".\n\nBecause of the religious sensitivities involved, and the politically volatile situation in Jerusalem, only limited archaeological surveys of the Temple Mount have been conducted. No archaeological excavations have been allowed on the Temple Mount during modern times. Therefore, there are very few pieces of archaeological evidence for the existence of Solomon's Temple. An Ivory pomegranate which mentions priests in the house \"of ---h\", and an inscription recording the Temple's restoration under Jehoash have both appeared on the antiquities market, but their authenticity has been challenged and they are the subject of controversy.\n\nThe only source of information on the First Temple is the Tanakh. According to the biblical sources, the temple was constructed under Solomon, during the united monarchy of Israel and Judah. The Bible describes Hiram I of Tyre who furnished architects, workmen and cedar timbers for the temple of his ally Solomon at Jerusalem. He also co-operated with Solomon in mounting an expedition on the Red Sea. puts the date of the beginning of building the temple \"in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel\". The conventional dates of Solomon's reign are circa 970 to 931 BCE. This puts the date of its construction in the mid-10th century BCE. Schmid and Rupprecht are of the view that the site of the temple used to be a Jebusite shrine which Solomon chose in an attempt to unify the Jebusites and Israelites. says that it took Solomon 20 years altogether to build the Temple and his royal palace. The Temple itself finished being built after 7 years. During the united monarchy the Temple was dedicated to Yahweh, the God of Israel, and housed the Ark of the Covenant. Rabbinic sources state that the First Temple stood for 410 years and, based on the 2nd-century work Seder Olam Rabbah, place construction in 832 BCE and destruction in 422 BCE (3338 AM), 165 years later than secular estimates.\n\nThe exact location of the Temple is unknown: it is believed to have been situated upon the hill which forms the site of the 1st century Second Temple and present-day Temple Mount, where the Dome of the Rock is situated.\n\nAccording to the Tanakh, the Temple was plundered by the Neo-Babylonian Empire king Nebuchadnezzar II when the Babylonians attacked Jerusalem during the brief reign of Jehoiachin c. 598 BCE (2 Kings 24:13). A decade later, Nebuchadnezzar again besieged Jerusalem and after 30 months finally breached the city walls in 587 BCE, subsequently burning the Temple, along with most of the city (2 Kings 25). According to Jewish tradition, the Temple was destroyed on \"Tisha B'Av\", the 9th day of Av (Hebrew calendar).\n\nThe Temple of Solomon is considered to be built according to Phoenician design, and its description is considered the best description of what a Phoenician temple looked like. The detailed descriptions provided in the Tanakh are the sources for reconstructions of its appearance. Technical details are lacking, since the scribes who wrote the books were not architects or engineers. Nevertheless, the descriptions have inspired modern replicas of the temple and influenced later structures around the world.\n\nReconstructions differ; the following is largely based on \"Easton's Bible Dictionary\" and the \"Jewish Encyclopedia\":\n\nThe Holy of Holies, or \"Kodesh haKodashim\" in Hebrew, (1 Kings 6:19; 8:6), also called the \"Inner House\" (6:27), (Heb. 9:3) was 20 cubits in length, breadth, and height. The usual explanation for the discrepancy between its height and the 30-cubit height of the temple is that its floor was elevated, like the \"cella\" of other ancient temples. It was floored and wainscotted with cedar of Lebanon (1 Kings 6:16), and its walls and floor were overlaid with gold (6:20, 21, 30) amounting to 600 talents (2 Chr. 3:8) or roughly 20 metric tons. It contained two cherubim of olive-wood, each 10 cubits high (1 Kings 6:16, 20, 21, 23–28) and each having outspread wings of 10 cubits span, so that, since they stood side by side, the wings touched the wall on either side and met in the center of the room. There was a two-leaved door between it and the Holy Place overlaid with gold (2 Chr. 4:22); also a veil of tekhelet (blue), purple, and crimson and fine linen (2 Chronicles 3:14; compare Exodus 26:33). It had no windows (1 Kings 8:12) and was considered the dwelling-place of the \"name\" of God.\n\nThe \"Kodesh haKodashim\" (the Holy of Holies) was prepared to receive and house the Ark (1 Kings 6:19); and when the Temple was dedicated, the Ark, containing the original tablets of the Ten Commandments, was placed beneath the cherubim (1 Kings 8:6).\n\nThe \"Hekhal\", or Holy Place, (1 Kings 8:8–10), is also called the \"greater house\" (2 Chr. 3:5) and the \"temple\" (1 Kings 6:17); the word also means \"palace\", was of the same width and height as the Holy of Holies, but 40 cubits in length. Its walls were lined with cedar, on which were carved figures of cherubim, palm-trees, and open flowers, which were overlaid with gold. Chains of gold further marked it off from the Holy of Holies. The floor of the Temple was of fir-wood overlaid with gold. The door-posts, of olive-wood, supported folding-doors of fir. The doors of the Holy of Holies were of olive-wood. On both sets of doors were carved cherubim, palm-trees, and flowers, all being overlaid with gold (1 Kings 6:15 et seq.)\n\nThe noun \"hekhal\" (, borrowed from Sumerian 𒂍𒃲 (É.GAL) \"big house\") means \"a large building\". This can be either the main building of the Temple in Jerusalem (that is the nave, or sanctuary, of the Temple), or a palace such as the \"palace\" of Ahab, king of Samaria, or the \"palace\" of the King of Babylon.\n\nHekhal is used 80 times in the Masoretic Text of the Hebrew Bible. Of these, 70 refer to the House of the (in Hebrew Bible בֵּית יְהוָה \"beit Yahweh\"), the other 10 are references to palaces. There is no reference to any part of the tabernacle using this term in the Hebrew Bible.\n\nIn older English versions of the Bible, including the King James Version, the term \"temple\" is used to translate \"hekhal\". In modern versions more reflective of archaeological research, the distinction is made of different sections of the whole Temple. Scholars and archaeologists generally agree on the structure of Solomon's Temple as described in 1 Kings 6:3–5, with the main building, the \"hekhal\", in English now sometimes called \"the sanctuary\", the \"devir\", the inner sanctuary, and finally the Holy of Holies.\n\nThis main building was between the outer altar, where most sacrifices were performed, and inside at the far end was the entry to the Holy of Holies, originally containing the Ark of the Covenant. The main hekhal contained a number of sacred ritual objects including the seven branched candlestick, the inner altar for incense offerings (also called the \"Golden Altar\"), and the table of the showbread.\n\nThe same architectural layout of the temple was adopted in synagogues leading to the \"hekhal\" being applied in Sephardi usage to the Ashkenazi Torah ark, the equivalent of the nave.\n\nThe \"Ulam\", or porch, acted as an entrance before the Temple on the east (1 Kings 6:3; 2 Chr. 3:4; 9:7). This was 20 cubits long (corresponding to the width of the Temple) and 10 cubits deep (1 Kings 6:3). (ESV 2 Chr. 3:4) notes that this porch was 120 cubits high. The description does not specify whether a wall separated it from the next chamber. In the porch stood the two pillars Jachin and Boaz (1 Kings 7:21; 2 Kings 11:14; 23:3), which were 18 cubits in height.\n\nChambers were built around the Temple on the southern, western and northern sides (1 Kings 6:5–10). These formed a part of the building and were used for storage. They were probably one story high at first; two more may have been added later.\n\nAccording to the Bible, two courts surrounded the Temple. The Inner Court (1 Kings 6:36), or Court of the Priests (2 Chr. 4:9), was separated from the space beyond by a wall of three courses of hewn stone, surmounted by cedar beams (1 Kings 6:36). It contained the Altar of burnt-offering (2 Chr. 15:8), the Brazen Sea laver (4:2–5, 10) and ten other lavers (1 Kings 7:38, 39). A brazen altar stood before the Temple (2 Kings 16:14), its dimensions 20 cubits square and 10 cubits high (2 Chr. 4:1). The Great Court surrounded the whole Temple (2 Chr. 4:9). It was here that people assembled to worship. (Jeremiah 19:14; 26:2).\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, the Molten Sea or Brazen Sea ( \"cast metal sea\") was a large basin in the Temple for ablution of the priests. It is described in and . It stood in the south-eastern corner of the inner court. According to the Bible it was five cubits high, ten cubits in diameter from brim to brim, and thirty cubits in circumference. The brim was \"like the calyx of a lily\" and turned outward \"about an hand breadth\"; or about four inches. It was placed on the backs of twelve oxen, standing with their faces outward. The Book of Kings states that it contains 2,000 baths (90 cubic meters), while Chronicles (2 Chr. 4:5–6) states it can hold up to 3,000 baths (136 cubic meters) and states that its purpose was to afford opportunity for the purification by immersion of the bodies of the priests.\n\nThe fact that it was a wash basin which was too large to enter from above lends to the idea that water would likely have flowed from it down into a subcontainer beneath. The water was originally supplied by the Gibeonites, but was afterwards brought by a conduit from Solomon's Pools. The molten sea was made of brass or bronze, which Solomon had taken from the captured cities of Hadarezer, the king of Zobah (). Ahaz later removed this laver from the oxen, and placed it on a stone pavement (). It was destroyed by the Chaldeans ().\n\nThe lavers, each of which held \"forty baths\" (1 Kings 7:38), rested on portable holders made of bronze, provided with wheels, and ornamented with figures of lions, cherubim, and palm-trees. The author of the books of the Kings describes their minute details with great interest (1 Kings 7:27–37). Josephus reported that the vessels in the Temple were composed of orichalcum in \"Antiquities of the Jews\". According to 1 Kings 7:48 there stood before the Holy of Holies a golden Altar of Incense and a table for showbread. This table was of gold, as were also the five candlesticks on each side of it. The implements for the care of the candles–tongs, basins, snuffers, and fire-pans–were of gold; and so were the hinges of the doors.\n\n and recount the events of the temple's dedication. When the priests emerged from the holy of holies after placing the Ark there, the Temple was filled with an overpowering cloud which interrupted the dedication ceremony, \"for the glory of the Lord had filled the house of the Lord\" (1 Kings 8:10–11; 2 Chronicles 5:13, 14). Solomon interpreted the cloud as \"[proof] that his pious work was accepted\":\nThe allusion is to :\n\nSolomon then led the whole assembly of Israel in prayer, noting that the construction on the temple represented a fulfilment of God's promise to David, dedicating the temple as a place of prayer and reconciliation for the people of Israel and for foreigners living in Israel, and highlighting the paradox that God who lives in the heavens cannot really be contained within a single building. The dedication was concluded with sacrifices said to have included \"twenty-two thousand bulls and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep\".\n\nBecause of the religious and political sensitivities involved, no archaeological excavations and only limited surface surveys of the Temple Mount have been conducted since Charles Warren's expedition of 1867–70. There is no archaeological evidence for the existence of Solomon's Temple, and the building is not mentioned in surviving extra-biblical accounts. Israel Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman argue that the first Jewish temple in Jerusalem was not built until the end of the 7th century BCE, around three hundred years after Solomon. They believe the temple should not really be assigned to Solomon, who they see as little more than a small-time hill country chieftain, and argue that it was most likely built by Josiah, who governed Judah from 639 to 609 BCE.\n\n\nThere is archaeological and written evidence of three Israelite temples, either contemporary or of very close date, dedicated to Yahweh (Elephantine temple, probably Arad too), either in the Land of Israel or in Egypt. Two of them have the same general outline as given by the Bible for the Jerusalem Temple.\n\nRituals in Freemasonry refer to King Solomon and the building of his Temple. Masonic buildings, where Lodge members meet, are sometimes called 'temples'; an allegoric reference to King Solomon's Temple.\n\nKabbalah views the design of the Temple of Solomon as representative of the metaphysical world and the descending light of the creator through Sefirot of the Tree of Life. The levels of the outer, inner and priest's courts represent three lower worlds of Kabbalah. The Boaz and Jachin pillars at the entrance of the temple represent the active and passive elements of the world of Atziluth. The original menorah and its seven branches represent the seven lower Sephirot of the Tree of Life. The veil of the Holy of Holies and the inner part of the temple represent the Veil of the Abyss on the Tree of Life, behind which the Shekhinah or Divine Presence hovers.\n\nThe Temple in Jerusalem is mentioned in verse 7 of the surah Al-Isra in the Quran; commentators of Quran such as Muhammad al-Tahir ibn Ashur postulate that this verse refers specifically to the Temple of Solomon.\n\nSolomon's Temple appears in \"Solomon and Sheba\" (1959) and in the novel \"King Solomon's Mines\" (1885). It also appears in the video game \"Assassin's Creed\" where the main character Altaïr Ibn-La'Ahad deal with Robert de Sablé. It appears too on \"Assassin's Creed Unity\" (2014) where the Knight Templar Jacques de Molay is burned and died.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22755184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22755184", "title": "The BioLogos Foundation", "text": "The BioLogos Foundation\n\nThe BioLogos Foundation is a Christian advocacy group established by Francis Collins in 2007.\n\nFrancis Collins served as its president until he resigned on August 16, 2009 to become the 16th Director of the National Institutes of Health. The presidency was then assumed by Darrel Falk, succeeded in January 2013 by Deborah Haarsma .\n\nThe BioLogos Foundation has drawn criticism from both creationists and atheists. In response to a \"Time Magazine\" article about the foundation, Jerry Coyne, a professor of biology at the University of Chicago and secularist, calls the foundation the \"latest endeavor to forcibly marry science and faith\" and \"embarrassing in its single-minded fervor to prove that conservative Christianity and evolution are really good buddies.\"\n\nBioLogos has also received praise and positive responses. Supporters of The BioLogos Foundation include \"Washington Post\" columnist Kathleen Parker, who claims the Foundation's goal of \"helping fundamentalists evolve can only be good for civilization.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30873582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30873582", "title": "The Druid Network", "text": "The Druid Network\n\nThe Druid Network is a British druidic (neo-pagan) organisation providing a source of information and inspiration about modern Druidic traditions, practices and their histories. It was founded in February 2003 by Emma Restall Orr, a leading voice in British Druidry.\n\nThe Druid Network was created to act as an internet framework making tangible the spirit-web that is the global community of the Druid tradition and other natural philosophies and Paganisms. Like a sacred well, the Network aims to offer a blend of inspiration and information, yet not only from words presented as articles and ideas. In the spirit of the oral tradition of our ancestors and our heritage, the power of the Druid Network is in the encounters it enables between individuals, soul to soul, mind to mind : people walking together upon the same road.\n\nA major project of The Druid Network is called Honouring the Ancient Dead, a programme developed in cooperation with the Manchester Museum (U.K.) for the proper and dignified treatment of human remains at ancient archaeological sites in the United Kingdom. The programme has been reported on in \"British Archaeology\" (Issue 77, July 2004) and \"The New Statesman,\" (6 November 2006.)\n\nThe structure of the Network is based on Druidic and pagan tenets. It therefore claims no hierarchy, but for administrative purposes numerous categories of membership are constitutionally defined, as are lines of communication. The governing Committee consists of selected Staff Members, chosen by the previous Committee from all applicants.\n\nThe Network comprises working project areas on four continents as well as its British home: Europe, North America, South America, and Oceania. The Network does not, however, simply focus on members. They work for the wider Druid community and the world at large through teaching and programmes in areas of ethics, ecology, and spirituality. The website offers members and non-members alike a large variety of options for active engagement.\n\nThe heart of The Druid Network is the Druid Order of the Yew, a community of Druid Priests bound together by their pledges of Commitment to their Communities across the several continents of the Network.\n\nAcross the globe many Druid Groves and other Druidic organisations are affiliated with The Druid Network. The Druid Network Across North America is composed of sixteen Regions, most headed by Regional Coordinators. Its purpose is to assist Druid Groups and individuals in the practice of Druid spirituality, to seek to define what Druidry means in North America, and to identify and coordinate programs for social action and ethical awareness. Similar manifestations of the Network can be found in Spain, the Netherlands, France, Brazil, and Oceania.\n\nThe Druid Network organises the Lammas Games an annual bardic festival of sports, songs and storytelling. The Druid Network also has a collection of \"expressions\" of Druidry that contains services to aid its community with inspiration regarding current issues, environmental ideas, ethical living choices, a tradition named PaganDASH and a pagan prison minister service.\n\nIn September 2010, the Charity Commission for England and Wales agreed to register The Network as a charity. Right-wing tabloid columnist Melanie Phillips reacted by writing in the Daily Mail as the decision being \"a joke\". In response a 4,000 strong petition was taken to the newspaper and the press complaints commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "1410270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410270", "title": "Tzotzil", "text": "Tzotzil\n\nThe Tzotzil are an indigenous Maya people of the central Chiapas highlands in southern Mexico. As of 2000, they numbered about 298,000. The municipalities with largest Tzotzil population are Chamula (48,500), San Cristóbal de las Casas (30,700), and Zinacantan (24,300), in the Mexican state of Chiapas.\n\nThe Tzotzil language, like Tzeltal and Ch'ol, is descended from the proto-Ch'ol spoken in the late classic period at sites such as Palenque and Yaxchilan. The word \"tzotzil\" originally meant \"bat people\" or \"people of the bat\" in the Tzotzil language (from \"tzotz\" \"bat\"). Today the Tzotzil refer to their language as Bats'i k'op, which means \"true word\" in the modern language.\n\nHouses are built of wattle and daub or lumber, usually with thatched roofs. Traditional men's clothing consists of shirt, short pants, neckerchief, hat, and wool poncho. Traditional women's clothing is a blouse or long overdress (\"huipil\"), indigo dyed skirt (\"enredo\"), cotton sash, and shawl.\n\nBased on linguistic and archaeological data, scholars believe that the common ancestors of the contemporary Tzotzil and Tzeltal peoples entered Chiapas between 100 BCE and 300 CE. According to Spanish chronicles, just before the Spanish Conquest the Tzotzil exported quetzal feathers and amber to the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlán. They also produced salt from wells near Ixtapa and traded it throughout the Chiapas highlands, and continued to do so after the Conquest.\n\nThe Spanish conquerors met comparatively little resistance in Chiapas. In 1522, the Zinacantán lord Cuzcácuatl sought the Spaniards with an offer of allegiance, and his subjects afterwards helped Spanish commander Luis Marín to subdue neighboring tribes. On the other hand, the natives from Chamula fought hard against the Spaniards. They and the natives of Huixtlán eventually fled leaving nothing that the invaders could make use of. Unable to obtain service or tribute from those people, the Spaniards returned to the Gulf coast, and the Tzoltzil returned to their lands and lifestlyle. Other Spanish incursions in the following decade generally spared the Tzotzil, but their numbers were greatly diminished by diseases and hunger. Many villages were focibly relocated, and the natives were assigned as vassals to the \"encomiendas\" (land grants) given by the Spanish crown to the conquerors.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest, the Tzotzil were for centuries exploited as laborers, first by the Spaniards and then by the \"Ladinos\" (urban Spanish-speaking people of Spanish and native descent) who own most of the land and dominate commerce. During most of this period, a rigid caste system sharply divided the natives from the Ladinos, with very different rights and obligations. The oppression led them to revolt in 1528, 1712, and 1868. The situation of the Tzoltzil worsened considerably in 1863, when laws enacted by Benito Juárez stripped the Indian towns of their corporate lands, forcing many Zinacantecos to become debt-indentured laborers on farms owned by the Ladinos.\n\nThe sense of national pride has become stronger among the Tzotzil since 1940, as natives have increasingly began to occupy local administrative posts and used their cultural identity for political purposes. While sizable Tzotzil communities have appeared in some towns, other Tzotzil towns have been undergoing \"reindianization\" as the formerly dominating Ladino minorities have migrated to larger cities.\n\nWith the collapse of coffee prices in the 1980s, sustainable employment has been hard for many people in the highlands to find. As both population and foreign tourism have risen, the sale of artisan goods has replaced other economic activities. Tzotzils usually sell their products in the nearby cities of San Cristóbal de las Casas, Comitán, and Simojovel. Recently, and increasingly, many Maya from the highlands of Chiapas have found migration to other parts of Mexico and Illegal immigration to the United States a way to break away from subsistence farming and abysmal wages.\n\nIssues surrounding social integration persist, especially with the Ladinos. Support for the Zapatista movement, as well as for other non-violent opposition groups such as Las Abejas, is strong among the Tzotzil.\n\nA Spanish chronicler described Zinacantan as a pueblo with \"an infinite number of gods; they worshiped the sun and offered sacrifices to it, and to the full rivers, to the springs, to the trees of heavy foliage, and to the high hills they gave incense and gifts .. . their ancestors discovered a stone bat and considered it God and worshiped it\" (Ximenez 1929-1931, 360).\n\nThe Tzotzil conceive the World as a square, at whose center is the \"navel\", a mound of earth located in the ceremonial center. The world rests on the shoulders of the \"Vashak\", analogous to the Four-Corner Gods or Sky-Bearers of the ancient Maya. This cosmic model is reflected in the ceremonial circuits around houses and fields performed by priests, which proceed counterclockwise around the four corners and end in the center, where offerings are made to the gods. The Tzotzil Underworld inhabited by a race of dwarfs, created by the gods during their attempts to create mankind.\n\nThe Sun is \"Our Father Heat\", and the Moon is \"Our Holy Mother\". The planet Venus is called \"Sweeper of the Path\" as it precedes the Sun in his path around the World. Local hills and mountains lare the homes of the ancestral couples, the \"Totilme'il\" or \"Fathers-Mothers\", the most important Tzotzil gods. The next most important deity is the Earth Lord. In modern times, he is pictured as a large fat and rich Ladino living underground, who owns all land and its natural resources. A Tzotzil who uses any of those resources — water holes, trees, mud for his home, limestone for lime — is expected to compensate the Earth Lord with appropriate offerings in a ceremony.\n\nThe Tzotzil believe that each human being has two souls, a \"ch'ulel\" and a \"wayhel\". The \"ch'ulel\" is an inner, personal soul, located in the heart and blood, placed in the unborn embryo by the ancestral gods. It is composed of thirteen parts, and a person who loses one or more of these parts must have a curing ceremony performed by a shaman to recover them. \"Soul loss\" may be caused by fright of falling down or seeing a demon on a dark night; as a punishment by the ancestral gods for misbehavior; or by being sold into slavery to the Earth Lord, through evil witchcraft. At death, the inner soul leaves the body and goes to the \"Katibak\", the world of the dead in the center of the earth. There it will remain for the same length of time it had been in the human world, reliving his life in reverse, younger and younger, until it is assigned by the ancestral gods to another newborn of the opposite sex. Baptized infants and women who die in childbirth go directly to Winajel, located in the Sun. People who have drowned, have been murdered, or were struck by lightning do not go to Katibak. Animals and trees too have \"ch'ulel\" soul, which goes through the same cycle.\n\nThe other soul, the \"wayjel\", is an animal-spirit companion, shared with a \"chanul\", a wild animal. Throughout each person's life, whatever happens to the animal spirit also happens to the person and vice versa. These animal-spirit companions, consisting of jaguars, ocelots, coyotes, and smaller animals such as squirrels and opossums, are kept by the ancestral gods in four corrals inside the \"Senior Large Mountain\" in the east side of the world. If the animal spirit is let out of its corral by the ancestral gods, the person is in mortal danger and must undergo a lengthy ceremony to round up the \"chanul\" and return it to its corral. Only human beings have a \"wayhel\" soul.\n\nEach town is associated to a sacred mountain. The god Manojel-Tojel created humans by leading them out of the caves of the original hills. According to myth, each one of the patron-gods \"installed himself in a hill, by order of the gods of the four corners of the earth\".\n\nYahwal Balamil is a god who lives inside the earth. He rides a deer with serpent bridles, and frees the water-filled clouds from inside the earth through caves. He announces himself with the croaking of frogs\".\n\nIn the centuries since the Spanish conquest, under the influence of Catholicism, the Tzotzil have come to associate the Sun with God the Father or Jesus Christ and the Moon with the Virgin Mary. They also revere carved wooden or plaster images and pictures of Catholic saints, dressed in a mixture of colonial- Zinacanteco-style dresses.\n\nA small proportion of Tzotzils have converted to Islam.\n\nThe Tzotzil are commemorated in the scientific name of a species of Mexican pit viper, \"Cerrophidion tzotzilorum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13466204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13466204", "title": "Winti", "text": "Winti\n\nWinti is an Afro-Surinamese traditional religion that originated in South America and developed in the Dutch Empire; this resulted in the syncretization of the religious beliefs and practices of Akan and Fon slaves (with the gods such as Leba or Legba, Loko and Aisa or Ayizan) with Christianity. \n\nThe foundation of Winti based on three principles: the belief in the supreme creator called Anana Kedyaman Kedyanpon; the belief in a pantheon of spirits called \"Winti\"; and the veneration of the ancestors. There is also a belief in \"Ampuku\" (also known as \"Apuku\") which are anthropomorphic forest spirits. An Ampuku can possess people (both men and women) and can also pass itself off as another spirit. Ampuku can also be water spirits, and are known in such cases as \"Watra Ampuku\".\n\nWinti is described according to C. Wooding (a Winti expert) as:\n\n\"...an Afro American religion, within which the belief in personified supernatural beings occupies a central position. These personified supernatural beings can take possession of a human person, switch off their consciousness, as it were, and thereby reveal things concerning the past, present and future as well as cause and/or heal illnesses of a supernatural nature.\"\n\nAnother Winti expert (H.J.M. Stephen, 1985) describes Winti as:\n\n\"...primarily a religion, which means that respect for the divine, worship and prayer are central. In addition, it has a strong magical aspect, which often has been emphasized too one-sidedly and unfairly. Magic involves the influence of earthly events by supernatural means.\"\n\nDuring slavery, members of various West African tribes were brought to Suriname. They came from kingdoms that had certain religious aspects in common, like the belief in a supreme creator God who lives far away from the people, leaving the world to gods or spirits who are less powerful than him, and the belief in an immortal human soul and the related ancestor worship.\n\nAfter the abolition of slavery in 1863, a ten-year period of economic slavery followed known as 'De Periode van Staatstoezicht' (the period of State Supervision). The period of state supervision ended in 1873 and was followed by a very long period of mental and cultural slavery. The former slaves and their descendants were forced to convert to Christianity and for nearly 100 years (1874–1971) practicing Winti was forbidden by law. They were also forced to speak Dutch, education in their own language 'Sranan Tongo' was forbidden, and children were not allowed to speak Sranan Tongo in schools.\n\nIt is believed that a human being has three spiritual aspects, the \"Dyodyo\", \"Kra\", and \"Yorka\". Through these aspects human beings are integrated into the supernatural world. The \"Dyodyo\" are the supernatural parents who protect their children and may be higher or lower spirits. They received the pure soul, the \"Kra\", from Anana and give that to a child. The \"Kra\" and \"Dyodyo\" determine your reason and mentality, while the biological parents provide blood and the physical body. \"Yorka\", the other spiritual part, absorbs the life experiences. After the death of the physical body, the \"Kra\" goes back to the \"Dyodyo\" and the \"Yorka\" goes to the realm of the dead.\n\nThere are four Pantheons or groups.\n\nCertain groups of maroons also distinguish a fifth pantheon, the realm of the death.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
