{"id": "40755353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40755353", "title": "1951 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference", "text": "1951 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference\n\nThe 1951 Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference was the fifth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the British Commonwealth. It was held in the United Kingdom in January 1951, and was hosted by that country's Prime Minister, Clement Attlee.\n\nThe principal topic of the conference was the Korean War with the summit issuing a declaration, proposed by Australian prime minister Robert Menzies, stating that the Commonwealth prime ministers \"would welcome any feasible arrangement for a frank exchange of views with Stalin and Mao Tse-tung.\" The Commonwealth leaders also called for peace treaty negotiations with Japan to be concluded as soon as possible (see Treaty of San Francisco).\n"}
{"id": "29459046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29459046", "title": "Angela D. Friederici", "text": "Angela D. Friederici\n\nAngela Friederici (born 1952 in Cologne, Germany) is a director at the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences in Leipzig, Germany, and is an internationally recognized expert in neuropsychology and linguistics. She is the author of over 360 academic articles and book chapters, and has edited 15 books on linguistics, neuroscience, language and psychology.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1976 Angela Friederici studied linguistics at the University of Bonn (Germany) and the University of Lausanne (Switzerland), graduating with Ph.D. in linguistics in 1976. In 1975 she also began studying psychology at the University of Bonn and graduated with a degree in psychology (German: Dipl.-Psych.) in 1980. In 1986 she completed her professorial degree (Habilitation) at the University of Giessen.\nAfter a post-doctoral scholarship at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and work as a research fellow in the Netherlands and France, Angela Friederici was awarded a professorship in cognitive psychology by the Free University of Berlin in 1989. In 1994 she became a Founding Director and Scientific Member of the Max Planck Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience in Leipzig, which became the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences in 2004.\n\nFriederici also holds honorary professorships (Honorarprofessor) from the University of Leipzig (since 1995) for cognitive psychology, the University of Potsdam for Linguistics in the Faculty of Philosophy (since 1997) and for Medicine at the Charité, Humboldt-University Berlin (since 2004).\n\nFriederici's research centres on how the human brain processes language, examining both first and second language acquisition and use. She was the first to report the early left anterior negativity (ELAN), an EEG response to syntactic violations in sentences.\n\n\nShe is a member of the Editorial or Scientific Advisory Boards of: Brain and Cognition (Action Editor), Brain and Language, Cognitive Neuroscience (Action Editor), Cognitive Science Quarterly, Gehirn & Geist, Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, Journal of Memory and Language, Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, Neurolinguistik, Physiological Reviews, Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, Studies in Theoretical Psycholinguistics, The Mental Lexicon, Trends in Cognitive Sciences\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3078212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3078212", "title": "Ballycorus Leadmines", "text": "Ballycorus Leadmines\n\nBallycorus () leadmines is a former lead mining and smelting centre located in the townland of the same name, near Kilternan in County Dublin, Ireland. The mine opened around 1807 and was taken over by the Mining Company of Ireland (MCI) in 1826 who owned and operated the site up until closure in 1913. After the mine was exhausted in the 1860s, Ballycorus continued to operate as a smelting facility receiving ore from other MCI sites such as the mines in Glendalough, County Wicklow. The most distinctive surviving remnant of the site is the ruin of the flue chimney that lies close to the summit of Carrickgollogan hill. Further down the slopes of the hill, many other former buildings and structures from the leadworks can also be found.\n\nOpen-cast mining began at Ballycorus around 1807 on the western side of Carrickgollogan hill, close to the later site of the flue chimney. The site was taken over by the Mining Company of Ireland (MCI) in 1826 who undertook underground mining in the area up until 1863. This activity was carried out on an intermittent basis on account of the discontinuous nature of the vein and depending on lead prices. A vein of silver was discovered in 1843 but production was limited.\n\nMost of the activity at Ballycorus occurred at the smelting and rolling facility constructed by MCI in the valley below the mine workings. This facility received ore not only from Ballycorus but also from MCI's mine at Luganure, in Glendalough, County Wicklow for processing. The ore from Luganure was carried by horse and cart to the railway station at Rathdrum where it was transferred to a train and brought to Shankill. A siding on the Harcourt Street railway line was built near Shankill station to receive the trains. From Shankill the ore was carted to Ballycorus. Lead ore was also received from MCI mines in counties Donegal and Wexford. By the 1880s it was no longer commercially viable to process Irish ores and the smelter was put to work processing ore from the Great Laxey mine in the Isle of Man up until closure in 1913.\nThe lead ore was processed using a reverberatory furnace, the bed of which was dished so that the molten lead would trickle down the sides to the centre from which it was run off into moulds. Silver was also extracted during processing by means of a process known as cupellation. The lead, which was used to manufacture pipes and roofing, found a ready market in the Dublin building trade as the city's suburbs began to expand. Lead shot was also manufactured: the first shot tower was built in 1829 and was described by Weston St. John Joyce in \"The Neighbourhood of Dublin\" (1912) as “a handsome and substantial structure, having a spiral stairs within, terminating in an artistic iron veranda on the outside”. A second shot tower was built in 1857. A mill stream was used to power much of the machinery in the smelter.\n\nA process had been discovered in the 1770s whereby additional quantities of lead could be extracted from the fumes emitted by reverberatory furnaces if the vapours could be trapped long enough to precipitate the lead. To this end a flue long running from the lead works and terminating at a chimney near the summit of Carrickgollogan was constructed in 1836. The precipitated lead deposits were scraped out of the flue by hand and many of the workers subsequently died of lead poisoning, giving the surrounding area the nickname “Death Valley”. The distinctive granite flue chimney with its external spiral staircase and viewing platform quickly became a noted landmark and was marked on Admiralty charts as a point of reference for mariners. Photographic records show that the flue chimney was originally much taller with an extra brick section, now dismantled, rising above the viewing platform. It is the only example of such a flue and chimney to have been built in Ireland. Weston St. John Joyce noted that the flue was “stated to be one of the best constructed in the United Kingdom”.\n\nThe most prominent surviving remnant of the leadworks is that of the flue chimney. The land around the chimney is owned by the State forestry company Coillte and managed by the Dublin Mountains Partnership. A waymarked walking trail around the forest, called “The Lead Mines Way”, leads to the ruin of the chimney. The top third of the chimney has been removed as it was deemed unsafe as has the lower section of the external stairs. Much of the flue, along with many of its inspection hatches still exists and can be explored. In addition, a number of buildings from the smelting works situated in the valley below also survive to the present day. These industrial buildings, all built from granite, include furnaces, purification tanks, lime kilns, stores, workers' cottages and the manager's house. Many of these buildings are now private residences while the smelter site itself is now a solvent factory. The 1857 shot tower is also still extant. However, the 1829 shot tower admired by Joyce no longer survives. The former mill pond is now part of a concrete plant.\n\nA joint investigation in 2009 by the Environmental Protection Agency and the Geological Survey of Ireland into the potential risk posed by historic mines sites in Ireland into human and animal health found high concentrations of lead waste at Ballycorus. The report graded the site as Class IV: a site “requiring specific monitoring on particular waste piles, discharges or stream sediments on a five-yearly basis”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19271682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19271682", "title": "Bryntail lead mine", "text": "Bryntail lead mine\n\nBryntail lead mine is a disused lead mine near Llanidloes in Powys, Wales. It is in the care of Cadw. \n\nThere were three main shafts, Murray's, Gundry's and Western shaft. The majority of the scheduled buildings on the site are associated with Gundry's shaft, including a barytes mill, two crushing houses, ore bins, roasting ovens and water tanks. On the eastern dressing floor are jigger box placements, three buddles, two more ore bins and washing and picking floors. Other mine buildings include the manager's office, smithy, store buildings and a circular magazine, as well as the miners' footbridge.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "21611892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21611892", "title": "Church of Nossa Senhora da Conceição da Muxima", "text": "Church of Nossa Senhora da Conceição da Muxima\n\nThe Church of Our lady of Muxima (in Portuguese, \"Igreja da Nossa Senhora da Conceição da Muxima\") is located in the Muxirna District of Bengo Province, western Angola. \n\nThe 16th century Portuguese Colonial style church was an important center in the Portuguese slave trade in Angola.\n\nThe church stands on the left bank of the Kwanza River, and is a contemporary of the Fortress of C`Muxima' 7. The village of Muxirna was occupied by the Portuguese in 1589 and ten years later (1599), the Fortress was founded and the church was built with a prayer invoking divine blessing from \"Nossa Senhora da Muxirna\". \n\nMuxima was an important empire of slave traffic, protected by the Fortress, and the church played an important role in the materialization of the traffic, because it was in this religious local, where the slaves were baptized before being deported. \n\nIt is spacious and strong building, with a stern, typically Portuguese architecture, built above the Kwanza River. It was set on fire by the colonial Dutch in 1641, when they captured Muxima. Later, it was modified. \n\nThe sanctuary, with a Virgin image, has been a place of great devotion for Christian pilgrims for generations. \n\nIt was classified as National Monument by Portuguese Provincial Decree No. 2, on 12 January 1924. It is relatively in good order and belongs to the Roman Catholic Church. The responsibility for its maintenance and preservation concerns the Ministry of Culture. \nThis site was added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List on November 22, 1996 in the Cultural category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3641293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3641293", "title": "Contrastive analysis", "text": "Contrastive analysis\n\nContrastive analysis is the systematic study of a pair of languages with a view to identifying their structural differences and similarities. Historically it has been used to establish language genealogies.\n\nContrastive analysis was used extensively in the field of second language acquisition (SLA) in the 1960s and early 1970s, as a method of explaining why some features of a target language were more difficult to acquire than others. According to the behaviourist theories prevailing at the time, language learning was a question of habit formation, and this could be reinforced or impeded by existing habits. Therefore, the difficulty in mastering certain structures in a second language (L2) depended on the difference between the learners' mother language (L1) and the language they were trying to learn.\n\nThe theoretical foundations for what became known as the contrastive analysis hypothesis were formulated in Robert Lado's \"Linguistics Across Cultures\" (1957). In this book, Lado claimed that \"those elements which are similar to [the learner's] native language will be simple for him, and those elements that are different will be difficult\". While it was not a novel suggestion, Lado was the first to provide a comprehensive theoretical treatment and to suggest a systematic set of technical procedures for the contrastive study of languages. That involved describing the languages (using structuralist linguistics), comparing them and predicting learning difficulties.\n\nDuring the 1960s, there was a widespread enthusiasm with this technique, manifested in the contrastive descriptions of several European languages, many of which were sponsored by the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington, DC. It was expected that once the areas of potential difficulty had been mapped out through contrastive analysis, it would be possible to design language courses more efficiently. Contrastive analysis, along with behaviourism and structuralism exerted a profound effect on SLA curriculum design and language teacher education, and provided the theoretical pillars of the audio-lingual method.\n\nIn its strongest formulation, the contrastive analysis hypothesis claimed that all the errors made in learning the L2 could be attributed to 'interference' by the L1. However, this claim could not be sustained by empirical evidence that was accumulated in the mid- and late 1970s. It was soon pointed out that many errors predicted by Contrastive Analysis were inexplicably not observed in learners' language. Even more confusingly, some uniform errors were made by learners irrespective of their L1. It thus became clear that contrastive analysis could not predict all learning difficulties, but was certainly useful in the retrospective explanation of errors.\n\nIn response to the above criticisms, a moderate version of the Contrastive Analysis Hypothesis (CAH) has developed which paradoxically contradicts Lado's original claim. The new CAH hypothesizes that the more different the L2 is with one's L1, the easier it is for one to learn the target language. The prediction is based on the premise that similarities in languages create confusion for learners. \nWith the help of technological advancement, contrastive analysis has adopted a more efficient method in obtaining language data, a corpus-based approach, which generates vast amount of juxtapositions of language differences in various fields of linguistics, for example lexis and syntax.\n\nThere are multiple fields in the realms of linguistics to which Contrastive Analysis (CA) is applicable:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51121568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51121568", "title": "Days of Swiss Linguistics", "text": "Days of Swiss Linguistics\n\nThe Days of Swiss Linguistics (DSL) (German: Tage der Schweizer Linguistik (TSL), French: Journées de la linguistique suisses (JLS), Italian: Giornate della linguistica svizzere (GLS)) is a series of linguistics conferences held biennially at one of the Swiss universities on behalf of the Swiss Linguistics Society (SSG). It is an international conference for researchers from Switzerland, Europe and beyond. So far, 9 editions of the conference have been carried out.\n\n"}
{"id": "36078096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36078096", "title": "Diné College Press", "text": "Diné College Press\n\nDiné College Press (formerly \"Navajo Community College Press\") is the publishing division of Diné College, headquartered in Tsaile, Arizona, but whose territory spans throughout the Navajo Nation. \"Diné College Press\" has published books by and pertaining to Native Americans. While most titles focus on the issues of the Navajo people, others have dealt with broader issues pertaining to Native American studies. Authors include Acoma Pueblo poet and author Simon J. Ortiz and Pawnee-Otoe-Missouria author Anna Lee Walters.\n\nTitles published by the Diné College Press include the following.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1986548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1986548", "title": "Dying Gaul", "text": "Dying Gaul\n\nThe Dying Gaul, also called The Dying Galatian (in Italian: \"Galata Morente\") or The Dying Gladiator, is an Ancient Roman marble copy of a lost Hellenistic sculpture, thought to have been originally executed in bronze. The original may have been commissioned some time between 230 and 220 BC by Attalus I of Pergamon to celebrate his victory over the Galatians, the Celtic or Gaulish people of parts of Anatolia (modern Turkey). The identity of the sculptor of the original is unknown, but it has been suggested that Epigonus, a court sculptor of the Attalid dynasty of Pergamon, may have been the creator.\n\nThe copy was most commonly known as \"The Dying Gladiator\" until the 20th century on the assumption that it depicted a wounded gladiator in a Roman amphitheatre. Scholars had identified it as a Gaul or Galatian by the mid-19th century, but it took many decades for the new title to achieve popular acceptance.\n\nThe white marble statue which may have originally been painted depicts a wounded, slumping Celt with remarkable realism and pathos, particularly as regards the face. A bleeding sword puncture is visible in his lower right chest. The figure is represented as a Celtic warrior with characteristic hairstyle and moustache and has a torc around his neck. He lies on his fallen shield while his sword, belt, and a curved trumpet lie beside him. The sword hilt bears a lion head. The present base was added after its 17th-century rediscovery.\n\n\"The Dying Galatian\" is thought to have been rediscovered in the early 17th century during some excavations for the foundations of the Villa Ludovisi, then a suburban villa in Rome. It was first recorded in a 1623 inventory of the collections of the powerful Ludovisi family. The villa was built in the area of the ancient Gardens of Sallust where, when the Ludovisi property was built over in the late 19th century, many other antiquities were discovered, most notably the \"Ludovisi Throne\". By 1633 it was in the Ludovisi Palazzo Grande on the Pincio. Pope Clement XII acquired it for the Capitoline collections. It was then taken by Napoleon's forces under the terms of the Treaty of Tolentino, and displayed with other Italian works of art in the Louvre Museum until 1816, when it was returned to Rome.\n\nThe statue serves both as a reminder of the Celts' defeat, thus demonstrating the might of the people who defeated them, and a memorial to their bravery as worthy adversaries. The statue may also provide evidence to corroborate ancient accounts of the fighting style—Diodorus Siculus reported that \"Some of them have iron breastplates or chainmail while others fight naked\". Polybius wrote an evocative account of Galatian tactics against a Roman army at the Battle of Telamon of 225 BC:\n\nThe Roman historian Livy recorded that the Celts of Asia Minor fought naked and their wounds were plain to see on the whiteness of their bodies. The Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus regarded this as a foolish tactic:\n\nThe depiction of this particular Galatian as naked may also have been intended to lend him the dignity of heroic nudity or pathetic nudity. It was not infrequent for Greek warriors to be likewise depicted as heroic nudes, as exemplified by the pedimental sculptures of the Temple of Aphaea at Aegina. The message conveyed by the sculpture, as H. W. Janson comments, is that \"they knew how to die, barbarians that they were\".\n\nThe \"Dying Galatian\" became one of the most celebrated works to have survived from antiquity and was engraved and endlessly copied by artists, for whom it was a classic model for depiction of strong emotion, and by sculptors. It shows signs of having been repaired, with the head seemingly having been broken off at the neck, though it is unclear whether the repairs were carried out in Roman times or after the statue's 17th century rediscovery. As discovered, the proper left leg was in three pieces. They are now pinned together with the pin concealed by the left kneecap. The Gaul's \"spiky\" hair is a 17th-century reworking of longer hair found as broken upon discovery.\n\nDuring this period, the statue was widely interpreted as representing a defeated gladiator, rather than a Galatian warrior. Hence it was known as the 'Dying' or 'Wounded Gladiator', 'Roman Gladiator', and 'Murmillo Dying'. It has also been called the 'Dying Trumpeter', because one of the scattered objects lying beside the figure is a horn.\n\nThe artistic quality and expressive pathos of the statue aroused great admiration among the educated classes in the 17th and 18th centuries and was a \"must-see\" sight on the Grand Tour of Europe undertaken by young men of the day. Byron was one such visitor, commemorating the statue in his poem \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\":\n\nIt was widely copied, with kings, academics and wealthy landowners commissioning their own reproductions of the \"Dying Gaul\". Thomas Jefferson wanted the original or a reproduction at Monticello. The less well-off could purchase copies of the statue in miniature for use as ornaments and paperweights. Full-size plaster copies were also studied by art students.\n\nIt was requisitioned by Napoleon Bonaparte by terms of the Treaty of Campoformio (1797) during his and taken in triumph to Paris, where it was put on display. The piece was returned to Rome in 1816. From December 12, 2013 until March 16, 2014 the work was on display in the main rotunda of the west wing of the National Gallery of Art in Washington D.C.. This temporary tenure marked the first time the antiquity had left Italy since it was returned in the second decade of the nineteenth century.\n\nCopies of the statue (itself a copy) can be seen in the Museum of Classical Archaeology at Cambridge University, Leinster House in Dublin, Ireland, as well as in Berlin, Prague, Stockholm, Versailles, Warsaw (Royal Baths Park).\n\nIn the United States, copies are at the Washington State Historical Society in Tacoma, Washington, at the Redwood Library, Newport, Rhode Island, and at Assumption College in Worcester, MA. \n\nA copy in bronze titled \"Centurion\" stands in front of the Mel Bailey Criminal Justice Center in Birmingham, Alabama, as a memorial to the lives of fallen police officers; this copy wears a pteruges but is otherwise identical.\n\nThe Royal Academy in London had one such copy, now at the Courtauld Gallery in London. It also had an écorché in this pose, cast in the late 18th century from the body of an executed smuggler and hence nicknamed \"Smugglerius\".\n\nThere is an example in bronze over the gate of the walled garden at Iford Manor, Wiltshire, England. In the English market town of Brigg in Lincolnshire, the long established coaching inn \"The Dying Gladiator\" displays a copy, using the old title.\n\nThe College of Fine Arts in the University of the Philippines Diliman also has a copy, using the old title. There is also a copy at the Hermitage Museum in St Petersburg, Russia. and one in the Telfair Museum of Art Savannah, Georgia\n\nThe Museum of Art and Circus Museum, Ringling Brother Estate, Sarasota, Florida has a full-size copy.\n\nThe William Humphreys Art Gallery in South Africa, situated in Kimberley also has a copy.\n\n"}
{"id": "8563373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8563373", "title": "Edgar Lee Hewett", "text": "Edgar Lee Hewett\n\nEdgar Lee Hewett (November 23, 1865 – December 31, 1946) was an American archaeologist and anthropologist whose focus was the Native American communities of New Mexico and the southwestern United States. He is best known for his role in gaining passage of the Antiquities Act, a pioneering piece of legislation for the conservation movement; as the founder and first director of the Museum of New Mexico; and as the first president of the New Mexico Normal School, now New Mexico Highlands University.\n\nHewett's dealings with Maria Martinez, the great potter of San Ildefonso Pueblo, were instrumental in establishing San Ildefonso as a center for Native American pottery. He helped stimulate the rebirth of pottery as a significant folk art form in the region.\n\nHewett also had a significant role in the formation of Bandelier National Monument and Chaco Culture National Historical Park, established to preserve extensive prehistoric ruins of the Pueblo people whom he studied. The Antiquities Act, which he had worked on, authorized the establishment by the executive branch of such national monuments.\n\nHewett was born in Warren County, Illinois, on November 23, 1865. He was educated at Tarkio College in Missouri and thereafter settled in Florence, Colorado, as a member of the school system. He eventually became superintendent of the Florence schools. In 1894 he became a member of the faculty of the Colorado State Normal School in Greeley, Colorado (today the University of Northern Colorado), where he received a master's degree in 1893.\n\nHewett's 1891 marriage to Cora Whitford proved eventful for his eventual career and prominence. Cora was described in contemporary accounts as \"frail\" -- frequently (and almost certainly in this case) a euphemism for a person suffering tuberculosis -- and at her doctors' advice, the Hewetts started to spend time in the warmer climate of northern New Mexico. Tuberculosis was considered incurable as antibiotics had not been discovered. As a result, Edgar Hewett was exposed to, and became fascinated by, the prehistoric ruins in Frijoles Canyon near Santa Fe -- a site that would eventually become the centerpiece attraction of Bandelier National Monument.\n\nHewett's interest in Frijoles Canyon was timely, for ethnologist Adolph Bandelier had just started to describe, through both scientific papers and his novel \"The Delight Makers\" (1890), prehistoric life on the Pajarito Plateau. Hewett came to know Bandelier and consider him his mentor in his own studies. By 1896 Hewett himself was conducting field work on the Plateau, although he continued to defer to Bandelier's expertise on the region for many years.\n\nHewett rapidly came to believe that the Plateau's archaeological sites constituted a national resource that should be preserved, and in the 1890s he advocated creation of a \"Pajarito National Park\" that would protect essentially the entire Plateau. However, the time was not yet ripe for such a step. Contemporary agriculture on the Plateau was not exactly widespread, but such as it was, the ranchers relied upon it for sustenance, and perceived a threat to their economic well-being if the land was put off limits to ranching and farming. (Many years later, Valles Caldera National Preserve was established in the adjoining Jemez Mountains with language that explicitly mandated promoting the economic interests of the region in terms of agriculture and forestry.) These pressures, combined with opposition from Santa Clara Pueblo, prevented Pajarito National Park from being approved at that time. \n\nIn 1893 the New Mexico territorial legislature, anticipating the day when the Territory would achieve statehood, authorized the founding of a normal school at Las Vegas, New Mexico. The New Mexico Normal School, as it was originally called (renamed New Mexico Normal University in 1902, later becoming New Mexico Highlands University as it is today), took some time to form, but was ready for its first class of students in 1898. By this time Hewett had achieved a modicum of fame, at least locally, and had become friendly with some of the power brokers who were behind the creation of the Normal School. He was appointed in 1897 as the first president of the New Mexico Normal School.\n\nHewett's time at the head of the Normal School can be viewed as generally successful. The college was organized along conventional lines for normal colleges, and commenced with several areas of pedagogy directed to the production of degreed teachers, who were needed by the state-to-be. The enrollment increased rapidly and for a time exceeded that of the University of New Mexico in Albuquerque. However, Hewett fell afoul of some of the powerful figures of the region who disagreed with his increasingly vocal position that the archaeological resources of New Mexico Territory required preservation. He was also criticized for an \"unconventional\" approach to pedagogy—a euphemism for his enthusiasm for taking students into the field (at the Pajarito Plateau) at summer camps, a highly innovative practice at the time and one that reinforced the concerns that his critics had about his enthusiasm for preserving the sites there. Particularly contentious was the fact that he included women in his field camps. By early 1903 he was pressured out of the president's office. Hewett is the namesake for buildings at today's New Mexico Highlands University.\n\nHewett's interest in the Pajarito Plateau intensified during his time at the Normal School. He enlisted students at the Normal School in the surveying of the Plateau, which gave him a basis for putting his studies there on a more scientific footing. He also learned the value of working \"the smoke-filled room\" to achieve support for his goals. This was one of the traits that set him apart from his contemporaries such as Richard Wetherill, and his skills contributed to the next phase of his career.\n\nUpon stepping down from his position at the Normal School, Hewett decided that he needed to improve his academic credentials in order to advance. He earned a doctorate in anthropology from the University of Geneva in 1904. He spent little time in residence at the university, developing his dissertation mainly by collating a number of papers which he had written previously (a practice that, in the eyes of Hewett's many critics, would characterize and compromise much of his later writing as well) and having them translated into the required French. The resulting dissertation, bearing the title \"Les Communautés anciennes dans le desert Americain\", was favorably received, and sufficed to earn Hewett his degree despite his inability to defend it in the customary French.\n\nMeanwhile, the political landscape that had prevented the creation of the Pajarito National Park was starting to change. John F. Lacey, a congressman from Iowa, had visited northern New Mexico in 1902 to see the effects of pot hunting on ancient sites, and had enlisted Hewett as a guide. He was so impressed that he retained Hewett to report to Congress on the archaeological resources of the region.\n\nBy this time Hewett had become more adept at working the political system, and his skills were starting to show some results, frictions at the Normal School notwithstanding. He had traveled to Washington, D.C. in 1900 (no small journey at the time) and befriended the prominent anthropologist Alice Cunningham Fletcher among others. In 1902, he wrote a pointed complaint about the pot-hunting practices, which he believed were destroying resources at Chaco Canyon. Wetherill and the Hyde Expedition were forbidden to excavate there. \n\nThis set the stage for Hewett to deliver a truly influential report to Congress—and he delivered. On September 3, 1904, freshly back from Geneva, Hewett submitted to the General Land Office (GLO), which at this time had jurisdiction over government lands in the Southwest, a \"Memorandum concerning the historic and prehistoric ruins of Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado, and Utah, and their preservation.\" This report rapidly made its way to Congress and Lacey, who was moved by Hewett's declaration in the Memorandum that \"it will be a lasting reproach upon our Government if it does not use its power to restrain\" the destruction of the ruins.\n\nHewett spent most of late 1904 and 1905 shuttling between Washington and New Mexico, helping Lacey with a nascent Act of Congress at the one and continuing his archaeological fieldwork at the other. This was a time of personal misfortune for him, however, as Cora Hewett's illness had become terminal. While in Geneva, she had to use a wheelchair much of the time; after their return to the United States, she entered a sanatorium in Santa Fe, New Mexico for a time. She died in the fall of 1905. Hewett kept on working.\n\nThe result was the Antiquities Act of 1906, a towering piece of American legislation by any standards. As a result of the Antiquities Act, it was now no longer necessary for Congress to authorize permanent withdrawal of land for the purpose of preservation of cultural or other resources; a presidential proclamation would now suffice. This apparent short-circuiting of separation of powers was controversial at the time, and has remained so for the 100 years since its passage, but Lacey's experienced hand guided the bill through Congress, meeting the objections of its critics and propelling it toward passage and presidential signature. President Theodore Roosevelt signed the Antiquities Act into law on June 8, 1906, and Hewett's place in the history of the conservation movement was secured. Ironically, Roosevelt's first use of the Antiquities Act was \"not\" to protect one of the ruins that Hewett had made his life's passion, but rather to establish Devil's Tower National Monument in Wyoming, a site of more geological and scenic interest than archaeological significance. However, the Act would soon be put, repeatedly and vigorously, to its (or at least Hewett's) intended purpose.\n\nThe first archaeological site to be preserved under the Antiquities Act was the Arizona complex that would become the centerpiece of the eponymous Montezuma Castle National Monument. Hewett knew of Montezuma Castle from his work inventorying the Southwest for the GLO and Lacey, and he knew that it was not only archaeologically significant but also imperiled by aggressive pot hunting (sometimes using dynamite to knock down walls so that rooms within could be excavated). Hewett lent his support to the creation of this national monument, which came into being in 1907.\n\nMontezuma Castle was a relatively uncontroversial site, being small, remote, and not heavily (or at least profitably) exploited by either the pot hunters or agriculture in the vicinity, some temporary \"de facto\" restrictions on the pot hunting having already come into being before the monument was created. It was therefore a good test case for Hewett's vision as embodied in the Antiquities Act, and creation of the national monument caused comparatively few complaints. Another site closer to home that Hewett had studied, at today's Gila Cliff Dwellings National Monument in southwestern New Mexico, would soon follow, and by the end of 1907, Chaco Canyon itself had been made a national monument, thus preserving the most extensive site of ruins of the Pueblo culture. However, Hewett was not satisfied; he had his eye on other extensive and significant candidates for preservation, notably his long-time favorites on the Pajarito Plateau, that promised to be more controversial. He therefore turned his attention to the problems of getting these sites preserved, as the number of national monuments created under the Antiquities Act began to climb.\n\nIn 1907 the Archaeological Institute of America gave Hewett an additional platform, by establishing the School of American Archaeology, later the School of American Research, in Santa Fe. Hewett's friend Alice Fletcher, by then the doyenne of American archaeology, was one of the prime backers of the School; Hewett became its first director, a position he would hold until his death in 1946. The School would provide Hewett not only with a mouthpiece, but also a base for his increasingly professional (if still controversial) research activities and students and collaborators to do the work.\n\nThe process of preserving the sites of the Pajarito Plateau proved difficult and time-consuming, partly because interactions among the affected parties were complex, and partly because when Roosevelt passed the reins of government to William Howard Taft, enthusiasm in the White House for preserving such sites was diminished. Another factor had to do with Hewett's own personality. He had many supporters, but also many critics, and some of the latter complained that his real goal was to ensure that \"he\", Edgar L. Hewett, D.Sc., Director of the School of American Research, would have access to, and control of, the Plateau's sites—while his rivals would not. Negotiations over a new monument were long and contentious, but finally, on February 11, 1916, President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed the new Bandelier National Monument, naming it for Adolph Bandelier who had died recently. The monument was rather smaller than Hewett had hoped, covering only Frijoles Canyon, some comparatively empty land to the southwest, and an outlier (now Tsankawi), and omitting among others the very significant Puye Cliff Dwellings near Santa Clara Pueblo. However, even the most ardent preservationists had to admit that, from the standpoint of protecting Puebloan sites, Bandelier was much better than nothing.\n\nHewett continued to take an interest in the Pajarito Plateau and its environs, not merely from an archaeological perspective but also from a contemporary one. Many of the Plateau's excavations contained intriguing fragments, and sometimes intact pieces, of pottery, some of it of considerable beauty. Pottery of a more \"modern\" nature was produced at some of the pueblos of the region in the first part of the 20th century, but it was intended for the tourist trade, and had little to do with the pottery of antiquity. The artifacts found during the excavations provided evidence that the Native Americans of the region could do better at making pottery.\n\nShortly after the first World War, an opportunity arose to revive the high-quality work of antiquity, driven as much by Hewett's curiosity about the potters of the past as anything else. He made the acquaintance of a potter at San Ildefonso Pueblo named Maria Martinez -- a name that would become a watchword in Native American art. Hewett set Maria and her husband Julian, at that point proficient artisans in a polychrome style of pottery common at San Ildefonso, the task of trying to reproduce the colors and textures seen in the ancestral work of Frijoles Canyon and its vicinity. Almost serendipitously, the Martinezes developed a \"black-on-black\" style that not only evoked the ancient work but also produced pieces attractive to the modern collector. Hewett, in conjunction with the eccentric entrepreneurs and philanthropists Vera von Blumenthal and Rose Dougan, detected in this pottery a commercial opportunity that the puebleños would go on to develop into a major and economically significant cottage industry in the region. The Santa Fe Indian Market, probably the world's leading exposition for Native American art, has an economic impact on northern New Mexico estimated at nearly $20,000,000 annually. San Ildefonso (and Santa Clara) black-on-black pottery, some of it by descendants of Maria and Julian Martinez, features prominently to this day among the \"Best of Show\" award winners at the Market, as well as more pedestrian but still high-quality work that has far transcended the tourist trinkets that were being produced in the pueblos at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nThe School of American Archaeology (later School of American Research, and now the School for Advanced Research, or SAR) lost little time in establishing itself not merely as a platform for its director, but also as a center for the development of professional archaeologists. Its first professional papers were published the year it opened. Neil Judd, Alfred V. Kidder, Sylvanus Morley, and Earl Morris were among the prominent archaeologists who spent time there, Judd and Kidder in particular contributing to the excavations of many of the same sites that had interested Hewett.\n\nThese educational successes aside, Hewett's appointment at the School ruffled feathers among the old school of American archaeology, which was largely centered on the East Coast and took a decidedly condescending stance toward the \"amateur\" Hewett, Alice Fletcher's backing notwithstanding. One of his most vocal critics was Franz Boas, who had started the first archaeology PhD program in the United States at Columbia University in New York. Boas and several of his colleagues wanted to control the School and the education it afforded its students, and to have the \"incompetent\" Hewett sacked. Local pressures sufficed to keep him in the job, and eventually Boas and colleagues were placated through formation of a similar institute in Mexico City.\n\nIn 1909 another action of the territorial legislature created the Museum of New Mexico. Hewett was a logical choice to be its first director, and was installed in the position. The enabling legislation mandated that the Museum be managed by the SAR, helping to solidify Hewett's grasp on both positions. Hewett staffed the Museum's administrative functions with several of his friends and supporters from the Normal School days, and persuaded Alice Fletcher to take a key advisory role as well. This of course exposed him to complaints from his critics about cronyism, but ensured that he at least had a stable power base within the institution. The Museum was empowered by the legislature to acquire land containing some key archaeological sites in the state that were not yet protected by the Antiquities Act, and under Hewett, it did so.\n\nHewett was able to commingle public (Museum) and private (SAR) resources as he saw fit, but the arrangement was a matter of concern and in 1959 the two institutions were forced to separate. Today, the Museum of New Mexico is a subdivision of the New Mexico Department of Cultural Affairs.\n\nHewett remarried in 1911, to Donizetta Jones Wood, who would survive him. During this period he continued to do field work, his growing reputation ensuring that he would be invited to join expeditions ranging far beyond the Southwest. He also continued his politicking; not satisfied with Bandelier National Monument (even though it expanded beyond the land in the original proclamation), he continued to lobby for creation of a Pajarito National Park. Nothing came of this advocacy, however.\n\nAs time passed, Hewett's academic credentials came to be more recognized, and he spent time and effort building academic archaeology in the western United States. He organized archaeology and anthropology departments at the University of New Mexico and University of Southern California. The UNM department, where Hewett spent much of the latter part of his life, would eventually become one of the world's best known. While at UNM, Hewett founded the Museum of Anthropology of the University of New Mexico, which would later become the Maxwell Museum of Anthropology.\n\nHis collaborations with other archaeologists also increased with the passage of time. By 1910 he was collaborating with the Smithsonian Institution on work in Frijoles Canyon; Neil Judd was one of the students there. By 1915 he was director of exhibits for the Panama-California Exposition in San Diego, responsible for assembling the central exhibit \"The Story of Man through the Ages\". This led in turn to his assuming directorship of the San Diego Museum of Man, which was created as a permanent institution from the exposition's collections established by Hewett. This museum survives today as one of the institutions in San Diego's Balboa Park district.\n\nHewett's increasing ties to university life exposed him to the \"publish or perish\" mindset of academia, and here the results were less flattering to Hewett than many of his earlier activities. Much of his later work, or at least his publications, became somewhat repetitive. His 1943 book \"Ancient Life in the American Southwest\", cited below, amounts to a rehashing of a lifetime of archaeology without contributing anything new, and most of it could have been written at least 20 years earlier. Its tone also strikes the modern reader as annoyingly patronizing to (yet still respectful of) the people he studied, but Hewett was, after all, a product of his times.\n\nHewett continued to work as a field archaeologist practically until his death. However, by the 1930s his basically romantic approach to field work was looking like more and more of an anachronism. His responsibilities at the University of New Mexico grew less demanding (and conspicuous) over time, although he retained directorship of the Chaco Canyon field school, a particular favorite of his, until 1937. He continued in his roles at the SAR and the Museum of New Mexico until the last year of his life, chairing the joint meeting of the managing board in August 1946.\n\nEdgar Lee Hewett died on December 31, 1946. His ashes are interred at the New Mexico Museum of Art in Santa Fe, one of the units of the Museum of New Mexico that he helped create, next to those of his long-time friend and supporter Alice Fletcher.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33102631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33102631", "title": "Experimental phonetics", "text": "Experimental phonetics\n\nExperimental phonetics is the branch of general phonetics that deals with the study of the sounds and other human speech units by applying the experimental method. This scientific field covers basic areas of phonetics - articulatory phonetics, acoustic phonetics and auditory phonetics. Moreover, experimental method used in study of the segmental phonetics and suprasegmental phonetics, in exploration of the typological phonetics.\nExperimental phonetics is used to test theories or hypotheses in order to support or disprove them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46198562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46198562", "title": "Expression (architecture)", "text": "Expression (architecture)\n\nExpression (Lat. expressio) in architecture implies a clear and authentic displaying of the character or personality of an individual (architect). The expression is often identified with the architectural movement of expressionism, whose main starting point and aim is to present and express what has been „seen“ or experienced in the inner eye of the mind, heart and soul, i.e. to express the subjective moods and feelings without referring to conventional and „objective” values, judgments and truths. \n\nThe main problem in the critical analysis of the theoretical interpretations of the concept of expression in architecture, lies in the fact that the concept of expression is used in different ways in different fields of science and art. Regarding the concept of expression, the following interpretations can often be found:\nIn the widest sense, the concept of expression refers to the activity undertaken with a specific intention. However, what is the aim of expressing something will depend on the field in which the term is used.\n\nWith this is mind, some authors emphasize the unconscious or spontaneous character of expression, while others emphasize its cognitive aspect.\nExpression can also be defined as part of the communication process which consists of two complementary components, expression (transmitted information) and impression (received information).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10947484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10947484", "title": "Female slavery in the United States", "text": "Female slavery in the United States\n\nThe institution of slavery in North America existed from the earliest years of the colonial period until 1865 when the Thirteenth Amendment permanently abolished slavery throughout the entire United States. It was also abolished among the sovereign Indian tribes in Indian Territory by new peace treaties which the US required after the war.\n\nFor most of the seventeenth and part of the eighteenth centuries, male slaves outnumbered female slaves, making the two groups' experiences in the colonies distinct. Living and working in a wide range of circumstances and regions, African-American women and men encountered diverse experiences of enslavement. With increasing numbers of kidnapped African women, as well as those born into slavery in the colonies, slave sex ratios leveled out between 1730 and 1750. \"The uniqueness of the African-American female's situation is that she stands at the crossroads of two of the most well-developed ideologies in America, that regarding women and that regarding the Negro.\" Living both female and black identities, enslaved African women faced both racism and sexism.\n\nFrom 1700 to 1740 an estimated number of 43,000 slaves were imported into Virginia, and almost all but 4,000 were imported directly from Africa. Recent scholarship suggests that the number of women and men imported in this period was more or less equal and included a high number of children. As most were from West Africa, its cultures were central in mid- to late- eighteenth-century slave life in Virginia. African values were prevalent and West African women's cultures had strong representations. Some prevalent cultural representations were the deep and powerful bonds between mother and child, and among women within the larger female community. Among the Igbo ethnic group in particular (from present-day Nigeria), which comprised between one-third and one-half of incoming slaves in the early eighteenth century, female authority (the omu) \"ruled on a wide variety of issues of important to women in particular and the community as a whole.\" The Igbo represented one group of people brought to the Chesapeake, but in general, Africans came from an extremely diverse range of cultural backgrounds. All came from worlds where women's communities were strong, and were introduced into a patriarchal and violently racist and exploitative society; white men typically characterized all black women as passionately sexual, to justify their sexual abuse and miscegenation.\n\nVirginia girls, much less black girls, were not educated, and most were illiterate. African and African American female slaves occupied a broad range of positions. The southern colonies were majorly agrarian societies and enslaved women provided labor in the fields, planting and doing chores, but mostly in the domestic sphere, nursing, taking care of children, cooking, laundering, etc.\n\nHistorian Ira Berlin distinguished between \"slave societies\" and \"societies with slaves.\" New England was considered to be a society with slaves, dependent on maritime trade and diversified agriculture, in contrast to the slave societies of the south, which were \"socially, economically, and politically dependent on slave labor, had a large enslaved population, and allowed masters extensive power over their slaves unchecked by the law.\" New England had a small slave population and masters thought of themselves as patriarchs with the duty to protect, guide, and care for their slaves. Enslaved women in New England had greater opportunity to seek freedom than in other regions because of \"the New England legal system, the frequency of manumission by owners, and chances for hiring out, especially among enslaved men, who seized the opportunity to earn enough money to purchase a wife and children.\"\n\nEnslaved women largely occupied traditional \"women's work\" roles and were often hired out by the day. They worked mainly as maids, in the kitchen, the barn, and the garden. They did menial and servile tasks: polished family silver or furniture, helped with clothes and hair, drew baths, barbered the men, and completed menial domestic chores like sweeping, emptying chamber pots, carrying gallons of water a day, washing the dishes, brewing, looking after young children and the elderly, cooking and baking, milking the cows, feeding the chickens, spinning, knitting, carding, sewing, and laundering. Their daily work was less demanding than the field labor of enslaved women in other regions. Nonetheless enslaved women in New England worked hard, often under poor living conditions and malnutrition. \"As a result of heavy work, poor housing conditions, and inadequate diet, the average black woman did not live past forty.\"\n\nEnslaved women were given to white women as gifts from their husbands, and as wedding and Christmas gifts. The idea that New England masters treated their slaves with greater kindness in comparison to southern slave-owners is a myth. They had little mobility freedom and lacked access to education and any training. \"The record of slaves who were branded by their owners, had their ears nailed, fled, committed suicide, suffered the dissolution of their families, or were sold secretly to new owners in Barbados in the last days of the Revolutionary War before they become worthless seems sufficient to refute the myth of kindly masters. They lashed out at their slaves when they were angry, filled with rage, or had convenient access to horsewhip.\" Female slaves were sometimes forced by their masters into sexual relationships with enslaved men for the purpose of forced breeding. It was also not uncommon for enslaved women to be raped and in some cases impregnated by their masters.\n\nNo matter where they lived, slaves endured hard and demeaning lives, but labor in the southern colonies was most severe. The southern colonies were slave societies; they were \"socially, economically, and politically dependent on slave labor, had a large enslaved population, and allowed masters extensive power over their slaves unchecked by the law.\" Plantations were the economic power structure of the South, and male and female slave labor was its foundation. Early on, slaves in the South worked primarily in agriculture, on farms and plantations growing indigo, rice, and tobacco; cotton became a major crop after the 1790s. Female slaves worked in a wide variety of capacities. They were expected to do field work as well as have children, and in this way increase the slave population. In the years before the American Revolution, the female slave population grew mainly as a result of natural increase and not importation. \"Once slaveholders realized that the reproductive function of the female slave could yield a profit, the manipulation of procreative sexual relations became an integral part of the sexual exploitation of female slaves.\" Many slave women raised their children without much assistance from males. Enslaved women were counted on not only to do their house and field work, but also to bear, nourish, and rear the children whom slaveholders sought to continually replenish their labor force. As houseslaves, women were domestic servants: cooking, sewing, acting as maids, and rearing the planter's children. Later on they were used in many factories, instrumental in the development of the United States, where they were kept at lower maintenance costs.\n\nDuring the Revolutionary War (1775–83) enslaved women served on both sides, the Loyalist army as well as the Patriots', as nurses, laundresses, and cooks. But as historian Carol Berkin writes, \"African American loyalties were to their own future, not to Congress or to king.\" Enslaved women could be found in army camps and as camp followers. They worked building roads, constructing fortifications, and laundering uniforms, \"but they remained slaves rather than refugees. Masters usually hired these women out to the military, sometimes hiring out their children as well.\" Enslaved women could also be found working in the shops, homes, fields, and plantations of every American colony. It is estimated that by 1770, there were more than 47,000 enslaved blacks in the northern colonies, almost 20,000 of them in New York. More than 320,000 slaves worked in the Chesapeake colonies, making 37 percent of the population of the region African or African American. Over 187,000 of these slaves were in Virginia. In the Lower South there were more than 92,000 slaves. South Carolina alone had over 75,000 slaves, and by 1770 planters there were importing 4,000 Africans a year. In many counties in the Lower South, the slave population outnumbered the white.\n\nAlthough service in the military did not guarantee enslaved people their freedom, black men had the opportunity to escape slavery by enlisting in the army. During the disruption of war, both men and women ran away. Men were more likely to escape, as pregnant women, mothers, and women who nursed their elderly parents or friends seldom abandoned those who depended on them. So many slaves deserted their plantations in South Carolina, that there were not enough field hands to plant or harvest crops. As food grew scarce, the blacks who remained behind suffered from starvation or enemy attack. The British issued certificates of manumission to more than 914 women as reward for serving in the Loyalist army. But many women who had won their freedom lost it again \"through violence and trickery and the venality of men entrusted with their care.\" Others who managed to secure their freedom faced racial prejudice, discrimination, and poverty. When loyalist plantations were captured, enslaved women were often taken and sold for the soldiers' profit. The British did keep promises to black slaves, evacuating them along with troops in the closing days of the war, and resettling more than 3,000 Black Loyalists in Nova Scotia, and others in the Caribbean, and England. In 1792 it established Freetown, in what is now Sierra Leone, as a colony for Poor Blacks from London, as well as Black Loyalists from Canada who wanted to relocate.\n\nOne of the most well-known voices for freedom around the Revolutionary era was Phillis Wheatley of Massachusetts. She was a slave for most of her life but was given freedom by her master. Educated in Latin, Greek, and English, Wheatley wrote a collection of poems which asserted that Africans, as children of God just like Europeans, deserved respect and freedom.\n\nIn 1777, Vermont drafted a state constitution that prohibited the institution of slavery. In 1780 Massachusetts a state judge declared slavery to be unconstitutional according to the state's new bill of rights, which declared \"all men...free and equal.\" Slavery effectively ended in Massachusetts with this ruling in a freedom suit by Quock Walker. This led to an increase of enslaved men and women suing for their freedom in New England. Also in 1780 in Pennsylvania, the legislature enacted \"a gradual emancipation law that directly connected the ideals of the Revolution with the rights of the African Americans to freedom.\" In the South, the immediate legacy of the Revolution was increased manumission by slaveholders in the first two decades after the war. But, the invention of the cotton gin enabled widespread cultivation of short-staple cotton, and with the opening up of southwestern lands to cotton and sugar production, demand for slaves increased. Legislatures made emancipation difficult to gain, and they passed harsher laws regulating African-American lives.\n\nAs historian Deborah Gray White explains, \"Black in a white society, slave in a free society, woman in a society ruled by men, female slaves had the least formal power and were perhaps the most vulnerable group of Americans.\"\n\nThe mother-daughter relationship was often the most enduring and cherished within the African-American complex of relations. Relatively few women were runaways, and when they did run, they sometimes escaped with their children. Historian Martha Saxton writes about enslaved mothers' experiences in St. Louis in the antebellum period: \"In Marion County, north of St. Louis, a slave trader bought three small children from an owner, but the children's mother killed them all and herself rather than let them be taken away. A St. Louis trader took a crying baby from its mother, both on their way to be sold, and made a gift of it to a white woman standing nearby because its noise was bothering him.\" Another way these generational connections can be seen, is through song. Often songs about slavery and women's experiences during their enslavement were passed down through generations. African-American Women Work Songs are historical snapshots of lived experience and survival. Songs speak of families being torn apart and the emotional turmoil that enslaved women were put through by slavery. Songs add the legacy of oral tradition that fosters generational knowledge about historical periods. \nLittle girls as young as seven were frequently sold away from their mothers: \n\"Mary Bell was hired out by the year to take care of three children starting when she was seven. John Mullanphy noted that he had living with him a four-year-old mulatto girl, whom he willed to the Sisters of Charity in the event of his death. George Morton sold his daughter Ellen 'a certain Mulatto girl a slave about fourteen years of age named Sally, being the child of a certain Negro woman named Ann'.\" In 1854 Georgia was the first and only state to pass a law that put conditions of sales that separated mothers and their children. Children under five could not be sold away from their mothers, \"unless such division cannot in any wise be [e]ffected without such separation.'\"\nSlave girls in North America often worked within the domestic sphere, providing household help. White families sought the help of a \"girl\", an \"all-purpose tool\" in family life. Although the word \"girl\" applied to any working female without children, slaves were preferred because in the long run they cost less. These enslaved girls were usually very young, anywhere from nine years of age to their mid-teens. Heavy household work was assigned to the \"girl\" and was therefore stigmatized as \"negroes’\" work. A \"girl\" was an essential source of help to white families, rural and urban, middle class and aspiring. She provided freedom for daughters to devote themselves to their self-development and relieved mothers from exhausting labor, while requiring no financial or emotional maintenance, \"no empathy.\"\n\nIn antebellum America, as in the past (from the initial African-European contact in North America), black women were deemed to be governed by their libidos and portrayed as \"Jezebel character[s]...in every way the counterimage of the mid-nineteenth-century ideal of the Victorian lady.\"\n\nEnslaved women in every state of the antebellum union considered freedom, but it was a livelier hope in the North than in most of the South. Many slaves sought their freedom through self-purchase, the legal system of freedom suits, and as runaways, sometimes resulting in the separation of children and parents. \"Unfinished childhoods and brutal separations punctuated the lives of most African American girls, and mothers dreamed of freedom that would not impose more losses on their daughters.\"\n\nAfter the Revolution, Southern plantation owners imported a massive number of new slaves from Africa and the Caribbean until the United States banned the import of slaves in 1808. More importantly, more than one million slaves were transported in a forced migration in the domestic slave trade, from the Upper South to the Deep South, most by slave traders—either overland where they were held for days in chained coffles, or by the coastwise trade and ships. The majority of slaves in the Deep South, men and women, worked on cotton plantations. Cotton was the leading cash crop during this time, but slaves also worked on rice, corn, sugarcane, and tobacco plantations, clearing new land, digging ditches, cutting and hauling wood, slaughtering livestock, and making repairs to buildings and tools. Black women also cared for their children and managed the bulk of the housework and domestic chores. Living with the dual burdens of racism and sexism, enslaved women in the South held roles within the family and community that contrasted sharply with more traditional or upper class American women's roles.\n\nYoung girls generally started working well before boys, with many working before age seven. Although field work was traditionally considered to be \"men's work,\" different estimates conclude that between 63-80 percent of women worked in the fields. Adult female work depended greatly upon plantation size. On small farms, women and men performed similar tasks, while on larger plantations, males were given more physically demanding work. Few of the chores performed by enslaved women took them off the plantation. Therefore they were less mobile than enslaved men, who often assisted their masters in the transportation of crops, supplies, and other materials, and were often hired out as artisans and craftsmen. Women also worked in the domestic sphere as servants, cooks, seamstresses, and nurses. Although a female slave's labor in the field superseded childrearing in importance, the responsibilities of childbearing and childcare greatly circumscribed the life of an enslaved woman. This also explains why female slaves were less likely to run away than men.\n\nMany female slaves were the object of severe sexual exploitation; often bearing the children of their white masters, master's sons, or overseers. Black women were prohibited from defending themselves against any type of abuse, including sexual, at the hands of white men. If a slave attempted to defend herself, she was often subjected to further beatings by the master or even by the mistress.\nThe black female, woman or child, was forced into sexual relationships for the white slave master's pleasure and profit; attempting to keep the slave population growing by his own doing, and not by importing more slaves from Africa. Even Thomas Jefferson, President of the United States, is believed to have fathered six mixed-race children (four survived to adulthood) with one of his female slaves, Sally Hemings, a woman of three-quarters European ancestry and half-sister to his late wife, who served as the widower's concubine for more than two decades. In the case of Harriet Ann Jacobs, author of \"Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,\" her master, Dr. James Norcom, had sexually harassed her for years. Even after she had two children of her own, he threatened to sell them if she denied his sexual advances.\n\nSlavery was abolished in the United States in 1865, with the ratification of the 13th Amendment. The decree offered enslaved men a path to freedom through military service. However it wasn't until the Act of 1861 where women found their freedom as they were no longer declared property of the Confederates in the south. In 1868, the 14th Amendment extended citizenship rights to African Americans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22077386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22077386", "title": "French and Saunders Still Alive", "text": "French and Saunders Still Alive\n\nFrench and Saunders: Still Alive! is a 2008 tour by comedy duo Dawn French and Jennifer Saunders. They performed in the UK in February - May in 2008 and were at Drury Lane, London for a month. The tour continued to Australia in mid-2009. There were many positive reviews for the UK leg of the tour, yet most reviews on the Australian leg were poor and negative. The first leg of the show concluded in May 2008. The show ended 9 November, in London. Previously they have toured their comedy act / sketch show very rarely, with UK tours in 1990 & 2000. The current tour contains a selection of their favourite sketches, as well as new material written specifically for the tour. The show was directed by Hamish McColl, set design by Lez Brotherstone, lighting, video and visual effects by Willie Williams.\n\nVideo Introduction - Grannies Go To The Show\n\n\nVideo Interlude - Madonna\n\nVideo Interlude - Prickly Pear Farm\n\nVideo Interlude - Those Lucky Bitches, Joan and Jackie Collins!\n\n\n\nVideo Interlude - What Ever Happened To Baby Dawn?\n\nVideo Interlude - Jennifer Has A Marlene Day\n\n\nVideo Interlude - Catherine Zeta-Jones\n\n\nVideo Outro - French and Saunders Over The Years\n\n\n•28 February - Blackpool\n•1 March - Blackpool\n\n•4 March - Manchester\n•5 March - Manchester\n•6 March - Manchester\n•7 March - Manchester\n•8 March - Manchester\n\n•11 March - Sheffield\n\n•12 March - Newcastle upon Tyne\n•13 March - Newcastle upon Tyne\n\n•14 March - Edinburgh\n•15 March - Edinburgh\n\n•18 March - Glasgow\n•19 March - Glasgow\n\n•20 March - Sunderland\n\n•21 March - Aberdeen\n\n•22 March - Newcastle upon Tyne\n\n•25 March - Brighton\n•26 March - Brighton\n\n•27 March - Sheffield\n\n•28 March - Ipswich\n•29 March - Ipswich\n\n•1 April - Plymouth\n•2 April - Plymouth\n\n•3 April - Nottingham\n•4 April - Nottingham\n•5 April - Nottingham\n\n•7 April - Bournemouth\n\n•9 April - Cardiff\n•10 April - Cardiff\n•11 April - Cardiff\n•12 April - Cardiff\n\n•14 April - Southampton\n•15 April - Southampton\n\n•16 April - Liverpool\n•17 April - Liverpool\n\n•18 April - Harrogate\n\n•19 April - Llandeilo\n\n•21 April - Birmingham\n•22 April - Birmingham\n•23 April - Birmingham\n•24 April - Birmingham\n•25 April - Birmingham\n•26 April - Birmingham\n\n•27 April - Bristol\n•28 April - Bristol\n•29 April - Bristol\n•20 April - Bristol\n\n•2 May - Portsmouth\n\n•3 May - Bournemouth\n\n•5 May - Oxford\n•6 May - Oxford\n•7 May - Oxford\n\n•25 June - Newcastle\n•26 June - Newcastle\n\n•27 June - Canberra\n\n•1 July - Sydney\n•2 July - Sydney\n•3 July - Sydney\n•4 July - Sydney\n•5 July - Sydney\n•6 July - Sydney\n•8 July - Sydney\n•9 July - Sydney\n\n•11 July - Brisbane\n•12 July - Brisbane\n•13 July - Brisbane\n\n•15 July - Melbourne\n•16 July - Melbourne\n•17 July - Melbourne\n•18 July - Melbourne\n•19 July - Melbourne\n•20 July - Melbourne\n\n•23 July - Perth\n•24 July - Perth\n•25 July - Perth\n\n•28 July - Adelaide\n•29 July - Adelaide\n\n•Two shows were performed on 4 July in Sydney.\n•Two shows were performed on 12 July in Brisbane.\n•Two shows were performed on 18 July in Melbourne, both shows at different venues.\n•On 23 July in Perth, the show was performed at a different venue.\n•Two shows were performed on 28 July in Adelaide, both shows at different venues.\n"}
{"id": "338608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338608", "title": "GLSEN", "text": "GLSEN\n\nGLSEN (formerly the Gay, Lesbian & Straight Education Network) is a United States-based education organization working to create safe and inclusive K-12 schools. Founded in 1990 in Boston, Massachusetts, GLSEN's mission states the organization seeks to end discrimination, harassment, and bullying based on sexual orientation, gender identity and gender expression in K-12 schools. In recognition that a more inclusive name was needed, the organization no longer uses its former full name and is commonly known today as GLSEN. The organization is headquartered in New York City and an office of public policy based in Washington, D.C. GLSEN focuses its efforts on the support and opportunities provided by the four pillars of safety, respect, health, and leadership. Through programs, research, policy, training, and resource development work, GLSEN has built a network of 39 GLSEN Chapters in 26 states, 20,000 educators, and more than 8,000 registered student clubs.\n\nGuided by research such as GLSEN's \"National School Climate Survey\", GLSEN has developed resources, lesson plans, classroom materials, and professional development programs for teachers on how to support LGBTQ students, such as \"Safe Schools\" training. \"Ready, Set, Respect!\", \"Safe Space kits\", and program guides for all the days of action. Safe Schools training and various other professional development opportunities have been facilitated by more than 200 GLSEN trainers to over 5,000 educators and school personnel each year. \"Ready, Set, Respect!\" is an elementary school toolkit developed to help educators ensure that all students feel safe and respected. \"GLSEN’s Safe Space Kit\", which has been distributed to over 63,000 schools in the country, provides educators with a guide for supporting LGBTQ students, as well as Safe Space stickers and posters.\n\nMany LGBTQ students, in response to victimization, avoid school altogether, which can strain their performance and lead to academic failure. GLSEN has advocated that one of the most effective ways for schools, districts and states to improve their school climates and to make their schools safer and more affirming is to enact LGBTQ-inclusive anti-bullying laws and policies. GLSEN has worked with the U.S. Departments of Education, Justice, and Health and Human Services to create model policies that support LGBTQ students and educators, including the first-ever Trans Model Policy, as well as implementation guides to ensure that these policies are considered, passed, and implemented. GLSEN has considered their signature legislation to be the Safe Schools Improvement Act and has been honored by the White House as a “Champion of Change”.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGLSEN's Day of Silence is a national day of action that began at the University of Virginia in 1996 in which students vow to take a form of silence to call attention to the silencing effect of anti-LGBTQ bullying and harassment in schools. GLSEN's Day of Silence takes place in 8,000 U.S. schools every year and has spread to more than 60 countries.\n\nEvery January thousands of elementary and middle schools participate in GLSEN's No Name-Calling Week to end bullying and celebrate kindness. No Name-Calling Week was inspired by the popular young adult novel entitled \"The Misfits\" by popular author James Howe, and is supported by over 60 national partner organizations.\n\nEvery fall, GLSEN's Ally Week serves to educate allies about the role they play in creating safer and more inclusive spaces for LGBTQ youth. Ally Week was started in 2005 by GLSEN's Jump-Start National Student Leadership team. Ally Week is supported by over 20 endorsers and provides allies and educators with resources to become stronger allies to LGBTQ youth.\n\nOn October 8, 2008, GLSEN and Ad Council released the Think Before You Speak campaign, designed to end homophobic vocabulary and raise awareness about the prevalence and consequences of anti-LGBTQ bias and behavior in America's schools among youth, through the use of television, radio, print, and outdoor ads.\nThe campaign also aimed to raise awareness among adults, school personnel, and parents. It includes three television public service announcements (PSAs), six print PSAs and three radio PSAs. Television commercials for the campaign include singer Hilary Duff as well as comedian Wanda Sykes. In 2008 the campaign won the Ad Council's Gold Bell award for \"Best Public Service Advertising Campaign\" from the Ad Council.\n\nGLSEN has been conducting research and evaluation on LGBTQ issues in K-12 education since 1999. GLSEN became the only organization to regularly document the school experiences of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) middle and high school students in the U.S. using GLSEN's National School Climate Survey. Other research reports GLSEN has put out include \"From Statehouse to Schoolhouse: Anti-Bullying Policies in U.S. States and School Districts\", \"Shared Differences: The Experiences of LGBTQ Students of Color in Our Nation's Schools\", \"Harsh Realities: The Experiences of Transgender Youth in Our Nation's Schools\", as well as many other reports, articles, and book chapters.\n\nThe GLSEN National Student Council, formerly known as the Student Ambassadors program, is one of GLSEN's student leadership teams. Each year, GLSEN selects a small group of middle and high school students to serve as GLSEN youth representatives for the upcoming school year. Students of the National Student Council advise GLSEN on campaigns, bring GLSEN resources to their schools, represent GLSEN in the media, and have their own work published in local and national outlets. The students of the National Student Council receive interview coaching, media training, and attend workshops with GLSEN staff on public speaking, blogging, social media, policy, and understanding power and privilege.\n\nGLSEN Chapters, with the support and guidance of the national office, work to bring GLSEN programs to their specific communities on a local level. Chapter board members and volunteers are students, educators, parents and community members who volunteer their time to support students and Gay-Straight Alliances, train educators and provide opportunities for everyone to make change in their local schools. GLSEN has 38 volunteer-led GLSEN Chapters in 26 states that work with student leaders, provide professional development for educators, and encourage policymakers to enact LGBTQ-inclusive policies.\n\nGLSEN organizes the annual GLSEN Respect Awards to honor leaders, personalities, and organizations who have made significant contributions to LGBTQ youth. Awards are given to organizations, celebrities, students, educators and gay–straight alliances. Since 2004, there have been over four dozen honorees and over $15 million raised in all. The first Respect Awards were in New York in 2004 and honored Andrew Tobias, author and Treasurer of the Democratic National Committee; MTV; and student Marina Gatto. Since then, the Respect Awards are held annually in New York in late May and in Los Angeles in late October. Since 2004, there have been over four-dozen honorees and over $17 million raised.\n\nIn 2000, the leader of the conservative Parents' Rights Coalition of Massachusetts (now known as MassResistance) secretly taped one of the 50 workshops in \"Teachout 2000\", titled \"What They Didn't Tell You About Queer Sex and Sexuality in Health Class: Workshop for Youth Only, Ages 14–21\". Students discussed sex in a workshop \"billed as a \"safe place\" for youths to get their questions about their sexuality answered\" in the session's Q&A section. A question was asked about fisting and an explanation was provided. Greg Carmack subsequently suggested that the question might have been planted by those making the recordings. MassResistance dubbed the incident \"Fistgate\" and the tapes generated controversy when they were broadcast over radio. A state employee who participated in the discussion and was subsequently dismissed filed suit against Camenker and Scott Whiteman as a result of the distribution of the tape recordings, while others pointed out the legal prohibition against recording people without their knowledge or permission. According to \"Bay Windows\", a \"Massachusetts Superior Court judge ruled that the tape was illegally acquired and therefore an invasion of privacy against those individuals present, who were never told they were being recorded.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57100408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57100408", "title": "Ghisi Shield", "text": "Ghisi Shield\n\nThe Ghisi Shield is a piece of Renaissance parade armour made by the Italian goldsmith and engraver Giorgio Ghisi, signed and dated 1554. It is part of the Waddesdon Bequest, held by the British Museum in London since 1898.\n\nThe shield is made from a single plate of hammered steel, with its rim turned over a wire. The decoration on the outer face is damascened in gold and partially plated with silver. It is in diameter, deep, and weighs . An inscription on the front of the shield reads, \"GEORGIVS DE GHISYS MNTVANZ FA M.D.LIIII\". \n\nGhisi was an artisan from Mantua, but he was in the Netherlands from about 1550 to about 1555, and the shield was probably made in Antwerp, then under the rule of the Habsburgs. It is one of only two surviving pieces of damascened metalwork known to have been made by Ghisi. (The other item is a damaged sword hilt, dated 1570, and now in the Hungarian National Museum in Budapest.)\n\nThe intricately decorated shield, damascened with gold and silver, was intended for display, not for use in battle. It is embossed with repoussé and chased work in high relief, with a framed central circular scene of battling horseman, surrounded by four strapwork cartouches containing allegorical female figures (Victory, Fame, Fortitude, Prudence). The frames around the five main scenes themselves incorporate detailed images on a much smaller scale, taken from the \"Iliad\" and ancient mythology, inlaid in gold. Further imagery of birds, foliage, putti, satyrs and other figures, fills the field between the frames.\n\nThe shield may have been designed by a Netherlandish artist, not Ghisi himself: other shields made in the Netherlands in the late 16th century have survived with similar decoration, but none of them demonstrate the accomplished decorative skills of Ghisi. For example, an iron shield held by the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna has similar strapwork and embossed imagery with scenes of Jason and the Golden Fleece; and a similar gilded shield or rondache at the Hermitage in St Petersburg has four allegorical figures (Prudence, Fortitude, Fame, Envy) arranged in circular cartouches around a circular image of Mars. \n\nThe Ghisi Shield was sold for £1,000 at the Allègre sale in Paris in 1863, and then sold in the sale of the Demidov Collection in Paris in 1870, shortly before the death of Anatoly Nikolaievich Demidov, 1st Prince of San Donato, for 1,600,000 francs (about £6,400). It was bought at the Demidov sale by Baron Anselm von Rothschild, and later inherited by his son Baron Ferdinand de Rothschild, who left it to the British Museum after his death in 1898 as part of the Waddesdon Bequest.\n\n"}
{"id": "41291851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41291851", "title": "Harold Crouch", "text": "Harold Crouch\n\nHarold Crouch (born 1940) is an Australian political science scholar and author. He has been described as \"one of the pre-eminent scholars of Indonesian politics.\" Most of his books are published under \"Harold Crouch\".\n\nHarold Arthur Crouch was born on 18 July 1940 in Melbourne, Australia at the Mercy Hospital. His parents, Marjorie Hilda Morris (Crouch) and Harold Crouch, were married in 1934 and lived in Elwood, Victoria, a suburb of Melbourne, at the time of his birth. He had a sister named Marjorie. In 1973 he married Khasnor Johan, a Malaysian historian.\n\nCrouch began his studies in political science at the University of Melbourne in 1958. William Macmahon Ball, the \"foremost pioneer of Australia's relations with the newly independent countries of Asia\", led the department at that time. Crouch received his Bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Melbourne.\n\nHe studied for his master's degree at the University of Bombay in 1963-65 and in 1966 published his research on Indian trade unions. Crouch was one of the few Australian citizens studying in an Asian university at that time.\n\nCrouch studied for his PhD in Indonesian studies at Monash University in Melbourne under the supervision of Herbert Feith who was at that time Australia's \"pre-eminent scholar of Indonesian politics\". While teaching at the University of Indonesia from 1968 to 1971, Crouch gathered information that would be used for his dissertation, which was completed in 1975. The subject of his research was Indonesian politics and the Indonesian army. In 1978 a revised version, \"The Army and Politics in Indonesia\" was published by Cornell University Press.\n\nFrom 1968 until 1971, Crouch taught political science in Jakarta at the University of Indonesia. He was from 1976 to 1990 a lecturer in political science at the National University of Malaysia. For one semester in 1983–1984 he taught at the University of the Philippines.\n\nIn 1991 he joined the Australian National University's Department of Political and Social Change, Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies in Canberra. His research as a senior research fellow centered on Southeast Asian politics. He was appointed as professor in 2002 and retired at the end of 2005.\n\nCrouch founded the Jakarta office of the International Crisis Group in 2000–2001, after Soeharto's resignation. This led to the accumulation of information for his 2010 book, \"Political Reform in Indonesia after Soeharto\" published by the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies in Singapore.\n\nIn the preface of their book \"Soeharto's New Order and its Legacy: Essays in honour of Harold Crouch\", the authors write:\nCrouch published works between 1964 and 2010 predominantly in English, but also in Indonesia and Dutch languages.\n"}
{"id": "38025138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38025138", "title": "Henricus Hornkens", "text": "Henricus Hornkens\n\nHenricus Hornkens, sometimes cited as Henri or Heinrich (died 1612) was a 16th-century priest and lexicographer.\n\nHornkens served Philip II of Spain and Philip III of Spain as a court chaplain. In 1598 he accompanied the Infanta Isabella Clara Eugenia to the Low Countries, where he became dean of the church of St Gummarus in Lier, Duchy of Brabant. He compiled a French-Spanish-Latin dictionary that was published in Brussels in 1599 and was used by César Oudin in his own lexicographical work. He died in 1612.\n\n"}
{"id": "528088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528088", "title": "Jaan Kross", "text": "Jaan Kross\n\nJaan Kross (19 February 1920 – 27 December 2007) was an Estonian writer. He was nominated several times for the Nobel Prize in Literature during the early 1990s.\n\nBorn in Tallinn, Estonia, son of a skilled metal-worker, Jaan Kross studied at Jakob Westholm Grammar School, and attended the University of Tartu (1938–1945) and graduated from its School of Law. He taught there as a lecturer until 1946, and again as Professor of \"Artes Liberales\" in 1998.\n\nIn 1940, when Kross was 20, the Soviet Union invaded and subsequently occupied the three Baltic countries: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, sending all their governments to Siberia. Then in 1941, the Nazi Germans invaded and took over the country, which formed a brief respite for many of the population (except, of course, Estonian Jews) but Estonians soon realised that the German Nazis were as bad as the Soviet Communists. These two powers had after all even had a short-lived truce, when they both signed the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. Hitler and Stalin divided up Eastern Europe in a secret protocol within this pact, and the Baltic countries became part of Stalin's share.\n\nKross was first arrested by the Germans for six months in 1944 during the German occupation of Estonia (1941–1944), suspected of what was termed \"nationalism\", i.e. promoting Estonian independence. Then, on 5 January 1946, when Estonia had once again become part of the Soviet Union, he was arrested by the Soviet occupation authorities who kept him a short while in the cellar of the NKVD headquarters, then kept him in prison in Tallinn, finally, in October 1947, deporting him to a Gulag camp in Vorkuta, Russia. He spent a total of eight years in this part of North Russia, six working in the mines at the labour camp in Inta, then doing easier jobs, plus two years still living as a deportee, but nevertheless not in a labour camp. Upon his return to Estonia in 1954 he became a professional writer, not least because his law studies during Estonian independence were now of no value whatsoever, as Soviet law held sway.\n\nAt first Kross wrote poetry, alluding to a number of contemporary phenomena under the guise of writing about historical figures. But he soon moved over to writing prose, a genre that was to become his principal one.\n\nKross was by far the most translated and nationally and internationally best-known Estonian writer. He was nominated several times for the Nobel Prize in Literature during the early 1990s, and was named a People's Writer of the Estonian SSR (1985); he received the State Prize of the Estonian SSR (1977). He also held several honorary doctorates and international decorations, including the highest Estonian order and one of the highest German orders. In 1999 he was awarded the Baltic Assembly Prize for Literature.\n\nIn 1990 Kross won the Amnesty International Golden Flame Prize.\n\nBecause of Kross' status and visibility as a leading Estonian author, his works have been translated into many languages, but mostly into Finnish, Swedish, Russian, German, and Latvian. This is on account of geographical proximity but also a common history (for example, Estonia was a Swedish colony in the 17th century and German was the language of the upper échelons of Estonian society for hundreds of years). As can be seen from the list below by the year 2015 there are five books of Kross' works that have been published in English translation with publishing houses in the United States and UK. But a number of shorter novels, novellas, and short-stories were published during Soviet times (i.e. 1944–1991) in English translation and published in the Soviet Union.\n\nTranslations have mostly been from the Estonian original. Sometimes translations were however done, during Soviet times by first being translated into Russian and then from Russian into English, not infrequently by native-speakers of Russian or Estonian. Nowadays, Kross' works are translated into English either directly from the Estonian, or via the Finnish version. A reasonably complete list of translations of works by Jaan Kross into languages other than English can found on the ELIC website.\n\nIt should be noted that Kross knew the German language from quite an early age as friends of the family spoke it as their mother-tongue, and Kross' mother had a good command of it. His Russian, however, was mainly learnt the hard way while working as a slave labourer out in the Gulag. But he also had some knowledge of Swedish and translated one crime novel by Christian Steen (pseudonym of the exile Estonian novelist Karl Ristikivi) from that Swedish. He also translated works by Pierre-Jean de Béranger, Honoré de Balzac, and Paul Éluard from French, Bertolt Brecht and Rolf Hochhuth from German, Ivan Goncharov and David Samoilov from Russian, and \"Alice in Wonderland\", \"Macbeth\" and \"Othello\" from English.\n\nKross' novels and short stories are almost universally historical; indeed, he is often credited with a significant rejuvenation of the genre of the historical novel. Most of his works take place in Estonia and deal, usually, with the relationship of Estonians and Baltic Germans and Russians. Very often, Kross' description of the historical struggle of the Estonians against the Baltic Germans is actually a metaphor for the contemporary struggle against the Soviet occupation. However, Kross' acclaim internationally (and nationally even after the regaining of Estonian independence) show that his novels also deal with topics beyond such concerns; rather, they deal with questions of mixed identities, loyalty, and belonging.\n\nGenerally, \"The Czar's Madman\" has been considered Kross' best novel; it is also the most translated one. Also well-translated is \"Professor Martens' Departure\", which because of its subject matter (academics, expertise, and national loyalty) is very popular in academe and an important \"professorial novel\". The later novel \"Excavations\", set in the mid-1950s, deals with the \"thaw\" period after Stalin's death as well as with the Danish conquest of Estonia in the Middle Ages, and today considered by several critics as his finest, has not been translated into English yet; it is however available in German.\n\nWithin the framework of the historical novel, Kross' novels can be divided up into two types: truly historical ones, and more contemporary narratives with an element of autobiography. In the list below, the truly historical ones, often set in previous centuries, include the \"Between Three Plagues\" tetralogy, set in the 16th century, \"A Rakvere Novel / Romance\" set in the 18th (the title is ambiguous), \"The Czar's Madman\" set in the 19th century, \"Professor Martens' Departure\" set at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries, and \"Elusiveness / Evasion\" set around 1918. The semi-autobiographical novels include Kross' novel about the ultimate fates of his schoolmates, i.e. \"The Wikman Boys\" (Wikman being based on his alma mater the Westholm Grammar School – both names are of Swedish origin) a similar sort of novel about his university chums, \"Mesmer's Circle / Ring\"; the novel \"Excavations\" which describes Kross' alter ego Peeter Mirk and his adventures with archaeology, conformism, revolt, compromise and skulduggery after he has returned from the Siberian labour camps and internal exile out there. And also the novel that has appeared in English translation entitled \"Treading Air\", and most of his short-stories belong to this subgenre.\n\nA frequent stylistic leitmotif in Kross' novels is the use of the internal (or inner) monologue, usually when the protagonist is trying to think his way out of a thorny problem. The reader will note that every protagonist or narrator, from Timotheus von Bock in \"The Czar's Madman\" to Kross' two alter egos, Jaak Sirkel and Peeter Mirk in the semi-autobiographical novels, indulges in this. And especially Bernhard Schmidt, the luckless telescope inventor, in the novel that appeared in English as \"Sailing Against the Wind\" (2012).\n\nAnother common feature of Kross novels is a comparison, sometimes overt but usually covert, between various historical epochs and the present day, which for much of Kross' writing life consisted of Soviet reality, including censorship, an inability to travel freely abroad, a dearth of consumer goods, the ever-watchful eye of the KGB and informers, etc. Kross was always very skilful at always remaining just within the bounds of what the Soviet authorities could accept. Kross also enjoyed playing with the identities of people who have the same, or nearly the same, name. This occurs in \"Professor Martens' Departure\" where two different Martens-figures are discussed, legal experts who lived several decades apart, and in \"Sailing Against the Wind\" where in one dream sequence the protagonist Bernhard Schmidt meets a number of others named Schmidt.\n\nWhen Kross was already in his late 70s he gave a series of lectures at Tartu University explaining certain aspects of his novels, not least the roman à clef dimension, given the fact that quite a few of his characters are based on real-life people, both in the truly historical novels and the semi-autobiographical ones. These lectures are collected in a book entitled \"Omaeluloolisus ja alltekst\" (Autobiographism and Subtext) which appeared in 2003.\n\nDuring the last twenty years of his life, Jaan Kross occupied some of his time with writing his memoirs (entitled \"Kallid kaasteelised\", i.e. \"Dear Co-Travellers\" – this translation of the title avoids the unfortunate connotation of the expression \"fellow-travellers\"). These two volumes ended up with a total of 1,200 pages, including quite a few photographs from his life. His life started quietly enough, but after describing quite innocuous things such as the summer house during his childhood and his schooldays, Kross moves on to the first Soviet occupation of Estonia, his successful attempt to avoid being drafted for the Waffen-SS during the Nazi German occupation, and a long section covering his experiences of prison and the labour camps. The last part describes his return from the camps and his fledgling attempts at authorship. The second volume continues from when he moved into the flat in central Tallinn where he lived for the rest of his life, plus his growing success as a writer. There is also a section covering his one-year stint as Member of Parliament after renewed independence, and his various trips abroad with his wife to, for instance, the United States and Canada.\n\nFive books by Jaan Kross have been published in English translation, four novels and one collection of stories: The English translations appeared in the following order: \"The Czar's Madman\" 1992; \"Professor Martens' Departure\" 1994; \"The Conspiracy and Other Stories\" 1995; \"Treading Air\" 2003; \"Sailing Against the Wind\" 2012. Descriptions of the above books can also be found on various websites and online bookshops. The protagonists of the first three books listed here are based on real-life figures.\n\nThe Czar's Madman (Estonian: \"Keisri hull\", 1978; English: 1994; translator: Anselm Hollo).\nThis tragic novel is based on the life of a Baltic-German nobleman, Timotheus von Bock (1787–1836), who was an adjutant to the relatively liberal Czar of Russia, Alexander I. Von Bock wishes to interest the Czar in the idea of liberating the serfs, i.e. the peasant classes, people who were bought and sold almost like slaves by rich landowners. But this is too much for the Czar and in 1818 von Bock is arrested and kept, at the Czar's pleasure, in a prison in Schlüssleburg. Von Bock is released when the next Czar ascends the throne, but by that time he is having mental problems during his last years under house arrest. This is regarded as Kross most accomplished novel, along with the \"Between Three Plagues\" tetralogy (see below).\n\nProfessor Martens' Departure (Estonian: \"Professor Martensi ärasõit\", 1984; English: 1994; translator: Anselm Hollo).\nIn early June 1909 the ethnic Estonian professor, Friedrich Fromhold Martens (1845–1909) gets on the train in Pärnu heading for the Foreign Ministry of the Russian Empire in the capital, Saint Petersburg. During the journey he thinks back over the events and episodes of his life. Should he have made a career working for the Russian administration as a compiler of treaties at the expense of his Estonian identity? He also muses on his namesake, a man worked on a similar project in earlier decades. A novel that examines the compromises involved when making a career in an empire when coming from a humble background.\n\nSailing Against the Wind (Estonian: \"Vastutuulelaev\", 1987; English: 2012; translator: Eric Dickens).\nThis novel is about the ethnic Estonian Bernhard Schmidt (1879–1935) from the island of Naissaar who loses his right hand in a firework accident during his teenage years. He nevertheless uses his remaining hand to work wonders when polishing high quality lenses and mirrors for astronomical telescopes. Later on, when living in what had become Nazi Germany, he himself invents large stellar telescopes that are still to be found at, for instance, the Mount Palomar Observatory in California and on the island of Mallorca. Schmidt has to wrestle with his conscience when living in Germany as the country is re-arming and telescopes could be put to military use. But because Germany was the leading technical nation at the time, he feels reasonably comfortable there, first in the run-down small town of Mittweida, then at the main Bergedorf Observatory just outside Hamburg. But the rise of the Nazis is literally driving him mad.\n\nThe Conspiracy and Other Stories (Estonian: \"Silmade avamise päev\", 1988 – most of the stories there ; English: 1995; translator: Eric Dickens).\nThis collection contains six semi-autobiographical stories mostly dealing with Jaan Kross' life during the Nazi-German and Soviet-Russian occupations of Estonia, and his own imprisonment during those two epochs. The stories, some of which have appeared elsewhere in this translation, are. \"The Wound\", \"Lead Piping\", \"The Stahl Grammar\", \"The Conspiracy\", \"The Ashtray\", and \"The Day Eyes Were Opened\". In all of them there is a tragi-comic aspect.\n\nTreading Air (Estonian: \"Paigallend\", 1998; English: 2003; translator: Eric Dickens).\nThe protagonist of this novel is Ullo Paerand, a restless young man of many talents. He attends a prestigious private school, but when his speculator father abandons him and his mother the money runs out. He then helps his mother run a laundry to make ends meet. He works his way up, ultimately becoming a messenger boy for the Estonian Prime-Minister's office. He is even offered a chance to escape abroad by going to study at the Vatican, but stays in Estonia. This semi-autobiographical novel is set against the background of a very stormy epoch in the history of Estonia, from when the Soviets occupy the country in 1940, the German occupation the next year, the notorious bombing of central Tallinn by the Soviet airforce on 9 March 1944, and a further thirty years of life in the Estonian Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nBetween Three Plagues (\"Kolme katku vahel\", four volumes 1970–1976; English: three volumes 2016–2018; translator: Merike Lepasaar Beecher)\nThis is Kross' first major work and his largest in volume. The idea started out as a filmscript, which was shelved, then became a TV serial, and finally the four-volume suite of novels which is one of Kross' most famous works. It is set in the 16th century, especially the middle, before and during the Livonian War which lasted, on and off, from the 1550s to the early 1580s. Livonia included parts of what are now Estonia and Latvia, and was by the 1550s split up into several parts ruled by Denmark, Sweden, Russia and Poland-Lithuania. The protagonist is, as is often the case with Kross, a real-life figure called Balthasar Russow (1543–1602), who wrote the Livonian Chronicle. The chronicle describes the political horse-trading between the various countries and churches of the day. The Estonians, mostly of peasant stock in those days, always ended up as piggy in the middle. There were also three outbreaks of the bubonic plague to contend with. Russow was the humble son of a peasant, but became a German-speaking clergyman, which was a big step up in society. The fact that he could read, let alone write a chronicle, was unusual. The tetralogy starts with a famous scene where the then ten-year-old Balthasar watches some tightrope walkers in Tallinn, a metaphor for his own diplomatic tightrope walking later in life. He appears as something of a rough diamond throughout the books. The entire tetralogy has been translated into Finnish, German, and Russian, and is being translated into English.\n\nThe majority of Kross novels remain untranslated into English. These are as follows:\n\nUnder Clio's Gaze (\"Klio silma all\"; 1972)\nThis slim volume contains four novellas. The first deals with Michael Sittow, a painter who has been working at the court of Spain but now wants to join the painters' guild in Tallinn which is as good as a closed shop (\"Four Dialogues on the Subject of Saint George\"). The second story tells of an ethnic Estonian Mihkelson who will now be knighted by the Czar as he has been instrumental in putting down a rebellion in Russia; this is the story of his pangs of conscience, but also how he brings his peasant parents to the ceremony to show his origins (\"Mihkelson's Matriculation\") The third story is set in around 1824, and about the collator of Estonian folk literature Friedrich Reinhold Kreutzwald who, after passing his exams, does not want to become a theologian but wants to study military medicine in Saint Petersburg, then the capital of the Russian Empire; meanwhile, he meets a peasant who can tell him about the Estonian epic hero Kalev, here of the epic \"Kalevipoeg\" (\"Two Lost Sheets of Paper\"). The final story is set in the 1860s, when a national consciousness was awakening in Estonia and the newspaper editor Johann Voldemar Jannsen starts an Estonian-language newspaper with his daughter Lydia Koidula and founds the Estonian Song Festival (\"A While in a Swivel Chair\").\n\nThe Third Range of Hills (\"Kolmandad mäed\"; 1974)\nThis short novel tells the story of the ethnic Estonian painter Johann Köler (1826–1899) who had become a famous portrait-painter at the Russian court in Saint Petersburg. He is now, in 1879, painting a fresco for a church in Tallinn, the capital of Estonia. As model for his Christ he picks out an Estonian peasant from the island of Hiiumaa. Later it transpires that the man he used as model was a sadistic criminal, and this is held against Köler by his Baltic-German overlords.\n\nA Rakvere Novel (\"Rakvere romaan\"; 1982)\nThe novel is set in the year 1764. The young Berend Falck is taken on by the Baroness Gertrude von Tisenhausen. Falck is an ethnic Estonian, von Tisenhausen a Baltic-German. Rakvere (Wesenberg, in German) is an Estonian provincial town and in those days the baroness dominated. Falck soon gets involved in the struggle between the townspeople and the baroness. And as he has been employed by her, he is initially obliged to take her side. But as she begins to confiscate land, he grows disillusioned with her. The townspeople, for their part, attempt to reclaim the rights that they had had earlier under Swedish colonial rule, decades before. Sweden lost Estonia to Russia around 1710, so in the epoch in which this novel is set, Rakvere and indeed Estonia are part of the Russian Empire, despite the fact that this local dispute is between the German-speaking baronial classes and Estonian-speaking peasants. A panoramic novel of divided loyalties and corruption.\n\nThe Wikman Boys (\"Wikmani poisid\"; 1988)\nJaan Kross' alter ego Jaak Sirkel will soon matriculate from school. It is the mid-1930s. Young people eagerly go to the cinema in their free time; at school they have the usual sprinkling of eccentric teachers. But Europe is gradually moving towards war, and this overshadows the lives of the young people. When war comes, some of Sirkel's schoolmates end up in the Red Army, i.e. the Soviets, others from the same school class fighting for the Nazi Germans. The tragedy of a small country fought over by two superpowers. One such devastating battle occurred at Velikiye Luki near the Russian-Estonian border, with Estonians fighting for both sides.\n\nExcavations (\"Väljakaevamised\"; 1990)\nThis novel first appeared in Finnish as the political situation in Estonia was very unclear owing to the imminent collapse of the Soviet Union. It tells the story of Peeter Mirk (another of Kross' alter egos) who has just returned from eight years of labour camp and internal exile in Siberia and is looking for work, in order to avoid being sent back, labelled as a \"parasite to Soviet society\". And he needs the money to live on. It is now 1954, Stalin is dead, there is a slight political thaw. He finds a job on an archaeological dig near the main bastion in central Tallinn. There he finds a manuscript written in the 13th century by a leprous clergyman, a document which could overturn some of the assumptions about the history of Estonia that the Soviet occupier has. The novel also gives portraits of several luckless individuals who have been caught up in the paradoxes of German and Russian occupations.\n\nElusiveness (\"Tabamatus\"; 1992)\nIn 1941, a young Estonian law student is a fugitive from the occupying German Nazis, as he is suspected of being a dangerous resistance fighter. He is accused of writing certain things during the one-year Soviet occupation the previous year. \"(Background note: Estonia was occupied by Soviet forces from summer 1940 to summer 1941; then the German Nazis occupied Estonia until 1944, when many Estonians escaped to Sweden; finally the Soviets came back and stayed until 1991.)\" But what the German occupiers dislike especially is that this young law student is writing a work about the Estonian politician and freedom fighter Jüri Vilms (1889–1918) who was obliged to flee from the Germans back in 1918 (during another period of Estonia's tangled history) and was shot by firing squad when he had just reached Helsinki, around the time that Estonia finally became independent of Russia.\n\nMesmer's Circle (\"Mesmeri ring\"; 1995)\nAnother novel involving Kross' alter ego, Jaak Sirkel, who is by now a first-year student at Tartu University. One of his fellow students Indrek Tarna has been sent to Siberia by the Reds, when the Soviets occupied Estonia in 1940. Indrek's father performs a strange ritual with several people standing around the dining-table and holding hands – as Franz Mesmer did with his patients. This ritual is meant to give his boy strength by way of prayer. Others react in a more conventional way to the tensions of 1939. This is also where the reader first meets the fellow student who will ultimately become the protagonist in Kross' novel \"Treading Air\". The novel is partly a love story, where Sirkel, a friend of Tarna's is in love with his girlfriend Riina. And Tarna is in Siberia... Conflicting loyalties. When the Germans invade Estonia Tarna can return to Estonia. The Riina problem gets more tangled.\n\nTahtamaa (idem; 2001)\nTahtamaa is a plot of land by the sea. This novel is succinctly described by Rutt Hinrikus of the Estonian Literary Museum\nin a short review article on the internet. It is a novel about the differences in mentality between the Estonians who lived in the Soviet Union, and those that escaped abroad, and their descendants. It is also a novel about greed and covetousness, ownership, and is even a love story between older people. This is Kross' last novel and is set in the 1990s, after Estonia regained its independence.\n\nJaan Kross died in Tallinn, at the age of 87, on 27 December 2007. He is survived by his wife Ellen Niit and four children. The President of Estonia, Toomas Hendrik Ilves, praised Kross \"as a preserver of the Estonian language and culture.\"\n\nKross is buried at the Rahumäe cemetery in Tallinn.\n\n\nSelected Estonian titles in chronological order\n\nStories in English-language anthologies:\n\n\nKross the essayist\n\nBetween 1968 and 1995, Kross published six small volumes of essays and speeches, a total of about 1,200 small-format pages.\n\nBiography\n\nThe only biography of any length of Jaan Kross to date was first published in Finnish by WSOY, Helsinki, in 2008 and was written by the Finnish literary scholar Juhani Salokannel, the then director of the Finnish Institute in Tallinn. Salokannel is also the Finnish translator of several of Kross key works His Kross biography is entitled simply \"Jaan Kross\" and has not yet appeared in any other language except Finnish and Estonian. It covers both the biographical and textual aspects of Kross' work, also dealing with matters not covered in this Wikipedia article such as Kross the poet and Kross the playwright.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9673024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9673024", "title": "Jason Mittell", "text": "Jason Mittell\n\nJason Mittell is a professor of American studies and film and media culture at Middlebury College whose research interests include the history of television, media, culture, and new media. He is author of three books, \"Genre and Television\" (2004), \"Television and American Culture\" (2009), and \"Complex TV: The Poetics of Contemporary Television Storytelling\" (NYU Press, 2015), and co-editor of \"How To Watch Television\" (NYU Press, 2013). \n\nMittell received his Ph.D. in Communication Arts from the University of Wisconsin–Madison's Media & Cultural Studies Program (part of the Department of Communication Arts) in August 2000. In the spring of 1996, Mittell obtained an M.A. in the same concentration and program. Mittell completed his undergraduate studies at Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio in 1992, graduating with a B.A. and majoring in English and Theater.\n\nMittell taught Communication at Georgia State University from 2000 to 2002. Currently, he is a professor at Middlebury College, where he teaches a number of courses related to television, culture, and media, such as \"Television and American Culture, Theories of Popular Culture, Media Technology and Cultural Change, American Media Industries, Animated Film & TV, Narration Across Media\", \"Media and Childhood in American Culture\", and \"Urban American and Serial Television: Watching\" The Wire.\n\nHis research interests include pop culture topics such as television history and criticism, media and cultural history, genre theory, narratology, animation and children's media, cultural historiography, and new media studies and technological convergence. He is currently writing a book on contemporary American television narrative. Mittell also writes a blog entitled JustTV.\n\nMittell's book \"Complex TV\" outlines a historical poetics of contemporary television series, which he calls \"complex TV.\" Mittell argues that the \"complex\" television series of today feature an array of storytelling techniques which cannot be adequately understood through the use of cinematic and literary theory. This is especially the case with seriality, i.e. the fact that television series are told in several, separate episodes. To Mittell, this form of television drama emerged in the early 1990s and is characterized by its use of “narrative special effect” which is to say that a program sometimes \"flexes its storytelling muscles to confound and amaze a viewer”, e.g. by using flashbacks in innovative ways.\n\nBeing based in Bordwellian historical poetics, this books aims to \"identify and describe the formal properties that create such textured narratives.\" To film scholar Sarah Kozloff, this means that Mittell's work shares some similarities with Seymour Chatman's work on film narration.\n\nMittell's book also builds cognitivist assumptions, which means that to Mittell “comprehension is based on the cognitive poetic model developed primarily through David Bordwell’s work on film narration. The core assumption of this approach is that viewers actively construct storyworlds in their minds, and that the best way to understand the comprehension process is through the tools of cognitive psychology.” In line with this, Mittell also draws on Murray Smith's work. Mittell, however, makes a point of stressing that he believes that cognitivist approaches are fully compatible with cultural approaches in terms of understanding and studying television shows.\n\nIn an interview in the \"New York Times\" on February 21, 2007, Mittell defended the use of Wikipedia as a citeable resource for college-level research. Mittell responded to critics that questioned the accuracy and reliability of an online document that anyone in the world can edit at any time by arguing that “The message that is being sent is that ultimately they see it as a threat to traditional knowledge...[;] I see it [Wikipedia] as an opportunity. What does that mean for traditional scholarship? Does traditional scholarship lose value?”\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "579421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579421", "title": "John O. Westwood", "text": "John O. Westwood\n\nJohn Obadiah Westwood (22 December 1805 – 2 January 1893) was an English entomologist and archaeologist also noted for his artistic talents.\n\nBorn in Sheffield, he studied to be a lawyer but abandoned that for his scientific interests.\n\nHe became a curator and later professor at Oxford University, having been nominated by his friend and patron the Reverend Frederick William Hope, whose donation was the basis of the Hope Collection at Oxford. He was also a Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford.\n\nWestwood was a Fellow of the Linnean Society and president of the Entomological Society of London (1852–1853).\n\nAmong the prominent writers and naturalists he associated with was James Rennie, whom he assisted in the editing of Gilbert White's The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne in 1833.\n\nOn 30 December 1892, not long after returning home from a convention in London, Westwood had suddenly collapsed of a cerebral haemorrhage which left him hospitalised. He slipped into a coma just one day later and died on 2 January 1893. His funeral took place on 6 January 1893 and was interred in St Sepulchre's Cemetery, Oxford.\n\nThe J.O. Westwood Medal, awarded every two years by the Royal Entomological Society, is named in his honour.\n\nPartial list\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19998491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19998491", "title": "John Thornton (glass painter)", "text": "John Thornton (glass painter)\n\nJohn Thornton of Coventry (fl. 1405-1433) was a master glazier and stained glass artist active in England during the 15th century. The output of his workshop includes some of the finest English medieval glass.\n\nThe first certain record of Thornton, apart from a possible 1371 reference in Coventry, is his 1405 contract with the Dean of York Minster to glaze the choir east window. The Archbishop of York at the time was Richard le Scrope, a former Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, and the window was funded by Walter Skirlaw, also previously Bishop of Coventry, so it seems possible both men would have recommended Thornton based on their knowledge of his work in his home town.\n\nThornton was made a freeman of York in 1410, but was known to be back living in the St John's Bridges area of Coventry (now known as Burges) by 1413. He appears again in 1433, when he received further payment from the dean and chapter of York, and was recorded as holding property there.\n\nIt has been suggested, though without any strong evidence, that Thornton was the son of a \"John Coventre\", a glazier in the royal glass-painting workshops at Westminster in 1351 and 1352, who later assisted in setting up windows at Windsor Castle for Edward III of England. Thornton could have worked as an assistant to his father before rising to the position of designer and draughtsman.\n\nThornton was instrumental in disseminating the International Gothic style in the north and Midlands of England. The products of his workshop can be recognised by their favouring of white glass and yellow stain set against blue and ruby \"seaweed\"-patterned backgrounds, and by the very distinctive modelling of faces.\n\nThornton's masterpiece is the Great East Window of York Minster, the largest in the building and containing about of glass. According to the contract, much of the work was to be executed by his own hand, though specifically only to \"pourtray [...] the histories, images, and other things to be painted on the [window]\"; evidently some of the glazing would be carried out by apprentices or workmen. Thornton is likely to have recruited glaziers locally in York: he seems to have been an enthusiastic teacher, and his style quickly became dominant in the area.\n\nWork thought to be by Thornton can also be found in several smaller churches, as well as in St Mary's Hall in Coventry. His surviving windows for Coventry Cathedral were removed before it was destroyed in the Coventry Blitz and have been preserved. He is also thought to have produced the windows from the chapel at Hampton Court, Herefordshire, which are now dispersed in various collections, and seven panels in the Church of St. Mary Magdalene, Newark-on-Trent.\n\nThe Thornton 'tradition' continued in York even after the middle of the 15th century, though many of the works produced show a coarsening or loss of quality compared with Thornton's authentic creations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46756296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46756296", "title": "Josef Schächter", "text": "Josef Schächter\n\nJosef Schächter (* September 16, 1901 in Kundrynce, Galicia, † March 27, 1994 Haifa) was an Austrian rabbi, philosopher and member of the Vienna Circle from 1925 to 1936.\n\nJosef Schächter was the son of Shoel Schächter and Sarah, \"née\" Distenfield. He trained as a rabbi and was ordained in 1926. He worked as a Talmud teacher from 1922 to 1929 at the Hebraic school in Vienna and from 1935 to 1938 at the Bible Rambam Institute.\n\nAt the same time, he studied philosophy, primarily with Moritz Schlick and completed his studies in 1931 with a dissertation under Schlick with the title “Critical Account of N. Hartmann’s ‘Grundzüge einer Metaphysik der Erkenntnis’” (\"„Kritische Darstellung von N. Hartmanns ‚Grundzüge einer Metaphysik der Erkenntnis‘“\").\n\nFrom 1925 to 1936 Schächter attended the meetings of the Vienna Circle. His work \"Prolegomena zu einer kritischen Grammatik\" (\"Prolegomena to a Critical Grammar\") was published with a preface by Schlick in the Circle’s book series \"Schriften zur wissenschaftlichen Weltauffassung\" (\"Monographs on the Scientific World-Conception\") in 1935. This work was influenced by Schlick, Friedrich Waismann, and Ludwig Wittgenstein. After Schlick’s murder, Schächter intermittently substituted Friedrich Waismann in running philosophical seminars.\n\nIn 1938 Schächter emigrated to Palestine. He taught at secondary schools, first in Tel Aviv until 1940 and then in Haifa until 1950. In 1943 he married the teacher Netti Dlugacz. From 1951 to 1952 he was superintendent of schools in the Israeli school system. Later he worked as a lecturer for Bible and Aggadah at the teacher’s seminar in Haifa.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1950s a group of his students founded the Kibbuz \"Yodefat\" in Galilee in order to put Schächter’s ideas into practice.\n\nSchächter published numerous works on classical Judaism, on language, meaning, and belief in the context of science and religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43377615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43377615", "title": "Journal of Common Market Studies", "text": "Journal of Common Market Studies\n\nThe Journal of Common Market Studies is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the politics and economics of European integration, focusing principally on developments within the European Union. It was established in 1962 and is published by John Wiley & Sons on behalf of UACES (the Academic Association for Contemporary European Studies). The editors-in-chief are Toni Haastrup (University of Kent) and Richard Whitman (University of Kent) and the co-editors are Lorenzo Fioramonti (University of Pretoria), Heather MacRae (York University), Annick Masselot (University of Canterbury), and Alasdair R. Young (Georgia Institute of Technology).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.243, ranking it 26th out of 165 journals in the category \"Political Science\", 12th out of 86 journals in the category \"International Relations\" and 55th out of 347 journals in the category \"Economics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44258322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44258322", "title": "Judgement of Paris Amphora", "text": "Judgement of Paris Amphora\n\nThe Judgement of Paris Amphora (French: \"amphore du Jugement de Pâris\") is an Attic black-figure amphora named for the scene depicted on it. It is held by the Musée des beaux-arts de Lyon with the inventory number E 581-c and is attributed to the London B76 Painter, who was active at Athens in the second quarter of the sixth century BC.\n\nThe amphora was made around 575-550 BC, during the Archaic Period and the tyranny of Peisistratus at Athens.\n\nThe amphora is a piece of black figure pottery, deriving from the region of Attica, which is located in Mainland Greece to the south of Boeotia, with Athens as its capital.\n\nThe work is now stored in the Musée des beaux-arts de Lyon under the inventory number E 581-c, in the department of antiquities. It was a donation of Joseph Gillet in 1923. In January 1995 the amphora was cleaned using steam and cotton swabs with water and a little ammonia. It was then buffed with soft fibreglass and the missing half of its foot was reconstructed in plaster. This returned the vase to a good state, though some scratches remain around the neck and the red part of the surface is damaged.\n\nThe amphora has a figural scene on each of its two faces. These scenes are supplemented by floral patterns above the figural scenes and around the lip of the vase, which are identical on both sides. In this period the vegetation decorating painted vases is becoming stylised and symbolic.\n\nThe scenes are framed like paintings, but the frame widens as the amphora bulges outwards. The background colour of the scenes reappears at the lip and foot of the amphora.\n\nOn face A there are three Greek goddesses: Hera, Athena and Aphrodite dressed in himations, the traditional women's overgarment. Each woman holds a crown in her hand as an offering. The women are led by Hermes in the direction of Paris. The scene, therefore is the Judgement of Paris, which first appeared on Attic vases around 575 bc. The indifference displayed by the three goddesses and the tranquil assurance of Paris' face indicate that this vase was among the first depictions of this subject. Following convention, the individuals are represented in profile. Details are incised or highlighted with colour and tend towards realism, notably on the clothes.\nOn face B there is a battle between two armoured hoplites, wielding spears, their legs protected by greaves, their heads by Corinthian helmets, their bodies by hopla (round shields, secured to the forearm by a central strap and moved with a handle.\n\nThe word \"amphora\" derives from the Greek \"amphi-\" (on both sides) and \"-phoros\" (carrier). They are terracotta vases of variable size with two vertical handles, by which they are carried on both sides, designed for the transport and storage of liquids (principally olive oil and wine). They could be painted on their bellies (as in this case).\n\nA large portion of Athenian pottery was produced by the Group of Haimon and the Leafless Group, and was carried thence to ports around the Mediterranean. The rest was produced for local use, specifically mixing, storing and transporting wine and oil.\n\nAttic pottery was valued in the sanctuaries of the Etruscans, where they had additional roles: cultic ritual, banqueting and votive offerings. These vases were bought specially for a given occasion and signified a dedication to a divinity. Generally, Attic cups were common while amphorae were rare.\n\nThe black figure technique is older than the red figure technique and continued alongside it. It was adopted by Athenian potters at the end of the seventh century BC and was still very novel in 580 BC. It remained in vogue until around 470.\n\nTo create this form of pottery, the vases were moulded on the potter's wheel, then dried in the open air and painted after a few hours. The outlines of the designs were produced with a diluted black \"varnish\" made of very fine clay. Initially the figures were painted as opaque silhouettes and allowed to dry. Then the layer of dried slip was scratched with a needle in order to create details (facial features, hair, musculature). At the same time the artists highlighted elements in red or white. Finally the vase was fired in three phases:\n\nIn the archaic period, amphorae display the veneration of gods and heroes in their representation of myths. This vase depicts the myth of the Judgement of Paris.\n\nAt the wedding of Peleus and Thetis, all the deities were invited except the goddess of discord, Eris. In revenge she threw a golden apple into the middle of the party, inscribed \"a gift for the most beautiful.\" Hermes picked up the apple and read out the inscription. All of the goddesses who considered themselves the most beautiful became jealous of one another. Zeus was unwilling to settle the debate lest he offend his wife, Hera, by judging in favour of another goddess. By mutual consent, the decision was given to the shepherd Paris.\n\nParis was a Trojan prince, a younger son of King Priam and his wife Hecuba. However, at his birth, an oracle announced that the future prince would cause the destruction of Troy. In fear, Priam ordered that the boy be killed and had Paris exposed on Mount Ida, where he was rescued by shepherds. Paris had to decide amongst:\n\nParis decides in favour of Aphrodite and receives the love of Helen, though she is already wife to Menelaos. His abduction of her brings about the Trojan War, in which he participates. Thus the two faces are related, with face A foreshadowing the dueling hoplites on face B.\n\nIn his work \"Art & Myth in Ancient Greece\", Thomas Carpenter compares this work with later representations of the myth. In short, Paris is here represented without his beard and trademark bow, attributes which he is depicted with in a near-contemporary krater made by Chalcidian colonists at Vulci around 540 BC and in most later depictions. Likewise Athena differs from the norm. She usually appears wearing her serpent-hemmed aegis and a helmet, as in an Attic Black figure hydria found at Vulci which was produced around 540 BC.\n"}
{"id": "185330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185330", "title": "Julius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer", "text": "Julius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer\n\nJulius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer is a weekly comic strip written and drawn by Ben Katchor since 1988. It is published in \"The Jewish Daily Forward\" and various alternative weekly newspapers.\n\nKatchor embodies his love of the fading small-business community of New York City in the title character, a small businessman who wanders the streets taking pictures and being sidetracked into surreal escapades. Strips often depict Knipl's chance encounters with obscure, marginal businesses (e.g. a company that distributes newspaper weights to newsstands), eccentric hobbyists, and enigmatic details of the urban landscape. There is rarely continuity between the strips, and Knipl is the only recurring character.\n\nA collection of \"Julius Knipl\" strips was published in 1991 by Penguin Books (as a \"RAW\" One-Shot) as \"Cheap Novelties: The Pleasures of Urban Decay\". Another collection was published in 1996 by Little, Brown and Company under the title \"Julius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer: Stories\". Pantheon Books published a third volume of strips, \"The Beauty Supply District\", in 2000. Each book includes one long story in addition to the self-contained weekly strips. Translated collections of the strip in French and Japanese have also been released.\n\nNPR's Weekend Edition Saturday ran audio versions of several Julius Knipl stories in 1995 and 1996, narrated by Katchor and starring Jerry Stiller in the title role.\n\nThe word \"knipl\" means roughly \"nest egg\" or housewife hidden savings in Yiddish.\n\nIn 1988 publisher Russ Smith approached \"Raw\" co-editor Art Spiegelman about comic strips for the weekly alternative newspaper \"New York Press\". Spiegelman recommended Katchor, whom he had published in \"Raw\". Katchor has since produced the strip weekly, and it has been carried by other alternative weeklies as well, such as \"The Forward\" and \"The Village Voice\".\n\nStrips from the series have appeared in the collections \"Cheap Novelties: The Pleasures of Urban Decay\" (1991), \"Julius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer: Stories\" (1996), \"Julius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer: The Beauty Supply\" (2000).\n\nKatchor draws the strip in a loose, sketchy pen-and-ink style overlaid with a gray watercolor wash. The backgrounds are detailed and drawn from a wide variety of shifting perspectives. A typical strip is made up of eight or nine panels captioned with crooked, hand-lettered boxes. The captions and drawings often follow independent narrative threads, sometimes with ironic effects, with the captions contradicting or reinforcing the visuals.\n\nThe dreamlike strip displays a nostalgic tone for New York City, and its Jewish heritage in particular. The strip's city is populated with small businesses that had never existed and that are often implausible, but remiscent of a New York in the days of large numbers of immigrants before the dominance of large corporate chains.\n\n"}
{"id": "2783063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2783063", "title": "Linguistic modality", "text": "Linguistic modality\n\nIn linguistics, modality is a feature of language that allows for communicating things about, or based on, situations which need not be actual. More precisely, modality is signaled by grammatical expressions (\"moods\") that express a speaker's general intentions (or illocutionary point) as well as the speaker's commitment to how believable, obligatory, desirable, or actual an expressed proposition is.\n\nSometimes, the term \"mood\" is used to refer to both mood and modality, however, the two can be distinguished according to whether they refer to the grammatical expressions of various modalities (\"mood\") or the meanings so expressed (\"modality\"). Modality can also be considered equivalent to the idea of \"illocutionary force\" if the kinds of expressions which can express modal meanings also include lexical items such as performative verbs.\n\nModality is closely intertwined with other linguistic phenomena such as tense and aspect, evidentiality, conditionals, and others. As with other areas of linguistics, modality has been studied extensively from typological as well as formal perspectives.\n\nAn important distinction within linguistic modality is the distinction between epistemic and deontic modality. Generally speaking, epistemic modality has to do with possibility and necessity with regard to knowledge, whereas deontic modality has to do with permission and obligation according to some system of rules. The difference between the two is illustrated in the English example below:\nThe sentence in (1) might be spoken by someone who has decided that all of the relevant facts in a particular murder investigation point to the conclusion that Agatha is the killer, even though it may or may not actually be the case. In contrast, (2) might be spoken by someone who has decided that, according to some standard of conduct, Agatha has committed a vile crime, and therefore the correct course of action is to kill Agatha. Note also that, although English \"must\" is ambiguous between these two interpretations, the form of the other elements in the sentences helps to disambiguate.\n\nIn standard formal approaches to linguistic modality, an utterance expressing modality is one that can always roughly be paraphrased to fit the following template:\n\nThe set of propositions which forms the basis of evaluation is called the modal base. The result of the evaluation is called the modal force.\nFor example the utterance in (2) expresses that, according to what the speaker has observed, it is necessary to conclude that John has a rather high income:\n\nThe modal base here is the knowledge of the speaker, the modal force is necessity. By contrast, (3) could be paraphrased as ‘Given his abilities, the strength of his teeth, etc., it is possible for John to open a beer bottle with his teeth’. Here, the modal base is defined by a subset of John's abilities, the modal force is possibility.\n\nA more elaborate account of formal semantic approaches to modality is given in section 1.\n\nCross-linguistically, modality can be expressed by a variety of means, such as auxiliary verbs as in the examples (2) and (3), verbal morphology (mood) or adverbs. An overview of the various modal expressions across languages is given below in section 2.\n\nTypological approaches to modality usually favour a slightly wider definition of modality and also include meanings which do not fit the template in (1) exactly. Section 3 provides an overview over the range of meanings commonly associated with modality.\n\nSemantic approaches dealing with modality are traditionally based on the principles of modal logic. Both work with the notion that propositions can be mapped to sets of possible worlds, that is, a proposition can be defined as the set of worlds in which that proposition is true. For example, the proposition ‘the earth is flat’ corresponds to the set of possible worlds in which the earth is in fact flat.\n\nIn this framework, modal expressions such as \"must\" and \"can\" are then analyzed as quantifiers over a set of possible worlds. This set of worlds is given by the modal base and is said to be \"the set of accessible worlds\": For example, in sentence (2) above, the modal base is the knowledge the speaker has in the actual world. Therefore, the set of accessible worlds is defined by the information the speaker has about John. Assume for example that the speaker knows that John just bought a new luxury car and has rented a huge apartment. The speaker also knows that John is an honest person with a humble family background and doesn't play the lottery.\nThe set of accessible worlds is then the set of worlds in which all these propositions which the speaker knows about John are true.\n\nThe notions of necessity and possibility are then defined along the following lines: A proposition \"p\" follows necessarily from the set of accessible worlds, if all accessible worlds are part of \"p\" (that is, if \"p\" is true in all of these worlds). Applied to the example in (2) this would mean that in all the worlds which are defined by the speaker's knowledge about John, it is the case that John earns a lot of money (assuming there is no other explanation for John's wealth).\n\nIn a similar way a proposition \"p\" is possible according to the set of accessible worlds (i.e. the modal base), if some of these worlds are part of \"p\".\n\nFor further reading, see for example Kratzer 1991, Kaufmann et al. 2006 and Portner 2009.\n\nIn many languages modal categories are expressed by verbal morphology. If these verbal markers of modality are obligatory in a language, they are called \"mood\" markers. Well-known examples of moods in some European languages are referred to as subjunctive, conditional and indicative as illustrated below with examples from French, all three with the verb \"avoir\" ‘to have’. As in most Standard European languages, the shape of the verb conveys not only information about modality, but also about other categories such as person and number of the subject.\n\nAn example for a non-European language with a similar encoding of modality is Manam. Here, a verb is prefixed by a morpheme which encodes number and person of the subject. These prefixes come in two versions, one \"realis\" version and one \"irrealis\" version. Which one is chosen depends on whether the verb refers to an actual past or present event (realis), or merely to a possible or imagined event (irrealis) (see Elliott 2000).\n\nModal auxiliary verbs, such as the English words \"may, can, must, ought, will, shall, need, dare, might, could, would,\" and \"should\", are often used to express modality, especially in the Germanic languages.\n\nVerbs such as \"want\" can be used to express modality lexically, as can adverbs.\n\nComplementizers (e.g. Russian) and conjunctions (e.g. Central Pomo, see Mithun 1995) can be used to convey modality.\n\nMany different kinds of modal interpretations have been observed and studied, resulting in a variety of typologies. What follows below is one of the many ways that modality has been classified. Only broad categories have been distinguished below: the reader is referred to the main articles and the references for more detailed discussions.\n\nThe closely related realis, declarative, and evidential moods refer to situations that actually exist, are claimed to exist, or are inferred to exist. In contrast, irrealis moods refer to situations that are not known to exist. Two common irrealis moods are the conditional mood, stating what would happen under a certain condition or conditions (expressed periphrastically in English as \"would\" + main verb), and the subjunctive mood, stating the speaker's preferences for what should occur (such as \"he leave\" in the English \"I demand that he leave\") or hypotheticals (such as English \"If I were to go...\").\n\nCounterfactuals refer to things that are contrary to the actual situation. In English, counterfactuals can be expressed implicitly in \"if\"-clauses by using a tense form that normally refers to a time prior to the time actually semantically referred to in the \"if\"-clause. For example, \"If I knew that, I wouldn't have to ask\" contains the counterfactual \"If I knew\", which refers to the present tense despite the form of the verb, and which denies the proposition \"I know that\". This contrasts with the construction \"If I know that...\", which is not a counterfactual because it means that maybe I know it and maybe I don't (or maybe I will know it, and maybe I will not). Likewise, \"If I had known that, I would have gone there\" contains the counterfactual \"If I had known\", denying the proposition that I had known; a note of caution on the above: the pluperfect verbal construction is sometimes mistakenly confused with the simple past, this is because most of the time the distinction has a very small effect on the semantic interpretation, and the incorrect logic that, through inertia, prior knowledge of X implies present knowledge of X, however this is not universal, (e.g. memory loss), a correct modal statement would look like \"prior knowledge of X \"usually\" implies present knowledge of X\". as with any subtlety, caution is prescribed.\n\nEpistemic modals are used to indicate the possibility or necessity of some piece of knowledge. It deals with the likelihood of the actualization of the state of affairs. In the epistemic use, modals can be interpreted as indicating inference or some other process of reasoning involved in coming to the conclusion stated in the sentence containing the modal. However, epistemic modals do not necessarily require inference, reasoning, or evidence. One effect of using an epistemic modal (as opposed to not using one) is a general weakening of the speaker's commitment to the truth of the sentence containing the modal. However, it is disputed whether the function of modals is to indicate this weakening of commitment, or whether the weakening is a by-product of some other aspect of the modal's meaning.\n\nExamples of the expression of epistemic modality in English are: \"he might be there\" (low probability, substantial doubt), \"He may be there\" (possibility), \"He should be there by now\" (high probability), and \"He must be there by now\" (certitude, no doubt).\n\nIn contrast, deontic modality is concerned with possibility and necessity in terms of freedom to act (including ability, permission, and duty). In other words, deontic modals state something about the desirability of the actualization of the state of affairs, expressed in varying degrees of obligation. English examples include \"She can go\" (ability), \"You may go\" (permission), \"You should go\" (request), and \"You must go\" (command). In English as in many other languages, some of the same words are used for deontic modality as for epistemic modality, and the meaning is distinguished from context: \"He must be there by now\" (epistemic) versus \"He must be there tomorrow at noon\" (deontic).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26025820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26025820", "title": "List of Joint Committees (UK Local Government)", "text": "List of Joint Committees (UK Local Government)\n\nThe appointment of committees and joint committees under s102 of the Local Government Act 1972 is a legal requirement for councils in England.\n\n"}
{"id": "462920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462920", "title": "Lustron house", "text": "Lustron house\n\nLustron houses are prefabricated enameled steel houses developed in the post-World War II era United States in response to the shortage of homes for returning GIs. Considered low-maintenance and extremely durable, they were expected to attract modern families who might not have the time or interest in repairing and painting conventional wood and plaster houses.\n\nIn January 1947, the newly formed Lustron Corporation announced that it had received a $12.5-million Reconstruction Finance Corporation loan to manufacture mass-produced prefabricated homes that featured enamel-coated steel panels (). Led by Chicago industrialist and inventor Carl Strandlund, who had worked with constructing prefabricated gas stations, Lustron offered a home that would \"defy weather, wear, and time.\"\n\nStrandlund's Lustron Corporation, a division of the Chicago Vitreous Enamel Corporation, set out to construct 15,000 homes in 1947 and 30,000 in 1948. From its plant in Columbus, Ohio (the former Curtiss-Wright factory), the corporation eventually constructed 2,498 Lustron homes between 1948 and 1950. The houses sold for between $8,500 and $9,500, according to a March 1949 article in the \"Columbus Dispatch\"—about 25 percent less than comparable conventional housing. By November 1949, however, a Lustron's average selling price had come up to $10,500.\n\nMost of the known Lustron houses were constructed in 36 of the United States including Alaska. However, some were constructed in Venezuela, South America for families of oil industry employees.\n\nBilled as a way to maximize pleasure and minimize work, Lustron advertising contended that the Lustron home would create a \"new and richer experience for the entire family,\" where \"Mother...has far more hours,\" the \"youngsters...have fewer worries,\" and there would be \"far more leisure for Dad.\" How this would be accomplished with just a choice of housing was not clarified, although presumably, it was through enameled-steel design that would not need painting.\n\nThe Lustron design was created to adapt it to mass production. A steel framing system was devised consisting of vertical steel studs and roof-ceiling trusses to which all interior and exterior panels were attached. The concept of prefabricated housing was well established by firms such as Alladin, Gordon-Van Tine, Montgomery Ward, and Sears in the early 1900s. These companies, however, used conventional balloon-framing techniques and materials in their kits. After WWII, the domestic demand for steel exceeded production and the federal government exercised control over its allocation. Strandlund had orders for his porcelain-enameled panels for use in construction for new gas stations for Standard Oil. He made a request for allocation of steel but was denied. However, he was advised by Wilson Wyatt, Housing Expediter during the Truman administration, that steel would be available if Strandlund produced steel houses instead of gas stations.\n\nWyatt endorsed the idea but was unable to convince Congressional members to appropriate funds for Strandlund. In turn, Wyatt resigned his post, but other influential members of Congress were successful in getting support to finance the production of Lustron homes. Through the government agency, Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC), Strandlund ultimately received over $37 million in loans plus a leased war surplus plant in Columbus, Ohio. This was the first venture capital loan made by the federal government. Initially, Strandlund was provided the availability of a war surplus plant in Chicago.\nHowever, due to the political intrigue in government, Tucker, who proposed to produce a radical new automobile, acquired the plant. In turn, Tucker shortly failed in his business operation. The political ramifications are as fascinating as the engineering of the Lustron homes.\nThe Lustron factory had approximately eight miles of automated conveyor lines and included 11 enameling furnaces, each of which was more than 180 feet long. The plant equipment included presses for tubs and sinks. The bathtub press could stamp a tub in one draw and could produce 1000 tubs a day at capacity. Specially designed trailer trucks were used as the final assembling point where the manufactured parts came off the assembly line. There were approximately 3300 individual parts in a complete house loaded on a single trailer. The trucks then delivered the house package to the building site.\n\nLustron established builder-dealers, which in turn sold and erected the house package on a concrete foundation. In 20 months of production and sales, Lustron lost money on each house, and in turn, was not able to repay the RFC loan. RFC foreclosed on Lustron and production stopped on June 6, 1950. On the Lustron order book were contracts for more than 8000 housing units, which were never shipped.\n\nArguably the most popular of the Lustron homes was the two bedroom, \"Westchester Deluxe\" model. In total, there were three \"models\" of Lustrons: the Westchester, Newport, and Meadowbrook. With the exception of the Esquire (which had been the prototype's name) each Lustron type was available as either a two- or three-bedroom model.\n\nPrefabricated housing had existed before the Lustron home came on the market. However, it was Lustron's promises of assembly-line efficiency and modular construction that set it apart from its competitors. The homes were designed by Morris Beckman of Chicago firm Beckman and Blass, and may have been loosely based on designs for the Cemesto houses in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. With enameled steel panels inside and out, as well as steel framing, the homes stood out next to more traditional dwellings made of wood and plaster.\n\nLustron homes were usually built on concrete slab foundations with no basement. However, about 40 Lustron homes have been reported to have basements. Their sturdy steel frame was constructed on-site and the house was assembled piece-by-piece from a special Lustron Corporation delivery truck. The assembly team, who worked for the local Lustron builder-dealer followed a special manual from Lustron, and were supposed to complete a house in 360 man-hours.\n\nThe Ohio Historic Preservation Office recognizes four exterior colors: \"Surf Blue,\" \"Dove Gray,\" \"Maize Yellow,\" and \"Desert Tan.\" Reported in error over the years is that Blue-Green, Green, Pink, and White were available. Window surrounds were primarily ivory-colored, although early models used yellow trim on \"Surf Blue\" models.\n\nThe interiors were designed with an eye toward the modern age, space-saving, and ease of cleaning. All Lustrons had metal-paneled interior walls that were most often gray. To maximize space, all interior rooms and closets featured pocket doors. All models featured metal cabinetry, a service and storage area, and metal ceiling tiles. In the Westchester Deluxe models, the living room and master bedrooms featured built-in wall units. As an added option, customers were presented with the unique Thor-brand combination clothes- and dish-washer, which incorporated the kitchen sink.\n\nThere were two major window types in Lustron homes: “tripartite” and casement, all manufactured by Reynolds Aluminum. The tripartite consisted of a central light flanked by two four-light casement windows. Three-light and/or square aluminum casements with interior screens were standard on all Lustrons. Add-on storm windows were available for residents in colder climates.\n\nWestchester Deluxe two- and three-bedroom models were unique in that they boasted a tripartite bay window in the living room area: no other Lustron line included this feature. In Westchester Deluxe two-bedroom models, additional tripartite windows were located in the dining area and bedrooms. For Westchester Deluxe three-bedroom models, tripartite windows were found in the dining area and two of the bedrooms, as well as the living room bay. Though the Westchester Standard line had no bay windows, it had tripartite windows in the same rooms as the Westchester Deluxe two-bedroom model.\n\nNewport two- and three-bedroom models, which had no bay windows, offered tripartite windows in the dining/living room area. A model of the Meadowbrook home shows that the design would have provided two tripartite windows, both in the dining/living room area, similar to those in the Newport line.\n\nThe roof likewise consisted of porcelain-enameled steel tiles, which were installed shingle-style. The front and rear doors featured a single light of translucent, rippled glass. As seen in the chart above, floors in the Westchester Deluxe models were asphalt tile, but in other models (Westchester Standard, Newport, and Meadowbrook), floors were installed as a “builder's option.”\n\nIn most models, the homes were heated with an oil burning furnace that directed hot air into an enclosed space above the metal ceilings. The walls contained a one-inch blanket of fiberglass wool insulation. Later production models of the Newport use a forced-air system.\n\nAmong noteworthy Lustron exterior features are the siding consisting of square segments of material, followed by a zig-zag downspout trellis on the buildings' front and rear corners. In the two-bedroom Westchester models, the downspout attaches via the trellis to a pillar that supports the open porch. Rust has often led to removal of the trellis by owners.\n\nThe Lustron Corporation declared bankruptcy in 1950, despite being an extremely well funded, well-publicized, government-supported enterprise manufacturing a desperately needed product. Production delays, the lack of a viable distribution strategy, and the escalating prices for the finished product all contributed to the failure. Additionally, local zoning codes also played a part. In some municipalities, for example, an ordinance prohibited homes with steel chimneys. Some accounts suggest an organized effort from the existing housing industry to stop Strandlund, comparing him to Preston Tucker (ironic, because Strandlund's first choice for the Lustron factory building, the Dodge Chicago Aircraft Engine Plant in Illinois, was actually granted to Tucker to build his automobiles).\n\nThe largest assembly of Lustrons in one geographic location was in Quantico, Virginia, where 60 were installed at the U.S. Marine Corps military base. All Westchester Deluxe models, they came all four colors.\" Major remodels in the 1980s resulted in some of them being painted pink and lime green. In January 2006, it was announced that the homes, which had grown \"too small for most families,\" would be eliminated from base housing and would be given away. Fifty-eight of Quantico's Lustrons were offered for free (with an application and $8,000 deposit) in 2006, yet only one individual came forward and acquired a home, which was disassembled and moved to storage in Delaware. Twenty-three of Quantico's Lustrons were demolished in 2006, and an additional thirty-four homes were razed in 2007. The two remaining homes at the base are on the National Register of Historic Places, and are currently used as maintenance buildings.\n\nAbout 2,000 Lustron homes are still in existence in 36 states. Many have been modified with additions, remodeled kitchens, vinyl windows, composite roofs, new heating systems, sheet rock interior walls, painted exteriors, and siding. Some have been dismantled, relocated and reassembled.\n\nA restored Westchester Deluxe (sans ceiling and roof) from Arlington, Virginia, was reassembled inside the Ohio History Connection in Columbus, Ohio, in 2013. It had been partially assembled (no bedrooms) for a few months in the Museum of Modern Art (MOMA) in Manhattan. The house is on display until December 2018 in Columbus.\n\nA small group of Lustron owners are preserving the original condition of their homes and are urging others to do the same, and a significant number of entirely original Lustron homes exist. Over time, Lustron owners often removed the \"Thor\" brand combination washing machine/dish washer, and in cold regions, the ceiling's radiant heat systems were often replaced.\n\nDemolition continues to threaten Lustrons where rising property values attract buyers who desire larger homes of newer construction. Other major threats to Lustron homes' integrity include: severe weather (tornadoes, hurricanes), vehicular or other impact, and lack of local zoning/preservation/aesthetic legislation.\n\nLombard, Illinois, in Dupage County had the most Lustron houses at 36. In Mount Morris, IL, 13 of the town's 18 Lustrons are located on Sunset Lane, First Street and Hannah Avenue, within walking distance of one another. There is one Lustron house included as a contributing property in the Euclid Avenue Historic District at Bristol, Virginia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7086429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7086429", "title": "Malcolm David Eckel", "text": "Malcolm David Eckel\n\nMalcolm David Eckel is Professor of Religion and Director of the Institute for Philosophy and Religion at Boston University. He received a B.A. from Harvard University, a B.A. and M.A. from Oxford University, and a Ph.D. in the Study of Religion from Harvard. His scholarly interests include the history of Buddhist philosophy in India and Tibet, the relationship between Buddhism and other Indian religions, the expansion and adaptation of Buddhism in Asia and the West, Buddhist narrative traditions and their relationship to Buddhist ethics, and the connection between philosophical theory and religious practice. His teaching at Boston University has been recognized by the \"Metcalf Award for Teaching Excellence\" (1998), and he has served as the Distinguished Teaching Professor of the Humanities (2002-5). He also has served as Assistant Dean and Director of the Core Curriculum (2007–13), an integrated program in the liberal arts for first- and second-year students in the College of Arts and Sciences.\n\nHis publications include \"Bhāviveka and His Buddhist Opponents\" (Harvard); \"Buddhism: Origins, Beliefs, Practices, Holy Texts, Sacred Places\" (Oxford); \"To See the Buddha: A Philosopher's Quest for the Meaning of Emptiness\" (Princeton); \"Jnanagarbha's Commentary on the Distinction Between the Two Truths: An Eighth-Century Handbook of Madhyamaka Philosophy\" (State University of New York); and \"Is There a Buddhist Philosophy of Nature?\" in \"Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Buddhism and Ecology\" (Harvard Center for the Study of World Religions). He is the editor of two volumes of essays: \"India and The West: The Problem of Understanding\" (Harvard Center for the Study of World Religions) and \"Deliver Us from Evil\" (Continuum).\n\nBefore joining the faculty at Boston University, he served as Associate Professor at Harvard Divinity School and as Administrative Director of the Harvard Center for the Study of World Religions. He recently returned to Harvard to serve on the Visiting Committee of Harvard Divinity School. In 2013, he was invited to deliver a series of lectures entitled “Modes of Recognition: Aspects of Theory in Mahayana Buddhist Narrative” as Visiting Professor in Buddhist Studies at the University of Sydney, Australia.\n\nHe leads tours for Far Horizons Archaeological and Cultural trips\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52366715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52366715", "title": "Matupi Cave", "text": "Matupi Cave\n\nMatupi Cave is a cave in the Mount Hoyo massif of the Ituri Rainforest, Democratic Republic of the Congo, where archaeologists have found evidence for Later Stone Age human occupation spanning over 40,000 years. The cave has some of the earliest evidence in the world for microlithic tool technologies. \n"}
{"id": "1430042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1430042", "title": "Naskh (script)", "text": "Naskh (script)\n\nThe root of this Arabic term \"\" () means \"to copy\". It either refers to the fact that it replaced its predecessor, Kufic script, or that this style allows faster copying of texts. \n\nThis type of script was derived from Thuluth by introducing a number of modifications resulting in smaller size and greater delicacy. It is written using a small, very fine pen known as a cava pen, which makes the script eminently suitable for use in book production. Naskhi was used in copying Qur'ans, Delails, En-ams and Hadiths. It was also used in commentaries on the Qur'an (Tafsir) and in collections of poetry (diwan). It was and is a very widely used form of script.\n\nWith major simplifications, such as reduction of script rules and forced horizontal alignment, this is the style most commonly used for printing Arabic, Persian, Pashto and Sindhi languages and for representations of the Arabic alphabet by computer fonts.\nNaskh, along with Ta'liq, notably also gave rise to Nasta'līq, the style of script used for writing Urdu, Persian, Punjabi, Kashmiri, and sometimes Pashto and Uyghur.\n\n"}
{"id": "12153870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12153870", "title": "Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology", "text": "Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology\n\nThe Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology (formerly the Lowie Museum of Anthropology) is an anthropology museum located in Berkeley, California on the University of California, Berkeley campus. \n\nFounded in 1901 under the patronage of Phoebe Apperson Hearst, the original goal of the museum was to support systematic collecting efforts by archaeologists and ethnologists in order to support a department of Anthropology at the University of California. The Museum was originally located in San Francisco from 1903 (open to the public as of 1911) until 1931, when it moved to the campus of the University of California, Berkeley. On the Berkeley campus, the Museum was located in the former Civil Engineering Building until 1959, when it was moved to the newly built Kroeber Hall. In 1991, the Museum's name was changed to recognize the essential role of Phoebe Apperson Hearst as founder and patron. Today the Museum functions as a research unit of the University of California. \n\nMany notable names in American anthropology have been associated with the Museum. These include the Museum’s first director Frederic Ward Putnam, the anthropologists Alfred L. Kroeber, Robert Lowie, and William Bascom, paleoanthropologists Francis Clark Howell and Tim D. White, Egyptologists Klaus Baer and Cathleen Keller, and archaeologists Max Uhle, George Reisner, John Howland Rowe, J. Desmond Clark, David Stronach, Crawford Hallock Greenewalt, Jr. and Patrick Vinton Kirch. It was also the final residence of Ishi, who lived there from 1911 until his death in 1916.\n\nThe Museum houses an estimated 3 million objects plus extensive documentation that includes fieldnotes, photographs, and sound and film recordings.\n\nMajor collections include:\n\n\nIn addition to supporting scholarly research and publication, the museum mounts exhibitions in a gallery located on the UC Berkeley campus, sponsors public educational programs, and works with Native American communities on issues related to cultural property and repatriation.\n\nThe Phoebe A. Hearst Museum of Anthropology is accredited by the American Alliance of Museums.\n\nThe Hearst Museum's directors have regularly been practicing anthropologists. Here is a list of their names with the dates of their service:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10412265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10412265", "title": "Policy studies", "text": "Policy studies\n\nPolicy studies is a subdisicipline of political science that includes the analysis of the process of policymaking (the policy process) and the contents of policy (policy analysis). Policy analysis includes substantive area research (such as health or education policy), program evaluation and impact studies, and policy design. It \"involves systematically studying the nature, causes, and effects of alternative public policies, with particular emphasis on determining the policies that will achieve given goals.\" It emerged in the United States in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nPolicy Studies also examines the conflicts and conflict resolution that arise from the making of policies in civil society, the private sector, or more commonly, in the public sector (e.g. government).\n\nIt frequently focuses on the public sector but is equally applicable to other kinds of organizations (e.g., the not-for-profit sector). Some policy study experts graduate from public policy schools with public policy degrees. Alternatively, experts may have backgrounds in policy analysis, program evaluation, sociology, psychology, philosophy, economics, anthropology, geography, law, political science, social work, environmental planning and public administration.\n\nTraditionally, the field of policy studies focused on domestic policy, with the notable exceptions of foreign and defense policies. However, the wave of economic globalization, which ensued in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, created a need for a subset of policy studies that focuses on global governance, especially as it relates to issues that transcend national borders such as climate change, terrorism, nuclear proliferation, and economic development. This subset of policy studies, which is often referred to as international policy studies, typically requires mastery of a second language and attention to cross-cultural issues in order to address national and cultural biases. For example, the Monterey Institute of International Studies at Middlebury College offers Master of Arts programs that focus exclusively on international policy through a mix of interdisciplinary and cross-cultural analysis called the \"Monterey Way\". Examples of academic programs in policy studies include the Harvard Kennedy School and the LBJ School of Public Affairs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1678827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1678827", "title": "Political satire", "text": "Political satire\n\nPolitical satire is satire that specializes in gaining entertainment from politics; it has also been used with subversive intent where political speech and dissent are forbidden by a regime, as a method of advancing political arguments where such arguments are expressly forbidden.\n\nPolitical satire is usually distinguished from political protest or political dissent, as it does not necessarily carry an agenda nor seek to influence the political process. While occasionally it may, it more commonly aims simply to provide entertainment. By its very nature, it rarely offers a constructive view in itself; when it is used as part of protest or dissent, it tends to simply establish the error of matters rather than provide solutions.\n\nSatire can be traced back throughout history; wherever organized government, or social categories, has existed, so has satire.\n\nThe oldest example that has survived till today is Aristophanes. In his time satire targeted top politicians, like Cleon, and religion, at the time headed by Zeus. \"Satire and derision progressively attacked even the fundamental and most sacred facts of faith,\" leading to an increased doubt towards religion by the general population. The Roman period, for example, gives us the satirical poems and epigrams of Martial. Cynic philosophers often engaged in political satire.\n\nDue to lack of political freedom of speech in many ancient civilizations, covert satire is more usual than overt satire in ancient literatures of political liberalism. Historically, the public opinion in the Athenian democracy was remarkably influenced by the political satire performed by the comic poets at the theatres. Watching or reading satire has since ancient time been considered one of the best ways to understand a culture and a society.\n\nDuring the 20th and 21st Centuries satire is found in an increasing number of media (in cartoons as political cartoons with heavy caricature and exaggeration, and in political magazines) and the parallel exposure of political scandals to performances (including television shows). Examples include musicians such as Tom Lehrer, live performance groups like the Capitol Steps and the Montana Logging and Ballet Co., and public television and live performer Mark Russell. Additional subgenres include such literary classics as \"Gulliver's Travels\" and \"Animal Farm\", and more recently, internet \"Ezine\" and website sources such as \"The Onion\".\n\nOne example is Maurice Joly's 1864 pamphlet entitled \"The Dialogue in Hell Between Machiavelli and Montesquieu\" (\"Dialogue aux enfers entre Machiavel et Montesquieu\"), which attacks the political ambitions of Napoleon III. It was first published in Brussels in 1864. The piece used the literary device of a dialogue between two diabolical plotters in Hell, the historical characters of Machiavelli and Montesquieu, to cover up a direct, and illegal, attack on Napoleon's rule. The noble baron Montesquieu made the case for liberalism; the Florentine political writer Machiavelli presented the case for cynical despotism. In this manner, Joly communicated the secret ways in which liberalism might spawn a despot like Napoleon III. However, \"The Prince\" itself has also been sometimes understood as political satire.\n\nAccording to Santayana, Nietzsche was actually \"a keen satirist\".\n\"Nietzsche's satire\" was aimed at Lutheranism.\n\nThe UK has a long tradition of political satire, dating from the early years of English literature. In some readings, a number of William Shakespeare's plays can be seen – or at least performed – as satire, including \"Richard III\" and \"The Merchant of Venice\". Later examples such as Jonathan Swift's \"A Modest Proposal\" are more outright in their satirical nature.\n\nIn modern era, political satire in the United Kingdom includes pamphlets and newspaper articles, such as \"Private Eye\", topical television panel shows such as \"Have I Got News for You\", and television series such as \"Yes Minister\", \"House of Cards\" and \"The Thick of It\" and \"ToryBoy The Movie\".\n\nSatire became more visible on American television during the 1960s. Some of the early shows that used political satire include the British and American versions of the program \"That Was the Week That Was\" (airing on the American Broadcasting Company, or ABC, in the U.S.), CBS's \"The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour\", and NBC's \"Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In\". During the months leading up to the 1968 presidential election, Richard Nixon appeared on \"Laugh-In\" and repeated the program's catch-phrase \"Sock it to me.\" Other forms of satire of the 1960s and early 1970s typically used the sitcom format, such as the show \"All in the Family\".\n\nWhen \"Saturday Night Live\" debuted in 1975, the show began to change the way that comedians would depict the president on television. Chevy Chase opened the fourth episode of the show with his impersonation of a bumbling Gerald Ford. Chase did not change his appearance to look like President Ford, and he portrayed the president by repeatedly falling down on the stage. Some of the other famous presidential impersonations on \"Saturday Night Live\" include Dan Aykroyd's Richard Nixon and Jimmy Carter caricatures, Dana Carvey as George H. W. Bush, Darrell Hammond as Bill Clinton, Will Ferrell as George W. Bush, and Jay Pharoah as Barack Obama. Hammond was the first cast member to impersonate Donald Trump, but now Alec Baldwin portrays him.\n\nDuring the 2008 presidential campaign, \"Saturday Night Live\" gained wide attention because former cast member Tina Fey returned to the show to satirize Republican Vice Presidential candidate Sarah Palin. In addition to Fey's striking physical resemblance to Palin, the impersonation of the vice presidential candidate was also noteworthy because of Fey's humorous use of some of exactly the same words Palin used in media interviews and campaign speeches as a way to perform political satire.\n\n\"Saturday Night Live\" also uses political satire throughout its \"Weekend Update\" sketch. \"Weekend Update\" is a fake news segment on the show that satirizes politics and current events. It has been a part of \"SNL\" since the first episode of the show on October 11, 1975.\n\n\"The Daily Show\" and \"The Colbert Report\" use stylistic formats that are similar to \"Weekend Update\". On \"The Daily Show\", host Jon Stewart used footage from news programs to satirize politics and the news media. Stephen Colbert performed in character on \"The Colbert Report\" as a right-wing news pundit. Both hosts' television programs were broadcast on Comedy Central, while \"The Daily Show\" continues to run featuring a new host. Colbert became the host of \"The Late Show\", succeeding David Letterman. With their shows, Stewart and Colbert helped increase public and academic discussion of the significance of political satire. \"Last Week Tonight with John Oliver\" and \"The Jim Jefferies Show\" are also examples of political commentary.\n\nAccording to the findings of the 2004 Pew Survey, both younger and older audiences are turning to late-night comedy shows as not only a source of entertainment, but also for an opportunity to gain political awareness. For this reason, Geoffrey Baym suggests that shows that make use of political satire, such as \"The Daily Show\", should be considered as a form of alternative journalism. Utilizing satire has shown to be an attractive feature in news programming, drawing in the audiences of less politically engaged demographic cohorts. Moreover, satire news programming can be considered alternative because satire plays an important role in dissecting and critiquing power.\n\nIn his article \"The Daily Show: Discursive Integration and the Reinvention of Political Journalism\", Baym detailed how \"The Daily Show\", then hosted by Jon Stewart, presented news stories. For the satire news show, presenting information in a comprehensive manner was used to give viewers a greater perspective of a situation. Often, Stewart studded his segments with additional background information, or reminders of relevant and past details. For example, \"The Daily Show\" displayed the full video of Bush's comments regarding Tenet's resignation in 2004. This was a deliberate choice by the show in attempt to give a more sincere representation of the event. Moreover, it can be seen as a challenge and critique of what more traditional news shows failed to include. In this way, satire news can be seen as more informative than other news sources. Notably, research findings released by National Annenberg Election Survey (NAES) concede that followers of satire news are more knowledgeable and consume more news than the general population.\n\nMeanwhile, Joseph Faina has considered the satire used in news shows as a facilitator in developing a public journalism practice. Faina explains in his article that the nature of satire encourages viewers to become politically engaged, and a civic participant, in which the humor exercised by hosts elicit responses in viewers. However, Faina has acknowledged that this model is somewhat idealistic. Nevertheless, Faina argues that the potential still exists. Not to mention, with the rise in technology and the growing ubiquity of cellular phones, it can be argued that civic participation is all the more easier to accomplish.\n\nThough satire in news is celebrated as a vehicle toward a more informed public, such view is not universally shared among scholars. Critics have expressed their hesitancy toward the infiltration of lighthearted practices to cover more dire topics like political affair. Potentially off-color remarks, or vulgar comments made by the likes of Stephen Colbert of \"The Late Show with Stephen Colbert\", or Samantha Bee, host of \"Full Frontal with Samantha Bee\", can be used as examples of what critics are concerned over. Here, satire is believed to diminish the gravity of a topic.\n\nBaym proposes that as these shows are alternative, they have no obligation to \"abide by standard practices\". Unlike traditional news sources, which may be required to adhere to certain agendas, like political affiliation or advertising restrictions, hosts of satire news shows are free and zealous to showcase personal contributions through their mentions of disdain, qualms, and excitement. Critics of satire in news shows thus believe that the showcasing of an overly and openly frustrated host will induce or perpetuate \"cynicism in viewers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34032792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34032792", "title": "Prediction in language comprehension", "text": "Prediction in language comprehension\n\nLinguistic prediction is a phenomenon in psycholinguistics occurring whenever information about a word or other linguistic unit is activated before that unit is actually encountered. Evidence from eyetracking, event-related potentials, and other experimental methods indicates that in addition to integrating each subsequent word into the context formed by previously encountered words, language users may, under certain conditions, try to predict upcoming words. \nIn particular, prediction seems to occur regularly when the context of a sentence greatly limits the possible words that have not yet been revealed. For instance, a person listening to a sentence like, \"In the summer it is hot, and in the winter it is...\" would be highly likely to predict the sentence completion \"cold\" in advance of actually hearing it. A form of prediction is also thought to occur in some types of lexical priming, a phenomenon whereby a word becomes easier to process if it is preceded by a related word. Linguistic prediction is an active area of research in psycholinguistics and cognitive neuroscience.\n\nIn the eyetracking visual world paradigm, experimental subjects listen to a sentence while staring at an array of pictures on a computer monitor. Their eye movements are recorded, allowing the experimenter to understand how language influences eye movements toward pictures related to the content of the sentence. Experiments of this type have shown that while listening to the verb in a sentence, comprehenders anticipatorily move their eyes to the picture of the verb's likely direct object (e.g. \"cake\" rather than \"ball\" while hearing, \"The boy will eat...\"). Subsequent investigations using the same experimental setup showed that the verb's subject can also determine which object comprehenders anticipate (e.g., comprehenders look at the merry-go-round rather than the motorcycle while hearing, \"The little girl will ride...\"). \nIn short, comprehenders use the information in the sentence context to predict the meanings of upcoming words. In these experiments, comprehenders used the verb and its subject to activate information about the verb's direct object before hearing that word. However, another experiment has shown that in a language with more flexible word order (German), comprehenders can also use context to predict the sentence's subject.\n\nEyetracking technology has also been used to monitor readers' eye movements while they read text on a computer screen. Data from this kind of experiment has supported the hypothesis that readers use contextual information to predict upcoming words during natural reading. Specifically, readers fixate their eyes on a word for a shorter time when the word occurs in a moderately or highly constraining context, compared to the same word in an unconstrained context. This is true regardless of the word's frequency or length. Readers are also more likely to skip over a word in a highly constraining context only. Subsequent investigations of reading in the Chinese logographic script have shown that despite the large differences between the Chinese and English orthographies, readers exploit contextual information for prediction in similar ways, with the exception that Chinese readers were more likely to skip words in moderately constraining contexts.\n\nComputational models of eye movements during reading, which model data related to word predictability, include Reichle and colleagues' E-Z Reader model and Engbert and colleagues' SWIFT model.\n\nThe M100 discussed here is the magnetic equivalent of the visual N1 potential—an event-related potential linked to visual processing and attention. The M100 was also linked to prediction in language comprehension in a series of event-related magnetoencephalography (MEG) experiments. In these experiments, participants read words whose visual forms were either predictable or unpredictable based on prior linguistic context or based on a recently seen picture. The predictability of the word's visual form (but not the predictability of its meaning) affected the amplitude of the M100. \nThere is ongoing controversy about whether this M100 effect is related to the early left anterior negativity (eLAN), an event-related potential response to words that is theorized to reflect the brain's assignment of local phrase structure.\n\nThe P2 component is generally thought to reflect higher-order perceptual processing and its modulation by attention. However, it has also been linked to prediction of visual word forms. The P2 response to words in highly constraining contexts is often larger than the P2 response to words in less constraining contexts. When experimental participants read words that are presented to the left or right of their visual fixation (stimulating the opposite hemisphere of the brain first), the larger P2 for words in highly constraining contexts is observed only for right visual field presentation (targeting left hemisphere). This is consistent with the PARLO hypothesis that linguistic prediction is mainly a function of the left hemisphere, discussed below.\n\nThe N400 is part of the normal ERP response to potentially meaningful stimuli, whose amplitude is inversely correlated with the predictability of a stimuli in a particular context. In sentence processing, the predictability of a word is established by two related factors: 'cloze probability' and 'sentential constraint'. Cloze probability reflects the expectancy of a target word given the context of the sentence, which is determined by the percentage of individuals who supply the word when completing a sentence whose final word is missing. Kutas and colleagues found that the N400 to sentences final words with cloze probability of 90% was smaller (i.e., more positive) than the N400 for words with cloze probability of 70%, which was then smaller for words with cloze probability of 30%.\nClosely related, sentential constraint reflects the degree to which the context of the sentence constrains the number of acceptable continuations. Whereas cloze probability is the percent of individuals who choose a particular word, constraint is the number of different words chosen by a representative sample of individuals. Although words that are not predicted elicit a larger N400, the N400 to unpredicted words that are semantically related to the predicted word elicit a smaller N400 than when the unpredicted words are semantically unrelated. When the sentence context is highly constraining, semantically related words receive further facilitation in that the N400 to semantically related words is smaller in high constraint sentences than in low constraint sentences.\nEvidence for the prediction of specific words comes from a study by DeLong et al. DeLong and colleagues took advantage of the use of different indefinite articles, 'A' and 'AN' for English words that begin with a consonant or vowel respectively. They found that when the most probable sentence completion began with a consonant, the N400 was larger for 'AN' than for 'A' and vice versa, suggesting that prediction occurs at both a semantic and lexical level during language processing.\n\nThe P300, specifically the P3b is an ERP response to improbable stimuli and is sensitive to the subjective probability that a particular stimulus will occur. The P300 has been closely tied to context updating, which can be initiated by unexpected stimuli.\n\nThe P600 an ERP response to syntactic violations, as well as complex, but error free, language. A P600-like response is also observed for thematically implausible sentences: example, \"For breakfast, the eggs would only EAT toast and jam\". Both P600 responses are generally attributed to the process of revising or continuing the analysis of the sentence. The syntactic P600 has been compared to the P300 in that both responses are sensitive to similar manipulations; importantly, the probability of the stimulus. The similarity between the two responses may suggest that the P300 significantly contributes to the syntactic P600 response.\n\nA late positivity is often observed subsequent to the N400. Recent meta-analysis of the ERP literature on language processing has identified two different Post-N400 Positivities. In comparing the Post-N400 Positivity (PNP) for congruent and incongruent sentence final words, a parietal PNP is observed for incongruent words. This parietal PNP is similar to the typical P600 response, suggesting continued or revised analysis. Within the congruent condition, when comparing high- and low-cloze probability sentence final words, a PNP response (if it is observed) is generally distributed across the front of the scalp. A recent study has shown that the frontal PNP may reflect processing an unexpected lexical item instead of an unexpected concept, suggesting that the frontal PNP reflects disconfirmed lexical predictions.\n\nFunctional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a neuroimaging technology that uses nuclear magnetic resonance to measure blood oxygenation levels in the brain and spinal cord. Because neural activity affects blood flow, the pattern of the hemodynamic response is thought to correspond closely to the pattern of neural activity. The fine spatial resolution afforded by fMRI allows cognitive neuroscientists to see in detail which areas of the brain are activated in relation to an experimental task. However, the hemodynamic response is much slower than the neural activity measured by EEG and MEG. This poor sensitivity to timing information makes fMRI a less useful technique than EEG or eyetracking for studying linguistic prediction.\nOne exception is an fMRI test of the differences in neural activation between strategic and automatic semantic priming. When the time between the prime and the target word is short (around 150 milliseconds), priming is theorized to rely on automatic neural processes. However, at longer time intervals (approaching 1 second), it is thought that experimental subjects strategically predict related upcoming words and suppress unrelated words, leading to a processing penalty in the event that an unrelated word actually occurs. An fMRI test of this hypothesis showed that at longer intervals, the processing penalty for an incorrect prediction is related to heightened activity in the anterior cingulate gyrus and Broca's area.\n\nThe PARLO (\"Production Affects Reception in Left Only\") framework is a theory of the neural domains supporting language prediction. It is based on evidence that shows that the left and right hemispheres differentially contribute to language comprehension. Generally, the neural structures that support language production are predominantly in the left hemisphere for most individuals creating an hemispheric asymmetry, which results in differential language processing abilities of the two hemispheres. Because of its spatially close ties and intergation with language production, left hemisphere language comprehension seems to be driven by expectancy and context in a top-down manner, whereas the right hemisphere seems to integrate information in a bottom-up manner. The PARLO framework suggests that both prediction and integration occur during language processing but rely on the distinct contributions of the two hemispheres of the brain.\n\nThe surprisal theory is a theory of sentence processing based on information theory. In the surprisal theory, the cost of processing a word is determined by its self-information, or how predictable the word is, given its context. A highly probable word carries a small amount of self-information and would therefore be processed easily, as measured by reduced reaction time, a smaller N400 response, or reduced fixation times in an eyetracking reading study. Empirical tests of this theory have shown a high degree of match between processing cost measures and the self-information values assigned to words.\n"}
{"id": "15481512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15481512", "title": "Research Centre for East European Studies", "text": "Research Centre for East European Studies\n\nThe Research Centre for East European Studies (\"Forschungsstelle Osteuropa\") at the University of Bremen was founded in 1982. Under the directorship of Professor Wolfgang Eichwede, it has since then carved its own distinctive niche within the German academic community through an intensive study of recent developments in the culture and society of Central and East European countries.\n\nFollowing the collapse of Communist rule, the institutes's research concentrated both on the cultural and socio-political continuities across the period of upheaval, and on the newly emerging potential for innovation in political and economic culture and cultural identity. In contrast to the predominantly economic approach to the transformation taking place in Eastern and Central Eastern Europe, the Research Centre places the traditions and potential of the region at the centre of attention. The institute endeavors to enable an understanding of the countries from the inside, and in this way make a genuine contribution to the drawing together of Europe.\n\nEven before the radical political changes this was one of the tasks of the Research Centre: during the 1980s, it gave attention above all to the appearance of independent artistic and intellectual creativity. The focus on dissident culture was intertwined with the aspiration to track informal tendencies and intellectual approaches which could give an insight into the societies of the region. Alongside its research, the institute was able to build up a comprehensive and internationally renowned archive of Samizdat literature. It contains banned or unofficial artistic, literary and academic writings from Poland, the Soviet Union, Czechoslovakia, Hungary and the GDR (East Germany). The Russian collection also includes the private archives of leading Russian figures. A third branch of the institutes's activity is public work in the form of cultural and political consultancy in Germany and abroad.\n\nThe Research Centre has charitable status and is registered in the federal states of Bremen, Hamburg and North Rhine-Westphalia. It was initially funded by the Volkswagen Foundation, but since 1986/7 it has received subsidies from the joint committee of the educational ministries of the German federal republics. The institute is closely connected with the University of Bremen, not only in that it is situated on the site of the university, but also in that its director holds a professorial chair at the university, and through concrete agreements and cooperation. The Research Centre has three subdivisions: research, the archive and library and public work in the form of cultural and political consultancy.\n\nUsing its extensive archive, which contains well in excess of 150,000 Samizdat documents and more than 300 private archives, the Research Centre organised a series of large-scale exhibitions titled \"Samizdat. Alternative Culture in Central and Eastern Europe from the 1960s to the 1980s\". The exhibition in Berlin was opened by the mayor of Budapest and former human rights activist Gábor Demszky, that in Prague by the presidents of Germany and Czechoslovakia Johannes Rau and Václav Havel, in Brussels by the EU commissioner Günter Verheugen and in Budapest by the German foreign minister Joschka Fischer. The exhibitions were received enthusiastically by the public. In Prague alone there were 75,000 visitors.\n\nThe Research Centre has built on this success by putting together another exhibition \"Counterviews. Photographs of the Political and Cultural Opposition in Eastern Europe 1956-1989\". It takes the form of a touring exhibition which at present travels throughout Europe.\n\nAlongside comprehensive individual research projects on dissent and society throughout Eastern and Central Eastern Europe, a joint research association funded by the Volkswagen Foundation has started its work in collaboration with institutes in Moscow, Warsaw, Poznan, Prague and Budapest on the topic \"‘The other Europe – the 1960s-1980s. Dissent in Politics and Society; Cultural Alternatives. Contributions to a Comparative History’\". In this way, the Research Centre in cooperation with other German universities and partner organizations in the USA and Western Europe will become an important centre for the study of the contemporary history of the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.\n\nAt the moment a database is being created for the unique collections within the Bremen archive, which on account of its use of five different languages resembles a large-scale pilot project. A regular series of publications giving an overview of the contents of the archive will be forthcoming in 2008.\n\nIn this area, the most notable research projects have in the past few years dealt with economic culture and informal politics. The topics investigated included taxation, the role of trust in business relations, the political influence of companies and the development of corporate governance. The majority of these projects were made possible through third-party funds.\n\nOther recent areas of research (some of which were comparative) include the development of a new state symbolism in Russia and Slovakia, processes of the construction of identity and the politics of history in Poland, the Czech Republic and Russia. In addition, there are individual studies on various countries and regions.\n\nA new focal point is the integration of the former socialist EU-member states in the decision-making process of the European Union. Above all, it is concerned with the role of civic interest and lobby group. Within the Sixth Framework Programme for Research of the European Union, the institute is a team leader in the integrated project, which is headed by the European University Institute in Florence. A further third-party funded research project investigates how the Polish, Czech and Slovakian trade unions cope with EU governance.\n\nSince 2000 the Research Centre has organized conferences for young scholars specializing in Eastern Europe. At the moment this is funded by the Otto-Wolff Foundation. In addition the Research Center organizes summer schools Changing Europe, sponsored by the Volkswagen Foundation. The first one took place in 2006 and selected contributions have been published. The aim of the summer schools is to bring together a select group of doctoral students from throughout the world and assist their integration into the research community of East European studies. Over 40 academics of international renown are involved in various functions under the supervision of the Research Centre in the work of the summer school.\n\nThe results of the institutes's research are published in two series (\"‘Studies in East European Culture and Society’\" published by LIT-Verlag and \"‘Changing Europe’\" published by Ibidem-Verlag) and as individual volumes. The archive of the Research Centre produces its own series of works published by Ibidem-Verlag. In addition, the Research Centre brings out in journal form the series \"Working papers and materials of the Research Centre for East European Studies\", which contains 10 issues each year.\n\nMoreover, the subsection dealing with studies of the present offers regular e-mail services, which include updates on individual countries in the region in German and English. Taken together, they have over 16,000 subscribers from the worlds of politics, economics and the media, as well as interested members of the public. In cooperation with the Koszalin Institute of Comparative European Studies the Research Center offers regular bibliographic e-mail servises, which cover books and articles recently published in English and German on politics, foreign policy, economic and social affairs.\n\nThe Research Centre amongst others works together with the following institutions in the former communist states:\n\nThe non-governmental organization MEMORIAL in Moscow, which like the Research Centre has an academic interest in Soviet dissidents, the Russian State University for the Humanities and the Moscow Higher School of Economics, with which a lively exchange program of researchers takes place in Russia.\n\nThe Institute of Contemporary History in Prague and the Institute of Sociology of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic. The archive KARTA in Warsaw and the Chair of Polish Studies and Comparative Literature at the University of Poznan in Poland. The Faculty of Political Sciences at the Comenius University Bratislava in the Slovak Republic.\n\nFurthermore, international networks exist with institutions in the USA (e.g. Hoover, Harvard and the Zimmerli Art Museum, New Brunswick) and Western Europe (e.g. ETH Zürich, the University of Amsterdam and Cambridge University).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1071397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1071397", "title": "Richard Pipes", "text": "Richard Pipes\n\nRichard Edgar Pipes (; July 11, 1923 – May 17, 2018) was a Polish American academic who specialized in Russian history, particularly with respect to the Soviet Union, who espoused a strong anti-communist point of view throughout his career. In 1976 he headed Team B, a team of analysts organized by the Central Intelligence Agency who analyzed the strategic capacities and goals of the Soviet military and political leadership. Pipes was the father of American historian and expert on American foreign policy and the Middle East, Daniel Pipes.\n\nPipes was born to a Jewish family in Cieszyn, Poland, which fled the country as refugees after it was invaded by Nazi Germany. Settling in the United States in 1940, he became a naturalized citizen in 1943 while serving in the United States Army Air Corps.\nFrom 1958 to 1996, Pipes worked at Harvard University.\n\nRichard Pipes was born in Cieszyn, Poland to an assimilated Jewish family (whose name had originally been spelled \"Piepes\"). His father Marek was a businessman and a Polish legionnaire. By Pipes's own account, during his childhood and youth, he never thought about the Soviet Union; the major cultural influences on him were Polish and German. When he was age 16, Pipes laid eyes upon Adolf Hitler at Marszałkowska Street in Warsaw when Hitler made a victory tour after the Invasion of Poland. The Pipes family fled occupied Poland in October 1939 and arrived in the United States in July 1940, after seven months passing through Italy. Pipes became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1943 while serving in the United States Army Air Corps. He was educated at Muskingum College, Cornell University, and Harvard University. He married Irene Eugenia Roth in 1946, and had two children with her. His son Daniel Pipes is a scholar of Middle Eastern affairs.\n\nPipes died in Cambridge, Massachusetts on May 17, 2018 at the age of 94.\n\nPipes taught at Harvard University from 1958 until his retirement in 1996. He was the director of Harvard's Russian Research Center from 1968 to 1973 and later Baird Professor Emeritus of History at Harvard University. In 1962 he delivered a series of lectures on Russian intellectual history at Leningrad State University. He acted as senior consultant at the Stanford Research Institute from 1973 to 1978. During the 1970s, he was an advisor to Washington Senator Henry M. Jackson. In 1981 and 1982 he served as a member of the National Security Council, holding the post of Director of East European and Soviet Affairs under President Ronald Reagan. He also became head of the Nationalities Working Group. Pipes was a member of the Committee on the Present Danger from 1977 until 1992 and belonged to the Council of Foreign Relations. In the 1970s, Pipes was a leading critic of détente, which he described as \"inspired by intellectual indolence and based on ignorance of one's antagonist and therefore inherently inept\".\n\nPipes was head of the 1976 Team B, composed of civilian experts and retired military officers and agreed to by then-CIA director George H. W. Bush at the urging of the president's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board (PFIAB) as a competitive analysis exercise. Team B was created at the instigation of then Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld as an antagonist force to a group of CIA intelligence officials known as Team A. His hope was that it would produce a much more aggressive assessment of Soviet Union military capabilities. Unsurprisingly, it argued that the National Intelligence Estimate on the Soviet Union, generated yearly by the CIA, underestimated both Soviet military strategy and ambition and misinterpreted Soviet strategic intentions.\n\nTeam B faced criticism. The international relations journalist Fred Kaplan writes that Team B \"turns out to have been wrong on nearly every point.\" Pipes's group insisted that the Soviet Union, as of 1976, maintained \"a large and expanding Gross National Product,\" and argued that the CIA belief that economic chaos hindered the USSR's defenses was a ruse on the part of the USSR. One CIA employee called Team B \"a kangaroo court\".\n\nPipes called Team B's evidence \"soft.\" Team B came to the conclusion that the Soviets had developed several new weapons, featuring a nuclear-armed submarine fleet that used a system that did not depend on active sonar, and was thus undetectable by existing technology.\n\nAccording to Pipes, \"Team B was appointed to look at the evidence and to see if we could conclude that the actual Soviet strategy is different from ours, i.e. the strategy of Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD). It has now been demonstrated totally that it was\". In 1986, Pipes maintained that Team B contributed to creating more realistic defense estimates.\n\nPipes wrote many books on Russian history, including \"Russia under the Old Regime\" (1974), \"The Russian Revolution\" (1990), and \"Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime\" (1994), and was a frequent interviewee in the press on the matters of Soviet history and foreign affairs. His writings also appear in \"Commentary\", \"The New York Times\", and The \"Times Literary Supplement\". At Harvard, he taught large courses on Imperial Russia as well as the Russian Revolution and guided over 80 graduate students to their PhDs.\n\nPipes is known for arguing that the origins of the Soviet Union can be traced to the separate path taken by 15th-century Muscovy, in a Russian version of the \"Sonderweg\" thesis. In Pipes' opinion, Muscovy differed from every State in Europe in that it had no concept of private property, and that everything was regarded as the property of the Grand Duke/Tsar. In Pipes' view, this separate path undertaken by Russia (possibly under Mongol influence) ensured that Russia would be an autocratic state with values fundamentally dissimilar from those of Western civilization. Pipes argued that this \"patrimonialism\" of Imperial Russia started to break down when Russian leaders attempted to modernize in the 19th century, without seeking to change the basic \"patrimonial\" structure of Russian society. In Pipes's opinion, this separate course undertaken by Russia over the centuries made Russia uniquely open to revolution in 1917. Pipes strongly criticized the values of the radical \"intelligentsia\" of late Imperial Russia for what he sees as their fanaticism and inability to accept reality. The Russian writer Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn denounced Pipes' work as \"the Polish version of Russian history\". Pipes, in turn, accused Solzhenitsyn of being an anti-Semitic Russian ultra-nationalist, who sought to blame the ills of Communism on the Jews rather than to admit to the Russian roots of the Soviet Union. Writing of Solzhenitsyn's novel, \"August 1914\" in the \"New York Times\" on November 13, 1985, Pipes commented: \"Every culture has its own brand of anti-Semitism. In Solzhenitsyn's case, it's not racial. It has nothing to do with blood. He's certainly not a racist; the question is fundamentally religious and cultural. He bears some resemblance to Dostoevsky, who was a fervent Christian and patriot and a rabid anti-Semite. Solzhenitsyn is unquestionably in the grip of the Russian extreme right's view of the Revolution, which is that it was the doing of the Jews\". Pipes explained Solzhenitsyn's view of Soviet communism: \"[Solzhenitsyn] said it was because Marxism was a Western idea imported into Russia. Whereas my argument is that it has deep roots in Russian history.\"\n\nPipes stressed that the Soviet Union was an expansionist, totalitarian state bent on world conquest. He is also notable for the thesis that, contrary to many traditional histories of the USSR at the time, the October Revolution was, rather than a popular general uprising, a coup foisted upon the majority of the Russian population by a tiny segment of the population driven by a select group of intellectuals who subsequently established a one-party dictatorship which was intolerant and repressive from the start, rather than having deviated from an initially benign course. In Pipes's view, the Revolution was a total disaster, as it allowed a small section of the fanatical \"intelligentsia\" to carry out policies that were completely unrealistic.\n\nIn what was meant to be an \"off-the-record\" interview, Pipes told Reuters in March 1981 that \"Soviet leaders would have to choose between peacefully changing their Communist system in the direction followed by the West or going to war. There is no other alternative and it could go either way – Détente is dead.\" Pipes also stated in the interview that Foreign Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher of West Germany was susceptible to pressure from the Soviets. It was learned independently that Pipes was the official who spoke to Reuters. This potentially jeopardized Pipes' job. The White House and the \"incensed\" State Department issued statements repudiating Pipes' statements.\n\nIn 1992, Pipes served as an expert witness in the Constitutional Court of Russia's trial of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe writings of Richard Pipes have provoked criticism in the scholarly community, for example in \"The Russian Review\".\n\nCriticism of Pipes's interpretation of the events of 1917 has come mostly from \"revisionist\" Soviet historians, who under the influence of the French \"Annales\" school, have tended since the 1970s to center their interpretation of the Russian Revolution on social movements from below in preference to parties and their leaders and interpreted political movements as responding to pressures from below rather than directing them. Among members of this school, Lynne Viola and Sheila Fitzpatrick claim that Pipes focused too narrowly on intellectuals as causal agents. Peter Kenez (a one-time PhD student of Pipes') argued that Pipes approached Soviet History as a prosecutor, intent solely on proving the criminal intent of the \"defendant\", to the exclusion of anything else. Pipes' critics argued that his historical writings perpetuated the Soviet Union as \"evil empire\" narrative in an attempt \"to put the clock back a few decades to the times when Cold War demonology was the norm\".\n\nOther critics have written that Pipes wrote at length about what Pipes described as Lenin's \"unspoken\" assumptions and conclusions, while neglecting what Lenin actually said. Alexander Rabinowitch writes that whenever a document can serve Pipes' long-standing crusade to demonize Lenin, Pipes commented on it at length; if the document allows Lenin to be seen in a less negative light, Pipes passed over it without comment.\n\nPipes, in his turn – following the demise of the USSR – charged the revisionists with skewing their research, by means of statistics, to support their preconceived ideological interpretation of events, which made the results of their research \"as unreadable as they were irrelevant for the understanding of the subject\" to provide intellectual cover for Soviet terror and acting as simpletons and/or Communist dupes. He also stated that their attempt at \"history from below\" only obfuscated the fact that \"Soviet citizens were the helpless victims of a totalitarian regime driven primarily by a lust for power\".\n\nPipes had an extensive list of honors, including: Honorary Consul of the Republic of Georgia, Foreign Member of the Polish Academy of Learning (PAU), Commander's Cross of Merit of the Republic of Poland, Honorary DHL at Adelphi College, Honorary LLD at Muskingum College, Doctor Honoris Causa from the University of Silesia, Szczecin University, and the University of Warsaw. Honorary Doctor of Political Science from the Tbilisi (Georgia) School of Political Studies. Annual Spring Lecturer of the Norwegian Nobel Peace Institute, Walter Channing Cabot Fellow of Harvard University, Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Fellow of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Guggenheim Fellow (twice), Fellow of the American Council of Learned Societies and recipient of the George Louis Beer Prize of the American Historical Association. He was a member of the Board of Advisors of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy. He served on a number of editorial boards including that of the International Journal of Intelligence and Counterintelligence. He received one of the 2007 National Humanities Medals and in 2009 he was awarded both the Truman-Reagan Medal of Freedom by the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation and the Brigham-Kanner Property Rights Prize by the William & Mary Law School.\nIn 2010, Pipes received the medal \"Bene Merito\" awarded by the Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs. Since 2010 he belonged to the Russian Valdai Discussion Club.\n\nHe was a member of the advisory council of the Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26042792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26042792", "title": "Ritology", "text": "Ritology\n\nRitology, also called ritualistics or ritual studies, is the study of rites and rituals. The ritology focuses most directly on enactment and performance, that is, it gives priority to the acts and actions of people. A secondary focus is on the words, text, or objects used in the rituals.\n\n"}
{"id": "158701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=158701", "title": "Robert Ballard", "text": "Robert Ballard\n\nRobert Duane Ballard (born June 30, 1942) is a retired United States Navy officer and a professor of oceanography at the University of Rhode Island who is most noted for his work in underwater archaeology: maritime archaeology and archaeology of shipwrecks. He is most known for the discoveries of the wrecks of the RMS \"Titanic\" in 1985, the battleship \"Bismarck\" in 1989, and the aircraft carrier in 1998. He discovered the wreck of John F. Kennedy's \"PT-109\" in 2002 and visited Biuku Gasa and Eroni Kumana, who saved its crew. He leads ocean exploration on E/V Nautilus.\n\nBallard grew up in Pacific Beach, San Diego, California to a mother of German heritage and a father of British heritage. He has attributed his early interest in underwater exploration to reading the novel \"Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea\", living by the ocean in San Diego, and his fascination with the groundbreaking expeditions of the bathyscaphe \"Trieste\".\n\nBallard began working for Andreas Rechnitzer's Ocean Systems Group at North American Aviation in 1962 when his father, Chet, the chief engineer at North American Aviation's Minuteman missile program, helped him get a part-time job. At North American, he worked on North American's failed proposal to build the submersible \"Alvin\" for the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.\n\nIn 1965, Ballard graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, earning undergraduate degrees in chemistry and geology. While a student in Santa Barbara, California, he joined Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and also completed the US Army's ROTC program, giving him an Army officer's commission in Army Intelligence. His first graduate degree (MS, 1966) was in geophysics from the University of Hawaii's Institute of Geophysics where he trained porpoises and whales. Subsequently, he returned to Andreas Rechnitzer's Ocean Systems Group at North American Aviation.\n\nBallard was working towards a Ph.D. in marine geology at the University of Southern California in 1967 when he was called to active duty. Upon his request, he was transferred from the Army into the US Navy as an oceanographer. The Navy assigned him as a liaison between the Office of Naval Research and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Woods Hole, Massachusetts.\n\nAfter leaving active duty and entering into the Naval Reserve in 1970, Ballard continued working at Woods Hole persuading organizations and people, mostly scientists, to fund and use \"Alvin\" for undersea research. Four years later he received a Ph.D. in marine geology and geophysics at the University of Rhode Island.\n\nBallard's first dive in a submersible was in the \"Ben Franklin\" (PX-15) in 1969 off the coast of Florida during a Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution expedition. In summer 1970, he began a field mapping project of the Gulf of Maine for his doctoral dissertation. It used an air gun that sent sound waves underwater to determine the underlying structure of the ocean floor and the submersible \"Alvin\", which was used to find and recover a sample from the bedrock.\n\nDuring the summer of 1975, Ballard participated in a joint French-American expedition called Phere searching for hydrothermal vents over the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, but the expedition did not find any active vents. A 1979 expedition was aided by deep-towed still camera sleds that were able to take pictures of the ocean floor, making it easier to find the vent locations.\n\nWhen \"Alvin\" inspected one of the sites they located, the scientists observed black smoke billowing out of the vents, something not observed at the Galápagos Rift. Ballard and geophysicist Jean Francheteau went down in \"Alvin\" the day after the black smokers were first observed. They were able to take an accurate temperature reading of the active vent (the previous dive's thermometer had melted), and recorded 350 °C (662 °F). They continued searching for more vents along the East Pacific Rise between 1980 and 1982.\n\nBallard joined the United States Army in 1965 through the Army's Reserve Officers Training program. He was designated as an intelligence officer and initially received a commission as a second lieutenant in the Army Reserve. When called to active duty in 1967, he asked to fulfill his obligation in the United States Navy. His request was approved, and he was transferred to the Navy Reserve on the reserve active duty list. After completing his active duty obligation in 1970, he was returned to reserve status, where he remained for much of his military career, being called up only for mandatory training and special assignments. He retired from the Navy as a commander in 1995 after reaching the statutory service limit.\n\nWhile Ballard had been interested in the sea since an early age, his work at Woods Hole and his scuba diving experiences off Massachusetts spurred his interest in shipwrecks and their exploration. His work in the Navy had involved assisting in the development of small, unmanned submersibles that could be tethered to and controlled from a surface ship, and were outfitted with lighting, cameras, and manipulator arms. As early as 1973, he saw this as way of searching for the wreck of the \"Titanic\". In 1977, he led his first expedition, which was unsuccessful.\n\nIn summer 1985, Ballard was aboard the French research ship \"Le Suroît\", which was using the side scan sonar \"SAR\" to search for the \"Titanic\" wreck. When the French ship was recalled, he transferred onto a ship from Woods Hole, the R/V \"Knorr\". Unbeknownst to some, this trip was financed by the U.S. Navy for secret reconnaissance of the wreckage of two Navy nuclear powered attack submarines, the USS \"Scorpion\" and the USS \"Thresher\", which sank in the 1960s, and not for the \"Titanic\". Back in 1982, he approached the Navy about his new deep sea underwater robot craft, the \"Argo\", and his search for the \"Titanic\". The Navy was not interested in financing it. However, they were interested in finding out what happened to their missing submarines and ultimately concluded that \"Argo\" was their best chance to do so. The Navy agreed it would finance his \"Titanic\" search only if he first searched for and investigated the two sunken submarines, and found out the state of their nuclear reactors after being submerged for such a long time, and whether their radioactivity was impacting the environment. He was placed on temporary active duty in the Navy, in charge of finding and investigating the wrecks. After the two missions were completed, time and funding permitting, he was free to use resources to hunt for the \"Titanic\".\n\nAfter their missions for the Navy, \"Knorr\" arrived on site on August 22, 1985, and deployed \"Argo\". When they searched for the two submarines, Ballard and his team discovered that they had imploded from the immense pressure at depth. It littered thousands of pieces of debris all over the ocean floor. Following the large trail of debris led them directly to both and made it significantly easier for them to locate them than if they were to search for the hulls directly. He already knew that the \"Titanic\" imploded from pressure as well, much the same way the two submarines did, and concluded that it too must have also left a scattered debris trail. Using that lesson, they had \"Argo\" sweep back and forth across the ocean floor looking for the \"Titanic's\" debris trail. They took shifts monitoring the video feed from \"Argo\" as it searched the ocean floor two miles below.\n\nIn the early morning hours of September 1, 1985, observers noted anomalies on the otherwise smooth ocean floor. At first, it was pockmarks, like small craters from impacts. Eventually, debris was sighted as the rest of the team was awakened. Finally, a boiler was sighted, and soon after that, the hull was found.\n\nBallard's team made a general search of the \"Titanic's\" exterior, noting its condition. Most significantly, they confirmed that it had split in two, and that the stern was in far worse shape than the bow. They did not have much time to explore, as others were waiting to take \"Knorr\" on other scientific pursuits, but his fame was now assured. He originally planned to keep the exact location a secret to prevent anyone from claiming prizes from it. He considered the site a cemetery, and refused to desecrate it by removing artifacts.\n\nOn July 12, 1986, Ballard and his team returned on board \"Atlantis II\" to make the first detailed study of the wreck. This time, he brought \"Alvin\". It was accompanied by \"Jason Junior\", a small remotely operated vehicle that could fit through small openings to see into the ship's interior. Although the first dive (taking over two hours) encountered technical problems, subsequent ones were far more successful, and produced a detailed photographic record of the wreck's condition.\n\nIn 1988, Ballard published a book, \"Discovery Of The Titanic (Exploring The Greatest Of All Lost Ships)\", and he later recounted the specifics of the expedition for National Geographic in a video.\n\nThe vast majority of the relics retrieved by various groups, not including Ballard, from RMS Titanic were owned by Premier Exhibitions which filed for bankruptcy in 2016. In late August 2018, the groups vying for ownership of the 5,500 relics included one by museums in England and Northern Ireland with assistance from film maker James Cameron and some financial support from National Geographic. Ballard told the news media that he favored this bid since it would ensure that the memorabilia would be permanently displayed in Belfast and in Greenwich. A decision as to the outcome was to be made by a United States district court judge.\n\nBallard undertook an even more daunting task when he and his team searched off the coast of France for the German Battleship \"Bismarck\" in 1989, using an ocean-crawling robot. The 15,000 foot deep water in which it sank is 4,000 feet deeper than that where the \"Titanic\" sank. He attempted to determine whether it had been sunk by the British or was scuttled by its own crew. Three weeks after the expedition however, personal tragedy struck him when his 21-year-old son, Todd, who had aided him in the search, was killed in a car accident.\n\nBallard later published a book about the quest, \"The Discovery of the Bismarck\" (1990). The discovery was also documented for National Geographic in a 1989 James Cameron video \"Search for the Battleship Bismarck\" which indicated that the ship had been damaged by torpedoes and shells from British ships. The actual cause of the sinking, however, was sabotage of the underwater valves by the onboard crew, according to Ballard, who said, \"we found a hull that appears whole and relatively undamaged by the descent and impact\". Film maker Cameron, however, said that his crew's examination of the wreckage indicated that the Bismarck would have sunk eventually even if it had not been scuttled.\n\nIn 1993, Ballard investigated the wreck of RMS \"Lusitania\" off the Irish coast. It had been struck by a torpedo, whose explosion was followed by a second, much larger one. The wreck had been depth charged by the Royal Navy several years after the sinking, and had also been damaged by other explorers, making a forensic analysis difficult. He found no evidence of boiler explosion and he speculated the ignition of coal dust inside the ship, caused a \"massive, uncontrollable [second] explosion\".\n\nOthers have questioned this hypothesis, some suggesting that the ship had been sabotaged by the British. Ballard found no evidence to support this claim. Some experts have indicated that it was, in fact, boiler explosions that caused the ship to sink so quickly, in a mere 18 minutes.\n\nBallard published a book about the discovery, \"Exploring the Lusitania: Probing the Mysteries of the Sinking that Changed History\", also titled \"Robert Ballard's Lusitania\" in some markets, with co-author Spencer Dunmore (ISBN: ISBN-10: 0785822070).\n\nIn 1992, Ballard and his team have visited the sites of many wrecks of World War II in the Pacific, doing so, he discovered the wreck of the IJN \"Kirishima\". His book \"Lost Ships of Guadalcanal\" locates and photographs many of the vessels sunk in the infamous Ironbottom Sound, the strait between Guadalcanal Island and the Floridas in the Solomon Islands.\n\nOn 19 May 1998 Ballard found the wreck of \"Yorktown\", sunk at the Battle of Midway. Found 3 miles (5 km) beneath the surface, it was photographed.\n\nIn 2002, the National Geographic Society and Ballard fielded a ship with remote vehicles to the Solomon Islands. They succeeded in finding a torpedo tube and the forward section from the shipwreck of John F. Kennedy's \"PT-109\" which was rammed in 1943 by the Japanese destroyer \"Amagiri\" off Ghizo Island. The visit also brought to light the identity of islanders Biuku Gasa and Eroni Kumana who had received little recognition for finding the shipwrecked crew after searching for days in their dugout canoe. A TV special and a book were produced, and Ballard spoke at the John F. Kennedy Library in 2005.\n\nIn the 1990s Ballard founded the Institute for Exploration, which specializes in deep-sea archaeology and deep-sea geology. It joined forces in 1999 with the Mystic Aquarium located in Mystic, Connecticut. They are a part of the non-profit Sea Research Foundation, Inc.\n\nIn 2003, Ballard started the Center for Ocean Exploration and Archaeological Oceanography, a research program at the University of Rhode Island's Graduate School of Oceanography.\n\nIn 1976, Willard Bascom suggested that the deep, anoxic waters of the Black Sea might have preserved ships from antiquity because typical wood-devouring organisms could not survive there. At a depth of 150 m, it contains insufficient oxygen to support most familiar biological life forms.\n\nOriginally a land-locked fresh water lake, the Black Sea was flooded with salt water from the Mediterranean Sea during the Holocene. The influx of salt water essentially smothered the fresh water below it because a lack of internal motion and mixing meant that no fresh oxygen reached the deep waters, creating a meromictic body of water. The anoxic environment, which is hostile to many biological organisms that destroy wood in the oxygenated waters, provides an excellent testing site for deep water archaeological survey.\n\nIn a series of expeditions, a team of marine archaeologists led by Ballard identified what appeared to be ancient shorelines, freshwater snail shells, and drowned river valleys in roughly 300 feet (100 m) of water off the Black Sea coast of modern Turkey. Radiocarbon dating of freshwater mollusk remains indicated an age of about 7,000 years.\n\nThe team discovered three ancient wrecks to the west of the town of Sinop at depths of 100 m. Wreck A and Wreck C probably date to the late Roman period (2nd–4th century A.D.), while Wreck B probably dates to the Byzantine period (5th to 7th century A.D.).\n\nTo the east of Sinop, the team discovered a remarkably well-preserved wreck at a 320 m depth, in the Black Sea's deep anoxic waters. The vessel's entire hull and cargo are intact, buried in sediments. Its deck structures are also intact, including a mast rising some 11 m into the water column. Radiocarbon dating of wood from the wreck provides a date of 410–520 A.D. It has been named \"Sinop D\" by the Ballard team.\n\nIn 2000, the team conducted an expedition that focused on the exploration of the sea bed about 15–30 km west of Sinop, and an additional deep-water survey east and north of the peninsula. Their project had several goals. They sought to discover whether human habitation sites could be identified on the ancient submerged landscape, they examined the sea-bed for shipwrecks (where they found Sinop A-D), to test the hypothesis that the anoxic waters below 200 m would protect shipwrecks from the expected biological attacks on organic components, and to seek data about an ancient trade route between Sinop and the Crimea indicated by terrestrial archaeological remains.\n\nAlthough Sinop served as a primary trade center in the Black Sea, the wrecks were located west of the trade route predicted by the prevalence of Sinopian ceramics on the Crimean peninsula. On wrecks A-C, mounds of distinctive carrot-shaped shipping jars, called amphorae, were found. They were of a style associated with Sinop and retained much of their original stacking pattern on the sea floor. The jars may have carried a variety of archetypal Black Sea products such as olive oil, honey, wine or fish sauce but the contents are presently unknown because no artifacts were recovered from any of these wreck sites in 2000.\n\nThe wreck found provided the team with vast information about both the technological changes and trade that occurred in the Black Sea during a period of political, social and economic transition through their study of the ship’s construction techniques. Studies show that in Sinop during the Byzantine era, they had developed long-distance trading as early as 4500 BC. Sea-trading on the Black Sea was most intense during the period of late antiquity, between the 2nd and 7th centuries AD. The examination of the four shipwrecks found by Ballard and his team provide the direct evidence for Black Sea maritime trade so well attested by the distribution of ceramics on land.\n\nThe video images of Shipwreck A that were taken show a wall of shipping jars standing about 2 m above the seabed. The amphorae highest on the mound had fallen over without displacing those still standing in the rows beneath them, and it is likely that the ship settled upright on the sea-bed, gradually being both buried in and filled with sediment as exposed wood was devoured by the larva or the shipworm.\n\nShipwreck B also consisted of a large pile of amphorae but several types are visible, as are multiple timbers protruding from within the mound and on it. In addition to the Sinop-styles jars, several amphorae similar to examples excavated on the Yassiada Byzantine shipwreck and dating from the 5th to late 6th century AD are present.\n\nTwo discrete and mostly buried piles of carrot-shaped shipping jars comprise shipwreck C. The team’s visit to the site was short and was intended primarily to test survey methodology for deep-water procedures.\n\nShipwreck D provided the team with an unprecedented opportunity to document hull construction during a time of transition. When observing the sonar signature of Shipwreck D, a long, slender upright feature on the seabed, transformed itself into a wooden mast. Elements rarely present on shallower shipwreck sites are beautifully preserved 200 m below the surface. Disappointingly for ship scholars and historians of technology, there are few indications of how the planks of Sinop D are held together. There are no mortise and tenon fastenings, and no sewing. Shipwreck D may be one of the earliest lateen-rigged ships to be studied by archaeologists. The angle of the mast and the lack of fittings on it suggest that a lateen sail is the most likely configuration for such a small vessel.\n\nThe Institute for Exploration Black Sea expeditions relied on remote sensing with side-scan sonar in shallow and deep water to identify potential archaeological sites examined by ROVs. The hypothesis that the anoxic waters of the Black Sea would allow extraordinary organic preservation is borne out by the discovery of Sinop D, the 1,500-year-old shipwreck with excellent preservation of features above the sediment layer.\n\nAccording to a report in \"New Scientist\" magazine (May 4, 2002, p. 13), the researchers found an underwater delta south of the Bosporus. There was evidence for a strong flow of fresh water out of the Black Sea in the 8th millennium BC. Ballard's research has contributed to the debate over the Black Sea deluge theory.\n\n\nIn 2004, Ballard was appointed professor of oceanography, and currently serves as Director of the Institute for Archaeological Oceanography, at the University of Rhode Island's Graduate School of Oceanography. He was the first speaker to give the Charles and Marie Fish Lecture in Oceanography at the University of Rhode Island in 2002.\n\nBallard served as the technical consultant on the science fiction series \"seaQuest DSV\" during its first season from September 1993 until May 1994. During the closing credits, he would speak about the scientific elements that were present in any given episode and place them in a contemporary context. Although he exited the series in the second season, he was referenced in the third season, with the \"Ballard Institute\" being named after him.\n\nIn 1989, Ballard founded the JASON Project, a distance education program designed to excite and engage middle school students in science and technology. He began the JASON Project in response to the thousands of letters he received from students following his discovery of the wreck of the \"Titanic\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22858316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22858316", "title": "Romulus and Remus (Rubens)", "text": "Romulus and Remus (Rubens)\n\nRomulus and Remus is a painting by the Flemish artist Peter Paul Rubens. It is housed in the Pinacoteca Capitolina in Rome, Italy. It depicts the brothers Romulus and Remus being cared for by a wolf. The painting also shows the god of the Tiber river sitting on his urn, a woodpecker that watched over the twins to bring them food, and a shepherd discovering the infants.\n"}
{"id": "30177530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30177530", "title": "San Miguel Ixtapan (archaeological site)", "text": "San Miguel Ixtapan (archaeological site)\n\nSan Miguel Ixtapan is an archaeological site located in the municipality of Tejupilco (Nahuatl \"Texopilco\" or \"Texopilli\"), in the State of Mexico.\n\nTejupilco is about 100 kilometers west from the city of Toluca, Mexico State, on federal highway 134. The site is some 15 kilometers south of the municipal head, on state highway 8 that leads to Amatepec.\n\nThis site is one of the few explored in the southwest region of the State of Mexico, that has provided some archaeological information on an area that virtually was not explored.\n\nIts apogee was in the aftermath of the Teotihuacan decline. Located in an area which probably served as a liaison between the Central Highlands and regions of Michoacán and Guerrero, San Miguel Ixtapan had its greatest growth between 750 and 900 CE. Then the site reaches a substantial expansion and built most of the structures of the ceremonial area now visible, they represent only a portion of what was the site in its splendor. San Miguel Ixtapan was located in a privileged place with deposits of basalt prisms used for construction, fertile land and one of the larger flow springs in the State.\n\nThe earliest evidence of human habitation in the state is a quartz scraper and obsidian blade found in the Tlapacoya area, which was an island in the former Lake Chalco. They are dated to the Pleistocene era which dates human habitation back to 20,000 years. These first peoples were hunter-gatherers. Stone Age implements have been found all over the territory from mammoth bones, to stone tools to human remains. Most have been found in the areas of Los Reyes Acozac, Tizayuca, Tepexpan, San Francisco Mazapa, El Risco and Tequixquiac. Between 20,000 and 5000 BCE, the people here eventually went from hunting and gathering to sedimentary villages with farming and domesticated animals. The main crop was corn, and stone tools for the grinding of this grain become common. Later crops include beans, chili peppers and squash grown near established villages. Evidence of ceramics appears around 2500 BCE with the earliest artifacts of these appearing in Tlapacoya, Atoto, Malinalco, Acatzingo and Tlatilco.\n\nThe earliest major city of the state is Teotihuacan, built between 100 BCE and 100 CE.\n\nBetween 800 and 900 CE, the Matlatzincas established their dominion with Teotenango as capital.\nDuring Axayacatl reign (1469–1481) the Aztecs and Purépecha conquered much of the Matlazincas settlements, imposing names such as: Metepec, Capulhuac Quauhpanoayan, Xochiaca Tzinacantepec, Zoquitzinco, Toluca, Xiquipilco, Tenantzinco, Teotenango and Calixtlahuaca.\n\nOther dominions during the prehispanic period include that of the Chichimecas in Tenayuca and of the Acolhuas in Huexotla, Texcotizingo and Los Melones. Other important groups were the Mazahuas in the Atlacomulco area. Their center was at Mazahuacán, next to Jocotitlán mountain. The Otomis were centered in Jilotepec.\n\nThe name of the place is composed from the words \"Iztatl\" (salt) and \"pan\" (place): \"place where is salt\", this makes reference to the importance that salt exploitation had from prehispanic times, it was fundamentally due to the saltpeter (Potassium nitrate) water wells that existed near the town. (Still mined, although in smaller scale)\n\nIn relation to Tejupilco, there is no certainty of the true meaning of the word Tejupilco until today, it is known that a large volcanic rock which has a human footprint in the Huarache Hill east of San Simón, gave name to the place.\n\nTexopilco, as it was known to the arrival of the Spaniards and several decades afterwards, has had several versions of its meaning: Texo (foot print), pilli (small), place of small footprint, Te (not own), xopilli (toes). Place of strange footprints, or Tetl (stone), xo (foot), pilli (son or prince) Place of important people footprints.\n\nInterpretations have changed through the centuries, according to knowledge, feelings, views and opinions of the authors.\n\nInitial explorations of this site occurred in 1985, it focused on the model found. The site was discovered by farmers plowing the land, when rocks and other vestiges were detected.\n\nIt is difficult to determine the site constructors, although filiation from ethno historical sources indicates they were closely related to the Otomi culture.\n\nThe first report of the site was given in 1958, upon discovering the so-called \"model\", a basaltic stone where the city was carved in miniature. The stone is now under roof, under a shelter next to the Museum. It was initially thought that it was a representation of the archaeological site; however, subsequent excavations demonstrated that it is not the case and so far not found a site that matches its design; now it is considered an ideal representation of a city or a sculpted ceremonial center sculpted, taking advantage of the rock morphology.\n\nAs a result of site field investigations, at least four occupation stages were detected.\n\n\nDocumented periods of regional occupation.\n\nThe oldest evidence of human occupation of these lands dates back to more than 12 thousand years, approximate date when Tejupilco cave paintings were. Early hunter-gatherers who arrived in the region at the end of the third glaciation evolved to become sedentary groups of farmers, complex societies and cultures which formed part of other civilizations.\n\nThe plentiful natural resources, consequence of the rugged geography formed from millions of years ago, attracted to the Tejupilco region early settlers at least 10 thousand years ago, date in which hunter-gatherer groups created the cave paintings at the \"Cueva de los Monitos\"; located north of \"Bejucos\" at the foot of the Nanchititla Sierra. The hunter-gatherer groups have evolved to sedentary tribes through peaceful or violent exchanges with other cultures, to the domain of agriculture and domestication of animals, basic astronomical, medical and scientific knowledge.\n\nThese settlements scattered throughout the region evolved, some to become complex cultures with language and religion, stratified societies and priestly classes. Others collapsed and were forgotten until the recent discovery of its ruins and study of remains that repositioned them as key parts for the study and understanding of regional history.\n\nThe most remote archaeological discovery is located in the archaeological area of San Miguel Ixtapan, atop of a pyramid basement, still unexplored; a mask and jade necklace were found alongside organic remains. These artifacts belong to an unknown culture that flourished in San Miguel Ixtapan, but over two thousand years before the site recorded history.\n\nSites such as \"Río Grande\" and the \"Pararrayos de San Miguel\", evidenced the collapse of the settlement from hundreds or thousands of years before the conquest of Mexico. In San Miguel Ixtapan a human body was discovered, while digging to install a lightning rod, along with prepared foods, on top of a pyramid-like basement. The body provided a chronological placement to 2000 years BCE, which means that a culture existed about 4 thousand years ago, which probably collapsed due to an invasion, next to the body finding, a necklace and green stone mask were found, these are exhibited in the San Miguel Ixtapan site Museum. In the same site are located the San Miguel Ixtapan ruins, a much later culture.\n\nSan Miguel Ixtapan, only archaeological site moderately excavated and studied, of the more than 180 sites existing in the region. The San Miguel Ixtapan culture flourished from 450 to 1522 CE, possibly the Chontal culture from the Balsas with close cultural and commercial ties with Teotihuacan, Tula, and the Central Highlands as well as other points of Tierra Caliente.\n\nThe complex cultural overlay present in Mesoamerica throughout centuries, also existed in Tejupilco, where eventually a Chontal Kingdom was formed (Chontal meaning foreigner or not Aztec) probably Matlazinca with Tejupilco as capital and composed, according to Gaspar de Covarrubias by 18 groups\n\nThe Aztecs conquered the Tejupilco kingdom.\n\nTejupilco was conquered by the Mexicas or Aztecs around 1475-1476, during the reign of Axayacatl, consequently, at the time of the conquest the Matlazinca and Nahuatl or Mexican was spoken in the region\n\nThe Otomi people is a native ethnic group inhabiting the central altiplano of Mexico. The two most populous groups are the Highland or Sierra Otomí living in the mountains of La Huasteca and the Mezquital Otomí, living in the Mezquital Valley in the eastern part of the state of Hidalgo, and in the Sierra of Querétaro state. The Otomí usually self-identify as \"Ñuhu\" or \"Ñuhmu\" depending on the dialect they speak, whereas Mezquital Otomi identify themselves as Hñähñu (pronounced ). Smaller Otomi populations exist in the states of Puebla, Mexico, Tlaxcala, Michoacán and Guanajuato. The Otomi language belonging to the Oto-Pamean branch of the Oto-Manguean language family is spoken in many different varieties some of which are not mutually intelligible.\nOne of the early complex cultures of Mesoamerica, the Otomi were likely the original inhabitants of the central Mexican highlands before the arrival of Nahuatl speakers around ca. 1000 AD, but were gradually replaced and marginalized by Nahua peoples. In the colonial period Otomi speakers helped the Spanish conquistadors as mercenaries and allies, which allowed them to extend into territories that had previously been inhabited by semi-nomadic Chichimecs, for example Querétaro and Guanajuato.\n\nHence the names used by the otomíes to refer to themselves are numerous: \"ñätho\" (Toluca Valley), \"hñähñu\" (Mezquital Valley), \"ñäñho\" (Santiago de Mezquititlán, south of Querétaro) and \"ñ'yühü\" (Northern Puebla Sierra), Pahuatlán) are some of the names used by the Otomi to call themselves in their own languages, although it is common when talking in Spanish they use the Nahuatl ethnonym \"Otomi\".\n\nAs with most ethnonyms used to refer to native peoples of Mexico, the \"Otomi\" term is not native of the referenced village. \"Otomi\" is a term that derives from the Nahuatl source \"otómitl\", a word in the language of the ancient Aztecs meaning \"who walks with arrows\", although authors such as Wigberto Jiménez Moreno have translated it as \"bird hunter with arrows\" (flechador de pájaros). Also it is plausible that the demonym is derived from the name Oton, a leader of this people in prehispanic times. According to the members of the Otomi people the term, \"Otomi\" is pejorative, associated with an image derived from colonial and Nahua sources where the Otomi are presented as indolent and lazy. Therefore, for some years now, there has been a resurgence of native names usage, especially in the Mezquital Valley, Querétaro and northwest of the State of Mexico; territories with a high percentage of Otomi ethnic population. On the other hand, in eastern Michoacán, recovery of the native demonym has not had the same effort.>\n\nOtomi (; ) is an Oto-Manguean language and one of the indigenous languages of Mexico, spoken by approximately 240,000 indigenous Otomi people in the central \"altiplano\" region of Mexico. The language is spoken in many different dialects, some of which are not mutually intelligible, therefore it is in effect a dialect continuum. The word Hñähñu has been proposed as an endonym, but since it represents the usage of a single dialect it has not gained wide currency. Linguists have classified the modern dialects into three dialect areas: the Northwestern dialects spoken in Querétaro, Hidalgo and Guanajuato; the Southwestern dialects spoken in the State of Mexico; and the Eastern dialects spoken in the highlands of Veracruz, Puebla, and eastern Hidalgo and in villages in Tlaxcala and Mexico states.\n\nLike all other Oto-Manguean languages, Otomi is a tonal language and most varieties distinguish three tones. Nouns are marked only for possessor (either by prefixes or by proclitics); plural number is marked by the definite article and by a verb suffix, and some dialects maintain the historically existing dual number marking.\n\nIn spite of the finding of the \"model\" rock in 1958, formal archaeological excavations only started in 1985, and Museum construction started in 1993.\n\nIn addition to archaeological monuments, San Miguel has a Site Museum that holds and displays many pieces found on site that have been recovered during controlled excavations. This material offers to information about the culture, materials, and way of life of the ancient settlers of the region.\n\nSome of the figurines found in San Miguel Ixtapan indicate an occupation dating back to the formative period, between 800 and 200 BCE, they are very similar to the elaborate Tlapacoya and Tlatilco ceramic; some of them very peculiar represent pregnant women. Others clay figures are similar to those discovered in Teotihuacan phases III and IV (500 and 750 CE) and confirm a continued occupation during the classical period. Much of these objects were found in the deeper layers of the ballgame court. However, the stage of further expansion of San Miguel Ixtapan is during the mesoamerican epiclassical period (750-900 CE). Then is when the principal monuments in the site are built matching the splendor of Xochicalco, Morelos; Teotenango, South of the Valley of Toluca and Cholula, Puebla, cities that flourished after the decline of Teotihuacan.\n\nThe main pieces that are exhibited in the Museum belong to the epiclassical mesoamerican period, as the anthropomorphic sculptures with crossed arms, ceramic masks with a kind of eye masking, the ballgame court (tlachmalacátl) stone ring and stone disks carved with the image of a dual serpent in the center. This period corresponds to the sculpture area, where there are two anthropomorphic Stelae carved in green stone and embedded in the ground.\n\nDuring this time the influence of the culture of the Balsas is stronger than ever, it can be appreciated by the large ceramics amount depicting style similarity. Some vessels are identical to those found at the Caracol dam, near Arcelia, Guerrero. The strong cultural exchange that existed between the cultures of Michoacán and Guerrero is notorious, and in the south of the State Mexico, but also the matlatzincas influence is noted.\n\nIn the late postclassical period the region was occupied by Aztecs, who imposed tribute or formed army alliances against the Purépecha. Constructive activity is very poor, however this period correspond to some of the burials with lavish offerings. Shell beads, necklaces, cooper needles, earrings, obsidian \"bezotes\", spear points, darts and numerous vases accompanied the dead on their journey to the underworld. Many of these objects have been perfectly preserved and can be seen in various Museum showcases.\n\nIn the center of town, is the Church of San Miguel Ixtapan, its constructors used carved stone blocks from the archaeological constructions, and in the atrium of the church is another block.\n\nUpon entering the site, to the right side are two huge earth mounds that contain prehispanic ruins, and to the left is the ballgame court.\n\nThe Model [Maqueta, ], according to archaeologists, belongs to the early postclassical (900 to 1200 CE), San Miguel Ixtapan continued to be occupied and its buildings were constantly modified.\n\nIs a three by four meter basaltic rock outgrowth, in which the ancient inhabitants of the place carved with great skills a series of architectonic elements such as: ballgame courts, platforms or foundations, stairways with sides, roofed temples, etc., depicting an exceptional scale ceremonial center. As a result of investigations of this site and neighboring areas, it has been possible to determine that this architectonic complex does not seem to make reference to any of the known sites to date. Hence, more than a \"scale model\", it seems a Votive offering element in which some type of rites and ceremonies were carried out.\nResearchers have called \"The model\", a rocky outcrop that depicts the architectural design of a city, but the question is: what city?\n\nMay well be a city that is still lost; It can also be the drawing of a city yet to be built.\n\nSpecialists are not inclined one way or another: it is the architectural model of a City, perhaps conceived at the time, it even contains several spaces (up to five) in the form of ballgame courts.\n\nThe ballgame court has an outline oriented on an east-west direction; it is capital letter \"I\" shaped or double \"T\", the court area measures 50 meters long by 7.50 wide. Headers at both end measure 15 by 7.8 meters. A particularity of this ballgame court consists of the fact that the land was excavated for its construction below grade, reason why access stairways were built to enter the court. Towards the south side, a platform was added (Platform1), where many human burials were found containing rich offerings, from its characteristics this is placed within the postclassical period.\n\nIt is said to have been barely explored, due to the tree on top (see Basement 2 picture).\n\nOn its eastern side, have remains of red stucco. On its western side has a recessed stairway.\n\nIt is the most important structure on the site.\n\nThe structure is composed of three superimposed bodies, with a series of rooms in its superior part, which was accessed by a stairway with intermediate inclined walls (alfardas). The second level of this monument, a complex of overlaid residential-ceremonial enclosures is located distributed on different levels, certainly as a consequence of the need to make modifications to spaces and accesses.\n\nAbove the structure is a room, with stucco remains in floor and walls, which probably served for the king to rest.\n\nOn the north-west corner is a small niche holding a Tlaloc sculpture, God of water, very important in this area for corn planting, other products and salt collection were the main income sources of the area.\n\nOn the north side of Basement 3, is a stairway leading down from the Tlaloc niche at site level, it is made from large basalt blocks, below is an external patio, surrounded by a wall. There are remains of a drainage system.\n\nOn the south side of Basement 3 is the \"Patio Hundido\" (sunken patio), used hundreds of years ago to make offerings and rituals: strategically located so that attendees could focus on it, inside is a sacrificial stone.\n\nIt has two access stairways, one with sides finished, leading directly to the \"Sculptures Enclosure\".\n\nThese structures are not accessible to visitors, the sunken patio and the structures are chained off.\n\nThese are located south of basement 3 and west of the sunken patio, at the North West corner.\n\nThe enclosures are said to contain the \"Recinto de la Banqueta\" and the \"Recinto de las esculturas\", with accesses facing east and west respectively.\n\nso called because most of the figurines exhibited in the site Museum from the archaeological site, made from basalt green stone were found in this place.\n\n\nMany structures are covered with stucco, perhaps to protect them from destruction due to the many invasions suffered with the Aztec occupation.\n\nThe museum was opened in 1995 by the \"Instituto Mexiquense de Cultura\".\n\nSan Miguel has a site museum which exhibits a large amount of recovered pieces. This material provided information about the culture and way of life of the ancient inhabitants of the region.\n\nThe Museum is small; however keeps a collection of more than 800 items, many in perfect state of conservation and cleverly distributed pursuant to museographer Jorge Carrandi layout. This material has been discovered, mostly as part of mortuary offerings. By ceramic type and style of the sculptures, it has been chronologically placed from the postclassical mesoamerican period.\n\nSome of the ceramic figures include women figurines, some pregnant, dating back to 800 BCE to 200 CE.\n\nOther pieces belong to the splendor period, between 750 and 900 CE. Including vessels, deities representations, feathers and the skeleton of an important man, exhibited as was found in one of the external mounds.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311659", "title": "Sensationalism", "text": "Sensationalism\n\nSensationalism is a type of editorial bias in mass media in which events and topics in news stories and pieces are overhyped to present biased impressions on events, which may cause a manipulation to the truth of a story. Sensationalism may have reporting about generally insignificant matters and events that do not influence overall society and biased presentations of newsworthy topics in a trivial or tabloid manner contrary to the standards of professional journalism.\n\nSome tactics include being deliberately obtuse, appealing to emotions, being controversial, intentionally omitting facts and information, being loud and self-centered, and acting to obtain attention. Trivial information and events are sometimes misrepresented and exaggerated as important or significant and often include stories about the actions of individuals and small groups of people, the content of which is often insignificant and irrelevant relative to the macro-level day-to-day events that occur globally. Furthermore, the content and subject matter typically affect neither the lives of the masses nor society and instead is broadcast and printed to attract viewers and readers. Examples include press coverage about the Bill Clinton/Monica Lewinsky scandal, Casey Anthony Trial, Tonya Harding's role in the attack of Nancy Kerrigan, the Elian Gonzalez affair and the O.J. Simpson murder case.\nIn \"A History of News\", author Mitchell Stephens (professor of journalism and mass communication at New York University) notes sensationalism can be found in the Ancient Roman \"Acta Diurna\" (official notices and announcements which were presented daily on public message boards, the perceived content of which spread with enthusiasm in illiterate societies). Sensationalism was used in books of the 16th and 17th century, to teach moral lessons. According to Stevens, sensationalism brought the news to a new audience when it became aimed at the lower class, who had less of a need to accurately understand politics and the economy, to occupy them in other matters. Through sensationalism, he claims, the audience was further educated and encouraged to take more interest in the news.\nThe more modern forms of sensationalism developed in the course of the nineteenth century in parallel with the expansion of print culture in industrialized nations. A genre of British literature, \"sensation novels,\" became in the 1860s the best example of how the publishing industry could capitalize on a rhetoric made of surprising turns in the narrative to market serialized fiction in the expanded market of the periodical press. The London magazine \"Belgravia\" edited by the popular author of sensation novels Mary Elizabeth Braddon between 1867 and 1876 offered one of the earliest theories of modernity and its “shock value” mediated by sensationalism. The attention-grasping rhetorical techniques found in sensation fiction were also employed in articles on science, modern technology, finance, and in historical accounts of contemporary events, as discussed by Alberto Gabriele in \"Reading Popular Culture in Victorian Print\". The collection of essays \"Sensationalism and the Genealogy of Modernity: a Global Nineteenth Century Perspective\" edited by Alberto Gabriele is also helpful to track the transhistorical presence of sensationalism in several national contexts in the course of the long nineteenth century. Scholars in the collection engage in an interdisciplinary discussion on popular culture, literature, performance, art history, theory, pre-cinema and early cinema.\n\nOne presumed goal of sensational reporting is to increase or sustain viewership or readership, from which media outlets can price their advertising higher to increase their profits based on higher numbers of viewers and/or readers. Sometimes this can lead to a lesser focus on objective journalism in favor of a profit motive, in which editorial choices are based upon sensational stories and presentations to increase advertising revenue. Additionally, advertisers tend to have a preference for their products or services to be reported positively in mass media, which can contribute to bias in news reporting in favor of media outlets protecting their profits and revenues, rather than reporting objectively about stated products and services.\n\nHowever, newspapers have a duty to report and investigate stories related to political corruption. Such investigative journalism is right and proper when it is backed up with documents, interviews with responsible witnesses, and other primary sources. Journalists and editors are often accused of sensationalizing scandals by those whose public image is harmed by the legitimate reporting of the scandal. News organizations are not obliged to (and are often ethically obliged \"not\" to) avoid stories that might make local, state and national public figures uncomfortable. Occasionally, news organizations mistakenly relay false information from unreliable anonymous sources, who use mass media as a tool for retaliation, defamation, victim and witness tampering, and monetary or personal gain. Therefore, any story based on sources who may be reasonably assumed to be motivated to act in this way is best interpreted with critical thinking.\n\nIn extreme cases, mass media may report only information that makes a \"good story\" without regard for factual accuracy or social relevance. It has been argued that the distrust in government that showed in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal created a new business tactic for the media and resulted in the spread of negative, dishonest and misleading news coverage of American politics; such examples include the labeling of a large number of political scandals, regardless of their importance, with the suffix \"-gate\". Such stories are often perceived (rightly or wrongly) as politically partisan or biased towards or against a group or individual because of the sensational nature in which they are reported. A media piece may report on a political figure in a biased way or present one side of an issue while deriding another. It may include sensational aspects such as zealots, doomsayers and/or junk science. Complex subjects and affairs are often subject to sensationalism. Exciting and emotionally charged aspects can be drawn out without providing the elements needed (such as pertinent background, investigative, or contextual information) for the audience to form its own opinions on the subject.\n\nSensationalism is often blamed for the infotainment style of many news programs on radio and television. According to sociologist John Thompson, the debate of sensationalism used in the mass medium of broadcasting is based on a misunderstanding of its audience, especially the television audience. Thompson explains that the term 'mass' (which is connected to broadcasting) suggests a 'vast audience of many thousands, even millions of passive individuals'. Television news is restricted to showing the scenes of crimes rather than the crime itself because of the unpredictability of events, whereas newspaper writers can always recall what they did not witness. Television news writers have room for fewer words than their newspaper counterparts. Their stories are measured in seconds, not column inches, and thus (even with footage) television stories are inherently shallower than most newspaper stories, using shorter words and familiar idioms to express ideas which a newspaper writer is more free to expand upon and define with precision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30616815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30616815", "title": "Smiling Sun", "text": "Smiling Sun\n\nThe anti-nuclear badge “Nuclear Power? No Thanks\" (Danish: Atomkraft? Nej tak.), also known as the “Smiling Sun,” is the international symbol of the anti-nuclear movement. It was ubiquitous worldwide in the late 1970s and the 1980s. BBC News reported in 2005 that few symbols had become \"as instantly recognizable across the world.\". Even the nuclear power industry recognized the logo's \"power and success,\" the BBC report said. Over 20 million Smiling Sun badges were produced in 45 national and regional languages. In recent years the logo is playing a prominent role once again to raise awareness and funding for anti-nuclear groups, especially in Germany, Austria and Switzerland where opposition is growing to plans for extending operation of old nuclear reactors and constructing new ones.\n\nThe Smiling Sun logo was designed in 1975 by Danish activist Anne Lund who was part of the Danish organization OOA (/ Organization for Information on Nuclear Power). By posing the question: “Nuclear Power?” and providing a polite answer, “No Thanks”, the logo was meant to express friendly dissent and - by questioning nuclear power - to stimulate dialogue. In 2011, after the Fukushima disaster, a new version was released for renewable energy, with the statement \"Renewable Energy\", \"Yes Please\" (Danish: \"Vedvarende Energi? Ja tak!\") on a green background with a yellow sun.\n\nThe Smiling Sun logo is an internationally registered trademark. The purpose of the copyright is to protect against alteration and prevent use by commercial and partisan political interests. Anti-nuclear groups may apply for user rights to the OOA Fund in Denmark. An online shop sells Smiling Sun merchandise in 50 different languages. The Italian political parties Green Lists and Federation of the Greens have licensed use of the symbol for their party electoral materials and logos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5620729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5620729", "title": "Society of the Friends of Truth", "text": "Society of the Friends of Truth\n\nThe Society of the Friends of Truth (Amis de la Verité), also known as the Social Club (French: \n\"Cercle social\"), was a French revolutionary organization founded in 1790. It was \"a mixture of revolutionary political club, the Masonic Lodge, and a literary salon\". It also published an influential revolutionary newspaper, the \"Mouth of Iron\".\n\nThe Society of the Friends of Truth was established by Nicholas Bonneville and Claude Fauchet, who announced its birth in the popular press on 21 February 1790. The original purpose of the club was to become a \"clearing-house\" for correspondence between and among scholars from all over Europe. In the spirit of its founders, the club wished to cultivate a \"public mandate\" under which its activities would be governed. Thus, its newsletter, \"Mouth of Iron\" (\"La Bouche de fer\"), solicited letters from readers to comment on political affairs and to issue denunciations of counter-revolutionary plots.\n\nThe club was actually launched in the month of October 1790, when the sessions \"of the Universal Confederation of the Friends of Truth\" at the Cirque du Palais-Royal started. Before an audience that ranged from five thousand to eight thousand people every week, Claude Fauchet, self-appointed \"attorney of Truth\", lectured on Jean-Jacques Rousseau's 1762 work \"The Social Contract\". The club also formulated political theories on democratic government, ultimately dismissing direct democracy in favor of a system that resembled a popularly elected dictatorship that could be dismissed by the citizens whenever its actions became insupportable. The Social Club also advocated steps toward a more equitable distribution of wealth, always with an eye to Rousseau's ideals, but the club did \"not\" support land reform.\n\nThe meetings were described in detail in the \"Mouth of Iron\", which published the proceedings of the Fauchet lectures and discussions and the mail that arrived following them. This publication is important for understanding the genesis of democratic ideas during the French Revolution. The Social Club was also the first revolutionary group to identify itself clearly as a \"cosmopolitan organization\", meaning that its aims superseded national boundaries. It made appeals to scholars worldwide, and it produced a polyglot edition of the 1791 Constitution for distribution globally. Its goal was to create a universal republic led by scholars.\n\nKey figures attending the Social Club included Nicholas Bonneville and Claude Fauchet, as well as Sylvain Maréchal, \"Gracchus\" Babeuf, , Camille Desmoulins, Bertrand Barère, and the Marquis de Condorcet. About one-hundred-thirty persons were members and attended meetings regularly.\n\nThe meetings were public because the club wanted to show the widest possible audience what discourse in the atmosphere of a literary or philosophical salon might accomplish. (This explains the choice of the Cirque du Palais-Royal as a meeting-place, rather than some smaller venue like a private home.) Spectators were invited to ask questions, and a resolution was passed at the end of each session.\n\nIn 1791, the membership of the Social Club openly declared themselves republicans. It then became a meeting place for the Girondists, who rivaled the Jacobins for primacy of republican ideology and action. The club's political orientation was liberal, and it promoted the ideal of a society composed of small and medium economic producers: craftsmen, farmers, merchants, and entrepreneurs.\n\nThe members of the Social Club also considered themselves contemporary feminists, and while no remarkable feminist change would come out of the club, the members of the club helped individually to develop the framework for what would become the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\". Olympe de Gouges, the author of the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman\", was a member of the club and would often develop her ideas through the liberal conduit of the Social Club. While the members did proclaim themselves supporters of republican ideals publicly, their embrace of feminists ideals was regarded as much more treasonous (and as such, was quite under wraps).\n\nFrom 1791 on, the club's offices operated a publishing business. It became a center for the dissemination of revolutionary literature, including numerous newspapers, political pamphlets, theatrical works, poetry, posters, etc. A number of seminal authors, Louis-Sébastien Mercier, Nicolas-Edme Rétif de la Bretonne, Bernardin de Saint-Pierre, Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, Condorcet, Jacques Pierre Brissot, and Jean-Marie Roland, were published under the club's auspices.\n\nAfter the fall of the Girondins, the club dissolved. Fauchet was arrested and executed on 31 October 1793. Bonneville, the printer, resumed activity after 9 Thermidor (27 July 1794). His press tried to resurrect the Social Club, but it never regained its previous audience. In a fragmented state, it continued to exist until Brumaire of year VIII (November 1800). By then, ideologues like Daunou, Volney, Daubenton, and Berthollet held center stage.\n\nThe \"Amis de la Verité\" was fondly remembered, and it became a touchstone for the romantics of the nineteenth century, like Charles Nodier and Victor Hugo, but it was also highly esteemed among politicians and social theorists such as Charles Fourier, Saint-Simon, and Karl Marx.\n\n\"La Bouche de fer\", the \"Mouth of Iron\", may have derived its name, sardonically, from Lucius Licinius Crassus's observation about the consul, Domitius, \"that it was no wonder that a man who had a beard of brass, also had a mouth of iron and a heart of lead.\" Others hold that the name comes from a mailbox in the shape of a lion's mouth, located at the headquarters of the club, at No. 4, rue du Théâtre-Français, where letters, petitions, proposals, denunciations, screeds, and other treatises could be deposited. A third theory is that this name, \"Mouth of Iron\", was the same name as a lodge of freemasons to which Bonneville and Fauchet had once belonged.\n\nIn any case, the \"Mouth of Iron\" was published in Paris between October 1790 and 28 July 1791, at first, three times per week, then daily, beginning on 22 June 1791. The newsletter contained comments on \"The Social Contract\" of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, essays by Claude Fauchet, transcripts of speeches by Condorcet, petitions from the \"Club of the Cordeliers\", etc. A subscription cost thirty-six pounds (livres) per year, and anyone who subscribed was automatically made a member of the Social Club; so, since casual readers and curiosity-seekers were counted as members, the size of the club's membership was probably somewhat overstated.\n\n\"La Bouche de fer\" was the origin of the famous quote, often attributed to Denis Diderot: \"Quand le dernier des rois sera pendu avec les boyaux du dernier prêtre célibataire, le genre humain pourra espérer être heureux.\" (\"When the last king is hanged with the entrails of the last celibate priest, mankind may hope to be happy.\")\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28213742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28213742", "title": "Stephen C. Headley", "text": "Stephen C. Headley\n\nStephen Cavanna Headley (born 5 August 1943 in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania) is a social anthropologist and a priest of the Orthodox Church. He is best known for his books on the anthropology of prayer and the enthnography of Central Java in Indonesia. He writes in French and English.\n\nHeadley was married to the American artist Anne Everett who died in 2013.\n\nHeadley earned a B.A. degree in Oriental Studies (Chinese and Sanskrit) from Columbia College, Columbia University in 1956 where he studied under Anton Zigmund-Cerbu. He obtained an M. A. degree in Buddhist Studies from Columbia University in 1969 and continued his studies in Paris with a diploma in Sanskrit philology at the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes (1972) and a doctorate in social anthropology under Georges Condominas at the Sorbonne in 1979. He also studied theology at Saint Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary (Crestwood, New York, 1966–1969) and at the St Sergius Institute of Orthodox Theology in Paris (1969–1973).\n\nHe worked at the French National Center for Scientific Research between 1981-2008: between 1998 and 2008 he was working with a research team founded by the anthropologist Louis Dumont. \n\nBetween 1973 and 2005 Headley did extensive fieldwork in central Java \n\nBetween 2006- 2010 he taught in Moscow and undertook field work on parish life.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "48491375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48491375", "title": "Togatus Barberini", "text": "Togatus Barberini\n\nTogatus Barberini is a Roman marble sculpture from around the first-century AD that depicts a full-body figure, referred to as a \"togatus\", holding the heads of deceased ancestors in either hand. It is housed in the Centrale Montemartini in Rome, Italy (formerly in the Capitoline Museums). Little is known about this sculpture and who it depicts, but it is speculated to be a representation of the Roman funerary practice of creating death masks.\n\nLittle is known about the identity of those depicted in the sculpture, but it is known that the type of shoes the middle figure is depicted to wear distinguishes them as a member of the Roman noble class. From this small bit of information, many theories have risen in speculation of the true identity of the center figure, but little evidence has been provided to back up many of these claims and as such they remain only theories.\n\nRecent research has suggested that represents a patrician senator, holding the heads of his ancestors. The head on the right is that of a famous general, which is evident thanks to the palm-tree support. Furthermore, it is now known that the head and body of the middle figure do not, in fact, belong to each other, evident due to the marble of the head and body being of different types and colors (the head being a white marble and the body being a yellow). This is made more evident due to the toga's finish from behind and the evidence of the restoration of the nose and ears.\n\nAccording to some, the figure is supposed to represent Brutus, holding the severed heads of his two sons, while others claim that instead it is the portrait of a sculptor. Other still believe the prominent figure to be that of Julius Caesar, while many simply claim that the figure is an unknown Roman senator.\n"}
{"id": "31441183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31441183", "title": "Vijñāna Bhairava Tantra", "text": "Vijñāna Bhairava Tantra\n\nThe Vijñāna Bhairava Tantra (sometimes spelled in a Hindicised way as \"Vigyan Bhairav Tantra\") is a key Tantra text of the Trika school of Kashmir Shaivism in Sanskrit language. Cast as a discourse between the god Bhairava and his consort Bhairavi, it briefly presents 112 Tantric meditation methods or centering techniques (\"dharana\"). These include several variants of breath awareness, concentration on various centers in the body, non-dual awareness, Mantra chanting, imagination and visualization and contemplation through each of the senses. A prerequisite to success in any of the 112 practices is a clear understanding of which method is most suitable to the practitioner.\n\nThe text is a chapter from the \"Rudrayamala Tantra\", a Bhairava Agama. Bhairavi, the goddess, asks Bhairava to reveal the essence of the way to realization of the highest reality. In his answer Bhairava describes 112 ways to enter into the universal and transcendental state of consciousness. References to it appear throughout the literature of Kashmir Shaivism, indicating that it was considered to be an important text in the monistic school of Kashmir Shaiva philosophy. Trika and Kashmiri Shaiva tradition names the Absolute Reality as Bhairava. Combination of three alphabets bha + ra + va form the word ‘’Bhairava”. Each of these three alphabets means three different acts of God. ‘bha’ means sustenance of the universe, ‘ra’ means dissolution of the universe and ‘va’ means manifestation of the universe. Vijnana Bhairava Tantra is the knowledge about the highest state of consciousness. It describes methods to merge the human consciousness with the divine consciousness or the individual consciousness with cosmic consciousness.\n\nThe text appeared in 1918 in the Kashmir Series of Text and Studies (\"KSTS\"). The Kashmir Series published two volumes, one with a commentary in Sanskrit by Kshemaraja and Shivopadhyaya and the other with a commentary, called \"Kaumadi\", by Ananda Bhatta.\n\nIn 1957, Paul Reps brought the text to wide attention by including an English translation in his popular book \"Zen Flesh, Zen Bones\". Reps' translation was the subject of a voluminous commentary by Osho.\n\nSeveral other translations and commentaries have since become available:\n\n"}
{"id": "42590557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42590557", "title": "Xenokrateia Relief", "text": "Xenokrateia Relief\n\nThe Xenokrateia Relief is a marble votive offering, dated to the end of the fifth-century BCE. It commemorates the foundation of a sanctuary to the river god Kephisos by a woman named Xenokrateia.\n\nThe relief, currently on display at the National Archaeological Museum in Athens (NAMA 2756), was found in Neo Phaliro in 1908, in the area inside the Long Walls, which in Antiquity connected the harbor of Piraeus with Athens proper, around the walls’ intersection point with the bed of the Kephisos river. It is dated on stylistic grounds to 410 BCE, and is made of Pentelic marble, while the pillar on which it stands is made of limestone.\n\nThe relief marks the foundation of a local sanctuary to the river god Kephisos. We have no knowledge of this sanctuary from literary sources, or any indication of archaeological structure in the area where the relief was discovered. This has led some scholars to propose that the sanctuary consisted of only a sacred grove and an altar. Thus, the only information we have comes from this relief and its inscription, as well as from two other finds excavated nearby – the Kephisodotos relief and an inscribed stele.\n\nThis inscription has generated many – and sometimes contradicting – interpretations. First, there is some disagreement regarding Xenokrateia’s familial status. Most scholars agree that both her father and son were named Xeniades, and that her husband is not mentioned in the inscription. Mclees thinks she was a widow or maybe that she was not legally married, Kron believes she was an heiress who did not need a guardian, and Purvis suggests that Xenokrateia was married to Kephisodotos, who dedicated the other relief mentioned earlier. Cook, however, claims Xenokrateia was the wife of Xeniades, and that she dedicated the relief “as daughter (before her marriage) and mother (after it).”\n\nIn addition, scholars are divided in their opinions on how to translate ta didaskalia and to what it refers, since no other information is given for the reason behind the dedication. This phrase is usually translated as “instructions,” “teachings,” “upbringing,” or “training.” One of the interpretations suggests that the relief was given in thanks for the education of Xenokrateia’s son. Yet it was also claimed that since dedications are given to the gods only after they fulfill what was asked of them, Xenokrateia is thanking the god for her own education which she now uses in order to educate her son. Other suggestions are that this is an act in which Xenokrateia places her son under the protection of Kephisos, or that it was given in thanks after her son won a singing competition.\n\nThe main problem regarding this relief is the identification of the thirteen figures portrayed on it. Unfortunately, most of the figures lack attributes, thus they cannot be identified with certainty, and scholars vary in their opinions in this regard, since such little secure evidence leaves a great room for hypothesis and guesswork. For example, while it is clear that the third figure from the left is holding an object, it is unclear what it is. It was identified as a kerykeion, meaning the figure is Hermes, as a loom, claiming that this is Rhapso, one of the Moirai, who weave the destinies of men, and as a torch held by Artemis. \nThe attributes of the figures on the relief must have been painted on rather than carved, since otherwise they would make less sense to the visitors of the sanctuary. Most scholars assume that the two figures in the smaller scale are Xenokrateia and her son, and that she is introducing him to Kephisos, so that the god may oversee the boy’s growth to adulthood.\n\nIn order to decipher the composition of the Xenokrateia Relief and to identify the figures portrayed on it, scholars use the two other finds from the site. The first is an inscribed stele with names of some divinities in the dative case, and it is understood by some as the sacrificial regulation of the sanctuary. However, since there is no mention of a cult, a sacrifice, or any instructions, others consider this stele as another votive offering. The names inscribed upon the stele are Hestia, Kephisos, Apollo Pythios, Leto, Artemis Lochia (of birth), Eileithyia, Acheloos, Kallirohe, the Geraistian nymphs of birth, and Rhapso. This is an interesting list, as most of these deities were perceived as nurturing and protecting children. Unfortunately, this list cannot represent the gods in our relief, since while the relief depicts five gods and six goddesses, the stele names three gods and nine goddesses, assuming that there are three Geraistian nymphs, since nymphs are usually depicted in groups of three in Athenian art. However, some of the deities named on the stele might also appear on our relief.\n\nNext is the double relief of Kephisodotos, also dated to 410 BCE. On one side it depicts the hero Acheloos, kidnapping a nymph whose name is inscribed as Iasila, while Hermes is leading the chariot. On the other side, Kephisos, depicted as a horned god, stands in the middle. On the right are three nymphs and on the left appear two other unidentified figures. The inscription says it is a dedication to Hermes and the nymphs, thus demonstrating that there were even more divinities associated with this sanctuary.\n\nThe one certain identification on the Xenokrateia relief is the figure on the far left. This is the god Apollo, sitting on a tripod, resting his legs on an Omphalos, near to which stands an eagle. The figure to his right is usually identified as Apollo’s mother, Leto, or as his sister, Artemis. Some scholars identify Artemis as the third figure from the left, while others identify it as Hermes, Leto, Rhapso, or an unidentified youth. The two figures of a smaller scale are almost unanimously identified as Xenokrateia and her son, Xeniades, since Greek art usually depict humans as smaller than deities. The figure who interacts with Xenokrateia and her son is usually identified as either Kephisos or merely a priest.\n\nThere is a great uncertainty regarding the next five figures, and there are many possible identifications for them, namely Hestia, Eileithyia, Leto, Rhapso, nymphs or river-gods such as Kephisos or Ilisos. Finally, of the two figures on the far right, the one on the top is understood to be Kallirhoe or a statue of hers, although some suggest it is Eileithyia or Hecate, and the bull-like deity on the bottom, is identified as the river-god Acheloos by almost all scholars.\n\nThus, most of the suggestions identify Xenokrateia and her son in this relief and attempt to match to them the relevant deities. However, there is one interpretation that deviates from this line of thought. Stais claims that this relief depicts the mythological participants of the Athenian myth of Ion, in which the Athenian princess Creusa was raped by Apollo and gave birth to his son, Ion, whom she exposed to the elements. He was rescued by Apollo, however, and guided to Delphi by Hermes. Years later, when Creusa arrived to Delphi with her husband, Xuthos, to ask why they cannot have children, she is reunited with her son. Following this myth, Stais identified the first three figures as Apollo, his mother, Leto, and his sister, Artemis, while recognizing the next five figures as the participants of this myth: the Pythia, who was Apollo’s priestess, Ion, Xuthus, Hermes, and Creusa. Next he identifies three nymphs and Eileithyia. Finally he believes that the bull-like deity is Kephisos, thus connecting the myth of Ion to the locality of the sanctuary.\n\n\n\n"}
