{"id": "14241989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14241989", "title": "Abolition of Feudal Tenure etc. (Scotland) Act 2000", "text": "Abolition of Feudal Tenure etc. (Scotland) Act 2000\n\nThe Abolition of Feudal Tenure etc. (Scotland) Act 2000 was a land reform enforced by an Act of the Scottish Parliament that was passed by the Scottish Parliament on 3 May 2000, and received Royal Assent on 9 June 2000. \n\nThe Act officially brought to an end annual feu duties, a vestige of feudal land tenure, on 28 November 2004 (that is, Martinmas, as the Act required the \"appointed day\" to be one of the Scottish term days). Tommy Sheridan was one of a number of MSPs who drove this change through the Scottish Parliament. After that date, the former vassal of an estate was the sole owner of the land, and the former superior's rights were extinguished. For a further two years, the superior had the option of claiming compensation; this was fixed at a single payment of a size that, when invested at an annual rate of 2.5%, it would yield interest equal to the former feu duty. Because inflation had eroded the value of duties, which had been fixed many years before, this payment was in most cases extremely small compared with the current value of the land.\n\nIn consequence of this change in the legal basis of land-holding, the Act also reformulated the legal basis on which conditions on the use of land can be specified in the title to ownership of that land. Such title conditions (known variously as real burdens and real conditions in the prior law) were combined into \"real burdens\". Prior to the Act, a superior could choose to enforce title conditions, or grant a consent or waiver (usually for payment) allowing the land owner to disregard the condition even if otherwise neighbouring property owners might wish to enforce the condition. Existing conditions which were enforceable only by the superior were abolished, and only conditions enforceable by the owners of neighbouring property or by certain legal bodies on public policy grounds were retained. Transitional arrangements allowed superiors who were also neighbouring property owners to convert the old title conditions to benefit their land and hence themselves as owners of that land rather than themselves as feudal superior.\n\nFollowing this change in the legal basis for title conditions, the Title Conditions (Scotland) Act 2003 was passed, reconstituting the mechanics of how new real burdens and servitudes could be created. These two Acts, together with a third Act (the Tenements (Scotland) Act 2004), commenced on 28 November 2004.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8336893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8336893", "title": "Abraham George", "text": "Abraham George\n\nDr. Abraham M. George is an Indian-American businessman, academic, and philanthropist. He is the founder of The George Foundation (TGF), a non-profit organization based in Bangalore, India dedicated to the welfare and empowerment of economically and socially disadvantaged populations in India. His foundation has initiated numerous projects in poverty alleviation, education, healthcare, lead poisoning prevention, women's empowerment, and press freedom.\n\nNotable projects he has spearheaded include the creation of Shanti Bhavan, a free K-12 boarding school of international standards for children from disadvantaged backgrounds, and the creation of the now prestigious Indian Institute of Journalism & New Media, a graduate school of journalism in Bangalore where he currently serves as the dean. He also pioneered the successful effort to remove lead content from gasoline throughout India in April 2000 and was instrumental in the creation of the National Referral Centre for Lead Poisoning in India that undertook preventive initiatives against lead poisoning from paint, lead smelters and other sources. Baldev Medical & Community Centre run by his foundation offers outpatient care to 17 villages near Shanti Bhavan, and has built free quality homes in 7 villages. He pioneered a major women's empowerment project that employed over 150 poor families in a banana farm on 200 plus acres -- one of the largest of its kind in South India. \n\nIn addition to his philanthropic efforts, George is an Adjunct Professor at Stern School of Business, New York University.\n\nHe has also been recognized as one of the world's leading social entrepreneurs.\n\nGeorge was born and brought up in the seaside city of Trivandrum, Kerala, at the southwestern tip of India. He is the second son of Mathew and Aleyamma George, one of four children.\n\nAt fourteen, George was admitted to the prestigious National Defence Academy in Khadakwasla. He subsequently went on to graduate as a Second-Lieutenant in a medium artillery regiment of the Indian Army. George's first posting in 1966 was to the Northeast Frontier that borders China, following the Chinese invasion of 1962. He is credited with establishing a medium artillery gun position at an altitude of 14,000 ft. in Sela Pass in the North East Frontier of the Himalayas.\n\nThe assignment in Se La in Northeast Frontier of India ended abruptly after only ten months when George was injured in a dynamite explosion. Upon his return from convalescence, he was assigned to the Indo-Pakistan border where he served for nearly two more years and rose to the rank of Captain.\". \"George has spoken of his time in the army as formative experience: \"There is, I suppose, some stage in each one’s life that has a greater impact on his future than all others. For me, it was these army experiences that helped shape much of my outlook on life.\"\n\nIn 1968, the third year of George's service, he suffered a hearing disability that would plague him for the rest of his life. At the time, doctors in India were not trained to tackle his medical condition; it required specialized surgery. By this point, his mother was already in the United States, teaching physics and working for NASA as a research scientist. His mother's position afforded him the opportunity to come to America where he could have his surgery and start a new life.\n\nGeorge joined his mother in Alabama during the heyday of the segregationist governor, George Wallace. He found the transition to be overwhelming, later writing of it: \"I felt I had gone to another world, not simply another country\".\n\nSoon after arriving in America, George attended New York University's Stern School of Business as a graduate student. During that time, he became an American citizen. He specialized in developmental economics and international finance, and soon after completing his doctoral work he decided to enter the teaching profession. Later, Chemical Bank, now part of JP Morgan Chase Bank, offered George a job as an officer in the bank which he accepted.\n\nGeorge had worked for Chemical Bank for two years when he decided in 1976 to start his own company, Multinational Computer Models, Inc (MCM), which would offer computerized systems to large multinational corporations to enable them to deal with their international financial risks. MCM subsequently formed a joint venture with the global investment bank Credit Suisse First Boston where George served as the Chief Consultant and Managing Director of its new operations. In 1998, George sold MCM to SunGard Data Systems, a Fortune 500 company, where he served as a Vice-Chairman for two years. He was on the boards of Vellore Christian Medical College & Hospital, International Center for Journalists, and Human Rights Watch.\n\nGeorge returned to India in January 1995 after a long absence. His intent was to reduce the injustices and inequalities of which he had become aware and to this end he established The George Foundation, a non-profit charitable trust. One of his initial projects, Shanti Bhavan Residential School, offers world-class education and care to children from the poorest segment of India who are also from the dalit or \"untouchable\" castes. As of 2017, after 20 years of the school's operations, the first four batches have now graduated from college and are employed by global companies like Mercedes Benz, Goldman Sachs, Ernst & Young and others -- an accomplishment that has no parallel in India's social history. The Shanti Bhavan story is told by the life-journey of five of its girls in a four-part NETFLIX documentary, Daughters of Destiny.\n\nGeorge was an expert in the international finance arena, authoring several books and articles on the topic:\n\n\nSince becoming a full-time philanthropist, George has written several articles and has published two books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19278647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19278647", "title": "Allied Control Council", "text": "Allied Control Council\n\nThe Allied Control Council or Allied Control Authority, known in the German language as the ' and also referred to as the Four Powers (), was the governing body of the Allied Occupation Zones in Germany and Austria after the end of World War II in Europe. The members were the Soviet Union, the United States, the United Kingdom, and France. The organization was based in Berlin-Schöneberg. The council was convened to determine several plans for postwar Europe, including how to change borders and transfer populations in Eastern Europe and Germany. As the four Allied Powers had joined themselves into a condominium asserting 'supreme' power in Germany, the Allied Control Council was constituted the sole legal sovereign authority for Germany as a whole, replacing the extinct civil government of Nazi Germany. \n\nAllied preparations for the postwar occupation of Germany began during the second half of 1944, after Allied forces began entering Germany in September 1944. Most of the planning was carried out by the European Advisory Commission (EAC) established in early 1944. By 3 January 1944, the Working Security Committee in the EAC concluded that\n\nThe EAC also recommended the creation of a tripartite US, Soviet, and British agency to conduct German affairs following the surrender of the Third Reich. The British representative at the EAC, Sir William Strang, was undecided on whether a partial occupation of Germany by Allied troops was the most desirable course of action. At the first EAC meeting on January 14, 1944, Strang proposed alternatives that favored the total occupation of Germany, similar to the situation following the First World War when Allied rule was established over the Rhineland. Strang believed that a full occupation would limit the reliance on former Nazis to maintain order within Germany. He also believed that it would make the lessons of defeat more visible to the German population and would enable the Allied governments to carry out punitive policies in Germany, such as transferring territories to Poland. The main arguments against total occupation were that it would create an untold burden on Allied economies and prolong the suffering of the German population, possibly driving new revanchist ideologies. However, his final conclusion was that a total occupation would be most beneficial, at least during the initial phase.\nIn August 1944, the US government established the United States Group to the Control Council for Germany, which served as a liaison group within the EAC for planning the future occupation of Germany. The chairman of this group was Brig. Gen. Cornelius Wendell Wickersham.\n\nAs the German collapse approached, Strang became convinced that Germany was about to undergo a total collapse, in which case a total occupation and control would be inevitable. He even proposed a draft declaration to be issued by the Allied governments in case no political authority remained in Germany due to chaotic conditions. For a brief period, this prospect was feared by some Allied representatives.\nAfter the death of Adolf Hitler on 30 April 1945, Karl Dönitz assumed the title of president of Germany in accordance with Hitler's last political testament. As such, he authorised the signing, of the unconditional surrender of all German armed forces, which took effect on 8 May 1945, and tried to establish a government under Ludwig Graf Schwerin von Krosigk in Flensburg. This government was not recognised by the Allies, and Dönitz and the other members were arrested on 23 May by British forces.\n\nThe German Instrument of Surrender signed in Berlin had been drafted by the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Force and was modeled on the one used a few days previously for the surrender of the German forces in Italy. They did not use the one which had been drafted for the surrender of Germany by the \"European Advisory Commission\" (EAC). This created a legal problem for the Allies, because although the German military forces had surrendered unconditionally, no counterpart \"civilian\" German government had been included in the surrender. This was considered a very important issue, inasmuch as Hitler had used the surrender of the civilian government, but \"not\" of the military, in 1918, to create the \"stab in the back\" argument. The Allies understandably did not want to give any future hostile German regime any kind of legal argument to resurrect an old quarrel. Eventually, and determined not to accord any recognition to the Flensburg administration, they agreed to sign a four-power declaration of the terms of the German surrender instead. On 5 June 1945, in Berlin, the supreme commanders of the four occupying powers signed a common Declaration Regarding the Defeat of Germany (the so-called Berlin Declaration of 1945), which formally confirmed the total dissolution of the Third Reich at the death of Adolf Hitler, and the consequent termination of any German governance over the nation:\nThis imposition was in line with Article 4 of the Instrument of Surrender that had been included so that the EAC document, or something similar, could be imposed on the Germans after the military surrender. Article 4 stated that \"This act of military surrender is without prejudice to, and will be superseded by any general instrument of surrender imposed by, or on behalf of the United Nations and applicable to GERMANY and the German armed forces as a whole.\" In reality, of course, all German central civilian authority had ceased to exist with the death of Hitler and the fall of Berlin at the latest. These parts of the Berlin declaration, therefore, merely formalised the \"de facto\" status and placed the Allied military rule over Germany on a solid legal basis.\n\nAn additional agreement was signed on 20 September 1945 and further elaborated the powers of the Control Council.\n\nThe actual exercise of power was carried out according to the model first laid out in the \"Agreement on Control Machinery in Germany\" that had been signed by the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union on 14 November 1944 in London based on the work of the EAC. Germany was divided into four zones of occupation—American, French, British, and Soviet—each being ruled by the Commander-in-Chief of the respective occupation forces. \"Matters that affect Germany as a whole,\" however, would have to be decided jointly by all four Commanders-in-Chief, who for this purpose would form a single organ of control. This authority was called the Control Council.\n\nThe purpose of the Allied Control Council in Germany, like the other Allied Control Commissions and Councils which were established by the Allies over every defeated Axis power, was to deal with the central administration of the country (an idea that hardly materialised in the case of Germany, as that administration totally broke down with the end of the war) and to assure that the military administration was carried out with a certain uniformity throughout all of Germany. The Potsdam Agreement of 2 August 1945 further specified the tasks of the Control Council.\n\nOn 30 August 1945, the Control Council constituted itself and issued its first proclamation, which informed the German people of the Council's existence and asserted that the commands and directives issued by the Commanders-in-Chief in their respective zones were not affected by the establishment of the Council. The initial members of the Control Council were Marshal Georgy Zhukov for the Soviet Union, General of the Army Dwight Eisenhower for the United States, Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery for the United Kingdom, and General Jean de Lattre de Tassigny for France.\n\nSubsequently, the Control Council issued a substantial number of laws, directives, orders, and proclamations. They dealt with the abolition of Nazi laws and organisations, demilitarisation, denazification, but also with such comparatively pedestrian matters as telephone tariffs and the combat of venereal diseases. On many issues the council was unable to impose its resolutions, as real power lay in the hands of the separate Allied governments and their military governors, and the council issued recommendations that did not have the force of law. On 20 September 1945, the council issued Directive no. 10, which divided the various official acts of the Control Council into five categories:\n\nDirective no. 11 of the same day made the work of the council more orderly by establishing English, French, Russian and German as the official languages of the council, and by establishing an official gazette to publish the council's official acts.\n\nLaw no. 1 of the Control Council (also enacted on 20 September 1945) repealed some of the stricter Nazi laws enacted under the Third Reich. This established the legal basis for the council's work.\n\nDirective no. 51 (29 April 1947), repealing Directive no. 10, simplified the council's legislative work by reducing the categories of legislative acts to Proclamations, Laws and Orders.\n\nDirective no. 9 (30 August 1945) charged the legal division of the council with responsibility for carrying out the provisions of the London Agreement on the prosecution of German war criminals, signed in London on 8 August.\n\nShortly after the commencement of the Nuremberg Trial, the council enacted Law no. 10 (20 December 1945), which authorized every occupying power to have its own legal system to try war criminals and to conduct such trials independently of the International Military Tribunal then sitting at Nuremberg. Law no. 10 resulted from disagreements arising among the Allied governments regarding a common policy on war criminals and marked the beginning of the decline in inter-Allied cooperation to that effect. Following the conclusion of the Nuremberg Trial of Major War Criminals in October 1946, inter-Allied cooperation on war crimes totally collapsed.\n\nOn 12 October 1946, the council issued Directive no. 38, which, while trying to impose some common rules, allowed the four occupation governments discretion as to treatment of persons arrested by them for suspected war crimes, including the right to grant amnesty.\n\nOrder no. 1 of August 30, 1945 prohibited the wearing of uniform of the German Army, which now ceased to exist.\n\nAn order dated September 10, ordered the recall of all German government agents and/or diplomatic representatives from the countries to which they were assigned. Another order of the same day established procedure for disseminating information to the press on the council's work, ordering that a press release be issued following every meeting of the council.\n\nDirective no. 18 (November 12, 1945) provided for the dissolution of all German Army units, all within a time limit to be decided upon. This directive reflects the policy taken by the western Allied governments of using German military units for their own logistical purposes, a move objected by the Soviet government. The complete dissolution of all German military units and military training was provided for in Law no. 8 (November 30, 1945), which became effective on December 1, 1945.\n\nLaw no. 4 (October 30, 1945) reestablished the German court system according to German legislation enacted prior to Hitler's rise to power.\n\nDirective no. 16 (November 6, 1945) provided for the equipment of the German police forces with light weapons to combat crime, while the carrying of automatic rifles was prohibited except with special Allied permission.\n\nLaw no. 21 (March 30, 1946) provided for the establishment of labor courts to resolve labor disputes within the German population. These courts were to be run by German judges.\n\nGradually, the Allied governments relaxed their control over German political life, and on June 3, 1946, the Political Directorate of the Control Council recommended to hold municipal elections in the city of Berlin in October of the same year. On August 3, 1946, the council approved a new provisional constitution for Greater Berlin metropolitan area. Another reform relating to Berlin took place on August 22, 1946, as the council approved a reform plan for the police of Greater Berlin, which assigned four assistants to the Berlin Chief of Police, each to oversee police work in each of the four occupation sectors in that metropolitan area.\n\nLaw no. 2 (October 10, 1945) provided for the total dissolution of the National Socialist Party, and its revival was totally prohibited. As part of the denazification policy, Directive no. 23 (December 17, 1945) prohibited any athletic activities that was being done as part of military or para-military training, prohibition to be effective as of January 1, 1946.\n\nDirective no. 24 (January 12, 1946) established a set of comprehensive criteria for the removal from public office those \"who have been more than nominal participants in its (Nazi Party) activities\" and provided for their removal from any civil service or work in civil organization, labor unions, industry, education or the press and any work other than simple labor. The category of persons to which the directive applied were those who held significant positions in the Nazi Party or those who joined prior to 1937, the time when membership became compulsory for German citizens.\n\nIn order to eradicate the influence of Nazi literature on the German population, Order no. 4 (May 13, 1946) prohibited the publication and dissemination of Nazi or militarist literature and demanded to hand over any existing such literature to the Allied authorities.\n\nLaw no. 31 (July 1, 1946) prohibited the German police authorities to conduct any surveillance of political activities by German citizens in the various occupation zones.\n\nSome reforms were symbolic in nature. Law no. 46 (February 25, 1947) proclaimed the abolition of Prussia as an administrative unit within Germany, citing past militarism associated with that name as the cause for the change. The Prussian government had already been abolished by Hitler in 1934. Part of the former territory of Prussia was no longer even populated by Germans, as it became part of Poland after most Germans had been forcibly relocated westward, while the rest of the territory of Prussia was divided among other German Länder.\n\nLaw no. 57 (August 30, 1947) dissolved all German insurance companies that were connected with the German Labor Front, established on May 1, 1933.\n\nOne major issue dealt with by the Control Council was the decision made at the Potsdam Conference regarding the forced removal of German minorities from Czechoslovakia, Hungary and Poland to Allied Occupied Germany. On November 20, 1945, the council approved a plan to that effect, to be completed by July 1946. France, not having been a party to the Potsdam conference, reserved the right not to be bound by any agreements made there; and accordingly refused to accept German expellees into the French zone of occupation.\n\nOn September 10, 1945 the council issued an appeal to the separate Allied military governors, requesting them to relax trade regulations between the four occupation zones, but this was only a recommendation, as each Allied government maintained the real power on such matters.\n\nOn September 17, the council issued recommendations to the four occupying powers to establish tracing bureaus to assist displaced persons.\n\nOn September 20, the council issued an order prohibiting fraternization between Allied military personnel and the German population, effective from October 1, except in cases of marriage or when a military governor decided to billet his soldiers with a German family.\n\nLaw no. 5 (October 30, 1945) created the German External Property Commission, which was authorized to confiscate any German assets outside of Germany until the Control Council decided how to dispose of it in the interests of peace. The composition of that commission was decided in Directive no. 21 (November 20, 1945).\n\nLaw no. 7 (November 30, 1945) regulated the distribution of electricity and gas in the various occupation zones.\n\nLaw no. 9 (the same day) provided for the confiscation of all assets owned by the IG Farben conglomerate.\n\nLaw no. 32 (July 10, 1946) permitted the German local authorities to employ women in manual labor, this due to the shortage in manpower. Supplement to Directive no. 14 (September 13, 1946) equalized the wages of female and minor workers with male workers.\n\nLaw no. 49 (March 20, 1947) abrogated the German law of 1933 which governed relations between the German government and the German Evangelical Church, while keeping the independence of that church in internal matters. Law no. 62 (February 20, 1948) repealed all Nazi laws regulating the activities of churches in Germany.\n\nFrom the first, the French sought to exploit their position on the Control Council to obstruct aspects of Allied policy they saw as contrary to their national interest. De Gaulle had not been invited to the Potsdam Conference, and accordingly the French did not accept any obligation to abide by the Potsdam Agreement in the proceedings of the Allied Control Council. In particular, they resisted all proposals to establish common policies and institutions across Germany as a whole, and anything that they feared might lead to the emergence of an eventual unified German government\n\nRelations between the Western Allies (especially the United States and the United Kingdom) and the Soviet Union subsequently deteriorated, and so did their cooperation in the administration of occupied Germany. Within each zone each power ran its own administration, such as the (GMZFO) in Karlsruhe, the Soviet Military Administration in Germany (; , SVAG) in East Berlin, the Control Commission for Germany - British Element (CCG/BE) in , and the Office of Military Government, United States (OMGUS) in West Berlin and Frankfurt. Already in September 1946, disagreement arose regarding the distribution of coal for industry in the four occupation zones, and the Soviet representative in the council withdrew his support of the plan agreed upon by the governments of the United States, Britain and France. Against Soviet protests, the two English-speaking powers pushed for a heightened economic collaboration between the different zones, and on 1 January 1947 the British and American zones merged to form the Bizone. Over the course of 1947 and early 1948, they began to prepare the currency reform that would introduce the Deutsche Mark, and ultimately the creation of an independent West German state. When the Soviets learned about this, they claimed that such plans were in violation of the Potsdam Agreement, that obviously the Western powers were not interested in further regular four-power control of Germany, and that under such circumstances the Control Council had no purpose any more. On 20 March 1948, Marshal Vasily Sokolovsky, the Soviet representative, walked out of the meeting of the Council, never to return.\n\nAs the Control Council could only act with the agreement of all four members, this move basically shut down the institution, while the Cold War reached an early high point during the Soviet blockade of Berlin. The Allied Control Council was not formally dissolved, but ceased all activity except the operations of the Four-Power Authorities, namely the management of the Spandau Prison where persons convicted at the Nuremberg Trials were held until 1987, and the Berlin Air Safety Center.\n\nThe Western powers instituted the Allied High Commission by September 1949 which remained in operation until 1955, and which approved the Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany. In Eastern Germany, the Soviet administration with its representative of the ACC was the highest authority, later this position was converted to a High Commissioner as well, until the German Democratic Republic gained sovereignty.\n\nIn establishing the Allied Control Council as the supreme authority for Germany and the sole legal repository of German national sovereignty, the Allied Powers of 1945 had envisaged that this sovereignty would eventually be passed on to a new German state, once a unified German government adequate for the purpose had been established. So the breakdown of the Allied Control Council created a constitutional dilemma for both the nascent Federal Republic and GDR; as neither new state could claim formal approval of their constitutions from the full Control Council; and it was unclear how otherwise they might claim legitimate sovereignty over the parts of Germany under their control. \n\nThe Allied Control Council met once again in 1971, leading to agreement on transit arrangements in Berlin. During the talks for unification of Germany in late 1989, it was decided to convene the ACC again as a forum for solving the issue of Allied rights and privileges in Germany.\n\nGermany remained under nominal military occupation until 15 March 1991, when the final ratification of the Treaty on the Final Settlement With Respect to Germany (signed on 12 September 1990) was lodged with the German Government. This, as the final peace treaty signed by the four powers and the two German governments, formally restored full sovereignty to a reunified Germany. It also meant the official end of the Allied Control Council.\n\nThe Council had held its final meeting on 2 October 1990, on the eve of the reunification of Germany, when it promulgated the formal documents – already agreed in advance – that authorized the inclusion of the city of Berlin in the German reunification. This was necessary because, until then, West Berlin was legally not a part of the Federal Republic of Germany, although it was administered by it. But with the allied Souveränitätserklärung (Sovereignty Declaration) agreed in the Council, the Federal Republic was allowed to assume legal control of Berlin at the moment of German reunification (although the withdrawal of the Allied military presence had to wait until 1994, in accordance with the timeframe provided by the Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany).\n\nDuring its short active life, the Allied Control Council was housed in and operated from the former building of the Kammergericht, the supreme court of the state of Prussia, which is situated in Berlin's Schöneberg borough in the American sector. \nThe building itself had suffered some battle damage, losing a central tower, but had remained mostly usable. After the cessation of most council activity in 1948, all occupying powers quickly withdrew from the building to their respective sectors of the city, leaving the facility cold, empty and dark.\n\nOnly one four-power organisation, the Berlin Air Safety Center (BASC), remained in the building from 1945 until December 31, 1990. As a symbol of the BASC's continued presence, the four national flags of the occupying powers still flew over the large front doors every day. The only other signs of occupancy were the few, sparse office lights that emanated from a small corner room of the building—the BASC Operations Room—in the evenings. Of the 550 rooms in the building, the BASC office complex and guards' quarters occupied fewer than forty.\n\nBecause of the BASC's presence, the building remained closely guarded by United States military guards, with access granted only to select members of the four powers. This led to mysterious legends and ghost stories about the eerie, dark facility with its grand, granite statuary overlooking the beautiful park.\n\nAfter the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the departure of Russian troops in August 1994 (a withdrawal that took place in accordance with article 4 of the Two Plus Four Treaty), the building was returned to the German government. In 1997, its erstwhile occupant, the Kammergericht, moved in. It now functions as the supreme court of the state of Berlin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "208559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208559", "title": "Backbencher", "text": "Backbencher\n\nIn Westminster parliamentary systems, a backbencher is a Member of Parliament (MP) or a legislator who holds no governmental office and is not a frontbench spokesperson in the Opposition, being instead simply a member of the \"rank and file\".\nThe term dates from 1855. The term derives from the fact that they sit they sit physically behind the frontbench in the House of Commons. A backbencher may be a new parliamentary member yet to receive high office, a senior figure dropped from government, someone who for whatever reason is not chosen to sit either in the ministry or the opposition Shadow Ministry, or someone who prefers to be a background influence, not in the spotlight. By extension, those who are not reliable supporters of all of their party's goals and policies and have resigned themselves or been forced to resign may be relegated to the back benches. For example, Clive Lewis becoming a backbencher after resigning from Jeremy Corbyn's shadow cabinet over Brexit. \n\nIn most parliamentary systems, backbenchers individually do not have much power to influence government policy. However, they play a role in providing services to their constituents, in relaying the opinions and concerns of their constituents, for example, asking the government for funding for a project in their constituency. Some backbenchers also sit on parliamentary committees, where legislation is considered in more detail than there is time for on the floor of the House and, thereby, provide valuable input into the legislative process. The Wright Committee reforms introduction in the UK provided backbenchers with much more power in committees, giving Parliament greater control of its agenda, increasing backbench membership in committees vastly. In addition, since backbenchers generally form the vast majority of MPs, collectively they can sometimes exercise considerable power especially in cases where the policies of the government are unpopular or when a governing party is internally split. Backbenchers carry a considerable amount of influence when the government majority is small, for example, Theresa May's government from 2017 on wards has been defeated sixteen times in the House of Commons, whereas, David Cameron's majority government was defeated three times in the House of Commons.\n\nIn some legislative assemblies, sitting at the back of the chamber is not necessarily associated with having a minor role. In Switzerland, senior figures sit in the back rows in order to have a better overview and be closer to the doors for discussions outside the plenary. In Germany, the party leaders sit in the front row, but there are no designated places for other senior figures. Originally, the importance of the front rows for the leaders had also to do with the fact that acoustics were often unsatisfactory before microphones were introduced.\n\nThe term \"backbencher\" has also been adopted outside parliamentary systems, such as the United States Congress. While legislative branches in presidential systems do not share the firm front bench/back bench dichotomy of the Westminster system, the term has been used to denote junior legislators, or legislators who are not part of party leadership within a legislative body. When Democrat Tim Ryan of Ohio ran against Nancy Pelosi of California for House Minority Leader in 2016, the \"Washington Post\" reported that he \"emerged from the backbench — he literally sits on the last bench in the chamber\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48918223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48918223", "title": "Bundestag Science Prize", "text": "Bundestag Science Prize\n\nThe Bundestag Science Prize (in German: Wissenschaftspreis des Deutschen Bundestages) is a science prize to the value of €10,000 that is awarded every two years for outstanding works about parliamentarism. The prize donor is the German Bundestag.\n"}
{"id": "8340146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8340146", "title": "Conference of Ambassadors", "text": "Conference of Ambassadors\n\nThe Conference of Ambassadors of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers was an inter-allied organization of the Entente in the period following the end of World War I. Formed in Paris in January 1920 it became a successor of the Supreme War Council and was later on \"de facto\" incorporated into the League of Nations as one of its governing bodies. It became less active after the Locarno Treaties of 1925 and formally ceased to exist in 1931 or 1935.\n\nThe Conference consisted of ambassadors of Great Britain, Italy, and Japan accredited in Paris and French minister of foreign affairs. The ambassador of the United States attended as an observer because the United States was not an official party to the Treaty of Versailles. French diplomat René Massigli was its secretary-general for its entire existence. It was chaired by foreign minister of France (among them Georges Clemenceau, Raymond Poincaré and Aristide Briand).\n\nIt was formed to enforce peace treaties and to mediate various territorial disputes among European states. Some of the disputed regions handled by the Conference included Cieszyn Silesia (between Poland and Czechoslovakia), the Vilnius Region (between Poland and Lithuania), the Klaipėda Region (between Germany and Lithuania) and the Corfu Incident (between Italy and Greece). One of its major territorial decisions was made on 15 March 1923, in recognizing the eastern borders of Poland created following the Polish–Soviet War of 1920.\n\nThe Conference of Ambassadors of the Principal Allied and Associated Powers was appointed by the League of Nations to take charge of the Greek/Albanian border dispute that turned into the Corfu Incident of 1923.\n\nJules Laroche and Massigli were the first two Secretaries-General. The Conference of Ambassadors are contradicted by the existence of the general secretariat and a row of committees and commissions, who worked as permanent or sometimes ad hoc advisers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38989243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38989243", "title": "DEFCAD", "text": "DEFCAD\n\nDEFCAD, Inc. is an Austin-based startup that has created a search engine and web portal for designers and hobbyists to find and develop 3D printable and other CAD models online launched by Defense Distributed.\n\nWhen Makerbot Industries' removed firearms-related 3D Printable files at the public repository Thingiverse in December 2012, the open source software firm Defense Distributed launched DEFCAD as a companion site to publicly host the removed files and its own.\nPublic and community submissions to DEFCAD rose quickly, and in March 2013, at the SXSW Interactive festival, Cody Wilson announced a repurposed and expanded site and company that would serve as a 3D search engine and development hub.\n\nDEFCAD has been called \"The Pirate Bay of 3D Printing\" and \"the anti-Makerbot\".\n\nDEFCAD began as a repository where users could upload and download CAD models, but quickly became a community with the addition of an IRC channel and public forums. The site has over 2,500 community users and offers access to over 100,000 models.\n\nIn August 2013, DEFCAD released the public alpha of its 3D search engine which indexes public object repositories and allows users to add their own objects. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "26140908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26140908", "title": "Delegation of the European Union to Moldova", "text": "Delegation of the European Union to Moldova\n\nThe Delegation of the European Union to Moldova () was established to facilitate relations between Moldova and the European Union. It is located in Moldova's capital, Chișinău.\n\nThe European Commission opened up a new office in Moldova on October 6, 2005 headed by Cesare de Montis. The interim President of Moldova, Mihai Ghimpu, awarded the Honour Order to Cesare de Montis in October 2009 at the end of his mandate in Moldova. \n\nThe Head of the European Union Delegation to Moldova has been Ambassador Dirk Steffen Schuebel since November 2009. Before, Dirk Schuebel was the Deputy Head of the Delegation of the European Commission to Ukraine. \n\nIn April 2013, the appointment of Pirkka Tapiola as new Head of the EU Delegation to Moldova was announced.\n\nThe \"Delegation of the European Union to Moldova\" is located at 12 Kogălniceanu Street, in Central Chișinău.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2234277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2234277", "title": "Demand management", "text": "Demand management\n\nDemand management is a planning methodology used to forecast, plan for and manage the demand for products and services. This can be at macro-levels as in economics and at micro-levels within individual organizations. For example, at macro-levels, a government may influence interest rates in order to regulate financial demand. At the micro-level, a cellular service provider may provide free night and weekend use in order to reduce demand during peak hours.\n\nDemand management has a defined set of processes, capabilities and recommended behaviors for companies that produce goods and services. Consumer electronics and goods companies often lead in the application of demand management practices to their demand chains; demand management outcomes are a reflection of policies and programs to influence demand as well as competition and options available to users and consumers. Effective demand management follows the concept of a \"closed loop\" where feedback from the results of the demand plans is fed back into the planning process to improve the predictability of outcomes. Many practices reflect elements of systems dynamics. Volatility is being recognized as significant an issue as the focus on variance of demand to plans and forecasts.\n\nIn macroeconomics, \"demand management\" is the art or science of controlling aggregate demand to avoid a recession.\n\nDemand management at the macroeconomic level involves the use of discretionary policy and is inspired by Keynesian economics, though today elements of it are part of the economic mainstream. The underlying idea is for the government to use tools like interest rates, taxation, and public expenditure to change key economic decisions like consumption, investment, the balance of trade, and public sector borrowing resulting in an 'evening out' of the business cycle. Demand management was widely adopted in the 1950s to 1970s, and was for a time successful. However, it did not prevent the stagflation of the 1970s, which is considered to have been precipitated by the supply shock caused by the 1973 oil crisis.\n\nTheoretical criticisms of demand management are that it relies on a long-run Phillips Curve for which there is no evidence, and that it produces dynamic inconsistency and can therefore be non-credible.\n\nToday, most governments relatively limit interventions in demand management to tackling short-term crises, and rely on policies like independent central banks and fiscal policy rules to prevent long-run economic disruption.\n\nIn natural resources management and environmental policy more generally, demand management refers to policies to control consumer demand for environmentally sensitive or harmful goods such as water and energy. Within manufacturing firms the term is used to describe the activities of demand forecasting, planning, and order fulfillment. In the environmental context demand management is increasingly taken seriously to reduce the economy's throughput of scarce resources for which market pricing does not reflect true costs. Examples include metering of municipal water, and carbon taxes on gasoline.\n\nDemand management in economics focuses on the optimal allocation resources to affect social welfare.\n\nWelfare economics uses the perspective and techniques of microeconomics, but they can be aggregated to make macroeconomic conclusions. Because different \"optimal\" states may exist in an economy in terms of the allocation of resources, welfare economics seeks the state that will create the highest overall level of social welfare.\n\nSome people object to the idea of wealth redistribution because it flies in the face of pure capitalist ideals, but economists suggest that greater states of overall social good might be achieved by redistributing incomes in the economy.\n\nBecause welfare economics follows the techniques of microeconomics, where demand planning is part of the process especially the redistribution of the funds through government taxes, fees and royalties to programs for societal good, such as roads, services, income support and agriculture support programs.\n\nDemand management is both a stand-alone process and one that is integrated into Sales and Operations Planning (S&OP) or Integrated Business Planning (IBP). The definition of the process and components covered in this section describe the current best practices encompassing the methods and competencies that have a track record of success with leading companies today. Much effort is put into more esoteric financial or academic approaches; however their practical value is limited by the ability of business practitioners to use on a regular basis. As those methods become more accessible and part of regular use they join the best practices, \"predictive forecasting\" covered in this section is a great example.\n\nDemand management in its most effective form has a broad definition well beyond just developing a \"forecast\" based on history supplemented by \"market\" or customer intelligence, and often left to the supply chain organization to interpret. Philip Kotler, a noted expert and professor of marketing management notes two key points: 1. Demand management is the responsibility of the marketing organization (in his definition sales is subset of marketing); 2. The demand \"forecast\" is the result of planned marketing efforts. Those planned efforts, not only should focus on stimulating demand, more importantly influencing demand so that a company's [business'] objectives are achieved.\n\nThe components of effective demand management, identified by George Palmatier and Colleen Crum, are: 1. Planning Demand; 2. Communicating Demand; 3. Influencing Demand and 4. Prioritizing Demand.\n\nDemand Control is a principle of the overarching Demand Management process found in most manufacturing businesses. Demand Control focuses on alignment of supply and demand when there is a sudden, unexpected shift in the demand plan. The shifts can occur when near-term demand becomes greater than supply, or when actual orders are less than the established demand plan. The result can lead to reactive decisions, which can have a negative impact of workloads, costs, and customer satisfaction.\n\nDemand Control creates synchronization across the sales, demand planning, and supply planning functions. Unlike typical monthly demand or supply planning reviews, Demand Control reviews occur at more frequent intervals - daily or weekly - which allows the organization to respond quickly and proactively to possible demand or supply imbalances.\n\nThe Demand Control process requires that all functions agree on time fences within the planning horizon, which should be no less than a rolling 24 months based on Integrated Business Planning best practices. A time fence is a decision point within a manufacturer's planning horizon. Typically, three established time fences exist within a company:\n\nA Demand Controller is established when a company implements a Demand Control process. Unlike a Demand Planner who focuses on long-term order management, the Demand Controller is responsible for short-term order management, focusing specifically when demand exceeds supply or demand appears to be less than planned, and engages sales management in both situations. The Demand Controller works across multiple functions involved in the supply and demand processes, including demand planning, supply planning, sales, and marketing.\n\nPlanning demand involves a full multiple-view process or work flow; including statistical forecast as a baseline from clean \"demand history\" [not shipments], using the most effective statistical models. Kai Trepte developed the Microsoft Excel add-in \"Forecast X\" to provide practitioners with a workstation capability to assess the best matches between data and forecast models. Increasingly \"predictive forecasts\" have moved from a limited use to becoming best practice for more companies. Predictive forecasts use simulation of potential future outcomes and their probabilities rather than history to form the basis for long range (5-10+ years) demand plans. Baseline forecasts are typically developed by demand planners and analysts, who may be regional or centrally located. They work under the guidance of the demand manager. Baseline forecasts are communicated to members of the demand management team. This usually includes regional sales leaders, market managers, and product managers. The team may include customer service leads who manager orders under service agreements with customers and have direct insight into customer demand. For major retailers this is often point of sale data provided to suppliers.\n\nIT / IS demand managers seek to understand in advance how to best meet the needs and expectations of customers, clients, partners, and enablers. Thus, proper forecast and sizing of demand is required in order to deliver a stable and effective technology environment.\n\n"}
{"id": "13125784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13125784", "title": "Differdange communal council", "text": "Differdange communal council\n\nDifferdange communal council () is the local council for the commune of Differdange, in south-western Luxembourg.\n\nIt consists of seventeen members, elected every six years by proportional representation. The last elections were held on 9 October 2005, and resulted in a victory for the Democratic Party (DP). In the \"collège échevinal\", the DP forms a coalition with The Greens, who have the fourth-largest contingent, under the leadership of DP mayor Claude Meisch.\n\n"}
{"id": "3044807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3044807", "title": "E350 (food additive)", "text": "E350 (food additive)\n\nE350 is an EU recognised food additive. It comes in two forms,\n\nSodium malate is a sodium salt of malic acid (E296), a natural acid present in fruit, its alate is used as a buffer and flavouring in soft drinks, confectionery and other foods. The D,L - and D-isomers are not allowed for infants - who lack the enzymes to metabolise these compounds.\n"}
{"id": "42742199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42742199", "title": "Ecological-evolutionary theory", "text": "Ecological-evolutionary theory\n\nEcological-evolutionary theory (EET) is a sociological theory of sociocultural evolution that attempts to explain the origin and changes of society and culture. Key elements focus on the importance of natural environment and technological change. EET has been described as a theory of social stratification, as it analyzes how stratification has changed through time across different societies. It also has been viewed as a synthesis of the structural functionalism and conflict theory. Proposed by Gerhard Lenski, the theory perhaps is best articulated in his book, \"Ecological-Evolutionary Theory: Principles and Applications\" (2005).\nHis major collaborators, Jean Lenski and Patrick Nolan, also are said to have contributed to EET.\n\nLenski notes that society and culture evolve through symbols, which makes this process much more rapid, deliberative, and purposeful, compared to biological evolution. However, just like in the biological survival of the fittest, in sociocultural evolution there is a process of intersocietal selection, where less fit sociocultural systems became extinct, replaced by more efficient ones. In another analogy to biological evolution, Lenski argues that the sociocultural systems that survive do so primarily on the virtue of their level of technological advancement, which otherwise is \"blind and purposeless as the outcome of the biological process of natural selection and just as indifferent to humans beliefs and values\". Thus, Lenski does not argue that societies that survive are morally superior to those that are defeated—simply that they were more efficient at technological progress. This, in turn, helps those societies survive and grow. Technologies can thus be compared to genes of a society, providing it with new abilities, as new technologies allow it to do things that it could not have done before.\n\nTechnology is a factor whose importance Lenski stresses above all others, and he differentiates societies by their technology level, into hunter gatherers, simple and complex horticulture, agrarian societies and industrial societies. At the same time, characteristics of a society go beyond technology, into its demographic and genetic characteristics; culture, including material; social organization and institutions. Natural environment also plays a role, as does geographical location in general; as isolated societies have less chance to benefit from interaction with others.\n\nLenski's theory focus on material infrastructure of societies (growth in population and economic relations), and as such has been described as materialist. It builds on classic theories of Thomas Malthus and Herbert Spencer in seeing society and culture a products of nature (human beings), thus subject to natural law. Lenski argues that humans often act against the interests of the society, which he attributes to self-interest and individualism, themselves products of differing life experiences. He notes that different societies survive thanks to their subsistence strategies, which allow them to draw resources (energy) from the environment; those strategies are determined by technologies possessed by those societies, itself significantly determined by demography (population and its growth) and economy systems (division of labor). Technology, defined by him as \"information about the ways in which resources in the environment may be used to satisfy human needs and desires,\" is the most important element of the sociocultural system.\n\nLenski further argues that sociocultural change is an effect of either interaction with a different society and culture, or a result of environment change (from natural ones, like ice ages, to man-made ones, like resource depletion). Humans primary way of dealing with changing environment is a self-reinforcing development of technology, through innovation is in general less common than copying solutions invented by others (cultural diffusion).\n\nAll societies share two partially competing goals: maximization of production and minimizing of political change (maintenance of powers by the elites). The higher the social stratification, the more dominant the second goal is. Lenski theory can be thus used to analyze the changes of social inequality. Lenski notes that some level of social inequality is expected in all societies, as it is related to differences in abilities of individuals and the tasks they chose to perform for the society; but he also observes that inequality in all societies has always been higher than ideal, as elites usually try to preserve their dominant status. Lenski argues that inequality reached its peak levels in agrarian societies or industrial ones, and have been slowly declining since.\n\nLenski observes that the forces of technological change (innovation) are in constant conflict with forces of continuity and stability, such as traditions, conservatism, opposition of vested interests to disruptive technologies, and general tendency of humans to resist change. He concludes, however, that usually technological progress overcomes any obstacles, forcing sociocultural systems to change. Lenski also observes that technological change accelerates over time.\n\nThe theory has been praised as \"a synthesis of key insights of the founders of sociology and of contemporary macrosociology and anthropology\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46346968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46346968", "title": "Ed Miliband bacon sandwich photograph", "text": "Ed Miliband bacon sandwich photograph\n\nA photograph of the then-Labour Party leader Ed Miliband eating a bacon sandwich was the source of sustained commentary in 2014 and 2015. Taken for the \"Evening Standard\" newspaper while Miliband was campaigning for local elections in May 2014, it was said by some to make him look awkward, error prone or incapable of performing simple tasks. It sparked several internet memes, both supportive and mocking, and fuelled a debate about the lengths to which politicians attempt to control their public image. Miliband dismissed the debate, arguing it was unimportant, and others, including opponents, described the media focus on it as unfair or part of a wider negative personality-based media campaign. The photo was used in a mocking front page of \"\"The Sun\"\", the UK's most widely read newspaper, on the day before the 2015 general election.\n\nEd Miliband was elected as Leader of the Labour Party in September 2010 following Labour's defeat at the 2010 general election after thirteen years in government. As Leader of the Opposition, he was tasked with holding the government to account until such time as he could contest the next general election, which was eventually held in May 2015. Following the results of the election, Miliband resigned as Leader of the Labour Party after nearly five years. For the first time since the Second World War, the government formed in May 2010 was a coalition, led by the new Prime Minister David Cameron of the Conservative Party, with Nick Clegg, leader of the Liberal Democrats, becoming Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nThe photograph was taken on 21 May 2014 by Jeremy Selwyn in London for the \"Evening Standard\" newspaper, during the first stop of Miliband's two-day campaign tour ahead of local and European elections. Arriving at New Covent Garden Market at 6.30am for a planned visit to promote his policies for small businesses, Miliband visited a cafe where the bacon sandwich was consumed.\n\nThe \"Standard\" published the photographs as part of a gallery of 13, titled \"Ed Miliband's Bacon Sandwich\", above a story by political editor Joe Murphy, headlined \"Ed Miliband's battle with a bacon sandwich as he buys flowers for his wife at London market\". Referencing the incident, Murphy's story began: \nDefending the photographs in December 2014, Selwyn said it was an unplanned shot, and that all politicians are \"fair game\" despite their press officers' strict controls on photography.\n\nAccording to the tabloid newspaper \"The Daily Mirror\" writing two days after the event, the photograph of Miliband \"struggling\" to eat the bacon sandwich had immediately generated mockery and claimed it had made him \"look a fool\". In the ensuing week it became an Internet meme, with online users transposing it onto well-known images from history and popular culture, such as the Last Supper and \"When Harry Met Sally\", under the hashtag #EdEats. Publishing a selection of the parodies, \"The Daily Telegraph\" interpreted the incident as a backfired attempt by the Labour leader to look normal, claiming it was his awkward expression which sparked the parodies.\n\nOn 19 May 2014, Deputy Prime Minister and Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg was challenged by LBC host Nick Ferrari to eat a bacon sandwich live on air. Clegg expressed empathy with Miliband, saying:\n\"The Independent\" wrote on 21 May 2014 that \"despite extensive stage-managing and with a seemingly simple task at hand, the Labour leader still struggled in his bid to look normal and back in touch with the general public\", linking it to slip-ups which he had made in recent interviews.\n\nMiliband reacted to the photograph on 25 July 2014 in a speech to party members, saying:\nIn October 2014, UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage made headlines for eating a bacon sandwich while campaigning before the Heywood and Middleton by-election.\n\nIn November 2014, \"The Independent\" writer Boyd Tonkin attempted to link the media narrative around the photograph to antisemitism, stating that \"His clumsy aversion to pork products betrays him as an alien, a member of some foreign tribe\" while the media reported that Farage ate his sandwich better because \"Nige is authentically one of us\".\n\nIb 6 May 2015, Keith Kahn-Harris wrote in \"The Guardian\" \"contemporary antisemitism is often strange and difficult to pin down, often disappearing into a miasma of claims and counter-claims. This is yet another example.\"\n\nWriting on 13 March 2015 in \"The Guardian\", Labour activist Owen Jones said the popularity of the photograph was part of a right-wing media campaign against Miliband, writing that \"The media have a wider narrative about Ed Miliband: sad pathetic geeky loser who cannot even eat a bacon sandwich with any dignity. You can easily select photographs to make any politician look undignified, or generally reinforce whatever narrative you have selected\". In April 2018, Jones referred to the incident as \"antisemitic dog-whistles\".\n\nIn April 2017, Miliband appeared on \"The Last Leg\" and was photographed with another bacon sandwich, while sitting on a motorbike in a leather jacket. The show's host, Adam Hills, said that this was because they needed \"to create an alternative photo of Ed with a bacon sandwich and we need to get it trending [on Twitter]\".\n\nParliament dissolved on 30 March, marking the official start of the campaign period for the 2015 general election, with polling day being on 7 May.\n\nOn 7 April 2015, Prime Minister David Cameron ate a hot dog with a knife and fork. Although members of the public deemed him \"posh\" for doing this, \"The Independent\" offered the alternative suggestion that Cameron's campaign team were aiming for him to avoid looking like Miliband, which \"may have been stage managed one step too far\".\n\nThe day before polling day, the tabloid newspaper \"The Sun\" used the full photo on its front page, partially super-imposed with the headline \"Save Our Bacon\", with bylines reading \"This is the pig's ear Ed made of a helpless sarnie. In 48 hours, he could be doing the same to Britain\" above, and \"Don't swallow his porkies and keep him out\". This was interpreted by \"The Independent\" as a front page \"entirely dedicated to mocking the Labour leader over the infamous incident.\" It sparked another Twitter trend in a show of support for the Labour leader, with users sharing photos of themselves eating bacon sandwiches and other food in a deliberately messy fashion, with the hashtag #JeSuisEd, a reference to Je Suis Charlie.\n\nDuring the 2017 UK general election campaign, a picture of Theresa May eating chips was compared to the photo of Miliband eating the sandwich, to which Miliband tweeted to May, \"we should talk...\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2698881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2698881", "title": "Embassy of Ethiopia, Washington, D.C.", "text": "Embassy of Ethiopia, Washington, D.C.\n\nThe Embassy of Ethiopia in Washington, D.C. is the main diplomatic mission of Ethiopia to the United States. The chancery is located at 3506 International Drive Northwest, Washington, D.C., in the Cleveland Park neighborhood. Ethiopia additionally maintains a Consulate-General in Los Angeles.\n\nThe Ambassador of Ethiopia to the United States is Kassa Tekleberhan.\n\n\nאאײײױװ\n"}
{"id": "14772332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14772332", "title": "End-user certificate", "text": "End-user certificate\n\nAn End-user certificate, or EUC, is a document used in international transfers, including sales and arms provided as aid, of weapons and ammunition to certify that the buyer is the final recipient of the materials, and is not planning on transferring the materials to another party. EUCs are required by many governments to restrict the flow of the materials to undesired destinations, such as embargoed states or rebel groups, governments with bad human rights records or states which are considered a threat by the original supplier of the arms.\n\nThere are several problems with EUCs as a means to prevent undesirable arms exports. EUCs can be forged or falsified; they can also be obtained from corrupt officials, therefore there is a need for EUCs that are difficult to forge. Another problem is that an EUC does not guarantee that the arms recipient will actually live up to its promise not to re-transfer the weapons received. EUCs which are not backed up by proper end-use monitoring are weak. \n\nIn 1936-1938, German arms were supplied to both sides in the Spanish Civil War via Greece using Greek then Mexican end-user certificates, see Pyrkal.\n"}
{"id": "172732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172732", "title": "Glycerol", "text": "Glycerol\n\nGlycerol (; also called glycerine or glycerin; see spelling differences) is a simple polyol compound. It is a colorless, odorless, viscous liquid that is sweet-tasting and non-toxic. The glycerol backbone is found in all lipids known as triglycerides. It is widely used in the food industry as a sweetener and humectant and in pharmaceutical formulations. Glycerol has three hydroxyl groups that are responsible for its solubility in water and its hygroscopic nature.\n\nAlthough achiral, glycerol is prochiral with respect to reactions of one of the two primary alcohols. Thus, in substituted derivatives, the stereospecific numbering labels each carbon as either sn-1, sn-2, or sn-3.\n\nGlycerol is generally obtained from plant and animal sources where it occurs as triglycerides. Triglycerides are esters of glycerol with long-chain carboxylic acids. The hydrolysis, saponification, or transesterification of these triglycerides produces glycerol as well as the fatty acid derivative:\n\nTriglycerides can be saponified with sodium hydroxide to give glycerol and fatty sodium salt or soap.\n\nTypical plant sources include soybeans or palm. Animal-derived tallow is another source. Approximately 950,000 tons per year are produced in the United States and Europe; 350,000 tons of glycerol were produced per year in the United States alone from 2000 to 2004. The EU directive 2003/30/EC set a requirement that 5.75% of petroleum fuels are to be replaced with biofuel sources across all member states by 2010. It was projected in 2006 that by the year 2020, production would be six times more than demand, creating an excess of glycerol.\n\nGlycerol from triglycerides is produced on a large scale, but the crude product is of variable quality, with a low selling price of as low as 2-5 U.S. cents per kilogram in 2011. It can be purified, but the process is expensive. Some glycerol is burned for energy, but its heat value is low.\n\nCrude glycerol from the hydrolysis of triglycerides can be purified by treatment with activated carbon to remove organic impurities, alkali to remove unreacted glycerol esters, and ion exchange to remove salts. High purity glycerol (> 99.5%) is obtained by multi-step distillation; vacuum is helpful due to the high boiling point of glycerol (290 °C).\n\nAlthough usually not cost-effective, glycerol can be produced by various routes from propylene. The epichlorohydrin process is the most important; it involves the chlorination of propylene to give allyl chloride, which is oxidized with hypochlorite to dichlorohydrins, which reacts with a strong base to give epichlorohydrin. This epichlorohydrin is then hydrolyzed to give glycerol. Chlorine-free processes from propylene include the synthesis of glycerol from acrolein and propylene oxide.\n\nBecause of the large-scale production of biodiesel from fats, where glycerol is a waste product, the market for glycerol is depressed. Thus, synthetic processes are not economical. Owing to oversupply, efforts are being made to convert glycerol to synthetic precursors, such as acrolein and epichlorohydrin. (See the Chemical intermediate section of this article.\n\nIn food and beverages, glycerol serves as a humectant, solvent, and sweetener, and may help preserve foods. It is also used as filler in commercially prepared low-fat foods (e.g., cookies), and as a thickening agent in liqueurs. Glycerol and water are used to preserve certain types of plant leaves. As a sugar substitute, it has approximately 27 kilocalories per teaspoon (sugar has 20) and is 60% as sweet as sucrose. It does not feed the bacteria that form plaques and cause dental cavities. As a food additive, glycerol is labeled as E number E422. It is added to icing (frosting) to prevent it from setting too hard.\n\nAs used in foods, glycerol is categorized by the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics as a carbohydrate. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) carbohydrate designation includes all caloric macronutrients excluding protein and fat. Glycerol has a caloric density similar to table sugar, but a lower glycemic index and different metabolic pathway within the body, so some dietary advocates accept glycerol as a sweetener compatible with low-carbohydrate diets. \n\nIt is also recommended as an additive when using polyol sweeteners such as erythritol and xylitol which have a cooling effect, due to its heating effect in the mouth, if the cooling effect is not wanted.\n\nGlycerol is used in medical, pharmaceutical and personal care preparations, often as a means of improving smoothness, providing lubrication, and as a humectant. Ichthyosis and xerosis have been relieved by the topical use glycerin. It is found in allergen immunotherapies, cough syrups, elixirs and expectorants, toothpaste, mouthwashes, skin care products, shaving cream, hair care products, soaps, and water-based personal lubricants. In solid dosage forms like tablets, glycerol is used as a tablet holding agent. For human consumption, glycerol is classified by the U.S. FDA among the sugar alcohols as a caloric macronutrient. Glycerol is also used in blood banking to preserve red blood cells prior to freezing.\n\nGlycerol is a component of glycerin soap. Essential oils are added for fragrance. This kind of soap is used by people with sensitive, easily irritated skin because it prevents skin dryness with its moisturizing properties. It draws moisture up through skin layers and slows or prevents excessive drying and evaporation.\n\nGlycerol can be used as a laxative when introduced into the rectum in suppository or small-volume (2–10 ml) enema form; it irritates the anal mucosa and induces a hyperosmotic effect.\n\nTaken orally (often mixed with fruit juice to reduce its sweet taste), glycerol can cause a rapid, temporary decrease in the internal pressure of the eye. This can be useful for the initial emergency treatment of severely elevated eye pressure.\n\nWhen utilized in \"tincture\" method extractions, specifically as a 10% solution, glycerol prevents tannins from precipitating in ethanol extracts of plants (tinctures). It is also used as an \"alcohol-free\" alternative to ethanol as a solvent in preparing herbal extractions. It is less extractive when utilized in a standard tincture methodology. Alcohol-based tinctures can also have the alcohol removed and replaced with glycerol for its preserving properties. Such products are not \"alcohol-free\" in a scientific sense, as glycerol contains three hydroxyl groups. Fluid extract manufacturers often extract herbs in hot water before adding glycerol to make glycerites.\n\nWhen used as a primary \"true\" alcohol-free botanical extraction solvent in non-tincture based methodologies, glycerol has been shown to possess a high degree of extractive versatility for botanicals including removal of numerous constituents and complex compounds, with an extractive power that can rival that of alcohol and water–alcohol solutions. That glycerol possesses such high extractive power assumes it is utilized with dynamic methodologies as opposed to standard passive \"tincturing\" methodologies that are better suited to alcohol. Glycerol possesses the intrinsic property of not denaturing or rendering a botanical's constituents inert (as alcohols – i.e. ethyl (grain) alcohol, methyl (wood) alcohol, etc., do). Glycerol is a stable preserving agent for botanical extracts that, when utilized in proper concentrations in an extraction solvent base, does not allow inverting or reduction-oxidation of a finished extract's constituents, even over several years. Both glycerol and ethanol are viable preserving agents. Glycerol is bacteriostatic in its action, and ethanol is bactericidal in its action.\n\nGlycerin, along with propylene glycol, is a common component of e-liquid, a solution used with electronic vaporizers (electronic cigarettes). This glycerol is heated with an atomizer (a heating coil often made of Kanthal wire), producing the aerosol that delivers nicotine to the user.\n\nLike ethylene glycol and propylene glycol, glycerol is a non-ionic kosmotrope that forms strong hydrogen bonds with water molecules, competing with water-water hydrogen bonds. This interaction disrupts the formation of ice. The minimum freezing point temperature is about corresponding to 70% glycerol in water.\n\nGlycerol was historically used as an anti-freeze for automotive applications before being replaced by ethylene glycol, which has a lower freezing point. While the minimum freezing point of a glycerol-water mixture is higher than an ethylene glycol-water mixture, glycerol is not toxic and is being re-examined for use in automotive applications.\n\nIn the laboratory, glycerol is a common component of solvents for enzymatic reagents stored at temperatures below 0 °C due to the depression of the freezing temperature. It is also used as a cryoprotectant where the glycerol is dissolved in water to reduce damage by ice crystals to laboratory organisms that are stored in frozen solutions, such as bacteria, nematodes, and mammalian embryos.\n\nGlycerol is used to produce nitroglycerin, which is an essential ingredient of various explosives such as dynamite, gelignite, and propellants like cordite. Reliance on soap-making to supply co-product glycerol made it difficult to increase production to meet wartime demand. Hence, synthetic glycerol processes were national defense priorities in the days leading up to World War II. Nitroglycerin, also known as glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) is commonly used to relieve \"angina pectoris\", taken in the form of sub-lingual tablets, or as an aerosol spray.\n\nAn oxidation of glycerol affords mesoxalic acid.\n\nGlycerol is used as fill for pressure gauges to damp vibration. External vibrations, from compressors, engines, pumps, etc., produce harmonic vibrations within Bourdon gauges that can cause the needle to move excessively, giving inaccurate readings. The excessive swinging of the needle can also damage internal gears or other components, causing premature wear. Glycerol, when poured into a gauge to replace the air space, reduces the harmonic vibrations that are transmitted to the needle, increasing the lifetime and reliability of the gauge.\n\nGlycerol is used by the film industry when filming scenes involving water to stop areas from drying out too quickly.\n\nGlycerine is used—combined with water (around in a 1:99 proportion)—to create a smooth smoky environment. The solution is vaporized and pushed into the room with a ventilator.\n\nGlycerol can be sometimes used as replacement for water in ultrasonic testing, as it has favourably higher acoustic impedance (2.42MRayl vs 1.483MRayl for water) while being relatively safe, non-toxic, non-corrosive and relatively low cost.\n\nGlycerol is also used to power diesel generators supplying electricity for the FIA Formula E series of electric race cars.\n\nResearch has been conducted to try to make value-added products from glycerol obtained from biodiesel production. Examples (aside from combustion of waster glycerol):\n\nGlycerol is a precursor for synthesis of triacylglycerols and of phospholipids in the liver and adipose tissue. When the body uses stored fat as a source of energy, glycerol and fatty acids are released into the bloodstream. Circulating glycerol does not glycate proteins as do glucose or fructose, and does not lead to the formation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs). In some organisms, the glycerol component can enter the glycolysis pathway directly and, thus, provide energy for cellular metabolism (or, potentially, be converted to glucose through gluconeogenesis).\n\nBefore glycerol can enter the pathway of glycolysis or gluconeogenesis (depending on physiological conditions), it must be converted to their intermediate glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate in the following steps:\n\nThe enzyme glycerol kinase is present mainly in the liver and kidneys, but also in other body tissues, including muscle and brain. In adipose tissue, glycerol 3-phosphate is obtained from dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) with the enzyme glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase.\n\nGlycerol has very low toxicity when ingested; its LD oral dose for rats is 12600 mg/kg and 8700 mg/kg for mice.\n\nOn 4 May 2007, the US Food and Drug Administration advised all US makers of medicines to test all batches of glycerol for the toxic diethylene glycol. This followed an occurrence of hundreds of fatal poisonings in Panama resulting from a falsified import customs declaration by Panamanian import/export firm Aduanas Javier de Gracia Express, S. A. The cheaper diethylene glycol was relabeled as the more expensive glycerol.\n\nThe origin of the gly- and glu- prefixes for glycols and sugars is from Greek γλυκύς \"glukus\" which means sweet.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2865806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2865806", "title": "Great Seal of France", "text": "Great Seal of France\n\nThe Great Seal of France () is the official seal of the French Republic.\n\nThe Great Seal features liberty personified as a seated Goddess of Liberty wearing a crown with seven arches. She holds a fasces and is supported by a ship's tiller with a cock carved or printed on it. At her feet is a vase with the letters \"SU\" (\"Suffrage Universel\", \"Universal suffrage\"). At her right, in the background, are symbols of the arts (painter's tools), architecture (Ionic order), education (burning lamp), agriculture (a sheaf of wheat) and industry (a cog wheel). The scene is surrounded by the legend \"RÉPUBLIQUE FRANÇAISE, DÉMOCRATIQUE, UNE ET INDIVISIBLE\" (\"French Republic, democratic, one and indivisible\") and \"24 FEV.1848\" (24 February 1848) at the bottom.\n\nThe reverse bears the words \"AU NOM DU PEUPLE FRANÇAIS\" (\"in the name of the French people\") surrounded by a crown of oak (symbol of perennity) and laurel (symbol of glory) leaves tied together with wheat and grapes (agriculture and wealth), with the circular national motto \"LIBERTÉ, ÉGALITÉ, FRATERNITÉ\".\nThe first seals were created by the Merovingian kings to authenticate their orders. Merely rings originally, later worn on a necklace, the royal seals grew bigger and bigger under the House of Capet to reach around . These are the modern dimensions of the seal.\n\nAll the seals under the Ancien Régime featured the king sitting on this throne and giving justice, yet every king had his own personal seal, a unique item which passed with him. All edicts, orders, decrees and declarations were then sealed.\nOn August 13, 1792, representatives of the National Convention arrested King Louis XVI. He was imprisoned, and later executed on January 21, 1793. This act of regicide demonstrated that \"the Convention had irreversibly ruled out any compromise with the Revolution's opponents.\" With the absence of the king, the French Republic sought a new national symbol. It was from these tumultuous times that the French symbol of Marianne emerged. The French Revolution not only challenged the political authority of the Old Regime led by the monarchy; it also challenged the traditional symbols that had thus far defined the French people. Anthropologists have argued that every society needs a \"center\" which includes social and political mapping that gives the people a sense of their place. In the traditional model of authority, \"the king was the sacred center and culture was firmly fixed in the longstanding notions of a catholic hierarchical order.\" By de-centering this frame of traditional authority while overthrowing the monarchy, revolutionaries realized that the cultural framework of the past could not be carried into the future, and that the use of the king as the insignia of the seal had to be replaced with a new seal signifying the Republic. Revolutionaries began iconoclastically destroying tangible reminders of the Old Regime, such as breaking the seals of royalty, the scepter and the crown and melting them into republican coins.\n\nThe abolition of royalty, however, led to questions about the importance of having a unified symbol. In the beginning, seals were only used to compensate for the imperfection of writing. Yet as Henri Grégoire argued, civilized people found that \"a sign, a type, was necessary to give character to authenticity\" to all public acts. The nation would only be recognizable by its public symbolic representation, and hence it was agreed that a new seal of state would be created to give the new republic a sense of permanence. The seal was not only a representation of public authority, but it signified the new republican mold. As Lynn Hunt puts it, \"new symbols could make new men.\" The French Revolution stood for the notion that members of a society could invent culture and politics for themselves. As the National Convention worked to unify the Republic after the fall of the monarchy, the process to declare a national symbol became more urgent. In the end, \"the choice of a new insignia seemed almost automatic.\" In order to dispel all traces of monarchical influence, the members of the National Convention \"proposed the choice of Liberty.\" The choice was a clear one and deputies of the Convention like Abbe Grégoire proposed that the Republic's image should be \"Liberty, 'so that our emblem, circulating all over the globe, should present to all peoples the beloved image of Republican liberty and pride.'\" This notion of Liberty is, in a sense, \"the very essence of the Republic.\"\n\nLiberty was officially represented by the female figure of Marianne, which adheres to traditional iconographic expectations. The Phrygian cap worn by this figure of liberty was representative of the inherent freedom of the French people and provided a sharp contrast to the crown of the monarchy. According to Maurice Agulhon, an expert on this particular symbol of the French Revolution, Marianne \"represented both Liberty, an eternal value, and at the same time the newly constituted regime of the French Republic.\" She was depicted as \"a woman holding a stave surmounted by a cap and trampling a yoke underfoot; this is the emblem that the ancients gave to Liberty won through valor.\" The feminine civic allegory of Marianne was distant from the controversial personalities of National Convention; therefore, Marianne's \"abstraction and impersonality\" allowed the symbol to endure the different phases of the Revolution. In addition, Marianne's close resemblance to the Catholic figure of Mary created unity between the rational revolutionaries and the devout peasantry. The emblem of Marianne was not only widely accepted, but also widely diffused in France. However, as the Revolution radicalized in 1793 with the rise of the Committee on Public Safety, the emblem of Marianne was replaced by a far more formidable symbol of the Revolution: Jacques-Louis David's statue of Hercules.\n\nNapoléon, Louis XVIII and Charles X all used monarchical seals like the Old Regime, Louis-Philippe used one showing only his bust.\n\nThe present seal dates back to the Second Republic, which briefly used the seals of the First Republic before having a new design made by the artist Jacques-Jean Barre on the 8 September 1848.\n\nUnder the Second Republic, usage of the Great Seal of France tended to be reduced to sealing laws, decrees of the National Assembly and diplomatic treaties. The function of Keeper of the seals was officially linked to that of Minister of Justice at that time (the French Minister of Justice is popularly referred to \"\").\n\nAfter the Second Empire, the practice of applying seals to laws was gradually abandoned and restricted to constitutional acts and diplomatic treaties (for instance, the Treaty of Versailles was sealed in this way).\n\nUnder the Fourth Republic, the only document to be sealed was the Constitution of October 27, 1946.\n\nSince the Fifth Republic, after sealing the Constitution of October 4, 1958, it became common practice to seal some constitutional modifications. Used in 1946, and twice at the beginning of the Fifth Republic, the sealing ceremonies became much less common from 1963 to 1991 period when only two laws - ordinary, but of great symbolic importance - were sealed. Since 1992, the pace of ceremonies has increased again: the constitutional changes since then were often the subject of a seal.\nThe date of the ceremony was very close to the date of passage of the law until 1964. It was subsequently clearly separated from the vote and publication of the text. An extreme case consists in the Constitutional Law no. 99-569 of July 8, 1999 on equality between women and men, sealed March 8, 2002, two and a half years after the entry into force of the law.\n\nSealing ceremonies are always held at the \"\" where the Keeper of the Seals, the Minister of Justice, holds a sealing press affixed to a best and the unique matrices of the Seal of the State. Since 2017, this role is carried out by Nicole Belloubet.\n\nOriginally, sealers used a plastic sealing wax which they shaped by hand into generally circular pieces which were definitely shaped by a press.\n\nNowadays, a liquid wax is fed directly into the inferior part of a shape made of a stamp and a mobile metallic ring; the shape is closed and the wax cools down until it becomes pasty before it is applied.\n\nUsage of the Great Seal having become obsolete between 1920 and 1946, the recipe for the wax was lost. In 1946, trials had to be made by the Sigillographic service of the National Archives.\n\nThe \"Ancien Régime\" used a green wax for important documents, and a yellow for less important ones.\n\nThe Restoration, the July Monarchy and the Third Republic kept the yellow wax, while the First Republic, the Consulate and the Empire used a red wax.\n\nThe Constitution of 1946 is sealed with red wax. The Constitution of 1958 and subsequent documents were sealed with yellow wax, until 2002 when green was again used.\n\nThe Empire sealed on wide yellow and blue silk ribbons; the Republic and the Consulate, on a tricolor braid.\n\nThe Third Republic used the same red and green ribbon as the Monarchy. Since 1946 (the Fourth and Fifth Republics), a tricolor ribbon is in use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39253005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39253005", "title": "Hanns Martin Schleyer Foundation", "text": "Hanns Martin Schleyer Foundation\n\nThe Hanns Martin Schleyer Foundation (German: \"Hanns Martin Schleyer-Stiftung\") is a German foundation that promotes research in economics, law and cultural sciences. It was established in 1977 by the Confederation of German Employers' Associations (BDA) and the Federation of German Industries (BDI).\n\nThe foundation is located in Cologne, and awards the Friedwart Bruckhaus Prize, the Hanns Martin Schleyer Prize, and the Universitas Prize for Science Journalism.\n\nThe foundation administers the Hanns Martin Schleyer Prize (German: \"Hanns Martin Schleyer-Preis\"), an award established by automobile manufacturer Daimler AG in 1982 in honor of Hanns-Martin Schleyer, a former business executive of the BDA and BDI. Schleyer was kidnapped and murdered by the Red Army Faction (RAF) in 1977 after being targeted by radical elements of the German student movement due to his role in those business organizations and his past activities as a former officer of the Nazi SS. The abduction and murder were part of an RAF campaign known as the German Autumn. According to its administrator, the Prize is given annually for \"outstanding contributions to consolidating and strengthening the foundations of a community based on the principle of individual freedom.\"\n\nThe first of the annual prizes was awarded to economist and Nobel laureate Friedrich Hayek in 1984. In 2013, the Prize was presented to Helmut Maucher, former CEO of Nestlé and an outspoken critic of the German social welfare system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7740798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7740798", "title": "Hawala scandal", "text": "Hawala scandal\n\nThe Hawala scandal, also called the Jain Diaries case or the hawala scam was an Indian political and financial scandal involving payments allegedly sent by politicians (black money) through four hawala brokers, namely the Jain brothers. It was a US$18 million bribery scandal that implicated some of the country's leading politicians. It also led to a fixed tenure of minimum 2 years for CBI Directors, to prevent politicians from interfering with the Director's duties.\n\nIn 1991, an arrest linked to militants in Kashmir led to a raid on hawala brokers, revealing evidence of large-scale payments to national politicians. On 25 March 1991, as per the court proceedings published by the Supreme court of India, Ashfak Hussain Lone, a person alleged to be an official of the terrorist organisation Hizbul Mujahideen, was arrested in Delhi. During his interrogation, the police learnt that his organisation was funded through hawala, using Surendra Kumar Jain and his family as a conduit. Based on this and further information received during Lone's interrogation, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted raids on the premises of Surrender Kumar Jain, his brothers, relations and businesses. During the raids, the CBI seized Indian and foreign currency, two diaries and two note books at the premises. These diaries contained detailed accounts of vast payments made to people identified only by initials. The initials corresponded to the initials of high ranking politicians, both in power and out of power, and of high ranking bureaucrats. At this stage, the investigation stopped at the CBI and neither the Jains, nor the contents of their diaries were investigated by the CBI. Meanwhile, officers of the CBI involved in the investigation were transferred out to other places by orders from ruling politicians. However, the case continued to make headlines in the newspapers media, as it was pursued by a few journalists.\n\nOn 4 October 1993, writ petitions were filed at the Supreme court of India, in the public interest under Article 32 of the Constitution of the India. These contained allegations that Government agencies like the CBI and the revenue authorities had failed to perform their duties and legal obligations as they had \"failed to investigate matters arising out of the seizure of the \"Jan diaries\"; that the apprehension of terrorists had led to the discovery of financial support to them by clandestine and illegal means using tainted funds obtained through `havala' transactions; that this had also disclosed a nexus between politicians, bureaucrats and criminals, who were recipients of money from unlawful sources, given for unlawful consideration that the CBI and other Government agencies had failed to investigate the matter, take it to its logical conclusion and prosecute all persons who were found to have committed and offence; that this was done with a view to protect the persons involved, who were very influential and powerful; that the matter disclosed a nexus between crime and corruption at high places in public life and it posed a serious threat to the integrity, security and economy of the nation; that probity in public life, the rule of law and the preservation of democracy required that the Government agencies the compelled to duly perform their legal obligations and to proceed in accordance with law against every person involved, irrespective of where he was placed in the political hierarchy.\" In India, the Havala method is an illegal method of transacting in foreign currency. It is illegal and contentious due to two reasons. Firstly, it is highly secretive as it does not reveal the identity of people on either side of the transaction, even to the havala operators. Secondly, it violates the FERA regulations of India as it does not use approved channels of regular banks for foreign currency transactions. However, it is often used in India for two reasons. Firstly, to transfer legally earned salaries (example : by ordinary workers overseas in Saudi Arabia and UAE) to their hometowns, as hawala transaction costs are a fraction of banks, and havala operators can be found in the smallest villages of India. Secondly, by politicians, bureaucrats and nefarious elements to transfer corruption money.\n\nThose accused included L. K. Advani, V. C. Shukla, P. Shiv Shankar, Sharad Yadav, Balram Jakhar, and Madan Lal Khurana. The entire list contained politicians from the BJP, Congress and independent MLAs and MPs, with amounts varying between Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 7.5 crore. The prosecution that followed was partly prompted by a public interest petition (see Vineet Narain), and yet the court cases of the Hawala scandal eventually all collapsed without convictions. Many were acquitted in 1997 and 1998, partly because the hawala records (including diaries) were judged in court to be inadequate as the main evidence. The Central Bureau of Investigation's role was criticised. In concluding the Vineet Narain case, the Supreme Court of India directed that the Central Vigilance Commission should be given a supervisory role over the CBI.\n\nThe supreme court proceeding did not relate to the hawala case per se, but rather to the suspicious transfer of the CBI Director Joginder Singh and the rampant misuse of political power to curb the investigations of the CBI and Revenue department. In its judgment, delivered on 18 December 1997, the court, through judges S.P.Bharucha and S.C.Sen gave a ruling consisting of a 26 points list of pronouncements, the most important of which made it impossible for politicians in the government to remove the Director of the CBI for 2 years, thus ensuring that the CBI and its officers would have freedom to carry out their work without political interference.\n\nThe Jain Hawala story was broken by two Delhi-based journalists Ram Bahadur Rai and Rajesh Joshi, working for the Hindi daily Jansatta. Then Vineet Narain, the journalist filed a public interest litigation in the Supreme court of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "2217345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2217345", "title": "Hollywood Congress of Republicans", "text": "Hollywood Congress of Republicans\n\nFounded in 2001, the Hollywood Congress of Republicans (HCR) is a chapter of the California Congress of Republicans, a permanently chartered organization of the California Republican Party.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23961083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23961083", "title": "Ice famine", "text": "Ice famine\n\nAn ice famine was a scarcity of commercial ice, usually during the hot summer months, common before the widespread use of the refrigerator. It often resulted in the widespread spoilage of food and medicines, and in some instances in death from heat stroke.\n\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, ice was at a very high demand in America. A man named Frederic Tudor, dubbed the Ice King, brought forth a whole industry for ice. Ice was a necessity for many businesses who sold food and homes who hoped to preserve their food because the refrigerator and freezer were not yet invented. The people’s only choices were commercial and residential ice boxes that needed to be replenished every time there was a drop in temperature. Tudor saw the importance and the possibly high demand for ice which he immediately capitalized on. He started his work in Massachusetts and expanded his market over time. Once his ice had chilled the drinks and preserved the food of many Americans, it quickly became a highly desired commodity, and this commodity was supplied by ice harvesting which was done on frozen over fields and bodies of water as well as ice factories. The former provided most of the ice for the industry while the latter produced a significantly lesser amount.\n\nThe ice market boomed and ice was being transported from anywhere possible to many cities in the United States. New York City and Chicago were major consumers of American ice because there were higher densities of people and businesses that heavily relied on ice. But many problems arose from the relatively new industry that did not have the best technology to ensure a sufficient supply and that wasted much of the ice during the transportation process. Since the demand for ice was so high in nearly all of the United States, any delay or shortage in supply threatened the people with an ice famine. Some of the main causes of ice famines were unreliable trains as modes of transport, ever increasing prices, and unfavorable weather conditions. Unfortunately, the people who controlled the ice supply in America could not control every variable that helped produce large quantities of ice, so it was never guaranteed that the American demand would be met.\n\nOne of the biggest issues in meeting the demand of ice was the lack of transportation. At this time in America, there was no such thing as refrigerated trucks that could make deliveries via highways. Instead, there was a rail system that ran ice from the mountains to different cities and towns that did not have ice factories, or had ones that could only meet some of the demand. However, these rail systems were also the means of transportation for fruits and vegetables that were not local to a given area. These three goods were all in high demand but train cars could not always be allocated in order to satisfy the demand of all three necessities. When fruits and vegetables were priorities, ice companies would have complications getting an ample amount of ice out for shipment. The inadequate amount of train cars to meet demand was not the only issue with the rail system. The trains were just unreliable as a whole. On July 4, 1894, Ann Arbor Argus reported that Chicago had no more than a day’s worth of ice for the whole city. This normally would not be a problem with a shipment of ice on its way but the train carrying the ice was stuck outside of the city. This posed a problem for everyone in the city because they would not have any immediate means to keep their food or meat in Chicago’s meat packing district cold.\n\nAnother cause, or at least threat, of ice famine was World War One. During the war, the American government needed most of the country’s supply of ammonia. Ammonia was a chemical used in ice factories that helped make the ice and also refrigerated the ice until it was ready for consumption, but Americans' need for ice was considered insignificant when the American Government wanted to go to war. The government ultimately needed the ammonia to provide soldiers with sufficient ammunition to fight the war. Since a majority of the ammonia supply was fueling war efforts, ice factories could not generate nearly enough ice to meet demand. This caused the countryside and cities, especially New York City, to have small quantities of ice and no ice at all in some areas. In order to help the American people out of the ice famine, The Department of Agriculture released plans to the public that described how to make, and effectively use, a homemade refrigeration unit.\n\nIce was not only a vital and competitive industry in the 19th and 20th centuries but it was also a controversial one in New York City. Towards the end of the 19th century, New Yorkers were unhappy with the way that the ice industry was being run. According to Historian Edward T. O’Donnell, skeptical customers accused ice companies of “price gouging and monopolistic practices”. The customers seemed to believe that the companies were purposely creating ice famines so that they could hike the prices. Higher prices left a lot of people without ice which made summer months very tough. The controversy over unethical practices in the ice industry turned out to be true when New York ice companies formed into what was called the Consolidated Ice Company. The Consolidated Ice Company was, by definition, a monopoly that controlled everything about the ice industry in the city that consumed the most ice. They could create an ice famine in whole communities by controlling supply and prices while against few, if any, competitors. Shortly after Consolidated Ice Company became as powerful as it was, information surfaced about a corrupt politician helping the monopoly come to fruition.\nThe worries of ice famines ended in the early 1900s. At this point in time, refrigerators and air conditioners were being introduced to the market. It did not take long for people to move away from ice-reliant storage of all kinds. In 1927, General Electric became the first company to mass-produce refrigerator units that did not need ice. This ultimately ended the ice famines and the lucrativeness of ice.\n"}
{"id": "16545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16545", "title": "James Lovelock", "text": "James Lovelock\n\nJames Ephraim Lovelock, (born 26 July 1919) is an independent scientist, environmentalist, and futurist who lives in Dorset, England. He is best known for proposing the Gaia hypothesis, which postulates that the Earth functions as a self-regulating system.\n\nWith a PhD in medicine, he performed cryopreservation experiments on rodents, including successfully thawing frozen specimens. His methods were influential in the theories of cryonics (the cryopreservation of humans). He invented the electron capture detector, and using it, became the first to detect the widespread presence of CFCs in the atmosphere. While designing scientific instruments for NASA, he developed the Gaia hypothesis. \n\nIn the 2000s, he proposed a method of climate engineering to restore carbon dioxide-consuming algae. He has been an outspoken member of Environmentalists for Nuclear, citing the effects of carbon dioxide as being more harmful to the environment, and warning of global warming due to the greenhouse effect. He has written several environmental science books based upon the Gaia hypothesis since the late 1970s.\n\nJames Lovelock was born in Letchworth Garden City in Hertfordshire, England, to working class parents who were strong believers in education. Nell, his mother, started work at 13 in a pickle factory. His father, Tom, had served six months hard labour for poaching in his teens and was illiterate until attending technical college. The family moved to London, where Lovelock's dislike of authority made him, by his own account, an unhappy pupil at Strand School.\n\nLovelock could not afford to go to university, something which he believes helped prevent him becoming overspecialised and aided the development of Gaia theory. He worked at a photography firm, attending Birkbeck College during the evenings, before being accepted to study chemistry at the University of Manchester, where he was a student of the Nobel Prize laureate Professor Alexander Todd. Lovelock worked at a Quaker farm before a recommendation from his professor led to him taking up a Medical Research Council post, working on ways of shielding soldiers from burns. Lovelock refused to use the shaved and anaesthetised rabbits that were used as burn victims, and exposed his own skin to heat radiation instead, an experience he describes as \"exquisitely painful\". His student status enabled temporary deferment of military service during the Second World War, but he registered as a conscientious objector. He later abandoned his conscientious objection in the light of Nazi atrocities, and tried to enlist in the armed forces, but was told that his medical research was too valuable for the enlistment to be approved.\n\nIn 1948, Lovelock received a PhD degree in medicine at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. He spent the next two decades working at London's National Institute for Medical Research. In the United States, he has conducted research at Yale, Baylor College of Medicine, and Harvard University.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, Lovelock experimented with the cryopreservation of rodents, determining that hamsters could be frozen with 60% of the water in the brain crystallized into ice with no adverse effects recorded. Other organs were shown to be susceptible to damage. The results were influential in the theories of cryonics.\n\nA lifelong inventor, Lovelock has created and developed many scientific instruments, some of which were designed for NASA in its planetary exploration program. It was while working as a consultant for NASA that Lovelock developed the Gaia hypothesis, for which he is most widely known.\n\nIn early 1961, Lovelock was engaged by NASA to develop sensitive instruments for the analysis of extraterrestrial atmospheres and planetary surfaces. The Viking program, which visited Mars in the late 1970s, was motivated in part to determine whether Mars supported life, and many of the sensors and experiments that were ultimately deployed aimed to resolve this issue. During work on a precursor of this program, Lovelock became interested in the composition of the Martian atmosphere, reasoning that many life forms on Mars would be obliged to make use of it (and, thus, alter it). However, the atmosphere was found to be in a stable condition close to its chemical equilibrium, with very little oxygen, methane, or hydrogen, but with an overwhelming abundance of carbon dioxide. To Lovelock, the stark contrast between the Martian atmosphere and chemically dynamic mixture of the Earth's biosphere was strongly indicative of the absence of life on Mars. However, when they were finally launched to Mars, the Viking probes still searched (unsuccessfully) for extant life there.\n\nLovelock had invented the electron capture detector, which ultimately assisted in discoveries about the persistence of CFCs and their role in stratospheric ozone depletion. After studying the operation of the Earth's sulphur cycle, Lovelock and his colleagues, Robert Jay Charlson, Meinrat Andreae and Stephen G. Warren developed the CLAW hypothesis as a possible example of biological control of the Earth's climate.\n\nLovelock was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1974. He served as the president of the Marine Biological Association (MBA) from 1986 to 1990, and has been an Honorary Visiting Fellow of Green Templeton College, Oxford (formerly Green College, Oxford) since 1994.\n\nAs an independent scientist, inventor, and author, Lovelock worked out of a barn-turned-laboratory he called his \"experimental station\" located in a wooded valley on the Devon/Cornwall border in the South West England.\n\nOn 8 May 2012, he appeared on the Radio Four series \"The Life Scientific\", talking to Jim al-Khalili about the Gaia hypothesis. On the program, he mentioned how his ideas had been received by various people, including Jonathan Porritt. He also mentioned how he had a claim for inventing the microwave oven. He later explained this claim in an interview with \"The Manchester Magazine\". Lovelock said that he did create an instrument during his time studying causes of damage to living cells and tissue, which had, according to him, \"almost everything you would expect in an ordinary microwave oven\". He invented the instrument for the purpose of heating up frozen hamsters in a way that caused less suffering to the animals, as opposed to the traditional way which involved putting red hot spoons on the animals' chest to heat them up. He believes that at the time, nobody had gone that far and made an embodiment of an actual microwave oven. However, he does not claim to have been the first person to have the idea of using microwaves for cooking.\n\nAfter the development of his electron capture detector, in the late 1960s, Lovelock was the first to detect the widespread presence of CFCs in the atmosphere. He found a concentration of 60 parts per trillion of CFC-11 over Ireland and, in a partially self-funded research expedition in 1972, went on to measure the concentration of CFC-11 from the northern hemisphere to the Antarctic aboard the research vessel RRS \"Shackleton\". He found the gas in each of the 50 air samples that he collected but, not realising that the breakdown of CFCs in the stratosphere would release chlorine that posed a threat to the ozone layer, concluded that the level of CFCs constituted \"no conceivable hazard\". He has since stated that he meant \"no conceivable toxic hazard\".\n\nHowever, the experiment did provide the first useful data on the ubiquitous presence of CFCs in the atmosphere. The damage caused to the ozone layer by the photolysis of CFCs was later discovered by Sherwood Rowland and Mario Molina. After hearing a lecture on the subject of Lovelock's results, Sherwood and Molina embarked on research that resulted in the first published paper that suggested a link between stratospheric CFCs and ozone depletion in 1974 (for which they later shared the 1995 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Paul Crutzen).\n\nFirst formulated by Lovelock during the 1960s as a result of work for NASA concerned with detecting life on Mars, the Gaia hypothesis proposes that living and non-living parts of the Earth form a complex interacting system that can be thought of as a single organism. Named after the Greek goddess Gaia at the suggestion of novelist William Golding, the hypothesis postulates that the biosphere has a regulatory effect on the Earth's environment that acts to sustain life.\n\nWhile the Gaia hypothesis was readily accepted by many in the environmentalist community, it has not been widely accepted within the scientific community. Among its most prominent critics are the evolutionary biologists Richard Dawkins, Ford Doolittle, and Stephen Jay Gould, a convergence of opinion among a trio whose views on other scientific matters often diverge. These (and other) critics have questioned how natural selection operating on individual organisms can lead to the evolution of planetary-scale homeostasis.\n\nIn response to this Lovelock, together with Andrew Watson, published the computer model Daisyworld in 1983, that postulated a hypothetical planet orbiting a star whose radiant energy is slowly increasing or decreasing. In the non-biological case, the temperature of this planet simply tracks the energy received from the star. However, in the biological case, ecological competition between \"daisy\" species with different albedo values produces a homeostatic effect on global temperature. When energy received from the star is low, black daisies proliferate since they absorb a greater fraction of the heat, but when energy input is high, white daisies predominate since they reflect excess heat. As the white and black daisies have contrary effects on the planet's overall albedo and temperature, changes in their relative populations stabilise the planet's climate and to keep temperature within an optimal range despite fluctuations in energy from the star. Lovelock argued that Daisyworld, although a parable, illustrates how conventional natural selection operating on individual organisms can still produce planetary-scale homeostasis.\n\nIn Lovelock's 2006 book, \"The Revenge of Gaia\", he argues that the lack of respect humans have had for Gaia, through the damage done to rainforests and the reduction in planetary biodiversity, is testing Gaia's capacity to minimize the effects of the addition of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. This eliminates the planet's negative feedbacks and increases the likelihood of homeostatic positive feedback potential associated with runaway global warming. Similarly the warming of the oceans is extending the oceanic thermocline layer of tropical oceans into the Arctic and Antarctic waters, preventing the rise of oceanic nutrients into the surface waters and eliminating the algal blooms of phytoplankton on which oceanic food chains depend. As phytoplankton and forests are the main ways in which Gaia draws down greenhouse gases, particularly carbon dioxide, taking it out of the atmosphere, the elimination of this environmental buffering will see, according to Lovelock, most of the earth becoming uninhabitable for humans and other life-forms by the middle of this century, with a massive extension of tropical deserts. (In 2012, Lovelock distanced himself from these conclusions, saying he had \"gone too far\" in describing the consequences of climate change over the next century in this book.)\n\nIn his 2009 book, \"The Vanishing Face of Gaia\", he rejects scientific modelling that disagrees with the scientific findings that sea levels are rising faster, and Arctic ice is melting faster, than the models predict and he suggests that we may already be beyond the tipping point of terrestrial climate resilience into a permanently hot state. Given these conditions, Lovelock expects human civilization will be hard pressed to survive. He expects the change to be similar to the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum when atmospheric concentration of CO was 450 ppm. At that point the Arctic Ocean was 23 °C and had crocodiles in it, with the rest of the world mostly scrub and desert.\n\nLovelock has become concerned about the threat of global warming from the greenhouse effect. In 2004 he caused a media sensation when he broke with many fellow environmentalists by pronouncing that \"only nuclear power can now halt global warming\". In his view, nuclear energy is the only realistic alternative to fossil fuels that has the capacity to both fulfill the large scale energy needs of humankind while also reducing greenhouse emissions. He is an open member of Environmentalists for Nuclear Energy.\n\nIn 2005, against the backdrop of renewed UK government interest in nuclear power, Lovelock again publicly announced his support for nuclear energy, stating, \"I am a Green, and I entreat my friends in the movement to drop their wrongheaded objection to nuclear energy\". Although these interventions in the public debate on nuclear power are recent, his views on it are longstanding. In his 1988 book \"The Ages of Gaia\" he states: \"I have never regarded nuclear radiation or nuclear power as anything other than a normal and inevitable part of the environment. Our prokaryotic forebears evolved on a planet-sized lump of fallout from a star-sized nuclear explosion, a supernova that synthesised the elements that go to make our planet and ourselves.\"\n\nIn \"The Revenge of Gaia\" (2006), where he puts forward the concept of sustainable retreat, Lovelock writes:\"A television interviewer once asked me, 'But what about nuclear waste? Will it not poison the whole biosphere and persist for millions of years?' I knew this to be a nightmare fantasy wholly without substance in the real world... One of the striking things about places heavily contaminated by radioactive nuclides is the richness of their wildlife. This is true of the land around Chernobyl, the bomb test sites of the Pacific, and areas near the United States' Savannah River nuclear weapons plant of the Second World War. Wild plants and animals do not perceive radiation as dangerous, and any slight reduction it may cause in their lifespans is far less a hazard than is the presence of people and their pets... I find it sad, but all too human, that there are vast bureaucracies concerned about nuclear waste, huge organisations devoted to decommissioning power stations, but nothing comparable to deal with that truly malign waste, carbon dioxide.\"\n\nWriting in the British newspaper \"The Independent\" in January 2006, Lovelock argued that, as a result of global warming, \"billions of us will die and the few breeding pairs of people that survive will be in the Arctic where the climate remains tolerable\" by the end of the 21st century. He has been quoted in \"The Guardian\" that 80% of humans will perish by 2100 AD, and this climate change will last 100,000 years. According to James Lovelock, by 2040, the world population of more than six billion will have been culled by floods, drought and famine. Indeed, \"[t]he people of Southern Europe, as well as South-East Asia, will be fighting their way into countries such as Canada, Australia and Britain\".\n\nHe further predicted, the average temperature in temperate regions would increase by as much as 8 °C and by up to 5 °C in the tropics, leaving much of the world's land uninhabitable and unsuitable for farming, with northerly migrations and new cities created in the Arctic. He predicted much of Europe will have become uninhabitable having turned to desert and Britain will have become Europe's \"life-raft\" due to its stable temperature caused by being surrounded by the ocean. He suggested that \"we have to keep in mind the awesome pace of change and realise how little time is left to act, and then each community and nation must find the best use of the resources they have to sustain civilisation for as long as they can\".\n\nHe partly retreated from this position in a September 2007 address to the World Nuclear Association's Annual Symposium, suggesting that climate change would stabilise and prove survivable, and that the Earth itself is in \"no danger\" because it would stabilise in a new state. Life, however, might be forced to migrate \"en masse\" to remain in habitable climes. In 2009, he became a patron of Population Matters (formerly known as the Optimum Population Trust), which campaigns for a gradual decline in the global human population to a sustainable level.\n\nIn a March 2010 interview with \"The Guardian\" newspaper, he said that democracy might have to be \"put on hold\" to prevent climate change. He continued:\n\nStatements from 2012 portray Lovelock as continuing his concern over global warming while at the same time criticizing extremism and suggesting alternatives to oil, coal and the green solutions he does not support.\n\nIn an April 2012 interview, aired on MSNBC, Lovelock stated that he had been \"alarmist\", using the words \"All right, I made a mistake,\" about the timing of climate change and noted the documentary \"An Inconvenient Truth\" and the book \"The Weather Makers\" as examples of the same kind of alarmism. Lovelock still believes the climate to be warming although the rate of change is not as he once thought, he admitted that he had been \"extrapolating too far.\" He believes that climate change is still happening, but it will be felt farther in the future. Of the claims \"the science is settled\" on global warming he states: He criticizes environmentalists for treating global warming like a religion. \nIn the MSNBC article Lovelock is quoted as proclaiming: In a follow up interview Lovelock stated his support for natural gas; he now favors fracking as a low-polluting alternative to coal. He opposes the concept of \"sustainable development\", where modern economies might be powered by wind turbines, calling it meaningless drivel. He keeps a poster of a wind turbine to remind himself how much he detests them.\n\nIn September 2007, Lovelock and Chris Rapley proposed the construction of ocean pumps to pump water up from below the thermocline to \"fertilize algae in the surface waters and encourage them to bloom\". The basic idea was to accelerate the transfer of carbon dioxide from the atmosphere to the ocean by increasing primary production and enhancing the export of organic carbon (as marine snow) to the deep ocean. A scheme similar to that proposed by Lovelock and Rapley is already being independently developed by a commercial company.\n\nThe proposal attracted widespread media attention and criticism. Commenting on the proposal, Corinne Le Quéré, a University of East Anglia researcher, said \"It doesn’t make sense. There is absolutely no evidence that climate engineering options work or even go in the right direction. I’m astonished that they published this. Before any geoengineering is put to work a massive amount of research is needed – research which will take 20 to 30 years\". Other researchers have claimed that \"this scheme would bring water with high natural \"p\"CO levels (associated with the nutrients) back to the surface, potentially causing exhalation of CO\". Lovelock subsequently said that his proposal was intended to stimulate interest and research would be the next step.\n\nSustainable retreat is a concept developed by James Lovelock in order to define the necessary changes to human settlement and dwelling at the global scale with the purpose of adapting to global warming and preventing its expected negative consequences on humans.\n\nLovelock thinks the time is past for sustainable development, and that we have come to a time when development is no longer sustainable. Therefore, we need to retreat. Lovelock states the following in order to explain the concept:\n\nThe concept of sustainable retreat emphasized a pattern of resource use that aims to meet human needs with lower levels and/or less environmentally harmful types of resources.\n\nLovelock was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1974. His nomination reads: \n\nLovelock has been awarded a number of prestigious prizes including the Tswett Medal (1975), the American Chemical Society Award in Chromatography (1980), the World Meteorological Organization Norbert Gerbier–MUMM Award (1988), the Dr A.H. Heineken Prize for Environmental Sciences (1990) and the Royal Geographical Society Discovery Lifetime award (2001). In 2006 he received the Wollaston Medal, the Geological Society of London's highest award, whose previous recipients include Charles Darwin . Lovelock was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) for services to the study of the Science and Atmosphere in the 1990 New Year Honours and a Member of the Order of the Companions of Honour (CH) for services to Global Environment Science in the 2003 New Year Honours.\n\nIn March 2012, the National Portrait Gallery unveiled a new portrait of Lovelock by British artist Michael Gaskell (2011). The collection also has two photographic portraits by Nick Sinclair (1993) and Paul Tozer (1994). The archive of the Royal Society of Arts has a 2009 image taken by Anne-Katrin Purkiss. Lovelock agreed to sit for sculptor Jon Edgar in Devon during 2007, as part of The Environment Triptych (2008) along with heads of Mary Midgley and Richard Mabey. A bronze head is in the collection of the sitter and the terracotta is in the archive of the artist.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3532705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3532705", "title": "John D. Morris", "text": "John D. Morris\n\nJohn David Morris (born 1946) is an American young earth creationist. He is the son of \"the father of creation science\", Henry M. Morris, and after his father's death became the president of the Institute for Creation Research (ICR). Morris is a creationist author and speaks at a variety of churches. Many of his presentations discuss the fossil record and its relation to evolution.\n\nMorris has a B.S. in Civil Engineering from Virginia Tech (1969), an M.S., University of Oklahoma (1977), and a Ph.D., University of Oklahoma (1980) in Geological Engineering. He served on the University of Oklahoma faculty. Morris held the position of Professor of Geology.\n\nIn 1984 he joined the Institute for Creation Research and in 1996 he became its president.\n\nCritics have disputed some of Morris's claims. For instance, the following statement by Morris:\n\n... elicited the following response from Jim Foley in TalkOrigins Archive:\n\n\n\nCritical of Morris\n\nthe chicken or the egg >plasma\n"}
{"id": "10148409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10148409", "title": "Kuzbass Autonomous Industrial Colony", "text": "Kuzbass Autonomous Industrial Colony\n\nThe Kuzbass Autonomous Industrial Colony was an experiment in workers' control in the Soviet Union from 1922 to 1926 during the New Economic Policy. It was based in Shcheglovsk, Kuzbass, Siberia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1096516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096516", "title": "Language and the euro", "text": "Language and the euro\n\nSeveral linguistic issues have arisen in relation to the spelling of the words euro and cent in the many languages of the member states of the European Union, as well as in relation to grammar and the formation of plurals.\nIn official documents, the name \"euro\" must be used for the nominative singular in all languages, though different alphabets are taken into account and plural forms and declensions are accepted. In documents other than EU legal texts, including national legislation, other spellings are accepted according to the various grammatical rules of the respective language. For European Union legislation, the spelling of the words for the currency is prescribed for each language; in the English-language version of European Union legislation the forms \"euro\" and \"cent\" are used invariantly in the singular and plural, even though this departs from usual English practice for currencies.\n\nIn Asturian, there has been a controversy about the spelling of the word. The official academic dictionary uses the spelling \"euru\", respecting the Asturian tendency to write nouns with a final \"-u\". However, considering that the international use is \"euro\" and that there is a tendency in Asturian to write some short forms with a final \"-o\" (like \"euro\" from \"Europa\"), other linguists, like Ramón d'Andrés, defend the spelling \"euro\".\n\nBulgarian uses Cyrillic. The current design of euro banknotes, except for the \"new\" €5, €10, €20, €50, and upcoming €100 banknotes, has the word \"euro\" written in Latin and Greek alphabets. The 2013 design of the € 5 banknote introduced Cyrillic, adopting the spelling ЕВРО, as described below.\nWhen Bulgaria issues Euro coins, if the Greek model is followed, the alternative spelling will go on the national (obverse) side.\n\nIn popular Bulgarian usage the currency is referred to as евро and, less often, (from Bulgarian Европа , meaning \"Europe\"); the plural varies in spoken language – евро, евра , еврота – but the most widespread form is евро – without inflection in plural. The word for euro, though, has a normal form with the postpositive definite article – еврото (the euro).\n\nThe word for eurocent is евроцент and most probably that, or only цент , will be used in future when the European currency is accepted in Bulgaria. In contrast to euro, the word for \"cent\" has a full inflection both in the definite and the plural form: евроцент (basic form), евроцентът (full definite article – postpositive), евроцентове (plural), 2 евроцента (numerative form – after numerals). The word stotinki (стотинки), singular stotinka (стотинка), the name of the subunit of the current Bulgarian currency can be used in place of cent, as it has become a synonym of the word \"coins\" in colloquial Bulgarian; just like \"cent\" (from Latin centum), its etymology is from a word meaning hundred – \"sto\" (сто). Stotinki is used widely in the Bulgarian diaspora in Europe to refer to subunits of currencies other than the Bulgarian lev.\n\nInitially, the ECB and the European Commission insisted that Bulgaria change the name it uses for the currency from ЕВРО to ЕУРО, claiming the currency should have an official and standard spelling across the EU. Bulgaria on the other hand stated that it wants to take into account the different alphabet and the principle of phonetic orthography in the Bulgarian language. The issue was decisively resolved in favour of Bulgaria at the 2007 EU Summit in Lisbon, allowing Bulgaria to use the Cyrillic spelling евро on all official EU documents. As of 13 December 2007, all EU institutions – including the ECB – use ЕВРО as the official Bulgarian transliteration of the single European currency.\n\nOf other national Slavic languages using the Cyrillic alphabet, Macedonian, Russian and Serbian also use the spelling евро. Ukrainian uses євро and Belarusian uses еўра/эўра.\n\nIn Catalan the official plural is the same as its regular plural \"euros\". The standard pronunciation of \"euro\" is .\n\nFor the cent, the word \"cèntim\" (, plural \"cèntims\") is used, since historically this term has been used as the hundredth part of a currency unit. The fraction of the peseta was also called \"cèntim\", but it was withdrawn from circulation decades ago.\n\nIn the Cornish language, euro is written \"ewro\" (like \"Ewrop\" 'Europe'), a masculine noun with its plural \"ewros\". For cent, \"cent\" is used, a masculine noun with the plural \"centys\".\n\nIn Croatian the euro and cent are called \"euro\" and \"cent\" (occasionally the word \"eurocent\" is used instead of \"cent\" to distinguish the euro denomination versus its foreign counterparts).\n\nPlural forms are, like in many Slavic languages, somewhat complex. The general plural form of euro is \"euri\", but the paucal or identically written (but not identically pronounced) genitive plural \"eura\" is used with all numbers, thus \"27 eura\". The numbers ending in 1 (e.g. 21 or 101) take the nominative singular, the exception being numbers ending in 11 (e.g. 11 or 111). The examples are: \"21 euro\", \"101 euro\", \"11 eura\", and \"111 eura\" respectively.\n\nThe general plural form of cent is \"centi\" and it is used with most numbers. The numbers ending in 1, except for those ending in 11, take the nominative singular \"cent\", while those ending in 2, 3 and 4 except 12, 13 or 14 take the paucal \"centa\". The examples are: \"1 cent\", \"4 centa\", \"7 centi\", \"10 centi\", \"11 centi\", \"12 centi\", \"22 centa\", \"27 centi\", \"31 cent\", \"101 cent\", \"102 centa\", \"111 centi\".\n\nBoth \"euro\" and \"cent\" in Croatian are of masculine gender.\n\nPronunciation follows the rules of Croatian. \"Euro\" is pronounced , while \"cent\" is pronounced .\n\nIn Czech, the words \"euro\" and \"cent\" are spelt the same as in English and pronounced per Czech phonology , . Occasionally the word \"eurocent\" is used instead of \"cent\" to distinguish the euro denomination versus its foreign counterparts. The spelling differs from the Czech word for Europe (\"Evropa\"); however \"euro-\" has become a standard prefix for all things relating to the EU (\"Evropská unie\").\n\nThe Czech declension uses different form of plural for various numerals: for 2, 3 and 4, it is plain nominative \"eura\" and \"centy\", while for numbers above 5, genitive (a vestige of partitive) \"eur\" and \"centů\" is used.\n\nFor compound numerals, there are two variants: either genitive plural is used (\"21 eur\", \"22 eur\") or the form is determined by the unit part of the numeral (\"21 euro\", \"22 eura\"). The partitive genitive is used only when the whole numeral phrase is in nominative or accusative phrases, otherwise the expected case is used: \"sedm eur\" (7 euros-genitive), but \"se sedmi eury\" (with seven-instrumental euro-instrumental). Moreover, these otherwise common declensions are often ignored and non-declined \"euro\" is used for every value (\"22 euro\"), even though this form is grammatically incorrect.\n\nIn Czech \"euro\" is of neuter gender and inflected as \"město\", while \"cent\" is masculine and inflected as \"hrad\".\n\nThe word \"euro\" is included in the 2002 version of \"Retskrivningsordbogen\", the authoritative source for the Danish language (according to Danish law). Two plurals are given, \"euro\" when referring to an amount, and \"euroer\" when referring to coins. Both \"cent\" and \"eurocent\" are mentioned; the plural and singular forms are identical.\n\nDanish words of Greek origin containing the sequence \"eu\" are traditionally pronounced with [œʊ̯], e.g. \"Zeus, terapeut, eutanasi, Europa\". However, in the word \"Europa\", a newer pronunciation with [eʊ̯] has gained ground in recent years, but this has not influenced the way \"euro\" is commonly pronounced.\n\nPlural: In Dutch, most abstract units of measurement are not pluralised, including the former Dutch guilder (\"gulden\" in Dutch) and Belgian franc (called \"frank\" in Dutch), and now the euro. An amount such as €5 is pronounced \"5 euro\". This coincides with EU legislation stating that \"euro\" and \"cent\" should be used as both singular and plural. In Dutch, the words are however pluralised as \"euro's\" and \"centen\" when referring to individual coins.\n\nThe euro is divided into 100 \"cent\", as was the guilder. The Belgian franc was divided into 100 \"centiemen\". The word \"eurocent\" is sometimes used to distinguish it from the cents of other currencies, such as the \"dollarcent\", but originally mainly to differentiate it from what used to be 0.01 guilder, also called \"cent\".\n\nPronunciation: The word \"euro\" is phonemically. This can be pronounced the same phonetically, but commonly also as , , and others depending on the dialect and speaker (see Dutch phonology).\n\nSlang terms: In the Netherlands, slang terms that were previously applied to guilder coinage and banknotes are sometimes applied to euro currency. Examples in the Netherlands include \"stuiver\" for 5 cents, \"dubbeltje\" for 10 cents. However, the word \"kwartje\" (quarter), previously used for a guilder coin worth ƒ0.25, did not survive the introduction of the euro, which lacks a coin worth €0.25. Another popular slang term is the plural form \"euri\" () (or even the double plural \"euries\" ()), a deliberate hypercorrect form referring to the plural of Dutch words of Latin or Italian origin.\n\nIn Belgium, some Flemings refer to the 1-, 2- and 5-cent coins as \"koper\", which is the Dutch word for copper, the metal these coins are made of (compare nickel). Another nickname is \"ros\" (\"redhead\") or \"roskes\" (\"little redheads\"), referring to the colour of the coins.\n\nSyntax: In Dutch language print, the euro sign (€) is chiefly placed before the amount, from which it is often separated by a (thin) space. This was also the case with the florin sign (ƒ).\n\nOfficial practice for English-language EU legislation (not necessarily in national legislation) is to use the words \"euro\" and \"cent\" as both singular and plural. This practice originally arose out of legislation intended to ensure that the banknotes were uncluttered with a string of plurals. Because the \"s\"-less plurals had become \"enshrined\" in EU legislation, the Commission decided to retain those plurals in English in legislation even while allowing regular plurals in other languages. The Directorate-General for Translation now recommends that the regular plurals, \"euros\" and \"cents\", be used. The European Commission Directorate-General for Translation's \"English Style Guide\" (a handbook for authors and translators in the European Commission) previously recommended the use of regular plurals for documents intended for the general public but now has no restriction on usage. \nPrior to 2006, the inter-institutional style guide recommended use of \"euro\" and \"cent\" without the plural \"s\", and the translation style guide recommended use of invariant plurals (without \"s\") when amending or referring to original legislation but use of regular plurals in documents intended for the general public.\n\nThere has been a limited development of the term \"eurozoner\", as a demonym for people in the eurozone. Although it began to appear at the turn of the 2000s, its usage is still rare.\n\nAs the euro was being adopted in Ireland the Department of Finance decided to use the word \"euro\" as both the singular and plural forms of the currency. This is in line with the general construction on plurals in Irish and has precedent in English (the yen, won, rand and baht), thus meaning the same word could be used in the two official languages of the state, Irish and English. Because Irish broadcasters took their cue from the Department, the \"legislative plurals\" tend to also be used on the news and in much Irish advertising. This has had the effect of reinforcing the \"s\"-less plurals. The print media also follows the popular usage of \"euro\" for both banknotes and amounts.\n\nThe term euro-cent is sometimes used in countries (such as Australia, Canada, and the United States) which also have \"cent\" as a currency subdivision, to distinguish them from their local coin. This usage, though unofficial, is mirrored on the coins themselves, which have the words \"EURO\" and \"CENT\" displayed on the common side.\n\nIn Faroese (and Icelandic) the euro is called evra, a feminine noun derived from the Faroese name of Europe, \"Evropa\"; this makes Faroese (with Icelandic) one of only two European languages in which the word for the euro is feminine. The plural is formed regularly: evrur. The cents are often called sent which is a neuter word and has the same form in the nominative plural.\n\nThe Finnish pronunciation for \"euro\" is . In Finnish, the form \"sentti\" is used for the cent – the letter 'c' is generally not used in Finnish, and nativized Finnish words cannot end in consonant combinations like '-nt', therefore an extra vowel 'i' is added. \"euro\" and \"sentti\" are declined like many other existing words ending in \"-o\" and \"-i\", and \"sentti\" displays consonant gradation (genitive \"euron\", \"sentin\"). With numerals, the partitive singulars \"euroa\" and \"senttiä\" are used, e.g., \"10 euroa\". This is abbreviated \"10 €\", where the \"€\" symbol takes the role of the word \"euroa\" (never *\"€10\" or *\"10€\"). The colon notation (\"€:a\") must not be used with the partitive of \"euro\" when the number is in the nominative. In general, colon notation should be avoided and, for example, one should write \"euron\" or \"euroa\" instead of \"€:n\" or \"€:a\".\n\nPlurals (e.g., \"kymmenet eurot\" \"tens of euros\") exist, but they are not used with singular numbers (e.g., \"kymmenen euroa\" \"ten euro\").\n\n\"Sentti\" is problematic in that its primary meaning in colloquial language is \"centimeter\". Thus, the officially recommended abbreviation of \"sentti\" is \"snt\", although Finnish merchants generally use a decimal notation (for example \"0,35 €\").\n\nSlang terms: In Helsinki slang, a common nickname for euro is \"ege\". In Tampere slang \"Eero\", a common male name, may be used for euro.\n\nIn French, the singular is \"un euro\" (masculine). The official plural is the same as the regular plural \"euros\".\nThe Académie française, which is regarded as an authority for the French language in France, stated this clearly, following French legislation in this regard.\n\nIn France, the word \"centime\" is far more common than \"cent\" and is recommended by the Académie française. \"Centime\" used to be a hundredth of the French franc which is now called \"centime de franc\". The word \"cent\" (plural \"cents\", both pronounced to avoid the confusion with \"cent\" (100) pronounced ) is the official term to be used in the French-language version of community legislation. Before its use in relation to the euro, the word \"cent\" (pronounced as in English, ) was best known to European Francophones as a hundredth of a dollar (U.S., Canadian, etc.)\n\nFrench-speaking Belgians use \"cent\" more often than \"centime\" because \"centime\" coins for the Belgian franc (worth, on 1 January 1999 about three U.S. cents) rarely circulated (only a 50 centime coin was still being issued) and because of the influence of Dutch and English, which are more commonly used in Belgium than in France as a result of Belgium's language diversity.\n\nPlural: In German, \"Euro\" and \"Cent\" are used as both singular and plural when following a numeral, as is the case with all units of measurement of masculine (e.g. \"Meter\", \"Dollar\") or neuter gender (e.g. \"Kilo[gramm]\", etc.). However, when talking about individual coins, the plurals \"Euros\" and \"Cents\" are used.\n\nThe only other marked case is the genitive singular, which is \"(des) Euros\" or, alternatively, \"des Euro.\"\n\nPronunciation: The beginning of the word \"Euro\" is pronounced in German with the diphthong , which sounds similar to the 'oi' in the English word \"oil\".\n\nThe spelling of the word \"Cent\" is not well adapted to German spelling conventions because these strive to avoid ambiguous letter-sound correspondences. Initial letter C is often used in loanwords and corresponds to various pronunciations depending on the language of origin (e.g. [s] in \"Centime\", in \"Cello\", in \"Celsius\" and [k] in \"Café\"). Most of these words are therefore eventually spelt phonetically (e.g. \"Kaffee\", \"Tschechien\" (Czech Republic), \"Zentimeter\").\n\nLatin words beginning with \"ce\" such as \"centum\" (hundred) traditionally represent in German, and German words derived from these have therefore long been spelt with a \"Z\", which represents (as in \"Zentrum\" (centre), \"Zentimeter\" (centimetre), etc.). Equivalently, some German speakers pronounce the beginning of the word \"Cent\" , but since they are familiar with the English pronunciation of the American unit \"cent\", most people pronounce it [s].\n\nAs these are nouns, both Euro and Cent are capitalised in German.\n\nSlang terms: In Austria and Germany, the euro has also been called \"Teuro\", a play on the word \"teuer\", meaning 'expensive'. The Deutsche Mark was worth half as much as the euro (a ratio of approximately 2:1) and some grocers and restaurants were accused of taking advantage of the smaller numbers to increase their actual prices with the changeover.\n\nIn youth and Internet culture the fake plural \"Euronen\" is sometimes used; this form's origin is unknown but it bears resemblance to \"Dublonen\" (Dubloons) and has a retro ring to it. Also, \"Öre\" is occasionally used, the name of the Swedish currency. Among some punks, the word \"Oi\", as in the punk rock subgenre of Oi!, is used. Unlike the previous currencies (Mark and Schilling) which had well established nicknames for individual coins and notes, there are few widely used nicknames for Euros, but the two Euro coin is sometimes called \"Zwickel\" like the old two Mark piece and the 50 cent piece is sometimes ironically referred to as \"a rapper\" alluding to 50 Cent.\n\nIn German Usenet culture, the name \"Fragezeichen\" (question mark) was occasionally used in reference to initial problems with display of the euro sign, which was often rendered as a question mark. The term was most often written using the mock currency code FRZ. This technical trouble has diminished and so has the usage of this term.\n\nAbbreviations: EUR. TEUR for thousand Euros and MEUR for a million Euros are often used in financial documents. Numbers are given with a comma as decimal separator.\n\nIn the Greek language the indeclinable word () is used as the currency's name. It was decided to use omega (ω) rather than omicron (ο) as the last letter of the word, partly because a noun ending with omicron would encourage mutability, and partly to stress the origin of the euro in the Greek word (\"Eurōpē\", Europe) which is also spelt with omega and it is actually written on the euro notes in Greek as . Also, the spelling (resulting in a plural ) on the notes could have confused other Europeans, who might read it as a string of Latin letters: \"eypo\". A plural form \"evra\", as if from a regular declinable neuter noun in \"-o\", is sometimes used in a jocular way.\n\nFor the cent, the terms used in Greece are , plural (\"leptó\", plural \"leptá\"), a name used for small denominations of various ancient and modern Greek currencies, including the drachma (which the euro replaced). The word means 'minute' (literally \"thin\"), the same as the unit of measurement of time or of angle. The term , plural (\"evroleptó\", plural \"evroleptá\") is sometimes used when a speaker wants to be completely specific that they are referring to money and not time.\n\nSome colloquial names for currency are also in use for the euro. One and two euro coins are respectively called (\"frago\") and (\"difrago\") from the French \"franc\". A 5 euro banknote is also colloquially called (\"taliro\") from the Germanic root \"thaler\" via the Italian \"talero\". A 10 euro banknote is called (\"dekariko\"), a 20 euro banknote is called (\"eikosariko\") or (\"eikosari\"), and a 50 euro banknote is called (\"penintariko\"), derivatives of the words for ten, twenty and fifty.\n\n10 lepta of a drachma were called (\"dekara\"), but since lepta of the drachma were out of circulation long before the euro, this word is now considered too old-fashioned and only used in old expressions and thus it is not used for the 10 eurocent coin. Nevertheless, all Greeks understand the word to stand for 10 cents of any currency and thus use it for non-euro currencies like the dime of the US dollar. The same is true for the 5-cent coin which is not called (\"pentara\") like its drachma equivalent. These words come from the words for five and ten respectively.\n\nIn Cyprus, however, the cent is officially called \"cent\" () both in singular and plural. This is the name formerly used for of the Cypriot pound chosen for its neutrality to both official languages of the Republic (Greek and Turkish).\n\nIn Hungarian the currency is named \"euró\" () and \"cent\" () without plural forms (as in Hungarian no plural is used after numerals), the former written with an accented \"ó\", as decided by the Research Institute for Linguistics of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, since Hungarian words ending with either \"o\" or \"u\" have to be accented as \"ó\" and \"ú\". See these international words as examples: \"fotó, videó, sztereó\". The spelling is also in accordance with the word \"Európa\" (\"Europe\") in Hungarian.\n\nHungarian language does not use plural after numerals, as numerals already express plural; however, both \"euró\" and \"cent\" can take suffixes regarding to grammatical cases, just as:\n\nOn introduction of the euro, Hungary—along with Lithuania, Latvia, and Slovenia—struggled for the euro to be written in its official documents according to its own usage and spelling, in contrast with Community law, which provides for a single name throughout the Union (in the nominative singular and taking account of different alphabets).\n\nThe Treaty of Lisbon, signed in 2009, contains the following declaration from Hungary, Latvia and Malta:\n58. Declaration by the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Malta on the spelling of the name of the single currency in the Treaties\nWithout prejudice to the unified spelling of the name of the single currency of the European Union referred to in the Treaties as displayed on the banknotes and on the coins, Latvia, Hungary and Malta declare that the spelling of the name of the single currency, including its derivatives as applied throughout the Latvian, Hungarian and Maltese text of the Treaties, has no effect on the existing rules of the Latvian, Hungarian or Maltese languages.\n\nIn Irish, the words \"euro\" and \"cent\" are used without change in spelling or pronunciation, and immune to the regular rules of Irish mutation after numbers; as such, they are ungendered, and the plural \"euronna\" is thus rarely encountered. The word \"ceint\" (, plural \"ceinteanna\" ) has been in the lexicon since at least 1959 and is attested in printed literature, but is very rarely encountered.\n\nThe masculine noun \"eoró\" (plural \"eorónna\" ) has been coined from the word \"Eoraip\" ('Europe'). Linguist Michael Everson has suggested \"eora\" (plural \"eoraí\") as a more grammatically acceptable Irish term, and wrote \"The European Council has no right to prescribe, or even to endorse, the orthographical or grammatical forms of \"any\" word in any language, whether official or not. This right belongs to the people of Europe.\"\n\nIrish also practices lenition after the numerals 2–6 (5 \"cheint\") and eclipsis after numerals 7–10 (9 \"gceint\", 8 \"n-eoró\"). However, as \"ceint\" is irregularly pronounced (no other Irish word has a soft \"c\"), lenition and eclipsis are usually not applied.\n\nIn Italian the word \"euro\" is used, as both singular and plural. Its standard pronunciation is , although native northern Italians use instead. The plural form \"euri\" is uncommon, but not incorrect.\n\nThe issue of whether the correct plural form would be \"euri\" or \"euro\" remained open for a long time, predating the actual introduction of the currency. The Accademia della Crusca assigned to Severina Parodi, lexicographer, and to Luca Serianni, language historian, the task to give a response. They deliberated in favour of \"euri\" in 1999 with the motivation that \"euro is a masculine noun\". But the issue was then re-examined many times.\nFinally, in 2001 the consensus of the Accademia coalesced in favour of invariability. The rationale was based on the fact that abbreviated words originating from a longer word (for example \"auto\" from \"automobile\" (car) or \"moto\" from \"motocicletta\" (motorbike)) do not have a plural form, as well as the fact that the word \"euro\" is considered an abbreviation of the word \"Eurovaluta\" (European currency) . In 2002 an amendment to the financial act was proposed to adopt \"euri\" as the plural form for public official deeds, but was quickly rejected by the Parliament.\n\nThe word \"cent\" (pronounced ) is in practical use always replaced by the word \"centesimo\" (), which simply means \"hundredth\" (also see \"centime\" in French); its plural form is \"centesimi\". \"Cent\" only appears on documents such as electricity and telephone bills; it is perceived by native speakers as an abbreviation of \"centesimo\" (and in fact often followed by a period) rather than as an autonomous proper name.\n\nIn Latvian the commonly used term is eiro (which somewhat resembles the West European \"euro\", but has also taken its sound from \"Eiropa\", the Latvian word for \"Europe\").\nHowever, in 2004 it was proposed by Terminology Commission of the Latvian Academy of Sciences that standardized usage should be eira as \"eiro\" is undeclinable in Latvian. The commission argued that a potentially frequently used term needs to fit especially well in the structure of Latvian grammar. They suggested that \"eiro\" is especially inconvenient to use in dative and locative, which would necessitate addition of \"valūta\" (\"currency\") for clarification.\n\nHowever, this decision resulted in public outcry, which resulted in the commission amending its original ruling to state that usage of \"euro\" is inappropriate for Latvian, and that \"eiro\" is acceptable as a parallel form, but its use should be limited and it should be dropped over time. The reasoning was explained, that while they still insist on the use of \"eira\", they acknowledge that a half of users of the language are not content with such a form. They explained that the use of \"euro\" (and \"cent\" without nominative ending) is ill-suited to the language because an \"eu\" diphthong does not exist in Latvian, and orthographic rules discourage spellings that don't reflect pronunciation. Additionally, the \"eiro\" spelling is closer to \"Eiropa\", the Latvian word for \"Europe\".\n\nIn Leonese, a language spoken in the Spanish provinces of León and Zamora, the word for \"euro\" is \"euru\", the plural being \"euros\".\n\nIn Lithuanian the euro and cent are called \"euras\" () and \"centas\" () (in common language usually \"eurocentas\", to distinguish from the cents of the former Lithuanian currency, \"litas\"), while plural forms are \"eurai\" and \"centai\" (\"eurocentai\"). The Lithuanian language routinely adapts foreign words by re-spelling them according to Lithuanian phonetic rules and adding standardised endings, resulting in words like \"kompiuteris\" or \"Tonis Bleiras\".\n\nIn Luxembourgish the Euro is officially called \"Euro\" (pronounced \"oi-ro\"), both in singular and plural forms, although the correct plural according to linguistic rules would normally be \"Euroën\" (pronounced \"oi-ro-en\").\n\nThe Cent is called \"Cent\" (pronounced \"tsennt\"), plural \"Cents\".\nIn popular parlance the term \"Zantimm\" (pronounced \"tsunn-tim\") is also used, a word derived from the French \"Centime\".\n\nIn Maltese, the spelling is \"ewro\", as announced in December 2005. The currency name \"ewro\" is spelt with \"w\" (not with a \"u\") as derived from the Maltese word \"Ewropa\" (Europe), also written with \"w\". Furthermore, the vowels \"e\" and \"u\" are not written next to each other in Maltese, except when they are pronounced as two syllables, which is not the case here. The plural of the word remains unchanged, as the singular. The cent is known as \"ċenteżmu\", plural \"ċenteżmi\", both abbreviated to \"ċ\".\n\nIn Maltese, 'ewro' is written with a small letter \"e\" and is masculine singular – as in \"L-ewro huwa...\" (The euro is...) and \"Il-munita tal-ewro hija\" (The euro coin is...).\n\nMirandese (a regional language spoken in the northeastern Portuguese region of Miranda do Douro) uses the prefix \"ou\" already present in words like \"European\" (\"Ouropeu\"). The singular form is \"ouro\" () and the plural form is \"ouros\" (). \"Ouro\" is also the Mirandese word for 'gold', as in Portuguese.\n\nIn Polish, \"euro\" is both singular and plural, and pronounced . This noun belongs to a small group of nouns of foreign origin in Polish that, as an exception, remain non-declinable in any of the seven cases (other examples being \"zoo\", \"Waterloo\" and few others). It is however likely for the word \"euro\" to follow the pattern of other foreign words like \"kino\", \"studio\" and \"radio\" and eventually become fully declinable in a similar manner as a result of a full linguistic absorption of the word into Polish. \"Cent\" is declinable, being \"eurocent\" or simply \"cent\" () in singular nominative and \"eurocenty\" or \"centy\" () in plural nominative or \"eurocentów\" or \"centów\" () in plural genitive.\n\nIn Portuguese, \"euro\" has a Portuguese word-ending and thus is used in the singular, with \"euros\" the plural form. \"Cent\", which does not conform to Portuguese word-forming rules, is commonly converted to \"cêntimo\" (singular) and \"cêntimos\" (plural).\n\nThe term \"cêntimo\" might have been adopted to distinguish it from the fractional value of the \"Portuguese escudo\", which was called \"centavo\".\n\nPronunciation of \"euro\" in Portuguese is still not standardized: either or . The latter has the regular final unstressed -\"o\" pronunciation, as , and is more widespread in the north of the country, while the former is more common in the south. \"Euro\", \"cêntimo\" and \"centavo\" are masculine nouns in Portuguese, and as such, \"the cents\" are translated as \"os cêntimos\" and \"those euros\" as \"aqueles euros\".\n\nIn Brazil the pronunciation is (generally in Rio de Janeiro and further north, as in Portugal, and in São Paulo and further south and west as well as the places where southern Brazilians settled) and fractional values are called \"centavos de euro\" (cents of euro) to differentiate them from Brazilian real \"centavos\".\n\nIn Romanian the euro and cent are called \"euro\" and \"cent\" (plural \"\" ). The official plural of \"euro\" is also \"euro\", and this official form was readily adopted by speakers. The \"eu\" construct is not a diphthong, thus the pronunciation is .\n\nWhen speaking in a familiar–vernacular setting, some speakers would make the informal plural \"euroi\" (not seen as academic, and not used officially; its stylistic value–connotation is less than \"bucks\" for US dollars or \"quid\" for GBP in English and \"much lower\" than the almost everyday use of \"piasse\" (piastre, with the cent called \"sou\") for CAD in Canadian French). The USD also has a nickname (the word \"para\"/\"parai\" of Turkish origin) with the same negative stylistic value. Not to be confused with general nicknames for money in general or unclear nicknames for foreign currencies (e.g.\"coco\" – the specific currency is supposed to be inferred by the listener from previous info/conversation or from the country the speakers are in).\n\nDue to the lack of a governing body, there is no consistent usage regarding the terms for euro and cent in Scottish Gaelic. The various approaches include:\n\n\nIn Slovak the euro and cent are called \"euro\" and \"cent\", the plural forms for amounts between 2 and 4 are \"2 eurá/centy\", and the plural forms for larger amounts are \"5 eur/centov\". \"Euro\" is spelt with a \"u\" because it is derived from the word \"Európa\" (Europe). The c in cent represents .\n\nSlang terms: common nicknames for euro in Slovak includes: \"euráče\", \"evri\", \"juráše\", \"éčka\" (literally \"e\"-s or \"letters ‘e’\"). Cents are sometimes jokingly called \"šestáky\" (as a common term for coins with small value); \"meďáky\" or \"medenáky\" (literally \"coppers\" or \"the copper ones\") or \"haliere\" which is a reference to the small coins of the original Slovak currency.\n\nIn Slovene the euro and cent are called \"evro\" and \"cent\" (, ), the dual form is \"2 evra/centa\" (, or ) and the plural forms are \"3/4 evri/centi\" (, or ), \"5+ evrov/centov\" (, or ), the same declension case being used for all higher numerals up to 100, then beginning again (\"101 evro/cent\", \"102 evra/centa\", \"103 evri/centi\", \"104 evri/centi\", \"105 evrov/centov\" etc.). \"Evro\" is spelt with \"v\" according to standard Slovene orthography, and matches the word \"Evropa\" (Europe).\n\nIn laws and regulations, though, the word ‘evro’ is replaced with the word ‘euro’ in all grammatical cases in accordance with an agreement between Slovenia and the European Union. In normative Slovene language usage ‘evro’ spelling should only be used, except as noted.\n\nIn the Spanish language, the official plural is the same as its regular plural \"euros\". For the cent, the word \"céntimo\" (plural \"céntimos\") can be used. The fraction of the peseta was also called \"céntimo\", but no céntimo coins had been issued since 1980, and had since been demonetised. The word \"euro\" is pronounced in Spanish, and \"céntimo\" or .\n\nSlang terms: the euro is often referred to as \"pavo\", meaning \"turkey\" in English (the usual translation for \"buck\" in dubbed films).\n\nIn Swedish writing, euro is spelt \"euro\" (and cent is spelt \"cent\") both in singular and plural, or written EUR, or €. The € sign is common in Finland but rare in Sweden. The currency \"the euro\" is spelt \"euron\" following Swedish grammar rules.\n\nIn Sweden, the accepted pronunciations are (more common and similar to how \"eu\" is pronounced in modern Swedish in \"neuro-\") or (similar to how \"eu\" is pronounced in modern Swedish in \"Europa\"). However, many Swedes choose to pronounce it in a more English way (no \"s\" in plural). This pronunciation is rejected by official authorities, such as the Swedish Language Council, and not used in television news. In Sweden there are no widespread slang terms since the euro is a foreign currency.\n\nIn Finland, the euro is the official currency, and Swedish is an official language alongside Finnish. The same spelling as in Sweden is used (officially Swedish in Finland is spelt as in Sweden). The pronunciation, however, is , which has some similarities to Finnish pronunciation. The abbreviation is like 3,14 €, same as for Finnish. Among Swedish-speaking as well as Finnish-speaking people in Helsinki, a common slang term is \"ege\".\n\nIn Welsh, euro and cent are called \"ewro\" (masculine) and \"sent\" (feminine). The plural forms are respectively \"ewros\" and \"sentiau\" , although in the Welsh language, numerals are always followed by the singular form of nouns, thus: \"pum ewro\" (€5), \"deg sent\" (€0.10). Informally, the more Anglicised may be used, written either the Welsh way, \"iwro\", or as in English, \"euro.\" The second of these it should be noted the native word \"euro\" (\"to gild\") already exists. Note too that in Welsh the abbreviation \"c\" stands for \"ceiniog\" (penny).\n\nIn Albanian, the euro is referred to as \"euro\". This is the same for Albanian in Kosovo, Macedonia and rest of the Balkans. Some Kosovo Albanian speakers however, pronounce euro like Germans; 'oiro'/'oi', due to heavily migration. It is derived from the Albanian word for Europe, \"Europa\", \"Europë\" and also \"Evropa\"/\"Evropë\". All variants are official in Albanian, however Albania uses Euro, Europa or Europe whilst other Albanian dialects such as in Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia often use Evrope or Evropa. However the currency euro is not ever pronounced as evro like their Slavic neighbours.\n\nNote: depending on dialect, location, diaspora and ethnicity some Albanians vary their pronunciations based on standard Albanian, Italian, Greek, German or Slavic (such as those in Macedonia or Serbia).\n\nIn Arabic, the euro is usually referred to as , which is an adaptation of the English pronunciation of the currency's name. Another naming is , which is an approximation of the French pronunciation . In most cases this term is used both for the singular and the plural form, although the plurals and are sometimes encountered. The name for Europe in Arabic is . Because loanwords are not of Arabic origin, they are pronounced in accordance with the spoken varieties of Arabic phonology. For example, is pronounced by Egyptian Arabic speakers, while by Levantine Arabic speakers.\n\nAttempts to artificially arabize the pronunciation according to the standardized Arabic phonology would be more conforming to Arabic transliterations such as \"\" which would be theoretically pronounced for , respectively.\nSee also Arabic diglossia to understand why the pronunciation differs from region to region.\n\nThe Armenian word for euro is , pronounced in exactly the same way as the Greek, with an added initial \"y\" sound. It is derived from the Armenian word for Europe, , which is pronounced , as stress in Armenian usually falls on the final syllable. Cent in Armenian is pronounced ().\n\nThe plural of euro, in accordance with the formation of plurals in Armenian, is . The plural of cent, however, is , pronounced .\n\nThe Azerbaijani name for Europe is \"Avropa\", similar to that of its sister language, Turkish, and the Azerbaijani word for euro, derived from that for Europe, is \"avro\", identical to Turkish.\n\nIn Chinese, the euro is known as 欧元 (simplified), 歐元 (traditional), \"ōuyuán\" (pinyin), from the Chinese word for Europe, 欧洲 / 歐洲, \"Ōuzhōu\", and the word 元 \"yuán\", meaning coin. This follows the same pattern as the word for the American dollar 美元, \"měiyuán\". For cents, the word 欧分 / 歐分 \"ōufén\", is used. However, in Hong Kong it is often referred to as 歐羅 () to distinguish it from the Australian dollar (澳元, ), because in Cantonese 歐元 and 澳元 have similar pronunciations.\n\nAs the character 元 in 欧元, is a counter word in Chinese, there is no need to put a measure word before the word. An example is: 五十欧元 (financial Chinese: 伍拾欧元) \"wǔshí ōuyuán\" for fifty euros.\n\nIn Esperanto, the currency is called \"eŭro\", similar to the Esperanto word for the continent \"Eŭropo.\" The \"o\" ending in euro conveniently accords with the standard \"-o\" noun ending in Esperanto, but rather than sound out \"e\" and \"u\" separately, Esperanto speakers use the diphthong \"eŭ\", which matches its etymology. Plurals are formed in accordance with Esperanto rules, eŭroj and cendoj. The words are also declined as any Esperanto noun (eŭro/eŭroj in the nominative, eŭron/eŭrojn in the accusative).\n\nA cent is cendo, as is commonly used for subunits of all centimalized currency (cents, centimes, etc.). The alternatives are \"centimo\" from the French \"centime\" or a more technical \"centono\", literally, \"one-hundredth part\". (Esperanto speakers are unlikely to call a cent \"cento,\" since \"cento\" means a group of 100, rather than a hundredth.)\n\nIn Georgian, the euro is called (\"evro\", pronounced ), derived from the Georgian word for Europe, . Unlike in Greek and Armenian, the stress of the word \"evro\" falls on the first syllable, as is usual in Georgian. Cent is , as nativized Georgian words cannot end in a consonant, so an extra vowel 'i' is added. The respective plurals of euro and cent are and .\n\nWhen euro coins and banknotes were introduced, the question of the spelling and pronunciation of the currency's name in Hebrew arose. The official name of the currency established by the Academy of the Hebrew Language and the Bank of Israel is derived from \n\nAn unofficial spelling and pronunciation , derived from the English pronunciation of the currency's name, is also used.\n\nAlthough in Hebrew currency names are usually declined for singular and plural, both forms of the Euro name are used for the singular and plural alike.\n\nIn Hindi, the euro is spelt as यूरो (Yūro), while cent is written as सेंट (seṇṭ). Both the words are not pluralised. Europe is known as यूरोप (Yūrop) in Hindi.\n\nIn Icelandic the euro is called \"evra\", a feminine noun derived from the Icelandic name of Europe, \"Evrópa\"; this makes Icelandic (with Faroese) one of only two European languages in which the word for the euro is feminine. The plural is formed regularly: \"evrur\". The cents are often called sent which is a neuter word and has the same form in the nominative plural. However, a more common usage is to write, say, 20 cents as \"0,20 evrur\".\n\nIn Ido, there's a rule saying that \"every word pertaining to a national or local custom will get imported to the language without change or adaption, both the singular and the plural forms alike\" (known as \"vorti stranjera\" – foreign words). This gets especially applied to \"currencies, weights and measurements that doesn't belong to the metric system\" (according to KGD, Kompleta Gramatiko Detaloza – Ido's grammar book). Thus the best word for \"euro\" would be just \"euro\", like \"dollar\" and \"pound\", with the plural probably kept the same: \"euro\", since most languages does that.\n\nIn common speech, though, many Idists commonly refer to the currency as \"euro\" and \"euri\" as if it got fully adopted to the language because of the common use of the currency.\n\nSimilarly, \"cent\" is \"cent\", with the plural imported from its source, English: \"cents\".\n\nFor both words, there are two other possibilities for pluralization. The native plural \"-i\" could be added to the \"vorto stranjera\" with the dash to mark that it's a foreign word: \"cent-i\" and \"euro-i\", or to add the plural definite article \"le\": \"le cent\" and \"le euro\", though that generally means \"the cents\" and \"the euros\".\n\nIn Japanese the euro is called \"yūro\" (ユーロ) based on the English pronunciation, using the katakana syllabary employed for foreign words. However, the word for Europe in Japanese is \"yōroppa\" (ヨーロッパ), probably borrowed from the Portuguese \"Europa\" () or from the Dutch \"Europa\", not English. The cent uses the same word employed for all currencies using cents. This is rendered \"sento\" (or セント in the katakana script) and it is also based on the English pronunciation. In Japanese, like other East Asian languages, no plurals are used for units so both \"yūro\" and \"sento\" are used as the singular and plural.\n\nIn Korean of South Korea, the Euro is called \"yuro\" (유로) and Cent is called \"senteu\" (센트). The word for Europe in Korean is \"Yureop\" (유럽). They are all based on the English pronunciation.\n\nLiving Latin enthusiasts use \"euro\" (indeclinable) or \"euro\", -\"onis\" (pl. \"eurones\"); sometimes also \"eurum\", \"-i\" (pl. \"eura\"), \"euronummus\", \"-i\" (pl. \"euronummi\") or even \"euronus\", \"-i\" (pl. \"euroni\").\n\nThe Manx word for \"euro\" is either \"oarey\" (plural: \"oaraghyn\"), based on \"Yn Oarpey\" (\"Europe\"), or \"euro\", from English. \"Cent\" is either \"kent\" (plural: \"kentyn\") or \"sent\".\n\nIn Norwegian there could be a problem concerning the spelling, since euro is masculine and would normally take a plural -er ending in Bokmål and -ar in Nynorsk. But since words for foreign currencies (like \"dollar\" and \"yen\") normally do not have the endings -er or -ar in Norwegian the Norwegian Language Council reached a decision in 1996 that the proper declension of the word euro should be\n\nin Bokmål:\n\nin Nynorsk:\n\nThe declensions are respectively: The two first in Singular, and the two last in Plural, while the first of each category are indefinite, the last of each category are definite nouns. The word cent is an old loan word in Norwegian – and it is declined the same way:\n\nin Bokmål:\n\nin Nynorsk:\n\nThe pronunciation of the two words in Norwegian are and .\n\nIn Romansh, the words are \"euro\" and \"cent\"; these are regular masculine nouns forming their plurals with -s, as \"euros\" and \"cents\", respectively.\n\nRussia currently borders four eurozone members, Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. They supply much of the euro inflow in Russia in trade exchange and tourism. In Russian, just like in the Bulgarian language, euro is spelt евро (\"jevro\", pronounced ) both in the singular and the plural, while \"cent\" is цент (sg.) and центы (pl.), though there are many colloquial semi-ironic forms such as евры 'jevry' or еврики 'jevriki' (there's no plural form for \"euro\" in Russian), копейки for cents and others. Just as in Italian, although евро could have been declined as a regular neuter noun, it was made indeclinable like many neutral loanwords ending in a vowel: бюро \"bureau, office, writing-desk\", пальто \"overcoat\", кофе \"coffee\", бордо \"Bordeaux wine, claret\" etc.; the same form is used in the singular and the plural. Cents are sometimes transliterated as цент 'tsent' – singular, центы 'tsenty' – plural. Numerative form is цент for 1 cent (as well as amounts that end in 1 except for the ones ending in 11 – e.g. 51 цент but 11 центов), центa, the genitive singular, for 2 to 4 cents (as well as any other amounts ending in 2, 3 or 4, except for the ones ending in 12, 13, 14 – e.g. 54 центa but 12 центoв) and центoв, genitive plural, for the rest – 88 центoв. Sometimes eвроцент (also romanized as 'jevrocent' or 'evrotsent') is used to distinguish euro-cents from the American cents. (If евро had been treated as a regular neuter noun instead of being indeclinable, it would have the forms *евра (regular plural or genitive singular) and *евр (genitive plural), but this treatment would have been unusual for a loanword.)\n\nIn Serbian the euro and cent are called \"evro\" (Cyrillic: евро) and \"cent\" (Cyrillic: цент) . \"Evro\" is spelt with a \"v\" because it is derived from the name Европа/\"Evropa\" (Europe).\n\nBoth \"evro\" and \"cent\" are masculine nouns. They are inflected according to regular rules of the language:\n\n\nThe genitive plural \"centi\" is produced in an old-fashioned way that is today mostly reserved for measurement units. The alternative \"centa\" follows the vastly more common pattern of other masculine nouns but is very rarely heard in practice.\n\nTurkey and Northern Cyprus continue to use the Turkish lira as their official currency, but the euro is popularly used, particularly by individuals wanting to convert their savings into a more stable currency. \"Euro\" has colloquially been pronounced in the English fashion since its inception.\n\nIn response to criticism of the widespread English pronunciation of \"euro\", the Turkish Language Association officially introduced \"avro\" into Turkish (\"av\" being the first syllable of the Turkish word for Europe, \"Avrupa\") in 1998. A concerted campaign by the Turkish Language Association has begun to blossom in recent years, with most sections of the Turkish media now using the new word. It has yet to enter widespread colloquial use, however.\n\nThe euro is becoming relatively widespread in Ukraine although the country did not border the eurozone until 1 January 2009. In standard literary Ukrainian the name is євро (pronounced ). The same form is used in singular and plural cases. Cents are translated as цент () in the singular and центи () in the plural. In the Ukrainian language there is some variation in cases. Numerative form is цент for 1 cent (as well as amounts that end in 1 except for the ones ending in 11 – e.g. 51 цент but 11 центів), центи for 2 to 4 cents (as well as any other amounts ending in 2, 3 or 4, except for the ones ending in 12, 13, 14 – e.g. 54 центи but 12 центів) and центів for the rest – 88 центів. Sometimes євроцент () is used to distinguish eurocents from American cents.\n\n"}
{"id": "4249240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4249240", "title": "Ministry of Economic Development (New Zealand)", "text": "Ministry of Economic Development (New Zealand)\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Development () was a New Zealand public sector organisation tasked with promoting development of New Zealand's economy. Known as the Ministry of Commerce until 2000, it was renamed in 2000 under the Fifth Labour Government, then replaced with the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment on 1 July 2012 by the subsequent National Government.\n\nThe Ministry dealt with policy in a wide range of different areas including energy, communications, the radio spectrum, industry and regional development, intellectual property, consumer issues, tourism, international trade, and the regulatory environment. \n\nAt the time of its disestablishment, the Ministry supported eight ministerial portfolios: the Minister of Economic Development (Lead Minister for the Ministry of Economic Development), the Minister of Commerce, the Minister for Communications and Information Technology, the Minister of Consumer Affairs, the Minister of Energy and Resources, the Minister of Regulatory Reform, the Minister for Small Business, and the Minister of Tourism, and previously provide support for the disestablished positions of Minister for Industry and Regional Development and Minister responsible for the Government Superannuation Fund, and to the Minister of Broadcasting and the Minister for Sport, Fitness and Leisure before support for these positions was provided by the Ministry for Culture and Heritage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40644270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40644270", "title": "Ministry of Economy and Planning", "text": "Ministry of Economy and Planning\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Planning () is one of the governmental bodies of Saudi Arabia and part of the cabinet. The ministry has the function of developing and implementing five-year plans which reflect the long-term economical targets of the country.\n\nThe ministry of economy was established in 1953. However, the body was not functional and was disestablished in 1954.\n\nThe ministry of economy and planning was formed in 2003 when the ministry of planning and economy department were merged. Until 2003 the ministry of planning was in charge of development and implementation of five-year plans. The ministry is based in Riyadh.\n\nSince its foundation in 2003, the ministry has been headed by three ministers. The first minister was Khalid bin Mohammed Al Gosaibi who was appointed to the post in April 2003. Mohammad Al Jasser was the minister of economy and planning from December 2011 to April 2015. Adel Fakeih was appointed the minister of economy and planning in April 2015.\n\nThe major function of the ministry is to prepare the development plans of the country. It has various major agencies including the central department of statistics and the national computer center.\n"}
{"id": "4013677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4013677", "title": "Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs", "text": "Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs () is a government department of Greece. One of the oldest ministries, established in 1833, it is responsible for running the country's education system and for supervising the religions in Greece. The minister is Kostas Gabroglou.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4322728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4322728", "title": "Nagasaki Peace Park", "text": "Nagasaki Peace Park\n\nNagasaki Peace Park is a park located in Nagasaki, Japan, commemorating the atomic bombing of the city on August 9, 1945 during World War II. It is next to the Atomic Bomb Museum and near the Peace Memorial Hall.\n\nEstablished in 1955, and near to the hypocenter of the explosion, remnants of a concrete wall of Urakami Cathedral can still be seen. Urakami Cathedral was the grandest church in east Asia at the time. At the park's north end is the 10-meter-tall Peace Statue created by sculptor Seibo Kitamura of Nagasaki Prefecture. The statue's right hand points to the threat of nuclear weapons while the extended left hand symbolizes eternal peace. The mild face symbolizes divine grace and the gently closed eyes offer a prayer for the repose of the bomb victims' souls. The folded right leg and extended left leg signify both meditation and the initiative to stand up and rescue the people of the world. The statue represents a mixture of western and eastern art, religion, and ideology. Installed in front of the statue is a black marble vault containing the names of the atomic bomb victims and survivors who died in subsequent years.\nA plaque by the Peace Statue is titled \"Words from the Sculptor\" and reads:\n\nA plaque at the nearby hypocenter gives the following account and statistics of the damage caused that day.\n\nEvery year, on 9 August, the anniversary of the atomic bombing, a Peace Memorial Ceremony is held in front of the statue and the Mayor of Nagasaki delivers a Peace Declaration to the World.\n\nAt the south end of the park is a \"Fountain of Peace\". This was constructed in August, 1969, as a prayer for the repose of the souls of the many atomic bomb victims who died searching for water, and as a dedication to world peace. Lines from a poem by a girl named Sachiko Yamaguchi, who was nine at the time of the bombing, are carved on a black stone plaque in front of the fountain. It reads: \"I was thirsty beyond endurance. There was something oily on the surface of the water, but I wanted water so badly that I drank it just as it was.\"\n\nIn 1978 the city of Nagasaki established a \"Peace Symbols Zone\" on both sides of the park and invited donations of monuments from countries round the world. The following monuments can be seen in the park:\n\nThe Monument for Korean Atomic Victims is located in Nagasaki Peace Park in Nagasaki, Japan. At the time of the atomic bombing in Nagasaki, there were many people of nationalities other than Japanese that were living in the area. There were an estimated 12,000 to 14,000 Koreans living in Nagasaki during the bombing. It is believed that up to 2,000 of them died because of the atomic bomb. At the time, those Koreans were being used as forced labor as a part of the Japanese war effort. This monument commemorates the Korean victims and serves as a message asking for peace in the world, an abolition of nuclear weapons, and a peaceful reunification of the Korean nation. The Monument for Korean Atomic Victims was unveiled on August 9, 1979.\n"}
{"id": "270488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270488", "title": "National Endowment for Democracy", "text": "National Endowment for Democracy\n\nThe National Endowment for Democracy (NED) is a U.S. non-profit soft power organization that was founded in 1983 with the stated goal of promoting democracy abroad. It is funded primarily through an annual allocation from the U.S. Congress in the form of a grant awarded through the United States Information Agency (USIA). It was created by The Democracy Program as a bipartisan, private, non-profit corporation, and in turn acts as a grant-making foundation. In addition to its grants program, NED also supports and houses the \"Journal of Democracy\", the World Movement for Democracy, the International Forum for Democratic Studies, the Reagan–Fascell Fellowship Program, the Network of Democracy Research Institutes, and the Center for International Media Assistance.\n\nA bill was introduced in April 1967 by Congressman Dante Fascell (D-Fla.) to create an institute of International Affairs. And although the bill did not pass it led to discussions on Capitol Hill to establish an institution in which democracy efforts abroad would benefit the U.S. as well as countries struggling for freedom and self- government.\n\nIn a 1982 speech at the Palace of Westminster, President Ronald Reagan proposed an initiative, before the British Parliament, \"to foster the infrastructure of democracy—the system of a free press, unions, political parties, universities.\" The U.S. government, through USAID (United States Agency for International Development), contracted The American Political Foundation to study democracy promotion, which became known as \"The Democracy Program.\" The Program recommended the creation of a bipartisan, private, non-profit corporation to be known as the National Endowment for Democracy (NED). NED, though non-governmental, would be funded primarily through annual appropriations from the U.S. government and subject to congressional oversight. The State Department and United States Information Agency (USIA) proposed the Endowment to encourage and facilitate exchanges between democratic institutions through private sectors; promote nongovernmental participation in democratic training programs; strengthening democratic electoral processes abroad in cooperation with indigenous democratic forces; fostering cooperation between American private sector groups and those abroad \"dedicated to the cultural values, institutions, and organizations of democratic pluralism.\", and encouraging democratic development consistent with the interests of both the U.S and the other groups receiving assistance.\n\nIn 1983, the House Foreign Affairs Committee proposed legislation to provide initial funding of $31.3 million for NED as part of the State Department Authorization Act (H.R. 2915), because NED was in its beginning stages of development the appropriation was set at $18 million. Included in the legislation was $13.8 million for the Free Trade Union Institute, an affiliate of the AFL-CIO, $2.5 million for an affiliate of the National Chamber Foundation, and $5 million each for two party institutes, which was later eliminated by a vote of 267–136. The conference report on H.R. 2915 was adopted by the House on November 17, 1983 and the Senate the following day. On November 18, 1983, articles of incorporation were filed in the District of Columbia to establish the National Endowment for Democracy as a nonprofit organization.\n\nUnder the reauthorization of NED several factors were added to the organizations guidelines: the NED Act had to arrange the Board's prohibition on the use of funds for partisan political purposes, including funding for national party operations; mandate that NED consult with the State Department on any overseas programs it funds prior to the commencement of their activities; move the required date of reporting to Congress on all grants from December 31 to February 4, and lastly despite its non-governmental status, comply fully with the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act.\n\nNED is a grant-making foundation, distributing funds to private non-governmental organizations for promoting democracy abroad. Half of NED's funding is allocated annually to four main U.S. organizations: the American Center for International Labor Solidarity (ACILS), the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), the National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI), and the International Republican Institute (IRI), formerly known as the National Republican Institute for International Affairs. The other half of NED's funding is awarded annually to hundreds of non-governmental organizations based abroad which apply for support.\n\nThe Endowment has come a long way from opposition between both political parties in its earlier stages to widespread bipartisan endorsement on the Hill. Even though the American government has implemented its own democracy promoting capabilities through USAID (United States Agency for International Development), NED's independence plays a key factor in its relevance. The organization's independence lets it work in situations that official bodies may have to avoid,and its non-bureaucratic nature enables it to move quickly in rapidly changing situations. NED has influenced other nations to create their own institutions for the promotion of democracy. \n\nThe NED receives an annual appropriation from the U.S. budget (it is included in the chapter of the Department of State budget destined for the U.S. Agency for International Development-USAID) and is subject to congressional oversight even as a non-governmental organization. In the financial year to the end of September 2009 NED had an income of $135.5 million, nearly all of which came from U.S Government agencies.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1990 the NED received $15–18 million of congressional funding annually, and $25–$30m from 1991 to 1993. At the time the funding came via the United States Information Agency. In 1993 the NED nearly lost its congressional funding, after the House of Representatives initially voted to abolish its funding. The funding (of $35 million, a rise from $30 million the year before) was only retained after a vigorous campaign by NED supporters.\n\nThe NED has received funding from foundations, such as the Smith Richardson Foundation, the John M. Olin Foundation, and others. The Bradley Foundation supported the \"Journal of Democracy\" with $1.5 million during 1990–2008.\n\nNED's long-serving president (since April 30, 1984) is Carl Gershman, former Senior Counselor to the United States Representative to the United Nations and former Executive Director of Social Democrats USA.\n\nThe Endowment's bipartisan board includes government officials like former Congressmen Martin Frost and Vin Weber, former Congressman and chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee Dante B. Fascell , fFormer United States Senator William E. Brock III, former deputy assistant to George W. Bush Elliot Abrams, former Senator Norm Coleman, Congresswoman Karen Bass and Margaret Spellings, former US Secretary of Education and president of the George W. Bush Presidential Center. It also includes former Ambassadors Robert Tuttle, Zalmay Khalilzad, Stephen Sestanovich and Princeton N. Lyman, Former Secretary of State Henry Kissinger, Melanne Verveer, former Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues and current director of the Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security. In addition, positions are held by scholars of political science and international affairs, Andrew Nathan of Columbia University, author and Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, William Galston, Francis Fukuyama of FSI, George Weigel of the Ethics and Public Policy Center, Azir Nafisi of Johns Hopkins SAIS, as well as Senior associates at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Michele Dunne and Moises Naim. Other members include business leader Marilyn Nelson of Carlson, attorney Jayne M. Kurzman, union leaders James Boland, Fred Redmond, Former president of the United Federation of Teachers Albert Shankner. former President of the AFL-CIO Lane Kirklandand Vice President of Global Public Policy at Facebook, Marne Levine. The Board also includes: John Bohn, Republican political advisor, Barry Jackson, former chairman of the Republican National Committee Frank Fahrenkopf, former chairman of the Democratic National Committee Charles T. Mannatt , Progressive Policy Institute President Will Marshall, and former World Bank President Robert Zoellick.\n\nThe NED supports programs only in countries outside the United States.\n\nNED does not directly fund any political party, as this is forbidden by law. According to NED, it funds election monitoring and also civic education about voting, such as student-led \"get-out-the-vote\" campaigns.\n\nNED has also supported, provided training, and consulted with groups which approve of democracy, but criticize the United States, in countries such as Indonesia and Ukraine. The NED says that it focuses funding on democracy-minded organizations rather than opposition groups; however it does not support groups that openly advocate communism, fundamentalism, or dictatorships. Michael McFaul, in an article for the \"Washington Post\", argues that the NED is not an instrument of U.S. foreign policy. As an example of this, he states that the NED was willing to fund pro-democratic organizations even when the U.S. government was supportive of non-democratic governments in the region.\n\nAccording to \"London Progressive Journal\", The International Republican Institute (IRI) received about $1.2 million from NED in 2009 in order to support think tanks and advocacy groups to \"support initiatives to implement political positions during the campaigns in 2009\".\n\nOf the 28 Asian NGOs the NED funds, 18 are related to China. Most of these grants go to organizations promoting democracy and human rights. Democracy organizations funded by the NED that target China as a whole are Human Rights in China, the China Strategic Institute, and the Laogai Research Foundation.\n\nThe NGO 'Chinese Urgent Action Working Group' run by Swedish man Peter Dahlin also received funding from the National Endowment for Democracy. Dahlin, a Swedish citizen, was detained and interrogated for 23 days by China's Ministry of State Security. Interrogators showed him a document about the organization, complete with names of employees, associates and grant recipients. The internal report showed how the \"Chinese Urgent Action Working Group\" had received financing from NED for the last five years.\n\n\"I realized it must have come straight from N.E.D. itself somehow,\" Mr. Dahlin said in an interview with \"The New York Times\", adding that he had never seen the document before. Dahlin said, \"They appeared intent on gathering information about groups financed by the National Endowment for Democracy\".\n\nAccording to the NED's online Democracy Projects Database it has given funding the following groups for programs relating to China's Xinjiang province and its Uyghur people.\n\nTo advance the human rights of Uyghur women and children. The Foundation will maintain an English- and Uyghur-language website on the human rights situation of Uyghur women and children; conduct a civic education seminar for Uyghur women; and conduct advocacy on behalf of the human rights of Uyghurs in China.\n\nTo promote freedom of expression for writers working in the Uyghur language. The International Uyghur PEN Club will maintain a website that features banned writings and the works of persecuted poets, historians, journalists, and others, and will conduct international advocacy campaigns on behalf of imprisoned writers.\n\nTo raise awareness of Uyghur human rights issues and advance religious freedom and human rights. The UAA's Uyghur Human Rights Project will research, document and bring to international attention, independent and accurate information about human rights violations affecting the Turkic populations of the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region.\n\nTo enhance the ability of Uyghur prodemocracy groups and leaders to implement effective human rights and democracy campaigns. The World Uyghur Congress will organize a conference and training workshop for pro-democracy Uyghur youth, as well as young and mid-career professionals, on the use of new media and social networking technology for advocacy and outreach, Internet security, and innovative tactics in promoting and defending human rights.\n\nIn 2002, Mehangiz Kar, an Iranian women activist received the annual Democracy award from then-First Lady Laura Bush.\n\nAccording to the NED's online Democracy Projects Database it has given funding the following groups for programs relating to Iran (1990–2006):\n\nIranians who have served as fellows at NED include:\n\n\nNED supports a wide range of programs in Ecuador including the Asociación de Mujeres Municipalistas del Ecuador (AMUME) which \"advocates on behalf of women elected officials during legislative reform efforts by facilitating debate, analysis and women's participation,\" and Asylum Access which provides legal support for refugee communities.\n\nIn 2004, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez publicized documents which purported to show that the NED funded civil associations in the country, including a tripling of funding from about $250,000 to nearly $900,000 between 2000 and 2001. As of July, 2010, the NED is accused of funding several journalists in Venezuela who work for opposition media outlets.\n\nThe National Endowment for Democracy, on their Venezuela page indicate that the National Endowment for Democracy spent $1,752,300 on grants for the following programs in Venezuela (with specific areas indicated) in 2013: Accountability, Civic Education, Democratic Ideas and Values, Developing Market Economy, Freedom of Association, Freedom of Information, Human Rights, Political Processes, Rule of Law, Strengthening Political Institutions.\n\nNED also funded political groups in the democracies of Western Europe in the 1980s. The French newspaper \"Libération\" published a report which claimed that the U.S. funded the National Inter-University Union.\n\nMore recently, the NED has provided funding to the French NGO Reporters Without Borders (RSF), which promotes freedom of press, particularly in Cuba.\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, NED invested millions of dollars in Eastern Europe.\n\nIn their 2012 report, NED indicated that it spent US$3,381,824 on programs in the Ukraine, encompassing the areas NGO Strengthening, Political Processes, Human Rights, Accountability, Developing Market Economy, Freedom of Information, Democratic Ideas and Values, Promoting Freedom of Assembly, Strengthening Political Institutions, and Monitoring Electoral Processes.\n\nNED was banned in Russia as an undesirable international NGO in July 2015 for \"using Russian commercial and noncommercial organisations under its control... to declare the results of election campaigns illegitimate, organise political actions intended to influence decisions made by the authorities, and discredit service in Russia's armed forces.\"\n\n\nThe Democracy Award is given annually by the National Endowment for Democracy's Board of Directors to recognize \"the courageous and creative work of individuals and organizations that have advanced the cause of human rights and democracy around the world.\" The trophy is a small-scale replica of the Goddess of Democracy that was constructed in Tiananmen Square in Beijing, China during the student movement for freedom and democracy in 1989.\n\nNotable recipients include: Nobel Peace Prize laureate Liu Xiaobo, former President of Mexico Vicente Fox, and journalist Veton Surroi. Past speakers at the award's ceremony have included U.S. Senator John McCain, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi.\n\nOne criticism of the organization includes a lack of openness and public accountability in its stewardship of millions of dollars a year in taxpayer funds in the year 1985. Libertarian congressman Ron Paul also argued against NED funding in 2005 stating that NED has \"very little to do with democracy. It is an organization that uses US tax money to actually subvert democracy, by showering funding on favored political parties or movements overseas. It underwrites color-coded 'people's revolutions' overseas that look more like pages out of Lenin's writings on stealing power than genuine indigenous democratic movements.\" \n\nInvestigative reporter and editor of \"Consortiumnews\" Robert Parry has characterized NED as a \"neocon slush fund,\" whose founding was the brainchild of Reagan Administration CIA Director William Casey and its leading propagandist Walter Raymond Jr., then on the staff of the National Security Council. The idea was to set up an organization funded by the U.S. Congress to take over CIA programs that attempted to influence foreign elections by promoting the selection of candidates who supported U.S. policy and would \"do what the U.S. government tells them to do.\"\n\nThe libertarian think tank Cato Institute criticized money spent in France in the 1980s saying that:\n\nFrench democracy in the 1980s did not appear to be so fragile that it required financial assistance from American taxpayers to sustain itself. The government of François Mitterrand was duly elected within a democratic system nearly as old as America's. The AFL-CIO, however, determined that France's socialist government was permitting a dangerous rise of communist influence. According to the late Irving Brown, Paris-based director of international relations for the AFL-CIO at the time of the incident: \"France . . . is threatened by the Communist apparatus. . . . It is a clear and present danger if the present is thought of as 10 years from now.\" That mentality has resulted in AFL-CIO support for highly controversial causes. One of the French groups that received funding, the National Inter-University Union, was widely viewed as a cauldron of rightist extremism and xenophobia and rumored also to have ties to terrorists.\n\nCIMA works to improve the development of independent media worldwide while working to strengthen the support for such development. The center works to improve the effectiveness of existing media development efforts by conducting research, building networks and bringing together a broad range of experts to share their experiences. CIMA's mission is based on the conviction that free and independent media play an indispensable role in developing sustainable democracies around the world.\n\nIn 2006, CIMA was founded as an initiative of the National Endowment for Democracy with encouragement from Congress and a grant from the State Department's Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.\n\nCIMA's reports provide a knowledge base on a variety of topics in media assistance. The goal of these reports is to provide policymakers, as well as donors and practitioners, with practical information on the importance of free media to the development of a society. These reports fall into three basic categories: research reports, working group reports, and event reports.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4951659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4951659", "title": "National Socialist Women's League", "text": "National Socialist Women's League\n\nThe National Socialist Women's League (German: \"Nationalsozialistische Frauenschaft\", abbreviated \"NS-Frauenschaft\") was the women's wing of the Nazi Party. It was founded in October 1931 as a fusion of several nationalist and National Socialist women's associations.\n\nThe \"Frauenschaft\" was subordinated to the national party leadership (\"Reichsleitung\"); girls and young women were the purview of the \"Bund Deutscher Mädel\" (BDM). From February 1934 to the end of World War II in 1945, the \"NS-Frauenschaft\" was led by Reich's Women's Leader (\"Reichsfrauenführerin\") Gertrud Scholtz-Klink (1902–1999). It put out a biweekly magazine, the \"NS-Frauen-Warte\".\n\nIts activities included instruction in the use of German-manufactured products, such as butter and rayon, in place of imported ones, as part of the self-sufficiency program, and classes for brides and schoolgirls. During wartime, it also provided refreshments at train stations, collected scrap metal and other materials, ran cookery and other classes, and allocated the domestic servants conscripted in the east to large families. Propaganda organizations depended on it as the primary spreader of propaganda to women.\n\nThe \"NS-Frauenschaft\" reached a total membership of 2 million by 1938, the equivalent of 40% of the total party membership.\n\nThe German National Socialist Women's League Children's Group was known as \"Kinderschar\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33619689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33619689", "title": "Option nationale", "text": "Option nationale\n\nOption nationale, registered as Option nationale – Pour l'indépendance du Québec (National Option – For the Independence of Quebec), was a centre-left and left-wing nationalist political party in Quebec, Canada. It advocated for the sovereignty of Quebec from Canada, and said a vote for Option nationale is an electoral mandate for full-fledged autonomy (\"de facto\" sovereignty), before holding a referendum to adopt the constitution of Quebec as an independent state (\"de jure\" sovereignty). It merged with Québec solidaire on January 1, 2018 to become a collective within the party.\n\nIt was founded in 2011 by Jean-Martin Aussant, a member of the National Assembly (MNA) who had quit the Parti Québécois (PQ) earlier that year after being elected in 2008.\n\nThe party had planned to use the name \"Option Québec\", as a nod to René Lévesque's 1968 manifesto \"An Option for Quebec\", but it was already taken by another group.\n\nIn August 2011, before the party was founded, Aussant was courted by the Parti Indépendantiste, with leader Eric Tremblay hoping to have his first member of the National Assembly. Aussant refused however, saying he disagreed with the party's position on reducing immigration, and with the view of the party that the 1995 referendum was lost because of \"anglophone and ethnic votes\". Aussant insists that economic fears propagated by federalists were responsible for the referendum defeat.\n\nShortly after the creation of Option nationale, Lisette Lapointe, wife of former Quebec Premier Jacques Parizeau, acquired a membership card from the party, but decided to continue sitting as an independent until the end of her term, and did not run for reelection in the 2012 provincial election.\n\nDuring the campaign of the 2012 general election, columnist Dan Delmar of the \"National Post\" commented:\n\nOn June 19, 2013, Jean-Martin Aussant resigned as leader of Option nationale, and Nathaly Dufour became interim leader. On October 26, 2013, Sol Zanetti became the new leader of Option nationale.\n\nIt merged with Québec solidaire on January 1, 2018 to become a collective within the party.\n\n"}
{"id": "52169845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52169845", "title": "Ordinarily resident status", "text": "Ordinarily resident status\n\nOrdinarily resident status is a concept in the law of the United Kingdom which affects entitlement to the National Health Service. It formerly affected taxation, but the concept of ordinary residence was abolished for the purposes of tax years 2013/14 onwards. \n\nIndefinite leave to remain and Right of abode are related concepts in immigration law. A person who is a British Citizen is not necessarily an ordinary resident in the UK.\n\nThe official guidance issued to the NHS states: \"A person is ordinarily resident if they are normally residing in the UK (apart from temporary or occasional absences), and their residence here has been adopted voluntarily and for settled purposes as part of the regular order of their life for the time being, whether for short or long duration.\" \n\nThe Guidance on implementing the overseas visitor hospital charging regulations 2015 extends to 131 pages, with a further 12 pages of guidance on \"Ways in which people can be lawfully resident in the UK\". It is intended to assist NHS bodies in carrying out their duties under the regulations to make and recover charges for NHS hospital treatment from chargeable overseas visitors.\n\nHM Revenue and Customs issued guidance (booklet HMRC 6) in respect of taxation which included reference to renting, leasing or buying property. This is not mentioned in the NHS guidance.\n\nThe concept is also embedded in the National Health Service (Charges to Overseas Visitors) (Scotland) Regulations 1989.\n\n\"Ordinarily resident\" has not been defined by Act of Parliament. It has been developed in caselaw. The leading case is R V. Barnet London Borough Council, Ex parte Nilish Shah, which was decided by the House of Lords in 1982. The case was concerned with the meaning of ‘ordinary residence’ as used in the Education Acts. The five appellants were all students who had come to the UK to study. None of them had the right of abode in the United Kingdom. It established these principles:\n\nOrdinary residence is established if there is a regular habitual mode of life in a particular place \"for the time being\", \"whether of short of short or long duration\", the continuity of which has persisted apart from temporary or occasional absences. The residence must be voluntary and adopted for \"a settled purpose\".\n\nA person can be ordinarily resident in more than one country at the same time. This is not the case in respect of domicile.\n\nOrdinary residence is proven more by evidence of matters capable of objective proof than by evidence as to state of mind.\n\nIn October 2016 it was reported that the government had set a target of recovering £500 million a year from overseas visitors treated in NHS hospitals in England, which had been \"refined\" to £346m for 2017-18, according to the National Audit Office. £289m was collected in 2015-16 and £73m in 2012-13. The NAO reported that only 58% of hospital doctors knew some people were chargeable for NHS healthcare at all. According to Joseph Meirion Thomas, a former cancer specialist at the Royal Marsden Hospital failure to enforce the charging regulations is costing the British taxpayer £3 billion a year.\n\nSee Immigration health surcharge.\n"}
{"id": "170175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170175", "title": "Parabolic microphone", "text": "Parabolic microphone\n\nA parabolic microphone is a microphone that uses a parabolic reflector to collect and focus sound waves onto a transducer, in much the same way that a parabolic antenna (e.g., satellite dish) does with radio waves. Parabolic microphones have great sensitivity to sounds in one direction, along the axis of the dish, and can pick up distant sounds. Typical uses of this microphone include nature sound recording such as recording bird calls, field audio for sports broadcasting, and eavesdropping on conversations, for example in espionage and law enforcement. Parabolic microphones were used in many parts of the world as early as World War II, especially by the Japanese.\n\nParabolic microphones are generally not used for high fidelity applications because dishes small enough to be portable have poor low frequency response. This is because, from the Rayleigh criterion, parabolic dishes can only focus waves with a wavelength much smaller than the diameter of their aperture. The wavelength of sound waves at the low end of human hearing (20 Hz) is about ; focusing them would require a dish much larger than this. A typical parabolic microphone dish with a diameter of one metre has little directivity for sound waves longer than 30 cm, corresponding to frequencies below 1 kHz. For higher frequencies, a gain of about 15 dB can be expected, however, when the wavelength of the sound becomes comparable with the diameter of the parabolic dish the response falls away.\n\nA shotgun microphone, or a phased array of microphones, may be used as an alternative for applications requiring directional selectivity with high fidelity.\n\n"}
{"id": "11037938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11037938", "title": "Pluralism in economics", "text": "Pluralism in economics\n\nThe pluralism in economics movement is a campaign to change the teaching and research in economics towards more openness in its approaches, topics and standpoints it considers. The goal of the movement is to \"...reinvigorate the discipline ... [and bring] economics back into the service of society\". Some have argued that economics had greater scientific pluralism in the past compared to the monist approach that is prevalent today. Pluralism encourages the inclusion of a wide variety of neoclassical and heterodox economic theories—including classical, Post-Keynesian, institutional, ecological, evolutionary, feminist, Marxist, and Austrian economics, stating that \"each tradition of thought adds something unique and valuable to economic scholarship\".\n\nCritics of mainstream economics have called for a reform of the discipline in the past. The movement for pluralism can therefore be traced to wider movements for progressive change in the 1960s and 1970s, with economists like Frank Stilwell and Steve Keen campaigning for pluralist and critical economics teaching at the University of Sydney in 1971. In 1992, a petition organised by Geoffrey Hodgson, Uskali Mäki, and Deirdre McCloskey was published as a paid advertisement in \"The American Economic Review\". The petition described itself as a \"plea for a pluralistic and rigorous economics\" and was preceded by a commission of the American Economic Association entitled \"Report by the Commission on Graduate Education\". In 2000, students at the École Normale Supérieure protested and announced the creation of the post-autistic economics movement. Similarly, students at the University of Cambridge and University of Missouri-Kansas City organised petitions in 2001 and in 2011 the Cambridge Society for Economic Pluralism was formed to promote pluralist thinking and pushing for curriculum reform within the university. In 2009, the Foundation for European Economic Development (FEED) organised a plea for economic pluralism with over 2,000 signatures in the first month. In addition, the first Volume of the \"International Journal of Pluralism and Economics Education\" was founded and published along with the \"Handbook for Pluralist Economics Education\". \n\nEconomists Paul Krugman and Richard Layard organised a \"Manifesto For Economic Sense\" in 2012. The \"Post-Crash Economics Society Manchester\" published a petition in November 2013 and was involved in setting up Rethinking Economics. They also devised a course entitled \"Bubbles, Panics and Crashes: an Introduction to Alternative Theories of Crisis\", which the economic department rejected. Student groups in the United Kingdom published a draft manifesto in April 2014. On May 5, 2014, economics students from nineteen countries published an international student letter and formed the International Student Initiative for Pluralist Economics. The students called for pluralism of theories and methods to provide economics students with an understanding of the broader social and moral implications of economic decisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "30889386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30889386", "title": "Reception of WikiLeaks", "text": "Reception of WikiLeaks\n\nThe whistleblowing website WikiLeaks has received praise as well as criticism. The organisation has won a number of awards, including \"The Economist's\" New Media Award in 2008 at the Index on Censorship Awards and Amnesty International's UK Media Award in 2009. In 2010, the New York \"Daily News\" listed WikiLeaks first among websites \"that could totally change the news\", and Julian Assange received the Sam Adams Award and was named the Readers' Choice for \"TIME's Person of the Year\" in 2010. The UK Information Commissioner has stated that \"WikiLeaks is part of the phenomenon of the online, empowered citizen\". In its first days, an Internet petition calling for the cessation of extrajudicial intimidation of WikiLeaks attracted over six hundred thousand signatures. Supporters of WikiLeaks in the media and academia have commended it for exposing state and corporate secrets, increasing transparency, supporting freedom of the press, and enhancing democratic discourse while challenging powerful institutions.\n\nAt the same time, several U.S. government officials have criticized WikiLeaks for exposing classified information and claimed that the leaks harm national security and compromise international diplomacy. From the perspective of the U.S. security establishment, the issue of concern is not only the publication of sensitive information but also, at a deeper level, the anonymity afforded by the internet. Several human rights organisations requested with respect to earlier document releases that WikiLeaks adequately redact the names of civilians working with international forces, in order to prevent repercussions. Some journalists have likewise criticised a perceived lack of editorial discretion when releasing thousands of documents at once and without sufficient analysis. In response to some of the negative reaction, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has expressed her concern over the \"cyber war\" against WikiLeaks, and in a joint statement with the Organization of American States the UN Special Rapporteur has called on states and other actors to keep international legal principles in mind.\n\nOn 16 March 2009, the Australian Communications and Media Authority added WikiLeaks to their proposed list of sites that will be blocked for all Australians if the mandatory internet filtering scheme is implemented as planned. The blacklisting had been removed by 29 November 2010.\n\nOn 2 December 2010, Prime Minister Julia Gillard made a statement that she 'absolutely condemns' WikiLeaks' actions and that the release of information on the site was 'grossly irresponsible' and 'illegal.' WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange is Australian and he responded two days later by accusing his prime minister of betraying him as an Australian citizen. However, on 8 December 2010 – after WikiLeaks published U.S. diplomatic cables in which United States diplomats labelled him a \"control freak\", former Australian Prime Minister and Foreign Minister (now resigned) Kevin Rudd said the leak of the US secret cables raised questions about US security. Rudd said, \"The core responsibility, and therefore legal liability, goes to those individuals responsible for that initial unauthorised release.\" In an article in The Australian, Assange claimed, \"The Australian attorney-general is doing everything he can to help a US investigation clearly directed at framing Australian citizens and shipping them to the US.\" However, Australian officials later said that Assange has done nothing illegal. Since then, representatives of the Australian Federal Government and the major opposition including Craig Emerson the Minister for Trade have come out in support of WikiLeaks and against some violent rhetoric directed against them, stating; \"We condemn absolutely the threats that have been made by some people in the United States against Julian Assange.\"\n\nPresident Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva expressed his \"solidarity\" with Julian Assange following Assange's 2010 arrest in the United Kingdom. Lula went on to state – in reference to WikiLeaks disclosure of classified US diplomatic cables in November and December 2010 – WikiLeaks had \"exposed a diplomacy that had appeared unreachable.\" He further criticised the arrest of Julian Assange as \"an attack on freedom of expression\".\n\nThe WikiLeaks website claims that the government of the People's Republic of China has attempted to block all traffic to websites with \"wikileaks\" in the URL since 2007, but that this can be bypassed by encrypted connections or by using one of WikiLeaks' many covert URLs.\n\nIn late November 2010, a representative of the government of Ecuador made what was, apparently, an unsolicited public offer to Julian Assange to establish residency in Ecuador. Deputy Foreign Minister Kinto Lucas stated \"we are going to invite him to come to Ecuador so he can freely present the information he possesses and all the documentation, not just on the Internet, but in various public forums.\" Lucas went on to state his praise for WikiLeaks and Assange calling them \"[people] who are constantly investigating and trying to get light out of the dark corners of [state] information.\" The following day, however, president Rafael Correa distanced his administration from the offer stating that Lucas had been speaking for himself and not on the government's behalf. Correa then criticised Assange for \"breaking the laws of the United States and leaking this type of information.\"\n\nThe French Industry Minister Éric Besson said in a letter to the CGIET technology agency, WikiLeaks \"violates the secret of diplomatic relations and puts people protected by diplomatic secret in danger.\" Therefore, it would be 'unacceptable' that the site was hosted on servers based in France. The minister asked for measures to bar WikiLeaks from France.\n\nThe home of Theodor Reppe, registrant of the German WikiLeaks domain name, wikileaks.de, was raided on 24 March 2009 after WikiLeaks released the Australian Communications and Media Authority (ACMA) censorship blacklist. The site was not affected.\n\nAfter the release of the 2007 Baghdad airstrikes video and as they prepared to release film of the Granai airstrike, Julian Assange has said that his group of volunteers came under intense surveillance. In an interview and Twitter posts he said that a restaurant in Reykjavík where his group of volunteers met came under surveillance in March; that there was \"covert following and hidden photography\" by police and foreign intelligence services; that an apparent British intelligence agent made thinly veiled threats in a Luxembourg car park; and that one of the volunteers was detained by police for 21 hours. Another volunteer posted that computers were seized, saying \"If anything happens to us, you know why... and you know who is responsible.\" According to the \"Columbia Journalism Review\", \"the Icelandic press took a look at Assange's charges of being surveilled in Iceland [...] and, at best, have found nothing to substantiate them.\"\n\nIn August 2009, Kaupthing Bank secured a court order preventing Iceland's national broadcaster, RÚV, from broadcasting a risk analysis report showing the bank's substantial exposure to debt default risk. This information had been leaked to WikiLeaks and remained available on the WikiLeaks website; faced with an injunction minutes before broadcast, the channel aired a screen-shot of the WikiLeaks site instead of the scheduled piece on the bank. Citizens of Iceland were reported to be outraged that RÚV was prevented from broadcasting news of relevance. Therefore, WikiLeaks has been credited with inspiring the Icelandic Modern Media Initiative, a bill meant to reclaim Iceland's 2007 \"Reporters Without Borders (Reporters sans frontières)\" ranking as first in the world for free speech. It aims to enact a range of protections for sources, journalists, and publishers. Birgitta Jónsdóttir, a former WikiLeaks volunteer and member of the Icelandic parliament, is the chief sponsor of the proposal.\n\nIn identical statements to both Houses of Parliament on 18 March 2011, then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh rejected all allegations against his government revealed by the United States diplomatic cables leak, including allegations of bribery during the 2008 Lok Sabha vote of confidence. Singh told Parliament, \"The Government of India cannot confirm the veracity, contents or even the existence of such communications. I may point out that many of the persons referred to in those reports have stoutly denied the veracity of the contents. An issue was raised that the offence of bribery was committed in India. Government rejects that allegation absolutely and firmly.\"\n\nIn an interview with Times Now, Julian Assange labelled the Indian government's response as \"one of the worst in the world\" and a \"clear attempt to mislead the nation on what the cables were\". Assange stated, \"The response by the government left a lot to be desired. Before it was clear to me that Prime Minister Mr. Singh was deliberately attempting to mislead the Indian people on what type of material this was. People tell me that he is not personally corrupt, I do not know myself as I don't have information on that. But, his reaction left a lot to be desired. It wasn't to fully and frankly investigate what was going on and then provide finding to the parliament. Rather, it was attempt to spin the issue and I suspect that has come from experience in dealing with similar scandals in the past.\"\n\nThe President of Iran, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, also criticised WikiLeaks following the release of United States diplomatic cables. Ahmadinejad claimed that the release of cables purporting to show concern with Iran by Arab states was a planned leak by the United States to discredit his government, though he did not indicate whether he believed WikiLeaks was in collusion with the United States or was simply an unwitting facilitator.\n\nMuammar Gaddafi blamed WikiLeaks for the Tunisian revolution \"[Do not be fooled by] WikiLeaks which publishes information written by lying ambassadors in order to create chaos.\"\n\nPresident Benigno Aquino III condemned WikiLeaks and leaked documents related to the country, saying that it can lead to massive cases of miscommunication.\n\nIn December 2010, the office of the Russian president Dmitry Medvedev issued a statement calling on non-governmental organisations to consider \"nominating [Julian] Assange as a Nobel Prize laureate.\" The announcement followed commentary by Russian ambassador to NATO Dmitry Rogozin who stated that Julian Assange's earlier arrest on Swedish charges demonstrated that there was \"no media freedom\" in the west.\n\nThe Centre for the Resolution of the Emergency Situation (CRES) is currently censoring the WikiLeaks website in Thailand and more than 40,000 other websites because of the emergency decree declared in Thailand at the beginning of April 2010 as a result of political instabilities.\n\nThe Turkish government blocked access to Wikileaks on July 20, 2016 after it released nearly 300,000 emails involving the ruling Justice and Development Party. The email releases were in response to the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt.\n\nHugo Chávez, president of Venezuela, stated his support for WikiLeaks following the release of US diplomatic cables in November 2010 that showed the United States had tried to rally support from regional governments to isolate Venezuela. \"I have to congratulate the people of WikiLeaks for their bravery and courage,\" Chávez commented in televised remarks.\n\nIn December 2010 United Nations Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Opinion and Expression Frank LaRue stated he agreed with the idea that Julian Assange was a \"martyr for free speech.\" LaRue went on to say Assange or other WikiLeaks staff should not face legal accountability for any information they disseminated, noting that, \"if there is a responsibility by leaking information it is of, exclusively of the person that made the leak and not of the media that publish it. And this is the way that transparency works and that corruption has been confronted in many cases.\" High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navi Pillay, subsequently voiced concern at the revelation that private companies were being pressured by states to sever their relationships with WikiLeaks.\n\nOn 17 July 2010, Jacob Appelbaum spoke on behalf of WikiLeaks at the Hackers on Planet Earth conference in New York City, replacing Assange because of the presence of federal agents at the conference. He announced that the WikiLeaks submission system was again operating, after it had been suspended temporarily. Assange was a surprise speaker at a TED conference on 19 July 2010 in Oxford, England, and confirmed that the site had begun accepting submissions again.\n\nUpon returning to the US from the Netherlands, on 29 July, Appelbaum was detained for three hours at the airport by US agents, according to anonymous sources. The sources told \"CNET\" that Appelbaum's bag was searched, receipts from his bag were photocopied, and his laptop computer was inspected, although in what manner was unknown. Appelbaum reportedly refused to answer questions without a lawyer present, and was not allowed to make a telephone call. His three mobile telephones were reportedly taken and not returned. On 31 July, he spoke at a Defcon conference and mentioned his telephone being \"seized\". After speaking, he was approached by two FBI agents and questioned.\n\nAccess to WikiLeaks is currently blocked in the United States Library of Congress. On 3 December 2010 the White House Office of Management and Budget sent a memorandum forbidding all unauthorised federal government employees and contractors from accessing classified documents publicly available on WikiLeaks and other websites. The U.S. Army, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Justice Department are considering criminally prosecuting WikiLeaks and Assange \"on grounds they encouraged the theft of government property\", although former prosecutors say doing so would be difficult. According to a report on the website Daily Beast, the Obama administration asked the UK, Germany, and Australia among others to also consider bringing criminal charges against Assange for the Afghan war leaks and to help limit Assange's travels across international borders. Columbia University students have been warned by their Office of Career Services that the U.S. State Department had contacted the office in an email saying that the diplomatic cables which were released by WikiLeaks were \"still considered classified\" and that \"online discourse about the documents 'would call into question your ability to deal with confidential information'\".\n\nAll U.S. federal government staff have been blocked from viewing WikiLeaks.\n\nAs for individual responses, government officials had mixed feelings. Although Hillary Clinton refused to comment on specific reports, she claimed that the leaks \"put people's lives in danger\" and \"threatens national security\". Former United States Secretary of Defense Robert Gates commented, \"Is this embarrassing? Yes. Is it awkward? Yes. Consequences for U.S. foreign policy? I think fairly modest.\"\n\nFollowing the November 2010 release of United States diplomatic cables, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton denounced the group saying, \"this disclosure is not just an attack on America's foreign policy interests, it is an attack on the international community.\" Peter King, chairman of the Homeland Security Committee of the United States House of Representatives has stated his support of Clinton's position for listing WikiLeaks as a \"foreign terrorist organisation\" explaining that \"WikiLeaks presents a clear and present danger to the national security of the United States.\" In a contrary statement, secretary of Defense Robert Gates has said that concerns about the disclosures were \"over-wrought\" in terms of their likely adverse impact on ordinary diplomatic activities. Philip J. Crowley, United States Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs, stated on 2 December 2010 that the US State Department does not regard WikiLeaks as a media organisation. \"WikiLeaks is not a media organisation. That is our view.\" Crowley said and with regard to Assange;\"Well, his – I mean he could be considered a political actor. I think he's an anarchist, but he's not a journalist.\"\nUS Senator Joe Lieberman called on Amazon.com to shut down a WikiLeaks web-site, praised the company for doing so, and called for other companies to follow suit. He also proposed new legislation targeting similar cases – Securing Human Intelligence and Enforcing Lawful Dissemination Act (SHIELD Act). Lieberman later said that also \"The New York Times\" and other news organisations publishing the US embassy cables being released by WikiLeaks could be investigated for breaking US espionage laws. After these statements the US Ambassador to Australia assured the Australian government and people that \"The concerns we have do not centre on Julian Assange and they never should have\"\n\nU.S. Secretary of State and former CIA Director Mike Pompeo has held mixed views on WikiLeaks, citing leaked e-mails from Hillary Clinton, campaign chair John Podesta, and former Democratic National Committee chairperson Debbie Wasserman Schultz even using his Twitter as a platform to call attention to the \"newly released emails of Hillary Clinton and her cronies,\" before a FOX appearance on the same topic. In April 2017, as CIA Director Mike Pompeo called WikiLeaks \"a non-state hostile intelligence service often abetted by state actors like Russia.\"\nIn April 2017, AG Jeff Sessions stated that arresting Julian Assange of Wikileaks was a priority: \"We have professionals that have been in the security business of the United States for many years that are shocked by the number of leaks and some of them are quite serious. So yes, it is a priority. We've already begun to step up our efforts and whenever a case can be made, we will seek to put some people in jail.\"\n\nChinese journalist Shi Tao was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment, in 2005 after publicising an email from Chinese officials about the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre. An article in \"The New Yorker\" said:\n\nAssange responded to the suggestion that eavesdropping on Chinese hackers played a crucial part in the early days of WikiLeaks by saying \"the imputation is incorrect. The facts concern a 2006 investigation into Chinese espionage one of our contacts was involved in. Somewhere between none and handful of those documents were ever released on WikiLeaks. Non-government targets of the Chinese espionage, such as Tibetan associations were informed (by us)\".\n\nRussian investigative reporter Andrei Soldatov has criticised WikiLeaks for disclosing documents \"without checking of the facts, without putting them in context, and without analysing them.\" Soldatov believes WikiLeaks is \"filling the gap\" left by the decline of investigative journalism with a sensationalist alternative while journalistic support of WikiLeaks is motivated by anger over declining funding and resources for investigative reporting.\n\nAccording to \"The Times\" (London), WikiLeaks and its members have complained about continuing harassment and surveillance by law enforcement and intelligence organisations, including extended detention, seizure of computers, veiled threats, \"covert following and hidden photography.\" Two lawyers for Julian Assange in the United Kingdom told \"The Guardian\" that they believed they were being watched by the security services after the U.S. cables leak, which started on 28 November 2010.\n\nFurthermore, several companies ended association with WikiLeaks. After providing 24-hour notification, American-owned EveryDNS deleted WikiLeaks from its entries on 2 December 2010, citing DDoS attacks that \"threatened the stability of its infrastructure\". The website's 'info' DNS lookup remained operational at alternative addresses for direct access respectively to the WikiLeaks and Cablegate websites. On the same day, Amazon.com severed its association with WikiLeaks, to which it was providing infrastructure services, after an intervention by an aide of U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman. Amazon denied acting under political pressure, citing a violation of its terms of service. Citing indirect pressure from the U.S. Government, Tableau Software also deleted WikiLeaks' data from its website for people to use for data visualisation.\n\nDuring the days following, hundreds of (and eventually more than a thousand) mirror websites of the WikiLeaks website were established, and the Anonymous group of Internet activists asked sympathizers to attack the websites of companies which opposed WikiLeaks, under the banner of Operation Payback, previously directed at anti-piracy organisations. AFP reported that attempts to deactivate the wikileaks.org address had resulted in the website surviving via the so-called Streisand effect, whereby attempts to censor information online causes it to be replicated in many places.\n\nOn 3 December, PayPal, the payment processor owned by eBay, permanently ended the account of the Wau Holland Foundation that had been redirecting donations to WikiLeaks. PayPal alleged that the account violated its \"Acceptable Use Policy\", specifically that the account was used for \"activities that encourage, promote, facilitate or instruct others to engage in illegal activity.\" The Vice President of PayPal stated later that they stopped accepting payments after the \"State Department told us these were illegal activities. It was straightforward.\" Later the same day, he said that his previous statement was incorrect, and that it was in fact based on a letter from the State Department to WikiLeaks. On 8 December 2010, the Wau Holland Foundation released a press statement, saying it has filed a legal action against PayPal for blocking its account used for WikiLeaks payments and for libel due to PayPal's allegations of \"illegal activity\".\n\nOn 6 December, the Swiss bank PostFinance announced that it had frozen the assets of Assange that it holds, totalling €31,000. In a statement on its website, it stated that this was because Assange \"provided false information regarding his place of residence\" when opening the account. WikiLeaks released a statement saying this was because Assange, \"as a homeless refugee attempting to gain residency in Switzerland, had used his lawyer's address in Geneva for the bank's correspondence\".\n\nOn the same day, MasterCard announced that it was \"taking action to ensure that WikiLeaks can no longer accept MasterCard-branded products\", adding \"MasterCard rules prohibit customers from directly or indirectly engaging in or facilitating any action that is illegal.\" The next day, Visa Inc. announced it was suspending payments to WikiLeaks, pending \"further investigations\". In a move of support for WikiLeaks, the organization XIPWIRE established a way to donate to WikiLeaks, and waived their fees. Datacell, the Iceland-based IT company controlled by Swiss investors that enabled WikiLeaks to accept credit card donations, announced that it would take legal action against Visa Europe and MasterCard, in order to resume allowing payments to the website.\n\nOn 7 December 2010, \"The Guardian\" stated that people could donate to WikiLeaks via Commerzbank in Kassel, Germany, or Landsbanki in Iceland, or by post to a post office box at the University of Melbourne or at the wikileaks.ch domain.\n\nThe UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay stated that Visa, MasterCard, and Amazon may be \"violating WikiLeaks' right to freedom of expression\" by withdrawing their services.\n\nOn 21 December, media reported that Apple Inc. had removed an application from its App Store, which provided access to the embassy cable leaks.\n\nAs part of its 'Initial Assessments Pursuant to... WikiLeaks', the US Presidential Executive Office has issued a memorandum to the heads of Executive Departments and Agencies asking whether they have an 'insider threat program'.\n\nOn 14 July 2011, WikiLeaks and DataCell ehf. of Iceland filed a complaint against the international card companies, VISA Europe and MasterCard Europe, for infringement of the antitrust rules of the EU, in response to their withdrawal of financial services to the organisation. In a joint press release, the organisations stated: \"The closure by VISA Europe and MasterCard of Datcell's access to the payment card networks in order to stop donations to WikiLeaks violates the competition rules of the European Community.\" DataCell filed a complaint with the European Commission on 14 July 2011.\n\nSince the publications of CableGate, WikiLeaks has experienced an unprecedented global financial blockade by major finance companies including MasterCard, Visa and PayPal although there has been no legal accusation of any wrongdoing.\n\nIn October 2010, it was reported that the organization Moneybookers, which collected donations for WikiLeaks, had ended its relationship with the website. Moneybookers stated that its decision had been made \"to comply with money laundering or other investigations conducted by government authorities, agencies or commissions.\"\n\nOn 18 December 2010, Bank of America announced it would \"not process transactions of any type that we have reason to believe are intended for Wikileaks,\" citing \"Wikileaks might be engaged in activities... inconsistent with our internal policies for processing payments\". WikiLeaks responded in a tweet by encouraging their sympathizers who were BoA customers to close their accounts. Bank of America has long been believed to be the target of WikiLeaks' next major release.\n\nLate in 2010, Bank of America communicated with the law company Hunton & Williams to stop WikiLeaks. Hunton & Williams assembled a group of security specialists, HBGary Federal, Palantir Technologies, and Berico Technologies.\n\nDuring 5 and 6 February 2011, the group Anonymous hacked HBGary's website, copied tens of thousands of documents from HBGary, posted tens of thousands of company emails online, and usurped Barr's Twitter account in revenge. Some of the documents taken by Anonymous show HBGary Federal was working on behalf of Bank of America to respond to WikiLeaks' planned release of the bank's internal documents. Emails detailed a supposed business proposal by HBGary to assist Bank of America's law company, Hunton & Williams, and revealed that the companies were willing to violate the law to damage WikiLeaks and Anonymous.\n\nIn October 2011, Julian Assange said the financial blockade had destroyed 95% of WikiLeaks' revenues and announced that it was suspending publishing operations in order to concentrate on fighting the blockade and raising new funds.\n\nOn 18 July 2012, WikiLeaks, shunned by the financial industry and almost insolvent, announced that it had found a new method to accept donations. Accordingly, the Fund for the Defense of Net Neutrality (FDNN) had agreed to channel contributions via Carte Bleue, and WikiLeaks claimed that contractual obligation would prevent Visa and MasterCard blocking participation with such transactions.\n\nOn 24 January 2014, WikiLeaks announced via Twitter that the majority of its donations came from (the cryptocurrencies) Litecoin and Bitcoin. WikiLeaks massive returns from early investment into Bitcoin cryptocurrency has helped the organisation to survive various legal and financial hardships.\n\nIn December 2017, after five years of processing donations on behalf of WikiLeaks, Freedom of the Press Foundation's board unanimously found that the financial blockade of WikiLeaks by major payment processors was no longer in effect, and severed ties with WikiLeaks as of January 8, 2018.\n\nIn July 2010 Veterans for Peace president Mike Ferner editorialised on the group's website \"neither Wikileaks nor the soldier or soldiers who divulged the documents should be prosecuted for revealing this information. We should give them a medal.\"\n\nDocumentary filmmaker John Pilger wrote an August 2010 editorial in the Australian publication \"Green Left\" titled \"Wikileaks must be defended.\" In it, Pilger said WikiLeaks represented the interests of \"public accountability\" and a new form of journalism at odds with \"the dominant section ... devoted merely to taking down what cynical and malign power tells it.\"\n\nDaniel Ellsberg, the man who released the Pentagon Papers in 1971, has been a frequent defender of WikiLeaks. Following the November 2010 release of U.S. diplomatic cables, Ellsberg rejected criticism that the site was endangering the lives of U.S. military personnel and intelligence assets stating \"not one single soldier or informant has been in danger from any of the WikiLeaks releases. That risk has been largely overblown.\" Ellsberg went on to note that government claims to the contrary were \"a script that they roll out every time there's a leak of any sort.\" Following the US diplomatic cable release, which a number of media reports sought to differentiate from Ellsberg's whistleblowing, Ellsberg claimed, \"EVERY attack now made on WikiLeaks and Julian Assange was made against me and the release of the Pentagon Papers at the time.\"\n\nOn 3 December 2010 Republican Congressman of Texas, Ron Paul, spoke out publicly during a Fox Business interview in support of WikiLeaks founder, Julian Assange; \"In a free society we're supposed to know the truth,\" Paul said. \"In a society where truth becomes treason, then we're in big trouble.\" Paul went on to state, \"Why don't we prosecute \"The New York Times\" or anybody that releases this?\" In another speech at US House of Representatives Paul again defended WikiLeaks against criticism for revealing the truth and warned the US administration that \"lying is not patriotic\".\n\nFellow Republican congressman Connie Mack IV of Florida also praised WikiLeaks, stating that Americans have a right to know the contents of the leaks, \"no matter how we acquire that knowledge.\"\n\nAustralia's most senior and high-profile media professionals expressed their support for WikiLeaks in a letter to Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard. The letter was initiated by the Walkley Foundation, who present the yearly Walkley Awards for Excellence in Journalism. The letter was signed by \"the ten members of the Walkley Advisory Board as well as editors of major Australian newspapers and news websites and the news directors of the country's three commercial TV networks and two public broadcasters.\" Their position (an extract from the letter) is summarised as follows:\n\nFollowing the November 2010 leak of United States diplomatic cables \"The Atlantic\", in a staff editorial, opined \"Wikileaks is a powerful new way for reporters and human rights advocates to leverage global information technology systems to break the heavy veil of government and corporate secrecy that is slowly suffocating the American press.\" Calling legal and physical threats against WikiLeaks volunteers \"shameful\" the magazine went on to state, \"Not since President Richard Nixon directed his minions to go after Pentagon Papers leaker Daniel Ellsberg and \"New York Times\" reporter Neil Sheehan ... has a working journalist and his source been subjected to the kind of official intimidation and threats that have been directed at Assange and Manning by high-ranking members of the Obama Administration.\"\n\nOn 4 December 2010, Reporters Without Borders condemned the \"blocking, cyber-attacks and political pressure\" being directed at WikiLeaks. The organisation is also concerned by some of the extreme comments made by American authorities concerning WikiLeaks and its founder Julian Assange. On 21 December the organisation announced it will host a mirror website for the leaked US diplomatic cables being published by WikiLeaks.\n\nIn an article titled \"Only WikiLeaks can save US policy\" published on the online foreign affairs magazine \"The Diplomat\", former long-time CIA counter-terrorism expert Michael Scheuer said the source of interest in WikiLeaks revelations was in the inherent dishonesty of recent U.S. administrations. \"In recent years, the US public has had to hear its leaders repeatedly tell Americans that black was white,\" Scheuer wrote, referencing the presidencies of Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama.\n\nEvan Hughes, editor-in-chief of wired.com published his support for WikiLeaks in an online editorial titled \"Why WikiLeaks is Good for America.\" Despite an often contentious relationship between \"Wired\" and WikiLeaks, with the former having been accused by the latter of complicity in the identification and arrest of Chelsea Manning, Hughes argued that \"WikiLeaks stands to improve our democracy, not weaken it.\" He went on to note that \"The greatest threat we face right now from WikiLeaks is not the information it has spilled and may spill in the future, but the reactionary response to it that's building in the United States that promises to repudiate the rule of law and our free speech traditions, if left unchecked.\"\nThe New York Times reported that over 200 WikiLeaks mirror sites sprang up after some hosting companies cut their services to the company. On 5 December, a group of activists and hackers known as \"Anonymous\" called upon supporters to attack sites of companies that oppose WikiLeaks as part of \"Operation Avenge Assange\". PayPal has been targeted following their decision to stop processing donations for WikiLeaks. Gregg Housh, who previously worked on other projects with Anonymous, said that he had noticed an organised attempt taking place to attack companies that have not supported WikiLeaks. In reference to the support being shown for WikiLeaks, Mr. Housh said; \"The reason is amazingly simple, we all believe that information should be free, and the Internet should be free.\" On 8 December 2010, the PayPal website was victim of a denial-of-service attack by Anonymous. Later that day, PayPal announced in their blog that they will release all remaining funds in the account to the foundation that was raising funds for WikiLeaks. On the same day, the websites of Visa and MasterCard were attacked by WikiLeaks supporters. By then over 1,200 mirror sites had been set up for hosting content no longer accessible at WikiLeaks.com. Anonymous also issued a fresh statement; \"While we don't have much of an affiliation with WikiLeaks, we fight for the same reasons. We want transparency, and we counter censorship ... This is why we intend to utilise our resources to raise awareness, attack those against, and support those who are helping lead our world to freedom and democracy.\"\n\nIn December 2010, the Internet Society stated that despite the international concern about the content released by WikiLeaks, \"we nevertheless believe it must be subject to the same laws and policies of availability as all Internet sites\" and that \"free expression should not be restricted by governmental or private controls over computer hardware or software, telecommunications infrastructure, or other essential components of the Internet\". ISOC also called for appropriate action to \"pursue and prosecute entities (if any) that acted maliciously to take it [WikiLeaks] off the air\" because suppressing communication would merely serve to \"undermine the integrity of the global Internet and its operation\".\n\nOn 8 December 2010 a petition was launched on Avaaz in support of WikiLeaks, which was signed by over 250 thousand people within the first few hours, the total number went up to 600 thousand by 15 December 2010.\n\nIn early December 2010, Noam Chomsky offered his support to protesters across Australia planning to take to the streets in defence of WikiLeaks. In an interview for \"Democracy Now!\", Chomsky criticized the government response, saying, \"perhaps the most dramatic revelation ... is the bitter hatred of democracy that is revealed both by the U.S. Government – Hillary Clinton, others – and also by the diplomatic service.\"\n\nIn 2015, Randy Credico made news for being handcuffed and thrown out of the annual White House Correspondents' Dinner for supporting Assange. Randy appeared in an interview with Jimmy Dore after and described the experience, \"I'm really feeling guilty about Julian Assange, being in that room, and everybody here about to be celebrated, CNN... and so I walked into the middle of the room[...] and I went up there before the program actually started. I just couldnt hold back because I didn't want to interrupt the comedian. So i started yelling out to the stage, 'We\nshould be celebrating and supporting Julian Assange. He's the greatest journalist, god bless...\" and so i went to \nabout three different spots, as loud as I possibly could bellow out those words, 'We, CNN, all of the news organisations, should be celebrating, and we should be commending Julian Assange. 100% accuracy! he's sacrificing his liberty!'\nIn 2008, Index on Censorship presented WikiLeaks with their inaugural Economist New Media Award.\n\nIn 2009, Amnesty International awarded WikiLeaks their Media Award for exposing \"extra judicial killings and disappearances\" in Kenya.\n\nIn 2009, Ars Electronica awarded WikiLeaks an Award of Distinction in the Digital Communities category.\n\nIn 2010, TIME Magazine Person of the Year, People's Choice (highest global vote) and the Sam Adams Award for Integrity.\n\nIn 2011, Walkley Foundation for Journalism awarded the \"Most outstanding contribution to journalism\" Walkley Award to WikiLeaks. The Sydney Peace Foundation Gold Medal, the Martha Gellhorn Prize for Journalism, the Blanquerna Award for Best Communicator, the Walkley Award for Most Outstanding Contribution to Journalism, the Voltaire Award for Free Speech, the International Piero Passetti Journalism Prize of the National Union of Italian Journalists, the \"VII José Couso Press Freedom Award\" from Colexio Profesional de Xornalistas de Galicia and Club de Prensa de Ferrol and the Blanquerna Faculty of Communication awarded the \"Blanquerna Best Communicator Award\" to WikiLeaks.\n\nIn 2012 the Privacy International Hero of Privacy.\n\nIn 2013 the Global Exchange Human Rights People's Choice Award, the Yoko Ono Lennon Courage Award for the Arts and the Brazilian Press Association Human Rights Award.\n\nIn 2014 the Kazakhstan Union of Journalists Top Prize.\n\nAdditionally, Wikileaks was nominated for awards but did not win:\n\n1 February 2011, Norwegian politician and musician Snorre Valen nominated WikiLeaks for the Nobel Peace Prize, totaling six nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize in consecutive years (2010-2015) for the organization\n\n2015 Wikileaks received a nomination for the UN Mandela Prize. six nominations for the Nobel Peace Prize in consecutive years (2010-2015)\n\nWikiLeaks has attracted criticism from a variety of sources.\n\nIn 2007 John Young, operator of Cryptome, left his position on the WikiLeaks Board of Directors accusing the group of being a \"CIA conduit\". Young subsequently retreated from his assertion but has continued to be critical of the site. In a 2010 interview with CNET.com Young accused the group of a lack of transparency regarding their fundraising and financial management. He went on to state his belief that WikiLeaks could not guarantee whistleblowers the anonymity or confidentiality they claimed and that he \"would not trust them with information if it had any value, or if it put me at risk or anyone that I cared about at risk.\"\n\nWhen asked to join their initial advisory board, Steven Aftergood declined and told TIME that \"they have a very idealistic view of the nature of leaking and its impact. They seem to think that most leakers are crusading do-gooders who are single-handedly battling one evil empire or another.\" Citing the leaking of the sorority rituals of Alpha Sigma Tau, Steven Aftergood has opined that WikiLeaks \"does not respect the rule of law nor does it honor the rights of individuals.\" Aftergood went on to state that WikiLeaks engages in unrestrained disclosure of non-governmental secrets without compelling public policy reasons and that many anti-corruption activists were opposed to the site's activities.\n\nIn 2010, Amnesty International joined several other human rights groups in strongly requesting that WikiLeaks redact the names of Afghan civilians working as U.S. military informants from files they had released, in order to protect them from repercussions. Julian Assange responded by offering Amnesty International the opportunity to assist in the tedious document vetting process. When Amnesty International appeared to express reservations in accepting the offer, Assange stated that he had \"no time to deal with people who prefer to do nothing but cover their asses.\" Other groups that joined Amnesty International in criticising WikiLeaks subsequently noted that, despite their displeasure over the issue of civilian name redaction, they generally appreciated WikiLeaks' work.\n\nIn an August 2010 open letter, the non-governmental organisation Reporters Without Borders praised WikiLeaks' past usefulness in exposing \"serious violations of human rights and civil liberties\" but criticised the group over a perceived absence of editorial control, stating \"indiscriminately publishing 92,000 classified reports reflects a real problem of methodology and, therefore, of credibility. Journalistic work involves the selection of information. The argument with which you defend yourself, namely that WikiLeaks is not made up of journalists, is not convincing.\" The group subsequently clarified their statement as a criticism of WikiLeaks release procedure and not the organisation itself, stating \"we reaffirm our support for Wikileaks, its work and its founding principles.\"\n\nOn 30 November 2010, former Canadian government adviser Tom Flanagan, while appearing on the CBC television program \"Power & Politics\", called for Julian Assange to be killed. \"I think Assange should be assassinated,\" Flanagan stated, before noting to host Evan Solomon, \"I'm feeling pretty manly today.\" Flanagan subsequently retracted his call for the death of Assange while reiterating his opposition to WikiLeaks. Dimitri Soudas, spokesman to Prime Minister Stephen Harper, decried Flanagan's comments and said the former Tory strategist's remarks are \"simply not acceptable.\" Ralph Goodale, Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party in the House of Commons, called Flanagan's remarks \"clearly contrary to the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16825211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16825211", "title": "Rendition (text adventure game)", "text": "Rendition (text adventure game)\n\nRendition is a 2007 work of interactive fiction by \"nespresso\", written using Inform 7 and published in z-code format, in which the player performs an interrogation of a suspected terrorist. The game describes itself as a \"political art experiment in text adventure form\". It was submitted to the 2007 Interactive Fiction Art Show in the \"Portrait\" category.\n\nNone of the seven judges at the art show reported enjoying the game, and many criticised its gameplay, though certain aspects of the game were praised. Jon Ingold stated that he stopped playing the game shortly after starting it, as he disliked the level of violence, though stated \"I think this is all very powerful ... As a demonstration of the power - the impact - that a 'silly little text-game' can have, it works very well.\" Another judge stopped playing the game on the same grounds, though commented \"in many ways this was a clever idea, a portrait of me and what I am willing to do.\" Another stated that whilst the game was \"painful to explore, the concept [wa]s particularly well-suited to interactive fiction\".\n\nThe game was subsequently chosen as game-of-the-day by playthisthing, where it was described by Emily Short thus:\nShe subsequently used the game, along with \"Photopia\", as an example of an \"approach to tragedy in interactive fiction\" at the Association for Computing Machinery's Hypertext 2007 conference. It was further discussed in a lecture at Cambridge University by Jorge Nathan Matias on 5 November 2007, and was mentioned in a conference paper by Alex Mitchell and Nick Montfort for the 2009 Digital Arts and Culture Conference.\n"}
{"id": "49670316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49670316", "title": "Right of expatriates to vote in their country of origin", "text": "Right of expatriates to vote in their country of origin\n\nThe right of expatriates to vote in elections in their country of origin varies depending on the legislation of an expatriate’s country of origin. Some countries (such as France) grant their expatriate citizens unlimited voting rights, identical to those of citizens living in their home country. Other countries allow expatriate citizens to vote only for a certain number of years after leaving the country, after which they are no longer eligible to vote (e.g. 15 years for the UK and 25 years for Germany). Other countries reserve the right vote solely to citizens living in that country, thereby stripping expatriate citizens of their voting rights once they leave their home country (such as Ireland, with extremely limited exceptions).\n\nExpatriates' voting rights in local elections sometimes vary within individual countries, usually those with federal systems, such as Switzerland and the United States. For example, Swiss expatriates originally hailing from certain cantons may vote in elections at cantonal level, while those from other cantons may not. The issue has been raised by European Union institutions, particularly in relation to citizens of one EU state resident in another.\n\nAs of 2006, 93 countries allowed their expatriate citizens to vote: 21 African countries, 13 countries in the Americas, 15 Asian countries, 6 Pacific countries and 36 European countries.\n\nAccording to an extensive and thorough research published in 2007 out of researched 214 countries and territories 115 had provisions for external voting.\n\nAustralian citizens living abroad may vote if they register to vote within three years of leaving \"and\" intend to return to Australia within six years of leaving. Australians who were under 18 when they left Australia may vote if they intend to return to Australia within six years of their 18th birthday. Voting may be done by post or at an Australian embassy, consulate or high commission. Unlike for Australians living in Australia, voting is not compulsory for expatriate Australians.\n\nAustrian citizens living abroad may vote by post in Austrian presidential and parliamentary elections, as well as referendums, with no expiry date. They must enrol on a dedicated foreign voters' register and must renew their registration every ten years.\n\nAs of 2017, Belgian citizens living abroad can register to vote for elections to the Chamber of Representatives and the European Parliament. Once registered in a consular post (which is optional), the person is subject to compulsory voting. Expatriates cannot vote in regional or local elections.\n\nOriginally, the law of 18 December 1998 first gave Belgians living abroad the right to vote in federal elections (i.e. for the Chamber and Senate). However, the law was inadequate and not generally applied.\n\nThe law of 7 March 2002 improved the procedure. Belgians abroad could register in a municipality of their choice, determining the constituency in which their vote would be cast. In practice, most votes were cast in the linguistically sensitive Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde constituency.\n\nThe sixth Belgian state reform (ca. 2012), which also abolished the Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde constituency and direct Senate elections, replaced the free choice by an objectively defined municipality (where the person last lived, or else further criteria apply).\n\nThe law of 17 November 2016 slightly changed the procedure, and also extended the right to vote for European Parliament elections to Belgians living in a non-EU member state. Belgians living in another EU member state already had the right to vote on Belgian lists in European Parliament elections.\n\nOn 26 August 2016, the cabinet also approved the right to vote in regional elections; however, this change is subject to approval by special majority in parliament, causing the measure to stall.\n\nBrazilian citizens living abroad aged between 18 and 70 must vote, as Brazil's policy of compulsory voting includes expatriate Brazilians. Voting is possible, but not mandatory, for Brazilian expatriates aged over 70 or under 18 (Brazil's minimum voting age is 16).\n\nCanadian citizens living abroad can vote by post if they have lived outside Canada for less than five consecutive years. Only Canadians working for the Canadian government, a Canadian company or an international organisation in which Canada is involved are exempt from this expiry date.\n\nCanadian citizens living abroad who are not eligible to vote by post may still vote regardless of how long they have lived abroad, but only if they return to Canada to vote in person.\n\nChilean expatriates have the right to vote in presidential elections (primaries, first and second round) and national referenda in the consulate where they registered. The law allowing expatriate Chilean citizens the right to vote was presented by President Michelle Bachelet and approved by Congress in August 2016. The primaries for the 2017 presidential election were the first time that expatriates were allowed to vote.\n\nRegardless of their time living abroad, Colombian expatriates enjoy full voting rights in national referendums, presidential and parliamentary elections. One member of the House of Representatives comes from the international constituency and is elected exclusively by citizens living abroad. In order to vote, Colombian citizens have to register in their respective consulate or embassy in the established periods before the election dates.\n\nCosta Rican citizens can vote for president and national referendums regardless of their time living abroad since Electoral Code's reform of 2010. They can't, however, vote in local elections which includes deputies and municipal authorities. The first time this was implemented was in the Costa Rican general election, 2014. Costa Ricans vote in the respective consulate or embassy and have to register their location a year before the election.\n\nFrench citizens living abroad enjoy full voting rights in presidential and parliamentary elections, regardless of how long they have lived abroad.\n\nFrance has a dedicated Assembly of French Citizens Abroad, the president of which is the French Foreign Minister. France also has a system of 11 constituencies for French residents overseas, each of which are represented by a deputy who sits in the National Assembly.\n\nArticle 12(2)(1) of the Federal Voting Act states that German citizens who live abroad and have no residence in Germany may vote in German parliamentary elections and European Parliament elections if:\n\na) they have resided in Germany for an uninterrupted period of at least three months since their 14th birthday and within the last 25 years; or\n\nb) they have a close personal and direct relationship with German politics and are personally affected by political developments in Germany.\n\nExpatriate Indian citizens have been allowed to vote in all Indian elections since 2010, provided that they have not acquired the citizenship of another country (India does not permit dual nationality).\n\nAt most elections in the Republic of Ireland the electoral register is based on residential address, and the only nonresident voters are those serving abroad on government business; this includes Irish diplomats and their spouses, and Defence Forces and Garda Síochána personnel but not their spouses. An exception is in elections to the Seanad (upper house) for which graduates voting in the university constituencies (National University of Ireland and University of Dublin) may be nonresident. Expatriates intending to return to Ireland within eighteen months may retain their Irish address for electoral purposes, but must be present to vote in person. Since the 1990s there have been proposals to allow emigrants to vote in elections to the Dáil (lower house) or Seanad, generally via a dedicated (single transferable vote multi-seat) constituency. \nIn 2017 the government agreed to allow expatriate citizens to vote in presidential elections and promised a constitutional referendum to be held alongside the 2019 local election.\n\nItalian citizens living abroad retain the right to vote in Italian parliamentary elections. They may vote either by post or at an Italian consulate or embassy. However, for Italian citizens who live in a country which has no Italian diplomatic representation, the only way to vote is to travel to Italy to vote in person. Citizens who choose to do so are reimbursed by the Italian government for 75% of their travel costs.\n\nThe Italian Parliament reserves 18 seats for those citizens residing abroad: there are twelve such seats in the Chamber of Deputies and six in the Senate of the Republic.\n\nJapanese citizens living abroad have been allowed to vote in Diet elections since 2005, when the Supreme Court ruled that a ban on eligible overseas Japanese citizens from voting was unconstitutional. Citizens can vote either by post or at their local Japanese embassy or consulate.\n\nLuxembourg citizens living abroad may vote in parliamentary elections and referendums, but not local elections.\n\nMaltese citizens may only vote if they are physically present in Malta on election day. There is no rule forbidding expatriate citizens from voting, but they may only vote if they return to Malta in person to do so, at their own expense. There have been attempts and petitions to allow Maltese citizens living abroad to vote by post.\n\nNamibian citizens living abroad have been allowed to vote in national elections since 2014, when amendments were made to the Electoral Act 2009, Namibian expatriates may vote at temporary registration points, usually set up at Namibian embassies or high commissions.\n\nDutch citizens who live abroad (and have deregistered as Dutch residents) are allowed to vote in elections for the House of Representatives and for the European Parliament, but cannot vote in municipal or provincial elections. They must register as voters in order to vote from abroad.\n\nNew Zealand citizens living abroad have full voting rights with no expiry date as long as they have lived in New Zealand for at least one year continuously at some point in their lives and have visited New Zealand within the last three years.\n\nUnder Republic Act No. 9189 (also known as the Overseas Absentee Voting Act of 2003), Filipino citizens living abroad are allowed to vote, with no expiry date.\n\nArticle 49 of the Portuguese Constitution grants all Portuguese citizens the right to vote, regardless of where they live.\n\nPortugal has a \"Council of Portuguese Communities\" (Conselho das Comunidades Portuguesas), a consultative body which is part of the Portuguese government and represents the interests of Portuguese citizens living abroad.\n\nSingaporean citizens living abroad may vote in presidential and parliamentary elections, with no expiry date. However, they may only vote in person at one of ten designated overseas polling stations, located in Australia, China (two polling stations: Beijing and Shanghai), Japan, Hong Kong, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom and the United States (three polling stations: New York City, San Francisco and Washington, D.C.). Each citizen is assigned to an overseas polling station depending on where they live. Expatriate citizens are also assigned a polling station in Singapore, where they can vote in person if they happen to be in Singapore on election day.\n\nPursuant to Chapter 1, Section 10 of Electoral Act 73 of 1998, South African citizens living abroad retain the right to vote in national elections, with no expiry date. Expatriate citizens wishing to vote must do so in person at a South African embassy, consulate or high commission.\n\nArticle 68, Section 5 of the Spanish Constitution guarantees Spanish citizens living abroad the right to vote. They may do so either at a Spanish consulate or embassy, or by post.\n\nSpain has a \"General Council of Spanish Citizenship Abroad\" (Consejo General de la Ciudadanía Española en el Exterior, CGCDE), an advisory body which represents the interests of Spanish citizens living abroad.\n\nSwedish nationals living abroad are automatically entitled to vote in Riksdag elections and European Parliamentary elections (for those living in another EU Member State) up to ten years after leaving Sweden. There is no time limit to eligibility, but after the initial 10-year period has elapsed, Swedish expatriates must renew their electoral roll registration by filling out a form every 10 years. They cannot vote in either county or municipal elections. Voting take place either by post or at Swedish embassies.\n\nSwiss citizens living abroad may vote, with no expiry date, in elections for the National Council (lower house of parliament) and in federal referendums, provided that they register with the relevant Swiss representation abroad. Their eligibility to vote in elections for the Council of States (upper house of parliament) and in cantonal and municipal elections depends on the law of the canton in which the person was registered before leaving Switzerland.\n\nTunisian expatriates have been granted the right to vote in presidential elections since 1988, and additionally in parliamentary elections since the Tunisian Revolution in 2011.\n\nBritish citizens living abroad may vote in UK general elections, referendums and European Parliament elections for up to 15 years after leaving the UK. However, they may only do so if they were registered to vote in the UK while living there. British expatriates who were under 18 at the time of leaving the UK may vote as long as their parent or guardian was registered to vote in the UK.\n\nBritish expatriates are not allowed to vote in local elections or in elections for the devolved Scottish Parliament or Welsh or Northern Irish Assemblies.\n\nIn February 2018, the Overseas Electors Bill was presented to Parliament, with a view to abolishing the 15-year limit and the requirement to have registered to vote before leaving the UK. This would grant all British expatriates the unlimited right to vote, as long as they have lived in the UK at some point in their lives. The issue became a hotly debated topic among British expatriates who have lived in other EU Member States for more than 15 years and were thus barred from voting in the referendum on European Union membership, despite arguably being more affected by the result than British people living in the UK.\n\nUS citizens living abroad enjoy full voting rights, regardless of how long they have lived abroad. In addition, 36 states, plus the District of Columbia, allow US citizens who have never resided in the US to vote in the respective state based on where their parent or legal guardian was last registered.\n"}
{"id": "56777978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56777978", "title": "Ruth Reese", "text": "Ruth Reese\n\nRuth Reese (10 March 1921 – 25 October 1990) was an African American-Norwegian singer, writer and civil rights activist. She was one of the first prominent black singers in Norway and was actively involved in the international fight against racism. Over several decades, she contributed significantly to the understanding of African American history and music in Norway.\n\nRuth Reese was born on 10 March 1921 in Hayneville, Alabama to Sarah (née Hunter) and William Reese. In her childhood, the family moved to Chicago, where Reese attended school and sang in the church choir. Without adequate funds to pursue music studies, she worked as a domestic after school to pay for music lessons. After completing her secondary studies, Reese attended Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois earning a bachelor's degree in music.\n\nAfter her graduation, Reese first worked as a physical training instructor and choir director at Madden Park, before being hired as a substitute teacher Throughout the 1940s, Reese performed in the Chicago area, entering musical contests, winning several local awards, and earning promising reviews. In 1949, she appeared in the role of \"Mougali\" in the premiere performance of the opera \"Ouanga\" by Clarence Cameron White. Earning acclaim and a scholarship for her performance, Reese moved to New York City, to continue her voice training with Léon Rothier and Lawrence Brown.\n\nAfter her concert debut in 1952, Reese moved to England and studied Amanda Aldridge. Her European debut was at the Salle Gaveau in Paris in 1953. Though classically-trained, she gained her reputation from performing Spirituals, Gospel music and the Blues with their roots in African-American tradition. Touring Europe, she performed both on stage and on the airwaves in Czechoslovakia, England, France, Israel, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and throughout Scandinavia. In 1956, she first came in Norway and drew attention for the color of her skin, often billed as a \"negersangerinne\" (black singer). At the time in Norway, the society viewed itself as homogeneously white and had not recognized its indigenous or national minority populations. Reese found similar situations to those she had experienced in the United States, when she was denied lodging numerous times. She persevered, making a name for herself and fell in love. In 1960, she permanently settled in Oslo, Norway and two years later married he bookstore owner Paul Shetelig.\n\nReese began publishing about racial issues in newspapers like the \"Dagbladet\". In a piece published in 1959, \"Vår hud er sort\" (Our Skin is Black), she addressed the Norwegian indifference to racist policies in the United States or South Africa, such as the selling of South African fruits and wines, and began to draw awareness of the problems Africans and black people faced. Public debate on race began for the first time, the University sponsored a series of talks \"Racism and Democracy\", and in 1960, the national trade union proposed a boycott on South African goods. Reese actively took part in the movement to raise awareness, giving a lecture \"De amerikanske negrenes musikkhistorie gjennom 360 år\" (The American Negro's Music History Through 360 Years) throughout the country, in which she explained the difference between Spirituals and Classical music. She felt that to be properly performed, Spirituals could not be sung by white interpreters because \"[t]he tones are created in tears. One must feel this pain in the soul to make it sound right\". In 1963, to show solidarity with President John F. Kennedy's Civil Rights Agenda and the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, Reese collected signatures on a petition and led supporters in a march to the Oslo home of the American ambassador.\n\nIn addition to her activism, Reese continued to perform throughout Norway and had wide popularity. She was one of the first black artists to become established in Norway and was a major contributor to the spread of African music in the country. In 1972, a collection of her writings was published in Norwegian, \"Lang svart vei\" (Long Black Road) and in 1979, she released an album \"Motherless Child\" in 1979. In 1985, she published her autobiography, \"Min vei\" (My Way), in which she acknowledged that her activism had impacted her career, but was unapologetic for speaking for those who could not \"express their despair\". In 1990, she produced the short film \"Pride of Black Dreams\" which presented a brief history of African American through song and dance. It was shown widely in schools and on NRK Television.\n\nReese died on 25 October 1990 while giving an address against racism to the organization SOS Rasisme at a gathering being held in Oslo in her honor. Reese's archives were left to her student Kristin Asbjørnsen, who has made recordings in honor of her teacher. In 2013, Asbjørnsen explained that it had taken her many years to absorb the underlying messages from the lengthy notes and old recordings she had received. Only then was she ready to release albums inspired by Reese's approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "38851408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38851408", "title": "School feeding in low-income countries", "text": "School feeding in low-income countries\n\nSchool feeding programs have been defined by the World Bank as \"targeted social safety nets that provide both educational and health benefits to the most vulnerable children, thereby increasing enrollment rates, reducing absenteeism, and improving food security at the household level\". Beyond improvements in access to food, school feeding programs also have a positive impact on nutritional status, gender equity, and educational status, each of which contributes to improving overall levels of country and human development. \n\nWhile school meals are provided by the governments of most high and middle-income countries around the globe, the children who may benefit most from school feeding programs are in low-income countries that do not have government-provided school meals. School feeding in low-income countries often starts through funding by international organizations such as the United Nations World Food Programme or the World Bank or national governments through programs such as the McGovern-Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program. However, some governments have first started school-feeding programs and then requested the help of these organizations and programs. Additionally, many countries have \"graduated\" from their dependency on foreign assistance by reshaping their school feeding programs to be country-led and self-supported.\n\nWhile there are school feeding programs in a number of countries, each program varies widely from country to country in design, implementation, and evaluation. Thus, literature reviews and studies often focus on a small number of countries, as school feeding is not a uniform unit of intervention and cannot be compared or assessed on an international scale.\n\nAccording to the United Nations World Food Programme, 66 million primary school age children go hungry every day, with 23 million hungry children in Africa alone. Furthermore, 80% of these 66 million children are concentrated within just 20 countries. Additionally, 75 million school-age children (55% of them girls) do not attend school, with 47% of them living in sub-Saharan Africa. Thus, the need to reduce hunger while increasing school enrollment in these children is evident, and school feeding programs have been developed to target this multifaceted problem. \n\nSchools have become a natural and convenient setting for the implementation of health and education interventions. School feeding is just one facet of school health initiatives, as other programs may include de-worming, HIV/AIDS prevention and education, and life and health skills education. Overall, school feeding programs have been shown to directly increase the educational and nutritional status of recipient children, and indirectly impact the economic and social lives of themselves and their family. Additionally, school feeding directly addresses the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of reducing hunger by one-half, achieving universal primary education, and achieving gender parity in education by 2015.\n\nThere are two main ways to distribute food through school feeding programs: on-site meals and take-home rations. On-site meals are foods that are distributed to children while at school during morning and afternoon meal and snack times, which may include a bowl of porridge or nutrient-fortified crackers. Take-home rations are a collection of basic food items, such as a bag of rice and a bottle of cooking oil, which may be sent home and transferred to the families of children who regularly attend school.\n\nWhile the food items needed for school feeding programs may be imported into the country from anywhere throughout the world, an increasing number of countries and organizations are looking to expand what is called \"home-grown school feeding,\" which requires that provided food is produced and purchased within a country to the greatest extent possible. These programs provide an opportunity for children to receive improved nutrition and educational opportunities while also allowing smallholder farmers to benefit from access to a market with stable, structured, and predictable demand. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) guided governments in Sub-Saharan Africa to include home-grown school feeding as a critical intervention for the food security facet of the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP). Several countries, including Côte d'Ivoire, Ghana, Kenya, Mali and Nigeria are currently taking part in home-grown school feeding programs.\n\nAccording to the International Food Policy Research Institute, there are five stages of school feeding. The first stage includes school feeding programs that rely mostly on external funding and implementation, while the last stage includes school feeding programs that rely mostly on internal government funding and implementation. Countries that are within the first stage include Afghanistan and Sudan, where country governments are unable to lead school feeding programs. Countries that are within the fifth stage include Chile and India, which have functional, country-led school feeding programs. For example, the Government of Chile has provided a school feeding program for over 40 years through the La Junta Nacional de Auxilio Escolar y Becas (National Board of School Assistance and Scholarships) through a public-private partnership. This program involves technology that allows food to be centrally mass-produced and then distributed across the country. Additionally, the Government of India has supported school feeding programs since 2001, when the country recognized Indians' Constitutional Right to Food. Countries that are in the middle of the stages, such as Kenya and Ecuador may have some but not all of the governmental policies, financial capacities, or institutional capacities to operate school feeding programs without external funding or implementation.\n\nIn terms of external funding and implementation, the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) is the world's leading provider of school feeding program financial contributions and program development. WFP currently provides school feeding resources to an average of 22 million children in school, about half of whom are girls, across 70 countries. The total financial contribution for these programs is almost USD$500 million per year. Many governments work alongside WFP in school-feeding programs, though in countries where the government is non-functional or corrupt, WFP may work on its own or with other non-governmental organizations. The World Food Programme has estimated that US$3.2 billion is needed each year to feed the 66 million school-age children around the globe, an amount of US$50 per child. \n\nWFP has been working with governments around the world for over 45 years, but is shifting from a food aid organization to food assistance organization, working to move away from \"individual, isolated projects to more strategic and comprehensive approaches\". To foster government ownership of school meals, WFP has implemented eight quality standards that guide the design and implementation of sustainable school meal programs:\n\nSchool meals have been shown to increase the nutritional status of school-age children in a variety of ways. For example, there is a notable reduction in malnutrition via diet diversification and an increased absorption of micronutrients. Overall, the amount of kilocalories in a child's diet is expanded when they are given nutritional resources that they would otherwise have little to no access to. By increasing the amount of nutrition a child receives at school, that child's family's nutrition status also increases as their familial demand and requirement for food is decreased. Targeted take-home rations therefore increase the nutrition of the family as a whole, and not just the members of a given family that are of primary-school age. However, criticisms of school meals' impacts on nutrition stem from the idea that increased nutrition through school meals is only a temporary fix and does not target the underlying causes of malnutrition, such as high food prices and poor food distribution systems that prevent food security.\n\nEducation is a key component in school feeding programs and global development because overall, a more educated person has an increased amount of opportunities in life, earns more money, and has a higher standard of living than an uneducated individual. School meals greatly impact recipient children's education status by increasing school enrollment and attendance, decreasing drop-out rates, and improving cognitive abilities and learning achievements. Generally, sending children to a school in which school-meals are served offsets the financial and opportunity costs of schooling, and thus families are incentivized to send their children to school. Additionally, school feeding programs may serve as an incentive for students to go to school to receive food rather than missing out on food by staying home. The increased nutrition status of children, as a result of school feeding programs, also enhances students' cognitive abilities and performance in school.\n\nSchool feeding programs have the capacity to increase gender equity in access to education, which allows for gender equity across all spheres of social and economic life. There are a variety of reasons that girls' education is impacted by factors on both the supply and demand side of schooling. These include gender-stereotyped curriculum and teaching practices, increased risks for girls' safety outside of the house, socio-cultural practices that cause girls' education to hold a very low value, and school infrastructure that is not suitable for girls. Due to the combination of such barriers, girls are disproportionately affected by the direct and opportunity cost of schooling, which prevents girls from very poor households from attending school. Opportunity costs for girls' education include lost time that would otherwise be spent doing household chores and care work. School feeding programs reduce the costs of sending girls to school and allow for an increased number of girls to be sent to school by their families. Furthermore, improvements in female literacy that come from increased education have been linked to declining rates of fertility, increased economic opportunities, and other markers of female empowerment.\n\nWhile school feeding programs have a variety of positive impacts, there are some possible negative impacts these programs can cause. For example, school feeding programs can increase the cost of schooling by requiring that communities provide fire-wood for cooking as well as other items such as fresh-fruit, vegetables, and condiments. Additionally, communities are also expected to provide people who can cook these meals and maintain stores of all of the required food products, as well as kitchens and other fundamentals of meal provision. By causing a variety of needs and requirements to increase in a given community, the net benefit to a community from school feeding programs may be reduced. \n\nSchool feeding programs are very context-specific, and each community's program must be altered based on the demographics, geography, and other patterns within and outside of schools. For this reason, there are a variety of challenges that emerge in the creation and implementation of school feeding programs. A successful program requires that countries:\n\nBecause school feeding programs are community-specific and require a great deal of planning, the sustainability of school feeding programs is a main point of concern for many countries. Countries are very limited on the demands placed on the staff, resources, and infrastructure required for school-feeding programs, and often have to rely on outside financial and personnel help to continue programs for a significant amount of time.\n\nThough school feeding produces a variety of anticipated impacts, as mentioned above, much research and evaluation is being done to determine the results of school feeding programs in low-income countries. School feeding program results are often context-specific, but lessons from a variety of communities can help evaluate school feeding program effectiveness. Researchers at the International Food Policy Research Institute have critically assessed evidence from developing countries to define preliminary results of these programs. These assessments found that the timing of meals is not a critical factor in the positive effects on learning and cognition, and thus take-home rations can perform as well as in-school meals, and that in-school meals may even disrupt learning. In some settings, take-home rations are more cost-effective than in-school meals, and the study argued that some country programs may be optimized by focusing resources on take-home rations. Additionally, it was found that in the study setting, school attendance improved learning more significantly than nutrition status improvements, but that school feeding programs encouraged attendance and still have a positive net result on education levels. In a study done by Patrick J. McEwan, it was shown that there is no evidence that higher-calorie meals positively impact school enrollment and attendance, first-grade enrollment age and grade repetition, and fourth-grade test scores over average-calorie school feeding meals in Chile's national program. Thus, McEwan's study suggested that Chilean policy, to produce significant positive results, should focus more on the nutritional composition of school meals, rather than caloric content alone.\n\n"}
{"id": "29346991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29346991", "title": "Science of science policy", "text": "Science of science policy\n\nThe science of science policy (SoSP) is an emerging interdisciplinary research area that seeks to develop theoretical and empirical models of the scientific enterprise. This scientific basis can be used to help government, and society in general, make better R&D management decisions by establishing a scientifically rigorous, quantitative basis from which policy makers and researchers may assess the impacts of the nation’s scientific and engineering enterprise, improve their understanding of its dynamics, and assess the likely outcomes. Examples of research in the science of science policy include models to understand the production of science, qualitative, quantitative and computational methods to estimate the impact of science, and processes for choosing from alternative science portfolios.\n\nThe federal government of the United States has long been a supporter of SoSP. In 2006, in response to Office of Science and Technology Policy Director Dr. John H. Marburger’s challenge for a new \"science of science policy,\" the National Science and Technology Council's Subcommittee on Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences (SBE) established an Interagency Task Group on Science of Science Policy (ITG) to serve as part of the internal deliberative process of the Subcommittee. In 2008, the SoSP ITG developed and published The Science of Science Policy: A Federal Research Roadmap, which outlined the Federal efforts necessary for the long-term development of a science of science policy, and presented this Roadmap to the SoSP Community. The ITG’s subsequent work has been guided by the questions outlined in the Roadmap and the action steps developed at the workshop. Furthermore, since 2007, the National Science Foundation, in support of academic research to advance the field, has awarded grants from the Science of Science and Innovation Policy (SciSIP) program. The SciSIP research supports and complements the Federal SoSP efforts by providing new tools with immediate relevance to policymakers.\n\nThe Science of Science and Innovation Policy (SciSIP) program was established at the National Science Foundation in 2005 in response to a call from John Marburger for a \"specialist scholarly community\" to study the science of science policy. The program has three major goals: advancing evidence-based science and innovation policy decision making; building a scientific community to study science and innovation policy; and leveraging the experience of other countries. \n\nBetween 2007 and 2011, over one hundred and thirty awards were made in five rounds of funding. The awardees include economists, sociologists, political scientists, and psychologists. Some of these awards are already showing results in the form of papers, presentations, software, and data development.\n\n"}
{"id": "53699527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53699527", "title": "Scottish Land Commission", "text": "Scottish Land Commission\n\nThe Scottish Land Commission () was established by the Scottish Government following the passage of the Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2016 by the Scottish Parliament; the Commission also incorporates the work of the Tenant Farming Commissioner. The Lands Commissioners, who constitute the Commission, have functions relating to land in Scotland, so that they address issues which relate to ownership of land, land rights, management of land, and use of land. The Tenant Farming Commissioner has the aim of improving the relationship between tenant farmers and land owners, and can create codes of practice, provide practical guidance, and must consult on such matters. The Tenant Farming Commissioner cannot be an agricultural landlord or agricultural tenant, and will develop codes of practice which are in addition to the law and the jurisdiction of the Scottish Land Court.\n\nThe Scottish Land Commission is a body concerned with looking at the concentration of land ownership, land taxation, and effective use of land for the common good. The Commission will also provide some scrutiny of those laws and policies that relate to land within Scotland.\n\nIn 2013 Richard Lochhead , then Cabinet Secretary for Rural Affairs and the Environment, announced the launch of the Agricultural Holdings Review, which would examine the situation of land ownership and use, tenant-owner relationships, and all of the relevant legislation. The Review published its final report in January 2015, and the recommendations were put out to consultation.\nIn the final report Richard Lochead noted the importance of the relationships between landowners and tenants for the future of agriculture in Scotland, stating,\nFollowing the responses to the consultation the Scottish Government presented the \"Land Reform (Scotland) Bill\" to the Scottish Parliament on 22 June 2015. The Bill was passed by the Scottish Parliament on 16 March 2016, and received Royal Assent on 22 March 2016 becoming Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2016.\n\nThe Land Reform (Scotland) Bill was criticised during its passage by the Delegated Powers and Law Reform Committee of the Scottish Parliament on the basis that it granted a significant power to Scottish Minister to implement much of the details of the Act through secondary legislation and delegated powers. Turcan Connell identified concerns around the implementation of the Act and the amount of scrutiny the detailed law would receive.\n\nOn 1 March 2016 concerns were also raised by Scottish Land and Estates about the passage of the Land Reform Bill, the body that represents Scotland's rural landowners, who felt that the good that landowners did was ignored in favour of \"being radical\". Scottish Land and Estates, further asserted that how land is used is as important as who owns that land. Aileen McLeod , as Minister for Environment, Climate Change and Land Reform addressed the members of Scottish Land and Estates, who recognised the expertise of land owners in managing land, affirming that the intention is bring about balance in the tenant/land owner relationship, and to ensure everyone who has stake in land ownership and management is involved. She stated the Bill was about spreading good practice around Scotland,\nLibby Brooks, writing in \"The Guardian\" newspaper on 17 March 2016, reported dissatisfaction with the new law from the Scottish Green Party for not being radical enough. Andy Wightman , land reform spokesperson for the Scottish Green Party, was disappointed that the Land Reform (Scotland) Act did not outlaw the ownership of Scottish land by offshore companies in tax havens. Brooks also reported dissatisfaction that the Act does not restrict the amount of land that can be owned by any one individual.\n\nThe Commission was established by the Scottish Government on 1 April 2017 by \"The Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2016 (Commencement No. 4, Transitional and Saving Provisions) Regulations 2016\" made under the Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2016.\n\nIt is headquartered at Longman House in Inverness. There is a staff of around twenty: five Land Commissioners, the Tenant Farming Commissioner and support staff. The interim chief executive officer was announced as Hilary Pearce, a civil servant in the Scottish government seconded to the post.\n\nThe first commissioners were proposed in November 2016: Andrew Thin, Professor David Adams, Lorne MacLeod, Sally Reynolds, Megan MacInnes and Bob McIntosh as the Tenant Farming Commissioner.\n\nThe nominated Commissioners were considered by the Environment, Climate Change, and Land Reform Committee of Scottish Parliament, which reported on 8 December 2016, recommending that the Scottish Parliament approve the appointment of the Commissioners. Nonetheless, the Committee did recommend that Bob McIntosh, proposed Tenant Farming Commissioner, should resign from membership of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors to maintain the perception of impartiality; the Committee believed McIntosh was in good a position for building relationships with both landowners and tenants. The Committee also recommended that Lorne MacLeod stand down as Chairman of Community Land Scotland and as a director of community owned land on Eriskay, and asked the Scottish Government to provide a date for when appointments to the Commission would be regulated by the Commissioner for Ethical Standards in Public Life in Scotland.\n\nThe Report of the Environment, Climate Change, and Land Reform Committee was noted by the Scottish Parliament on 13 December 2016, and approved the appointment of the Land Commissioners (including the Tenant Farming Commissioner).\n\nThe first chairman, Andrew Thin, was previously the Scottish Government's Independent Advisor on Tenant Farming, and was involved in the establishment of the Cairngorms National Park Authority and had previously worked for Scottish Natural Heritage.\n\nThe Tenant Farming Commissioner cannot be an agricultural landlord or agricultural tenant, and will develop codes of practice which are in addition to the law and the jurisdiction of the Scottish Land Court. The Tenant Farming Commissioner has the power to investigate breaches of the codes of practice.\n\nAs reported in \"The Herald\" newspaper on 11 August 2016, Christopher Nicholson of the Scottish Tenant Farming Association stated that the creation of a Tenant Farming Commissioner had the support of both landowners and tenants. The Agriculture Holdings Review had identified examples of dysfunctional relationships between landlords and tenants, with Bob McIntosh stating,\nThe \"Press and Journal\" newspaper, reported on 8 April 2017 that Bob McIntosh, the first Tenant Farming Commissioner, was hoping that the Codes of Practice he would develop would help tenants and landowners to resolve disputes without recourse to the Scottish Land Court. He stated that he would be able to investigate instances where a landlord or tenant had not complied with the Codes of Practice, following the lodging of a formal complaint.\n\n"}
{"id": "16938301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16938301", "title": "Senate of the Roman Kingdom", "text": "Senate of the Roman Kingdom\n\nThe Senate of the Roman Kingdom was a political institution in the ancient Roman Kingdom. The word \"senate\" derives from the Latin word \"senex\", which means \"old man\". Therefore, \"senate\" literally means \"board of old men\" and translates as \"Council of Elders\". The prehistoric Indo-Europeans who settled Rome in the centuries before the legendary founding of Rome in 753 BC were structured into tribal communities. These tribal communities often included an aristocratic board of tribal elders, who were vested with supreme authority over their tribe. The early tribes that had settled along the banks of the Tiber eventually aggregated into a loose confederation, and later formed an alliance for protection against invaders.\n\nThe early Romans were deeply patriarchal. The early Roman family was called a \"gens\" or \"clan\". Each clan was an aggregation of families under a common living male patriarch, called a \"pater\" (the Latin word for \"father\"). The \"pater\" was the undisputed master of his clan. He had the absolute power to resolve any disputes, and to make any decisions for the collective \"gens\". When the early Roman \"gens\" were aggregating to form a common community, the \"patres\" from the leading clans were selected for the confederated board of elders (what would become the Roman Senate). Legend states that the senate grew to a membership of 300 after three blocks of 100 senators were added at fixed points in time. What likely happened, however, was a gradual aggregation of \"patres\" over time, as more clans achieved high status. The early senate derived its ultimate sovereignty from the fact that it was composed of the patriarchal heads of the leading families. As the individual \"patres\" led their families, the board of \"patres\" led the confederation of those families. In time, the \"patres\" came to recognize the need for a single leader. Therefore, they elected a king (\"rex\"), and vested in him their sovereign power. The king presided over the senate, appointed individuals to the senate (for life), and expelled individuals from the senate. When the king died, his sovereign power naturally reverted to the \"patres\".\n\nAccording to Livy, The senate was created by Rome's first king, Romulus and consisted of 100 men. The descendants of those 100 men subsequently became the patrician class.\n\n100 more were added to the Senate by Rome's fifth king, Lucius Tarquinius Priscus, from amongst the minor leading families.\n\nThe senate of the Roman Kingdom could only be convened by the king, and usually met in either a \"templum\", or in some other location that had been consecrated by a religious official (an augur). While the senate could pass \"laws\", it would be incorrect to view the \"laws\" passed during the time of the kingdom as legislation. In effect, these \"laws\" were actually the decrees of the king. The king had the absolute power to make any law. However, he often involved both the senate and the popular assembly (the \"Curiate Assembly\") in the process. The primary role of the senate in this process was to either assist the king, or to provide additional legitimacy to a decree of the king by declaring its support. Sometimes this involved debate in the senate over the proposed law or an actual vote on the law. However, the king was free to ignore any ruling that the senate ultimately passed. In addition, during the days of the kingdom, the senate's limited prestige made it an accepted practice for the king to ignore advice handed down by the senate. The senate did, however, become an influential advisory council to the king. This tradition was maintained throughout the life of the Roman Republic, although in practice, the republican magistrates rarely acted against the wishes of the senate.\nThe \"patres\" that filled the ranks of the early senate held a position of absolute dominance over their respective families. Since the senate was filled with the \"patres\" of the leading families, their individual dominance over their individual families was consolidated into collective dominance over the collective families of the early Roman community. These were the original patrician families.\n\nWhile the king was technically elected by the people, it was actually the senate who chose each new king. Since the consolidated authority of the \"patres\" of the senate chose the king, the king became the embodiment of that authority. Since the authority of each \"patre\" over his family was absolute, the king was vested with the absolute authority over those families (and thus over the entire state). Since the king derived his authority from the \"patres\", he (theoretically) could not pass that power on to an heir upon his death. Thus, the authority reverted to the senate when the king died.\n\nThe period between the death of one king, and the election of a new king, was called the interregnum. The interregnum was the only period during which the senate exercised its sovereign power. During the first interregnum after the death of Romulus, the senate, comprised at that time of 100 men, arranged itself into ten decuries, and each decurio governed Rome for five days as interrex. The decurios continued to rotate the government amongst themselves for a year until the senate elected Numa Pompilius as king.\n\nThe practice eventually evolved that, when a king died, it was a member of the senate (the Interrex) who nominated a candidate to replace the king. If the senate gave its approval, then in practice, the people were unlikely to reject the nominee. The formal election of the king by the people, however, did serve to confirm to the senate that the people (many of whom fought in the armies that were commanded by the king) found their new potential commander-in-chief to be acceptable. After the senate gave its final approval, the Interrex declared the individual king, and then returned to the ranks of the senate. In effect, the senate chose the king, the people ratified that choice, and the senate finalized the decision.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5029302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5029302", "title": "Spoilt vote", "text": "Spoilt vote\n\nIn voting, a ballot is considered spoilt, spoiled, void, null, informal, invalid or stray if a law declares or an election authority determines that it is invalid and thus not included in the vote count. This may occur accidentally or deliberately. The total number of spoilt votes in a United States election has been called the residual vote. In Australia, such votes are generally referred to as informal votes, and in Canada they are referred to as rejected votes.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, spoilt votes are counted and reported.\n\nA ballot may be spoilt in a number of ways, including:\nAs an example, UK law specifically precludes ballots \"on which votes are given for more candidates than the voter is entitled to vote for\", \"on which anything is written or marked by which the voter can be identified\" or \"which [are] unmarked or void for uncertainty\".\n\nIf a voter makes a mistake while completing a ballot, it may be possible to cancel it and start the voting process again. In the United States, cancelled physical ballots may be called \"spoiled ballots\", as distinct from an \"invalid vote\" which has been cast. \n\nIn Canada, a \"spoiled ballot\" is one that has been handled by an elector in such a manner that it is ruined beyond use, or that the deputy returning officer finds soiled or improperly printed. The spoilt ballot is not placed in the ballot box, but rather is marked as spoilt by the deputy returning officer and set aside. The elector is given another ballot. A 'rejected ballot' is one which cannot be counted due to improper marking by the voter. Examples of this are ballots which have more than one mark, the intent of the voter cannot be ascertained, or the voter can be identified by their mark.\n\nIn many jurisdictions, if multiple elections or referenda are held simultaneously, then there may be separate physical ballots for each, which may be printed on different-colored paper and posted into separate ballot boxes. In the United States, a single physical ballot is often used to record multiple separate votes. In such cases one can distinguish an \"invalid ballot\", where all votes on the ballot are rendered invalid, from a \"partially valid\" ballot, with some votes are valid and others invalid.\n\nA voter may deliberately spoil a vote, for example as a protest vote, especially in compulsory voting jurisdictions, to show disapproval of the candidates standing whilst still taking part in the electoral process. Intentionally spoiling someone else's ballot before or during tabulation is an electoral fraud.\n\nThe validity of an election may be questioned if there is an unusually high proportion of spoilt votes. In multiple-vote U.S. ballots, \"voter roll-off\" is calculated by subtracting the number of votes cast for a \"down-ballot\" office, such as mayor, from the number of votes cast for a \"top-of-the-ballot\" office, such as president. When the election jurisdiction does not report voter turnout, roll-off can be used as a proxy for residual votes. Some voters may only be interested in voting for the major offices, and not bother filling in the lower positions, resulting in a partially valid ballot. Roll-off can also be known as undervoting. \n\nWhile it is not illegal to advocate informal voting in Australian federal elections, it is illegal to advise voters to fill out their ballots in an invalid manner. Albert Langer was jailed for violating an injunction not to advocate incomplete preference voting for the Australian federal election, 1996.\n\nVoter instructions are usually intended to minimize the accidental spoiling of votes. Ballot design can aid or inhibit clarity in an election, resulting in less or more accidental spoiling. Some election officials have discretion to include ballots where the strict criteria for acceptability are not met but the voter's intention is clear. More complicated electoral systems may be more prone to errors. Group voting tickets were introduced in Australia owing to the high number of informal votes cast in single transferable vote (STV) elections. When multiple Irish STV elections are simultaneous (as for local and elections) some voters have marked, say, 1-2-3 on one ballot paper and 4-5-6 on the other; some returning officers consequently allowed 4-5-6 ballots to be counted, until a Supreme Court case in 2015 ruled they were invalid.\n\nThe United States Election Assistance Commission's survey of the 2006 midterm elections reported undervoting rate of 0.1% in US Senate elections and 1.6% in US House elections; overvotes were much rarer. Some paper-based voting systems and most DRE voting machines can notify voters of under-votes and over-votes. The Help America Vote Act requires that voters are informed when they have overvoted, unless a paper-ballot voting system is in use.\n\n\nThis is the UK spoil your vote campaign\n"}
{"id": "12256616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12256616", "title": "The Insider's Guide to the Colleges", "text": "The Insider's Guide to the Colleges\n\nThe Insider's Guide to the Colleges is a college educational guide which has been published annually by the student editorial staff of the \"Yale Daily News\" for over three decades. It provides insight to prospective undergraduate students using first-hand accounts of attending students as well as an overview of the admissions process.\n\nThis guidebook offers information about 323 American Institutions of Higher Education. It includes information about public universities, private universities, and liberal arts colleges from all regions of the United States.\n\nInformation about each college and university is gathered entirely from student interviews. The editors (students themselves) note that their\n\nThe editors also offer what they refer to as the \"College Finder\" or \"Top Ten Lists.\" Of the methodology used to create these lists they note,\n\nThe guide offers an overview of the entire application process including college visits and the application process (including the interview). It also offers a chapter called \"The College Spectrum\" which offers suggested areas of consideration when choosing a college including size, location, the makeup of a school, whether to choose a professional or liberal arts curriculum and general concerns regarding \"quality of life.\" (34) There is also a section for students with disabilities as well as a glossary of terms related to the admissions process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2887667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2887667", "title": "Transition to the New Order", "text": "Transition to the New Order\n\nIndonesia's transition to the \"New Order\" in the mid-1960s, ousted the country's first president, Sukarno, after 22 years in the position. One of the most tumultuous periods in the country's modern history, it was the commencement of Suharto's 31-year presidency.\n\nDescribed as the great \"dhalang\" (\"puppet master\"), Sukarno drew power from balancing the opposing and increasingly antagonistic forces of the army and Indonesian Communist Party (PKI). By 1965, the PKI extensively penetrated all levels of government and gained influence at the expense of the army.\n\nOn 30 September 1965, six of the military's most senior officers were killed in an action (generally labelled an \"attempted coup\") by the so-called 30 September Movement, a group from within the armed forces. Within a few hours, Major General Suharto mobilised forces under his command and took control of Jakarta. Anti-communists, initially following the army's lead, went on a violent purge of communists throughout the country, killing an estimated half million people and destroying the PKI, which was officially blamed for the crisis.\n\nThe politically weakened Sukarno was forced to transfer key political and military powers to General Suharto, who had become head of the armed forces. In March 1967, the Indonesian parliament (MPRS) named General Suharto acting president. He was formally appointed president one year later. Sukarno lived under virtual house arrest until his death in 1970. In contrast to the stormy nationalism, revolutionary rhetoric, and economic failure that characterised the early 1960s under the left-leaning Sukarno, Suharto's pro-Western \"New Order\" stabilised the economy but continued the policies of Pancasila.\n\nNationalist leader Sukarno had declared Indonesian independence in 1945 and was appointed president. Following an internal national revolution and struggle against the former Dutch colonial government, Sukarno had managed to hold together the disparate country; however, his administration had not been able to provide a viable economic system to lift its citizens out of severe poverty. He stressed socialist policies domestically and an avidly anti-imperialist international policy, underpinned by an authoritarian style of rule dependent upon his charismatic personality. Pursuing an independent Indonesian foreign policy, Sukarno developed friendly ties with the Eastern Bloc, the People's Republic of China, whilst courting friendly relations with the United States at the same, in his efforts to maximise Indonesian bargaining power in its foreign policy. Sukarno was also a pioneering figure in developing the Non-Aligned Movement, playing a lead role in hosting the Bandung Conference in 1955. In Indonesia's domestic politics, Sukarno also carefully balanced Indonesia's various political parties, including the PKI.\n\nFrom the late 1950s, political conflict and economic deterioration worsened. By the mid-1960s, the cash-strapped government had to scrap critical public sector subsidies, estimates put annual inflation at 500-1,000%, export revenues were shrinking, infrastructure crumbling, and factories were operating at minimal capacity with negligible investment. Severe poverty and hunger were widespread, and Sukarno led his country in a military confrontation with Malaysia whilst stepping up revolutionary and anti-western rhetoric.\n\nDescribed as the great \"dhalang\" (\"puppet master\"), President Sukarno's position came to depend on balancing the opposing and increasingly hostile forces of the army and the PKI. His anti-imperial ideology saw Indonesia increasingly dependent on the Soviet Union and China. By 1965, at the height of the Cold War, the PKI penetrated all levels of government extensively. With the support of Sukarno and the air force, the party gained increasing influence at the expense of the army, thus ensuring the army's enmity. By late 1965, the army was divided between a left-wing faction allied with the PKI, and a right-wing faction that was being courted by the United States.\n\nThese same policies, however, won Sukarno few friends and many enemies in the Western world. These especially included the United States and United Kingdom, whose investors were increasingly angered by Sukarno's nationalisation of mineral, agricultural, and energy assets. In need of Indonesian allies in its Cold War against the Soviet Union, the United States cultivated a number of ties with officers of the military through exchanges and arms deals. This fostered a split in the military's ranks, with the United States and others backing a right-wing faction against a left-wing faction overlapping with the PKI.\n\nWhen Sukarno rejected food aid from USAID, thereby exacerbating famine conditions, the right-wing military adopted a regional command structure through which it could smuggle staple commodities to win the loyalty of the rural population. In an attempt to curtail the right-wing military's increasing power, the PKI and the left-wing military formed a number of peasant and other mass organisations.\n\nIn 1963, a policy of \"Konfrontasi\" (Confrontation) against the newly formed Federation of Malaysia was announced by the Sukarno regime. This further exacerbated the split between the left-wing and right-wing military factions, with the left-wing faction and the Communist Party taking part in guerrilla raids on the border with Malaysia, while the right-wing faction was largely absent from the conflict (whether by choice or orders of Sukarno is not clear).\n\nThe Confrontation further encouraged the West to seek ways to topple Sukarno, viewed as a growing threat to Southeast Asian regional stability (as with North Vietnam under the Domino theory). The deepening of the armed conflict, coming close to all-out warfare by 1965, both increased popular dissatisfaction with the Sukarno regime and strengthened the hand of the right-wing generals whose forces were still close to the centre of power in Jakarta.\n\nOn the night of 30 September–1 October 1965 six senior army generals were kidnapped and executed in Jakarta by a battalion of soldiers from the Presidential Guard in an \"attempted coup.\" The right faction among the top generals was wiped out, including the powerful Army Chief of Staff, Ahmad Yani. Around 2,000 troops from coup groups occupied three sides of Merdeka Square, and commanded the Presidential Palace, radio station, and telecommunications centre, but did not occupy the east side, site of Kostrad headquarters. Calling themselves the \"30 September Movement\", the group announced on radio around 7am that they were trying to stop a military coup backed by the US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) that was planned to remove Sukarno from power.\n\nThey claimed to have arrested several generals belonging to a conspiracy, the \"Council of Generals\", that had plotted a military coup against the government of President Sukarno. They further alleged that this coup was to take place on Armed Forces Day (5 October) with the backing of the CIA, and that the Council would then install themselves as a military junta. Furthermore, the soldiers proclaimed the establishment of a \"Revolutionary Council\" consisting of various well-known military officers and civilian leaders that would be the highest authority in Indonesia. Additionally, they declared President Sukarno's Dwikora Cabinet as invalid (\"demisioner\").\n\nAccording to one chief conspirator, Lt. Col. Latief, the Palace Guards had not attempted to kill or capture Major General Suharto, commander of Kostrad (Komando Strategi dan Cadangan TNI Angkatan Darat – the Army Strategic and Reserves Command), because he was considered a Sukarno loyalist. Suharto, along with the surviving General Nasution, made the counter-allegation that the G30S was a rebellious movement that sought to replace President Sukarno's government with a Communist government. Upon hearing of the radio announcement, Suharto and Nasution began consolidating their forces, successfully gaining the loyalty of Jakarta Garrison Commander Maj. Gen. Umar Wirahadikusumah and Colonel Sarwo Edhie Wibowo, the commander of army special forces RPKAD (Resimen Para Komando Angkatan Darat – the Army's Para-Commando Regiment).\n\nDuring the evening of 1 October, RPKAD soldiers recaptured RRI and Telecommunications Building without any resistance as the rebel soldiers had retreated back to Halim Air Force Base. RPKAD forces proceeded to attack Halim Perdanakusumah AF Base on the morning of 2 October, but was stopped by the rebel soldiers in a fierce gunbattle in which several fatalities were inflicted on both sides. A direct order from President Sukarno managed to secure the surrender of the rebel soldiers by noon, after which Suhartoist forces occupied the base. On 4 October, the generals' bodies were discovered at Halim and on 5 October (Armed Forces Day) a large public funeral was held.\n\nThe killing of the generals saw influence in the Army fall to those more willing to stand up to Sukarno and the Army's enemies on the left. After the assassinations of those generals, the highest-ranking officer in the Indonesian military, and third highest in the overall chain-of-command, was Defense Minister and Armed Forces Chief-of-Staff Gen. Abdul Haris Nasution, a member of the right-wing camp.\nOn 2 October, Suharto accepted Sukarno's order for him to take control of the army, but on the condition that Suharto personally have authority to restore order and security. 1 November formation of Kopkamtib (\"Komando Operasi Pemulihan Keamanan dan Keteriban\", or Operational Command for the Restoration of Security and Order), formalised this authority. However, on 5 October Sukarno moved to promote Maj. Gen. Pranoto Reksosamudra, considered a Sukarno loyalist, to Army Chief of Staff.\n\nAfter the promotion, \"The New York Times\" reported that an unnamed Western \"diplomatic report\" alleged that Pranoto was a former member of the PKI. Pranoto's alleged communism, as well as his timely promotion, led them to promote the view that the PKI and Sukarno conspired to assassinate the generals to consolidate their grip on power.\n\nIn the aftermath of the assassinations, however, Major Gen. Suharto and his KOSTRAD (Army Strategic Reserves) units were closest to Jakarta. By default, Suharto became the field general in charge of prosecution of the G30S. Later, at the insistence of Gen. Abdul Haris Nasution, Pranoto was removed and Suharto was promoted to Army Chief-of-Staff on 14 October 1965.\n\nIn early October, a military propaganda campaign began to sweep the country, successfully convincing both Indonesian and international audiences that it was a Communist coup, and that the murders were cowardly atrocities against Indonesian heroes. 30 September Movement was called \"Gestapu\" (from \"Gerakan September Tigapuluh\", \"30 September Movement\"). The Army, acting on orders by Suharto and supervised by Nasution, began a campaign of agitation and incitement to violence among Indonesian civilians aimed at the Communist community and toward President Sukarno himself. The PKI's denials of involvement had little effect. The regime was quickly destabilised, with the Army the only force left to maintain order.\n\nAt the funeral of Nasution's daughter Irma, Navy commander Admiral Eddy Martadinata gave Muslim leaders the signal to attack Communists. On 8 October, the PKI head office was ransacked and burned to the ground while firefighters stood by idly. They then marched demanding the dissolution of the Communist Party. The homes of senior party figures, including PKI chairman D. N. Aidit, M. H. Lukman and Nyoto were also torched. The army led campaign to purge Indonesian society, government and armed forces of the communist party and other leftist organisations. Leading PKI members were immediately arrested, some summarily executed.\n\nOn 18 October, a declaration was read over the army-controlled radio stations, banning the PKI. The ban included the party itself, and its youth and women's wings, peasant associations, intellectual and student groups, and the SOBSI union. At the time, it was not clear whether this ban applied only to Jakarta (by then controlled by the Army), or the whole Republic of Indonesia. However, the ban was soon used as a pretext for the Indonesian Army to go throughout the country carrying out extrajudicial punishments, including mass arrest and summary executions, against suspected leftists and Sukarno loyalists. As the violence spread, Sukarno issued orders to try to stop it, but he was ignored. He also refused to blame the PKI for the coup, let alone ban it as the Army demanded. However, although Suharto and Nasution were increasingly suspicious about Sukarno's role in the affair, the Army was reluctant to confront the president directly because of his still widespread popularity.\n\nBeginning in later October 1965, and feeding off pent-up communal hatreds, the Indonesian army and its civilian allies (especially Muslim vigilante groups) began to kill actual and suspected members and associates of the PKI. The U.S. government covertly supported the massacres, providing extensive lists of suspected communists to be targeted. The killings started in the capital Jakarta, spread to Central and East Java, and later Bali. Although killings occurred across Indonesia, the worst were in PKI strongholds of Central Java, East Java, Bali, and northern Sumatra. The massacres reached their peak over the remainder of the year before subsiding in the early months of 1966. The estimates of the death toll of the violence range from over 100,000 to 3 million, but most scholars accept a figure of around 500,000. Many others were also imprisoned and for the next ten years people were still being imprisoned as suspects. It is thought that as many as 1.5m were imprisoned at one stage or another. As a result of the purge, one of Sukarno's three pillars of support, the PKI, had been effectively eliminated by the other two, the military and political Islam.\n\nIn October 1965, students in Jakarta formed KAMI (\"Kesatuan Aksi Mahasiswa Indonesia\", Indonesian Students Action Front), which called for the banning of the PKI. It was soon joined by a host of similar organisations made up of high school students, workers, artists and labourers and the like. Other targets for the demonstrators were rising prices and government inefficiency. They also demonstrated against Subandrio, the foreign minister and head of the BPI intelligence agency and the number two man in the government.\n\nOn 10 January 1966, demonstrators, including KAMI, demonstrated in front of the Provisional legislature and announced what became known as the \"Three Demands of the People\" (\"Tritura\"):\n\nIn February 1966, as anti-communist demonstrations continued, Sukarno tried to placate Suharto by promoting him. On 21 February, he tried to regain the initiative by announcing a new cabinet, which included former Air Force chief Omar Dani, who had issued a statement on 1 October 1965 initially supporting the coup. More provocatively still, Sukarno fired General Nasution from his cabinet post. The new cabinet immediately became known as the Gestapu cabinet, after the acronym coined by the military for 30 September Movement.\n\nTwo days after the announcement, a huge crowd attempted to storm the presidential palace. The next day, while the new cabinet was being inaugurated, soldiers from the presidential guard opened fire on a crowd in front of the palace, killing student protester Arif Rachman Hakim, who was turned into a martyr and given a hero's funeral the following day.\n\nOn 8 March 1966, students managed to ransack the foreign ministry, and held it for five hours. They daubed slogans, one accusing Subandrio of murdering the generals, and drew graffiti showing Subandrio as a Pekingese dog (a reference to his perceived closeness to communist China) or hanging from gallows.\n\nSukarno then planned a three-day series of meetings to restore his authority. The first, on 10 March, involved the leaders of political parties. He managed to persuade them to sign a declaration warning against the undermining of presidential authority by student demonstrations. The second stage was a cabinet meeting planned for 11 March. However, as this meeting was underway, word reached Sukarno that unidentified troops were surrounding the palace. Sukarno left the palace in haste for Bogor, where later that night, he signed the Supersemar document transferring authority to restore order to Major General Suharto. Suharto acted quickly. One 12 March he banned the PKI. The same day, there was a \"show of force\" by the Army in the streets of Jakarta, which was watched by cheering crowds. On 18 March, Subandrio and 14 other ministers were arrested., including third deputy prime minister Chairul Saleh. That night, the radio announced that the ministers were in \"protective custody\".\n\nSuharto later admitted in his autobiography that he frequently liaised with the student protesters throughout this period and Sukarno often pleaded with him to stop the demonstrations.\n\nOn 27 March, the new cabinet line-up, agreed between Suharto and Sukarno, was announced. It included the key figures of Suharto himself as interim deputy prime minister for security and defence affairs, tasked with preventing the resurgence of communism, the Sultan of Yogyakarta Sri Sulan Hamengkubuwono IX as deputy prime minister for economic, financial and development affairs, tasked with solving the nation's economic problems and Adam Malik as deputy prime minister for social and political affairs, whose job it would be to manage foreign policy.\n\nOn 24 April 1966, Suharto gave a speech to members of the Indonesian National Party in which he spoke of the \"three deviations\" that would have to be corrected by the youth of the country in co-operation with the Armed Forces. These were:\n\nThe new regime turned away from China and began moves to end the Indonesia-Malaysia confrontation, in defiance of Sukarno's wishes.\n\nMeanwhile, Suharto and his allies continued to purge state institutions of Sukarno loyalists. The Tjakrabirawa palace guard was disbanded, and following further student demonstrations in front of the legislature building on 2 May, the leadership of the Mutual Cooperation House of Representatives (DPR-GR) was replaced and Sukarnoist and pro-communist members were suspended from the DPR-GR and the Provisional People's Consultative Assembly (MPRS), the supreme lawmaking body. Pro-Suharto replacements were appointed.\n\nA session of the MPRS was scheduled to open 12 May, but eventually began on 20 June and continued until 5 July. One of its first actions was to appoint General Abdul Haris Nasution as chairman. It then set about dismantling the apparatus Sukarno had built around himself. It passed several decrees, one of which was the ratification of the Supersemar, thus making revocation of it almost impossible. It also ratified the banning of the PKI and the teaching of Marxist ideology, instructed Suharto to form a new cabinet, called on Sukarno to provide an explanation for the economic and political situation in the nation and stripped him of the title \"president for life\". It also passed a decree stating that if the president was unable to carry out his duties, the holder of the Supersemar would assume the presidency. Suharto did not seek Sukarno's outright removal at this MPRS session due to the remaining support for the president amongst elements of the armed forces (particularly the Marines, the navy, and some regional army divisions).\n\nThe new cabinet, announced by Sukarno on 20 June, was led by a five-man presidium headed by Suharto, and including Malik and Sri Sultan Hamengkubuwono IX.\n\nOn 11 August, against the wishes of Sukarno, a peace treaty was signed, formerly ending \"Konfrontasi\". Indonesia announced it would rejoin the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and the United Nations. It released political prisoners and paid compensation to the British and American governments for the damage caused to their diplomatic buildings during the demonstrations of the Sukarno era.\n\nOn 17 August, in his annual independence day speech, Sukarno claimed that Indonesia was not about to recognise Malaysia nor rejoin the UN. He also stated that he had not transferred power to Suharto. This provoked an angry reaction in the form of demonstrations, and Indonesia did indeed rejoin the UN in September, participating in the General Assembly on 28 September. Meanwhile, criticism from demonstrators became increasingly vociferous and personal, and there were calls for him to be put on trial.\n\nOn 10 January 1967, Sukarno wrote to the MPRS, enclosing a document known as \"Nawaksara\" giving his version of the events surrounding the 30 September Movement. In it, he said the kidnappings and murders of the generals had been a \"complete surprise\" to him, and that he alone was not responsible for the nation's moral and economic problems. This led to demonstrators calling for Sukarno to be hanged.\n\nThe MPRS leadership met on 21 January and concluded that Sukarno had failed to fulfill his constitutional obligations. In a resolution passed on 9 February, the DPR-GR rejected the \" Nawaksara\" and asked the MPRS to convene a special session.\nOn 12 March 1967, the special session began. After heated debates, it agreed to strip Sukarno of his power. On 12 March, Suharto was appointed acting president. Sukarno went into \"de facto\" house arrest in Bogor. A year later, on 27 March 1968, another session of the MPRS appointed Suharto the second president of Indonesia.\n\nGeneral Nasution was believed to have launched his own bid for power on 16 December 1965, when he won appointment to the Supreme Operations Command, and gained a grip over the traditionally civilian-held portion of the military hierarchy. It was reported that Nasution would have preferred forming a military junta to replace Sukarno. (\"New York Times\", 16 December 1965.)\n\nWhile resentment toward Chinese Indonesians by indigenous Indonesians-descended peoples of the archipelago dated back to the Dutch East Indies era, the New Order instigated anti-Chinese legislation following the quashing of the Communists. Stereotypes of the Chinese as disproportionately affluent and greedy were common throughout the time (both in Indonesia as well as Malaysia), but with the anti-communist hysteria, the association of the Chinese Indonesians with the People's Republic of China caused them to also be viewed as a communist fifth column.\n\nIndonesia's hitherto friendly diplomatic relations with mainland China were severed, and the Chinese Embassy in Jakarta burnt down by a mob. New legislation included the banning of Chinese language signs on shops and other buildings, and the closure of Chinese language schools, adoption of \"Indonesian\" sounding names, and limits on Buddhist temple construction.\n\nThe liquidation and banning of the Communist Party (and related organisations) eliminated one of the largest political parties in Indonesia. It was also among the largest Communist Parties in the Comintern, at an estimated 3 million members. Along with the subsequent efforts by Suharto to wrest power from Sukarno by purging loyalists from the parliament, civilian government in Indonesia was effectively put to an end by the coup countermeasures.\n\nStrident anti-communism remained a hallmark of the 31-year regime.\n\nThe new regime that emerged from the upheavals of the 1960s was dedicated to maintaining political order, promoting economic development, and excluding mass participation from the political process. The military was given a strong role in politics, political and social organisations throughout the country were bureaucratised and corporatised, and a selective but effective and sometimes brutal repression was used against opponents of the regime.\n\nA number of seats in the Parliament were set-aside for the military under as part of the \"dwifungsi\" (dual function) doctrine. Under the system, the military took roles as administrators in all levels of government. The political parties not banned outright were consolidated into a single party, the Party of the Functional Groups (Indonesian: \"Partai Golongan Karya\"), more commonly known as Golkar. Though Suharto would allow for the formation of two non-Golkar parties, these were kept weak during his regime.\n\nThe purging of two secularist parties, the Nationalists and the Communists, had a notable side effect of giving greater space for the development of Islamism in Indonesia. This included liberal, conservative, and extremist groups practising Islam in Indonesia.\n\nThe change in regime brought a shift in policy that allowed USAID and other relief agencies to operate within the country. Suharto would open Indonesia's economy by divesting state owned companies, and Western nations in particular were encouraged to invest and take control of many of the mining and construction interests in Indonesia. The result was stabilisation of the economy and the alleviation of absolute poverty and famine conditions that had resulted from shortfalls in the rice supply and Sukarno's reluctance to take Western aid.\n\nAs a result of his elimination of the communists, Suharto would come to be seen as a pro-Western and anti-Communist. An ongoing military and diplomatic relationship between the Indonesia and the Western powers was cemented, leading to American, British, and Australian arms sales and training of military personnel.\n\nSome experts assert that the United States directly facilitated and encouraged the mass murder of hundreds of thousands of suspected Communists in Indonesia during the mid-1960s. Bradley Simpson, Director of the Indonesia/East Timor Documentation Project at the National Security Archive, says \"Washington did everything in its power to encourage and facilitate the army-led massacre of alleged PKI members, and U.S. officials worried only that the killing of the party's unarmed supporters might not go far enough, permitting Sukarno to return to power and frustrate the [Johnson] Administration's emerging plans for a post-Sukarno Indonesia.\" According to Simpson, the terror in Indonesia was an \"essential building block of the quasi neo-liberal policies the West would attempt to impose on Indonesia in the years to come\". Historian John Roosa, commenting on documents released from the US embassy in Jakarta in 2017, says they confirm that \"the U.S. was part and parcel of the operation, strategizing with the Indonesian army and encouraging them to go after the PKI.\" Geoffrey B. Robinson, historian at UCLA, argues that without the support of the U.S. and other powerful Western states, the Indonesian Army's program of mass killings would not have happened.\n\nAs early as 1958, the U.S. and its allies backed anti-communist elements within the Indonesian Army with secret assurances, financial and military support, and this support solidified once the mass killing campaigns were underway, demonstrating the \"resolve\" of the army. During the height of the violence, U.S. embassy official Robert J. Martens provided lists containing roughly 5,000 names of high ranking PKI members to the Indonesian Army, which, according to Robinson, \"almost certainly aided in the death or detention of many innocent people\". He notes that providing these kill lists \"sent a powerful message that the US government agreed with and supported the army's campaign against the PKI, even as that campaign took its terrible toll in human lives.\"\n\nThis period is depicted in the 1982 film \"The Year of Living Dangerously\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3906694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3906694", "title": "Unpopular Books", "text": "Unpopular Books\n\nUnpopular Books is a publisher in London's East End, producing leaflets, pamphlets and books.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46642543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46642543", "title": "Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar", "text": "Williams-Yulee v. Florida Bar\n\nWilliams-Yulee v. Florida Bar, 575 U.S. ___ (2015), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the First Amendment did not prohibit States from barring judges and judicial candidates from personally soliciting funds for their election campaigns since that specific restriction on candidate's speech was deemed to be narrowly tailored to serve the compelling interest of keeping the judiciary impartial.\n\n"}
{"id": "22372221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22372221", "title": "Yemeni list of most wanted suspected terrorists", "text": "Yemeni list of most wanted suspected terrorists\n\nYemen maintains a Yemeni list of most wanted suspected terrorists. \nOn March 30, 2009, Yemen added \"38 wanted Al Qaeda-linked militants\", bring the number of individuals on the list to 154.\nThe list includes 85 individuals who are also listed on the Saudi list of most wanted suspected terrorists.\n"}
