{"id": "312622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=312622", "title": "1999 Seattle WTO protests", "text": "1999 Seattle WTO protests\n\n1999 Seattle WTO protests, sometimes referred to as the Battle of Seattle, were a series of protests surrounding the WTO Ministerial Conference of 1999, when members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) convened at the Washington State Convention and Trade Center in Seattle, Washington on November 30, 1999. The Conference was to be the launch of a new millennial round of trade negotiations.\n\nThe negotiations were quickly overshadowed by massive and controversial street protests outside the hotels and the Washington State Convention and Trade Center. The protests were nicknamed \"N30\", akin to J18 and similar mobilizations. The large scale of the demonstrations, estimated at no less than 40,000 protesters, dwarfed any previous demonstration in the United States against a world meeting of any of the organizations generally associated with economic globalization (such as the WTO, the International Monetary Fund, or the World Bank).\n\nPlanning for the actions began months in advance and included local, national, and international organizations. Among the most notable participants were national and international nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) such as Global Exchange (especially those concerned with labor issues, the environment, and consumer protection), labor unions (including the AFL-CIO), student groups, religion-based groups (Jubilee 2000), and anarchists (some of whom formed a black bloc).\n\nThe coalition was loose, with some opponent groups focused on opposition to WTO policies (especially those related to free trade), with others motivated by prolabor, anticapitalist, or environmental agendas. Many of the NGOs represented at the protests came with credentials to participate in the official meetings, while also planning various educational and press events. The AFL-CIO, with cooperation from its member unions, organized a large permitted rally and march from Seattle Center to downtown.\nHowever, others were more interested in taking direct action, including both civil disobedience and acts of vandalism and property destruction to disrupt the meeting. Several groups were loosely organized together under the Direct Action Network (DAN), with a plan to disrupt the meetings by blocking streets and intersections downtown to prevent delegates from reaching the convention center, where the meeting was to be held. The black bloc was not affiliated with DAN, but was responding to the original call for autonomous resistance actions on November 30 issued by People's Global Action.\n\nOf the different coalitions that aligned in protest were the \"teamsters and turtles\" - a blue-green alliance consisting of the teamsters (trade unions) and environmentalists.\n\nCertain activists, including locals and an additional group of anarchists from Eugene, Oregon (where they had gathered that summer for a music festival), advocated more confrontational tactics, and conducted vandalism of corporate properties in downtown Seattle. In a subsequent communique, they listed the particular corporations targeted, which they considered to have committed corporate crime.\n\nOn July 12, the \"Financial Times\" reported that the latest United Nations Human Development report advocated \"principles of performance for multinationals on labour standards, fair trade and environmental protection ... needed to counter the negative effects of globalisation on the poorest nations\". The report itself argued, \"An essential aspect of global governance is responsibility to people—to equity, to justice, to enlarging the choices of all\".\n\nOn July 16, Helene Cooper of the \"Wall Street Journal\" warned of an impending \"massive mobilization against globalization\" being planned for the end-of-year Seattle WTO conference. Next day, the London \"Independent\" newspaper savaged the WTO and appeared to side with the organizers of the rapidly developing storm of protest:\n\nThe way it has used [its] powers is leading to a growing suspicion that its initials should really stand for World Take Over. In a series of rulings it has struck down measures to help the world's poor, protect the environment, and safeguard health in the interests of private—usually American—companies.\"\n\n\"The WTO seems to be on a crusade to increase private profit at the expense of all other considerations, including the well-being and quality of life of the mass of the world's people,\" says Ronnie Hall, trade campaigner at Friends of the Earth International. \"It seems to have a relentless drive to extend its power.\"\n\nOn November 16, two weeks before the conference, President Bill Clinton issued Executive Order 13141—Environmental Review of Trade Agreements, which committed the United States to a policy of \"assessment and consideration of the environmental impacts of trade agreements\" and stated, \"Trade agreements should contribute to the broader goal of sustainable development.\"\n\nActivists staged a spoof of Seattle's daily paper, the \"Post-Intelligencer,\" on Wednesday November 24, inserting thousands of hoax editions of a four-page front-page wrap-around into piles of newspapers awaiting distribution to hundreds of street boxes and retail outlets. The spoof front-page stories were \"Boeing to move overseas\" (to Indonesia) and \"Clinton pledges help for poorest nations\". The byline on the Boeing story attributed it to Joe Hill (a union organizer who had been executed by firing squad in Utah in 1915). On the same day, the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development reported:\n\ndeveloping countries have remained steadfast in their demand that developed countries honour Uruguay Round commitments before moving forward full force with new trade negotiations.\n\nSpecifically, developing countries are concerned over developed countries' compliance with agreements on market access for textiles, their use of antidumping measures against developing countries' exports, and over-implementation of the WTO Agreement on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs).\n\nThis ominously foreshadowed the impending conflict of the North-South divide which was to result in the collapse of the forthcoming WTO talks.\n\nPrevious mass protests against APEC summits in Vancouver, Canada and Manila, the Philippines also provided information about globalization policies, free trade and the situation in developing countries that likely encouraged further protests to confront international economic forums. In 1997, the APEC Canada meeting was held at the University of British Columbia (UBC) campus on November 24 and 25 in Vancouver. Protesters on the campus and in downtown Vancouver were treated with some repressive measures by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police while they were experiencing splits among themselves on questions of tactics and the limits of civil disobedience. That mass response of a few thousand included leaders of protests previously held in Manila where APEC had held a summit in 1996, when 10's of thousands of labor, peasant and social justice groups had marched to oppose free trade. UBC may have welcomed the filming of \"Battle in Seattle\" on its grounds in the light of this past. (Submitted by a witness who participated in the Vancouver anti-APEC actions and the Seattle anti-WTO actions, and referred to Wikipedia's pages on \"APEC Canada 1997\" and \"APEC Philippines 1996\".)\n\nOn the morning of Tuesday November 30, 1999, the DAN's plan was put into effect. Several hundred activists arrived in the deserted streets near the convention center and began to take control of key intersections. Over the next few hours, a number of marchers began to converge on the area from different directions. These included a student march from the north, a march of citizens of the developing world who marched in from the south and, beginning around 09:00, militant anarchists (in a formation known as a black bloc) marching down Pike Street from 6th Avenue, blockading the streets with newspaper boxes and smashing windows. Some demonstrators held rallies, others held teach-ins and at least one group staged an early-morning street party. Meanwhile, a number of protesters still controlled the intersections using lockdown formations.\n\nThe control of the intersections, plus the sheer numbers of protesters in the area, prevented delegates from getting from their hotels to the convention center. It also had the effect of cutting the police forces in two: the police who had formed a cordon around the convention center were cut off from the rest of the city. The police outside of the area eventually tried to break through the protesters' lines in the south.\n\nThat morning, the King County Sheriff's Office and Seattle Police Department fired pepper spray, tear gas canisters, and stun grenades at protesters at several intersections in an attempt to reopen the blocked streets and allow as many WTO delegates as possible through the blockade. At 6th Avenue and Union Street, the crowd threw objects back at the police.\n\nBy late morning, the black bloc had swelled to 200 people and smashed dozens of shops and police cars. This seems to have set off a chain reaction of sorts, with previously nonviolent protesters throwing bottles at police and joining in the vandalism shortly before noon. Some protesters tried to physically obstruct the activities of the black bloc, however, Seattle police (led by Chief Norm Stamper) did not react immediately. Protest organizers convinced Seattle police during the protest-permit process, that peaceful organizers would quell these kinds of activities.\n\nThe police were eventually overwhelmed by the mass of protesters downtown, including many who had chained themselves together and were blocking intersections. Meanwhile, the late-morning labor-organized rally and march drew tens of thousands; though the intended march route had them turning back before they reached the convention center, some ignored the marshals and joined what had become a chaotic scene downtown.\nAt noon, the opening ceremony at the convention center was officially cancelled. It took police much of the afternoon and evening to clear the streets. Seattle mayor Paul Schell declared a state of emergency, imposed a curfew, and a 50-block \"no-protest zone\".\n\nOvernight, the Governor Gary Locke called in two battalions of National Guardsmen, other law enforcement agencies sent support, and before daylight on Wednesday, troops and officers lined the perimeter of the no-protest zone. Police surrounded and arrested several groups of would-be protesters (and more than one bystander). Beginning at 21:00, a major clash took place on Broadway in the vicinity of Denny Way, involving rocks, bottles, and police concussion grenades. It did not involve a black bloc, but appears to have included local residents, although it is known that many local residents were treated as protesters, even being teargassed, despite having no part in the protests. Police called in from other cities mistook the typically crowded streets of Capitol Hill as groups of protesters. More than 500 people were jailed on Wednesday. Throughout the day, police used tear gas to disperse crowds downtown, although a permitted demonstration organized by the Steelworkers Union was held along the waterfront.\n\n\"The New York Times\" printed an erroneous article that stated that protesters at the 1999 WTO convention in Seattle threw Molotov cocktails at police. Two days later, \"The New York Times\" printed a correction saying that the protest was mostly peaceful and no protesters were accused of throwing objects at delegates or the police, but the original error persisted in later accounts in the mainstream media.\n\nThe Seattle City Council also dispelled these rumors with its own investigation findings:\nThe level of panic among police is evident from radio communication and from their inflated crowd estimates, which exceed the numbers shown on news videotapes. ARC investigators found the rumors of \"Molotov cocktails\" and sale of flammables from a supermarket had no basis in fact. But, rumors were important in contributing to the police sense of being besieged and in considerable danger.\n\nAn article in the magazine \"The Nation\" disputed that Molotov cocktails have ever been thrown at an antiglobalization protest within the US. Video shot by anarchists at Seattle does show some protesters throwing debris at police.\n\nThough media coverage of the Battle in Seattle condemned the violence of many protesters, the nature of this violence has justified its use to some people. Specifically, the violence employed was symbolic violence: that is, \"acts directed toward property, not people.\"\nThough many still denounced the violent tactics used by protesters of the 1999 WTO meeting in Seattle, this violence clearly resulted in increased media coverage of the event. The WTO meeting had an increase in evening news airtime from 10 minutes and 40 seconds on the first day of the meeting to 17 minutes on the first day of violence. In addition, WTO coverage was the lead or second story on CNN, ABC, CBS, and NBC after violence was reported. Two days after the start of violence, the meeting remained the top story on three of the four networks. Though these numbers alone are telling, the media coverage of subsequent demonstrations that did not include violence by protesters shows even more the effect of violence on coverage. For example, the World Bank/International Monetary Fund (WB/IMF) meetings in the spring showed a \"coverage pattern that was almost the reverse of that in Seattle\" and that \"suggests the crucial role of violence in garnering time on the public screen.\" In an even more striking example of the effects of violence on media coverage, the 2001 WTO meeting in Doha, Qatar, included no reports of violence. As a result, \"there was absolutely no TV evening news coverage by the four major networks.\"\n\nThis coverage did not center exclusively on the violence. Instead, details of the protesters' message and antiglobalization campaign were included along with the discussions of symbolic violence taking place. DeLuca believes the violence served as a dense surface that opened viewers' and readers' minds to a whole new way of thinking about globalization and corporations' operations. That is, not only was this violence contained within the familiar setting of television, and not only did it meet the criteria of being dramatic and emotional enough to warrant air time, but it also shattered preconceived notions of globalization and the practices of corporations that drive so much of America's economy.\n\nTo many in North American anarchist and radical circles, the Seattle WTO riots, protests, and demonstrations were viewed as a success. Prior to the \"Battle of Seattle\", almost no mention was made of \"antiglobalization\" in the US media, while the protests were seen as having forced the media to report on 'why' anybody would oppose the WTO.\n\nPrevious mass demonstrations had taken place in Australia in December 1997, in which newly formed grass-roots organizations blockaded Melbourne, Perth, Sydney, and Darwin city centers.\n\nControversy over the city's response to the protests resulted in the resignation of the police chief of Seattle, Norm Stamper, and arguably played a role in Schell's loss to Greg Nickels in the 2001 mayoral primary election. The massive size of the protest added $3 million to the city's estimated meeting budget of $6 million, partly due to city cleanup and police overtime bills. In addition, the damage to commercial businesses from vandalism and lost sales has been estimated at $20 million.\n\nOn January 16, 2004, the city of Seattle settled with 157 individuals arrested outside of the no-protest zone during the WTO events, agreeing to pay them a total of $250,000. On January 30, 2007, a federal jury found that the city had violated protesters' Fourth Amendment constitutional rights by arresting them without probable cause or evidence.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29323684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29323684", "title": "2010 Tibetan language protest", "text": "2010 Tibetan language protest\n\nThe 2010 Tibetan language protest was a series of protests in Tongren County, Gonghe County and Maqên County, in Qinghai Province; Minzu University of China in Beijing; and Xiahe County in Gansu Province, People's Republic of China by ethnic Tibetan students over the period of October 20 through October 27, 2010.\n\n\nA range of reports from hundreds to 9000 people were alleged to have been involved in the protest. According to a local Tibetan blogger, the head of the county’s education department drove out and assured the protesters that \"their grievances would be addressed by senior officials\".\nA series of apparently related protests inspired by this took place in Gonghe County on October 20; in Maqên County in the neighboring Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture on October 21; in Xiahe County on October 25. 400 Tibetan students also staged a supportive demonstration on October 22 on the campus of Minzu University of China in Beijing.\n\nOn Oct. 29, the Government of Qinghai said these incidents reflect some misunderstandings of the bilingual education policy by Tibetan people and reiterated that \"The guiding ideology and the basic principles of strengthening and improving the bilingual education is completely correct\" and that \"as the state is promoting the use of Standard Mandarin and Chinese characters, the right of using the local minority languages by minority peoples should be sufficiently respected and protected\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4866536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866536", "title": "American Society for Public Administration", "text": "American Society for Public Administration\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration (ASPA) is a membership association of almost 10,000 professionals in the United States sponsoring conferences and providing professional services primarily to those who study the implementation of government policy, public administration, and, to a lesser degree, programs of civil society. Its annual conference is an important meeting for those interested in bureaucracy, civic engagement, program evaluation, public management and other public administration topics, such as budgeting and budget theory, government strategic planning, policy analysis, contract administration, personnel management, and related topics.\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration was founded in 1939, following growing concerns about the management of federal government and the report of the Brownlow Committee. It was formally incorporated on September 13, 1945.\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration sponsors the journal \"Public Administration Review\", Journal of Health and Human Services Administration, Public Budgeting and Finance, and other leading international journals related to its over 30 working membership sections (e.g., Section on Public Performance and Management, Section on Women in Public Administration, Section on the Environment and Natural Resources Administration, Section on Intergovernmental Management and Administration).\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration was founded in 1939 by Louis Brownlow, William E. Mosher, Donald C. Stone, Charles A. Beard, Harold D. Smith, Luther Gulick, and others. During its early years, American Society for Public Administration was housed in the Public Administration Clearing House (PACH) in Chicago.\n\nSignificant events in American Society for Public Administration's history include:\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration's membership declined from about 14,000 members in 1990 to 8,383 members in 2007. However, during that period the Society took \"steps to address its most serious issues: attracting and retaining members, dealing with structure and funding, developing a coherent mission, strengthening chapters and sections, sponsoring successful conferences, enhancing its publication offerings, and working effectively with other organizations concerned with public administration and public service.\" American Society for Public Administration membership was affected by the tendency of government to hire local governmental personnel, and the change from government provision of services to contracting to the private and non-profit sectors. However, the field of public administration is the sole academic field given the responsibility for areas ranging from government budgeting at the United States budget levels, community development throughout all localities and states in the United States, and personnel management of all United States workforces, among others.\n\nThe presidents of American Society for Public Administration have been:\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration sponsors over twenty awards for practitioners and scholars of public administration, of which the longest-running are the Dwight Waldo and Charles Levine awards.\n\nThe Dwight Waldo Award is presented to individuals \"who have made outstanding contributions to the professional literature of public administration over an extended career.\" Recipients have included:\nThe Charles Levine Memorial Award for Excellence in Public Administration is presented jointly by American Society for Public Administration and the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration to \"a public administration faculty member who has demonstrated excellence in three major areas of the field of teaching, research and service to the wider community.\" Recipients have included:\nTodd W. Argow Student Scholarship Award is presented to a student who\nhas demonstrated academic scholarship and exceptional leadership potential in the field of\nPublic Administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15842810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15842810", "title": "Anna Lappé", "text": "Anna Lappé\n\nAnna Lappé is an author and educator, known for her work as an expert on food systems and as a sustainable food advocate. The co-author or author of three books and the contributing author to over ten others, Anna's work has been widely translated internationally and featured in \"The New York Times\", \"Gourmet\", \"O, The Oprah Magazine\", \"Domino\", \"Food & Wine\", \"Body+Soul\", \"Natural Health\", \"Utne Reader\", and \"Vibe\", among other outlets. With her mother Frances Moore Lappé, Anna co-founded the Cambridge-based Small Planet Institute, an international network for research and popular education about the root causes of hunger and poverty. The Lappés are also co-founders of the Small Planet Fund, which has raised nearly $1 million for democratic social movements worldwide, two of which have won the Nobel Peace Prize since the Fund's founding in 2002. Anna's research on sustainable agriculture has taken her from Brooklyn to South Korea, China, Bangladesh, India, Poland, France, Italy, Mali, Kenya, South Africa, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Brazil, Mexico, Canada, and beyond.\n\nHer current project, Food MythBusters, is a new collaborative project to bust myths about industrial agriculture and share the positive story of sustainable farming through creative movies, an online action center, and grassroots events. Food MythBusters is an initiative of the Real Food Media Project, directed by Anna Lappé, and whose mission is to inspire, educate, and grow the movement for sustainable food and farming. A project of Corporate Accountability International, the Food MythBusters coalition includes some of the most important food and farming organizations in the country, including Land Stewardship Project, Family Farm Defenders, Food Tank, Coalition of Immokalee Workers, Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy, Food and Water Watch, Food Chain Workers Alliance, Real Food Challenge, Slow Food USA, Small Planet Institute, and Sustainable Table.\n\nHer latest book, \"Diet for a Hot Planet: The Climate Crisis at the End of Your Fork and What You Can Do About It\" (Bloomsbury, 2010), was named by Booklist and Kirkus as one of the best environmental books of the year. Anna is also the co-author of \"Hope's Edge\" (Tarcher/Penguin 2002), which chronicles social movements fighting hunger around the world, and \"Grub: Ideas for an Urban Organic Kitchen\" (Tarcher/Penguin, 2006), showcasing the ecological and social benefits of sustainable food with seasonal menus from chef Bryant Terry.\n\nShe is the daughter of author Frances Moore Lappé and toxicologist Marc Lappe. Anna holds an M.A. in Economic and Political Development from Columbia University's School of International and Public Affairs and graduated with honors from Brown University. From 2004 to 2006, she was a Food and Society Fellow, a national program of the W. K. Kellogg Foundation. In 2010, she was the first \"Innovator\" with the Glynwood Institute for Sustainable Food and Farming. Among other consulting and advisory roles, Anna is an active board member of Rainforest Action Network and an advisor to the International Fund to Amplify Agro-Ecological Solutions. Born in Yonkers, she lives in the Bay Area with her husband and daughters.\n\nAnna's writing and advocacy have earned her numerous accolades. In 2009, \"The New York Times Magazine\" featured Anna among a handful of \"food fighters\". In 2007, she was chosen by the Missing Peace Project for the Compassion in Action Award and in 2006 Anna was selected for Contribute magazine's \"21 Under 40 Making a Difference\" and \"Time\" magazine's \"Eco\" Who's Who.\n\n\nLappé has also contributed to the following books:\n\n\nAnna's writing has been published in \"The Washington Post\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", \"The Guardian\", \"Los Angeles Times\", \"International Herald Tribune\", and Canada's \"The Globe and Mail\", among others. She wrote a bi-monthly column on sustainability for Spirituality & Health Magazine and has contributed book reviews for the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" and \"New Scientist\". In 2006, Lappe was a consulting editor for a special issue on food for \"The Nation\" and has consulted with Heifer International on their magazine, \"World Ark\".\n\nA frequent public speaker, in the past decade Anna has participated in more than 500 events, from community food festivals to university lectures to emceeing a food-focused fundraiser at Sotheby's. She has been a keynote speaker and guest lecturer at dozens of colleges and universities, including Boston College, the University of Colorado, Boulder, University of California, Santa Cruz, Dominican University, Brown University, Dickinson College, University of Montana at Missoula, University of Texas at El Paso, Columbia University, Gallatin School at NYU, Yale University, Eckerd College in Florida, and many more.\n\nAnna can be seen as the co-host of the public television series, \"The Endless Feast\" and as a featured expert on PBS's \"Need to Know\", the Sundance Channel's Big Ideas for a Small Planet and the PBS documentary, \"Nourish\". Anna is a regular guest on nationally syndicated radio shows and has been on hundreds of radio programs, including National Public Radio's \"Weekend Edition\", \"The Diane Rehm Show\", and WNYC's \"Brian Lehrer Show\" and \"Leonard Lopate Show\".\n\nAnna is an active board member of Rainforest Action Network and serves informally in an advisory capacity to a number of grassroots media organizations and documentary films. Anna is a former board member of the Center for Media and Democracy, the Community Food Security Coalition (2005–2006) and b-healthy (Build Healthy Eating and Lifestyles to Help Youth), a New York City-based non-profit organization (2004–2006).\n\n"}
{"id": "17829207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17829207", "title": "Clark Martell", "text": "Clark Martell\n\nClark Reid Martell (born December 23, 1960) is an American white supremacist, the former leader of Chicago Area SkinHeads (CASH), which was founded by six skinheads under his leadership in year 1987 the first organized neo-Nazi white power skinhead group in the United States. The group was also called Romantic Violence, and was the first US distributor of Skrewdriver records and tapes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2762154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2762154", "title": "Corporate statism", "text": "Corporate statism\n\nCorporate statism, state corporatism, or simply corporatism, is a political culture and a form of corporatism closely related to fascism whose adherents hold that the corporate group which is the basis of society is the state. The state requires all members of a particular economic sector to join an officially designated interest group. Such interest groups thus attain public status, and they participate in national policymaking. The result is that the state has great control over the groups, and groups have great control over their members.\n\nAs with other political cultures, societies have existed historically which exemplified corporate statism, for instance as developed by Othmar Spann and Benito Mussolini.\n\nCorporate statism most commonly manifests itself as a ruling party acting as a mediator between the workers, capitalists and other prominent state interests by institutionally incorporating them into the ruling mechanism. Corporatist systems were most prevalent in the mid-20th Century in Europe and later elsewhere in developing countries. According to this critique, interests, both social and economic, are so diverse that a state cannot possibly mediate between them effectively through incorporating them. Social conflicts go beyond incorporated dichotomies of labor and capital to include innumerable groups. Furthermore, globalization presents challenges, both social and economic, that a corporate state cannot sufficiently address because these problems transcend state borders and approaches. It therefore differs from Corporate nationalism in that it is a social mode of organization rather than an economic nationalism through private business corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "53850446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53850446", "title": "Daphne Caruana Galizia", "text": "Daphne Caruana Galizia\n\nDaphne Anne Caruana Galizia (\"née\" Vella; 26 August 1964 – 16 October 2017) was a Maltese journalist, writer, and anti-corruption activist, who reported on political events in Malta. In particular, she focused on investigative reporting into government corruption, nepotism, patronage, allegations of money laundering, links between Malta's online gambling industry and organised crime, Malta's citizenship-by-investment scheme, and payments from the government of Azerbaijan. Caruana Galizia's national and international reputation was built on her regular reporting of misconduct by Maltese politicians and politically exposed persons. For decades, she refused to give up on her reporting despite intimidation and threats, libels and other lawsuits. Caruana Galizia was arrested by the Malta Police Force on two occasions.\n\nReaders' main access to her investigations was through her personal blog \"Running Commentary\", which she set up in 2008. She was a regular columnist with \"The Sunday Times of Malta\" and later \"The Malta Independent\". Her blog consisted of investigative reporting and commentary, some of which was regarded as personal attacks on individuals, leading to a series of legal battles. In 2016 and 2017, she revealed controversial and sensitive information along with allegations relating to a number of Maltese politicians and the Panama Papers scandal.\n\nOn 16 October 2017, Caruana Galizia died in a car bomb attack close to her home, attracting widespread local and international reactions. In December 2017, three men were arrested in connection with her murder. In April 2018, a consortium of 45 international journalists published \"The Daphne Project\", a collaboration to complete her investigative work.\n\nDaphne Anne Vella was born on 26 August 1964 in Sliema. She was the eldest of three sisters born to the businessman Michael Alfred Vella and his wife Rose Marie Vella (née Mamo). Her paternal grandfather, Louis Vella, was the chairman of the National Bank of Malta when it was expropriated by Maltese Prime Minister Dom Mintoff in 1973. Her paternal uncle, Colonel Victor George Vella OBE, CMG, was Secretary to the Imperial Government in Malta and later Commissioner-General for Malta in London. Her maternal grandfather co-founded Galdes & Mamo in 1947 (which later became the insurance business GasanMamo). Her maternal uncle, Wilfred Mamo, who was lost at sea in the Esmeralda tragedy, was President of Neptunes WPSC. Through her father she was a direct descendant of Maltese patriot Capt. Salvatore Vella, who together with his brother Michele Vella, played a crucial role in the uprising against Napoleon's forces in the Siege of Malta (1798–1800), and an indirect descendant of the baroque composer Nicolas Isouard and the Romantic painters Edward and Robert Caruana Dingli. \n\nShe was educated at St Dorothy's Convent (Mdina) and St Aloysius' College, Birkirkara. She attended the University of Malta as a mature student and took a BA (Hons) in Archaeology with a minor in Anthropology in 1997, featuring on the Dean's List in 1996. \n\nCaruana Galizia was politicised by her late teens, and was first arrested when she was 18 years old. She was held in detention for 48 hours following her participation in a pro-democracy protest. The policeman who arrested her, Angelo Farrugia, went on to become the speaker of the Maltese parliament. Caruana Galizia held a strong antipathy to the Maltese Labour Party, holding that Dom Mintoff's rule was a disaster for Malta. \n\nIn 1985 she married the lawyer Peter Caruana Galizia, a grandson of John Caruana and a great-grandson of E.L. Galizia and A.A. Caruana, and they had three sons, Matthew, Andrew and Paul. Matthew is a member of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. The family left Sliema in 1990, moving to Bidnija, a hamlet in the limits of Mosta.\n\nAfter deciding to become a journalist, she landed a job with \"The Sunday Times of Malta\" as a news reporter in 1987, and she was a regular columnist from 1990 to 1992 and again from 1993 to 1996. She was an associate editor of \"The Malta Independent\" in 1992, and remained a columnist with that newspaper and \"The Malta Independent on Sunday\" until her death. She also worked in media and public relations consultancy. Caruana Galizia was also the founding editor of \"Taste\" and \"Flair\", monthly lifestyle magazines which were distributed along with \"The Malta Independent on Sunday\". They were merged into a single magazine entitled \"Taste&Flair\" in July 2014, and Caruana Galizia remained editor until her death.\n\nIn 2008 she set up a blog entitled \"Running Commentary\", which included investigative reporting and commentary on a number of people, some of which were labelled as personal attacks. The blog was one of the most popular websites in Malta, regularly attracting over 400,000 views - more than the combined circulation of the country's newspapers.\n\nCaruana Galizia was harassed relentlessly and intimidated for her work and opinions. The front door of her house was set on fire in 1996. The family dog had its throat slit and was laid across her doorstep. Years later, the neighbour's car was burned, probably in a misdirected attack. In 2006, two stacks of car tyres were placed, doused with petrol and set alight next to the family house. The fire was stopped before it took hold by Paul Caruana Galizia who woke his parents, who were asleep inside. After Caruana Galizia started her blog, her terrier Zulu was poisoned and her collie Rufus was put down after being found shot.\n\nAccording to Matthew Caruana Galizia, death threats were almost a daily occurrence. These took the form of phone calls, letters, notes pinned to the front door, text messages, emails, and comments on her blog. Caruana Galizia's controversial blog posts also resulted in several protracted legal battles. By the time of her death, she was involved in legal proceedings with twelve persons, in 42 different libel suits. \n\nA legal fund was crowdfunded to cover four precautionary warrants - freezing her assets to the tune of €50,000 - for the maximum libel damages possible at law. These were instituted by the Deputy Leader of the Labour Party and Minister for the Economy, Chris Cardona, and his EU presidency policy officer, Joseph Gerada.\n\nIn 2010, she criticised Magistrate Consuelo Scerri Herrera on her blog, who then opened a libel and defamation case against her. The case was withdrawn in November 2011. \n\nShe was arrested on 8 March 2013 for breaking the political silence on the day before the 2013 general election, after she posted videos mocking Joseph Muscat. She was questioned by the police before being released after a few hours. In November 2010, after commenting about the conservation of the former home of Queen Elizabeth II, Galizia was described by \"The Daily Telegraph\" as the leading commentator in Malta. Other major stories and controversies centered around Panama Papers revelations and allegations that Chris Cardona had visited a brothel during an official government visit in Germany in January 2017.\n\nIn 2016, Caruana Galizia questioned how British millionaire Paul Golding got rich and acquired Palazzo Nasciaro in Naxxar. From mid-2017 Caruana Galizia became a harsh critic of the new Nationalist opposition leader Adrian Delia, over claims that he had laundered money for a company involved in a prostitution ring in Soho.\n\nCaruana Galizia was the first person to learn of the Panamanian companies before the Panama Papers leak of April 2016.\n\nOn 22 February, she hinted on \"Running Commentary\" that Maltese government minister Konrad Mizzi had connections with Panama and New Zealand. This compelled the minister to reveal the existence of a New Zealand-registered trust, two days later, which he claimed was set up to manage his family's assets. On 25 February, Caruana Galizia revealed that Prime Minister Joseph Muscat's chief of staff, Keith Schembri, owned a similar trust in New Zealand which in turn held a Panama company.\n\nThe April 2016 leak confirmed that Mizzi owned the Panama company Hearnville Inc, and that Mizzi and Schembri had also opened another company, Tillgate Inc. The companies were also owned by the Orion Trust New Zealand Limited, which are the same trustees of Mizzi and Schembri's New Zealand trusts, Rotorua and Haast respectively.\n\nAs the first person to break news of Mizzi's and Schembri's involvement in Panama, she was subsequently named by \"Politico\" as one of \"28 people who are shaping, shaking and stirring Europe.\" \n\n\"Politico\" described her as a \"one-woman WikiLeaks, crusading against untransparency and corruption in Malta.\"\n\nIn 2017, she alleged that Egrant, another Panama company, was owned by Michelle Muscat, wife of Prime Minister Joseph Muscat. These allegations are what ostensibly compelled Muscat to call the June 2017 general elections, which saw Muscat's Labour Party return to power, though Caruana Galizia believed he had other motives.\n\nAt around 3 pm on 16 October 2017, Caruana Galizia died in a car bomb attack on her leased Peugeot 108, while she was driving close to her home in Bidnija. \n\nThe explosion left the vehicle scattered in several pieces across nearby fields. She was in the driver's seat at the time. Her remains were found by her son Matthew, 80 meters away from the blast site, after he heard a blast from their family home. He wrote on Facebook: “I looked down and there were my mother’s body parts all around me”. Her death marks the sixth car-bombing in Malta since the beginning of 2016, the first one where the victim was not a known criminal and the fourth fatality.\n\nCaruana Galizia had reportedly filed a police report saying that she was being threatened about two weeks before her death. Barring during elections, her home had not been under police guard since 2010. According to police sources, her protection was further relaxed after the Labour party was returned to power in 2013. Her last blog post before leaving in her car read, “There are crooks everywhere you look now. The situation is desperate.\"\n\nHer family criticised the Maltese authorities for doing nothing against a growing \"culture of impunity\" in Malta, saying that Joseph Muscat, Keith Schembri, Chris Cardona, Konrad Mizzi, Attorney General Peter Grech and a long list of police commissioners who took no action, were complicit in her death. Her family refused a request to publicly endorse a government reward of one million euros for information, despite pressure from the Prime Minister and President, and insisted that the Prime Minister ought to resign. \n\nOne of Caruana Galizia's sisters insisted that \"the President and the Prime Minister are “downplaying” the assassination and “working to transform her into a martyr for their cause,” indicating that calls for national unity were a sham, and that to \"call for unity is to abuse her legacy. There should never be unity with the criminal and the corrupt.\"\n\nThe car bomb attack was condemned by Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, who stated that he \"will not rest before justice is done\" despite her criticism of him. President Marie Louise Coleiro Preca, Archbishop Charles Scicluna and a number of politicians also expressed their condolences or condemned the murder. Opposition leader Adrian Delia called her death \"the collapse of democracy and freedom of expression\" and stated that \"[the country's] institutions have let us down\". Fellow blogger Manuel Delia, a former PN official, called her \"the only ethical voice left. She was the only one talking about right and wrong.\" The President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker and the European Commission condemned the attack in the strongest terms possible. \n\nThe President of the European Parliament Antonio Tajani called the death a \"tragic example of a journalist who sacrificed her life to seek out the truth.\" Gerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, stated that the organization is \"shocked\" by Caruana Galizia's death and \"is deeply concerned about freedom of the press in Malta.\"\n\nA plenary session of the European Parliament was held on 24 October, with MEPs observing a minute’s silence. Several members of Caruana Galizia's family attended the session at the hemicycle in Strasbourg. The press room at the European parliament building was renamed in her honour. A debate on freedom of the press and the protection of journalists in Malta also took place. Following this visit and the following debate, a delegation is to be sent by the European Parliament to investigate the rule of law, high-level cases of money laundering and corruption in Malta.\n\nPope Francis sent a letter of condolence, saying he is praying for the journalist’s family and the Maltese people.\n\nThe car bombing was reported in both local and international media. Caruana Galizia's name began trending worldwide on Twitter, and a number of Maltese expressed their mourning by blacking out their Facebook profile pictures. The hashtag #JeSuisDaphne, echoing the term Je suis Charlie, trended locally.\n\n\"The Malta Independent\" wrote that “for many people, looking up her blog was the first thing they did each day, and the last thing too. Now there is just emptiness. A silence that speaks volumes.” Both the daily and the weekly version of her column were published as blank pages in the days following her murder.\n\nThousands of people attended a vigil in Caruana Galizia's hometown Sliema on the night of 16 October. Another vigil was held at the Malta High Commission in London. \n\nStudents, ex-alumni, teachers, parents and members of the San Anton community held a peaceful vigil from City Gate to the Great Siege Monument in Valletta, in support of the Caruana Galizia family. The three Caruana Galizia siblings were all students of San Anton School.\n\nWikiLeaks founder Julian Assange announced that he would pay a €20,000 reward \"for information leading to the conviction of Caruana Galizia's killers.\" A crowdfunding campaign was initiated with the aim of raising €1 million to be given as a reward for information that leads \"to the successful prosecution of the assassin and the person or persons who ordered the assassination.\" This was followed by a further state-sanctioned reward of €1 million.\n\nOn 22 October 2017, the Civil Society Network organised a protest demanding justice in Valletta. Thousands of protesters demanded justice in the aftermath of the assassination and called for the immediate resignation of the Police Commissioner and the Attorney General. \n\nA number of protesters who took part in the rally, also went on to the police headquarters in Floriana to call for the police commissioner’s resignation. After staging a sit-in protest in front of the main door, a banner with a photo of police chief Lawrence Cutajar accompanied with the words “No change, no justice – irrizenja (resign)” was placed on the headquarters' gate.\n\nOn 17 April 2018, a consortium of 45 journalists from 18 news organisations, including \"The Guardian\", \"The New York Times\", \"Le Monde\" and the \"Times of Malta\", published \"The Daphne Project\", a collaborative effort to complete Caruana Galizia's investigative work.\n\nThe media room of the European Parliament in Strasbourg was named to the memory of Caruana Galizia in November 2017.\n\nForensic teams and police investigators arrived at the crime scene soon after the explosions. The head of the magisterial inquiry was initially to be Magistrate Consuelo Scerri Herrera, who had previously sued Caruana Galizia for libel in 2010–11. Caruana Galizia's family successfully challenged her role in the investigation citing no confidence in the magistrate. Scerri Herrera abstained from the investigation 17 hours later and was replaced by Magistrate Anthony Vella.\n\nMuscat stated that the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation was asked to help the police in investigating the car bomb attack. A police forensic investigation team from the Netherlands also arrived to assist. The investigators were also joined by three Europol officials. \n\nIn March 2018, a Russian whistleblower and former bank employee, Maria Efimova, who fled Malta for Greece in fear of her life in August 2017, handed herself in to Greek police after the Maltese and Cypriot authorities issued European arrest warrants for her on the basis of complaints by two former employers. Caruana Galizia named Efimova as a source when she alleged that the Maltese Prime Minister's wife, Michelle Muscat, was the beneficial owner of a Panamanian firm used to receive secret payments from Azerbaijan's ruling family. A magisterial inquiry requested by the prime minister himself failed to find evidence to support the allegations.\n\nCaruana Galizia's remains were released for burial on 27 October 2017, and a public funeral was held on 3 November 2017 at the Rotunda of Mosta. Thousands of mourners attended the funeral, applauding and making \"V\" for victory signs as her coffin was carried out of the church by her sons. The day was observed as a national day of mourning in Malta. \n\nThe funeral mass was conducted by Charles Scicluna, Archbishop of Malta, who in his homily told journalists \"never to grow weary in your mission to be the eyes, the ears, and the mouth of the people.\" In a message directed to Caruana Galizia's sons, Matthew, Andrew, and Paul, he said: \"As you know, whenever your mother was abroad, she had a habit of lighting a candle in church for each one of you: the silent prayer of a mother for her children ... Your beloved mother died a cruel death by the hidden hand of someone that valued darkness over the light for his actions are evil. See that you will always be the children of the light.\"\n\nPresident Marie-Louise Coleiro Preca and Prime Minister Joseph Muscat did not attend the funeral, saying Caruana Galizia's family made it clear that they were not welcome. The Leader of the Opposition, Adrian Delia, was \"conspicuous by his absence\". \n\nAmong the people at the funeral were several high officials: Silvio Camilleri, Chief Justice of Malta; Antonio Tajani, President of the European Parliament; Harlem Désir, OSCE Representative on Freedom of the Media; Eddie Fenech Adami, former President of Malta and former leader of the Nationalist Party; Lawrence Gonzi, former Prime Minister of Malta and former leader of the Nationalist Party; and Simon Busuttil, former leader of the Nationalist Party.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10118412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10118412", "title": "Demographics of Asian Americans", "text": "Demographics of Asian Americans\n\nThe demographics of Asian Americans describe a heterogeneous group of people in the United States who trace their ancestry to one or more Asian countries.<ref name=\"C4WDefault-10.1353/dsp.1991.0014\"></ref>\n\nManilamen began to reside in Louisiana as the first Asian Americans to live in the continental in the United States. Yet, most Asian Americans have arrived after 1965; these individuals make up one-quarter of all immigrants who have arrived in the U.S. since 1965, and has resulted in a majority of Asians in the United States being born outside of the country. The 2016 estimate of population of the United States, done by the United States Census Bureau, stated that there were nearly 21 million Asian Americans. During the 2010 United States Census the largest ethnic groups were Chinese American, Filipino Americans, Indian Americans, Vietnamese Americans, Korean Americans, and Japanese Americans.\n\nThe overall population is highly urbanized; they are also largely in the Western United States and California. Generally, Asian Americans are well educated; additionally Asian American households have higher average incomes; however achievement is not uniform among their population. No one religion have the majority of Asian Americans, however Christian Asian Americans make up a plurality of the population. About 4% of Asian Americans identify as LGBT.\n\nThe first recorded Asian Americans in the continental United States were a group of Filipino men who established the small settlement of Saint Malo, Louisiana, after fleeing mistreatment aboard Spanish ships. Since there were no women with them, the Manilamen, as they were known, married Cajun and Native American women. In 1778, Chinese and European explorers first arrived in Hawaii. Numerous Chinese and Japanese began immigrating to the US in the mid-19th century; numerous Chinese immigrants worked as laborers on the First Transcontinental Railroad, many who immigrated due to overpopulation and poverty experienced in Canton Province. In the mid-20th century, refugees from Southeast Asia fled wars in the homelands to come to the United States. Most Asian Americans who immigrated to the United States arrived after 1965, due to immigration reform that ended an earlier era of exclusion of Asian immigrants.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the Asian American population, including those of multiracial and Hispanic and Latino ancestry, had increased to 20,908,701 by 2016.\n\nDuring the 2010 United States Census, there were a total of 17,320,856 Asian Americans, including Multiracial Americans identifying as part Asian. This made Asian Americans 5.6 percent of the total American population. The largest ethnic groups represented in the census were Chinese (3.79 million), Filipino (3.41 million), Indian (3.18 million), Vietnamese (1.73 million), Korean (1.7 million), and Japanese (1.3 million). Other sizable ethnic groups include Pakistani (409,000), Cambodian (276,000), Hmong (260,000), Thai (237,000), Laotian (232,000), Bangladeshi (147,000), and Burmese (100,000). The total population of Asian Americans grew by 46 percent from 2000 to 2010 according to the Census Bureau, which constituted the largest increase of any major racial group during that period. In 2010, there were an estimated 11,284,000 foreign born individuals who were born in Asia, of whom 57.7% had become naturalized citizens. Additionally, 209,128 were Hispanic and Latino, of whom the largest population (101,654) claim Mexico as their nation of origin.\n\nThe 2000 census recorded 11.9 million people (4.2 percent of the total population) who reported themselves as having either full or partial Asian heritage. The largest ethnic subgroups were Chinese (2.7 million), Filipino (2.4 million), Indian (1.9 million), Vietnamese (1.2 million), Korean (1.2 million), and Japanese (1.1 million). Other sizable groups included Cambodians (206,000), Pakistanis (204,000), Lao (198,000), Hmong (186,000), and Thais (150,000). About one-half of the Asian American population lived in the West, with California having the most total Asian Americans of any state, at 4.2 million. As a proportion of the total population, Hawaii is the only state with an Asian American majority population, at 58 percent; Honolulu County had the highest percentage of Asian Americans of any county in the nation, with 62 percent. In 2000, 69 percent of all Asian Americans were foreign born, although Japanese Americans, 60 percent of whom were born in the United States, bucked this trend.\n\nThe Twenty-first United States Census, conducted in 1990, recorded 6.9 million people who were called American Asians. The largest ethnic groups were Chinese (23.8 percent), Filipino (20.4 percent), Japanese (12.3 percent), Indian (11.8 percent), Korean (11.6 percent), Vietnamese (8.9 percent), and Laotian (2.2 percent). Smaller populations, of less than two percent, were documented of the following ethnicities: Cambodian, Thai, Hmong, Pakistani, Indonesian, Malay, Bangladeshi, Sri Lankan, and Burmese. Two thirds of \"American Asians\" lived in the five states of California, New York, Hawaii, Texas, and Illinois; additionally their highest population concentrations were in California, New York, and Hawaii. In 1990, 66 percent of American Asians were foreign born, with Vietnamese, Laotians, and Cambodians having this highest foreign born populations.\n\nThe Asian American population is greatly urbanized, with nearly three-quarters of them living in metropolitan areas with population greater than 2.5 million. The three metropolitan areas with the highest Asian American populations are the Greater Los Angeles Area (1.868 million in 2007), the New York metropolitan area (1.782 million in 2007), and the San Francisco Bay Area (979,000 in 2007). New York City proper, according to the United States 2010 Census, is home to more than one million Asian Americans, greater than the combined totals of San Francisco and Los Angeles. This trend of a largely urban population continues to be observed in 2015, with significant populations in more expensive coastal cities, and less than five percent living in rural areas. Among the ten largest US cities, San Diego has the greatest proportion of Asian Americans. As of 2017, West (45%) and California (31%) had the most significant concentrations of the total Asian American populations; this keeps with historic trends of Asian Americans primarily residing in the Western United States, although there is a shift towards other regions of the United States beginning in the late 20th century.\n\nAccording to the 2010 Census almost three quarters of all Asian Americans live in California, New York, Texas, New Jersey, Hawaii, Illinois, Washington, Florida, Virginia, and Pennsylvania. A large proportion of all Asian Americans live in California (5.6 million in 2010), New York (1.6 million in 2010), and Texas (1.1 million in 2010). Another state with a significant Asian American population is Massachusetts. Hawaii had the largest proportion of Asian Americans, with 57% of the state population identifying as Asian or multiracial with at least one part Asian. In Vermont in 2008, Asian Americans were the largest minority.\n\nAsian American populations have grown significantly since the 1970s. However, they are underrepresented in several large urban areas, such as Chicago, Philadelphia, Dallas and Atlanta, although in some cases, Asian Americans are concentrated in specific urban neighborhoods or suburbs of these cities.\n\nIn regions with large numbers of Asian Americans, communities have developed that are heavily or predominantly Asian. Schools in these areas may offer instruction in languages such as Mandarin. These communities are often given unofficial names to reflect their populations, such as Chinatown, Little Manila, Little India, Little Pakistans, Koreatown, Little Saigons, and Cambodia Town.\n\nAsian Americans, on average, have higher incomes and education levels than White Americans. However, they also have higher poverty rates and lower home ownership rates. In addition, homeownership among Asian Americans has increased by twice as much as white Americans in recent years (see Homeownership in the United States). Since the majority of the Asian American population is urbanized it usually offers more access to an educational environment as well as academic supplies. With that being said, Asian Americans will tend to find better access to higher paying jobs because of their better access to resources. Also, rural settings require farm hands which will prevent children and teenagers from completing highschool and graduating with a diploma.\n\nAsian Americans have the highest educational attainment of any racial group in the country; about 49.8% of them have at least a bachelor's degree. Since the 1990s, Asian American students often have the highest math averages in standardized tests such as the SAT and GRE. Their verbal scores generally lag, but their combined scores are usually higher than those of white Americans. The proportion of Asian Americans at many selective educational institutions far exceeds the national population rate. Asians constitute around 10–20 percent of those attending Ivy League and other elite universities. Asian Americans are the largest racial group on seven of the nine University of California campuses, are the largest racial group of undergraduates in the system, and make up more than a quarter of graduate and professional students. Asian Americans are more likely to attend college, are more likely to apply to competitive colleges, and have significantly higher college completion level than other races. According to a poll targeting Asian Americans in 14 states and the District of Columbia conducted by the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund in 2013, 40 percent of Asian Americans have a college degree, with almost a quarter of them having achieved an education attainment greater than a bachelor's degree. That same year, Asian Americans in their late thirties had the highest percentage (65%) of college graduates for that age group than any other race or ethnicity in the United States. These high education attainment statistics contribute to a stereotype of academic and vocational excellence for Asian Americans.\n\nHowever, there are concerns that the goal of diversity in American higher education has had a negative effect on Asians, with charges of quotas and discrimination starting in the 1980s. Asian American test scores are also bimodal—Asians are over represented both at high scores and low scores. A stereotype has been created that Asian Americans only study STEM and health related fields at their universities. According to a report by the College Board, it has shows Asian Americans have academic interest in fields like social science, humanities, and education. According to an opinion piece written in \"The Harvard Crimson\", it claims that Asian Americans are over represented in higher education in the United States, specifically at elite colleges; this includes Harvard University & Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where over a fifth of undergraduates are Asian American. Similar increases in Asian American enrollment was found in the University of California system, especially in the late 20th century. Only a small number of institutions are presented, usually selective enrollment institutions, thus making it appear that Asian Americans make up a large part of a university's student population. Moreover, this discrimination brought upon Asian Americans in education has encouraged the model minority stereotype in American society. The high expectations placed on Asian American students often cause the problems faced by these students to be overlooked. Issues related to social pressure and mental health are often overlooked due to the idea of the model minority. Education is one of the main aspects that are given a high regard in the social expectations of Asian Americans.\n\nWhile Asian Americans have higher household and personal income levels than any other racial demographic, the Asian poverty rate is higher than that of European Americans. In 2005, the median per capita income for Asian Americans was estimated at $27,331, compared to $26,496 for Whites, $16,874 for African Americans, and $14,483 for those identifying as Hispanic or Latino; the median household income of Asian Americans was estimated at $61,094, compared to $48,554 for European Americans. Additionally 28 percent of Asian American households had incomes exceeding $100,000, compared to 18 percent of the overall population. In 2006, Asian American households were slightly larger than other households, with fewer households with no earners.\n\nIn 2008, Asian American households had the highest median income in the US, at $65,637; however, 11.8 percent of Asians were in poverty in 2004, a higher than the 8.6 percent rate for non-Hispanic whites. This is largely due to the fact that a high percentage of Asian Americans are immigrants, and independently of race, immigrants are more likely than the native-born to be poor. Once country of birth and other demographic factors are taken into account, Asian Americans are no more likely than non-Hispanic whites to live in poverty. Much of this poverty is concentrated in ethnic enclaves, such as Chinatowns. In 2010, the median household income of Asian Americans had increased to $67,022. As with educational achievement, economic prosperity is not uniform among all Asian American groups. 2005 Census figures also show that an average white male with a college diploma earns around $66,000 a year, while similarly educated Asian men earn around $52,000 a year. By 2008, according to authors of a report produced by College Board utilizing date collected by the United States Census Bureau in 2008, Asian American males with similar education achievement as their White American male counterparts earned more than their White American male counter parts. , that trend continued.\n\nAsian American population growth is fueled largely by immigration. Natural population growth accounts for a small proportion of the 43 percent increase in total Asian American population between 2000 and 2010.\n\nIn 2010, there were 2.8 million people (5 and older) who spoke a Chinese language at home; after the English and Spanish languages, it is the third most common language in the United States. Other sizeable Asian languages are Tagalog, Vietnamese, and Korean, with all three having more than 1 million speakers in the United States.\n\nIn 2012, Alaska, California, Hawaii, Illinois, Massachusetts, Michigan, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Texas and Washington were publishing election material in Asian languages in accordance with the Voting Rights Act; these languages include Tagalog, Mandarin Chinese, Vietnamese, Hindi and Bengali. Election materials were also available in Gujarati, Japanese, Khmer, Korean, and Thai. According to a poll conducted by the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund in 2013, it found that 48 percent of Asian Americans considered media in their native language as their primary news source.\n\nAccording to the 2000 Census, the more prominent languages of the Asian American community include the Chinese languages (Mandarin, Cantonese, Taishanese, and Hokkien), Tagalog, Vietnamese, Korean, Japanese, Hindi, Urdu, and Gujarati. In 2008, Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Tagalog, and Vietnamese languages are all used in elections in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Illinois, New York, Texas, and Washington state.\n\nAsian Americans' religious preferences are wide-ranging, and tends to be more diverse than among other races in the United States. The growth of Asian American immigration since 1965 has contributed to this diversity. Until recently, a dearth of scholarship regarding Asian American religious beliefs led to a stereotype that Asian Americans are not religious or spiritual. Although 59 percent of Asian Americans believe strongly in the existence of one or more gods exist, 30 percent identify as \"secular\" or \"somewhat secular.\" Only 39 percent of Asian American households belong to a local church or temple, due to atheism or adherence to Eastern religions without congregational traditions.\n\nAlthough no one religious affiliation claims a majority of Asian Americans, about 45 percent of them adhere to some form of Christianity. A Trinity College survey, conducted in 2008, found that 38 percent of Christian Asian Americans are Catholic; Filipino Americans are majority Catholic, and a significant minority of Vietnamese Americans are as well. The Trinity survey also found that of all demographic populations, Asian Americans had the highest number of respondents who did not claim a religion or refused to divulge their religious affiliation. Various surveys have put this number between 23 and 27 percent of Asian Americans. Additionally, the Trinity College survey found that 8% of Asian Americans are Muslim; many of these Muslim Asian Americans come from, or trace their ancestry to, Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, and Pakistan.\n\nA Gallup poll conducted in 2010 found that Asian Americans were the group least likely to say that religion was important in their daily lives, although a 54 percent majority of respondents still said that religion was important in their daily lives. In 2012, a survey was conducted by the Pew Research Center of the Faiths of Asian Americans, it found that Christianity had the largest plurality (42%) of Asian American respondents, followed by those who were unaffiliated (26%). The three next largest faiths, of those who responded, were Buddhist (14%), Hindu (10%), and Muslim (4%).\n\nAccording to a Gallup survey conducted from June to September 2012, 4.3 percent of Asian Americans self identify as LGBT. This compares with 4.6 percent of African-Americans, 4 percent of Hispanic-Americans, 3.2 percent of Caucasian-Americans, and the overall 3.4 percent of American adults that self identify as LGBT in the total population.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1661551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1661551", "title": "Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures", "text": "Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures\n\nThe Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures is a dictionary style reference for many of the algorithms, algorithmic techniques, archetypal problems, and data structures found in the field of computer science. The dictionary is maintained by Paul E. Black and Vreda Pieterse, and is hosted by the Software and Systems Division, Information Technology Laboratory, a part of the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The new host is the FASTAR research group. It was created in September 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "48402886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48402886", "title": "Digify", "text": "Digify\n\nDigify is a cloud-based document security service and virtual data room that allow companies to track and protect files. Digify can be used on a web browser, and apps are offered for Android and iOS devices. Windows and OS X document viewers are also available for reading highly confidential files.\n\nDigify was founded by Augustine Lim and Loong Chee-Yuh. Lim was concerned about leakage of intellectual property and proprietary information when sharing sensitive content with another company. At the time, he found no digital solution that could protect information from redistribution or set a time limit on access after sending.\n\nDigify provides copy protection, access control and file tracking. Users can decide how their content can be shared with others, invite others to view a shared document or photo, set them to self-destruct and track who has viewed their files.\n\nThree account types are available on Digify: Free, Professional and Business. Depending on the type of account, Digify has features such as DWG file support, adaptive watermarking and screenshot protection. Digify works with cloud storage providers, including Google Drive, Dropbox and Box.\n\nDigify copy protects the owner's information by preventing copying, printing and download. It tracks what happens to the file and who has seen it. It is also possible to revoke access to the file, or have it self-destruct.\n\nFiles sent via Digify can be set to self-destruct. The sender can set how long access is granted before it expires, or revoke access.\n\nDigify features patent-pending adaptive watermarking technology, which creates a movable, fading watermark that uniquely identifies recipients of a file. This enables the whole file to be viewed without disrupting the text or images, while making it possible to identify the originator of a leak. It also increases the difficulty of extracting content even if they take screenshots on the computer or using an external camera.\n\nDigify encrypts files in AES-256, with each object assigned a unique key.Shared content is only readable by the sender and receiver. Data is encrypted while in transit between a device and a recipient, and at rest on a server.\n\nIn 2014, the company was awarded winner of the RSA Innovation Sandbox. Afterwards, Digify won the SVForum startup expo and SITF Awards for best startup. Digify also participated in the SXSW Interactive Innovation Awards, where it was a finalist for Security and Privacy category, and the CTIA MobileCon Cup, where it was the runner-up.\n\n"}
{"id": "354224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=354224", "title": "Discrimination based on skin color", "text": "Discrimination based on skin color\n\nDiscrimination based on skin color, also known as colorism or shadeism, is a form of prejudice or discrimination in which people are treated differently based on the social meanings attached to skin color.\n\nResearch has found extensive evidence of discrimination based on skin color in criminal justice, business, the economy, housing, health care, media, and politics in the United States and Europe. Lighter skin tones are seen as preferable in many countries in Africa, Asia and South America.\nSeveral meta-analyses find extensive evidence of ethnic and racial discrimination in hiring in the North American and European labor markets. A 2016 meta-analysis of 738 correspondence tests in 43 separate studies conducted in OECD countries between 1990 and 2015 finds that there is extensive racial discrimination used within both the European and North American hiring process. Equivalent minority candidates need to send around 50% more applications than majority candidates to be invited for an interview. Recent research in the U.S. shows that socioeconomic and health inequality among African Americans along the color continuum is often similar or even larger in magnitude than what obtains betweens whites and African Americans as a whole.\n\nIn East, South and Southeast Asia, a preference for lighter skin is prevalent, especially in countries such as China, Korea, India and Japan.\n\nThe history of skin whitening in East Asia dates far back to ancient times. In the ancient dynastic eras, to be light in an environment in which the sun was harsh implied wealth and nobility because those individuals were able to remain indoors while servants had to labor outside. Ancient Asian cultures also associated light skin with feminine beauty. \"Jade\" white skin in Korea is known to have been the ideal as far back as the Gojoseon era. Japan's Edo period saw the start of a trend of women whitening their faces with rice powder as a \"moral duty\". Chinese women valued a \"milk white\" complexion and swallowed powdered pearls towards that end. Four out of ten women surveyed in Hong Kong, Malaysia, the Philippines, and South Korea use a skin whitening cream. In many Asian cultures, colorism is taught to children in the form of fairy tales, just as the Grimms' fairy tales featured light-skinned princesses or maidens; Asian mythological protagonists are typically fair and depict virtue, purity, and goodness. A light complexion is equated with feminine beauty, racial superiority, and power, and continues to have strong influences on marital prospects, employment, status, and income.\n\nGlobalized East Asia still retains these biases, but they are compounded by the influence of Westernized beauty ideals and media that equate whiteness with modern and urban wealth and success. The legacies of European colonialism in India and Pakistan also influence the modern relations between light skin and power.\n\nIt was mistakenly thought by Western scholars that the Hindu goddess Kali represents demonic powers and ugliness and, as a dark-skinned goddess (whose name translates to \"she who is black\"), is therefore a demonstration of Indian colorism. This, however, was later understood to not be true, as Kali is actually traditionally viewed positively and seen as a symbol of sexuality, motherly love, violence, and power. There also remain plenty of examples of black being exemplified as holy as with Shiva and the most well known and popular avatars of the god Vishnu, Krishna and Rama. More recently, this was understood to have been a strategy by British colonial powers to subjugate Indian civilization.\n\nColorism in India has also been fueled due to the events under British colonial rule, where British officials consistently demeaned dark-skinned Indians and favored light-skinned Indians for jobs over dark-skinned Indians. As a result of hundreds of years of British colonial influence, remnants of the British tactics that exacerbated colorism still remain in Indian society. Other forms of colorism in India can be seen in the cosmetic industry, where \"fairness\" creams meant to lighten skin are popular, and in the Bollywood industry, where the majority of actors and actresses hired are light-skinned, and actresses are often photoshopped to look lighter.\n\nFor example, in the state of Maharashtra, a group of young tribal girls trained to be flight crew through a government scholarship program that aimed to empower women. The majority of girls were denied employment due to their darker skin tone. A few of those women obtained jobs, but only as out-of-sight ground crew.\n\nSkin-lightening creams are popular in Pakistan, especially among women. Many ads feature light-skin models in good light while portraying dark-skinned models poorly. Bollywood, which largely features light skinned Indian actors, is also influential among Pakistanis.\n\nFair skin is a beauty ideal in contemporary Sri Lankan society but has its roots in ancient Sri Lankan beauty ideals. Fairness products and other products that include whitening agents are commonly sold in Sri Lanka and are popular among females. Fair skinned actors and actresses feature prominently in Bollywood films and Korean dramas both of which are widely popular and influential in Sri Lanka.\n\nHiroshi Wagatsuma writes in \"Daedalus\" that Japanese culture has long associated skin color with other physical characteristics that signify degrees of spiritual refinement or of primitiveness.\nThe scholar repeats an old Japanese proverb: \"white skin makes up for seven defects.\" More specifically for a woman, very light skin allows people to overlook her lack of other desired physical characteristics. Skin color has and continues to influence attractiveness and socioeconomic status and capability.\n\nPeople in the western hemisphere have long characterised east Asians, specifically Chinese and Japanese people, as \"yellow\", but the Chinese and Japanese seldom describe their skin color in that way. The Japanese traditionally used the word \"shiroi\" – meaning \"white\" – to describe the lighter shades of skin in their society.\n\nThe court ladies of Japan during the Nara period from 710 to 793 AD applied a large amount of white powder to the face and added red rosy cheeks. Many references to plump women with white skin appear in both drawings and writings from 794–1186 AD. In literature, note for example \"The Tale of Genji\" (written 1000–1012) by Lady Murasaki.\n\nA survey concluded that three quarters of Malaysian men thought their partners would be more attractive if they had lighter skin complexions.\n\nIn certain Southeast Asian countries such as Malaysia, a common beauty ideal is the \"Eurasian look\" known locally in Malaysia as the \"pan-Asian look\" is an ideal that stems from the beauty ideal of fair skin, which Eurasians tend to naturally possess. The overuse of pan-Asian faces on billboards and on television screens has been a controversial issue in the country. The issue was highlighted in 2009 when Zainuddin Maidin, a Malaysian politician, called for the reduction of pan-Asian faces which he claimed dominate TV and billboards and instead increase the number of Malay, Chinese and Indian faces on local television. Despite the controversy surrounding the preference for Malaysians who are of mixed Asian (Malay, Chinese or Indian) and European descent who possess features such as fair skin, some experts in the industry have said the use of pan-Asian faces can be used to promote the racial diversity of Malaysians. They can also be used to promote a product towards a diverse racial demographic because of their mixed appearance, which the Minister of Information had suggested in 1993.\n\nIn many parts of Africa, women with lighter skin are thought to be more beautiful and likely to find more success than women of darker skin tones. Often times this barrier leads to women turning to skin lightening treatments, many of which are harmful to the body.\n\nHistorically, the cause of skin lightening goes back to colonialism, where individuals with lighter skin received greater privilege than those of darker tones. This built a racial hierarchy and color ranking within colonized African nations, leaving psychological effects on many of the darker skinned individuals.\n\nColorism affects both women and men in African countries, but it has taken hold of the beauty standards associated with a woman’s ability to find success and marriage. The number of women across African countries using bleaching products have gone up with 77% of Nigerian women, 52% of Senegalese women, and 25% of Mali women using lightening products.\nResearch suggests that police practices, such as racial profiling, over-policing in areas populated by minorities and in-group bias may result in disproportionately high numbers of racial minorities among crime suspects in Sweden, Italy, and England and Wales. Research also suggests that there may be possible discrimination by the judicial system, which contributes to a higher number of convictions for racial minorities in Sweden, the Netherlands, Italy, Germany, Denmark and France.\n\nSeveral meta-analyses find extensive evidence of ethnic and racial discrimination in hiring in the North American and European labor markets. A 2016 meta-analysis of 738 correspondence tests in 43 separate studies conducted in OECD countries between 1990 and 2015 finds that there is extensive racial discrimination in hiring decisions in Europe and North America. Equivalent minority candidates need to send around 50% more applications to be invited for an interview than majority candidates.\n\nA 2014 meta-analysis found extensive evidence of racial and ethnic discrimination in the housing market of several European countries. There is extensive discrimination against immigrant groups in the French housing and labor markets, against Turkish immigrants in the German labor market, and against immigrants with non-Spanish names in the Spanish housing market.\n\nA 2017 experimental study found that the Dutch discriminate against non-Western immigrants in trust games.\n\nClare Anyiam-Osigwe's romantic drama \"No Shade\" (2018) confronts the issue of colorism in the UK dating scene.\n\nBrazil has the world's largest population of African descendants living outside Africa. Racially mixed individuals with lighter skin generally have higher rates of social mobility. There are a disproportionate number of mostly European descent elites than those of visible African descent. There are large health, education and income disparities between the races in Brazil. A recent study even finds that skin color is a stronger predictor of social inequality in Brazil than 'race' (i.e. 'race-color' categories used on the Brazilian census); and highlights that socially perceived skin color and 'race' are not the same thing. Even though browns and blacks comprise more than 50 percent of the population, they comprise less than 25 percent of elected politicians.\n\nA 2016 study, using twins as a control for neighborhood and family characteristics, found that the nonwhite twin is disadvantaged in the educational system. A 2015 study on racial bias in teacher evaluations in Brazil found that Brazilian math teachers gave better grading assessments of white students than equally proficient and equivalently well-behaved black students.\n\nA 2018 paper found that discriminatory hiring and retention policies accounted for 6-8% of the overall racial wage gap.\n\nA 2016 study found that Chilean schoolteachers had lower expectations of their dark-skinned students (\"morenos\") than their light-skinned students (\"blancos\").\n\nA 2017 study revealed a 45% gap in educational achievement between the darkest- and lightest-skinned Mexicans and that wealth in the country similarly correlated to skin color.\n\nEuropean colonialism created a system of racial hierarchy and race-based ideology, which had led to a structure of domination that privileged whites over blacks. Biological differences in skin color were used as a justification for the enslavement and oppression of Africans and Native Americans; developing a social hierarchy that placed whites at the top and blacks at the bottom, with the exception of \"white trash\", who were considered lower than blacks. Slaves with lighter complexion were allowed to engage in less strenuous tasks, like domestic duties, while the darker slaves participated in hard labor, which was more than likely outdoors. African American with a partial white heritage were seen to be smarter and superior to dark-skinned blacks, giving them broader opportunities for education and the acquisition of land and property. Colorism was a device used by the white colonist in order to create a division between the Africans and further the idea that being as close to white as possible was the ideal image. One of the first forms of colorism was the white slave owners deciding that only the light skinned slaves would work in the house while the darker ones were subjected to the harsh conditions of the fields. This led to a clear division between the slaves There were tests to determine who was light enough to work in the house and sometimes get special privileges. One of these tests was the brown paper bag test. If a person's skin was darker than a brown paper bag, they were deemed too dark to work in the house. The skin tests were not just used by white people trying to differentiate between black people, but also by the black people themselves. In addition to the bag test, the comb test and the door test were also used. The comb test was used to measure the kinkiness of the persons hair. The objective was for the comb to be able to pass through the hair without stopping. The door test was very popular at some African American clubs and churches. The people in charge would paint the door a certain shade of brown, similar to the bag test, and if you were darker than the door, you were not allowed admittance into the establishment. These tests were used to measure what level of \"blackness\" was and was not acceptable for the world. Because the lighter slaves were allowed to work in the house, they were more likely to be educated than the darker slaves. This birthed the stereotype that dark people were stupid and ignorant. Scholars predict that the preferred color of beauty will not be black or white, but mixed in the future. Scholars also predict the United States will adopt a \"multicultural matrix\" which will help bridge the racial gap in efforts of achieving racial harmony. The matrix has four components, the mixed race will help fix racial issues, it serves as a sign of racial progress, it suggest racism as a phenomenon and also suggest that focus on race is racist due to the lack of racial neutrality.\n\nA 2014 meta-analysis of racial discrimination in product markets found extensive evidence of minority applicants being quoted higher prices for products. A 1995 study found that car dealers \"quoted significantly lower prices to white males than to black or female test buyers using identical, scripted bargaining strategies.\" A 2013 study found that eBay sellers of iPods received 21 percent more offers if a white hand held the iPod in the photo than a black hand. A 2017 study found that minorities receive a lower boost to earnings from legal education than whites and were less likely to practice law. However, it is difficult to determine the extent to which this is the result of racial discrimination.\n\nAfrican-Americans have historically faced discrimination in terms of getting access to credit.\n\nResearch suggests that police practices, such as racial profiling, over-policing in areas populated by minorities and in-group bias may result in disproportionately high numbers of racial minorities among crime suspects. Research also suggests that there may be possible discrimination by the judicial system, which contributes to a higher number of convictions for racial minorities. A 2012 study found that \"(i) juries formed from all-white jury pools convict black defendants significantly (16 percentage points) more often than white defendants, and (ii) this gap in conviction rates is entirely eliminated when the jury pool includes at least one black member.\" Research has found evidence of in-group bias, where \"black (white) juveniles who are randomly assigned to black (white) judges are more likely to get incarcerated (as opposed to being placed on probation), and they receive longer sentences.\" In-group bias has also been observed when it comes to traffic citations, as black and white cops are more likely to cite out-groups.\n\nA 2014 study in the \"Journal of Political Economy\" found that 9% of the black-white gap in sentencing could not be accounted for. The elimination of unexplained sentencing disparities would reduce \"the level of black men in federal prison by 8,000–11,000 men [out of black male prison population of 95,000] and save $230–$320 million per year in direct costs.\" The majority of the unexplained sentencing disparity appears to occur at the point when prosecutors decide to bring charges carrying “mandatory minimum” sentences. A 2018 paper by Alma Cohen and Crystal Yang of Harvard Law School found that \"that Republican-appointed judges give substantially longer prison sentences to black offenders versus observably similar non-black offenders compared to Democratic-appointed judges within the same district court.\" A 2018 study in the \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" found that bail judges in Miami and Philadelphia were racially biased against black defendants, as white defendants had higher rates of pretrial misconduct than black defendants.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Journal of Public Health\" found that black and Hispanic men were far more likely to be killed by police than white men. A 2016 paper by Roland G. Fryer, Jr., found that while there are no racial differences in lethal use of police force, blacks and Hispanics are significantly more likely to experience non-lethal use of force. Reports by the Department of Justice have also found that police officers in Baltimore, Maryland, and Ferguson, Missouri, systemically stop, search (in some cases strip-searching) and harass black residents. A January 2017 report by the DOJ also found that the Chicago Police Department had \"unconstitutionally engaged in a pattern of excessive and deadly force\" and that police \"have no regard for the sanctity of life when it comes to people of color.\" A 2018 study found that police officers more likely to use lethal force on blacks.\n\nIn criminal sentencing, medium to dark-skinned African Americans are likely to receive sentences 2.6 years longer than those of whites or light-skinned African Americans. When a white victim is involved, those with more \"black\" features are likely to receive a much more severe punishment.\n\nAccording to a 2011 \"ProPublica\" analysis, \"whites are nearly four times as likely as minorities to win a pardon, even when the type of crime and severity of sentence are taken into account.\"\n\nA 2013 report by the American Civil Liberties Union found that blacks were \"3.73 times more likely than whites to be arrested for marijuana possession,\" even though \"blacks and whites use drugs, including marijuana, at similar rates.\"\n\nA 2014 study on the application of the death penalty in Connecticut over the period 1973–2007 found \"that minority defendants who kill white victims are capitally charged at substantially higher rates than minority defendants who kill minorities... There is also strong and statistically significant evidence that minority defendants who kill whites are more likely to end up with capital sentences than comparable cases with white defendants.\"\n\nA 2016 analysis by the \"New York Times\" \"of tens of thousands of disciplinary cases against inmates in 2015, hundreds of pages of internal reports and three years of parole decisions found that racial disparities were embedded in the prison experience in New York.\" Blacks and Latinos were sent more frequently to solitary and held there for longer durations than whites. The New York Times analysis found that the disparities were the greatest for violations where the prison guards had lots of discretion, such as disobeying orders, but smaller for violations that required physical evidence, such as possessing contraband.\n\nA 2016 report by the \"Sarasota Herald-Tribune\" found that Florida judges sentence black defendants to far longer prison sentences than whites with the same background. For the same drug possession crimes, blacks were sentenced to double the time of whites. Blacks were given longer sentences in 60 percent of felony cases, 68 percent of the most serious first-degree crimes, 45 percent of burglary cases and 30 percent of battery cases. For third-degree felonies (the least serious types of felonies in Florida), white judges sentenced blacks to twenty percent more time than whites, whereas black judges gave more balanced sentences.\n\nA 2017 report by the Marshall Project found that killings of black men by whites were far more likely to be deemed \"justifiable\" than killings by any other combination of races.\n\nA 2017 report by the United States Sentencing Commission (USSC) found, \"after controlling for a wide variety of sentencing factors\" (such as age, education, citizenship, weapon possession and prior criminal history), that \"black male offenders received sentences on average 19.1 percent longer than similarly situated White male offenders.\"\n\nA 2018 study in the journal \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" found that tall young black men are especially likely to receive unjustified attention by law enforcement. The authors furthermore found a \"causal link between perceptions of height and perceptions of threat for Black men, particularly for perceivers who endorse stereotypes that Black people are more threatening than White people.\"\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Economic Journal: Applied Economics\" found that judges gave longer sentences, in particular to black defendants, after their favorite team lost a home game.\n\nAnalysis of more than 20 million traffic stops in North Carolina showed that blacks were more than twice as likely as whites to be pulled over by police for traffic stops, and that blacks were more likely to be searched following the stop. There were no significant difference in the likelihood that Hispanics would be pulled over, but Hispanics were much more likely to be searched following a traffic stop than whites. When the study controlled for searches in high-crime areas, it still found that police disproportionately targeted black individuals. These racial disparities were particularly pronounced for young men. The study found that whites who were searched were more likely to carry contraband than blacks and Hispanics.\n\nIn 1954, \"Brown vs. the Board of Education\" ruled that integrated, equal schools be accessible to all children unbiased to skin color. Currently in the United States, not all state funded schools are equally funded.  Schools are funded by the \"federal, state, and local governments\" while \"states play a large and increasing role in education funding.\" \"Property taxes support most of the funding that local government provides for education.\" Schools located in lower income areas receive a lower level of funding and schools located in higher income areas receiving greater funding for education all based on property taxes.  The U.S. Department of Education reports that \"many high-poverty schools receive less than their fair share of state and local funding, leaving students in high-poverty schools with fewer resources than schools attended by their wealthier peers.\" The U.S. Department of Education also reports this fact affects \"more than 40% of low-income schools.\" Children of color are much more likely to suffer from poverty than white children.\n\nA 2015 study using correspondence tests \"found that when considering requests from prospective students seeking mentoring in the future, faculty were significantly more responsive to White males than to all other categories of students, collectively, particularly in higher-paying disciplines and private institutions.\" Through affirmative action, elite colleges consider a broader range of experiences for minority applicants.\n\nThe phrase \"brown paper bag test,\" also known as a paper bag party, along with the \"ruler test\" refers to a ritual once practiced by certain African-American sororities and fraternities who would not let anyone into the group whose skin tone was darker than a paper bag. Spike Lee's film \"School Daze\" satirized this practice at historically black colleges and universities. Along with the \"paper bag test,\" guidelines for acceptance among the lighter ranks included the \"comb test\" and \"pencil test,\" which tested the coarseness of one's hair, and the \"flashlight test,\" which tested a person's profile to make sure their features measured up or were close enough to those of the Caucasian race.\n\nA 2016 study in the journal \"PNAS\" found that blacks and Hispanics were systemically underrepresented in education-programs for gifted children where teachers and parents referred students to those programs; when a universal screening program based on IQ was used to refer students, the disparity was reduced significantly.\n\nSkin color discrimination in education affects individuals in different ways depending on gender. This may be due to the disparity in standards of attractiveness, to which women are held much more closely than men. White women, previously thought to be in a group that did not experience discrimination based on skin color, have been shown to be affected by this inequality. A 2013 study used spectrophotometer readings to quantify skin color of respondents. White women experience discrimination in education, with those having darker skin graduating from college at lower rates than those with lighter skin. This precise and repeatable test of skin color revealed that white women experience skin color discrimination in education at levels consistent with African-Americans. White men are not affected in this way.\n\nA 1999 study found that doctors treat black and white patients differently, even when their medical files were statistically identical. When shown patient histories and asked to make judgments about heart disease, the doctors were much less likely to recommend cardiac catheterization (a helpful procedure) to black patients. A 2015 study found that pediatricians were more likely to undertreat appendicitis pain in black children than white children. A 2017 study found that medical staff treating anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries perceived black collegiate athletes as having higher pain tolerance than white athletes.\n\nA 2018 ProPublica analysis found that African Americans and Native Americans were underrepresented in clinical trials for new drugs. Fewer than 5% of patients were African-American, even though they make up 13.4% of the total US population. African-Americans were even underrepresented in trials involving drugs intended for diseases that disproportionately affect African-Americans. As a result, African-Americans who had exhausted all other treatments have weaker access to experimental treatments.\n\nA 2014 meta-analysis found extensive evidence of racial discrimination in the American housing market. Minority applicants for housing needed to make many more enquiries to view properties. Geographical steering of African-Americans in US housing remained significant. A 2003 study finds \"evidence that agents interpret an initial housing request as an indication of a customer's preferences, but also are more likely to withhold a house from all customers when it is in an integrated suburban neighborhood (redlining). Moreover, agents' marketing efforts increase with asking price for white, but not for black, customers; blacks are more likely than whites to see houses in suburban, integrated areas (steering); and the houses agents show are more likely to deviate from the initial request when the customer is black than when the customer is white. These three findings are consistent with the possibility that agents act upon the belief that some types of transactions are relatively unlikely for black customers (statistical discrimination).\"\n\nA report by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development where the department sent African-Americans and whites to look at apartments found that African-Americans were shown fewer apartments to rent and houses for sale. A 2017 study found that \"that applications [for Airbnb housing] from guests with distinctively African American names are 16 percent less likely to be accepted relative to identical guests with distinctively white names.\"\n\nA 2017 paper by Troesken and Walsh found that pre-20th century cities \"created and sustained residential segregation through private norms and vigilante activity.\" However, \"when these private arrangements began to break down during the early 1900s\" whites started \"lobbying municipal governments for segregation ordinances.\" As a result, cities passed ordinances which \"prohibited members of the majority racial group on a given city block from selling or renting property to members of another racial group\" between 1909 and 1917.\n\nA 2017 study by Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago economists found that the practice of redlining—the practice whereby banks discriminated against the inhabitants of certain neighborhoods—had a persistent adverse impact on the neighborhoods, with redlining affecting homeownership rates, home values and credit scores in 2010. Since many African-Americans could not access conventional home loans, they had to turn to predatory lenders (who charged high interest rates). Due to lower home ownership rates, slumlords were able to rent out apartments that would otherwise be owned.\n\nA 2017 study in \"Research & Politics\" found that white supporters of Donald Trump became less likely to approve of federal housing assistance when they were shown an image of a black man.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Sociological Review\" found that housing market professionals (real estate agents, housing developers, mortgage appraisers and home value appraisers) held derogatory racial views about black and Latino individuals and neighborhoods whereas white individuals and neighborhoods were beneficiaries of widely shared, positive racial beliefs.\n\nA 2018 experimental study by University of Illinois and Duke University economists found that real estate agents and housing providers systematically recommended homes in neighborhoods with higher poverty rates, greater pollution, higher crime rates, fewer college educated families, and fewer skilled workers to minority individuals who had all the same characteristics as white individuals except ethnic differences.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"American Political Science Review\" found that white voters in areas which experienced massive African-American population growth between 1940 and 1960 were more likely to vote for California Proposition 14 (1964) which sought to enshrine legal protections for landlords and property owners who discriminated against \"colored\" buyers and renters.\n\nA 2018 study in the \"Journal of Politics\" found extensive evidence of discrimination against blacks and Hispanics in the New York City rental market. A 2018 study in the journal \"Regional Science and Urban Economics\" found that there was discrimination against blacks and Arab males in the U.S. rental market.\n\nSeveral meta-analyses find extensive evidence of ethnic and racial discrimination in hiring in the American labor market. A 2017 meta-analysis found \"no change in the levels of discrimination against African Americans since 1989, although we do find some indication of declining discrimination against Latinos.\" A 2016 meta-analysis of 738 correspondence tests – tests where identical CVs for stereotypically black and white names were sent to employers – in 43 separate studies conducted in OECD countries between 1990 and 2015 finds that there is extensive racial discrimination in hiring decisions in Europe and North America. These correspondence tests showed that equivalent minority candidates need to send around 50% more applications to be invited for an interview than majority candidates. A study that examine the job applications of actual people provided with identical résumés and similar interview training showed that African-American applicants with no criminal record were offered jobs at a rate as low as white applicants who had criminal records.\n\nA 2017 study found that minorities receive a lower boost to earnings from legal education than whites and were less likely to practice law. However, it is difficult to determine the extent to which this is the result of racial discrimination. The differences in earnings premiums appears to have diminished in recent years.\n\nResearch suggests that light-skinned African American women have higher salaries and greater job satisfaction than dark-skinned women. Being \"too black\" has recently been acknowledged by the U.S. Federal courts in an employment discrimination case under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. In \"Etienne v. Spanish Lake Truck & Casino Plaza, LLC\" the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, determined that an employee who was told on several occasions that her manager thought she was \"too black\" to do various tasks, found that the issue of the employee's skin color rather than race itself, played a key role in an employer's decision to keep the employee from advancing.\n\nA 2008 study found that black service providers receive lower tips than white service providers.\n\nA 2017 report by Travis L. Dixon (of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign) found that major media outlets tended to portray black families as dysfunctional and dependent while white families were portrayed as stable. These portrayals may give the impression that poverty and welfare are primarily black issues. According to Dixon, this can reduce public support for social safety programs and lead to stricter welfare requirements.\n\nAfrican Americans possessing lighter skin complexion and \"European features,\" such as lighter eyes, and smaller noses and lips have more opportunities in the media industry. For example, film producers hire lighter-skinned African Americans more often, television producers choose lighter skinned cast members, and magazine editors choose African American models that resemble European features. In regards to the magazine industry, African American women are rarely showcased in the most popular magazines. Therefore, African American girls have difficultly identifying with the models showcased in these magazines, because they do not represent the type of women that they come into contact with in their own communities. Recent studies have indicated that the number of racially biased advertisements in magazines have increased over the years. A content analysis conducted by Scott and Neptune (1997) shows that less than one percent of advertisements in major magazines featured African American models. When African Americans did appear in advertisements they were mainly portrayed as athletes, entertainers or unskilled laborers. In addition, seventy percent of the advertisements that features animal print included African American women. Animal print reinforces the stereotypes that African Americans are animalistic in nature, sexually active, less educated, have lower income, and extremely concerned with personal appearances. Concerning African American males in the media, darker skinned men are more likely to be portrayed as violent or more threatening, influencing the public perception of African American men. Since dark-skinned males are more likely to be linked to crime and misconduct, many people develop preconceived notions about the characteristics of black men.\n\nColorism was and still is very much evident in the media. An example of this is shown in the minstrel shows that were popular during and after slavery. Minstrel shows were a very popular form of theater that involved white and black people in black face portraying black people while doing demeaning things. The actors painted their faces with black paint to and over lined their lips with bright red lipstick to exaggerate and make fun of black people. When minstrel shows died out and television became popular, black actors were rarely hired and when they were, they had very specific roles. These roles included being servants, slaves, idiots, and criminals. White people wanted to keep this narrative going that black people were forever in debt to them because they essentially rescued blacks from themselves and made them humans instead of savages. This is seen in the \"mammy\" role that black women often played. The highlights of this role included black women being the loyal servant to the master and taking care of and loving his kids more than her own. Even though black people were allowed to be on TV, they still couldn't be too black. They had to pass the color tests and if they were dark, they were usually playing a humiliating role. That trend is something that follows into present day especially for women. There is a huge absence of dark black women in the media and when they are shown, they are typically portraying the angry black woman stereotype but have a light skinned character to balance them out. Darker women are rarely the protagonist that isn't troubled by drugs, or caught up in the legal system. There is also a large absence of representation of dark women in the music industry. The object of affection in music videos are women who could have easily passed the paper bag test and many entertainers have gone on record saying that they don't girls who are too dark and that they only prefer light or white women.\n\nA 2011 study found that white state legislators of both political parties were less likely to respond to constituents with African-American names. A 2013 study found that in response to e-mail correspondence from a putatively black alias, \"nonblack legislators were markedly less likely to respond when their political incentives to do so were diminished, black legislators typically continued to respond even when doing so promised little political reward. Black legislators thus appear substantially more intrinsically motivated to advance blacks' interests.\"\n\nSome research suggests that white voters' voting behavior is motivated by racial threat. A 2016 study, for instance, found that white Chicago voters' turnout decreased when public housing was reconstructed and 25,000 African Americans displaced. This suggest that white voters' turnout decreased due to not living in proximity to African-Americans.\n\nVoter ID laws have brought on accusations of racial discrimination. In a 2014 review by the Government Accountability Office of the academic literature, three studies out of five found that voter ID laws reduced minority turnout whereas two studies found no significant impact. Disparate impact may also be reflected in access to information about voter ID laws. A 2015 experimental study found that election officials queried about voter ID laws are more likely to respond to emails from a non-Latino white name (70.5% response rate) than a Latino name (64.8% response rate), though response accuracy was similar across groups. Studies have also analyzed racial differences in ID requests rates. A 2012 study in the city of Boston found that black and Hispanic voters were more likely to be asked for ID during the 2008 election. According to exit polls, 23% of whites, 33% of blacks, and 38% of Hispanics were asked for ID, though this effect is partially attributed to black and Hispanics preferring non-peak voting hours when election officials inspected a greater portion of IDs. Precinct differences also confound the data as black and Hispanic voters tended to vote at black and Hispanic-majority precincts. A 2010 study of the 2006 midterm election in New Mexico found that Hispanics were more likely to incur ID requests while early voters, women, and non-Hispanics were less likely to incur requests. A 2009 study of the 2006 midterm election nationwide found that 47% of white voters reported being asked to show photo identification at the polls, compared with 54% of Hispanics and 55% of African Americans.\" Very few were however denied the vote as a result of voter identification requests. A 2015 study found that turnout among blacks in Georgia was generally higher since the state began enforcing its strict voter ID law. A 2016 study by University of California, San Diego researchers found that voter ID laws \"have a differentially negative impact on the turnout of Hispanics, Blacks, and mixed-race Americans in primaries and general elections.\"\n\nResearch by University of Oxford economist Evan Soltas and Stanford political scientist David Broockman suggests that voters act upon racially discriminatory tastes. A 2018 study in \"Public Opinion Quarterly\" found that whites, in particular those who had racial resentment, largely attributed Obama's success among African-Americans to his race, and not his characteristics as a candidate and the political preferences of African-Americans. A 2018 study in the journal \"American Politics Research\" found that white voters tended to misperceive political candidates from racial minorities as being more ideologically extreme than objective indicators would suggest; this adversely affected the electoral chances for those candidates. A 2018 study in the \"Journal of Politics\" found that \"when a white candidate makes vague statements, many [nonblack] voters project their own policy positions onto the candidate, increasing support for the candidate. But they are less likely to extend black candidates the same courtesy... In fact, black male candidates who make ambiguous statements are actually punished for doing so by racially prejudiced voters.\"\n\nA 2018 study found evidence of racial-motivated reasoning as voters assessed President Barack Obama's economic performance. The study found that \"Whites attributed more responsibility to Obama under negative economic conditions (i.e., blame) than positive economic conditions (i.e., credit)... Whites attributed equal responsibility to the President and governors for negative economic conditions, but gave more responsibility to governors than Obama for positive conditions. Whites also gave governors more responsibility for state improvements than they gave Obama for national ones.\"\n\nA 2018 study examining \"all 24 African American challengers (non-incumbents) from 2000 to 2014 to white challengers from the same party running in the same state for the same office around the same time\" found \"that white challengers are about three times more likely to win and receive about 13 percentage points more support among white voters. These estimates hold when controlling for a number of potential confounding factors and when employing several statistical matching estimators.\"\n\nStudies have shown that due to societal influences, people associate beauty with lighter skin. This is especially evident in children. This belief has led dark-skinned children to feel inadequate in who they are and inferior when compared to people with lighter skin. African American women believe they would haven better luck dating if they were of lighter skin especially when dating African American men.\n\nA 2018 study found evidence that nonblack voters in Heisman Trophy voting were biased against nonblack players.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46845030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46845030", "title": "Ebb Cade", "text": "Ebb Cade\n\nEbb Cade (17 March 1890 – 13 April 1953) was a construction worker at Clinton Engineer Works at Oak Ridge, and an unwilling participant in the first human injection experiments with plutonium.\n\nEbb Cade was born on 17 March 1890 in Macon County, Georgia, the son of Evens and Carrie Cade. Ebb Cade was married to Ida Cade. At the age of 63, Cade died as a result of ventricular fibrillation followed by heart failure on 13 April 1953 in Greensboro, Guilford County, North Carolina.\n\nOn 23 March 1945 Cade was on his way to work at a construction site for the Manhattan Project when he was involved in a traffic accident at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. He was an African American cement worker for the J.A. Jones Construction Company. Cade presented at the Oak Ridge Hospital with fractures of right patella, right radius and ulna and left femur. A Dr.Friedell determined that as Mr. Cade was as he characterized, a \"well developed..well nourished\" \"colored male\", he was suitable for experimentation with plutonium injection. Doctors left his fractures untreated for 20 days until after plutonium injections began on April 10 1945. Mr. Cade received the injections at the Oak Ridge Hospital on the Clinton Engineer Works reservation at Oak Ridge, Tennessee without his assent or knowledge. He became known as HP-12 (Human Product-12), and was the first person to be injected with Pu-239. In order to test the migration of plutonium through his body, subsequently fifteen of Cade's teeth were extracted, and bone samples taken. \n\nBeginning in 1945 and until 1947 a total of 18 people were part of a series of studies that involved the injection of Plutonium. In Rochester, New York at Strong Memorial Hospital 11 people were injected. In Chicago, Illinois 3 individuals received injections at Billings Hospital of the University of Chicago. In San Francisco, California 3 people were injected at the University Hospital of the University of California, San Francisco. The first person injected in California was Albert Stevens. Urine and feces samples were collected from the test subjects and forwarded to Los Alamos (also known as Project Y) for plutonium analysis. The studies were utilized to formulate mathematical equations necessary to establish plutonium excretion rates.\n\nRecord Group 326 (Box descriptions). This is the box cited by Denise Kiernan as containing relevant correspondence \n"}
{"id": "9457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9457", "title": "Election", "text": "Election\n\nAn election is a formal group decision-making process by which a population chooses an individual to hold public office. Elections have been the usual mechanism by which modern representative democracy has operated since the 17th century. Elections may fill offices in the legislature, sometimes in the executive and judiciary, and for regional and local government. This process is also used in many other private and business organizations, from clubs to voluntary associations and corporations.\n\nThe universal use of elections as a tool for selecting representatives in modern representative democracies is in contrast with the practice in the democratic archetype, ancient Athens, where the Elections were considered an oligarchic institution and most political offices were filled using sortition, also known as allotment, by which officeholders were chosen by lot.\n\nElectoral reform describes the process of introducing fair electoral systems where they are not in place, or improving the fairness or effectiveness of existing systems. Psephology is the study of results and other statistics relating to elections (especially with a view to predicting future results).\n\nTo \"elect\" means \"to choose or make a decision\", and so sometimes other forms of ballot such as referendums are referred to as elections, especially in the United States.\n\nElections were used as early in history as ancient Greece and ancient Rome, and throughout the Medieval period to select rulers such as the Holy Roman Emperor (see imperial election) and the pope (see papal election).\n\nIn Vedic period of India, the \"Raja\" (chiefs) of a \"gana\" (a tribal organization) was apparently elected by the \"gana\". The R\"aja\" belonged to the noble Kshatriya varna (warrior class), and was typically a son of the previous R\"aja\". However, the \"gana\" members had the final say in his elections. Even during the Sangam Period people elected their representatives by casting their votes and the ballot boxes (Usually a pot) were tied by rope and sealed. After the election the votes were taken out and counted. The Pala King Gopala (ruled c. 750s–770s CE) in early medieval Bengal was elected by a group of feudal chieftains. Such elections were quite common in contemporary societies of the region. In the Chola Empire, around 920 CE, in Uthiramerur (in present-day Tamil Nadu), palm leaves were used for selecting the village committee members. The leaves, with candidate names written on them, were put inside a mud pot. To select the committee members, a young boy was asked to take out as many leaves as the number of positions available. This was known as the \"Kudavolai\" system.\n\nThe modern \"election\", which consists of public elections of government officials, didn't emerge until the beginning of the 17th century when the idea of representative government took hold in North America and Europe.\n\nQuestions of suffrage, especially suffrage for minority groups, have dominated the history of elections. Males, the dominant cultural group in North America and Europe, often dominated the electorate and continue to do so in many countries. Early elections in countries such as the United Kingdom and the United States were dominated by landed or ruling class males. However, by 1920 all Western European and North American democracies had universal adult male suffrage (except Switzerland) and many countries began to consider women's suffrage. Despite legally mandated universal suffrage for adult males, political barriers were sometimes erected to prevent fair access to elections (see civil rights movement).\n\nThe question of who may vote is a central issue in elections. The electorate does not generally include the entire population; for example, many countries prohibit those who are under the age of majority from voting, all jurisdictions require a minimum age for voting. \n\nIn Australia Aboriginal people were not given the right to vote until 1962 (see 1967 referendum entry) and in 2010 the federal government removed the rights of prisoners to vote (a large proportion of which are Aboriginal Australians).\n\nSuffrage is typically only for citizens of the country, though further limits may be imposed.\n\nHowever, in the European Union, one can vote in municipal elections if one lives in the municipality and is an EU citizen; the nationality of the country of residence is not required. \n\nIn some countries, voting is required by law; if an eligible voter does not cast a vote, he or she may be subject to punitive measures such as a fine. In Western Australia, the penalty for a first time offender failing to vote is a $20.00 fine, which increases to $50.00 if the offender refused to vote prior.\n\nA representative democracy requires a procedure to govern nomination for political office. In many cases, nomination for office is mediated through preselection processes in organized political parties.\n\nNon-partisan systems tend to differ from partisan systems as concerns nominations. In a direct democracy, one type of non-partisan democracy, any eligible person can be nominated. Although elections were used in ancient Athens, in Rome, and in the selection of popes and Holy Roman emperors, the origins of elections in the contemporary world lie in the gradual emergence of representative government in Europe and North America beginning in the 17th century. In some systems no nominations take place at all, with voters free to choose any person at the time of voting—with some possible exceptions such as through a minimum age requirement—in the jurisdiction. In such cases, it is not required (or even possible) that the members of the electorate be familiar with all of the eligible persons, though such systems may involve indirect elections at larger geographic levels to ensure that some first-hand familiarity among potential electees can exist at these levels (i.e., among the elected delegates).\n\nAs far as partisan systems, in some countries, only members of a particular party can be nominated (see one-party state). Or, any eligible person can be nominated through a process; thus allowing him or her to be listed.\n\nElectoral systems are the detailed constitutional arrangements and voting systems that convert the vote into a political decision. The first step is to tally the votes, for which various vote counting systems and ballot types are used. Voting systems then determine the result on the basis of the tally. Most systems can be categorized as either proportional or majoritarian. Among the former are party-list proportional representation and additional member system. Among the latter are First Past the Post electoral system (relative majority) and absolute majority. Many countries have growing electoral reform movements, which advocate systems such as approval voting, single transferable vote, instant runoff voting or a Condorcet method; these methods are also gaining popularity for lesser elections in some countries where more important elections still use more traditional counting methods.\n\nWhile openness and accountability are usually considered cornerstones of a democratic system, the act of casting a vote and the content of a voter's ballot are usually an important exception. The secret ballot is a relatively modern development, but it is now considered crucial in most free and fair elections, as it limits the effectiveness of intimidation.\n\nThe nature of democracy is that elected officials are accountable to the people, and they must return to the voters at prescribed intervals to seek their mandate to continue in office. For that reason most democratic constitutions provide that elections are held at fixed regular intervals. In the United States, elections for public offices are typically held between every two and six years in most states and at the federal level, with exceptions for elected judicial positions that may have longer terms of office. There is a variety of schedules, for example presidents: the President of Ireland is elected every seven years, the President of Russia and the President of Finland every six years, the President of France every five years, President of the United States every four years.\n\nPre-determined or fixed election dates have the advantage of fairness and predictability. However, they tend to greatly lengthen campaigns, and make dissolving the legislature (parliamentary system) more problematic if the date should happen to fall at time when dissolution is inconvenient (e.g. when war breaks out). Other states (e.g., the United Kingdom) only set maximum time in office, and the executive decides exactly when within that limit it will actually go to the polls. In practice, this means the government remains in power for close to its full term, and choose an election date it calculates to be in its best interests (unless something special happens, such as a motion of no-confidence). This calculation depends on a number of variables, such as its performance in opinion polls and the size of its majority.\n\nWhen elections are called, politicians and their supporters attempt to influence policy by competing directly for the votes of constituents in what are called campaigns. Supporters for a campaign can be either formally organized or loosely affiliated, and frequently utilize campaign advertising. It is common for political scientists to attempt to predict elections via Political Forecasting methods.\n\nThe most expensive election campaign included US$7 billion spent on the United States presidential election, 2012 and is followed by the US$5 billion spent on the Indian general election, 2014.\n\nIn many countries with weak rule of law, the most common reason why elections do not meet international standards of being \"free and fair\" is interference from the incumbent government. Dictators may use the powers of the executive (police, martial law, censorship, physical implementation of the election mechanism, etc.) to remain in power despite popular opinion in favor of removal. Members of a particular faction in a legislature may use the power of the majority or supermajority (passing criminal laws, defining the electoral mechanisms including eligibility and district boundaries) to prevent the balance of power in the body from shifting to a rival faction due to an election.\n\nNon-governmental entities can also interfere with elections, through physical force, verbal intimidation, or fraud, which can result in improper casting or counting of votes. Monitoring for and minimizing electoral fraud is also an ongoing task in countries with strong traditions of free and fair elections. Problems that prevent an election from being \"free and fair\" take various forms.\n\nEarly voting has been criticized as harmful to democracy.\n\nThe electorate may be poorly informed about issues or candidates due to lack of freedom of the press, lack of objectivity in the press due to state or corporate control, and/or lack of access to news and political media. Freedom of speech may be curtailed by the state, favoring certain viewpoints or state propaganda.\n\nGerrymandering, exclusion of opposition candidates from eligibility for office, needlessly high restrictions on who may be a candidate, like ballot access rules, and manipulating thresholds for electoral success are some of the ways the structure of an election can be changed to favor a specific faction or candidate.\n\nThose in power may arrest or assassinate candidates, suppress or even criminalize campaigning, close campaign headquarters, harass or beat campaign workers, or intimidate voters with violence. Foreign electoral intervention can also occur.\n\nThis can include confusing or misleading voters about how to vote, violation of the secret ballot, ballot stuffing, tampering with voting machines, destruction of legitimately cast ballots, voter suppression, voter registration fraud, failure to validate voter residency, fraudulent tabulation of results, and use of physical force or verbal intimation at polling places. Other examples include persuading candidates into not standing against them, such as through blackmailing, bribery, intimidation or physical violence.\n\nA sham election is an election that is held purely for show; that is, without any significant political choice or real impact on results of election.\n\nShow elections are a common event in dictatorial regimes that feel the need to feign the appearance of public legitimacy. Published results usually show nearly 100% voter turnout and high support (close to 100% in many cases) for the prescribed candidate(s) or for the referendum choice that favors the political party in power. Dictatorial regimes can also organize show elections with results simulating those that might be achieved in democratic countries.\n\nSometimes only one government approved candidate is allowed to run in sham elections with no opposition candidates allowed or opposition candidates are arrested on false charges or even without any charges before the election to prevent them from running.\n\nExamples of such elections are elections in Fascist Italy in 1929 and 1934, elections in Nazi Germany, Portuguese presidential election, 1958, most communist and socialist states (East Germany, the Soviet Union, China, North Korea, etc.), and Baathist Iraq. A predetermined conclusion is always established by the regime, either through suppression of the opposition, coercion of voters, vote rigging, a forged number of \"votes received\" (e.g. the State of Vietnam referendum, 1955), outright lying, or some combination. In an extreme example, Charles D. B. King of Liberia claimed he received 243,000 votes in the 1927 general election, which exceeded the number of eligible voters over 15 times.\n\nBallots in a show election may contain only one \"yes\" option. In the case of a simple \"yes or no\" question, people who pick \"no\" are often persecuted, thus making the \"yes\" choice the only option (false dilemma). An example of this is the elections of the People's Parliaments in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania in 1940 shortly after the Soviet occupation of the Baltic states; where those who voted received stamps in their passport for voting and those who did not vote did not receive stamps and were persecuted as enemies of the people. Another example is in contemporary North Korea.\n\nIn some cases, show elections can backfire against the party in power, especially if the regime believes they are popular enough to win without coercion or fraud. The most famous example of this was the 1990 Myanmar general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "4887755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4887755", "title": "European Liberation Front", "text": "European Liberation Front\n\nThe European Liberation Front (ELF) was a small neo-fascist group that split from Oswald Mosley's British Union Movement in 1948. Its founder and ideological inspiration was Francis Parker Yockey. In 1949 they issued a manifesto titled \"The Proclamation of London\", written by Yockey. The pan-nationalist (Pan-Europeanist) and anti-American movement had little impact, and lasted until 1954.\n\nIn the 1990s, the ELF, Yockey, and his ideology, were rediscovered by the Nouvelle Résistance, Alternativa Europea, National-Bolshevik Party, National Revolutionary Faction, and others. In 1999, a manifesto of a second 'European Liberation Front' was published in Paris, but there is apparently no more active organisation of that name now. The manifesto takes its ideological inspiration from Yockey, and from Otto Strasser, who was expelled from the Nazi party by Adolf Hitler in 1930. \n\nDespite the pan-European style of its title, the ideology of the manifesto is ethnic and racial nationalism: the manifesto speaks of the \"historical and cultural ties which exist between our respective nations\" and calls for \"mono-ethnic racial homelands\" to preserve the \"race, culture and traditions of all European peoples\". European liberation, according to the manifesto, consists of \"National Revolution\".\n\nContinental Europeans, like Jean-François Thiriart and Alain de Benoist were already influenced by the work of Yockey in the 1960s.\n\n"}
{"id": "7776356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7776356", "title": "Findhorn Ecovillage", "text": "Findhorn Ecovillage\n\nFindhorn Ecovillage is an experimental architectural community project based at The Park, in Moray, Scotland, near the village of Findhorn. The project's main aim is to demonstrate a sustainable development in environmental, social, and economic terms. Work began in the early 1980s under the auspices of the Findhorn Foundation but now includes a wide diversity of organisations and activities. Numerous different ecological techniques are in use, and the project has won a variety of awards, including the UN-Habitat Best Practice Designation in 1998.\n\nA recent independent study concludes that the residents have the lowest ecological footprint of any community measured so far in the industrialised world and is also half of the UK average. Although the project has attracted some controversy, the growing profile of environmental issues such as climate change has led to a degree of mainstream acceptance of its ecological ethos.\n\nThe October 1982 Conference ‘Building a Planetary Village’ hosted by the Findhorn Foundation marked the beginning of serious attempts by the intentional community, which had existed at Findhorn since 1962 to demonstrate a human settlement that could be considered sustainable in environmental, social, and economic terms.\n\nThe term ‘ecovillage’ later came to be used to describe such experiments and in 1995 the first international conference of ecovillages, \"Ecovillages and Sustainable Communities for the 21st Century\", was held in Findhorn.\n\nAt first almost all of the activities this involved, such as eco-house construction, a 75 kW Vestas wind turbine and an ecological waste water treatment system were undertaken by the Findhorn Foundation itself, or its trading company New Findhorn Directions Ltd. However, from 1990 onwards a growing number of independent charities, businesses, small sister communities, independent practitioners and community bodies have grown up and significantly extended the size and diversity of ecological projects, some of which are listed below. As of 2005 the Ecovillage has around 450 members centred around The Park (the main campus on the southern edge of Findhorn), but also based at numerous locations in the nearby town of Forres and elsewhere in Moray. The project supports approximately 300 jobs in the Findhorn/Forres area and provides a total aggregate economic impact in excess of £5 million per annum in the Highlands of Scotland as a whole.\n\nEcovillages usually rely on a wide variety of approaches to minimise their ecological footprint. Some of the most important used at Findhorn are listed here although it is important to bear in mind that in any given situation the single largest factor is likely to be the attitudes of the residents rather than the technologies themselves. The national scale is far better researched than the micro scale, and at this level it is easy to observe that countries with similar levels of wealth may have quite different footprints — see for example Chambers (2004).\n\nThe site has a comprehensive building code that all new buildings are required to meet. It goes far beyond current UK building standards and includes features such as very efficient insulation (typically using products made from recycled paper), non-toxic organic paints, wood preservatives and boarding manufactured without the use of toxic glues or resins and roofing with natural clay tiles.\n\nThere are a wide variety of other options used including low-energy light bulbs, 'breathing wall' construction allowing a controlled exchange of air & vapour water conservation features and locally sourced materials. Shared facilities such as laundry, kitchens, lounges etc. are encouraged, thus avoiding unnecessary duplication.\n\nMost new buildings incorporate design features that invite passive solar radiation to reduce building heating needs, such as south-facing windows, conservatories and minimal wall openings on north walls. Sustainably harvested wood provides space heating for many homes both old and new, and an Ecovillage company supplies solar panels for domestic hot water heating to residential and commercial customers throughout the UK. The Highlands and Islands Community Energy Company recently awarded a grant for the installation of ground \nsource heating for the proposed new Moray Arts Centre based at Findhorn.\n\n\"Simply Build Green\" — Talbott (1993) — is based on research undertaken at Findhorn Ecovillage and was the UK’s first technical guide to ecological housing.\n\nThe first new dwelling to be constructed at the Ecovillage was a small house in the round made from a recycled whisky barrel. The idea was later developed and several buildings on this theme were constructed. Other innovative styles include a strawbale house, and an earthship electricity sub-station. Over fifty new houses have now been constructed, some in exotic styles, others more prosaic in appearance. The rigorous building codes contrast with an apparent absence of visual guidelines and the result is a diversity of design rather than a consistent approach to aesthetics.\n\nIn 1995 Jonathon Porritt opened Europe's first Living Machine (also known as Eco-Restorers in The UK) at The Park campus. This is an ecologically engineered waste water treatment system which is designed to treat sewage from a population of up to 350 people and in common with a number of other such systems also provides a research and educational facility to promote the technology. It was constructed with assistance from the European Union. The invention of Canadian scientist John Todd, they use tanks containing diverse communities of bacteria, algae, micro-organisms, numerous species of plants and trees, snails, fish and other living creatures to treat the water. At the end of the series of tanks, the resulting water is pure enough to be returned to the local water table. Plans to use the water for irrigation have been considered but not implemented to date.\n\nOne of the most significant factors in the Ecovillage's low eco-footprint (see below) is its attitude to food production and consumption. Various smallholdings associated with the Ecovillage contribute to a community supported agriculture or 'box' scheme which provides organic produce for the local area, some of it grown using permaculture techniques. This horticulture '\"provides more than 70% of the community's fresh food requirements\" and Phoenix Community Stores, based at the Park, is one of the largest retailers of organic produce in northern Scotland.\n\nAnother reason for the low ecological impact of the settlement is the presence of four Vestas wind turbines which can generate up to 750 kW. These make the Park settlement net exporters of electricity produced from renewable resources. The first V17 generator was installed in 1989 and three additional V29s were installed in March 2006. The original site was a caravan park and as a result the Ecovillage has its own private electricity grid. Most of the generation is used on-site with any surplus exported to the National Grid.\n\nSince 2002 a local currency has been in operation. Launched by Ekopia, the community’s development trust, it is accepted by almost all Ecovillage organizations. There are roughly £20,000 of notes in circulation and issuing them has enabled Ekopia to make low interest loans and donations to support various initiatives including an ecological guest facility, the wind park (above) and the local Youth Project. The current issue, which is due to expire in 2011, is at par with sterling i.e. 1 Eko = £1, and notes are in one, five, ten and twenty denominations.\n\nAn ecological footprint is an attempt to measure the total environmental impact of human activities in a given area. The results measure the amount of land and water that the population requires to provide the resources they utilise and to absorb their wastes. The calculations used converts this into a measure of land area, global hectares (gha). It is widely accepted that the human impact on planet Earth now exceeds the available capacity of natural systems to sustain it, and that western countries typically have a resource usage that ‘would require three planets’ to maintain if every citizen on Earth had a similar impact. In October 2006 preliminary results of the ecological footprint study for the Findhorn Ecovillage undertaken by The Sustainable Development Research Centre of the UHI Millennium Institute in collaboration with the Stockholm Environment Institute confirmed that ecovillages can tread significantly more lightly on the Earth than more conventional communities.\n\nThe study found that residents of The Park and the nearby campus of Cluny Hill College have, on average, a footprint of 2.71 hectares per capita, a little over half the UK national average of 5.4 hectares. (By comparison the comparable figure for the United States is 9.5gha, whilst Uzbekistan is rated at the average 'global earthshare' of 1.9gha). Of particular significance are the results relating to food, ‘home and energy' use, and 'consumables and personal possessions' which have 35%, 27% and 44% of the national average respectively. Findhorn residents have an eco-footprint some 13% lower than those at the London eco-housing development, BedZED. The study is also intending to measure the additional impact caused by visitors to the Ecovillage but results are not yet available.\n\nAt a time when resource depletion and global warming are international concerns it is not perhaps surprising that these activities should receive various accolades.\n\n\n\nVarious critiques exist in print, although these tend to concentrate on the eclectic spirituality of the Findhorn Foundation rather than the environmental aspects of the Ecovillage. There is a statement of core values for the Ecovillage and its associated community called ‘Common Ground’ but other than affirming a commitment to \"active spiritual practice\" (which is diversely understood and interpreted) it concentrates largely on preferred interpersonal behaviours rather than prescribing a spiritual philosophy. Objections were raised by a local pressure group against the expansion of the wind park but the concerns of local people about the Ecovillage appear to have reduced, partly due to the proactive stance of the ecovillagers themselves, especially perhaps as a result of the gift of some amenity land to a local land trust by Duneland Ltd., an Ecovillage company.\n\nWhile many houses are modest in size some are large, exceeding 200 m² in built area for a single household. Diversity of lifestyle may well be part of any human settlement but the magnitude of such structures hints that the commitment to ‘living lightly on the Earth’ is not as whole-hearted as first appearances may suggest. Nonetheless, working examples of how a western lifestyle might be possible whilst living within the means of the Earth's renewable resources to support it are likely to be of interest at a time when the consensus of mainstream opinion is moving towards the view that ‘business as usual’ may no longer be an option.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34488928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34488928", "title": "Human services", "text": "Human services\n\nHuman services is an interdisciplinary field with the objective of meeting human needs through an applied knowledge base, focusing on prevention as well as remediation of problems, and maintaining a commitment to improving the overall quality of life of service populations. The process involves the study of social technologies (practice methods, models, and theories), service technologies (programs, organizations, and systems), and scientific innovations that are designed to ameliorate problems and enhance the quality of life of individuals, families and communities to improve the delivery of service with better coordination, accessibility and accountability. The mission of human services is to promote a practice that involves simultaneously working at all levels of society (whole-person approach) in the process of promoting the autonomy of individuals or groups, making informal or formal human services systems more efficient and effective, and advocating for positive social change within society.\n\nHuman services practitioners strive to advance the autonomy of service users through civic engagement, education, health promotion and social change at all levels of society. Practitioners also engage in advocating so human systems remain accessible, integrated, efficient and effective.\n\nHuman services academic programs can be readily found in colleges and universities, which award degrees at the associate, baccalaureate, and graduate levels. Human services programs exist in countries all around the world.\n\nHuman services has its roots in charitable activities of religious and civic organizations that date back to the Colonial period. However, the academic discipline of human services did not start until the 1960s. At that time, a group of college academics started the new human services movement and began to promote the adoption of a new ideology about human service delivery and professionalism among traditional helping disciplines. The movement's major goal was to make service delivery more efficient, effective, and humane. The other goals dealt with the reeducation of traditional helping professionals (interprofessional education), to have a greater appreciation of the individual as a whole person (humanistic psychology) and to be accountable to the communities they serve (postmodernism). Furthermore, professionals would learn to take responsibility at all levels of government, use systems approaches to consider human problems, and be involved in progressive social change.\n\nTraditional academic programs such as education, nursing, social work, law and medicine were resistant to the new human services movement's ideology because it appeared to challenge their professional status. Changing the traditional concept of professionalism involved rethinking consumer control and the distribution of power. The new movement also called on human service professionals to work for social change. It was proposed that the reduction of the monopolistic control of professionals could result in democratization of knowledge and would lead to professionals advocating on behalf of clients and communities against professional establishments. The movement also hoped that human service delivery systems would become integrated, comprehensive, and more accessible, which would make them more humane for service users. Ultimately, the resistance from traditional helping professions served as the impetus for a group of educators in higher education to start the new academic discipline of human services.\n\nSome maintain that the human services discipline has a concrete identity as a profession that supplements and complements other traditional professions. Yet other professionals and scholars have not agreed upon an authoritative definition for human services.\n\nChenault and Burnford argued that human services programs must educate and train students at the graduate or postgraduate level if human services hoped to be considered a professional discipline. A progressive graduate human services program was established by Audrey Cohen (1932–1996), who was considered an innovative educator for her time. The Audrey Cohen College of Human Services, now called the Metropolitan College of New York, offered one of the first graduate programs in 1974. In the same time period, Springfield College in Massachusetts became a major force in preserving human services as an academic discipline. Currently, Springfield College is one of the oldest and largest human services program in the United States.\n\nManpower studies in the 1960s and 70s had shown that there would be a shortage of helping professionals in an array of service delivery areas. In turn, some educators proposed that the training of nonprofessionals (e.g., mental health technicians)could bridge this looming personnel shortage. One of the earliest educational initiatives to develop undergraduate curricula was undertaken by the Southern Regional Education Board (SREB), which was funded by the National Institute on Health. Professionals of the SREB Undergraduate Social Welfare Manpower Project helped colleges develop new social welfare programs, which later became known as human services. Some believed that community college human services programs were the most expedient way to train paraprofessionals for direct service jobs in areas such as mental health. Currently, a large percentage of human services programs are run at the community college level.\n\nThe development of community college human services programs was supported with government funding that was earmarked for the federal new careers initiatives. In turn, the federally funded New Careers Program was created to produce a nonprofessional career track for economically disadvantaged, underemployed, and unemployed adults as a strategy to eradicate poverty within society and to end a critical shortage of health-care personnel. Graduates from these programs successfully acquired employment as paraprofessionals, but there were limitations to their upward mobility within social service agencies because they lacked a graduate or professional degree.\n\nCurrently, there are academic programs in human services at the associate, baccalaureate, and graduate levels. There are approximately 600 human services programs throughout the United States. An online directory of human services programs lists many (but not all) of the programs state by state in conjunction with their accreditation status from the Council of Standards for Human Services Education (CSHSE).\n\nThe CSHSE offers accreditation for human services programs in higher education. The accreditation process is voluntary and labor-intensive; it is designed to assure the quality, consistency, and relevance of human service education through research-based standards and a peer-review process. According to the CSHSE's webpage there are only 43 accredited human services programs in the United States. The Standards for each level of degree accredited by CSHSE can be obtained by clicking on the following links:\n\n\nHuman services curricula are based on an interdisciplinary knowledge foundation that allows students to consider practical solutions from multiple disciplinary perspectives. Across the curriculum human services students are often taught to view human problems from a socioecological perspective (developed by Urie Bronfenbrenner) that involves viewing human strengths and problems as interconnected to a family unit, community, and society. This perspective is considered a “whole-person perspective”. Overall, undergraduate programs prepare students to be human services generalists while master’s programs prepare students to be human services administrators, and doctoral programs prepare students to be researcher-analysts and college-level educators. Research in this field focuses on an array of topics that deal with direct service issues, case management, organizational change, management of human service organizations, advocacy, community organizing, community development, social welfare policy, service integration, multiculturalism, integration of technology, poverty issues, social justice, development, and social change strategies.\n\nThe Center for Credentialing & Education (CCE) conceptualized the Human Services-Board Certified Practitioner (HS-BCP) credential with the assistance of the National Organization for Human Services (NOHS) and the Council for Standards in Human Service Education (CSHSE). The credential was created for human services practitioners seeking to advance their careers by acquiring independent verification of their practical knowledge and educational background.\n\nGraduates from human services programs can obtain a Human Services Board Certified Practitioner (HS-BCP) credential offered by the Center for Credentialing & Education (CCE). The HS-BCP certification ensures that human services practitioners offer quality services, are competent service providers, are committed to high standards, and adhere to the NOHS \"Ethical Standards of Human Service Professionals,\" as well as to help solidify the professional identity of human services practitioners. HS-BCPE Experience Requirements for the certification: HS-BCP applicants must meet post-graduation experience requirements to be eligible to take the examination. However, graduates of a CSHSE accredited degree program may sit for the HS-BCP exam without verifying their human services work experience. Otherwise experience requirements for candidates not from a CSHSE accredited program are as follows: Associate degree with post degree experience requires three years, including a minimum of 4,500 hours; Bachelor’s Degree with post degree experience requires two years, including a minimum of 3,000 hours; Master’s or Doctorate with post degree experience requires one year, including a minimum of 1,500 hours.\n\nThe HS-BCP exam is designed to verify a candidate’s human services knowledge. The exam was created as a collaborative effort of human services subject-matter experts and normed on a population of professionals in the field. The HS-BCP exam covers the following areas:\n\n\nCurrently, the three major employment roles played by human services graduates include providing direct service, performing administrative work, and working in the community. According to the Occupational Outlook Handbook, published by the US Department of Labor, the employment of human service assistants is anticipated to grow by 34% through 2016, which is faster than average for all occupations. There will also be excellent job opportunities for individuals with post-secondary degrees. But salaries remain low, which might reflect employers’ lack of understanding of the human services profession.\n\nThere are several different professional human services organizations for professionals, educators, and students to join across North America.\n\nThe National Organization for Human Services (NOHS) is a professional organization open to educators, professionals, and students interested in current issues in the field of human services. NOHS sponsors an annual conference in different parts of the United States. In addition, there are four independent human services regional organizations: (a) Mid-Atlantic Consortium for Human Services, (b) Midwest Organization for Human Services, (c) New England Organization for Human Service, and the (d) Northwest Human Services Association. All of the regional organizations are also open to educators, professionals, students and each regional organization has an annual conference in different locations throughout their region such as universities or institutions. \n\nHuman services special interest groups also exist within the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) and the American Educational Research Association (AERA). The ASPA subsection is named the Section on Health and Human Services Administration and its purpose is to foster the development of knowledge, understanding and practice in the fields of health and human services administration and to foster professional growth and communication among academics and practitioners in these fields. Fields of health and human services administration share a common and unique focus on improving the quality of life through client-centered policies and service transactions.\n\nThe AERA special interest group is named the Education, Health and Human Service Linkages. Its purpose is to create a community of researchers and practitioners interested in developing knowledge about comprehensive school health, school linked services, and initiatives that support children and their families. This subgroup also focuses on interpersonal collaboration, integration of services, and interdisciplinary approaches. The group’s interests encompass interrelated policy, practice, and research that challenge efforts to create viable linkages among these three distinct areas.\n\nThe American Public Human Services Association (APHSA) is a nonprofit organization that pursues distinction in health and human services by working with policymakers, supporting state and local agencies, and working with partners to promote innovative, integrative and efficient solutions in health and human services policy and practice. APHSA has individual and student memberships.\n\nThe Canadian Institute for Human Services is an advocacy, education and action-research organization for the advancement of health equity, progressive education and social innovation. The institute collaborates with researchers, field practitioners, community organizations, socially conscious companies—along with various levels of government and educational institutions—to ensure that the Canadian health and human services sector remains accountable to the greater good of Canadian civil society rather than short-term professional, business or economic gains \n\n"}
{"id": "1251234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251234", "title": "International Arbitration and Peace Association", "text": "International Arbitration and Peace Association\n\nThe International Arbitration and Peace Association (IAPA) was an organisation founded in London in 1880 with the stated objective of promoting arbitration and peace in place of armed conflicts and force. It published a journal, \"Concord\".\n\nLewis Appleton organised the International Arbitration and Peace Association (IAPA) in 1880.\nThe meetings to organise the society, which began on 16 August 1880, were hosted by the municipal reformer William Phillips. Hodgson Pratt (1824–1907) was made chairman. Vice presidents included the newspaper editor John Passmore Edwards, the Duke of Westminster, the Earl of Derby and the Earl of Shaftesbury.\nUnlike the Peace Society the IAPA accepted defensive war, was not restricted to Christians and claimed to be international.\nIt also allowed women on the executive committee, and aimed to become a tribunal that would publish findings on disputes between two countries.\nIn the spring of 1882 E.M. Southey, the main founder of the Ladies Peace Association persuaded her group to disaffiliate from the Peace Society and join the IAPA.\nThe Quaker Priscilla Hannah Peckover played a central role in organising a new ladies auxiliary of the Peace Society that was launched on 12 July 1882.\n"}
{"id": "19134437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19134437", "title": "Investiture of the Prince of Wales", "text": "Investiture of the Prince of Wales\n\nThe Investiture of the Prince of Wales is the ceremony marking formal acknowledgement of a newly-created Prince of Wales. During the investiture ceremony, the prince is presented and invested with the ensigns of his rank and dignity, similar to a coronation. An investiture is purely ceremonial, as the title is created via letters patent.\n\nInvestitures fell into abeyance and the revival of investing the Prince of Wales in 1911 was largely due to David Lloyd George's instigation. A similar ceremony was also held in 1969 for Queen Elizabeth II's son and heir, Prince Charles.\n\nThe tradition of investing the heir apparent of the English, and subsequently the British, monarch with the title of \"Prince of Wales\" began in 1301, when King Edward I of England, having completed the conquest of Wales, gave the title to his heir apparent, Prince Edward (later King Edward II of England).\n\nInvestiture is not necessary to be created Prince of Wales. Peers were also invested, but investitures for peers ceased in 1621, at a time when peerages were being created so frequently that the investiture ceremonies became cumbersome. Most investitures for Princes of Wales were held in front of Parliament.\n\nIn 1911 the future King Edward VIII was invested in Caernarfon Castle in Wales. The present Prince of Wales, Charles, was also invested there in 1969.\n\nThe ceremony in 1969 began with Prince Charles, led by the regalia bearers, entering the Chamberlain Tower, to await the arrival of Her Majesty. Once the royal family had arrived, the lesser members took their seat in the gallery, but the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh, led by the Earl of Snowdon, the Lord Great Chamberlain, the Earl Marshal and the Gentleman Usher carrying the Great Sword of State, made their way to the stage where the investiture was to be conducted. After reaching the podium where the Secretary of State for Wales, carrying the Letters Patent was already standing, the Earl Marshal instructed Garter to conduct the Prince and his cortège from the tower. As they came to the stage Prince Charles knelt before the three thrones on the stage. During the reading of the Letters Patent in Welsh, the Queen invested Charles with the girdle, sword, coronet, ring, rod and kingly mantle, in that order. Prince Charles then declared, \"I, Charles, Prince of Wales, do become your liege man of life and limb and of earthly worship, and faith and truth I bear unto you, to live and die against all manner of folks.\" Charles then customarily kissed the Queen's cheek and they embraced. Charles then took his place in the throne at his mother's right, before standing to give two speeches, one in Welsh and one in English. A brief religious service was then conducted and the Queen led the Prince of Wales to Queen Eleanor's Gate, to receive the homage of his adopted nation. The numerous banners and standards of the Prince of Wales were hung from the balcony.\n\nThe Letters Patent stated that Charles Philip Arthur George would receive the title, style, honour and privilege of the Principality of Wales and Earldom of Chester.\n\nDuring the reading of the letters patent creating the Prince, the Honours of the Principality of Wales are delivered to the Prince. The coronet of the heir apparent bears four crosses pattées alternating with four fleurs-de-lis, surmounted by a single arch (the Sovereign's crowns are of the same design, but use two arches). A gold rod is also used in the insignia; gold rods were formerly used in the investitures of dukes, but survive now in the investitures of Princes of Wales only. Also part of the insignia are a ring, a girdle, a sword and a robe.\n\nIt is recorded that Llywelyn ap Gruffudd had deposited his coronet along with his other regalia with the monks at Cymer Abbey for safekeeping at the start of his final campaign in 1282. He was killed later that year. It was seized and presented to King Edward I of England as a token of the complete annihilation of the independent Welsh state.\n\nFrederick, Prince of Wales, later had the Coronet of Frederick, Prince of Wales, made at a cost of £140 5s. in 1728. It is unknown whether Frederick ever wore the coronet himself, but it was used by both his son, George III, and his grandson, George IV, when each was Prince of Wales.\n\nDue to age Frederick's coronet was replaced by the Coronet of George, Prince of Wales, made for the future King George V. At George's own coronation in 1911, the coronet was worn by his son, Edward, the next Prince of Wales.\n\nWhen the former King Edward VIII went into exile as the Duke of Windsor in 1936 (following his abdication), he took with him the Coronet of George, Prince of Wales, a highly controversial—and illegal—act. This coronet had been specially created for King George V, then Prince of Wales, and he wore it at his father's coronation in 1902. The traditional coronet being unavailable, and with the older Coronet of Frederick, Prince of Wales being viewed unusable due to age, a new Prince of Wales coronet was made to be used for the investiture of Prince Charles as Prince of Wales. The Coronet of Charles, Prince of Wales, was produced by a committee under Antony Armstrong-Jones, 1st Earl of Snowdon, then husband of Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon.\n\nPrince Charles was created Prince of Wales and Earl of Chester by Letters Patent on 26 July 1958, but the investiture was not until 1 July 1969. The ceremony at Caernarfon was well received by some Welsh people, but some nationalists view it as being associated with the subjugation of Welsh people since the 13th century, when Edward I deposed the last native Prince of Wales, Llywelyn ap Gruffudd. Previous investitures had taken place at various locations, including the Palace of Westminster, the seat of Parliament. The Welsh borough of Swansea was granted city status to mark the occasion. Taught by Edward Millward, Prince Charles spent ten weeks leading up to his investiture learning about Welsh culture and language, and during the ceremony he gave his replies in both English and Welsh.\n\nThe investiture was watched by millions on television, and attracted large and excited crowds in Caernarfon, but it also aroused considerable hostility among a minority of nationalist and republican Welsh people. The nationalist campaign against the investiture culminated with an attempted bombing by two members of the Mudiad Amddiffyn Cymru (Movement for the Defence of Wales). On the eve of the investiture two bombers were killed whilst placing a bomb outside government offices in Abergele. In recent years, it has been claimed that the KGB plotted to disrupt the proceedings by bombing a bridge in Porthmadog.\n\nIn recent opinion polls the majority of Welsh people (usually cited as over 60%) have remained in favour of the monarchy, with a BBC Wales poll in 1999 finding that 73% of Welsh speakers want the position of Prince of Wales to continue. A BBC poll to mark the 40th anniversary of the investiture showed that 58% of the Welsh population were in favour of a similar public ceremony for Prince William when Charles becomes king. A poll in July 2018 again found the majority of Welsh people support the title passing on when the current Prince becomes King, and, only 27% objected to another investiture.\n\nOn the evening of 28 June 2009—to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the investiture—BBC Parliament broadcast a repeat of the original BBC TV colour outside broadcast from 1 July 1969, fronted by Cliff Michelmore and Richard Baker. This was preceded by an interview with Prince Charles recorded a few days before his investiture.\n"}
{"id": "2366882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2366882", "title": "Kyoto Museum for World Peace", "text": "Kyoto Museum for World Peace\n\nThe is part of Ritsumeikan University in Kita-ku, Kyoto, Japan. The Museum is accessible to the public for a 400-600 Yen fee. The displays and materials are mostly in Japanese but there is a 25-page English booklet describing the exhibits. The museum is near Kinkaku-ji and just east of the main Ritsumeikan University campus.\nIn 2004 the museum took over the exhibits of the museum that was part of the Young People's Plaza, designed by famous architect Kenzo Tange.\n\nThe standing exhibits of Ritsumeikan University's Kyoto Museum for World Peace are currently designed to emphasize the importance of peace primarily by covering the problems of war and the arms race and accurately portraying the suffering they bring about. However, through its special exhibits, the Museum is also striving to extend its view to the problem of structural violence in an effort to contribute to the development of true peace.\n\nThe Museum for Peace also contributes to peace (Mission).\n\nThe Gallery for Peace exhibits living artists. It exhibits in the community. Since May 2000, it exhibited in two cafes, Duke and North Carolina State University, Carrboro Town Hall and two ballet schools.\n\nThe Gallery has contributed 3 paintings to the Florida Nature Conservation Center, 3 paintings to Soka University of America, and a 1 of 1 signed reproduction, and a 1 of 5 signed reproduction to the Alliance of AIDS Services-Carolina for their annual fund raising auction and sale of Art works, Works of the Heart, in October, 2000 2001, 2002, 2003.\n\nThe Gallery for Peace, part of the Museum for Peace, exhibits contemporary art. The Gallery also teaches art and performance art.\n\nThe Gallery supports: exhibits promoting Peace, human rights through nonviolence, the Victory over Violence campaign, a healthy global environment, the abolition of war, global citizenship, other organizations dedicated to Peace, health care and education for all people.\n\n"}
{"id": "37999111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37999111", "title": "LGBT rights in Alagoas", "text": "LGBT rights in Alagoas\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Alagoas, Brazil enjoy many of the same legal protections available to non-LGBT people. Homosexuality is legal in the state.\n\nOn January 6, 2012, the Court of Alagoas legalized same-sex marriage throughout the state of Alagoas, being the first to do it so. Now, same-sex couples don't need to have judge's approval to have a marriage license.\n"}
{"id": "547741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=547741", "title": "List of places named for DeWitt Clinton", "text": "List of places named for DeWitt Clinton\n\nThis is a list of places in the United States named for DeWitt Clinton. His role in the construction of the Erie Canal created accessible Eastern seaboard markets for Midwestern agriculture and he was widely admired by settlers, especially those hailing from New York.\n\nSome of these places may have been named for both DeWitt Clinton and his uncle George Clinton, an important figure in the founding of the United States. \n\nPort Clinton, Ohio is also named after DeWitt Clinton\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34930576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34930576", "title": "Mauro E. Mujica", "text": "Mauro E. Mujica\n\nMauro E. Mujica (born 1941 in Chile) is the Chairman/CEO of U.S. English, the nation's largest organization advocating for English as the official language of the United States.\n\nMujica was educated at Columbia University and holds a Bachelor’s and master's degree in Architecture.\n\nIn his early career, Mujica was an architect and then Chairman/CEO of the Pace Group, an international architecture and planning firm, from 1983-1987.\n\nHe is fluent in five languages and lives in Washington, D.C. while spending weekends in Boca Raton, Florida.\n"}
{"id": "26941829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26941829", "title": "Mayfield's paradox", "text": "Mayfield's paradox\n\nMayfield’s Paradox states that to keep everyone out of an information system requires an infinite amount of money, and to get everyone onto an information system also requires infinite money, while costs between these extremes are relatively low.\n\nThe paradox is depicted as a U-curve, where the cost of a system is on the vertical axis, and the percentage of humanity that can access the system is on the horizontal axis. Acceptance of this paradox by the information security community was immediate, because it was consistent with the professional experiences of this group. Mayfield’s Paradox points out that, at some point of the curve, additional security becomes unrealistically expensive. Conversely, at some point of the curve, it becomes unrealistically expensive to add additional users.\n\nBased on the Paradox the Menz brothers developed the \"Menz Theorems of Information and Physical Security\". The theorems present two formulas covering access and security of both information systems and physical facilities. They are used to help determine allocation of resources and response levels.\n\n"}
{"id": "427627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427627", "title": "Middle power", "text": "Middle power\n\nIn international relations, a middle power is a sovereign state that is not a superpower nor a great power, but still has large or moderate influence and international recognition. The concept of the \"middle power\" dates back to the origins of the European state system. In the late 16th century, Italian political thinker Giovanni Botero divided the world into three types of states – grandissime (empires), mezano (middle powers) and piccioli (small powers). According to Botero, a mezano or middle power \"...has sufficient strength and authority to stand on its own without the need of help from others.\"\n\nNo agreed standard method defines which states are middle powers. Some researchers use Gross National Product (GNP) statistics to draw lists of middle powers around the world. Economically, middle powers are generally those that are not considered too \"big\" or too \"small,\" however that is defined. However, economics is not always the defining factor. Under the original sense of the term, a middle power was one that had some degree of influence globally, but did not dominate in any one area. However, this usage is not universal, and some define middle power to include nations that can be regarded as regional powers.\n\nAccording to academics at the University of Leicester and University of Nottingham:\n\nmiddle power status is usually identified in one of two ways. The traditional and most common way is to aggregate critical physical and material criteria to rank states according to their relative capabilities. Because countries' capabilities differ, they are categorized as superpowers (or great powers), middle powers or small powers. More recently, it is possible to discern a second method for identifying middle power status by focusing on behavioural attributes. This posits that middle powers can be distinguished from superpowers and smaller powers because of their foreign policy behaviour – middle powers carve out a niche for themselves by pursuing a narrow range and particular types of foreign policy interest. In this way middle powers are countries that use their relative diplomatic skills in the service of international peace and stability. \n\nAccording to Eduard Jordaan of Singapore Management University:\n\nAll middle powers display foreign policy behaviour that stabilises and legitimises the global order, typically through multilateral and cooperative initiatives. However, emerging and traditional middle powers can be distinguished in terms of their mutually-influencing constitutive and behavioural differences. Constitutively, traditional middle powers are wealthy, stable, egalitarian, social democratic and not regionally influential. Behaviourally, they exhibit a weak and ambivalent regional orientation, constructing identities distinct from powerful states in their regions and offer appeasing concessions to pressures for global reform. Emerging middle powers by contrast are semi-peripheral, materially inegalitarian and recently democratised states that demonstrate much regional influence and self-association. Behaviourally, they opt for reformist and not radical global change, exhibit a strong regional orientation favouring regional integration but seek also to construct identities distinct from those of the weak states in their region.\n\nAnother definition, by the Middle Power Initiative: \"Middle power countries are politically and economically significant, internationally respected countries that have renounced the nuclear arms race, a standing that give them significant international credibility.\" Under this definition however, nuclear-armed states like India and Pakistan, and every state participant of the NATO nuclear sharing, would not be middle powers.\n\nAccording to Laura Neak of the International Studies Association:\nAlthough there is some conceptual ambiguity surrounding the term middle power, middle powers are identified most often by their international behavior–called 'middle power diplomacy'—the tendency to pursue multilateral solutions to international problems, the tendency to embrace compromise positions in international disputes, and the tendency to embrace notions of ‘good international citizenship’ to guide...diplomacy. Middle powers are states who commit their relative affluence, managerial skills, and international prestige to the preservation of the international order and peace. Middle powers help to maintain the international order through coalition-building, by serving as mediators and \"go-betweens,\" and through international conflict management and resolution activities, such as UN peacekeeping. Middle powers perform these internationalist activities because of an idealistic imperative they associate with being a middle power. The imperative is that the middle powers have a moral responsibility and collective ability to protect the international order from those who would threaten it, including, at times, the great or principal powers. This imperative was particularly profound during the most intense periods of the Cold War.\n\nAccording to international relations scholar Annette Baker Fox, relationships between middle powers and great powers reveal more intricate behaviors and bargaining schemes than has often been assumed.\nAccording to Soeya Yoshihide, \"Middle Power does not just mean a state’s size or military or economic power. Rather, 'middle power diplomacy' is defined by the issue area where a state invests its resources and knowledge. Middle Power States avoid a direct confrontation with great powers, but they see themselves as ‘moral actors’ and seek their own role in particular issue areas, such as human rights, environment, and arms regulations. Middle powers are the driving force in the process of transnational institutional-building.\"\n\nCharacteristics of middle power diplomacy include:\n\n\nThe Middle Powers Initiative (MPI), a program of the Global Security Institute, highlights the importance of middle powers diplomacy. Through MPI, eight international non-governmental organizations are able to work primarily with middle power governments to encourage and educate the nuclear weapons states to take immediate practical steps that reduce nuclear dangers, and commence negotiations to eliminate nuclear weapons. Middle power countries are particularly influential in issues related to arms control, being that they are politically and economically significant, internationally respected countries that have renounced the nuclear arms race, a standing that gives them significant political credibility.\n\nThe term first entered Canadian political discourse after World War II. Prime Minister Louis St. Laurent, for example called Canada \"a power of the middle rank\" and helped to lay out the classical definition of Canadian middle power diplomacy. When he was advocating for Canada's election to the United Nations Security Council, he said that while \"...the special nature of [Canada's] relationship to the United Kingdom and the United States complicates our responsibilities,\" Canada was not a \"satellite\" of either but would \"continue to make our decisions objectively, in the light of our obligations to our own people and their interest in the welfare of the international community.\" Canadian leaders believed Canada was a middle power because it was a junior partner in larger alliances (e.g. NATO, NORAD), was actively involved in resolving disputes outside its own region (e.g. Suez Crisis), was not a former colonial power and therefore neutral in anti-colonial struggles, worked actively in the United Nations to represent the interests of smaller nations and to prevent the dominance of the superpowers (often being elected to the United Nations Security Council for such reasons), and because it was involved in humanitarian and peacekeeping efforts around the world.\n\nIn March 2008, Australian Prime Minister Kevin Rudd defined his country's foreign policy as one of \"middle power diplomacy\", along the lines of similar criteria. Australia would \"influence international decision-makers\" on issues such as \"global economic, security and environmental challenges\".\n\nThe overlaps between the lists of middle powers and great powers show that there is no unanimous agreement among authorities.\n\nNations such as the United States, China, France, Russia and the United Kingdom are generally considered to be great powers due to their economic, military or strategic importance, their status as recognised nuclear powers and their permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council. Japan and Germany are great powers too, though due to their large advanced economies rather than their strategic and hard power capabilities (i.e., the lack of permanent seats on the United Nations Security Council or strategic military reach). Yet sources have at times referred to these nations as middle powers.<ref name=\"European Security After 9/11'\">P. Shearman, M. Sussex, \"European Security After 9/11\"(Ashgate, 2004) - According to Shearman and Sussex, both the UK and France were great powers now reduced to middle power status.</ref> People in the field of international relations,such as Professor Kirton and a Sciences Po academic, support the claim that Italy and Canada are great powers due to their status and membership in the G7. Moreover, according to a 2014 report by the Hague Centre for Strategic Studies (HCSS), Italy is listed among the great powers. Although broad academic support for India as a great power is uncommon, some in the field of political science, such as Malik Mohan and Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, consider India to be a great power too. In addition to it, Brazil is sometimes referred as a great power due to its economic power and influence. Brazil, Canada, India and Italy are also described at times as middle powers.\n\nAs with the great powers, there is no unanimous agreement among authorities as to which countries are considered middle powers. Lists are often the subject of much debate and tend to place comparatively large countries (e.g. Argentina) alongside relatively smaller ones (e.g. Norway). Clearly not all middle powers are of equal status; some are considered regional powers and members of the G20 (e.g. Australia), while others could very easily be considered small powers (e.g. Czech Republic). Some larger middle powers also play important roles in the United Nations and other international organisations such as the WTO.\n\nThe following is a list of countries that have been, at some point in time, considered middle powers by academics or other experts:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24782497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24782497", "title": "Ministry of Science, Research and Technology (Iran)", "text": "Ministry of Science, Research and Technology (Iran)\n\nThe Ministry of Science, Research and Technology (MSRT) is the government ministry of science, research and technology in the Islamic Republic of Iran. State-run (non-medical) universities of Iran are under the direct supervision of Iran's Ministry of Science, Research and Technology. The ministry was established in 2000 when the ministry of culture and higher education was renamed as the ministry of science, research and technology.\n\nIn 2000 the ministry set up the Aerospace Research Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "55556600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55556600", "title": "Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy – Libya", "text": "Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy – Libya\n\nThe Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy in Libya is a movement gaining momentum throughout Libya to advocate for the reinstatement of the 1951 Constitution and the restoration of the historic Senussi monarchy.\n\nSupport for the 1951 Constitution emerged from the instability and chaos created by the Libyan Civil War, during which time the country grew divided across political, tribal, regional and ideological lines. The movement views the 1951 Constitution as the viable and credible path towards a democratic, unified, and independent new Libya. Furthermore, the movement holds that Prince Mohammed El Senussi should assume leadership as the legitimate heir to Senussi throne.\n\nAffiliated grassroots campaigns termed as Movements for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy are happening on the ground in major cities such as Tripoli, Benghazi, Zliten, Kufra, Misrata, Sebha, Jebel Akhdar, Khums, Nalut, Jadu, Sebratha, Aziziya, Ghyrian and Karabulli.\n\nThe pre-revolutionary Constitution, instituted in December 1951 and later amended in 1963, was drafted by the Libyan National Assembly under the aegis of the United Nations. It established a constitutional and hereditary monarchy under the leadership of King Idris I of Libya.\n\nThe 1951 Constitution is viewed by the Libyan people as a symbol of the freedom and independence the country achieved in post-war Libya. It is based upon a democratic system of government with a representative parliamentary system under a constitutional monarchy. Many of the 1951 Constitution’s articles established a set of fundamental rights for its citizens, including civil, political, and property rights, freedom of thought and speech, religious tolerance and universal adult suffrage.\n\nArticle 11 of the 1951 Constitution safeguards human rights:“Libyans shall be equal before the law. They shall enjoy equal civil and political rights, shall have the same opportunities, and be subject to the same public duties and obligations, without distinction of religion, belief, race, language, wealth, kinship or political or social opinions.”Additionally, Article 12 holds that “Personal liberty shall be guaranteed and everyone shall be entitled to equal protection of the law.”\n\nArticle 21 protects rights with respect to religion:“Freedom of conscience shall be absolute. The State shall respect all religions and faiths and shall ensure to foreigners residing in its territory freedom of conscience and the right freely to practice religion so long as it is not a breach of public order and is not contrary to morality.” Freedom of speech and opinion both publicly and in the press are protected in Articles 22 – 26: “Freedom of thought shall be guaranteed. Everyone shall have the right to express his opinion and to publish it by all means and methods. But this freedom may not be abused in any way which is contrary to public order and morality.” “Freedom of press and of printing shall be guaranteed within the limits of the law.”“Everyone shall be free to use any language in his private transactions or religious or cultural matters or in the Press or any other publications or in public meetings.”“The right of peaceful meetings is guaranteed within the limits of law.”\n\nIn 1837, Muhammad ibn Ali as-Senussi established the Senussi political-religious tariqa (Sufi order) in Mecca. Muhammad ibn Ali as-Senussi's grandson, who assumed the leadership of the Senussi order in 1917, became King Idris of Libya in 1951.\n\nFor over a century after its founding, the Senussi monarchy played a unifying role in Libya and continues to be regarded as a fundamental part of the country’s history, helping to protect it from French colonial expansion and the Kingdom of Italy’s colonization in the early 1900s along with playing a crucial role against forces in North Africa during World War II.\n\nThe monarchy was in place from 1951 until Colonel Muammar Gaddafi’s coup in 1969 and brought stability and good governance to Libya.\n\nLibyan royalists view Prince Mohammed El Senussi, great-nephew of King Idris, as the legitimate heir to the Senussi throne. In 1992, El Senussi’s ailing father, then Crown Prince Hasan as-Senussi, appointed him as successor to the throne.\n\nThroughout the strife of the Libyan crisis, Mohammed El Senussi has vocalized his patriotism and advocated for a more prosperous Libya. He has commented on many Libyan matters through the years and has supported activists throughout the civil war.\n\nSpeaking out in 2011 against actions perpetrated by the Ghaddafi regime, El Senussi said: “I ask the international community to put pressure on Ghaddafi to stop killing his own people […] anything to stop the killing of my people, and to put pressure on Ghaddafi. It’s for them to decide.”\n\nIn response to questions about returning to power, El Senussi stated “I see myself as a servant to the Libyan people. They will decide what they want. My goal is to serve my people as much as I can.”\n\nA cousin of El Senussi, Idris bin Abdullah al-Senussi, claims that he is the rightful heir to the throne, although this claim is speculative given that he seems to be only distantly related to King Idris.\n\nMultiple authority figures throughout Libya have publicly championed a return of the 1951 Constitution under the leadership of Mohammed El Senussi.\n\nIn July 2015, multiple members of the Constitutional Drafting Authority (CDA), the body tasked with drafting a constitution, signed a petition demanding the return of the 1951 Constitution and monarchy, arguing this is the only solution to the crisis in Libya.\n\nThat same month, the Mayor of the large Libyan city of Al Baidha publicly released a formal letter proclaiming his support for the 1951 Constitution as a tool to ensure stability and security during a time when so many Libyan citizens were being killed.\n\nIn August 2015, the Federal Bloc asked the House of Representatives to endorse the 1951 Constitution “warning that if this demand is not answered it will delegate parliament members from Cyrenaica to reinstate the constitution within the region and to take the necessary action to achieve this.”\n\nIn a 2014 interview with \"Al-Hayat\", Libyan Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mohamed Abdelaziz, proclaimed that he would “take it upon himself” to call for reinstatement of the monarchy, and furthermore that it was “his right as a citizen first and foremost, before being a minister.” He expressed his belief that a return to monarchy would be a “political umbrella” to unite the country: “I am not talking about a king who rules, but about a symbolic figure like in Belgium, Britain and Spain. When we talk about royal legitimacy, we mean centrist values, the Senussi movement and the history and loyalty for late King Idris al-Senussi.”\n\nGroups across cities in Libya referring to themselves as Movements for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy are well-documented and have gathered a significant following on social media.\n\nThe movement in Libya’s capital city of Tripoli has gathered thousands of followers on its Facebook page. The movement regularly shares relevant events, articles, press releases, speeches, and other activity advocating for the return of the monarchy and 1951 Constitution.\n\nJebel Akhdar’s movement has almost 7,000 active followers, and the movement active the city of Zliten has close to 15,000 social media followers. The movement in Zliten recently posted:“The nostalgia for the constitution of the state of independence is not nostalgia for the past, but nostalgia for a homeland that has been stolen.”\n\n\"The New York Times\" published an article in February 2016 suggesting that a restoration of the monarchy would “let Libyans rally behind a respected father figure and begin to rebuild their splintered nation.”\n\nDaniel Kawczynski, a Foreign Affairs Select Committee member in the British Parliament, wrote a June 2015 article in the \"New Statesman\" stating “if the people of Libya succeed in restoring their 1951 Constitution, they would put in place a tolerant, rights-based, democratic system of government, with a constitutional monarchy that would be a model for the region.”\n\nIn July 2014, \"The National Interest\" published an article titled “The Case for Monarchy in Libya.” It described the varying tribal relations from among regions, which cause a splintered Libyan society, and asserts that the solution to unification “can be found in Libya’s past, before a twenty-seven-year-old Gaddafi launched his Green Revolution and turned the country’s political system to dust: constitutional monarchy.” It also mentions the “considerable influence” the Senussi family – King Idris specifically – had on commanding respect from the various tribes and strains of Islam.\n"}
{"id": "25211086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25211086", "title": "Nebuchadnezzar III", "text": "Nebuchadnezzar III\n\nNebuchadnezzar III ruled over Babylon (c. 522 BC). He claimed to be the second son of Nabonidus.\n\nHe led a short-lived rebellion against Darius I of Persia, who routed his army in battle at the Tigris on December 13, 522 BC, and then at the Euphrates near Zazannu. Nebuchadnezzar III fled back to his capital with his remaining cavalry.\n\nDarius subsequently besieged the high-walled city of Babylon, succeeding in taking the capital, and Nebuchadnezzar III was put to death.\n\nHis exact identity is uncertain. According to the Behistun Inscription, Darius claimed that he was an impostor called Nidinta-Bel, but some historians consider that he probably did have some connection with the previous Babylonian royal family.\n\nHe should not be confused with Nebuchadnezzar IV, who led a similar revolt against the Persians around a year later.\n"}
{"id": "24547557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24547557", "title": "New Public Administration", "text": "New Public Administration\n\nNew Public Administration is an anti-positivist, anti-technical, and anti-hierarchical reaction against traditional public administration. A practiced theory in response to the ever changing needs of the public and how institutions and administrations go about solving them. Focus is on the role of government and how they can provide these services to citizens in which are a part of public interest, by means, but not limited to public policy.\n\nNew Public Administration traces its origins to the first Minnowbrook Conference held in 1968 under the patronage of Dwight Waldo. This conference brought together the top scholars in public administration and management to discuss and reflect on the state of the field and its future. The 1960s in the USA was a time of unusual social and political turbulence and upheaval. In this context, Waldo concluded that neither the study nor the practice of public administration was responding suitably to the escalating turmoil and the complications that arose from those conditions. Part of the reasoning for this Waldo argued, was the general mistrust that had become associated with public administration itself. A call to revamp the ethical obligations of the service sector was necessary in rebuilding the public's trust of government and bureaucracy in which had been plagued by corruption and the narrow self interests of others. Moving toward a more ethical public service, then, required attention to the underlying values that support public service-and public servants-in any sector.\n\nThe new public management(npm) did not offer public servants an alternative model to help them resolve emerging conflicts and tensions. Concepts of citizenship, democracy or public interest have evolved over time and they are continuing to evolve. Consequently, the role of government and the role of the public service are being transformed in ways that push beyond the constraints of the Classic model he lenses of varying perspectives can challenge, clarify, and create a history that boasts enough depth to serve as not only a history in a traditional sense but also an interactive timeline that ignites constant improvement. At its core, public service requires a vision that extends beyond narrow self-interest. Waldo sees public administration and bureaucracy as integrally bound to civilization and to our culture in two senses: the evolution of civilization itself was dependent upon public administration and related concepts are constitutive elements within out specific civilization and culture.\n\nNew Public Administration theory deals with the following issues:\n\nFirst, a ‘new’ theory should start with the ideal of democratic citizenship. The public service derives its true meaning from its mandate to serve citizens to advance the public good. This is the raison d’être of the institution, the source of motivation and pride of all those who choose to make it their life, whether for a season or for an entire career.\n\nThese are:\n\n\nNPA provides solutions for achieving these goals, popularly called 4 D's i.e. Decentralisation, Debureaucratisation, Delegation and Democratisation.\n\nThough New Public Administration brought public administration closer to political science, it was criticized as anti-theoretic and anti-management. Robert T. Golembiewski describes it as radicalism in words and status quo in skills and technologies. Further, it must be counted as only a cruel reminder of the gap in the field between aspiration and performance. Golembiewski considers it as a temporary and transitional phenomena. In other words, we can say that the solutions for achieving the goals and anti-goals were not provided by the NPA scholars explicitly. Secondly, how much one should decentralize or delegate or debureaucratize or democratize in order to achieve the goals? On this front NPA is totally silent.\n\nAs said in \"A New Synthesis of Public Administration,\" governments have always been called upon to make difficult decisions, undertake complicated initiatives and face complex problems characteristics of the period. This is not in dispute. Nonetheless, the current circumstances is to determine what can be handled in the traditional way and what must be done differently.\n\nGovernments have always been called upon to face difficult problems. Setting priorities and making choices have always been difficult. For example, eliminating a sizable deficit is “merely” a difficult problem, although it is hard to believe when one is in the middle of such a heart-wrenching exercise. This entails making choices among equally deserving public purposes and making tough decisions about what should be preserved for the future. It requires reconciling future needs with what could garner a sufficient degree of public support in the short term to move forward. Academic public administration has lagged considerably behind practicing public administration. Improved curricula and a refocusing of emphasis upon the policy dynamics of government administration will be important factors in enticing more students to study of public administration. It is more important to increase the number and improving the geographic spread of universities with public affairs programs, integrating public affairs components into the curricula of other graduate and professional programs, developing many more in-service, mid-career educational programs for public servants, and utilizing existing resources to strengthen public affairs programs.\n\nThe motives behind the promotion of New Public Administration is also in question in the case of Hong Kong. As Anthony Cheung argues, officials often employed the rhetoric of New Public Administration to roll back public expenditure and decrease welfare provision in the 1990s. Governors at that time used the excuse of administrative efficiency to curtail the power of the bureaucracy.\n\nFelix and Lloyd Nigro observe that New Public Administration has seriously jolted the traditional concepts and outlook of the discipline and enriched the subject by imparting a wider perspective by linking it closely to the society.\nThe overall focus in NPA movement seems to be to make administration to be less \"generic\" and more \"public\", less \"descriptive\" and more \"prescriptive\", less \"institution-oriented\" and more \"client-oriented\", less \"neutral\" and more \"normative\" but should be no less scientific all the same.\n"}
{"id": "20169520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20169520", "title": "Non-dictatorship", "text": "Non-dictatorship\n\nIn voting theory, non-dictatorship is a property of social choice functions which requires that the results of voting cannot simply mirror that of any single person's preferences without consideration of the other voters.\n\nThe property of non-dictatorship is satisfied if there is no single voter \"i\" with the individual preference order P, such that P is always the societal (\"winning\") preference order. With other words, the preferences of individual \"i\" should not always prevail.\n\nBlind voting systems (with at least two voters) automatically satisfy the non-dictatorship property.\n\nNon-dictatorship is one of the necessary conditions in Arrow's impossibility theorem. In \"Social Choice and Individual Values\", Kenneth Arrow defines non-dictatorship as:\n"}
{"id": "2059630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2059630", "title": "Nonpossessory interest in land", "text": "Nonpossessory interest in land\n\nA nonpossessory interest in land is a term of the law of property to describe any of a category of rights held by one person to use land that is in the possession of another. Such rights can generally be created in one of two ways: either by an express agreement between the party who owns the land and the party who seeks to own the interest; or by an order of a court.\n\nUnder the common law, there are five variations of such rights. These are:\n"}
{"id": "5801344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5801344", "title": "Normalization (sociology)", "text": "Normalization (sociology)\n\nNormalization refers to social processes through which ideas and actions come to be seen as 'normal' and become taken-for-granted or 'natural' in everyday life. In sociological theory, normalization appears in two forms.\nFirst, the concept of normalization is found in the work of Michel Foucault, especially \"Discipline and Punish\", in the context of his account of disciplinary power. As Foucault used the term, normalization involved the construction of an idealized norm of conduct – for example, the way a proper soldier ideally should stand, march, present arms, and so on, as defined in minute detail – and then rewarding or punishing individuals for respectively conforming to or deviating from this ideal. In Foucault's account, normalization was one of an ensemble of tactics for exerting the maximum social control with the minimum expenditure of force, which Foucault calls \"disciplinary power\". Disciplinary power emerged over the course of the 19th century, came to be used extensively in military barracks, hospitals, asylums, schools, factories, offices, and so on, and hence became a crucial aspect of social structure in modern societies.\n\nSecond, normalization process theory is a middle-range theory used mainly in medical sociology and science and technology studies to provide a framework for understanding the social processes by which new ways of thinking, working and organizing become routinely incorporated in everyday work. Normalization process theory has its roots in empirical studies of technological innovation in healthcare, and especially in the evaluation of complex interventions.\n\nThere are different behavioral attitudes humans accept as normal, such as grief for a loved one, avoiding danger, and not participating in cannibalism.\n\nThe world is constantly changing and many things can change the situation an individual is in. Many influences such as past experiences, environment, mental strength, physical strength, people, and the media can affect a person's behavior. A person can decide to let certain things influence them. This will determine if the person is able to make a decision rationally or not. Some people fail to see the effects of their actions after letting influences affect their actions.\n\nPeople can greatly be affected by their mood. One's judgement and emotional well-being is influenced by one's mood. A negative mood can cause someone to be unproductive and it will show in the person's performance. Positive moods can make a person be more active and productive. If the person is well emotion-wise, they are full of energy and are able to stay positive.\n\nChildren are known for developing behaviors based on family, friends and media influences. A child may not know what they were doing is right or wrong. They must be able to learn from experiences if their actions are right or wrong. It is the parent's job to teach the child whether it is socially accepted or not. As the child develops from a child to a young adult, most of their influence will come from their friends. It will become harder for parents to tell how the child behaves as the child grows older.\n\nYoung adults and teenagers are heavily affected by looking up to role models. Young adults are influenced to act, talk, dress and behave similarly to their role models. This can either be a positive or negative for the individual. Looking up to a role model can have positive effects, as may influence young adults to strive for success and it brings the best out of the person to do well. Positive role models are people able to overcome obstacles, inspire others, and achievements of success. However, negative role models may model bad behaviors like bullying, drug usage, and cheating, which may lead to failure rather than success. Young adults may learn to avoid problems rather than solve them. The problems with blindly copying a role model is that people start to lose a sense of identity.\n\nGrief is the deep sorrow usually caused by someone's death. It has now become a normal human reaction to a loss of a loved one. It is not uncommon for someone to be in sadness. Many have to deal with coping with grief.\n\nBody markings such as tattoos and piercings were once considered unaccepted, many people today use body markings as a form of expression. It is not uncommon to see doctors, lawyers, soldiers, police officers, and other professionals to have them.\n\nDuring the 1900s homosexuality was not accepted as a normal behavior and people attracted to the same gender were considered different and were heavily discriminated against. Over the years, it has now been accepted in places such as the United States, Canada and other places around the world.\n\nLaughter signals acceptance and trust in a group. This is often why laughter is contagious, and explains why people are unlikely to laugh alone.\n\nAbnormal behavior is broken up to two types: atypical and maladaptive. Atypical behavior is not necessarily harmful, but maladaptive behavior could potentially be harmful.\n"}
{"id": "28404988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28404988", "title": "Pavel Astakhov", "text": "Pavel Astakhov\n\nPavel Alekseyevich Astakhov () (born 8 September 1966 in Moscow) is a Russian politician, celebrity lawyer and television personality.\n\nOn 30 December 2009 Dmitry Medvedev named Astakhov as the Children's Rights Commissioner for the President of the Russian Federation (children's ombudsman). He left the job in September 2016 after facing severe criticism due to his comments on the death of 14 children in a shipwreck.\n\nAstakhov graduated from the law faculty of the Dzerzhinsky KGB School in Moscow in 1991. In 2002 he received a Master of Laws from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. In 2006 Astakhov received a Doctor of Laws in Russia. Firstly the community Dissernet, then the Russian State Library tested his doctoral thesis for plagiarism and discovered that only 0.68% of the text was original work, the remainder having been copy-pasted from other sources.\n\nHe speaks English, Swedish, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese and French as well as Russian.\n\nAstakhov began practising law in 1991. In 1994 he became a member of the Moscow Bar and set up his own law firm, which has been known since 2003 as \"Pavel Astakhov Lawyers Board\". Astakhov represented some of Russia’s most high-profile public figures, including Moscow Mayor Yury Luzhkov, the descendants of the Romanov dynasty, several Russian pop-stars and others.\n\nThe first case which gave prominence to Pavel Astakhov was that of Edmond Pope. On 5 April 2000, Pope, a retired US naval intelligence officer, was arrested in Moscow by the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) after making contact with a Russian torpedo scientist. Pope was charged with espionage, seeking plans for the high-speed underwater VA-111 Shkval missile.\n\nEdmond Pope was only the second American in 40 years to stand trial for espionage in Moscow. The first, Francis Gary Powers, the pilot of a U-2 spy plane that was shot down in 1960, was exchanged for a convicted Soviet spy, Rudolf Abel.\n\nIn December 2000, Astakhov surprised the court hearing the case by delivering his closing arguments in verse. He read out a 12-page lyric he had composed in iambic pentameters, urging the court to acquit Pope. The court was not impressed by Astakhov's poetry skills and Pope received a 20-year jail sentence; he was later pardoned by Vladimir Putin and was flown back to US.\n\nIn 2000-2001 Pavel Astakhov helped Russian media tycoon Vladimir Gusinsky to escape two fraud charges.\n\nOn 13 June 2000, Gusinsky was arrested on charges of stealing property worth more than $10 million from the state-owned \"Russian Video\" company, but three days later, after a petition by Astakhov, Gusinsky was released on bail. Later, Astakhov and another prominent lawyer, Henri Reznik, managed to halt the criminal case against Gusinsky, who flew to Spain. Another case was opened on 17 September, alleging the embezzlement of $300 million from Gazprom, and on 17 November prosecutors reopened the first case. \nGusinsky was arrested in Spain on an international arrest warrant on 12 December. On 22 December he was released on bail of 1 billion pesetas ($5.5 million).\n\nPavel Astakhov and Gusinsky's defence team claimed that the charges were politically motivated, and on 24 April 2001 the Spanish judge Baltasar Garzon declined to extradite Gusinsky to Russia.\n\nFollowing his role in the Pope and Gusinsky cases, Astakhov was invited to the USA to participate in a round table organized by the US Congress. He spent the following year in Pittsburgh completing a Master's in Law.\n\nIn December 2003, Pavel Astakhov sent a letter to the US Embassy in Moscow, advising President George W. Bush and Ambassador Alexander Vershbow that he would like to represent Saddam Hussein. Asked by a reporter whether he was prepared to defend Saddam Hussein free of charge, Astakhov replied: \"I do not think that the former president of Iraq will agree to accept free legal aid\". Saddam Hussein, however, did not have a chance to use Astakhov's services.\n\nIn 2003 Astakhov became the host of \"Chas Suda\" (\"Hour of Judgment\") which aired on the REN TV channel. It was the first Russian judge show. Unlike \"Judge Judy\" in the USA, both parties in these trials are played by actors, with Astakhov acting as judge. The show became enormously popular and Astakhov set up a production company, Pravo TV, to make other programs with a legal theme.\n\nAstakhov is also a prolific author, writing about his experiences in the Moscow legal system, as well as producing a series of novels featuring lawyer protagonists.\n\nIn the early days of Vladimir Putin, Astakhov was a trenchant critic of the Russian authorities, accusing them of political persecution of his clients, Vladimir Gusinsky and Edmond Pope. He spoke of a \"total disregard for human rights\" and claimed that the prosecutors \"blindly execute the wishes of the authorities\".\n\nLater Astakhov made a 180-degree turn in his political affiliation and became one of the most prominent supporters of the top leadership of Russia. In November 2007 he founded and headed the national movement \"Za Putina\" (For Putin). At the founding conference, Astakhov described the aim of the new movement as follows: \"Don't we choose a master in the house? Well, here we are proposing to find a master for the country.\"\n\nOn 30 December 2009 President Medvedev appointed Astakhov as Children's Rights Commissioner for the President of the Russian Federation, a post often referred to as children's ombudsman. At the time of his appointment, Astakhov was one of Russia's leading private lawyers, but he did not have a child welfare background. His predecessor and the first holder of the office, Alexei Golovan, had resigned unexpectedly on 26 December, just months after his appointment. (Golovan remained involved in child rights issues and was in 2012 involved in the development of legislation to protect the rights of children in orphanages.)\n\nAstakhov's critics in Russia have accused him of being an opportunist and a publicity seeker. Some child advocacy groups wished him \"to pay more attention to protecting the rights of children in Russia and less to PR for himself\". In April 2010 Astakhov described child advocacy groups as the \"best form of legalisation of the paedophile community\".\n\nAs ombudsman Astakhov sought to raise awareness of the welfare of Russian children adopted by foreign families. According to official Russian statistics, a total of 19 adopted Russian children had died worldwide as a result of beatings or negligence, since 1991. Some of Astakhov's critics alleged that he paid too much attention to the abuse cases after international adoptions and not enough to child abuse cases in Russia itself, where some 2,000 children were killed every year as a result of domestic child abuse. President Medvedev told Astakhov in December 2011: \"I think that we cannot make any distinction here between cases abroad and cases at home. These are all crimes, serious crimes.\"\n\nAstakhov was deeply involved in the preparation of the Russian-US treaty on adoption, signed by the US Secretary of State and the Foreign Minister of Russia on 13 July 2011. This treaty bans the independent adoption of Russian children, leaving adoption through agencies as the only option. American citizens who wish to adopt a child from Russia through an agency must pay $40–50 thousand whereas for Russian citizens the procedures are completely free of charge. Moreover, adoptive parents in many Russian regions receive financial aid from the regional authorities, which sometimes amount to RUR 300 thousand (about $10 thousand) per child.\n\nPresident Medvedev told Pavel Astakhov on 3 December 2011: \"There is nothing wrong with foreign adoptions of our children... the fact that foreign citizens do it does not tarnish them in any way, and on the contrary shows their desire to help these children.\" However, two weeks later, at Vladimir Putin's annual question and answer session with the public, broadcast live across Russia, Astakhov declared himself \"an absolute opponent of international adoption\" and asked Putin to change the law and to ban all international adoptions in Russia. \"We must, as much as possible, keep our children in our country,\" Astakhov said in April 2010.\n\nIn April 2012 Astakhov suggested that Russian citizens should apply to adopt US children, although there were still 665,987 orphans in Russia itself according to the latest statistics and the number of adoptions in Russia had been falling each year since 2007.\n\nIn February 2012 Astakhov announced that in the next 5–8 years most of Russian orphanages and boarding schools would be shut down, and their residents adopted by Russian foster families. He said that more state funds \"should be allocated to foster families\" to \"give a fresh impetus to foster parents to adopt a child... Russia without Orphans slogan should become one of the top priorities for the government and public servants\".\n\nSome experts, however, pointed out that Astakhov's reliance on financial incentives had led to an increasing number of children being returned to orphanages. According to the report of the chairwoman of the Russian parliamentary committee on family and children Yelena Mizulina in April 2010, thousands of children had been taken in by foster parents for financial reasons, and subsequently rejected after the financial assistance had been paid. Mizulina said that 30,000 children had been sent back to institutions by their Russian adoptive, foster or guardianship families in the last three years: \"Specialists call such a boom in returns a humanitarian catastrophe\".\n\nDespite the grave Russian domestic statistics of disruption of adoptions, Pavel Astakhov drew media attention to the case of a 7-year-old, Artem Saveliev (Justin Hansen), who was adopted in 2009 by the Tennessee nurse Torry Hansen, but in April 2010 was sent back to Russia with a note saying that he was \"mentally unstable\". Astakhov used this case to call for more restrictions on international adoptions in Russia.\n\nIn 2015, Astakhov defended the marriage of a 47-year-old police chief to 17-year-old Luiza \"Kheda\" Goilabiyeva in Chechnya. There were widespread reports that Goilabiyeva had been threatened with kidnap and violence if she did not agree to marry Nazhud Guchigov, though she later gave an interview with LifeNews where she stated that she had married Guchigov of her own free will. Although the marriage contravened Russian laws on polygamy and the legal age of adulthood, Astakhov defended the marriage, saying that \"sexual maturity happens earlier [in the Caucasus]\" and \"there are places where women are already shriveled at age 27, and by our standards they look like they're 50.\" His comments prompted many women to post photographs of their wrinkles under the hashtag #сморщеннаяженщина (#wrinkledwoman). The focus of the issue has since become child marriage, with Astakhov asserting that \"you should not be worried about early marriages … but about the early sex life of teenagers. The two need to be kept separate. Romeo and Juliet dreamed of getting married, not of intimate relations.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30864987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30864987", "title": "Pillarisation", "text": "Pillarisation\n\nPillarisation () is the politico-denominational segregation of a society. These societies were (and in some areas, still are) \"vertically\" divided into several segments or \"pillars\" (\"zuilen\", singular \"zuil\") according to different religions or ideologies. The best-known examples of this have historically occurred in the Netherlands and Belgium.\n\nThese pillars all have their own social institutions: their own newspapers, broadcasting organisations, political parties, trade unions and farmers' associations, banks, schools, hospitals, universities, Scouting organisations and sports clubs. Some companies even hire only personnel of a specific religion or ideology. This leads to a situation where many people have no personal contact with people from another pillar.\n\nAustrian, Iraqi Arab, Israeli, Lebanese, Maltese, Nigerian, Northern Irish, and Scottish societies may also be considered to have displayed aspects of pillarisation, historically or in the present time.\n\nThe Netherlands had (at least) three pillars: Protestant, Catholic and Social-democratic. Pillarisation was originally initiated by Abraham Kuyper and his Christian Democratic and neo-Calvinist (\"gereformeerd\") Anti-Revolutionary Party (ARP) in the late 1800s; it was part of their philosophy of sphere sovereignty.\n\nThe Catholic pillar had the highest degree of organisation, because Catholic clergy promoted the organisation of almost the whole life of Catholics in confessional institutions. Yet, the conservative Protestant pillar and the Socialist pillar, which mainly consisted of industrial workers, were nearly as tightly knit. The Protestant (\"hervormd\") Christian Historical Union (CHU) (formed in 1908) did not organise a pillar of its own but linked itself to the Protestant pillar shaped by the ARP.\n\nPeople who were not associated with one of these pillars, mainly middle- and upper-class latitudinarian Protestants and atheists, arguably set up their own pillar: the liberal or \"general\" pillar. Ties between general organisations were much weaker than within the other three pillars. Liberals actually rejected the voluntary segregation of the society, and denied the existence of a \"liberal pillar\". The political parties usually associated with this group were the Free-minded Democratic League (VDB) and Liberal State Party (LSP). Communists, Humanists and ultra-orthodox Protestants also set up similar organisations; however, such groups were much smaller.\n\nThe development of pillarisation in the Netherlands was favoured by the emancipation of working and lower-middle classes on the one hand, and the execution of elite control on the other hand. The emancipation of the working class led to the establishment of socialist parties, trade unions, media, cooperative shops and collectively organised leisure activities. This \"full care\" of the socialist movement for its members existed similarly in other European countries. The emancipation of the conservative and often strongly religious lower-middle class fostered the emergence of the Protestant pillar. While the Dutch bourgeoisie was rather liberal and adhered to \"enlightened\" Protestantism, a large part of the lower-middle class embraced a more orthodox Calvinist theology taught by preacher and politician Abraham Kuyper.\n\nIn 1866 Kuyper founded the \"gereformeerd\" (\"reformed\") current of Protestantism that was both more conservative and more popular with ordinary people than the established Protestant churches in the Netherlands. Kuyper's worldview asserted the principle of \"sphere sovereignty\", rejecting both ecclesiasticism (rule of the Church over all parts of the society) and statist secularism (rule of the state over all parts of the society). Instead he argued that both had their own spheres in which the other was not to interfere. In 1879 he founded the Anti-Revolutionary Party as the political wing of his religious movement and core of the Protestant pillar.\n\nAt the same time, new and old elites tried to maintain their control over the newly emancipated social groups. For instance, the Catholic clergy set up confessional unions to prevent Catholic workers from joining socialist unions. One reason behind the formation of Christian parties was to counter the feared rise of left-wing mass parties.\n\nThe following table shows the most important institutions by pillar:\nAfter World War II (during which even the Dutch resistance was pillarised) liberals and socialists, but also Protestants and Catholics, began to doubt the pillarised system. They founded a unity movement, the People's Movement \"Nederlandse Volksbeweging\". Progressives of all pillars (including the Catholic resistance movement \"Christofoor\") were united in the aim to renew the political system (\"doorbraak\", \"breakthrough\"). But pillarisation was ingrained in Dutch society, and could not be defeated that easily. In order to force this breakthrough, the socialist Social Democratic Workers' Party, the left-liberal VDB and the Christian-socialist CDU united to form the PvdA, a progressive party, which was open to all people. The new party did not, however, gain enough support under Catholics or Reformed and the PvdA became encapsulated in the socialist pillar.\n\nTelevision broadcasting was also pillarised, but everyone watched the same broadcasts nonetheless, since initially only one channel was available in the Netherlands (during the 1950s). During the 1960s the pillars largely broke down, particularly under political criticism from D66 and the group \"\" (New Left) in PvdA. Because of this and of increased mobility, many people could see that people from the other pillars were not that different from themselves. Increased wealth and education made people independent of many of the pillarised institutions, and young people did not want to be associated with these organisations anymore.\n\nIn 1973, two main Protestant parties, ARP and CHU, merged with the Catholic KVP to form the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA). They first participated in the 1977 general elections. In 1976, the Catholic trade union (NKV) started to cooperate with the trade union of the Socialist pillar (NVV), to merge into the Federatie Nederlandse Vakbeweging (FNV) in 1982.\n\nThe pillarisation of society has not fully disappeared, and many remnants can still be seen in the 21st century: public television, for instance, is still divided in several organisations, instead of being one organisation. The Netherlands has both public and religious schools, a divide which is also inherited from pillarisation. Moreover, some communities continue to behave as small \"pillars\" , although rather than forming the structure of society (a pillar), this currently moves them outside the mainstream of society. Members of the Reformed Churches (liberated) have their own (primary and secondary) schools, their own national newspaper, and some other organisations, such as a labour union. Members of several pietist Reformed Churches have also founded their own schools, newspaper and political party. Increasingly, Muslim immigrants in the Netherlands are also using the legal possibilities created for the pillarised structure of society, by setting up their own schools.\n\nApart from having no Protestant pillar, Pillarisation in Belgium was very similar to that in Netherlands. There was also no \"general\" pillar, but a politically well-organised liberal pillar. In 1911, the British sociologist Seebohm Rowntree noted that in Belgium:\n\nIn both Flanders and Wallonia, societies are pillarised. In Flanders, Catholics were the dominant pillar, while the Socialists dominated in Wallonia. Even though the liberals are stronger in Belgium (particularly in Brussels) than in the Netherlands, they are still relatively weak, owing to their rather small, bourgeois support: liberal trade unions are very small. \"De Tijd\", a financial daily, is the newspaper aligned with the liberals, as its readership consists mainly of liberal supporters. However, a Flemish newspaper with historical liberal roots, \"Het Laatste Nieuws\", also exists.\n\nDenominational (many Catholic and a few Jewish) schools receive some public money, although not parity of funding as in the Netherlands, so that tuition is almost completely free. Belgian universities charge more or less the same, relatively low, tuition fees.\n\nAs a consequence of the language struggle in the latter half of the twentieth century, the pillars split over the language issue, which turnout became the most significant divisive factor in the nation. Now every language group has three pillars of its own. The pillar system remained to be the primordial societal dividing force much longer than it was in the Netherlands. Only near the end of the Cold War did it begin to lose importance, at least at the individual level, and to this day it continues to influence Belgian society. For example, even the 1999–2003 \"Rainbow Coalition\" of Guy Verhofstadt was often rendered with the terms of pillarisation. Political currents, which rose in late 20th century (Vlaams Blok, now Vlaams Belang, Groen!, N-VA ), did not attempt to build pillars.\n\nPillarisation was visible even in everyday social organisations such as musical ensembles, sport clubs, recreational facilities, etc. Weakened in the current situation, many major social organisations (trade unions, cooperatives, etc.) still strictly follow the lines of pillars though.\n\nThe following table is limited to the most important institutions and it shows the current division of everyone by the three ethnic groups.\nThe Austrian version of Verzuiling is the long-standing \"Proporz\" doctrine (a hypocorism for \"Proportionalität\", German for 'proportionality'). This was first only within the politics of the second Austrian republic, but later degenerated into a neo-corporatist system of patronage and nepotism pervading many aspects of Austrian life. The \"Proporz\" was created, developed and promoted by the two mainstream parties, the Catholic Austrian People's Party (ÖVP) and the Social-Democratic Socialist Party of Austria (since 1991 Social Democratic Party of Austria, both names with the acronym of SPÖ).\n\nThis \"de facto\" two-party system collapsed with the elections of 1999, which resulted in the joining of the national-conservative Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ), whose political marginalisation and that of its predecessor, the Federation of Independents (VdU), was the main reason for the establishment of the \"Proporz\" policy, because of their pro-German and individualist views.\n\nThe Proporz system arose out of the need for balanced, consensual governance in the early years of Austria's second republic. At that time, the country was consumed in an effort to rebuild the country after the devastation of World War II. Thus, the doctrine of Proporz is intimately linked to the idea of the grand coalition, in which the major political parties, in the case of post-war Austria the SPÖ and the ÖVP, share in the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2027250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2027250", "title": "Pixley ka Isaka Seme", "text": "Pixley ka Isaka Seme\n\nPixley ka Isaka Seme (c. 1881 – June 1951) was one of the first black lawyers in South Africa (Alfred Mangena was the first black attorney, Duma Nokwe the first black advocate), and a founder and President of the African National Congress.\n\nSeme was born the fourth son of Sinono Kuwana Seme in the area that would come to be known as Daggakraal, in what was then called the Colony of Natal, at the Inanda mission station of the American Zulu Mission of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. He graduated from Mount Hermon School, MA, in 1902 (now the Northfield Mount Hermon School). He attended Adams College which was part of the mission.\n\nHis mother was a sister of John Langalibalele Dube, and descended from a local chief. At 17 years of age Seme left to study in the U.S., first at the Mount Hermon School and then Columbia University. In 1906, his senior year at University, he was awarded the Curtis Medal, Columbia's highest oratorical honor. He subsequently decided to become an attorney. In October 1906 he was admitted to Oxford University to read for the degree of Bachelor of Civil Law; while at Oxford he was a member of Jesus College. He was admitted to the Middle Temple on 12 February 1907 and was Called to the Bar on 8 June 1910.\n\nSeme returned to South Africa in 1910, and began to practice as a lawyer in Johannesburg.\n\nIn 1911, Seme established the South African Native Farmers Association in order to encourage black farm workers to buy land in the Daggakraal area, and thus attain personal independence. Consequently, this led the white government to enact the Natives Land Act of 1913, barring black people from owning land in South Africa.\n\nIn response to the formation of the Union of South Africa, Seme worked with several other young African leaders recently returned from university studies in England, Richard Msimang, George Montsioa and Alfred Mangena, and with established leaders of the South African Native Convention in Johannesburg to promote the formation of a national organization that would unify various African groups from the separate colonies. In January 1912, these efforts bore fruit with the founding meeting of the South African Native National Congress, later renamed the African National Congress.\n\nSeme was also the lawyer of Queen Regent Labotsibeni of Swaziland, through whom the first ANC newspaper \"Abantu-Batho\" was financed. Later, in 1922, Seme accompanied King Sobhuza II as part of a delegation to London to meet British authorities and the King regarding the land proclamation in Swaziland.\n\nSeme's nationalist organizing among Africans paralleled the contemporaneous efforts of Mohandas Gandhi with South African Indians.\n\nSeme was very close to the Zulu and Swazi royal families. This is primarily symbolized by his marriage to Phikisele Harriet Dinizulu, the daughter of Zulu king Dinuzulu, and to Lozinja, daughter of Swazi King Mbandzeni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4517228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4517228", "title": "Progress Publishers", "text": "Progress Publishers\n\nProgress Publishers was a Moscow-based Soviet publisher founded in 1931.\n\nIt was noted for its English-language editions of books on Marxism–Leninism.\n\nProgress Publishers were particularly also known for their \"Short History of USSR\" and ABC series (\"ABC of Party\", \"ABC of Socialism\", \"ABC of Dialectical Materialism\", etc.). They also published many scientific books, books on arts, political books, classic books, children's literature, novels and short fiction, books in source languages for people studying foreign languages, guidebooks and photographic albums. They also published, in 1979, \"Marx and Engels on the United States\", a compilation drawn from letters, articles, and various other works.\n\nOne of the common features of all Progress books was their \"request to reader\" to send an opinion and suggestions on the book. It reads:\n\n"}
{"id": "32858242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32858242", "title": "Progressive Conservative Party of Newfoundland and Labrador leadership elections", "text": "Progressive Conservative Party of Newfoundland and Labrador leadership elections\n\nThis page lists the results of leadership elections held by the Progressive Conservative Party of Newfoundland and Labrador. After the defeat of the party's first leader in the 1949 general election and until 1966 the party leadership was officially vacant and the House leader served as de facto party leader.\n\n\nMews was defeated in the 1949 general election and resigned sometime afterward. John Gilbert Higgins was elected House leader and became the first post-Confederation Leader of the Opposition. Higgins retired at the 1951 general election, and Peter Cashin was elected House leader afterwards. Cashin resigned on January 26, 1953, and Malcolm Hollett was elected to succeed him. Hollett was defeated in the 1959 general election and James J. Greene was elected as his replacement. Greene resigned on January 14, 1966, and Noel Murphy was chosen acting leader.\n\n(Note: the vote totals were not released)\n\nMurphy was defeated in the 1966 general election and Gerry Ottenheimer was elected House leader.\n\n\nOttenheimer resigned on November 11, 1969. Party President William Marshall was made interim leader and Anthony Joseph Murphy was chosen House leader.\n\n\nFirst Ballot:\n\nSecond Ballot (Maynard, Hickey, Trask, Prowse and Wyatt eliminated and Morgan withdrew):\n\nThird Ballot (Carter eliminated.):\n\nFirst Ballot:\n\nSecond Ballot (Barrett eliminated):\n\nThird Ballot (Hearn eliminated, Windsor withdrew):\n\n\n\nVerge was defeated in the 1996 general election and Sullivan was appointed interim leader.\n\n\n\nWilliams resigned as premier and party leader on December 3, 2010. Kathy Dunderdale was chosen interim leader and premier.\n\n\n\n(Held September 13, 2014) \n\nFor the first time in the party's history, the voting was conducted through a one-member, one-vote points system, which divided the province into forty districts worth a hundred points each. The points were allocated based on each candidates share of the popular vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16459239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16459239", "title": "Railway nationalisation in Argentina", "text": "Railway nationalisation in Argentina\n\nIn 1948, during President Juan Perón's first term of office, the seven British-owned and three French-owned railway companies then operating in Argentina, were purchased by the state. These companies, together with those that were already state-owned, where grouped, according to their track gauge and locality, into a total of six state-owned companies which later became divisions of the state-owned holding company Ferrocarriles Argentinos.\n\nIn the latter half of the 19th century British and French-owned railway companies had played an important role in the economic development of Argentina. Between 1856 and 1914 the nation's railway network grew to become the largest in Latin America. The foreign investment provided by these companies had helped to transform Argentina from a relatively underdeveloped, rural country, with many isolated communities, into one which was becoming an increasingly prosperous agricultural producer and exporter.\n\nThe foreign-owned railway companies had developed under the protection of the Argentine's strong property rights of the time.\n\nThe rail networks of the various companies generally radiated inland from the major ports of Buenos Aires and Rosario and were primarily designed to speed the export of agricultural products from the provinces to European markets. The lack of interlinking between the many radial lines meant that the integration of the country’s interior was probably slower than it would have been had domestic needs been a priority.\n\nDuring World War II it had not been possible to import railway equipment or materials which meant that there was an urgent need for track, locomotive and rolling stock renewal by the time nationalisation took place in 1948. Also railways were beginning to face stiff competition from road transport as improvements in the national road network were made.\n\nBy the time the railways were nationalised in 1948, during President Perón's first term in office, the growth in economic nationalism in the country had reached a point where, for many Argentines in search of self-determination, the foreign-owned railways had become symbols of the control of the country's economy by foreign powers.\n\nBetween 1936 and 1939 the once British-owned metre gauge Córdoba Central, Transandine and Central Chubut had already been nationalised. As from 1 March 1948 the remaining British-owned railway companies in Argentina also became the property of the government. These were the four broad gauge companies: BA Great Southern, Central Argentine, BA & Pacific and the BA Western; the standard gauge companies Entre Ríos and Argentine North Eastern; and the Buenos Aires Midland Railway the only metre gauge company.\n\nThe official transfer of ownership, on March 1, of some 24,458 km of British-owned railways (57% of the total railway network) to the Argentine government took place amidst widespread celebrations including a mass demonstration in its support on Buenos Aires' Plaza Británica, in front of the Retiro railway terminus.\n\nBritish shareholders were compensated with the rescision of their US$ 500 million debt to the Central Bank of Argentina and US$100 million, cash. The cash figure proved controversial, as it had not previously been reported during the negotiations. Pressed on the issue, President Perón explained that the premium was for \"sentimental reasons.\"\n\nLater in 1948 the three French-owned railway companies were also nationalised: the broad gauge Rosario & Puerto Belgrano and the metre gauge Compañía General de Buenos Aires and Provincial de Santa Fe.\n\nAfter the nationalisation all the Argentine network was grouped into six railway divisions named after distinguished Argentine presidents and national heroes (such as José de San Martín, Manuel Belgrano, Domingo Sarmiento, Justo José de Urquiza, Bartolomé Mitre and Julio A. Roca) according to their track gauge and locality. Apart from former British and French companies, Argentine ones also became part of \"Ferrocarriles Argentinos\", the state-owned company specifically created after the nationalisation to manage the entire railway network.\n\nThe list of companies taken over by each division was as follows:\n\nNotes:\n\nAfter the nationalisation, maps of the six railway divisions managed by state-owned Ferrocarriles Argentinos were as follows:\n\nArgentines saw railway nationalisation as a major step towards the economic independence of their country which had for so long been under the influence of foreign capital. Nationalisation of the railways, the central bank, the telephone system and the docks were part of Perón's economic recovery scheme for postwar Argentina and had formed part of the first Five-Year Plan, announced in October 1946. Later in mass rallies he would refer to railway nationalisation as a victory over foreign imperialism. At the time there was little local opposition, although later it became apparent that, far from stimulating the national economy, nationalisation of the railways together with other foreign companies, contributed to the economic crises that Argentina suffered from the 1950s onwards by adding substantially to national budget deficits (which the Central Bank was forced to finance largely by \"printing money\", leading to inflation). Argentine Railways, in particular, became the most deficit ridden State enterprise among the numerous ones nationalized by Perón, generating a million US dollars in losses daily by the 1960s, and two million by the 1980s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3274379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3274379", "title": "Recruitment tool", "text": "Recruitment tool\n\nA recruitment tool is an advertising method that aids in creating interest in and getting people for a typically political organization. Historically recruitment tools have often taken the form of posters or films, though in modern times recruitment tools have taken the form of advergame video games. Other tools include things like sponsorships of sporting events, or ads on TV.\n\nThe following is a list of examples of propaganda film recruitment tools and the political organizations which they intend to recruit for.\n\nThe following is a list of examples of video game recruitment tools and the political organization which they intent to recruit for.\n\n"}
{"id": "29685705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29685705", "title": "Rita Hauser", "text": "Rita Hauser\n\nRita Eleanor Hauser (born July 12, 1934 in New York) is an international lawyer known for persuading Yasser Arafat and the Palestine Liberation Organization to renounce violence in 1988. She also served as United States Ambassador to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights from 1969 to 1972. George W. Bush appointed her to the President's Intelligence Advisory Board in 2001, serving through 2004, and she was appointed again by Barack Obama in 2009.\n\nBorn of Jewish parents, Hauser was the elder of two daughters of Nathan and Frieda (Litt) Abrams, Rita Eleanor (Abrams).\n\nIn 1954 she received a B.A. from Hunter College in New York, after which she was awarded a Fulbright scholarship for graduate work in France, which eventually resulted in receiving a doctorate in political economy from the University of Strasbourg. She attended Harvard Law School for a while, then received a License en droit from the University of Paris (a rarity for an American) in 1958, then later received an LL.B. in 1959 from the New York University School of Law.\n\nHauser served as cochair of \"New Yorkers for Nixon\" during Richard Nixon’s successful 1968 presidential campaign. She then became the United States representative to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights (1969–1972). She also served as a member of the United States delegation to the twenty-fourth UN General Assembly.\n\nDuring her time at the UN that she met many key players in Middle East politics and became committed to her pursuit of conflict resolution in the Middle East, human rights and humanitarian law. During her term at the UN, she helped Jewish immigrants leave Russia and visited Palestinian refugee camps throughout the Middle East.\n\nDuring this period she also met Golda Meir who soon became her mentor and role model. Meir inspired Hauser’s involvement in Middle East politics and encouraged her, a secular Jew, to learn more about Jewish history and her own Jewishness.\n\nFor more than twenty years, Hauser was a Senior Partner at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan in New York.\n\nHauser chairs the International Peace Institute and is Chair of the Advisory Board of the International Crisis Group, was elected in 2007 to the Board of the Global Humanitarian Forum in Geneva, Switzerland, chairs the American Ditchley Foundation, has served as a director of the RAND Corporation and the International Institute for Strategic Studies, and is currently a Director of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts after having been a Director of the New York Philharmonic Society for more than 20 years. She also serves as an Advisory Board member for the Partnership for a Secure America.\n\nShe and her husband established the Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations at Harvard Kennedy School of Government, and she is Co-Chair of the Dean’s Advisory Board at Harvard Law School, and the Hausers also were the principal benefactors of the Hauser Global Law School Program at New York University School of Law.\n"}
{"id": "2183064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2183064", "title": "Salary Grab Act", "text": "Salary Grab Act\n\nThe Salary Grab Act was passed by the United States Congress on March 3, 1873. The effect of the Act was, the day before the inauguration of President Ulysses S. Grant for a second term, to double the salary of the President (to $50,000) and the salaries of Supreme Court Justices. Hidden in the salary increases was also a 50 percent increase for members of Congress, retroactive to the beginning of their just-ending term. Public outcry led Congress to rescind the congressional salary increase. As a protest against the Act, Ohio ratified what would become the Twenty-seventh Amendment.\n"}
{"id": "304173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304173", "title": "Small office/home office", "text": "Small office/home office\n\nSmall office/home office (or single office/home office; SOHO) refers to the category of business or cottage industry that involves from 1 to 10 workers. \nIn New Zealand, the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) defines a small office as 6 to 19 employees and a micro office as 1-5.\n\nBefore the 19th century, and the spread of the industrial revolution around the globe, nearly all offices were small offices and/or home offices, with only a few exceptions. Most businesses were small, and the paperwork that accompanied them was limited. The industrial revolution aggregated workers in factories, to mass-produce goods. In most circumstances, the white collar counterpart—office work—was aggregated as well in large buildings, usually in cities or densely populated suburban areas.\n\nBeginning in the mid-1980s, the advent of the personal computer and fax machine, plus breakthroughs in telecommunications, created opportunities for office workers to decentralize. Decentralization was also perceived as benefiting employers in terms of lower overheads and potentially greater productivity.\n\nMany consultants and the members of such professions as lawyers, real estate agents, and surveyors in small and medium-size towns operate from home offices.\n\nSeveral ranges of products, such as the armoire desk and all-in-one printer, are designed specifically for the SOHO market. A number of books and magazines have been published and marketed specifically at this type of office. These range from general advice texts to specific guidebooks on such challenges as setting up a small PBX for the office telephones.\n\nTechnology has also created a demand for larger businesses to employ individuals who work from home. Sometimes these people remain as independent businesspersons, and sometimes they become employees of a larger company.\n\nThe small office home office has undergone a transformation since its advent as the internet has enabled anyone working from a home office to compete globally. Technology has made this possible through email, the World-Wide Web, e-commerce, videoconferencing, remote desktop software, webinar systems, and telephone connections by VOIP. Due to the increase in small and home offices, web services and standard business software have been created to directly assist smaller businesses in standard business practice \n\nIn the United States a home office can be claimed as a tax deduction only if office space and supplies are not provided by a corporate office.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11959562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11959562", "title": "Soviet Census (1937)", "text": "Soviet Census (1937)\n\nThe Soviet Census held on January 6, 1937 was the most controversial of the censuses taken within the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The census results were not published because the census showed much lower population figures than anticipated, although it still showed a population growth from the last census in 1926, from 147 million to 162 million people in 1937.\n\nAfter the First All-Union Census of the Soviet Union of 1926, the next census was planned to be held in 1933. On 15 March 1932 the formal commission on census organization, chaired by Valerian Osinsky was created by the Statistical Commission (Tsentral'noye Upravleniye Narodno-Khozyaystvennogo Uchyota, TsUNKhU) of Gosplan. On 22 April 1932 Sovnarkom adopted the decision \"On Conducting the all-Union Census in December 1933\". On 15 April 1933 Sovnarkom moved the date for the census to the beginning of 1935. On 23 June 1934 Sovnarkom further delayed the census to January 1936. On 15 June 1935 the census date was moved to December 1936. Finally the census was conducted on 6 January 1937.\n\nThe multiple delays were most probably explained by the reluctance to show the catastrophic demographic results of collectivization and the famine of 1932–1934, including the Holodomor. The Soviet leadership had fanned great expectations of population growth.\n\nOn 26 January 1934 Joseph Stalin reported to the 17th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party (b) as one of the main achievements \"Growth of population from 160.5 millions in the end of 1930 to the 168 millions in the end of 1933\".\nOn 1 December 1935 Joseph Stalin made a speech, on the \"Meeting of Kolkhozniks with the Soviet and Party leaders\":\n\nCombining his reports, one could have expected to have a population of about 180 million in 1937.\n\nOfficial statistics based on the registered birth and death rates implied that the 1937 census should show a population of 170–172 million. On 21 September 1935 Sovnarkom adopted a decision \"On the organization of registration of natural population changes\" () most probably authored by Stalin:\nIn fact, as discussed by A. G. Volkov, the idea that a significant number of people received multiple death certificates for the same person is absurd. On the other hand, not registering deaths, especially those who died during the 1930s famines and prison inmates, was common. For example, during the Holodomor, starving peasants tried (despite the official ban) to escape to the cities where they could earn or beg for food. Many of them died in the streets. In 1933, the street-cleaning service of Kiev picked up 9472 dead bodies. Only 3991 of them were officially registered while 5481 were disposed of without formal registration according to the instructions of the prosecutor's office.\n\nThe official commission for the preparation of the census was formed on 16 September 1935. It included:\nLater the commission was joined by\nAll the documents related to the census were prepared by TsUNKhU and edited personally by Joseph Stalin. A. G. Volkov speculates that never in modern history was such a routine technical matter as a census so micromanaged by such high officials.\n\nA comparison between the two variants is shown in the table below:\n\nWhile his Soviet contemporaries praised Stalin's clarity and brevity in the design of these forms, modern scholars have observed a significant dumbing-down of the original proposals. A lot of information, e.g., about the social structures and income, and migration, could not be deduced from the new forms. Some questions (like the social category) were extremely vague and allowed different interpretations. Volkov argues that it was done deliberately. Stalin removed the double accounting (of those present at the time of census and of those permanently living at an address), thus significantly reducing the accuracy of the calculations. It was coupled with a very maladroit time for the census: the night from 5 to 6 January – that is, the eve of Russian Orthodox Christmas, when people are extremely mobile.\n\nThe main new question introduced by Stalin was the question about religion. According to Volkov, Stalin expected the great majority of people to self-identify as atheists.\n\nThe census was held on 6 January 1937. In addition to the general census in the cities, towns and villages, a special census was held by the NKVD in the Gulag camps and among the border guards; by the Red Army, which took a census of military personnel; and the railroad, which took a census of passengers. When the data was first processed, it soon became obvious that the final enumeration would be little more than 162 million people. The worst disagreement between the expected and the obtained data were in Kazakhstan, Ukraine, North Caucasus and the Volga region, the areas that were the strongest hit by the Soviet famine of 1932–1934. Also, despite the expected number of living prisoners of the Gulag to be 4 million, only 2.6 million were accounted for.\n\nOn 11 January the chief of TsUNKhU Kraval sent telegrams requesting a total recount of a whole settlement if any doubt arose that somebody might be missing there. Still, despite the total recount in 25,000 settlements, only 4,887 previously unenumerated persons were found. The preliminary result of the census, reported to Stalin in the middle of March 1937, was 162,039,470 people, much lower than the \"criminally decreased\" registered numbers of 170–172 million or Stalin's expectation of 180 million people.\n\nAnother serious blow was a very high percentage of people who stated that they were religious. 55.3 million, or 56.7%, of those who provided answers stated that they were religious (the question was asked only of people older than 16 years old), 42.2 million stated that they were atheists, and around 1 million refused to give an answer. Historian V. B. Zhiromskaya stated that people expected to be persecuted if they declared themselves as belonging to a religion, but considered the answer to be important: \"If many people would say that they are religious, the authorities would have to open the churches\", was a common attitude. The Soviet authorities were so upset by the results of the census that they did not include a question on religion in any future censuses.\n\nIn March 1937 the four main statistical professionals working on the Census in TsUNKhU – the chief of the \"Sector for Population\", Mikhail Kurman; chief of the \"Census Bureau\", Olimpiy Kvitkin; his deputy, Lazar Brand; and the chief of the \"Sector for transportation and communication\", Ivan Oblomov, were arrested and imprisoned. Soon they were joined by the Chief of TsUNKhU, Ivan Kraval, and the chiefs of most of the regional statistical centers, and executions followed. Many statisticians, newly appointed in place of those arrested, were soon arrested themselves. There is evidence that many managers appointed to lead the statistical organization tried to avoid starting their new jobs in desperate attempts to escape persecution.\n\nOn 25 September 1937 there was a special Sovnarkom decision proclaiming the census invalid and setting a new one for January 1939. A \"Pravda\" editorial stated that the \"enemies of the people gave the census counters invalid instructions that led to the gross under-counting of the population, but the brave NKVD under the leadership of Nikolai Yezhov destroyed the snake's nest in the statistical bodies\".\n\nStalin had to agree with the lower numbers of population growth. In his report to the 18th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party (bolsheviks) he said:\nThe new Soviet Census (1939) showed a population figure of 170.6 million people, manipulated so as to match exactly the numbers stated by Stalin in his report to the 18th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party. No other censuses were conducted until 1959.\n\nToday there is a consensus that the results of the 1939 census were adjusted (0.5 to 1.5 million persons were added to the reported population). Some historians consider the 1937 census the only more or less reliable source of demographic data for the period 1926–1959. However, demographers do not consider it as such. The data became influential for evaluating the number of victims of the Great Purge, World War I, and the 1930s famines, including the Holodomor.\n"}
{"id": "4318692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4318692", "title": "Station chief", "text": "Station chief\n\nA station chief is a government official who is the head of a team, post or function usually in a foreign country. Historically it commonly referred to the head of a defensible structure such as an ambassador's residence or colonial outpost. In Germany a (station leader) was the government's chief representative in a colonial possession such as the South Sea Islands. It may also be used to refer to the manager of remote scientific stations such as those in the Antarctic and Jarvis Island, an uninhabited minor U.S. Pacific island possession.\n\nThe Station Chief, also called Chief of Station, is the top U.S. Central Intelligence Agency official stationed in a foreign country who manages all CIA operations in that country, equivalent to a KGB Rezident. The station chief is often a senior U.S. intelligence officer who represents the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) in his or her respective foreign government, whose name may (\"declared status\") or may not (\"undeclared status\") be officially revealed to the host nation and other intelligence agencies. Former officers are not usually allowed to include their position as a station chief in their résumé even after their covers have been lifted.\n\nOther CIA offices in foreign countries, usually performing logistics and other support functions and subordinate to the Station, are known as Bases and are headed by Chiefs of Base.\n\n"}
{"id": "32269988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32269988", "title": "Tennessee Equality Project", "text": "Tennessee Equality Project\n\nThe Tennessee Equality Project is an LGBT organization in the United States state of Tennessee.\n\nThe Tennessee Equality Project was founded on June 15, 2004, in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nThe organization has lobbied against a 2006 referendum to amend the state constitution to ban same-sex marriage, the dismissal of a lesbian soccer coach by Belmont University in 2010, the \" Don't Say Gay\" bill sponsored in 2011 by Sen. Stacey Campfield and Rep. Bill Dunn, and other public issues. It endorsed Nashville mayor Karl Dean for re-election in 2011.\n\nIn December 2015, TEP attempted to open an LGBT center in Maryville, the county seat of Blount County in partnership with local stakeholders, but this effort was ultimately unsuccessful.\n\nThe Project has received funds from the Human Rights Campaign and has partnered with the California-based Courage Campaign to develop political advertising based on the life story of an LGBT Tennessee resident. The organization is a member of the Equality Federation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6325757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6325757", "title": "The Hotline", "text": "The Hotline\n\nThe Hotline is a daily political briefing published, alongside \"National Journal\", by Atlantic Media from its headquarters at The Watergate complex in Washington, D.C.. It is currently edited by Kyle Trygstad. \"The Hotline\" was founded by Doug Bailey and Roger Craver in 1987, and published independently until its acquisition in 1996 by National Journal Group, now a subsidiary of Atlantic Media. \n\n\"The Hotline\"'s primary audience includes Congressional staffers, political operatives and pundits. It is a comprehensive, non-partisan digest of that day's political events relating to upcoming statewide and national elections. The Hotline is published daily, condensing newspaper, magazine and digital political coverage from the previous 24 hours.\n\n\"The Hotline\" comes out with a daily compendium of the morning's political headlines with \"Wake-Up Call\" and puts together a comprehensive digest of election and campaign news across the country with \"Latest Edition.\" \"The Hotline\" reporters contribute to \"National Journal\"'s overall political coverage. \n\n\"I've always thought of \"Hotline\" fondly,\" reflected former President Bill Clinton in a 25th-anniversary video. \"The day before the first cattle-call of the 1992 campaign, you all called me 'a Little Rock in a big pile.' So you can see why I'm both surprised and delighted that you've lasted 25 years. I'm a little surprised I've lasted 25 years. And I sincerely hope that you and I last another 25 more.\" \n\nNotable alumni include: Josh Kraushaar, Reid Wilson, Amy Walter, Chuck Todd, Stephen F. Hayes, Jonathan Martin, Mike Memoli, Shira T. Center, Marc Ambinder, Craig Crawford, Norah O'Donnell, Ken Rudin, John Mercurio and Adam Wollner.\n\n"}
{"id": "1219896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219896", "title": "Union of Revolutionary Workers of Austria (Marxist–Leninist)", "text": "Union of Revolutionary Workers of Austria (Marxist–Leninist)\n\nThe Union of Revolutionary Workers of Austria (Marxist–Leninist) () was a communist group in Austria.\n\nIt was founded on June 22, 1968, created through a split of the MLPÖ. The principal leader of the VRAÖ was Alfred Jocha. It published the monthly magazine \"Der Kommunist\" 1967-1970, \"Für die Volksmacht\" (For People's Power) from 1970 to 1997 and again from 1999, and \"Widerspruch\" 1997-1999.\n"}
{"id": "3538892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3538892", "title": "Usual channels", "text": "Usual channels\n\n\"Usual channels\" is a term used in British politics to describe the relationship between the whips of the Government and the Opposition. Essentially, this is to obtain co-operation between the two parties, in order to ensure as much business as possible can be dealt with in each parliamentary session.\n\nNegotiations in the \"usual channels\" take place daily, with key roles being played by civil servants such as the private secretary to the Chief Whip. They determine how the time in each House of Parliament is spent and, prior to the 2010 general election, they decided the composition and the chair of select committees.\n\nIn 2002, the Hansard Society published a report entitled \"Opening Up The Usual Channels\", which concluded that the Commons would benefit from greater transparency if the system were to be replaced by a formal \"business committee\" as used in other legislatures. In 2006, The Constitution Unit at UCL made similar recommendations.\n\nIn 2009, following the Parliamentary expenses scandal, a temporary Reform of the House of Commons select committee, the Wright Committee, was established to consider issues of House of Commons reform. The recommendations in their report included the establishment of a backbench business committee and the election of select committee chairs, which would fundamentally change the way the usual channels work.\n\nFollowing the general election in May 2010, a Backbench Business Committee was established in June, which is responsible for determining the business of the House of Commons for one day each week. Also, for the first time, chairs of select committees were elected by secret ballot by the whole House, while select committee members were elected internally within each party group.\n\n"}
{"id": "1017729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1017729", "title": "Vanguard Nationalist and Socialist Party", "text": "Vanguard Nationalist and Socialist Party\n\nThe Vanguard Nationalist and Socialist Party was a minor political party in the Bahamas in the 1970s and 1980s. \n\nThe party was founded in 1971 by a group belonging to the youth organization of Progressive Liberal Party who were inspired by the Black Panther Party in the United States. In the 1977 elections it put up five candidates, but received only 55 votes and failed to win a seat. John T. McCartney became party president in 1979, and whilst it improved its performance in the 1982 elections, with 18 candidates receiving 181 votes, it still failed to win a seat. The last election contested by the party was the a by-election in St. Barnabas in 1987, which was not contested by the official opposition Free National Movement. The party's candidate was its then-leader, Lionel Carey. Carey came bottom in the poll, below the Workers' Party.\n\nThe party was never taken seriously by most Bahamian voters, a fact reflected in their abysmal vote totals. Every single candidate that ever ran on behalf of the party lost their deposit (their 1982 manifesto called for its elimination). Members addressed each other as 'comrade', which was also lampooned.\n"}
{"id": "44918902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44918902", "title": "Women's rights in 2014", "text": "Women's rights in 2014\n\n2014 was described as a watershed year for women's rights, by newspapers such as \"The Guardian\". It was described as a year in which women's voices acquired greater legitimacy and authority. \"Time\" magazine said 2014 \"may have been the best year for women since the dawn of time\". However, \"The Huffington Post\" called it \"a bad year for women, but a good year for feminism\". San Francisco writer Rebecca Solnit argued that it was \"a year of feminist insurrection against male violence\" and a \"lurch forward\" in the history of feminism, and \"The Guardian\" said the \"globalisation of protest\" at violence against women was \"groundbreaking\", and that social media had enabled a \"new version of feminist solidarity\".\n\nDenise Balkissoon, writing in \"The Globe and Mail\", disagreed with and criticized the view that 2014 marked a \"watershed\" moment and that \"some collective 'we' has finally had enough\", citing her ongoing concerns regarding a \"broken system\" with respect to violence against women. United Nations' Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, Rashida Manjoo, said that violence against women \"is acknowledged as a pervasive and widespread human rights violation\" and that as of 2014, \"no single country can claim that there is progressive elimination occurring\".\n\nMarlene Leung of CTV News described 2014 as \"the year women joined forces online and the Internet listened\". The Twitter campaign #YesAllWomen, offering examples of sexism and harassment, attracted over one million tweets within four days in May. The hashtag was created after the Isla Vista killings in California, a killing spree in which the killer's misogyny was cited as a factor.\n\nThe street harassment of women was highlighted when actor Shoshana Roberts was hired by Hollaback! to walk through the streets of New York City. Their two-minute video, \"10 Hours of Walking in NYC as a Woman\", filmed over a period of ten hours, showed 108 instances described as harassment, including comments from men regarding Roberts' appearance. She received online threats after the video aired. In June, the Egyptian government criminalized sexual harassment, though campaigners questioned whether the law would be enforced.\n\nResponding to the heightened awareness of rape in India after the 2012 Delhi gang rape and the 2014 Badaun gang rape allegations, Prime Minister Narendra Modi advised parents, during his Independence Day speech in August, not only to ask where their daughters are going, but to check on their sons, because \"a rapist is also somebody's son\". Another Indian politician, Mulayam Singh Yadav, opposing the introduction of the death penalty for rape, said in April \"boys will be boys ... they commit mistakes\", gaining considerable notoriety, while in June politician and former actor Tapas Paul said he would send his \"boys\" to rape women from an opposing party.\n\nKrishna Majumdar of the National Federation of Indian Women wrote in July that the Delhi and Badaun attacks were \"nothing less than landmarks for women in India – landmarks in their consciousness of what men do, and can do, to them\", and that \"the machismo of the male, sexual assault or the fear of it, will not let women be truly free\". The comic book \"Priya's Shakti\" (December 2014) featured a female Indian rape survivor as its hero; Priya is banished when her family learns about the rape, but with the help of the Hindu goddess Parvati, she rides back on a tiger and is victorious.\n\nFirst Lady Michelle Obama delivered the weekly presidential address in May to highlight the Chibok schoolgirls kidnapping in Nigeria, in which around 270 schoolgirls were kidnapped by an Islamist group. She argued that it was not an isolated incident: \"It's a story we see every day as girls around the world risk their lives to pursue their ambitions.\"\n\nWomen's allegations of assault or harassment at the hands of prominent men – including Bill Cosby in the United States and Jian Ghomeshi in Canada – added to the debate about the abuse of women by men in power, and the difficulty of reporting it and being believed. Scotland Yard's Operation Yewtree in the UK, an investigation triggered by the Jimmy Savile sexual abuse scandal, led to convictions for the sexual assault of women or girls against Max Clifford, Rolf Harris and Dave Lee Travis, all well-known men in the media and entertainment industry.\n\nAmerican football player Ray Rice was suspended by the NFL (later reversed) after video surfaced of him punching his female partner, and there were protests in the UK against soccer player Ched Evans being hired by another club after serving a jail sentence for rape. Australia, the UK and Singapore barred US-based dating coach Julien Blanc, after complaints that his aggressive techniques amounted to abuse of women.\n\nIn college campuses in the US, the idea of affirmative consent to sex was promoted, referred to as \"yes means yes\". In January, President Barack Obama launched the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault, and in September, California Governor Jerry Brown signed SB 967, legislation requiring colleges to adopt affirmative-consent policies. The new law defined consent to sex as an \"affirmative, conscious, and voluntary agreement to engage in sexual activity\"; lack of protest and silence would not constitute consent. Affirmative consent was criticized by Cathy Young who said government involvement in sexual activity was a \"terrible idea\" and that she did not believe this would protect against sexual assault.\n\nIn September at Columbia University in New York, art student Emma Sulkowicz began carrying a mattress with her on campus, in what she called \"\", in protest to the university's alleged mishandling of a rape complaint she had filed, where the student she accused was found \"not responsible\". The following month students at several universities in the US and Europe joined her protest against campus sexual assault, carrying mattresses on their campuses.\n\nOnline threats of violence against women were highlighted during Gamergate, a controversy about the treatment of women in video gaming. American video-game developers Zoë Quinn and Brianna Wu were forced to leave their homes after threats, as was media critic Anita Sarkeesian, who researches sexism in video games; Sarkeesian cancelled a lecture at Utah State University because, for legal reasons, it could not screen attendees for concealed weapons despite the threat of a school shooting if she spoke there.\n\nOn Facebook, women in Iran posted images of themselves without veils in a movement known as My Stealthy Freedom. In Saudi Arabia in December, two women involved in the #womentodrive movement were arrested.\n\nIn August, France passed what a \"New York Times\" editorial described as the most comprehensive law on gender equality in that country to date, \"Loi pour l'égalité réelle entre les femmes et les hommes\". The law allows for abortion on demand in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy. Women previously had to be \"in distress\" to obtain an abortion. Provisions were changed to encourage more men to take paternal leave and requiring workplaces to improve gender equality or face fines. There are also several provisions to strengthen the fight against domestic abuse. Beauty pageants were forbidden for girls under 13 years of age, and the media was forbidden from portraying women in a sexist or demeaning way. The law also mandated gender quotas for the boards of sports organizations and public companies.\n\nIn September, Spain's Prime Minister, Mariano Rajoy, announced that the government would abandon a proposed law to strengthen the abortion law in Spain which would have banned abortions except in cases of rape or to protect the health of the mother. The proposal, which was introduced by the People Party's cabinet in December 2013, had been met with large protests through 2014.\n\nIn December 2014, Canada changed their prostitution laws to follow the Swedish model, which focuses prosecution on those who purchase sexual services. The purchasing and advertisement of sexual services became illegal (except for the advertisement by individual sex workers), while selling sex remained legal. The move was supported by a coalition of women's rights groups, the Women's Coalition for the Abolition of Prostitution, but was criticized by Human Rights Watch and the Feminist Coalition, who argued that it would force sex workers into isolated environments. A similar proposal was approved by the French National Assembly in 2013, but the Senate in 2014 did not pass the bill. Rosen Hitcher, a former prostitute and abolition advocate, walked 800 km (500 m) from Saintes, in southwestern France, to Paris to protest the Senate's decision. She was supported by Pascale Boistard, minister for women's rights, and the mayors of several cities, including Anne Hidalgo, the mayor of Paris.\n\nThe World Economic Forum's 2014 Global Gender Gap Report, measuring the allocation of resources between women and men in health, education, economy and politics, ranked Iceland, Finland, Norway, Sweden and Denmark highest on their Global Gender Gap Index, while Yemen, Pakistan, Chad, Syria and Mali were among those ranked the lowest. Globally, the health and survival gap was 96% and the educational attainment gap was 94%, with some countries closing the gap entirely. However, the gap related to improvement for women in the workplace was found to be 60%, having closed by only 4% since 2006. Although it showed the most improvement, the political empowerment gap remained at just 21%.\n\nDuring a visit to the UK in April, the United Nations' Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, Rashida Manjoo, criticized the country's \"boys' club sexist culture\". She argued that sexism in the UK was more \"pervasive\" and \"in your face\" than other countries she had visited, which included Algeria, Italy, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Azerbaijan, India and Croatia. She cited issues such the sexist portrayal of women in public, including the female nudity on Page Three of the \"Sun\" newspaper, bullying of girls in schools, and harassment in public spaces. Laura Bates, the founder of the Everyday Sexism Project, commented on Manjoo's criticisms calling them \"a wake-up call to recognise the depth and severity of the problem. We still have gender inequality in the UK [yet] we are so quick to point the finger at other countries and suggest women [here] are equal.\"\n\nIn a July meeting with activists and journalists at the end of an investigatory visit, Manjoo heard complaints and criticized the Mexican government's record on gender inequality in public agencies, describing verbal harassment and sexual harassment as forms of violence against women. She said that violence against women \"is acknowledged as a pervasive and widespread human rights violation\" and that \"no single country can claim that there is progressive elimination occurring\". She said that two UN reports on the US in 2014 highlighted a disproportionate level of violence experienced by women from ethnic and racial minorities, mirroring findings in her own report of 2011 and similarly urging that the government do more to address the issue.\n\nIn June, UN special envoy Angelina Jolie and William Hague chaired the \"Global Summit to End Sexual Violence in Conflict\" in London, and the following month UNICEF and the UK government hosted the first \"Girl Summit\", aimed at ending female genital mutilation and child marriage. UN Women Goodwill Ambassador Emma Watson launched the HeForShe campaign in September at the United Nations in New York, inviting men to sign up as advocates for women's rights.\n\nThe BBC reported that the role of women within the UN was increasing. As of November 2014, there were 31 female permanent representatives, and six seats (Argentina, Jordan, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Nigeria and the United States) out of fifteen on the Security Council were held by women. Most of the senior positions remained with men, including the current and all previous secretaries-general.\n\nSeveral women moved into prominent positions traditionally held by men. In January Mary Barra became the first female CEO of General Motors, in February Janet Yellen the first woman to chair the US Federal Reserve Board of Governors, in July Adm. Michelle J. Howard of the United States Navy the first female four-star admiral, and in December Libby Lane was the first woman chosen as a Church of England bishop.\n\nIn August, Iranian mathematician Maryam Mirzakhani won the Fields Medal for mathematics, the first woman to do so. Maj. Mariam al-Mansouri, the first female fighter pilot in the United Arab Emirates, led a mission in October against ISIS targets in Syria, though she became the target of sexist remarks in some American media. Malala Yousafzai, a 17-year-old Pakistani woman who was shot by the Taliban for her efforts to secure education for girls, shared the Nobel Peace Prize in December. Yousafzai is the youngest person ever to receive the award.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23204793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23204793", "title": "¡30-30!", "text": "¡30-30!\n\n\"¡30-30!\" () was a Mexican artists' group of revolutionary anti-academic painters, that took its name from the .30-30 Winchester rifle. The group existed from 1928 to 1930, and had around about 30 members. They published five manifestos and a journal in three issues.\n\n\n"}
