{"id": "36885885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36885885", "title": "Adab al-Tabib", "text": "Adab al-Tabib\n\nAdab al-Tabib ( \"Adab aț-Ṭabīb\", \"Morals of the physician\") is the common title of a historical Arabic book on medical ethics, written by Al-Ruhawi, a 9th-century physician. The title can be roughly translated \"Practical Ethics of the Physician\". As the name suggests, it focuses on adab, the Islamic concept of etiquette and personal ethics, as it is defined in a medical context. One of the earliest texts on Islamic medical ethics, it has been called the \"crowning achievement\" of early works concerning \"adab\" in medicine.\n\nAl-Ruhawi was born a Christian, probably of the Nestorian sect that had split from mainstream Christianity in 530. Although it is not entirely clear, he was most likely still a Christian when he wrote \"Adab al-Tabib\". Despite his beliefs, \"Adab al-Tabib\" is primarily an Islamic text, built upon Islamic beliefs and practices. Due to this strong Islamic influence, a modern scholar has disputed this interpretation, claiming that only a full Muslim could have produced such a text.\n\n\"Adab al-Tabib\" builds on the works of several earlier Muslim and middle-eastern Christian philosophers and medical authorities, like Al-Kindi and Hunayn ibn Ishaq. However, it draws from many other historical traditions as well, especially those of ancient Greece. The book incorporates themes and direct quotes from Greek philosophers such as Aristotle, Plato, and Hippocrates, among others. It also borrows particularly heavily from the writings of the prominent Roman physician Galen. Despite his thoroughness in citing his influences, Al-Ruhawi notably makes no mention or acknowledgement to any earlier texts that specifically deal with Islamic medical ethics, suggesting that this book may have been the earliest work on the subject. \n\nBecause contemporary and later Islamic works have been relatively neglected in analysis, it is difficult to ascertain Al-Ruhawi's impact on later thinkers in the field. Given Al-Ruhawi's extensive research and reliance on older traditions, and the degree to which Islamic medical ethics followed his ideas, it is likely that Al-Ruhawi's book was generally well-received and accepted.\n\n\"Adab al-Tabib\" is divided into twenty chapters, each dealing with a specific topic of medical ethics. They fall into three general categories: the conduct of the physician, the conduct of the patient, and the conduct of the public at large towards the medical profession and their patients. The text covers a physician's personal beliefs and practices, placing great importance on his faith in God and personal health and hygiene, as well as his manner with his colleagues, nurses, and patients. Al-Ruhawi emphasizes respect for the physician in patients and visitors, even allowing for a doctor to overrule a patient's wishes when it is necessary for their health to do so. He says that doctors should be placed high in the social hierarchy, with enough pay that they aren't forced into other work, although he also instructs doctors not to flaunt their wealth. Al-Ruhawi says that the fees charged for rich patients should be enough to cover the expenses of poor patients who cannot pay for themselves, as otherwise medical care for both the rich and the poor suffer.\n\nIn \"Adab al-Tabib\", Al-Ruhawi also discusses legislative practices and penalties for false and incompetent doctors. To weed out quacks, he advocates medical exams and licenses, the contents of which would be heavily based on the works of Galen. He encourages doctors to keep records of the patient's symptoms, treatments, and progress, so that it may be reviewed by peers should the patient die under his care. Although he admits that patient survival is not always possible and is ultimately up to God, Al-Ruhawi recommends severe penalties for doctors who allow patients to die through negligence, even up to execution.\n"}
{"id": "25279290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25279290", "title": "Aevum", "text": "Aevum\n\nIn Scholastic philosophy, the aevum (also called aeviternity) is the mode of existence experienced by angels and by the saints in heaven. In some ways, it is a state that logically lies between the eternity (timelessness) of God and the temporal experience of material beings. It is sometimes referred to as \"improper eternity\". The word \"aevum\" is Latin, originally signifying \"age\", \"aeon\", or \"everlasting time\"; the word \"aeviternity\" comes from the Medieval Latin neologism \"aeviternitas\".\nThe concept of the aevum dates back at least to Albertus Magnus's treatise \"De quattuor coaequaevis\". Its most familiar description is found in the \"Summa theologica\" of Thomas Aquinas. Aquinas identifies the aevum as the measure of the existence of beings that \"recede less from permanence of being, forasmuch as their being neither consists in change, nor is the subject of change; nevertheless they have change annexed to them either actually, or potentially\". As examples, he cites the heavenly bodies (which, in medieval science, were considered changeless in their nature, though variable in their position) and the angels, which \"have an unchangeable being as regards their nature with changeableness as regards choice\".\nFrank Sheed, in his book \"Theology and Sanity\", said that the aevum is also the measure of existence for the saints in heaven: \"Aeviternity is the proper sphere of every created spirit, and therefore of the human soul... At death, [the body's] distracting relation to matter's time ceases to affect the soul, so that it can experience its proper aeviternity.\"\n"}
{"id": "46399274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46399274", "title": "Anarchist schools of thought", "text": "Anarchist schools of thought\n\nAnarchism is generally defined as the political philosophy which holds the state to be undesirable, unnecessary and harmful, or alternatively as opposing authority and hierarchical organization in the conduct of human relations. Proponents of anarchism, known as \"anarchists\", advocate stateless societies based on non-hierarchical voluntary associations. However, anarchist schools of thought can differ fundamentally, supporting anything from extreme individualism to complete collectivism. Strains of anarchism have often been divided into the categories of social and individualist anarchism or similar dual classifications. Anarchism is often considered a radical left-wing ideology and much of anarchist economics and anarchist legal philosophy reflect anti-authoritarian interpretations of communism, collectivism, syndicalism, mutualism or participatory economics. At some point \"the collectivist, communist, and liberal and individualist strands of thought from which anarchists drew their inspiration began to assume an increasingly distinctive quality, supporting the rise of a number of anarchist schools\". Anthropologist David Graeber has noted that while the major schools of Marxism always have founders (e.g. Leninism, Trotskyism and Maoism), schools of anarchism \"almost invariably emerge from some kind of organizational principle or form of practice\", citing anarcho-syndicalism, individualist anarchism and platformism as examples.\n\nIn founding philosophical anarchism, William Godwin developed what many consider the first expression of modern anarchist thought. According to Peter Kropotkin, Godwin was \"the first to formulate the political and economical conceptions of anarchism, even though he did not give that name to the ideas developed in his work\". Philosophical anarchism contends that the state lacks moral legitimacy; that there is no individual obligation or duty to obey the state and conversely that the state has no right to command individuals, but it does not advocate revolution to eliminate the state. According to \"The Blackwell Dictionary of Modern Social Thought\", philosophical anarchism \"is a component especially of individualist anarchism\".\n\nPhilosophical anarchists may accept the existence of a minimal state as an unfortunate and usually temporary \"necessary evil\", but argue that citizens do not have a moral obligation to obey the state when its laws conflict with individual autonomy. As conceived by Godwin, it requires individuals to act in accordance with their own judgments and to allow every other individual the same liberty—conceived egoistically as by Max Stirner, it implies that \"the unique one\" who truly \"owns himself\" recognizes no duties to others; and within the limit of his might, he does what is right for him. Godwin opposed revolutionary action and saw a minimal state as a present \"necessary evil\" that would become increasingly irrelevant and powerless by the gradual spread of knowledge. Godwin advocated extreme individualism, proposing that all cooperation in labor be eliminated. Godwin felt discrimination on any grounds besides ability was intolerable.\n\nRather than throwing bombs or taking up arms to bring down the state, philosophical anarchists \"have worked for a gradual change to free the individual from what they thought were the oppressive laws and social constraints of the modern state and allow all individuals to become self-determining and value-creating\". They may oppose the immediate elimination of the state by violent means out of concern that it would be left unsecured against the establishment of a more harmful and oppressive state. This is especially true among those anarchists who consider violence and the state as synonymous, or who consider it counterproductive where public reaction to violence results in increased \"law enforcement\" efforts.\n\nMutualism began in 18th-century English and French labor movements, then took an anarchist form associated with Pierre-Joseph Proudhon in France and others in the United States. This influenced individualist anarchists in the United States such as Benjamin Tucker and William B. Greene. Josiah Warren proposed similar ideas in 1833 after participating in a failed Owenite experiment. In the 1840s and 1850s, Charles A. Dana and William B. Greene introduced Proudhon's works to the United States. Greene adapted Proudhon's mutualism to American conditions and introduced it to Benjamin R. Tucker.\n\nMutualist anarchism is concerned with reciprocity, free association, voluntary contract, federation and credit and currency reform. Many mutualists believe a market without government intervention drives prices down to labor-costs, eliminating profit, rent and interest according to the labor theory of value. Firms would be forced to compete over workers just as workers compete over firms, raising wages. Some see mutualism as between individualist and collectivist anarchism. In \"What Is Property?\", Proudhon develops a concept of \"liberty\", equivalent to \"anarchy\", which is the dialectical \"synthesis of communism and property\". Greene, influenced by Pierre Leroux, sought mutualism in the synthesis of three philosophies—communism, capitalism and socialism. Later individualist anarchists used the term mutualism, but retained little emphasis on synthesis while social anarchists such as the authors of An Anarchist FAQ claim mutualism as a subset of their philosophical tradition.\n\nSocial anarchism is an umbrella term used to identify a broad category of anarchism independent of individualist anarchism. Where individualist forms of anarchism emphasize personal autonomy and the rational nature of human beings, social anarchism sees \"individual freedom as conceptually connected with social equality and emphasize community and mutual aid\". Social anarchism is used to specifically describe anarchist tendencies within anarchism that have an emphasis on the communitarian and cooperative aspects of anarchist theory and practice. Social anarchism includes (but is not limited to) collectivist anarchism, anarcho-communism, libertarian socialism, anarcho-syndicalism and social ecology.\n\nCollectivist anarchism is a revolutionary form of anarchism most commonly associated with Mikhail Bakunin, Johann Most and the anti-authoritarian section of the First International (1864–1876). Unlike mutualists, collectivist anarchists oppose all private ownership of the means of production, instead advocating that ownership be collectivized. This was to be initiated by small cohesive elite group through acts of violence, or \"propaganda by the deed\", which would inspire the workers to revolt and forcibly collectivize the means of production. Workers would be compensated for their work on the basis of the amount of time they contributed to production, rather than goods being distributed \"according to need\" as in anarcho-communism. Although the collectivist anarchists advocated compensation for labor, some held out the possibility of a post-revolutionary transition to a communist system of distribution according to need. Collective anarchism arose contemporaneously with Marxism, but it opposed the Marxist dictatorship of the proletariat despite Marxism striving for a collectivist stateless society.\n\nSome collectivist anarchists do not oppose the use of currency. Some support workers being paid based on the amount of time they contributed to production. These salaries would be used to purchase commodities in a communal market. This contrasts with anarcho-communism where wages would be abolished and where individuals would take freely from a storehouse of goods \"to each according to his need\". Many modern-day collectivist anarchists hold their form of anarchism as a permanent society rather than a carryover to anarcho-communism or a gift economy. Some collectivist anarchists such as proponents of participatory economics believe in remuneration and a form of credit but do not believe in money or markets.\n\nAlthough collectivist anarchism shares many similarities with anarchist communism, there are also many key differences between them. For example, collectivist anarchists believe that the economy and most or all property should be collectively owned by society while anarchist communists by contrast believe that the concept of ownership should be rejected by society and replaced with the concept of usage. Also collectivist anarchists often favor using a form of currency to compensate workers according to the amount of time spent contributing to society and production while anarcho-communists believe that currency and wages should be abolished all together and goods should be distributed \"to each according to his or her need\".\n\nAnarcho-communism is a theory of anarchism which advocates the abolition of the state, markets, money, private property (while retaining respect for personal property) and capitalism in favor of common ownership of the means of production, direct democracy and a horizontal network of voluntary associations and workers' councils with production and consumption based on the guiding principle: \"From each according to his ability, to each according to his need\".\n\nSome forms of anarchist communism such as insurrectionary anarchism are strongly influenced by egoism and radical individualism, believing anarcho-communism is the best social system for the realization of individual freedom. Most anarcho-communists view it as a way of reconciling the opposition between the individual and society.\n\nAnarcho-communism developed out of radical socialist currents after the French Revolution, but it was first formulated as such in the Italian section of the First International. The theoretical work of Peter Kropotkin took importance later as it expanded and developed pro-organizationalist and insurrectionary anti-organizationalist sections.\n\nTo date, the best-known examples of an anarchist communist society (i.e. established around the ideas as they exist today and achieving worldwide attention and knowledge in the historical canon) are the anarchist territories during the Spanish Revolution and the Free Territory during the Russian Revolution. Through the efforts and influence of the Spanish anarchists during the Spanish Revolution within the Spanish Civil War, starting in 1936 anarcho-communism existed in most of Aragon, parts of the Levante and Andalusia as well as in the stronghold of anarchist Catalonia before being crushed by the combined forces of Fascist Francoism, Hitler, Mussolini, Spanish Communist Party repression (backed by the Soviet Union) as well as economic and armaments blockades from the capitalist countries and the Spanish Republic itself. During the Russian Revolution, anarcho-communists such as Nestor Makhno worked to create and defend—through the Revolutionary Insurrectionary Army of Ukraine—anarchism in the Free Territory of the Ukraine from 1919 before being conquered by the Bolsheviks in 1921.\n\nIn the early 20th century, anarcho-syndicalism arose as a distinct school of thought within anarchism. More heavily focused on the labour movement than previous forms of anarchism, syndicalism posits radical trade unions as a potential force for revolutionary social change, replacing capitalism and the state with a new society, democratically self-managed by the workers. Anarcho-syndicalists seek to abolish the wage system and private ownership of the means of production, which they believe lead to class divisions. Important principles of syndicalism include workers' solidarity, direct action (such as general strikes and workplace recuperations) and workers' self-management.\n\nAnarcho-syndicalism and other branches of anarchism are not mutually exclusive: anarcho-syndicalists often subscribe to communist or collectivist anarchism. Its advocates propose labour organization as a means to create the foundations of a non-hierarchical anarchist society within the current system and bring about social revolution. According to An Anarchist FAQ, anarcho-syndicalist economic systems often take the form of either a collectivist anarchist economic system or an anarcho-communist economic system.\n\nRudolf Rocker is considered a leading anarcho-syndicalist theorist. He outlined a view of the origins of the movement, what it sought and why it was important to the future of labour in his 1938 pamphlet \"Anarchosyndicalism\". Although more frequently associated with labor struggles of the early 20th century (particularly in France and Spain), many syndicalist organizations are active today, including the SAC in Sweden, the USI in Italy and the CNT in Spain. A number of these organizations are united across national borders by membership in the International Workers Association.\n\nIndividualist anarchism refers to several traditions of thought within the anarchist movement that emphasize the individual and their will over any kinds of external determinants such as groups, society, traditions and ideological systems.\n\nEgoist anarchism is a school of anarchist thought that originated in the philosophy of Max Stirner, a nineteenth-century Hegelian philosopher whose \"name appears with familiar regularity in historically orientated surveys of anarchist thought as one of the earliest and best-known exponents of individualist anarchism\". Stirner's philosophy is usually called \"egoism\" as he says that the egoist rejects devotion to \"a great idea, a cause, a doctrine, a system, a lofty calling\", saying that the egoist has no political calling but rather \"lives themselves out\" without regard to \"how well or ill humanity may fare thereby\". Stirner held that the only limitation on the rights of the individual is his power to obtain what he desires. He proposes that most commonly accepted social institutions – including the notion of state, property as a right, natural rights in general and the very notion of society – were mere \"spooks\" in the mind. Stirner wanted to \"abolish not only the state but also society as an institution responsible for its members\".\n\nStirner's idea of the Union of egoists () was first expounded in \"The Ego and Its Own\". The Union is understood as a non-systematic association, which Stirner proposed in contradistinction to the state. The Union is understood as a relation between egoists which is continually renewed by all parties' support through an act of will. The Union requires that all parties participate out of a conscious egoism. If one party silently finds themselves to be suffering, but puts up with it and keeps up appearances, the Union has degenerated into something else. This Union is not seen as an authority above a person's own will. This idea has received interpretations for politics, economic and sex/love.\n\nThough Stirner's philosophy is individualist, it has influenced some libertarian communists and anarcho-communists. \"For Ourselves Council for Generalized Self-Management\" discusses Stirner and speaks of a \"communist egoism\", which is said to be a \"synthesis of individualism and collectivism\" and says that \"greed in its fullest sense is the only possible basis of communist society\". Forms of libertarian communism such as insurrectionary anarchism are influenced by Stirner. Anarcho-communist Emma Goldman was influenced by both Stirner and Peter Kropotkin and blended their philosophies together in her own.\n\nThe Scottish born German writer John Henry Mackay found out about Stirner while reading a copy of Friedrich Albert Lange's \"History of Materialism and Critique of its Present Importance\". Later, Mackay looked for a copy of \"The Ego and Its Own\" and after being fascinated with it he wrote a biography of Stirner (\"Max Stirner – sein Leben und sein Werk\"), published in German in 1898. Mackay's propaganda of stirnerist egoism and of male homosexual and bisexual rights affected Adolf Brand, who in 1896 published the world's first ongoing homosexual publication, \"Der Eigene\". Another later German anarchist publication influenced deeply by Stirner was \"Der Einzige\". It appeared in 1919, as a weekly, then sporadically until 1925 and was edited by cousins Anselm Ruest (pseud. for Ernst Samuel) and Mynona (pseudonym for Salomo Friedlaender).\n\nStirnerian egoism became a main influence on European individualist anarchism including its main proponents in the early 20th century such as Emile Armand and Han Ryner in France, Renzo Novatore in Italy, Miguel Giménez Igualada in Spain and in Russia Lev Chernyi. Illegalism was an anarchist practice that developed primarily in France, Italy, Belgium and Switzerland during the early 1900s that found justification in Stirner's philosophy. The illegalists openly embraced criminality as a lifestyle. Some American individualist anarchists such as Benjamin Tucker, abandoned natural rights positions and converted to Max Stirner's egoist anarchism. Among those American anarchists who adhered to egoism include Benjamin Tucker, John Beverley Robinson, Steven T. Byington, Hutchins Hapgood, James L. Walker, Victor Yarros and E.H. Fulton. John Beverley Robinson wrote an essay called \"Egoism\" in which he states that \"[m]odern egoism, as propounded by Stirner and Nietzsche, and expounded by Ibsen, Shaw and others, is all these; but it is more. It is the realization by the individual that they are an individual; that, as far as they are concerned, they are the only individual\". Anarchist communist Emma Goldman was influenced by both Stirner and Peter Kropotkin as well as the Russian strain of individualist anarchism and blended these philosophies together in her own, as shown in books of hers such as \"Anarchism And Other Essays\". Enrico Arrigoni (pseudonym: Frank Brand) was an Italian American individualist anarchist Lathe operator, house painter, bricklayer, dramatist and political activist influenced by the work of Stirner. Stirner's philosophy also found followers in Colombia in Biófilo Panclasta and in Japan in Jun Tsuji and Sakae Osugi.\n\nIn the 1980s, it emerged in the United States the tendency of post-left anarchy which was influenced profoundly by Stirnerist egoism in aspects such as the critique of ideology.\n\nJosiah Warren is widely regarded as the first American anarchist and the four-page weekly paper he edited during 1833, \"The Peaceful Revolutionist\", was the first anarchist periodical published. For American anarchist historian Eunice Minette Schuster, \"[i]t is apparent...that Proudhonian Anarchism was to be found in the United States at least as early as 1848 and that it was not conscious of its affinity to the Individualist Anarchism of Josiah Warren and Stephen Pearl Andrews...William B. Greene presented this Proudhonian Mutualism in its purest and most systematic form\". Henry David Thoreau (1817–1862) was an important early influence in individualist anarchist thought in the United States and Europe. Thoreau was an American author, poet, naturalist, tax resister, development critic, surveyor, historian, philosopher and leading transcendentalist. He is best known for his books \"Walden\", a reflection upon simple living in natural surroundings, as well as his essay, \"Civil Disobedience\", an argument for individual resistance to civil government in moral opposition to an unjust state. Later, Benjamin Tucker fused Stirner's egoism with the economics of Warren and Proudhon in his eclectic influential publication \"Liberty\".\n\nAn important concern for American individualist anarchism was free love. Free love particularly stressed women's rights since most sexual laws discriminated against women—for example, marriage laws and anti-birth control measures. The most important American free love journal was \"Lucifer the Lightbearer\" (1883–1907) edited by Moses Harman and Lois Waisbrooker, but also there existed Ezra Heywood and Angela Heywood's \"\"The Word\"\" (1872–1890, 1892–1893). \"Free Society\" (1895–1897 as \"The Firebrand\"; 1897–1904 as \"Free Society\") was a major anarchist newspaper in the United States at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th centuries. The publication staunchly advocated free love and women's rights and critiqued \"Comstockery\" – censorship of sexual information. Also M. E. Lazarus was an important American individualist anarchist who promoted free love.\n\nFreethought also motivated activism in this movement. \"Freethought was a basically anti-christian, anti-clerical movement, whose purpose was to make the individual politically and spiritually free to decide for himself on religious matters. A number of contributors to \"Liberty\" (anarchist publication) were prominent figures in both freethought and anarchism. The individualist anarchist George MacDonald was a co-editor of \"Freethought\" and, for a time, \"The Truth Seeker\". E.C. Walker was co-editor of the excellent free-thought / free love journal \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\"\". \"Many of the anarchists were ardent freethinkers; reprints from freethought papers such as \"Lucifer, the Light-Bearer\", \"Freethought\" and \"The Truth Seeker\" appeared in \"Liberty\"...The church was viewed as a common ally of the state and as a repressive force in and of itself\".\n\nEuropean Individualist anarchism proceeded from the roots laid by William Godwin, Pierre Joseph Proudhon and Max Stirner. Proudhon was an early pioneer of anarchism as well as of the important individualist anarchist current of mutualism. Stirner became a central figure of individualist anarchism through the publication of his seminal work \"The Ego and Its Own\" which is considered to be \"a founding text in the tradition of individualist anarchism\". Another early figure was Anselme Bellegarrigue. Individualist anarchism expanded and diversified through Europe, incorporating influences from North American individualist anarchism.\n\nEuropean individualist anarchists include Max Stirner, Albert Libertad, Anselme Bellegarrigue, Émile Armand, Enrico Arrigoni, Lev Chernyi, John Henry Mackay, Han Ryner, Renzo Novatore, Miguel Giménez Igualada and currently Michel Onfray. Two influential authors in European individualist anarchists are Friedrich Nietzsche (see Anarchism and Friedrich Nietzsche) and Georges Palante.\n\nFrom the legacy of Proudhon and Stirner there emerged a strong tradition of French individualist anarchism. An early figure was Anselme Bellegarrigue. He participated in the French Revolution of 1848, was author and editor of \"Anarchie, Journal de l'Ordre and Au fait ! Au fait ! Interprétation de l'idée démocratique\" and wrote the important early \"Anarchist Manifesto\" in 1850. \"Autonomie Individuelle\" was an individualist anarchist publication that ran from 1887 to 1888. It was edited by Jean-Baptiste Louiche, Charles Schæffer and Georges Deherme. This tradition later continued with such intellectuals as Albert Libertad, André Lorulot, Emile Armand, Victor Serge, Zo d'Axa and Rirette Maitrejean, who in 1905 developed theory in the main individualist anarchist journal in France, \"L'Anarchie\". Outside this journal, Han Ryner wrote \"Petit Manuel individualiste\" (1903) and later appeared the journal \"L'En-Dehors\" created by Zo d'Axa in 1891.\n\nFrench individualist circles had a strong sense of personal libertarianism and experimentation. Naturism and free love contents started to have a strong influence in individualist anarchist circles and from there it expanded to the rest of anarchism also appearing in Spanish individualist anarchist groups.\n\nAnarchist naturism was promoted by Henri Zisly, Emile Gravelle and Georges Butaud. Butaud was an individualist \"partisan of the \"milieux libres\", publisher of \"Flambeau\" (\"an enemy of authority\") in 1901 in Vienna. Most of his energies were devoted to creating anarchist colonies (\"communautés expérimentales\") in which he participated in several.\n\n\"In this sense, the theoretical positions and the vital experiences of french individualism are deeply iconoclastic and scandalous, even within libertarian circles. The call of nudist naturism, the strong defence of birth control methods, the idea of \"unions of egoists\" with the sole justification of sexual practices, that will try to put in practice, not without difficulties, will establish a way of thought and action, and will result in sympathy within some, and a strong rejection within others\".\n\nIllegalism is an anarchist philosophy that developed primarily in France, Italy, Belgium and Switzerland during the early 1900s as an outgrowth of Stirner's individualist anarchism. Illegalists usually did not seek moral basis for their actions, recognizing only the reality of \"might\" rather than \"right\" and for the most part illegal acts were done simply to satisfy personal desires, not for some greater ideal, although some committed crimes as a form of propaganda of the deed. The illegalists embraced direct action and propaganda by the deed.\n\nSpain received the influence of American individualist anarchism but most importantly it was related to the French currents. At the start of the 20th century, individualism in Spain takes force through the efforts of people such as Dorado Montero, Ricardo Mella, Federico Urales and J. Elizalde, who will translate French and American individualists. Important in this respect were also magazines such as \"La Idea Libre\", \"La revista blanca\", \"Etica\", \"Iniciales\", \"Al margen\" and \"Nosotros\". In Germany, the Scottish-German John Henry McKay became the most important propagandist for individualist anarchist ideas. Adolf Brand (1874–1945) was a German writer, stirnerist anarchist and pioneering campaigner for the acceptance of male bisexuality and homosexuality. BIn 1896, Brand published a German homosexual periodical, \"Der Eigene\". The Irish anarchist writer of the Decadent movement Oscar Wilde influenced individualist anarchists such as Renzo Novatore and gained the admiration of Benjamin Tucker.\n\nInsurrectionary anarchism is a revolutionary theory, practice and tendency within the anarchist movement which emphasizes the theme of insurrection within anarchist practice. It opposes formal organizations such as labor unions and federations that are based on a political programme and periodic congresses. Instead, insurrectionary anarchists support informal organization and small affinity group based organization. Insurrectionary anarchists put value in attack, permanent class conflict and a refusal to negotiate or compromise with class enemies.\n\nContemporary insurrectionary anarchism inherits the views and tactics of anti-organizational anarcho-communism and illegalism. Important theorists within it include Alfredo Maria Bonanno and Wolfi Landstreicher.\n\nGreen anarchism (or eco-anarchism) is a school of thought within anarchism which puts an emphasis on environmental issues. An important early influence was the thought of the American anarchist Henry David Thoreau and his book \"Walden\" as well as Leo Tolstoy and Elisee Reclus. In the late 19th century there emerged anarcho-naturism as the fusion of anarchism and naturist philosophies within individualist anarchist circles in France, Spain and Portugal. Important contemporary currents are anarcho-primitivism and social ecology.\n\nNotable contemporary writers espousing green anarchism include Murray Bookchin, Daniel Chodorkoff, anthropologist Brian Morris and people around Institute for Social Ecology; and those critical of technology such as Layla AbdelRahim, Derrick Jensen, George Draffan, and John Zerzan; and others such as Alan Carter.\nSocial ecologists, also considered a kind of socialist anarchist, often criticize the main currents of anarchism for their focus and debates about politics and economics instead of a focus on eco-system (human and environmental). This theory promotes libertarian municipalism and green technology. Anarcho-primitivists often criticize mainstream anarchism for supporting civilization and modern technology which they believe are inherently based on domination and exploitation. They instead advocate the process of rewilding or reconnecting with the natural environment. Veganarchism is the political philosophy of veganism (more specifically animal liberation) and green anarchism. This encompasses viewing the state as unnecessary and harmful to both human and animals whilst practising a vegan diet.\n\nAnarcho-primitivism is an anarchist critique of the origins and progress of civilization. According to anarcho-primitivism, the shift from hunter-gatherer to agricultural subsistence gave rise to social stratification, coercion and alienation. Anarcho-primitivists advocate a return to non-\"civilized\" ways of life through deindustrialisation, abolition of the division of labour or specialization and abandonment of large-scale organization technologies. There are other non-anarchist forms of primitivism, and not all primitivists point to the same phenomenon as the source of modern, civilized problems.\n\nMany traditional anarchists reject the critique of civilization while some such as Wolfi Landstreicher endorse the critique but do not consider themselves anarcho-primitivists. Some anarcho-primitivists are often distinguished by their focus on the praxis of achieving a feral state of being through \"rewilding\".\n\nAnarcho-naturism (also anarchist naturism and naturist anarchism) appeared in the late 19th century as the union of anarchist and naturist philosophies. Mainly it had importance within individualist anarchist circles in Spain, France, Portugal and Cuba.\n\nAnarcho-naturism advocated vegetarianism, free love, nudism, hiking and an ecological world view within anarchist groups and outside them. Anarcho-naturism promoted an ecological worldview, small ecovillages and most prominently nudism as a way to avoid the artificiality of the industrial mass society of modernity. Naturist individualist anarchists saw the individual in his biological, physical and psychological aspects and tried to eliminate social determinations.\n\nSocial ecology is a philosophy developed by Murray Bookchin in the 1960s which holds that present ecological problems are rooted in deep-seated social problems, particularly in dominatory hierarchical political and social systems. These have resulted in an uncritical acceptance of an overly competitive grow-or-die philosophy. It suggests that this cannot be resisted by individual action such as ethical consumerism, but must be addressed by more nuanced ethical thinking and collective activity grounded in radical democratic ideals. The complexity of relationships between people and with nature is emphasised, along with the importance of establishing social structures that take account of this.\n\nAnarcha-feminism (occasionally called anarcho-feminism) is a form of anarchism that synthesizes radical feminism and anarchism that views patriarchy (male domination over women) as a fundamental manifestation of involuntary hierarchy which anarchists often oppose. Anarcha-feminism was inspired in the late 19th century by the writings of early feminist anarchists such as Lucy Parsons, Emma Goldman and Voltairine de Cleyre. Anarcha-feminists, like other radical feminists, criticize and advocate the abolition of traditional conceptions of family, education and gender roles. Anarcha-feminists are especially critical of marriage. For instance, the feminist anarchist Emma Goldman has argued that marriage is a purely economic arrangement and that \"[woman] pays for it with her name, her privacy, her self-respect, her very life\".\n\nAnarcha-feminists also often criticize the views of some of the traditional anarchists such as Mikhail Bakunin who have believed that patriarchy is only a minor problem and is dependent only on the existence of the state and capitalism and will disappear soon after such institutions are abolished. Anarcha-feminists by contrast view patriarchy as a fundamental problem in society and believe that the feminist struggle against sexism and patriarchy is an essential component of the anarchist struggle against the state and capitalism. As Susan Brown puts it, \"as anarchism is a political philosophy that opposes all relationships of power, it is inherently feminist\".\n\nAnarcho-pacifism (also pacifist anarchism or anarchist pacifism) is a form of anarchism which completely rejects the use of violence in any form for any purpose. The main precedent was Henry David Thoreau who through his work Civil Disobedience influenced both Leo Tolstoy and Mohandas Gandhi's advocacy of nonviolent resistance. As a global movement, anarchist pacifism emerged shortly before World War II in the Netherlands, Great Britain and the United States and was a strong presence in the subsequent campaigns for nuclear disarmament.\n\nViolence has always been controversial in anarchism. While many anarchists during the 19th century embraced propaganda of the deed, Leo Tolstoy and other anarcho-pacifists directly opposed violence as a means for change. Tolstoy argued that anarchism must by nature be nonviolent, since it is by definition opposition to coercion and force and that since the state is inherently violent, meaningful pacifism must likewise be anarchistic. His philosophy was cited as a major inspiration by Gandhi, an Indian independence leader and pacifist who self-identified as an anarchist. Ferdinand Domela Nieuwenhuis was also instrumental in establishing the pacifist trend within the anarchist movement. In France in December 1902, Georges Yvetot was one of the founders of the \"Ligue antimilitariste\", along with fellow anarchists Henri Beylie, Paraf-Javal, Albert Libertad and Émile Janvion. The \"Ligue antimilitariste\" was to become the French section of the \"Association internationale antimilitariste\" (AIA) founded in Amsterdam in 1904.\n\nReligious anarchism refers to a set of related anarchist ideologies that are inspired by the teachings of (organized) religions, but many anarchists have traditionally been skeptical of and opposed to organized religion. Many different religions have served as inspiration for religious forms of anarchism, most notably Christianity, as Christian anarchists believe that biblical teachings give credence to anarchist philosophy. Non-Christian forms of religious anarchism include Buddhist anarchism, Jewish anarchism and most recently Neopaganism. Neopaganism focuses on the sanctity of the environment and equality and is often of a decentralized nature. This led to a number of Neopagan-inspired anarchists, one of the most prominent of which is Starhawk, who writes extensively about both spirituality and activism.\n\nChristian anarchism is a form of religious anarchism that seeks to combine anarchism with Christianity, claiming that anarchism is justified by the teachings of Jesus Christ. Early Christian communities have been described by Christian anarchists and some historians as possessing anarcho-communist characteristics. Christian anarchists such as Leo Tolstoy and Ammon Hennacy believe that the teachings of Paul of Tarsus caused a shift from the earlier more egalitarian and anarchistic teachings of Jesus. However, others believe that Paul with his strong emphasis on God's Providence is to be understood as a holding to anarchist principles.\n\nAnarchism without adjectives, in the words of historian George Richard Esenwein, \"referred to an unhyphenated form of anarchism, that is, a doctrine without any qualifying labels such as communist, collectivist, mutualist, or individualist. For others, [...] [i]t was simply understood as an attitude that tolerated the coexistence of different anarchist schools\". Anarchism without adjectives emphasizes harmony between various anarchist factions and attempts to unite them around their shared anti-authoritarian beliefs. The expression was coined by Cuban-born Fernando Tarrida del Mármol, who used it in Barcelona in November 1889 as a call for tolerance, after being troubled by the \"bitter debates\" between the different movements. Rudolf Rocker said that the different types of anarchism presented \"only different methods of economy, the practical possibilities of which have yet to be tested, and that the first objective is to secure the personal and social freedom of men no matter upon which economics basis this is to be accomplished\".\n\nVoltairine de Cleyre was an anarchist without adjectives who initially identified herself as an individualist anarchist but later espoused a collectivist form of anarchism, while refusing to identify herself with any of the contemporary schools (\"The best thing ordinary workingmen or women could do was to organise their industry to get rid of money altogether . . . Let them produce together, co-operatively rather than as employer and employed; let them fraternise group by group, let each use what he needs of his own product, and deposit the rest in the storage-houses, and let those others who need goods have them as occasion arises\"). She commented that \"Socialism and Communism both demand a degree of joint effort and administration which would beget more regulation than is wholly consistent with ideal Anarchism; Individualism and Mutualism, resting upon property, involve a development of the private policeman not at all compatible with my notion of freedom\" although she stopped short of denouncing these tendencies as un-anarchistic (\"There is nothing un-Anarchistic about any of [these systems] until the element of compulsion enters and obliges unwilling persons to remain in a community whose economic arrangements they do not agree to\"). Errico Malatesta was another proponent of anarchism without adjectives, stating that \"[i]t is not right for us, to say the least, to fall into strife over mere hypotheses\".\n\nSynthesis anarchism, synthesism or synthesis federations is a form of anarchist organization which tries to join anarchists of different tendencies under the principles of anarchism without adjectives. In the 1920s, this form found as its main proponents Volin and Sebastien Faure. It is the main principle behind the anarchist federations grouped around the contemporary global International of Anarchist Federations.\n\nPlatformism is a tendency within the wider anarchist movement which shares an affinity with organising in the tradition of Dielo Truda's \"Organizational Platform of the General Union of Anarchists (Draft)\". The \"Platform\" came from the experiences of Russian anarchists in the 1917 October Revolution, which led eventually to the victory of Bolsheviks over the anarchists and other like-minded groups. The \"Platform\" attempted to explain and address the failure of the anarchist movement during the Russian Revolution. As a controversial pamphlet, the Platform drew both praise and criticism from anarchists worldwide.\n\nAnarchism generates many eclectic and syncretic philosophies and movements. Since the revival of anarchism in the mid 20th century, a number of new movements and schools have appeared. Anarchist anthropologist David Graeber has posited a rupture between generations of anarchism, with those \"who often still have not shaken the sectarian habits of the last century\" contrasted with the younger activists who are \"much more informed, among other elements, by indigenous, feminist, ecological and cultural-critical ideas\" and who by the start of the 21st century formed \"by far the majority\" of anarchists.\n\nPost-left anarchy is a recent current in anarchist thought that promotes a critique of anarchism's relationship to traditional leftism. Some post-leftists seek to escape the confines of ideology in general also presenting a critique of organizations and morality. Influenced by the work of Max Stirner and by the Situationist International, post-left anarchy is marked by a focus on social insurrection and a rejection of leftist social organisation.\n\nThe magazines \"\", \"Green Anarchy\" and \"Fifth Estate\" have been involved in developing post-left anarchy. Individual writers associated with the tendency are Hakim Bey, Bob Black, John Zerzan, Jason McQuinn, Fredy Perlman, Lawrence Jarach and Wolfi Landstreicher. The contemporary network of collectives CrimethInc. is an exponent of post-left anarchist views.\n\nThe term post-anarchism was originated by Saul Newman and first received popular attention in his book \"From Bakunin to Lacan\" to refer to a theoretical move towards a synthesis of classical anarchist theory and poststructuralist thought. However, subsequent to Newman's use of the term it has taken on a life of its own and a wide range of ideas including post-modernism, autonomism, post-left anarchy, situationism, post-colonialism and Zapatismo. By its very nature, post-anarchism rejects the idea that it should be a coherent set of doctrines and beliefs. As such it is difficult, if not impossible, to state with any degree of certainty who should or should not be grouped under the rubric. Nonetheless key thinkers associated with post-anarchism include Saul Newman, Todd May, Lewis Call, Gilles Deleuze, Félix Guattari and Michel Onfray.\n\nQueer anarchism is a form of socialism which suggests anarchism as a solution to the issues faced by the LGBT community, mainly heteronormativity, homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. Anarcho-queer arose during the late 20th century based on the work of Michel Foucault \"The History of Sexuality\".\n\nLeft-wing market anarchism is associated with scholars such as Kevin Carson, Roderick T. Long, Charles Johnson, Brad Spangler, Samuel Edward Konkin III, Sheldon Richman, Chris Matthew Sciabarra and Gary Chartier, who stress the value of radically free markets, termed \"freed markets\" to distinguish them from the common conception which these libertarians believe to be riddled with statist and capitalist privileges. Referred to as left-wing market anarchists or market-oriented left-libertarians, proponents of this approach strongly affirm the classical liberal ideas of self-ownership and free markets, while maintaining that taken to their logical conclusions these ideas support strongly anti-corporatist, anti-hierarchical, pro-labor positions in economics; anti-imperialism in foreign policy; and thoroughly liberal or radical views regarding such cultural issues as gender, sexuality, and race. This strand of left-libertarianism tends to be rooted either in the mutualist economics conceptualized by Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, American individualist anarchism, or in a left-wing interpretation or extension of the thought of Murray Rothbard.\n\nGary Chartier has joined Kevin Carson, Charles Johnson and others (echoing the language of Benjamin Tucker and Thomas Hodgskin) in maintaining that because of its heritage and its emancipatory goals and potential, radical market anarchism should be seen – by its proponents and by others – as part of the socialist tradition and that market anarchists can and should call themselves \"socialists\".\n\nAnarcho-capitalism is an ideology that espouses anything voluntary is moral. This includes a voluntary employee/employer hierarchy. Anarcho-Capitalism advocates the elimination of the state in favour of individual sovereignty in a free market. Anarcho-capitalism developed from radical anti-state libertarianism and individualist anarchism, drawing from Austrian School economics, study of law and economics and public choice theory. Critics within anarchism do not believe that anarcho-capitalism can be considered to be a part of the anarchist movement due to the fact that anarchism has historically been an anti-capitalist movement and for definitional reasons which see anarchism as incompatible with capitalism. Conversely, Anarcho Capitalists generally consider that their philosophy predates the socialist forms of anarchism, and indeed represents the \"only\" pure form of anarchism. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "21051118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21051118", "title": "Andreas Röschlaub", "text": "Andreas Röschlaub\n\nAndreas Röschlaub (21 October 1768 – 7 July 1835) was a German physician born in Lichtenfels, Bavaria.\n\nHe studied medicine at the Universities of Würzburg and Bamberg, gaining his doctorate at the latter institution in 1795. In 1798 he became a full professor of pathology at Bamberg, and in 1802 transferred to the University of Landshut, where he was director of the medical school. In 1826 he relocated to the University of Munich as a professor of medicine.\nHe died on July 7, 1835 during a recreational trip to Ulm.\n\nRöschlaub is remembered for development of the \"Erregbarkeitstheorie\" (excitability theory), which was a modification of Brownianism, a speculative theory of medicine that was initially formulated by Scottish physician John Brown (1735–1788).\n\nHe was editor of \"Magazin zur Vervollkommnung der theoretischen und praktischen Heilkunde\" (Magazine for the Perfection of Theoretical and Practical Medicine), and the author of a textbook on classification of diseases titled \"Lehrbuch der Nosologie\".\n\nUntil recently, the history of German medicine, particularly of Romantic medicine, had essentially denigrated, then largely forgotten, the contributions of the physician Andreas Röschlaub of Bamberg, a process that one reviewer terms \"a curious combination of obscurity and notoriety.\" (Nigel Reeves) However, a major revision of his place in German and European medicine, in particular Romantic medicine and the advancement of the Brunonian system, by N. Tsouyopoulos, has come to the conclusion that he \"was one of the most well-known, controversial and influential personalities of his time.\" His writings were extensive and influential as regards the problem of the reform of medicine and its placing on a sound scientific footing, and it was these writings that framed much of the debate in Germany at the time. Important figures of the time, such as Schelling and Hufeland undertook trips to Bamberg to meet him and seek his views. As one contemporary historian wrote \"even public teachers and not insignificant figures wrote textbooks in which almost every paragraph begins with 'Röschlaub teaches' \" .\n\nThe main reason for the neglect of Röschlaub's place in history is likely his acceptance of the ideas of Dr. John Brown while a medical student and their enthusiastic promotion, including making it the basis of a doctoral dissertation. He then further advanced Brown's ideas on graduation, making Germany the main centre for the implementation of the Brunonian system of medicine. Brown's ideas had been known in Germany some 10 years after the publication of \"Elementa Medicinae\" in 1780, when Dr. Christoph Girtanner, a well-known physician in Göttingen, wrote a paper in a French journal on Brunonianism without attributing the ideas to Brown, creating a minor scandal. Subsequently, a medical student at the university of Bamberg sent a copy of Brown's text to Professor Adam M. Weikard (1742-1803), who was sufficiently impressed to arrange the first German printing in 1794, and then to follow this with the publication the following year of his translation into German (Johann Brown's \"Grundsätze der Arzneilehre aus dem Lateinischen übersetzt\", Frankfurt). Then in 1796 a second translation, by Christoff Pfaff, was made available.\n\nRöschlaub made his own translation, but did not publish it until 1806-7 (in three volumes as \"John Brown's sämtliche Werke\") out of consideration for Weikard. Meanwhile, Röschlaub worked closely on his graduation with Adalbert Marcus, the director of the famous hospital in Bamberg, to work out the implementation of the Brunonian system and were ready to publish the results in 1797. The main work was Röschlaub's \"Untersuchungen über Pathogenie oder Einleitung in die Heilkunde\", 3 vols. Frankfurt, 1798-1800. The work and writings that came out of the Bamberg clinic made the town a famous, intellectual and medical centre.\"\n\nIn 1799 Röschlaub created a journal, the \"Magazin der Vervollkommung der theoretischen und praktischen Heilkunde\", published eventually in 10 volumes between 1799 and 1809. In the first volume, the famous natural philosopher, Schelling, wrote an article replying to a critical review of Brunonian literature in the renowned \"Allgemeine Literatur Zeitung\" earlier that year. While Schelling had been initially critical of Brown's work (\"Weltseele\", 1798), seeing in it but a mechanical approach, his contact with Röschlaub allowed him to appreciate the dynamic, vital nature of Brown's approach as he expressed in his \"The first outline of a system of a philosophy of nature\" (1799). Schelling's embracing of Brown's ideas led to a close collaboration with Röschlaub and a visit to Bamberg in 1800. Schelling's main contribution to the theory of excitability was to explain that there was a receptive and active antithetical function, which involved the generative power (Blumenbach's \"Bildungstrieb\" and Dr, Samuel Hahnemann's \"Lebenserzeugungskraft\"). Schelling held that each organism needs a 'special rhythm' and that this was a function of a certain degree of receptivity and activity, deviation from which meant disorder \"because it disturbs the rhythm of self-reproduction and finally influences the reproduction process itself, thus causing not only quantitative but also qualitative changes in the organism.\" \n\nThe nature of Schelling's influence in German culture was such as to further promote the Brunonian system, as presented by Röschlaub. \"It was Röschlaub's explanation which made Brown's principle [of life as a 'forced state'] acceptable\" to the German mind which had a more dynamic conception of life. Röschlaub helped to bring out the dynamic interplay between the outer stimulant ('excitant') and the inner life potential (excitability) resulting in the activity known as life (biological excitation). The organism possesses an intrinsic receptive activity to be acted upon but also a proactive ability to respond. Röschlaub also refined Brown's idea that disorders resulted from an excess (hypersthenia) or deficit (hyposthenia) of stimuli by adding that this involved a disporoportion between the receptive and pro-active sides of excitability.\n\nRöschlaub's work also allowed him to tie Brown's elements of a system of medicine to the emerging idea that physiology was the key to a scientific medicine. In this regard, Brown's central idea that pathology was simply a sub-set of physiology, a stretching of normal healthy dynamic rhythms or functions beyond a certain supportable degree, was central to then allowing German medicine to consider that \"pathology, nosology and clinical practice could be linked to physiology\" which seemed the way to establish a solid foundation for medicine in natural science. \nMedicine, for Röschlaub, becomes a science only when a true scientific physiology exists. \"Only then will medicine be possible as a true 'art' when organismic physiology becomes a truly perfected science.\" (1801) This meant that physiology had to take into account a life principle (Lebensprinzip) that organized matter, but was not dependent on matter. While Röschlaub worked with Johann Christian Reil's general conception of physiology, which accepted that physiology was a product of natural forces, but tended to see these in chemical terms uniquely.\n\nRöschlaub's explanation of excitability (\"Erregbarkeit\") as a dynamic, polarity between two antithetical functions - receptivity and pro-activity - made Brown's principle acceptable and also verifiable \"and as such applicable to practical medical diagnosis and therapy.\" His continued work, while it led to some differences with Schelling, further elaborated the Brunonian system, but Röschlaub eventually came to realize that it could not be taken further without a more overarching theory for excitation itself and the understanding of life energy [Nelly article p. 72] (which would eventually emerge in the work of Wilhelm Reich on orgone energy).\n\nThe Enlightenment view of human nature was an essentially static one (the unique individual who could be perfected according to reason), that of Romantic medicine dynamic (man was unique, but also evolving). While the idea of the mutability of human nature had emerged in the 1700s, it took root in the \"dynamization and historification of consciousness through German philosophy.\"\n\nGerman philosophy had an emerging view of life and consciousness as activity and action, such as expressed by Fichte: \"The only Being is Life. And the modes of action are the only reality of the I.\" which Röschlaub often quoted,\nand which idea he expressed himself: \"If we call the efficacy of living actions 'Life', then we must say by way of epitomizing this that all these bodies live.\" (1800) \nOut of this conception came the possibility of a new presentation of the relation between subject (I, consciousness-organism) and object (outer world, nature). The outer world wins for the first time a fundamental significance for the 'subject'; it can be seen as the ground of consciousness and life; it conditions namely the mode of the subject without annulling it; it is the stimulus of activity which modulates the subject, a view that was strikingly close to that held by John Brown, but which could not be perceived except in the more dynamic context of German Romantic medicine.\n\nThe healthcare implications were that a dynamic view considered therapeutic measures affecting the interior milieu important considerations for the physician.Röschlaub entered the debate on this issue arguing for the role of the physician in \"social medicine\" or hygiene, and the importance of hygiene itself to a scientific medicine, a position that was largely taken up later by Virchow, whose views on this in 1849 could have been word-for-word those of Röschlaub.\n\nHowever, where Virchow only saw hygiene as a prophylactic measure (negative role), Röschlaub also advocated a positive role, that is, the use of remedial measures to promote health. This was an idea that was largely forgotten until revived by Hans Buchner in 1896 in a lecture on \"Biology and Health Doctrine\", which caused quite a stir in German medical circles, but which also raises the question as to the goal of therapy, a question answered several decades later by the work of Wilhelm Reich and his function of the orgasm (special theory) and the more overarching theory of 'super-imposition.'\n\nIt was thanks to Röschlaub's interpretation, promotion and elaboration of Brown's new approach to medicine that it came to influence German medicine, and became the core aspect of German Romantic medicine. As the major historian of Röschlaub's contribution states, German medicine was shifted from the mechanism of the 1700s to a more dynamic conception of life and illness.\n\nRöschlaub strove to unify surgery and medicine, and to place Healthcare on a natural scientific basis whilst also recognizing the need for special methods in approaching clinical practice that went beyond the natural sciences, but also went beyond the purely speculative symptomatic prescribing of traditional medicine (semiotics).\n\nRöschlaub's championing of the new views of man and environment from Fichte and Schelling, stemming from Locke, and integrating these into the Brunonian system provided a scientific basis for considering Healthcare, one that continues to find echoes in medicine, such as expressed half a century later in the works of Claude Bernard. The new conception of man, as being acted upon by and acting in response to the world around him to create an individual ambient that was distinct from the environment more generally, is one that has persisted in medicine, particularly in various physicians concerned with hygiene, and the interaction of the organism and its environment, such as in the field of clinical ecology or 'environmental' medicine. As Röschlaub himself wrote quite presciently,\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1218816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218816", "title": "Andrew Joseph Galambos", "text": "Andrew Joseph Galambos\n\nAndrew Joseph Galambos (born Ifj. Galambos József András; June 28, 1924 in Hungary – April 10, 1997 in Orange County, California) was an astrophysicist and philosopher who innovated a social structure that seeks to maximize human peace and freedom. While Galambos had much in common with his classical liberal contemporaries, his most unusual contributions concerned his theories on intellectual property, and his advocacy of a stateless society totally free of coercion, political or otherwise. He also is noteworthy for his integration of a wide variety of scientific, economic, and historical inputs in the creation of his ideal social structure, which he termed \"The Natural Republic\". Galambos distinguished his theory from that of Ludwig von Mises, subscribing to the same 'subjective theory of value' in economics but deriving it from his own definition of property.\n\nThe well-known libertarian author and 1996 Presidential candidate of the Libertarian Party, Harry Browne wrote of Andrew Galambos after his death:\n\n\"He was an influential libertarian, but I refer to him as 'the unknown libertarian' because he never wrote a book or appeared on national radio or TV. His renown will be limited mostly to those who came in personal contact with him. But he had a profound effect on thousands of individuals who took his courses—who in turn affected others. Undoubtedly the ripples from the stones he dropped eventually touched some of today's leading libertarians.\"\n\nGalambos was born in Hungary in 1924. His father, Joseph Galambos-Brown, had been an officer in the Austro-Hungarian army in World War I and then became a highly regarded architect. After the war, Galambos' father decided to emigrate to America to avoid his son becoming \"cannon fodder\" in a second world war, which he saw coming.\n\nDespite his father's wish to keep his son out of war, Galambos volunteered to serve in the U.S. Army during WWII. After completing his undergraduate work at City College of New York, he moved to Minnesota in 1948 where he met his future wife, Suzanne Siegel, a fellow student at the University of Minnesota. They married in 1949.\n\nGalambos earned degrees in physics from City College of New York (now City University of New York) and the University of Minnesota.\n\nGalambos moved to Los Angeles in 1952 to work for North American Aviation. Beginning in 1958, Galambos worked in the Space Technology Laboratory (STL) division of Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation, which later became TRW Space Technology Laboratories. There, Galambos worked as an astrophysicist calculating trajectories for Atlas ICBM's before the advent of high-speed digital computers. On the side, Galambos partnered with colleague Donald H. Allen in a business known as Universal Shares, which was an insurance and securities dealership.\n\nAs Galambos' ideas on freedom and proprietary government crystallized, he became disillusioned with his work at STL, which had evolved almost exclusively to focus on the development of inter-continental ballistic missiles for military purposes. Galambos did not want to work on weapons of war.\n\nAround 1958–1959 Galambos formulated a proposal to the director of STL, George Mueller, for a project to develop rockets for space exploration, including lunar landings. Mueller turned it down. A few years later, however, Mueller took a position with NASA where he worked on the Apollo 11 manned lunar landing project, the same type of project he had turned down when Galambos proposed it to him at STL.\n\nIn 1960, Galambos left the aerospace industry and joined the faculty of Whittier College to teach physics, astrophysics, and mathematics. While at Whittier, Galambos presented a popular extracurricular class entitled, \"The Decline and Renaissance of Laissez-Faire Capitalism.\" He also taught previously at New York University, Brooklyn College, Stevens Institute of Technology of Hoboken, New Jersey, the University of Minnesota, and Carleton College of Northfield, Minnesota.\n\nIn 1960, Galambos traveled with his colleague, Alvin Lowi Jr., to New York City where they met with Leonard Read of the Foundation for Economic Education (FEE) who introduced them to Henry Hazlitt, Ludwig von Mises, Murray Rothbard, and Ayn Rand.\n\nIn 1961, Galambos established The Free Enterprise Institute (FEI) which was the name he used for his teaching business. His initial course was entitled Course 100, Capitalism: The Key to Survival. He eventually taught courses on intellectual property, investments and insurance, financial planning, physics, and journalism, among others.\n\nGalambos had an important colleague in Jay Stuart Snelson (1936–2011). Snelson was the senior lecturer for FEI from 1964–1978, teaching both V-50 and V-201. In large part due to Snelson's teaching, at least 20,000 individuals attended courses offered by FEI during his tenure.\n\nCourse V-50T (the \"T\" was for Tape) was transcribed and published as \"Sic Itur Ad Astra\" (see below). Another course, V-201, focused on mechanisms for intellectual property protection for innovators. The initial letter \"V\" stands for volition, meaning the act of choosing, which is a fundamental characteristic of human beings.\n\nV-50T and V-201T are occasionally offered as tape recorded courses by The Free Enterprise Institute.\n\nIn 1999 volume one of Sic Itur Ad Astra (\"This is the Way to the Stars\") () was first published. The book is a transcription of Course V-50. Volume two, for course V-201, as of January 2014 has not yet been published.\n\nGalambos rejected the term social science, in part because most social scientists do not employ the scientific method to test their hypotheses. Jay Snelson suggested the term \"volitional science\" for its implication that volition, meaning the act of choosing, is at the center of Galambos' philosophy.\n\nIn course V-50, Galambos laid out his two postulates of volitional science: \nGalambos equates immoral action with coercion and defines freedom as \"the societal condition wherein every individual has one hundred percent control over his own property.\"\nGalambos derives his theory from these postulates. The essence of Course V-50 is Galambos' elaboration of his theory of volitional science and his application of that science to solve the problems of human society.\n\nGalambos' concept of property was basic to his philosophy. He defined property as a man's life and all non-procreative derivatives of his life.\n\nGalambos taught that property is essential to a non-coercive social structure. That is why he defined freedom as follows: \"Freedom is the societal condition that exists when every individual has full (100%) control over his own property.\" Galambos defines property as having the following elements:\n\n\nProperty includes all non-procreative derivatives of an individual's life; this means children are not the property of their parents, and also \"primary property\" (a person's own ideas).\n\nGalambos emphasized repeatedly that true government exists to protect property and that the state attacks property.\n\nFor example, the state requires payment for its services in the form of taxes whether or not people desire such services. Since an individual's money is his property, the confiscation of money in the form of taxes is an attack on property. Military conscription is likewise an attack on a person's primordial property. In the U.S. as of the early 21st century, there is a widespread public impression that military conscription no longer exists. To the contrary, it is required that all men between ages 18 and 26 register for conscription. Failure to do so is punishable by imprisonment and substantial fines.\n\nIn course V-201 Galambos focuses on primary property, which in his usage is quite similar to what has been called \"intellectual property\". Galambos argued that intellectual property owners should have primary control over their own ideas and over how others might use those ideas. According to Galambos, all forms of property come from a combination of \"primordial property\" (a person's life) and \"primary property\" (a person's own ideas). By using the natural resources available in the physical universe, individuals use their primordial property, guided by primary property (actions, guided by ideas, respectively) to create \"secondary property\".\n\nGalambos posited that intellectual property deserved every bit as much, if not more, protection and recognition as secondary property. His rationale for this can be explained by the following example:\n\nFew would question that Ludwig van Beethoven's music was his intellectual property and that it should be protected. Current copyright laws do protect musical compositions but only for a limited period of time. Galambos taught that protection of artistic creations should be perpetual.\n\nWhile most would acknowledge Beethoven's intellectual property in the form of his musical compositions, almost everyone would deny that Isaac Newton's discovery and description of the universal law of gravitation is Newton's property. Newton's law of gravitation, as he expounded it, is no less a creation of his mind than Beethoven's 5th symphony. Beethoven created his music by his unique skill in the musical arts of composition, melody, harmony, counterpoint, and orchestration. Newton created his description of the universal law of gravitation by his unique skill in integrating the discoveries of his intellectual antecedents such as Galileo Galilei and Johannes Kepler. Furthermore, in order to work out his theory of gravitation, Newton had to innovate a completely new form of mathematics, the calculus. (Newton's contemporary, Gottfried Leibniz, also developed the calculus independently of Newton.)\n\nGalambos recognized that more than one person could create a specific new idea, including a scientific theory, independently of each other. He allowed for that in course V-201 by innovating a method to determine whether two or more innovators of the same thing are independent of each other.\n\nIn the spirit of his teaching on intellectual property, some of Galambos' students were required to acknowledge a \"proprietary notice\" which asked those students to give credit (both intellectually and financially) for the information gleaned from his courses; later he required that all participants in his lectures sign a non-disclosure agreement to prevent publication of his ideas before he published them himself. Students were allowed to take notes for their private use and most lectures were taped.\n\nGalambos acknowledged and gave credit to antecedent sources such as Thomas Paine's writings, as typified by Common Sense and article 4 of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen – \"4. Liberty consists in the freedom to do everything which injures no one else; hence the exercise of the natural rights of each man has no limits except those which assure to the other members of the society the enjoyment of the same rights. These limits can only be determined by law.\"\n\nGalambos defined government as \"any person or organization that sells services to protect property to which the owner of the property can voluntarily subscribe.\" He described the term \"state\" as any person or organization that claims to protect property by coercing the owner of the property to use and pay for its services, claiming 'legality' as justification. According to these definitions, a government mechanism can be an insurance company that protects an individual's home from criminal activity and casualty loss such as fire or storm damage. A state is any political entity with coercive power, from a municipality to the political organization known as the United States of America.\n\nGalambos explained that the positive version of the Golden Rule (\"Do unto others as you would have them do unto you\") was problematic because it implied that it was acceptable for person A to \"meddle\" in the affairs of another provided person A would likewise appreciate the same thing done \"unto\" him/her. Galambos instead preferred the double negative version of the Golden Rule as the foundation for his philosophy. The double negative version is: \"Do not do unto others as you would not have them do unto you.\" Galambos explained that this version is \"not subject to meddlesome interpretation.\"\n\nEarly in his career Galambos supported Barry Goldwater's candidacy for the Republican nomination as president in 1960. However, as Galambos' understanding of the destruction and violence caused by the political state deepened, he ultimately rejected politics as a means of solving social problems. He instead advocated proprietary, profit-seeking companies as the best means for protection of all forms of property. He supported private property protection and defense, the absolute rights of the owner of private property, and was opposed to political voting and other forms of political activism.\n\nGalambos' first lectures given in 1961 focused on limited government. His early societal models were modified versions of the United States republic, with the addition of the \"Resistor,\" a body empowered to repeal laws passed by Congress if it judged them to be contrary to the Constitution.\"\n\nBeginning around 1963, Galambos modified his lectures as a result of exposure to ideas from several of his contemporaries. \nThrough his student, engineer Charles Estes and others including his colleague Alvin Lowi, Galambos came into contact with the ideas of Robert LeFevre, who advocated the idea that the state was absurd at best, and was actually an enemy of human freedom.\n\nWhereas Galambos highlighted in his lectures the state's abysmal performance in protecting life and property, Peter Bos (a colleague of Lowi who attended FEI lectures) suggested that insurance companies could replace the state in this vital role. Bos and Galambos envisioned a broader concept of insurance than the word implies to most people. In his lectures, Galambos theorized that insurance could include not only reimbursement for loss, but also prevention of loss, detection of individuals who cause loss, and the seeking of restitution from such individuals.\n\nCharles Estes had innovated an idea of restitution-based justice and a private, non-state justice system, to which Galambos was exposed in 1963. By 1964, the idea of restitution-based justice was incorporated firmly into Course V-50. When Alvin Lowi terminated his employment with FEI in 1963, he recommended Jay Stuart Snelson as his substitute. Snelson agreed to lecture for FEI provided the course was amended to incorporate the ideas of LeFevre, Bos, and Estes. \nGalambos eventually agreed. His original philosophy, which was undergoing major changes during that period, was modified to incorporate the respective ideas of LeFevre, Bos, and Estes on the disutility of government, the application of the insurance mechanism for protecting property, and a private-based justice system focused on restitution as opposed to incarceration.\n\nGalambos' teaching was controversial from the outset. The mere idea of a stateless society is controversial because the vast and overwhelming number of people cannot conceive of such a thing. Most believe that regrettable as it may be, coercion in the form of a political state is necessary for peace and security; that a stateless society would degenerate immediately into chaos. Galambos taught that the state was really not a protector of property, but in effect was a protection racket, no different in principle than the mafia or the drug cartels plaguing Mexico, Central America and the United States.\n\nGalambos' idea of according property rights to ideas is controversial. Among the most passionate opponents of this idea are libertarian intellectuals who are aghast at the idea that anyone could limit their access to ideas of others.\n\nIn the 1980s, Galambos was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. He died on April 10, 1997.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47150296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47150296", "title": "Aquatic Conservation: Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems", "text": "Aquatic Conservation: Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems\n\nAquatic Conservation: Marine and Freshwater Ecosystems is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by Wiley-Blackwell. The journal is dedicated to publishing original papers that relate specifically to freshwater, brackish or marine habitats and encouraging work that spans these ecosystems. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 2.136.\n"}
{"id": "13967171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13967171", "title": "Baby bonus", "text": "Baby bonus\n\nA baby bonus is a government payment to parents of a newborn baby or adopted child to assist with the costs of childrearing.\n\nThe government of Andrew Fisher introduced a baby bonus of £5 per child in late 1912. The bonus was available irrespective of marital status and could also be received by husbands of women who died in childbirth. While Fisher told parliament that the aim was to help mothers in their time of need, the intention was also to increase birth and infant survival rates in the country.\n\nThe baby bonus scheme was reintroduced by the Federal Government of Australia in the 2002 budget was aimed at offsetting the expenses associated with bearing a child. The scheme was also introduced as a means of increasing Australia's fertility rate and to mitigate the effects of Australia's ageing population. In the 2004 budget the bonus was raised from $3,000 effective 1 July 2004 to $12,000 payable in 2007 but indexed to inflation so that in October 2007, the amount receivable per eligible child was $4,133. The bonus was paid in a lump sum to a nominated financial institution. From 1 January 2009 the payment is paid in 13 fortnightly installments. The receivable amount in January 2012 was $5,437. The receivable amount in September 2012 is $5,000 in 13 fortnightly instalments (parents will receive a higher first instalment of $846.20 and 12 fortnightly instalments of $346.15), or if the baby died or was a stillborn, parents may ask for their Baby Bonus to be paid in a lump sum instead of fortnightly instalments.\n\nIn the draft of the 2013 federal budget, the \"baby bonus\" would be slashed from $5,000.00 to $2056.45 as of 1 March 2014. The first newborn child will receive $2056.45, and for every subsequent child thereafter, a limited $1028.15 will be submitted.\n\nA baby bonus was introduced in Canada following the Second World War. A family allowance scheme known as the \"baby bonus\" made regular monthly payments of $5 to $8 to all parents of children under 16.\n\nIn 1988, the Quebec government introduced the \"Allowance for Newborn Children\" that paid up to $8,000 to a family after the birth of a child.\n\nToday, the Canada Child Tax Benefit (CCTB) is one of a number of child and family benefits offered by the government of Canada.\n\nCurrently there is a baby bonus of 13000 CZK (approx. 670 USD) for each first child born to mothers with low income. The mother must be a citizen or permanent resident of the Czech Republic.\n\nCurrently, there is a bonus of €960 (approx. $1,133) for every child born to household with income lower than €26,000 (approx. $30,700), and €1920 (approx. $2,266) for every child born to household with income lower than €7.000 (approx. $8,271).\n\nCurrently, there is a bonus of €405 ($475) for every child in Lithuania.\n\nLuxembourg's baby bonus system is split into three stages, known as \"allocation prénatale\" (prenatal allowance), \"allocation de naissance\" (birth allowance) and \"allocation postnatale\" (postnatal allowance). The allowance is universal and is not means-tested.\n\nThe total allowance amounts to €1,740.09, paid in three sums of €580.03 once each stage is complete.\n\nThe prenatal allowance can be claimed once a woman has undergone 5 obstetric examinations and 1 dental examination.\n\nThe birth allowance can be claimed once a woman has undergone a postnatal gynaecological examination. This way, a woman whose baby is stillborn or dies shortly after birth is still entitled to the first two parts of the baby bonus.\n\nThe postnatal allowance can be claimed once the child has turned 2 years old and has undergone 6 medical examinations with a paediatrician.\n\nIn April 2016, the PiS government, in response to low fertility rates in Poland, introduced the Family 500+ program. For every second child, parents receive 500PLN ($133) monthly until the child turns 18. For example, if a family has three children, they would receive 1000PLN every month until the oldest child turns 18, after which they would receive 500PLN.\n\n, Russia offers 453,026 (USD 9,000) for second and every following child. Amount is indexed annually with inflation. This can only be spent on housing, education, healthcare, or a mother's pension.\n\nBy having two children, a middle-income Singaporean household may receive various incentives which are equivalent to S$166,000. For third and subsequent child, the household will get an additional S$8,000 as Baby Bonus and S$20,000 as Parenthood Tax Rebate.\n\nThe Baby Bonus Scheme (formerly known as Child Development Co-Savings Scheme) was first introduced in Singapore on 1 April 2001, with enhancements made on 1 August 2004, August 2008 and 1 March 2012. The objective of this scheme is to improve on the country's fertility rate by providing cash incentives, with the hope of reducing the financial burden of raising children and thereby encouraging them to have more children. The scheme is consist of two components, Cash Gift and Children Development Account (CDA).\n\nFor Singapore Citizen children born on or after 26 August 2012, the maximum amount of cash gift from the government is S$8,000, which can be spent without any restriction. It is available to each of the first four children.\n\nThe Singapore government contributes a dollar for a dollar matching the amount of savings that parents contribute to their child's savings in the Children Development Account (CDA). The amount is capped at S$6,000 each for the first and second child, and S$12,000 each for the third and fourth child, and S$18,000 each for the fifth and subsequent child. The savings in this account may be used by the child and his/her siblings at the approved institutions for Child Care Centre, Early Intervention Programmes, Healthcare Institutions, Kindergarten, Special Education Centre, Assistive Technology Device Provider, Optical Shop and Pharmacy. With effect from 1 January 2013, the CDA of a child will remain open until the end of the child's 12th year, instead of the current 6th year. To date, the birth rate of Singapore has gone up by 0.2%.\n\nParents can claim the PTR of $5,000 for their 1st child, $10,000 for their second child, and $20,000 per child for all subsequent children. PTR can be used to offset the income tax payable. Any unutilized balance is automatically carried forward to offset the future income tax payable. Any credit balance remaining is not refundable. This rebate may be shared with the spouse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4956615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4956615", "title": "Bernard Narokobi", "text": "Bernard Narokobi\n\nBernard Mullu Narokobi (1943 – March 2010) was a Papua New Guinean politician, jurist, and philosopher. He was serving as the Papua New Guinean High Commissioner to New Zealand prior to his death. Between 1987 and 1997 he represented his Wewak Open Electorate as a Member in the Papua New Guinea's National Parliament. During his time as a Member of Parliament (MP), he served as the Minister for Justice (1988–1992) in the government led by the then Prime Minister Rabbie Namaliu; Agriculture Minister (1992–1994) under the leadership of Prime Minister Sir Julius Chan led government; and Opposition Leader between 1998 and 2002 until he lost his seat to the then Wewak MP Kimson Kare during the 2002 elections. He was displaced as a minister in the Chan government for failing to vote in favour of constitutional reforms in the provincial system of government.\n\nIn April 2009, \"The Guardian\" described him as one of Papua New Guinea's \"living national icons\", along with Michael Somare and Mal Michael.\n\nNarokobi was born around 1943 in Wautogik village, East Sepik Province, Papua New Guinea, to his father Anton (Kukum) Narokobi and mother Maria Mokoi and was the second eldest of five siblings. His siblings were Veronica, Apolonia, Caroline and Camillus. Camillus his younger and only brother is intending to stand for the Wewak Open seat. Camillus is also a lawyer in his own right at the family law firm, Narokobi Lawyers. Narokobi's father Anton was taught by pioneer Catholic missionaries and became one of the early catechists who served the people of Boiken and Dagua villages through teaching the Catholic faith. Narokobi was a widower, having lost his wife Regina to breast cancer in 2007. He had 7 children: Vergil, Daniel, Anna, Justina, Ottonia, Benedine and Regina (twins). His son Vergil is also a lawyer and after completing a bachelor's degree in law with honours at the University of Papua New Guinea, he went on to do his Masters in law at Cambridge University. His daughter Anna has also recently completed her degree in law in Australia.\n\nFew paper records exist of Narokobi's early life, but it appears that he started primary education at around the age of ten or twelve, roughly around 1952. He began school at the Dagua Catholic Mission and then attended Brandi High School in Wewak, East Sepik Province. In 1959 he was taught by Michael Somare who later became the first Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea. From Brandi High School he went on to matriculate at the then Kerevat Senior High School in East New Britain Province, where he met another future Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea, Rabbie Namaliu. In 1966 Narokobi went off to Australia where he undertook a degree in law at the University of Sydney, where he received an LLB in 1972. In that same year he was made a barrister in the New South Wales. Narokobi was amongst the first few Papua New Guineans to receive education abroad. In those days, preparations were underway for Papua New Guinea to gain political independence from Australia. Soon after completing his law degree, Narokobi was recruited to become the Permanent Consultant to the Constitutional Planning Committee that was chaired by his former teacher Michael Somare. Narokobi thus had a personal hand in the writing of what became the Constitution when Papua New Guinea gained independence in 1975.\n\nNarokobi died in March 2010 after a brief illness. Prime Minister Michael Somare paid tribute to him as \"a humble man who dedicated his life to the development of a legal regime that incorporates Melanesian values\".\n\nAfter Papua New Guinea gained independence, Narokobi held several jobs including serving as the legal advisor to the provincial government in his home province, East Sepik, he also worked as a private lawyer, a lecturer in law at the University of Papua New Guinea and had a stint as an acting judge in the Papua New Guinea National and Supreme Courts. He has published a number of papers and articles which are scattered in various journals and several books including \"The Melanesian Way\"; \"Life and Leadership in Melanesia \" and \"Lo Bilong Yumi Yet\" and a short book of fiction entitled \"Two Seasons\".\n\nNarokobi aligned with a team of like minded Papua New Guineans to start their Melanesian Alliance Party. The original founders of this Party include John Momis, John Kaputin and Moi Avei. John Momis was the Deputy Chairman of the Constitutional Planning Committee which recruited Narokobi as their Permanent Consultant. Narokobi became actively involved in politics when he decided to contest the national elections in 1982 where he ran an unsuccessful campaign against his former teacher Michael Somare for the East Sepik Regional Seat. Learning from his failed election in 1982, Narokobi entered Parliament in 1987 after toppling Tony Bais in the Wewak Open Electorate. He enjoyed three terms as the Member for Wewak and was defeated in the 2002 elections. As a lawyer and thinker, Narokobi was a firm believer in human rights, a staunch advocate of Melanesian philosophy and identity, and he supported strongly the call for a free and independent West Papua. He was also a devout and a highly respected member of the Catholic Church in Papua New Guinea.\n\n2. Extract from Bernard Narokobi's \"The Melanesian Way\"\n\n3. Extract from Utula Samana's \"Papua New Guinea: Which Way?\" re. Narokobi's influence\n"}
{"id": "1218284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1218284", "title": "Biopolitics", "text": "Biopolitics\n\nBiopolitics is an intersectional field between biology and politics. It is a political wisdom taking into consideration the administration of life and a locality’s populations as its subject. To quote Foucault, it is ‘to ensure, sustain, and multiply life, to put this life in order.\"\n\nThe term was coined by Rudolf Kjellén, who also coined the term geopolitics, in his 1905 two-volume work \"The Great Powers\". In contemporary US political science studies, usage of the term is mostly divided between a poststructuralist group using the meaning assigned by Michel Foucault (denoting social and political power over life) and another group who uses it to denote studies relating biology and political science.\n\n\nCatastrophes are periodically mobilized as vehicles for historical transformation. European states often found themselves grappling with sociobiological propensities of populations. Mercantilism and capitalist modes of production led to a modern biopolitical approach to famine: the modern state depended on providing a diet sufficient to keep the biological machines of industrial capitalism running. The British developed biopolitics in tandem with colonization to help solidify their control over the Irish. \n\nThe French Third Republic in Western Africa also employed biopolitics in their colonial efforts. The \"fin-de-siecle\" revolution in microbiology and specific developments in public health legislation aided the French. Furthermore, thanks to the germ theory of disease pioneered by Robert Koch and Louis Pasteur, the etiology of some of the most deadly diseases—cholera and typhoid—began to be understood in the 1890s, and the French used this new scientific knowledge in the tropics of West Africa. Illnesses like bubonic plague were isolated, and vectors of malaria and yellow fever were identified for the political purpose of public health. They passed public health laws to introduce up-to-date health standards. The goal was for African subjects to respond in exactly the same way as metropolitan citizens to market incentives and new technologies imposed by a progressive state. Thus, public health was a political concern in the sense that the state hoped citizens would be more productive if they lived longer.\n\nFrench philosopher and social theorist Michel Foucault first discussed his thoughts on biopolitics in his lecture series \"Society Must Be Defended\" given at the Collège de France from 1975 to 1976. Foucault's concept of biopolitics is largely derived from his own notion of biopower, and the extension of state power over both the physical and political bodies of a population. While only mentioned briefly in his \"Society Must Be Defended\" lectures, his notion of the concept of biopolitics (Foucault never invented the concept) has become prominent in social and humanistic sciences.\n\nFoucault described biopolitics as \"a new technology of power...[that] exists at a different level, on a different scale, and [that] has a different bearing area, and makes use of very different instruments.\" More than a disciplinary mechanism, Foucault's biopolitics acts as a control apparatus exerted over a population as a whole or, as Foucault stated, \"a global mass.\" In the years that followed, Foucault continued to develop his notions of the biopolitical in his \"The Birth of Biopolitics\" and \"The Courage of Truth\" lectures. \n\nFoucault gave numerous examples of biopolitical control when he first mentioned the concept in 1976. These examples include \"ratio of births to deaths, the rate of reproduction, the fertility of a population, and so on.\" He contrasted this method of social control with political power in the Middle Ages. Whereas in the Middle Ages pandemics made death a permanent and perpetual part of life, this was then shifted around the end of the 18th century with the introduction of milieu into the biological sciences. Foucault then gives different contrasts to the then physical sciences in which the industrialisation of the population was coming to the fore through the concept of work, where Foucault then argues power starts to become a target for this milieu by the 17th century. The development of vaccines and medicines dealing with public hygiene allowed death to be held (and/or withheld) from certain populations. This was the introduction of \"more subtle, more rational mechanisms: insurance, individual and collective savings, safety measures, and so on.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56208156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56208156", "title": "Bonaventura Radonić", "text": "Bonaventura Radonić\n\nBonaventura Radonić (12 February 1888 - 1945) was a Croatian Franciscan, philosopher, Catholic priest and professor. He was executed by Yugoslav Partisans in 1945.\n\nHe was born in Kotezi in Vrgorac on 12 February 1888. He attended classical gymnasium in Sinj and studied philosophy in Šibenik. He attended novitiate on Visovac island and was ordained in 1914. Two years later, he went in Innsbruck and Fribourg to further his education, after which he became a high school teacher in Sinj.\n\nFrom 1936 to 1944 he was theology professor in Makarska. He was supporter of Croatian Peasant Party. In 1944 he went to Zagreb. Following the fall of Independent State of Croatia, he sought refuge in Slovenia and Austria, where soldiers of British Army returned him back in Slovenia. He was hidding in Maribor alongside group of franciscans in local franciscan monastery. He was soon uncovered and Yugoslav Partisan imprisoned him in Zagreb. On 9 July 1945 he was sentenced to the death penalty.\n"}
{"id": "1079121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1079121", "title": "Borden Parker Bowne", "text": "Borden Parker Bowne\n\nBorden Parker Bowne (; January 14, 1847April 1, 1910) was an American Christian philosopher, preacher, and theologian in the Methodist tradition. \nHe was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature nine times.\n\nIn 1876 he became a professor of philosophy at Boston University, where he taught for more than thirty years. He later served as dean of the graduate school. Bowne was an acute critic of mechanistic determinism, positivism, and naturalism. He categorized his views as Kantianized Berkeleyanism, transcendental empiricism and, finally, personalism, a philosophical branch of liberal theology: of this branch Bowne is the dominant figure; this personalism is sometimes called Boston Personalism, in contrast with the California Personalism of George Holmes Howison. Bowne's masterpiece, \"Metaphysics\", appeared in 1882. Bowne was chiefly influenced by Hermann Lotze.\n\nBowne has influenced philosophy in various ways. For instance, there has been a direct line of personalists from Bowne through his student, Edgar Sheffield Brightman (1884-1954), through Brightman's student, Peter Anthony Bertocci (19101989), to Bertocci's student, Thomas O. Buford (b. 1932).\n\nThere has also been a more general influence, as with Martin Luther King, Jr., who studied at Boston University, and spoke in his \"Stride toward Freedom\" of having gained \"a metaphysical basis for the dignity and worth of all human personality.\"\n\nBowne received nine nominations for the Nobel Prize in Literature between 1906 and 1909—one from his own sister.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6139494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6139494", "title": "Bridge ethics", "text": "Bridge ethics\n\nContract bridge can be a friendly, informal social game, or a highly competitive mind-sport when in formal club or tournament play. The rules require players to conduct themselves ethically and to be courteous at all times. The rules of the game and expectations for ethical play are codified in the official Laws of Duplicate Contract Bridge and its published interpretations; the rules define which actions at the table are and are not permitted and remedies for rule infractions and irregularities. Players are expected to respect the norms of social courtesy and behavior; duplicate bridge sponsoring organizations (clubs, regional, national, zonal and world organizations) can define additional standards for player's conduct, including the penalties for violation of personal conduct such as rudeness and other breaches of discipline not covered by applicable civil laws. Some aspects of the rules may be interpreted more strictly in a high-level tournament than in an informal social game.\n\nThe following aspects of conduct in game play are covered in the Laws of Duplicate Contract Bridge.\n\n\"Any contestant remaining at a table throughout a session is primarily responsible for maintaining proper conditions of play at the table. (Law 7D)\"\n\nThe Tournament director's powers, duties and responsibilities are defined under laws 81 - 93. As the official representative of the Tournament Organiser he is responsible for managing the tournament and applying the Laws applicable to it. His duties (under Law 81) include:\n\n\nLaw 81 also states: \"The Director (not the players) has the responsibility for rectifying irregularities and redressing damage\".\n\n\"Unless prohibited by Law, any player may call attention to an irregularity during the auction, whether or not it is his turn to call.\" (the dummy is subject to restrictions to this rule during play) and \"The Director must be summoned at once when attention is drawn to an irregularity.\". A player does not generally have to draw attention to an irregularity committed by their side (Laws 9A4 and 72B2) but must not attempt to conceal an infraction (Law 72B3)\n\nLaw 73B2 states: \"The gravest possible offence is for a partnership to exchange information through pre-arranged methods of communication other than those sanctioned in these laws.\"\n\nThere have been several instances of bridge players found or accused of cheating in high-level tournaments, including in world championships.\n\nPlayers are expected to bid and play \"in tempo\", i.e. without undue haste or delay. Occasionally, in more complex situations, a player may need more time to consider one's bid or play options, but players may not draw inferences based on their partner's break in tempo; doing so may draw a penalty. (see example below)\n\nIn duplicate play, \"stop\" cards are commonly used during auctions to notify the opponents of a skip bid. After the bid is made, the next player is expected to wait 10 seconds before bidding. A quick Pass after an opponent opens the bidding with 2, for example, strongly implies a lack of card values.\n\n\nIf misinformation is provided (whether inadvertently or not) and not corrected then a pair may be afforded restitution by the Tournament Director. The assumed declarer or dummy should give the correct explanation at the end of the auction but before the opening lead is faced up. (When the Tournament Director can give the last defender a chance to make another bid and the auction may continue). Defenders may not correct misinformation until the end of the play of the hand (to do so earlier would give unauthorized information to their partner)\n\nLaw 16 states that \"Players are authorized to base their calls and plays on information from legal calls and plays and from mannerisms of opponents. To base a call or play on other extraneous information may be an infraction of law.\"\n\n\"When a player accidentally receives unauthorized information about a board he is playing or has yet to play, as by looking at the wrong hand; by overhearing calls, results or remarks; by seeing cards at another table; or by seeing a card belonging to another player at his own table before the auction begins, the Director should be notified forthwith, preferably by the recipient of the information. If the Director considers that the information could interfere with normal play, he may:\n\n\nLaw 74 deals with a correct attitude (courteous and avoid annoying other players), etiquette (e.g. paying attention, not making gratuitous remarks) and violations of procedure (e.g. boasting about success, varying tempo to disconcert opponents, trying to look at opponent's cards or where they played the card from in the hand).\n\nA contestant or his captain may appeal for a review of any ruling made at his table by a Director. Any such request if deemed to lack merit may be subject to an additional sanction imposed by Regulation. (Law 92A) It is common practice for a side seeking an appeal to have to make a pecuniary deposit, which will be refunded if the appeal has merit (even if it is lost), and a side instigating an appeal without merit may also have their score reduced.\n\nSuch an appeal is normally held by an Appeals committee (usually 3 experienced players) by a Referee (A single experienced player) or by the Director in Charge. Tournament Directors, who make the first ruling, are not necessarily (or even usually), world-class bridge players, and the additional experience of an Appeals committee provides security that a correct ruling is made.\n\nThe Appeal committee may not overrule the Director in charge on a point of law, regulation or on disciplinary matters (but may recommend a change of ruling) (Law 93B3). Thus most Appeals deal with 'judgement' decisions - the use of unauthorised information (Law 16B), the effect of misinformation (Law 21), or when a claim for a certain number of tricks is disputed (Law 70).\n\nIn some bridge tournaments, players may first approach an official 'screener', who will take details and advise them, based on that information, if they may have possible grounds for an appeal. This does not affect a contestant's right to an appeal; however, it helps ensure that the Appeal committee hear appropriate cases.\n\nNorth - opens the bidding with '1 Heart'\nEast - overcalls by bidding '1 Spade'\nSouth - responds by bidding '2 hearts'\nWest - makes a bid of '4 Spades'\n\nThis bid by West, because it has raised the level of the auction by more than 1 (from 2 hearts to 4 spades), is known as a 'jump bid' and most regulating authorities require him to either say 'Stop' or place the 'Stop card' on the table from the 'bidding box'. North is then required to pause for 10 seconds before making their next call (this gives him time to adjust and reconsider his action).\n\nNorth - immediately passes i.e. does not wait for the 10 seconds.\n\nThis, of itself, is not an infraction; however, it does communicate that North has a relatively weak hand and does not wish to do anything over the 4 spade call. This additional information communicated is 'unauthorised information' and South must \"carefully avoid taking advantage\" from this information (Law 73C1)\n\nEast and South both 'pass' (this finishes the Auction) - and when the hand is played, East makes 10 tricks (i.e. his contract)\n\nIt turns out that South held 2 Aces in his hand. Since it was found that \"a significant proportion of the class of players in question, using the methods of the partnership\" (Law 16B1b) would have doubled the final contract (the double is described as a 'logical alternative') and that South's 'pass' was 'demonstrably suggested' (Law 16B1a) by the fast pass by North, the final contract was changed to '4 spades doubled', making 10 tricks (which scores more for East-West)\n\nNorth - opens the bidding with '1 - Heart'\nEast - (holding a hand with 3 spades, 1 heart, 2 diamonds and 7 clubs) - bids '3 - clubs'\n\nHowever East-West are playing a convention that the actual meaning of this bid is that it shows Spades and Diamonds. West promptly alerts the bid (because it has an unexpected meaning) and, when asked, provides the correct explanation - this explanation is unauthorised information to East, who must not make use of it during the auction (or play). Note that the mis-bid by East is not an infraction.\n\nSouth - passes\nWest - bids '3-Spades'\n\nWest is actually only giving suit preference (he prefers Spades to Diamonds) however East must regard the bid as being natural (to East, he has shown clubs and partner has a spade suit and the strength to bid over the 3-club bid)\n\nNorth - passes\nEast - bids '4-spades'\n\nWith 3 card support and a ruffing value, East's hand is better than it might be and so 'carefully avoiding taking advantage of the information' he has, he raises to game.\n\nSouth (who held 5 spades) then doubled (and three passes followed).\n\nEast has behaved ethically throughout the auction (West had no unathorised information). The result of his ethics is that East-West incurred an enormous penalty. An unethical East might have rebid his clubs (such a rebid is sometimes known as 'unauthorised panic') hoping that West might realise that the club bid was natural. In such a situation a Director is likely to change the result of the hand to '4-spades doubled' and, since the club rebid was a deliberate attempt to take advantage of the unauthorised information, impose an additional penalty (Law 72C2).\n\n"}
{"id": "744391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=744391", "title": "Christopher Jacob Boström", "text": "Christopher Jacob Boström\n\nChristopher Jacob Boström (1 January 1797 in Piteå, Norrbotten – 22 March 1866 in Uppsala) was a Swedish philosopher. His ideas dominated Swedish philosophy until the beginning of the twentieth century. He also had a great influence on Swedish cultural life.\n\nAs a student he briefly studied theology, and religion remained his primary interest throughout his life.\n\nMost of his life was spent teaching at Uppsala University, where he received the appointment in 1838 of adjunct professor of philosophy and from 1840–63 was professor of practical philosophy. He was the teacher and mentor of Johan Jakob Borelius. For four years, he tutored the royal family in Stockholm. There he was charged with the education of the crown prince, later Oscar II of Sweden.\n\nAccording to Richard Falckenberg, he was “the most important systematic thinker of his country.” His philosophy, that of “rational idealism” as he termed it, exercised great influence in Sweden.\n\nReality is presented only as spiritual: God as an absolute, self-conscious unity, in which all living beings are eternally and unchangeably contained, according to degree. The highest aim of humanity should be the conduct and behavior according to reason in harmony with the Divine; that of the state, like the individual should exist solely in God, and in its most perfect form should consist in the harmonious obedience of all its members to a constitutional monarch; while ultimate perfection should be an all-embracing system of such states governed in obedience to Universal Reason.\n\nAccording to the philosophy of Boström, true philosophy is such knowledge or awareness that is complete with respect to form, content and extent, and thus identical to God's own omniscience. Philosophy insofar as human beings can attain it, however, is identical to human awareness, insofar as it partakes of this divine omniscience: it is man's fully clear and distinct (formally perfect) awareness of true, absolute divine reality. The first task of philosophical science must be to produce the most general concepts whereby to define absolute reality. The character of Boström's philosophy depends on the manner in which he solved this task.\n\nPersonally, Boström characterizes his pholosophy as the consistent execution of the principle of rational idealism—i.e., the principle of that \"världsåsikt\" (worldview or metaphysics) according to which absolute reality is free from all the imperfections of spatiotemporal existence (finitude, divisibility, transience, change). As such, it is spiritual, eternal and, in and through its own non-sensual content, and not through shifting and imperfect determinations, completely determined or completely real.\n\nBoström claims Plato as the source of these metaphysical presuppositions. Boström interprets Plato as having conceived a limited precursor of his own philosophy, constricted by his Paganism. In Plato, the ideas constitute the absolute, whereas Boström stresses the need to move beyond the ideas to that being whose sensations they are. Boström takes himself to show that all spiritual reality necessarily refers to self-consciousness as its principle, and he maintains that true reality is personal and hence that philosophy is the science of personal beings as such, since some such thing as pure self-consciousness only exists in the abstract, whereas everything real is individual or fully determined self-consciousness (consciousness of something), or in other words, sensational being or person. Philosophy can deal with an impressional reality only insofar as this reality is conceived as a determination (sensation) for a personal being and is explained through it.\n\nWith respect to the various ways in which these beings are conceived as existing for men and determining their activities, Boström divides philosophy into theoretical philosophy, the science of these beings conceived as determining man's theoretical faculty, i.e., conceived as in every respect true and original being; and practical philosophy, the science of these beings conceived as determining the practical faculty, or will, of man, i.e., conceived as that which unconditionally and under all circumstances ought to be. According to the different kinds of personal beings that are known to us, theoretical philosophy is further divided into speculative theology, speculative ethnology and speculative anthropology; practical philosophy into philosophy of religion, philosophy of law and ethics, corresponding to the terms of the division of theoretical philosophy\n\nIn speculative theology, the science of the absolute person, or God, Boström gives a more detailed justification of the principle of his system. There, it is first of all maintained that independent reality necessarily must be spiritual (or, as we would say today, mental), and as such an independent consciousness or self-consciousness. This is the only thing that is simple. Since the complex presupposes the simple, self-consciousness must also be the ultimate principle of all reality. This self-consciousness — which Boström identifies with life—can thus not be conceived as attached to a substrate or a substance, but is precisely what is primary and original in everything.\n\nBoström further accounts for the factors that constitute individual self-consciousness or the person. I contrast to the Hegelian notion of an original abstract, empty self-consciousness which, through sensible reality, actualizes itself into a fully conscious and determined (concrete) spirit, Boström maintains that the absolute person is primordial and eternally fully determined. It has its sensations fully present to itself, and does not require for its perfect determination an imperfect world. There exists no exclusion or contradiction among the sensations or ideas of God, but there is complete accord among them, so that it is impossible to conceive perfectly either of God or of any of His ideas without also conceiving the others perfectly. Boström has thereby shown that absolute reality is an absolute system, a spiritual organism in the strongest sense of the term.\n\nSince in every organism, the organs must possess the character of the whole, it follows that Gods ideas are also personal or perceiving beings. Although these beings in and for God, \"qua\" his organs, are absolutely perfect, in and for themselves, \"qua\" perceiving beings, they possess a certain imperfection, precisely since they do not have their true life and self-consciousness in themselves, but in God. Therefore, true reality, God's reality without which nothing exists, is presented to them in a lower form, as a world of phenomena specific to each and every one of them. Conceived with respect to these beings, God is on the one hand more than all of them put together or some aspect or attribute common to all of them; he is an independent and fully concrete being. On the other hand, He is also — due to the perfect organic coherence that obtains in the absolute world — fully present in them, without in the least obstructing their independent life. Thereby, the contradiction between finite and infinite is resolved.\n\nThe infinite is present in the finite, while fully preserving its infinitude (and thus not through any \"anderssein\" or similar). God is simultaneously transcendent and an immanent ground for the finite world, and in so far as this world, \"qua\" finite, is undergoing a developmental process, he is the foundation, law and endpoint of this development, the creator and maintainer of the finite world, its providence and salvation. In relation to this, Boström develops a teodicé where he teaches that all imperfection and all evil depends entirely on finite beings, whereas God, as a perfect being, cannot be the ground of anything but the eternal life and salvation of these lesser beings.\n\nHis major work was \"Philosophy of Religion\".\nHis writings, comparatively few in number, edited by Edfelt, were published at Upsala in 1883.\n\nHe was the paternal uncle of Erik Gustaf Boström.\n"}
{"id": "41668639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41668639", "title": "Common Ground Project", "text": "Common Ground Project\n\nThe Common Ground between Islam and Buddhism project is an interfaith initiative originated by the Dalai Lama and Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad of Jordan. These two were joined by a panel of select scholars, and the project was officially launched on May 12, 2010, in Bloomington, Indiana, US. The project is based on the book \"Common Ground between Islam and Buddhism\", by Reza Shah-Kazemi, who together with Ingrid Mattson and Eboo Patel was part of the scholars’ panel convened for the Bloomington event.\n\nOn May 2010, the Dalai Lama was in Bloomington giving a teaching on the Buddhist Heart Sutra. As previously arranged, partly through the mediation of Fons Vitae (publishers in Louisville, Kentucky), he took time out to meet with a small group of Muslim and interfaith leaders to launch the new book, and the new initiative.\n\nIn his foreword to the book, the Dalai Lama writes, “This is an important and pioneering book, which seeks to find common ground between the teachings of Islam and of Buddhism. It is my hope that on the basis of this common ground, followers of each tradition may come to appreciate the spiritual truths their different paths entail and from this develop a basis for respect for each other's practice and beliefs. This may not have occurred very often before, because there has been so little opportunity for real understanding between these two great traditions. This book attempts to set that right.”\n\nSections of the book include, among others, the following: “The Buddha as Messenger”, “Oneness: The Highest Common Denominator”, “\"Shūnya\" and \"Shahāda\"”, “Detachment: \"Anicca\" and \"Zuhd\"”, “The ‘god’ of Desire\" and “The Common Ground of Sanctity”.\n\nApart from notes in the Washington Post, local press and some Buddhist journals, and in spite of the involvement of international leaders like the Dalai Lama and Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad, this project was and has remained practically ignored by the media.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54201777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54201777", "title": "Disinformation (book)", "text": "Disinformation (book)\n\nDisinformation: Former Spy Chief Reveals Secret Strategies for Undermining Freedom, Attacking Religion, and Promoting Terrorism is a non-fiction book about disinformation tactics and history rooted in information warfare. It was written by former three-star general in the Securitate, the secret police of Communist Romania, Ion Mihai Pacepa, and law professor Ronald J. Rychlak. It was published in 2013 along with a companion film, \"Disinformation: The Secret Strategy to Destroy the West\".\n\nPacepa and Rychlak document how the Russian word \"dezinformatsiya\" was coined by Joseph Stalin, who chose a French-sounding title to make others believe it had originated in the Western world. Disinformation was then subsequently employed as a warfare tactic by the Stalinist government during World War II and afterwards by the Soviet Union during the Cold War. Pacepa recounts reading Soviet intelligence training manuals describing the inspiration of such deception rooted in the history of Potemkin villages. The authors describe disinformation campaigns used in the 20th century, including case studies of how historical revisionism spread through the media.\n\nAfter its initial publication, the book was re-published in multiple languages including Romanian, Polish, Russian, and Czech. It was included as recommended reading for officers of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and incorporated into a college study guide format and one of the required readings in a graduate-level course for Liberty University.\n\n\"Disinformation\" received a favorable reception from: the CIA-published academic journal \"Studies in Intelligence\", former Director of Central Intelligence R. James Woolsey, \"The Counter Terrorist\", political commentator Glenn Beck, and a separate review in \"TheBlaze\" which called it: \"vital reading for anyone concerned with our culture, economy, defense, and ultimately survival as a nation.\" The book garnered positive reviews from \"Tablet\"  and \"Distracted Masses\", and was used as a resource by \"The Washington Post\". \"Movieguide\" gave the film companion to the book a strong recommendation, calling it a \"brilliant expose\".\n\nThe book is mostly written in a single person eyewitness narrative form, as a memoir of a former Romanian official and co-author Pacepa. It includes a discussion of the disinformation campaigns throughout the 20th century and analyze them while attempting to answer questions regarding history and religion. Pacepa describes the origins of the word \"disinformation\", writing that it was coined by Joseph Stalin. The Stalinist government utilized disinformation tactics in both World War II and the Cold War. Pacepa writes that Stalin gave the tactic a French-sounding title, \"dezinformatsiya\" in Russian, in order to put forth the ruse that it was actually a technique used by the Western world.\n\nPacepa recounts reading Soviet instruction manuals while working as an intelligence officer, that characterized disinformation as a strategy utilized by the Russian government that had early origins in Russian history. Pacepa recalls that the Soviet manuals said origins of disinformation stemmed from phony towns constructed by Grigory Potyomkin in Crimea to impress Catherine the Great during her 1783 journey to the region—subsequently referred to as Potemkin villages.\n\nThe authors describe disinformation and posit that it played a role in the criticism of Christianity in the Western world. They discuss the role of disinformation with regards to fomenting Islamic terrorism against Jewish and American targets, exploiting the historic anti-Semitic sentiments in the Islamic world. Pacepa and Rychlak place burgeoning support for Marxism within the North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries and the United States as related to disinformation campaigns.\n\nThey argue that disinformation campaigns are ultimately successful when they fool the mainstream media into publicizing deliberate falsehoods, and the consumers of such media then eventually believe these claims are accurate. They write that media bias in the United States increased the susceptibility of the public to internalizing disinformation and historical revisionism.\n\nPacepa and Rychlak write that Soviet Union intelligence services used 4,000 espionage specialists within the Muslim world in order to stoke political unease towards Israel and the United States. They document a disinformation campaign led by the KGB whose goal was to spread government dissension by U.S. citizens during the Vietnam War. The authors describe manipulation from within the World Council of Churches by the Foreign Intelligence Service. They recount how disinformation campaigns came to play a role in the John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories regarding beliefs of involvement by American officials.\n\n\"Disinformation\" author Ion Mihai Pacepa was a former senior official from the Romanian secret police. Pacepa held the three-star rank of lieutenant general and was the highest-ranking defector to the United States from an enemy intelligence agency. He was commander of Romanian foreign intelligence during its communist era, and was involved in key military events throughout the Cold War. He was also a personal adviser to Romanian leader Nicolae Ceaușescu, and accompanied the head of state on all trips abroad. Pacepa defected to the United States in 1978. After this defection, Ceaușescu, Muammar Gaddafi, and Yasser Arafat each offered a reward of US$1 million for the death of Pacepa, and they tried to contract assassin Carlos the Jackal. Romania's High Court of Cassation and Justice removed Pacepa's death sentence in 1999, and the country restored his rank of general in 2004.\n\nPacepa co-authored the book with law professor Ronald J. Rychlak. Rychlak received his bachelor's degree from Wabash College and his Juris Doctor from Vanderbilt University. After graduating law school, Rychlak worked as an attorney with Jenner & Block in Chicago. Subsequently, he served as a law clerk on the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit for Senior Judge Harry W. Wellford. Rychlak has taught at the University of Mississippi School of Law in the faculty position of Mississippi Defense Lawyers Association Professor of Law, and also worked as associate dean of academic affairs at the institution. He has served as an adviser for the United Nations representation of the Holy See. Rychlak authored books, \"Hitler, the War, and the Pope\" and \"Environmental Law: Thompson Reuters Law for the Layperson Series\".\n\nThe book was first published by WND Books in 2013. The companion film in DVD release, \"Disinformation: The Secret Strategy to Destroy the West\", was published the same year. The book was published in Romanian and Polish in 2015, and Russian and Czech in 2016. An English-language audiobook was published by Audible Studios in 2016.\n\n\"Disinformation\" was included as recommended reading for officers of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in \"Intelligence Officer's Bookshelf\", an article in the series \"Intelligence in Public Literature\" for CIA-published academic journal \"Studies in Intelligence\". Liberty University made a study guide for the book for its 2013–14 college session, and incorporated it as required reading in a 2015–16 graduate-level course. In \"Studies in Intelligence\", the book was reviewed positively, with the conclusion: \"\"Disinformation\" is a provocative book that presents the dangers of officially manipulated information and urges that measures be taken to prevent its use in America.\"\n\nFormer Director of Central Intelligence R. James Woolsey wrote: \"Gen. Pacepa writes that there were more in the Soviet bloc working on \"dezinformatsiya\" than in the armed forces and defense industry!\" He praised the authors' ability to convey the historical context of disinformation campaigns and their advice on how to address such covert operations. Writing for \"The Counter Terrorist\", magazine editor and former anti-terrorism unit commander Chris Graham wrote that Pacepa's description of deceptive intelligence operations conducted by Vladimir Putin reflected the breadth of disinformation campaigns required to hold onto authoritarian rule in Russia. Political commentator Glenn Beck favorably reviewed the book in a video segment, and said: \"I highly recommend it. It will change the way you look at truth.\" In a positive review for \"TheBlaze\", Benjamin Weingarten called the book a tale of the intelligence tactic called the \"big lie\", calling the book: \"vital reading\" for those tasked with defense of U.S. interests.\n\nKenneth R. Timmerman wrote for \"Tablet\" magazine: \"Henry Kissinger once playfully dismissed critics who accused him of paranoia. 'Even a paranoid can have enemies,' he quipped to \"Time\". Reading \"Disinformation\" will open one's eyes to those enemies.\" Scott Albright reviewed the book for the journal \"Distracted Masses\" and wrote: \"What's so shocking about what Pacepa writes is the incredible lengths to which the Russians would go to cover up their own operations and discredit their enemies in the Vatican and the U.S. government.\" Adam Taylor wrote for \"The Washington Post\" the irony that regarding Pacepa's recollection of the inspiration of disinformation stemming originally from Potemkin villages, there was some doubt as to the actual existence of such villages, and yet nevertheless the term Potemkin village had itself become influential over time. \"Movieguide\" gave the companion film to the book a positive review, writing: \"\"Disinformation\" is a brilliant expose of the mendacious communist strategy to destroy the West, from a top insider in the Soviet Union's Eastern European security forces in Romania who defected. \"Disinformation\" is highly recommended viewing for every concerned American.\"\n\nVictor Gaetan in his review of the book for the \"National Catholic Register\" criticizes some of Pacepa's story. He states that the story misrepresents the life of a legendary Vatican diplomat and defames him. He also states that it misrepresents the history of interaction between the Catholic and Russian Orthodox institutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30047981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047981", "title": "Faith (name)", "text": "Faith (name)\n\nFaith is an English feminine given name derived from the word \"faith.\" It became popularized when the Puritans began using it as a virtue name during the 17th century. Puritans also used Faith as part of longer phrase names, such as Be-faithful, Faithful, Faith-my-joy, and Fight-the-good-fight-of-faith.\n\nThe name is also the usual English translation of the Greek name of Saint Faith, an early Christian child martyr who was tortured to death along with her sisters Hope and Charity. She is known as Pistis in Greek and Fides in Church Latin and her name is translated differently in other languages. \n\nFaith, Hope and Charity, the three theological virtues, are names traditionally given to triplet girls, just as Faith and Hope remain common names for twin girls. There were 40 sets of twins named Faith and Hope born in the United States in 2009, the second most common name combination for twin girls. In 2011, there were 33 sets of twin girls named Faith and Hope in the United States, the fourth most common name combination for twins. One example were the American triplets Faith, Hope and Charity Cardwell, who were born in 1899 in Texas and were recognized in 1994 by the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's longest lived triplets.\n\nFaith has been a consistently popular name for girls in the United States, ranking among the top 1,000 names since 1880 and the top 500 names since 1921. It has ranked among the top 100 names in the United States since 1999 and was ranked as the 71st most popular name for newborn girls in 2011.\n\nOther cultures also give names in reference to religious faith. The name Iman is used by Muslims for both boys and girls in reference to faith in Islam.\n"}
{"id": "17945221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17945221", "title": "Five Ranks", "text": "Five Ranks\n\nThe Five Ranks (; ) is a poem consisting of five stanzas describing the stages of realization in the practice of Zen Buddhism. It expresses the interplay of absolute and relative truth and the fundamental non-dualism of Buddhist teaching.\n\nThe ranks are referenced in the Song of the Precious Mirror Samadhi. This work is attributed to the Chinese monk Dongshan Liangjie (Japanese: Tōzan Ryōkan), who lived during the end of Tang Dynasty, as well as two sets of verse commentaries by him. The teachings of the Five Ranks may be inspired by the Sandokai, a poem attributed to Shitou Xiqian (traditional Chinese: 石頭希遷).\n\nThe work is highly significant in both the Caodong/Sōtō and Linji/Rinzai schools of Zen that exist today. Eihei Dogen, the founder of the Japanese Sōtō School, references the Five Ranks in the first paragraph of one of his most widely studied works, Genjōkōan. Hakuin integrated the Five Ranks in his system of koan-teaching.\n\nThe Five Ranks are listed below with two translations of the original poem, one by Miura and Sasaki on the left, and the other by Thomas Cleary on the right, followed by commentary and analysis:\n\nThis rank describes the Absolute, insight into the empty nature or not-\"thing\"-ness of everything. The scholar Heinrich Dumoulin describes the first rank as the realization that \"all diverse things and events are in their essence the same, formless and empty. Emptiness is undisturbed by any subjective element\". According to Hakuin, this rank is only the beginning of Zen insight, but it can become a trapping for people who take the absolute to be the end-station: \"Although inside and out may be perfectly clear as long as you are hidden away in an unfrequented place where there is absolute quiet and nothing to do, yet you are powerless as soon as perception touches upon different worldly situations, with all their clamor and emotion, and you are beset by a plethora of miseries\".\n\nThe second rank describes the recognition of the Absolute within \"the midst of the variety of different situations in action; you see everything before your eyes as your own original true clean face, just as if you were looking at your face in the mirror\". That is, unlike the insight of the first rank, which can be easily disturbed, the second rank has greater constancy in the face of distractions. However, seeing the absolute within the relative does not extend to one's behavior towards others. Hakuin describes that at this point one \"is neither conversant with the deportment of the bodhisattva, nor does he understand the causal conditions for a Buddha-land. Although he has a clear understanding of the Universal and True Wisdom, he cannot cause to shine forth the Marvelous Wisdom that comprehends the unobstructed interpenetration of the manifold dharmas.\"\n\nThis rank describes enlightened behaviour: \"Enlightened beings do not dwell in the state of result they have realized; from the ocean of effortlessness, they radiate unconditional compassion\".\n\nThe fourth rank describes \"the bodhisattva of indomitable spirit\" who \"go into the marketplace extending their hands, acting for others\". It is powerful enlightened behaviour. \"This is what is called being on the road without leaving home, leaving home without being on the road. Is this an ordinary person? Is this a sage? Demons and outsiders cannot discern such a person; even Buddhas and Zen masters can do nothing\". But even this \"cannot be considered the place to sit in peace [...] You must know there is another rank, attainment in both\".\n\nThe fifth rank describes \"the mellow maturity of consciousness\". According to Sekida, this rank is described in case 13 of the Mumonkan:\n\nWhen Buddhism was introduced to China, the Two Truths doctrine was a point of confusion. Chinese thinking took this to refer to two \"ontological truths\": reality exists of two modalities. The doctrines of Buddha-nature and Sunyata were understood as akin to Dao and the Taoist non-being. It was centuries later that Chinese Buddhism took Sunyata to mean the underlying unchanging essence of reality, the non-duality of being and non-being.\n\nIn Madhyamaka the Two Truths are two \"epistemological truths\": two different ways to look at reality, a relative truth and an ultimate truth. The Prajnaparamita-sutras and Madhyamaka emphasized the non-duality of form and emptiness: form is emptiness, emptiness is form, as the heart sutra says. The ultimate truth in Madhyamaka is the truth that everything is empty (Sunyata), that which is an underlying unchanging essence. Sunyata itself is also \"empty,\" 'the emptiness of emptiness', which means that \"Sunyata\" itself does not constitute a higher or ultimate \"essence\" or \"reality.\"\n\nBased on their understanding of the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra the Chinese supposed that the teaching of the Buddha-nature was, as stated by that sutra, the final Buddhist teaching, and that there is an essential truth above Sunyata and the Two Truths. The idea that ultimate reality is present within the daily world of relative reality melded well with Chinese culture, which emphasized the mundane world and society. But this does not tell how the absolute is present in the relative world:\nThis question is answered in such schemata as the Five Ranks and the Oxherding Pictures. Various terms are used for \"absolute\" and \"relative.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3455302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3455302", "title": "Genetic discrimination", "text": "Genetic discrimination\n\nGenetic discrimination occurs when people treat others (or are treated) differently because they have or are perceived to have a gene mutation(s) that causes or increases the risk of an inherited disorder. It may also refer to any and all discrimination based on the genotype of a person rather than their individual merits.\n\nSome legal scholars have argued for a more precise and broader definition of genetic discrimination: \"Genetic discrimination should be defined as when an individual is subjected to negative treatment, not as a result of the individual’s physical manifestation of disease or disability, but solely because of the individual’s genetic composition.\"\n\nGenetic Discrimination is considered to have its foundations in genetic determinism and genetic essentialism, and is based on the concept of genism, i.e. distinctive human characteristics and capacities are determined by genes.\n\nGenetic discrimination is illegal in the U.S. after passage of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) on May 21, 2008. It was signed into law by President George W. Bush, and passed in the US Senate by a vote of 49-0 and in the House of Representatives by 414-1. The legislation bars employers from using individuals’ genetic information when making hiring, firing, job placement, or promotion decisions. GINA also protects individuals from genetic discrimination in healthcare, however, GINA itself does not define what genetic information is, leaving it up for debate.\n\nAlthough it was passed in 2008 there were 201 cases that cited GINA in 2010 and 333 in 2014. It wasn’t until 2013 that a company actually faced penalties under GINA.\n\nIn 2008, \"The New York Times\" reported that some individuals avoid genetic testing out of fear that it will would impede their ability to purchase insurance or find a job. They also reported that evidence of actual discrimination was rare. In November 2016 insurance company GWG Life was found to be collecting saliva samples in order to offer lower rates to people who are epigenetically healthier than others of their age. While this is positive discrimination, this does suggest future potential classification of clients by genetic data.\n\nWhile the 2008 GINA Act does protect against genetic discrimination pertaining to health insurance, it does not protect against genetic discrimination under other forms of insurance, such as life, disability or long-term care insurance. Additionally, 2008 Gina offers no protection for home/mortgage insurance or when an employer has 15 or less employees. Excluded from the Act are also parties  who are covered under Veterans Health Administration or Indian Health Services. Because a variety of medical tests serve as proxies for genetic information, proponents of insurer access to genetic information argue that it does not require specific limiting legislation.\n\nDirect-to-consumer genetic testing was first offered in 1997 by GeneTree, a now defunct family history website. These tests are easily accessible on the market and popularized by companies such as 23andMe and Ancestry.com. These genetic kits are expensive and disproportionately serve wealthy individuals. As a result, when the data collected from testing is sold to research companies, it represents a biased sample of the population. The Food and Drug Administration additionally halted all 23andMe marketing in 2013 over unsubstantiated claims 23andMe made regarding disease diagnosis and prevention. The firm was allowed to continue sales after it stopped providing health information to customers.\n\nOn May 4, 2017, Bill S-201, the Genetic Non-Discrimination Act, received Royal Assent and became law in Canada. Despite government opposition in the House of Commons, it survived the lower house by the support of backbench Liberals and the totality of the Conservative, NDP and Green Party MPs. The Genetic Non-Discrimination Act makes it a crime for anyone to require an individual to undergo genetic testing as a condition for the provision of goods or services, or as a condition for entering or continuing a contract. The Act also forbids anyone from refusing to enter into a goods or services agreement with another person on the grounds that that person has refused to disclose the results of an already completed genetic test. One who contravenes these prohibitions is liable to being fined (up to $1 million) and/or imprisoned (up to 5 years).\n\nAccordingly, one effect of this legislation will be to prohibit insurance providers from demanding that a prospective client undergo a genetic test - or to disclose an existing test - as a prerequisite to the provision of insurance coverage.\n\nThe Equality Act of 2010 prohibits the use of genetic information for employment decisions such as hiring and promotions. While no formal law exists banning the use of genetic information for insurance policy decisions, the Government of the United Kingdom and the Association of British Insurers voluntarily entered a moratorium from 2014 to 2019 to refrain from using genetic information with regards to insurance.\n\nSome people have genes that make them more susceptible to developing a disease as a result of an occupational exposure. For example, workers with beryllium sensitivity and chronic beryllium disease are more likely to carry the gene HLA-DPB1 than workers without these conditions. By offering optional genetic testing to workers and allowing only the workers to see their own results, employers could protect genetically susceptible individuals from certain occupational diseases. A beryllium manufacturing company initiated a pilot program to test prospective workers for the HLA-DPB1 gene at a university-based laboratory. The company paid for the testing and counseling but received results that did not identify which workers had the gene.\n\nIn 1991, the American Medical Association Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs suggested that the following five conditions must be satisfied in order for genetic screening by an employer to be appropriate:\n\n\nSeveral occupational health screening measures similar to genetic testing are already taking place. For example, in 1978, DuPont reported testing African American applicants for sickle cell trait and restricted these workers from exposure to nitro and amino compounds. However, research indicates that workers or applicants would not take advantage of genetic testing due to fear of discrimination. A 1995 poll of the general public found that over 85% are concerned about access to use of genetic information by insurers and employers. Likewise, in the case of the beryllium manufacturer described above, so few workers participated in the genetic testing that the company decided instead to pursue an “enhanced preventive model of workplace controls.”\n\nWithin the world of gender, women of childbearing age are less likely to be hired because employers want to avoid physiological abnormalities or any other damage to the possible fetus in utero. Individuals with a selected trait are discriminated against for certain activities, such as with sickle cell anemia, as there has to be special care taken due a high risk of dehydration and heat related injury, which could lead to exhaustion, painful episodes, and hip joint problems. This has lead to the belief that some races are superior to others, and Eugenics must take place to prevent the race suicide of the “more fit” races, leading to practices like immigration caps and minimum wage, despite the fact that Eugenics has been proven to decrease the amount of genetic diversity, making it harder for a population to cope with future changes in the environment.\n\n\"Genoism\" is a neologism coined by Andrew Niccol, director and writer of the 1997 film \"Gattaca\", used to describe unethical and illegal genetic discrimination. Predictions of physical and mental performance are computed via genetics from DNA collected from hair, fingernails, skin flakes, spit swabs, eyelashes, etc. Upon birth, a number of genetically-induced characteristics are calculated: physical and intellectual capacity, life expectancy, probable successful diseases, and likely causes of death, all determined via blood samples and genetic testing. Job interviews, health insurance purchasing, and even potential dates can be sized up according to the perceived quality of the person's DNA due to advancements in genome sequencing. This put an ironic twist to Darwin's sexual selection for good genes. According to the movie, \"We now have discrimination down to a science.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36197425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36197425", "title": "George Young (surgeon)", "text": "George Young (surgeon)\n\nGeorge Young (1692–1757) was an Edinburgh surgeon, physician, philosopher and empiric. As a young man he was a member of the Rankenian Club, a group of intellectuals who were to go on to become some of the most influential figures of the Scottish Enlightenment. Young's lecture notes (1730–31) give a clear account of contemporary medical and surgical practice and are characterised by the empirical approach to the advancement of medical knowledge, especially in the evolving understanding of nerve and muscle function. His \"Treatise on Opium\" (1753) was a practical guide for physicians in the use of the drug which emphasises its complications. It was the longest, most balanced and most comprehensive English language account written yet written. Young's legacy is also apparent in the work of his pupil Robert Whytt (1714–1766) and his surgical apprentice James Hill (1703–1776). Young had taught both the value of repeated observation and a sceptical approach to prevailing dogma. Whytt was to advance knowledge of nerve and muscle function while Hill went on to make important contributions to the understanding and management of head injury.\n\nYoung was born in Edinburgh in 1692. On 14 March 1711 he was apprenticed to the Edinburgh surgeon-apothecary Alexander Simpson. In July 1719 he passed the entrance examination for the Incorporation of Surgeons of Edinburgh, becoming a freeman or fellow. Around this time he joined the Rankenian Club, and was the only surgeon known to have done so.\nThe Rankenian was regarded as one of the most important of the many learned clubs and societies which were a defining feature of the Scottish Enlightenment. The Scots Magazine in May 1771 reckoned that \"the Rankenians were highly instrumental in disseminating throughout Scotland freedom of thought, boldness of disquisition, liberality of sentiment, accuracy of reasoning, correctness of taste and accuracy of composition.\" Its members were to become major figures of the Scottish Enlightenment\n\nYoung worked as surgeon-apothecary in Edinburgh from about 1720, and between then and 1754 trained twelve surgical apprentices. Yet he was atrracted to a career as a physician and to qualify as such he applied for, and on 21 June 1736 was awarded, the degree of MD (St Andrews) \"in absentia\" \nThe next year he successfully applied to become a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh (RCPE).\n\nIn 1730–31 Young delivered lectures in Edinburgh on medicine and surgery and a copy of which is in the RCPE library. His surgical background and the influence of his Rankenian friends are apparent throughout his lectures; he repeatedly emphasises the need to rely on observed rather than inferred phenomena before reaching conclusions. His philosophy of medicine based on observation and experience is very much in the tradition of Thomas Sydenham (1624–1689), the English physician who emphasised careful observation and objective characterisation of disease. The lectures provide a comprehensive account of contemporary medical, and some surgical practice but also deal with contemporary theories about nerve and muscle function. Young was well versed in the literature of the day and analysed the theories of James Keill (1673–1719), the Edinburgh physician and anatomist, Daniel Bernoulli (1700–1782) the Swiss mathematician and physician, John Mayow (1641–79), who had devised the 'gunpowder theory' of muscle function. He was sceptical about the iatromechanical theories of Herman Boerhaave (1668–1738) and Thomas Willis (1621–75). \nThe lectures were documented by his pupil Robert Whytt (1714–1766) and their influence on his thinking on nerve and muscle function is apparent in Whytt's \"Essay on the Vital and Other Involuntary Motions of Animals\" published in 1751.\n\nThe treatise was published as a response to an important paper on opium published in 1742 by Young's Edinburgh contemporary Charles Alston (1683–1760), professor of botany and materia medica. Alston described opium's history and its preparation from poppies he had grown, the first person in Britain to have done so. Young took exception to Alston's conclusion that 'opium does more honour to medicine than any other remedy whatever' and counters this by emphasising the risks '...that I may prevent such mischief as I can, I here give it as my sincere opinion... that opium is a poison by which great numbers are daily destroyed.' In 41 chapters he provides a comprehensive account of the indications for the drug including its complications. True to his reputation he is critical about writers whose knowledge of the drug is based on chemical or animal experiments rather than clinical practice.\nThe treatise is a detailed, balanced and valuable guide to prevailing knowledge and practice.\n\nJames Hill (1703–1776) was apprenticed to George Young in 1723 and went on to work as a surgeon in Dumfries. In 1772 he published \"Cases in Surgery\" which was in effect an account of cases that he had treated over a working lifetime in surgery including head injuries. Hill had been taught by Young the value of observation and the need for scepticism. Hills's series of head injuries which he had treated were the best published in the eighteenth century. Hill’s ability to clinically diagnose cerebral compression from bleeding following head injury enabled him to treat this successfully by directed trephine and drainage. His writing was an important addition to the increasing understanding of the basis of the management of head injury and were being quoted 100 years after publication.\n\nYoung was recognised by Whytt (and presumably by other contemporaries) as a sceptic and empiric, and, in his discussions with fellow Rankenians may well have influenced the early thoughts on the doctrine of empiricism developed by David Hume and that of scepticism with which he is associated. The similarities between Young's lectures and what became Hume's analysis of causation, probability, and practice are striking. His influence on Hill and Whytt was considerable and his son, Thomas Young became Professor of Midwifery at Edinburgh credited with setting up, at his own expense, the first lying-in ward in Scotland in Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. Young's reputation may have been damaged by his actions leading up to the divorce of his son George. His philosophy is summarised in his entry in the Dictionary of eighteenth-century British philosophers.\n"}
{"id": "1029152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029152", "title": "Give-away shop", "text": "Give-away shop\n\nGive-away shops, swap shops, freeshops, or free stores are stores where all goods are free. They are similar to charity shops, with mostly second-hand items—only everything is available at no cost. Whether it is a book, a piece of furniture, a garment or a household item, it is all freely given away, although some operate a one-in, one-out–type policy (swap shops).\n\nThe free store is a form of constructive direct action that provides a shopping alternative to a monetary framework, allowing people to exchange goods and services outside of a money-based economy. The anarchist 1960s countercultural group the Diggers opened free stores which simply gave away their stock, provided free food, distributed free drugs, gave away money, organized free music concerts, and performed works of political art. The Diggers took their name from the original English Diggers led by Gerrard Winstanley and sought to create a mini-society free of money and capitalism. Although free stores have not been uncommon in the United States since the 1960s, the freegan movement has inspired the establishment of more free stores. \nCulturally, some people feel that accepting free goods carries a stigma, so many people who use these shops are those who are led to them either by need (financially poor, such as students, single parents, the working-class, and the elderly) or by conviction (anti-capitalists and environmentalists). Swap shops, where you are asked to bring something in order to take something, are one way in which stigma issues are addressed.\n\nIn the United States, Really Really Free Market groups organize periodic \"market days\" in city parks. Participants are encouraged to share unneeded items, food, skills and talents (entertainment, haircutting, etc.), to clean up after themselves and to take home any of their own items they were unable to give away during the event. In other cases, used goods are picked up from the donors' homes, thus eliminating overhead costs. Donors are often not motivated by financial need or strictly anti-capitalist conviction, but by a desire to get rid of what would otherwise be garbage without adding it to landfills.\n\nAnother recent development in the give-away shop movement is the creation of the Freecycle Network. It began in the state of Arizona, United States for the purpose of connecting people who had extra belongings to get rid of with people who needed something, organized as discussion/distribution lists, and usually hosted on one of the free websites.\n\nIn 2007 a similar concept began to flourish in Devon, England where a group of free-bookshops called Book-Cycle began; A volunteer-run registered charity, that gives books and trees away in exchange for a donation. Any proceeds are then used to send free books to developing countries and plant trees in the local area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14590005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14590005", "title": "Grace (given name)", "text": "Grace (given name)\n\nGrace is a feminine given name from the Latin \"gratia\". It is often given in reference to the Christian concept of divine grace and used as a virtue name.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4146026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4146026", "title": "Inayatullah Khan Mashriqi", "text": "Inayatullah Khan Mashriqi\n\nInayatullah Khan Mashriqi, also known as Allama Mashriqi, (25 August 1888 – 27 August 1963) was a Pakistani mathematician, logician, political theorist, Islamic scholar and the founder of the Khaksar movement.\n\nAround 1930, he founded the Khaksar Movement, aiming to advance the condition of the masses irrespective of any faith, sect, or religion.\n\nInayatullah Khan Mashriqi was born on 25 August 1888 to a Rajput family in Amritsar. Mashriqi's father Khan Ata Muhammad Khan was an educated man of wealth who owned a bi-weekly publication, \"Vakil\", in Amritsar. His forefathers had held high government positions during the Mughal Empire and Sikh Empires. Because of his father's position he came into contact with a range of well-known luminaries including Jamāl al-Dīn al-Afghānī, Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, and Shibli Nomani as a young man.\n\nMashriqi was educated initially at home before attending schools in Amritsar. From an early age, he showed a passion for mathematics. After completing his Bachelor of Arts degree with First Class honours at Forman Christian College in Lahore, he completed his master's degree in Mathematics from the University of the Punjab, taking a First Class for the first time in the history of the University.\n\nIn 1907 he moved to England, where he matriculated at Christ's College, Cambridge, to read for the mathematics tripos. He was awarded a college foundation scholarship in May 1908. In June 1909 he was awarded first class honours in Mathematics Part I, being placed joint 27th out of 31 on the list of wranglers. For the next two years, he read for the oriental languages tripos in parallel to the natural sciences tripos, gaining first class honours in the former, and third class in the latter.\n\nAfter three years' residence at Cambridge he had qualified for a Bachelor of Arts degree, which he took in 1910. In 1912 he completed a fourth tripos in mechanical sciences, and was placed in the second class. At the time he was believed to be the first man of any nationality to achieve honours in four different Triposes, and was lauded in national newspapers across the UK. The next year, Mashriqi was conferred with a DPhil in mathematics receiving a gold medal at his doctoral graduation ceremony.\n\nHe left Cambridge and returned to India in December 1912. During his stay in Cambridge his religious and scientific conviction was inspired by the works and concepts of Professor Sir James Jeans.\n\nOn his return to India, Mashriqi was offered the premiership of Alwar, a princely state, by the Maharaja. He declined owing to his interest in education. At the age of 25, and only a few months after arriving in India, he was appointed vice principal of Islamia College, Peshawar, by Chief Commissioner Sir George Roos-Keppel and was made principal of the same college two years later. In October 1917 he was appointed under secretary to the Government of India in the Education Department in succession to Sir George Anderson. He became headmaster of the High School, Peshawar on 21 October 1919.\n\nIn 1920, the British government offered Mashriqi the ambassadorship of Afghanistan, and a year later he was offered a knighthood. However, he however refused both awards.\n\nIn 1930, he was passed over for a promotion in the government service, following which he went on medical leave. In 1932 he resigned, taking his pension, and settled down in Ichhra, Lahore.\n\nIn 1924, at the age of 36, Mashriqi completed the first volume of his book, \"Tazkirah\". It is a commentary on the \"Qur'an\" in the light of science. It was nominated for the Nobel Prize in 1925, subject to the condition it was translated into one of the European languages. However, Mashriqi declined the suggestion of translation.\n\nHe declared that the science of religions was essentially the science of collective evolution of mankind; all prophets came to unite mankind, not to disrupt it; the basic law of all faiths is the law of unification and consolidation of the entire humanity. According to Markus Daeschel, the philosophical ruminations of Mashriqi offer an opportunity to re-evaluate the meaning of colonial modernity and notion of post-colonial nation-building in modern times.\n\nMashriqi is often portrayed as a controversial figure, a religious activist, a revolutionary, and an anarchist; while at the same time he is described as a visionary, a reformer, a leader, and a scientist-philosopher who was born ahead of his time.\n\nAfter Mashriqi resigned from government service, he laid the foundation of the Khaksar Tehrik (also known as Khaksar Movement) around 1930.\nOn 20 July 1943, an assassination attempt was made on Muhammad Ali Jinnah by Rafiq Sabir who was assumed to be a Khaksar worker. The attack was deplored by Mashriqi, who denied any involvement. Later, Justice Blagden of the Bombay High Court in his ruling on 4 November 1943 dismissed any association between the attack and the Khaksars.\n\nIn Pakistan, Mashriqi was imprisoned at least four times: in 1958 for alleged complicity in the murder of republican leader Khan Abdul Jabbar Khan (popularly known as Dr. Khan Sahib); and, in 1962 for suspicion of attempting to overthrow President Ayub's government. However, none of the charges were proven, and he was acquitted in each case.\n\nIn 1957, Mashriqi allegedly led 300,000 of his followers to the borders of Kashmir, intending, it is said, to launch a fight for its liberation. However, the Pakistan government persuaded the group to withdraw and the organisation was later disbanded.\n\nMashriqi died at the Mayo Hospital in Lahore on 27 August 1963 following a short battle with cancer. His funeral prayers were held at the Badshahi Mosque and he was buried in Ichhra. He was survived by his wife and seven children.\n\nMashriqi's prominent works include:\n\n\nMashriqi's fellowships included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6994466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6994466", "title": "Itō Jinsai", "text": "Itō Jinsai\n\n, who also went by the pen name Keisai, was a Japanese Confucian philosopher and educator. He is considered to be one of the most influential Confucian scholars of seventeenth century Japan, and the Tokugawa period (1600–1868) generally, his teachings flourishing especially in Kyoto and the Kansai area through the final years of the Tokugawa shogunate.\n\nJinsai's school, known as the Kogigaku, criticized the teachings of Zhu Xi 朱熹 (1130–1200) and instead advocated a philosophical vision based on an understanding of the meanings of key terms in the \"Analects\" and the \"Mencius\". His school has been considered part of a larger movement, Kogaku (\"ancient learning'), including earlier scholars such as Yamaga Sokō 山鹿素行 (1622–1685), and later thinkers such as Ogyū Sorai 荻生徂徠 (1666–1728). However, Jinsai never mentions Sokō or his ideas, and Jinsai's own statements of philosophical meaning were strongly and systematically criticized by Sorai. Rather than as a thinker aligned with the so-called Kogaku movement, Jinsai's ideas are best understood on their own terms. Jinsai is widely known for his outspoken affirmation of the validity of human emotions, and his articulation of a metaphysics highlighting the pervasiveness and infinite creative potential of a \"unitary generative force\" (Jpn: \"ichigenki\"). Indicative of his renown in the larger world of East Asian philosophy, Jinsai's writings have frequently been compared to those of the Qing dynasty scholar Dai Zhen 戴震 (1724–1777), whose key work, \"Mengzi ziyi shuzheng\" (\"The Meanings of Philosophical Terms in the\" Mencius) is very similar in theme and method to Jinsai's opus, the \"Gomō jigi\" (\"The Meanings of Philosophical Terms in the\" Analects \"and\" Mencius).\n\nJinsai was born the eldest son of a Kyoto merchant, Itō Ryōshitsu. It is not clear exactly what merchant activities the family was engaged in, however. He began studying Chinese from an early age and devoted himself to Zhu Xi's expression of Song dynasty Neo-Confucianism. He continued to study Confucianism throughout his teens, going over old books his uncle had left his father.\n\nBy the age of ten, he was studying under his uncle, a noted physician who had once treated the emperor Go-Yōzei. He also likely studied with Matsunaga Sekigo, a Kyoto-based Neo-Confucian scholar who had in turn studied with Fujiwara Seika. Given the distinctively Kyoto lineage of Jinsai's learning, there are good reasons for interpreting it as an expression of the philosophical world of the ancient imperial capital.\n\nItō suffered from an unidentified illness when he was twenty-eight and left the family business to his younger brother. Afterwards he became a recluse, studying Buddhism and Daoism. During this time he began to have his first doubts over Zhu Xi's philosophy, even changing his pen name which showed his commitment to humaneness (\"jin\").\n\nHe later established a private school, the Kogidō, in Kyoto in 1662. Following Jinsai's death in 1705, leadership at the Kogidō was assumed by his son, Tōgai (1670–1736). The Kogidō was located on the east bank of the Horikawa River, directly across from the school of Yamazaki Ansai. During his lifetime, Ansai became a major proponent of Zhu Xi's version of Song Neo-Confucian thought. Jinsai's school, in contrast, offered a sustained critique of Zhu Xi's ideas. Especially in Kyoto, Jinsai's school met with great success, attracting three thousand students from many different classes and professions.\n\nJinsai formed his own understanding of Confucian philosophy after coming to realize that Zhu Xi's speculative philosophy of was not practical in everyday ethics. Instead, he felt one could learn the way of the sages through an understanding of the meanings of words in the \"Analects\" and the \"Mencius\", two of the Four Books that Zhu Xi's philosophy had elevated to nearly canonical status within the broad field of East Asian Confucianism. The other two of the Four Books, \"The Doctrine of the Mean\" and the \"Great Learning\", were originally chapters from the Book of Rites (Chinese: Liji), that had been treated as separate volumes, with significant emendations, by Cheng Yi and Zhu Xi. It was largely on the basis of the latter two writings that Zhu Xi in particular had articulated some of his most distinctive Neo-Confucian ideas. In response to Zhu Xi's textual alterations, Jinsai argued, in a very distinctive manner, that \"the Great Learning was not a surviving work of the Confucian School\", not simply rejecting Zhu Xi's claims on particular points, but in an across the board manner dismissing the text as \"not Confucian\" in any significant respect. Instead of the \"Great Learning\", Jinsai's approach was to focus on an explanation of the meanings of philosophical terms as discussed in the \"Analects\" and the \"Mencius\". Jinsai's approach to Confucian scholarship is today known as \"kogigaku\" or \"study of ancient meanings\". This approach was taken up by later Confucian scholars, particularly Ogyū Sorai.\n\nIn significant respects, Jinsai can be seen as advancing the Neo-Confucian project that Zhu Xi, his chief philosophical adversary, had otherwise so effectively and persuasively championed. For example, Jinsai's most comprehensive philosophical text, the \"Gomō jigi\" (\"The Meanings of Philosophical Terms in the\" Analects \"and\" Mencius), was first recorded as Jinsai was giving a series of lectures on Chen Beixi's 陳北溪 (1156–1223) \"Xingli ziyi\" 性理字義 (\"The Meanings of Neo-Confucian Philosophical Terms\"). Much of the philosophical structure of Jinsai's \"Gomō jigi\" as well as its methodology of conceptual clarification and analysis clearly derive from Beixi's work. The two texts even share common elements in their titles, \"jigi\" and \"ziyi\" 字義 (Jpn: \"jigi\") being written with the same characters, referring to the meanings of words. In both cases, however, the words that were discussed and defined were distinctively philosophical terms such as \"tendō\" (the way of heaven), \"tenmei\" (the decree of heaven), \"michi\" (the way), \"sei\" (human nature), \"kokoro\" (the mind and heart), \"kotowari\" (principle), \"kishin\" (ghosts and spirits), and many others.\n\nJinsai is often described as an apolitical philosopher. However, the \"Gomō jigi\" can easily be seen as an inherently political text, one which defines the very philosophical foundations of an ideal political order. In the \"Analects\", 13/3, Confucius, when asked by a disciple what he would do if given political authority, replied that he would \"rectify terms\" (\"zheng ming\"). When his disciple responded with bewilderment, Confucius explained that if words were not used correctly, then in effect there could be little hope for order in a state. For that reason, Confucius added, the prince is always careful in his use of words. Jinsai's project of defining philosophical terms rightly is very much a later day expression of Confucius' view that in order to govern effectively, one must ensure that words are understood and used correctly. If that is not done, then all will be lost.\n\nJinsai had several fundamental philosophical disagreements with Zhu Xi, the premier interpreter of Confucian thought from the late-Song dynasty forward. For one, Zhu Xi had claimed that human nature is inherently good. Jinsai disagreed and instead argued it had the potential to become good, but only through daily practice and deeds can this potential be realized. Additionally, he rejected the dualism of rational principal (\"li\") and material force (\"qi\") proposed by Song Confucianism, believing it was material force alone that led to the creation of life and all things.\n\nFurthermore, Zhu Xi connected the way of heaven (\"tendō\") with the human way (\"jindō\") through rational principal. Jinsai on the other hand saw the way (\"michi\") as being embedded in the common and everyday, and not ensconced on some elevated plane as Zhu had suggested. To Jinsai, the central question was how one should conduct oneself in everyday life. Zhu Xi affirmed that all humans are born with an \"original human nature\" (\"sei\"), which is naturally good. Jinsai, however, rejected this.\n\nRather than the essential goodness of human nature, Jinsai stressed natural human emotions (\"ninjō\"), which he found in everyday life. Extending from this came the importance that was placed on poetry which allowed for the expression of human emotions. This, he believed, provided a needed release of emotions and desires. Song Confucianism he felt too much advocated seriousness and a restraint of human nature. His support for literature even led to the Kogidō attracting some students more interested in Chinese poetry than his Confucian teachings.\n\nAlthough often grouped with the Edo Confucian scholar, Ogyū Sorai, as a proponent of the ancient learning movement, Jinsai's singlemost harsh critic was none other than Sorai. In a letter written to Jinsai, Sorai early on expressed admiration for the Kyoto philosopher and an interest in his philosophy, having read a pirated edition of Jinsai's \"Gomō jigi\" published long before Jinsai was ready for it to be released in its final form. Jinsai never responded to Sorai, apparently wounding his pride deeply. Whatever Sorai might have made of Jinsai's silence, it is clear that in Sorai's later writings, in the \"Bendō\" and \"Benmei\" (1728) in particular, Sorai takes issue with Jinsai on nearly every count, often criticizing him harshly as in effect no different in philosophical doctrine than the thinker he supposedly was criticizing, Zhu Xi.\n\nIn the later writings of the Kaitokudō, a merchant academy based in Osaka, Jinsai found a succession of defenders who returned Sorai's critiques with a series of harsh responses to Sorai's own philosophical statements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47225302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47225302", "title": "Jacob Clay", "text": "Jacob Clay\n\nJacob Clay () (1882–1955) was a prominent Dutch physicist who first suggested and provided evidence that cosmic rays are charged particles.\n\nClay was born \"Jacob Claij\" in Berkhout on 18 January 1882 as the son of Pieter Claij and Neeltje Molenaar. After attending the Erasmiaans Gymnasium, he studied physics at the University of Leiden under Heike Kamerlingh Onnes and Hendrik Antoon Lorentz. After obtaining his Ph.D. degree in 1908 he married Tettje Clay-Jolles with whom he had a son.\n\nAfter teaching in Leiden and at the Technische Hogeschool in Delft from 1906 to 1920, he was appointed Professor at the newly founded Bandung Institute of Technology. On a trip back to the Netherlands he measured the cosmic radiation and noticed an increase the further he was from the equator, which suggested to him that cosmic rays are deflected by the geomagnetic field and let him to propose that they are charged particles rather than photons. This proposal was generally accepted by 1932. In 1929 he became professor at the University of Amsterdam, publishing over 200 papers until his retirement in 1952.\nIn 1928 he became correspondent of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, he resigned a year later. In 1936 he became a full member. Clay died on 31 December 1955 in De Bilt\n\n"}
{"id": "40668163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40668163", "title": "Janusz Wojcieszak", "text": "Janusz Wojcieszak\n\nJanusz Wojcieszak (1953–2012) was a Polish philologist and philosopher, specialist in the history, literature and culture of Latin America. He graduated from Warsaw University's Department of Spanish Studies in 1977 and the following year was hired by his alma mater as an assistant, eventually rising to the rank of professor. He committed suicide in October 2012. Initially declared missing, his body was found floating in the Vistula close to Gdański Bridge on 17 October 2012.\n\nIn addition to his own works, he translated numerous books by Spanish and Latin American authors. Among them were works by: \n"}
{"id": "3823152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3823152", "title": "Johan Jakob Borelius", "text": "Johan Jakob Borelius\n\nJohan Jakob (or Jacob) Borelius (27 July 1823 – 1909) was an influential professor of theoretical philosophy at the University of Lund, Sweden from 1866-1898. He has been called \"The Last Swedish Hegelian.\"\n\nBorelius was born in Skinnskatteberg. He obtained his doctorate from Uppsala University in 1848, afterward becoming a teacher in Kalmar. while he continued his studies under Christopher Jacob Boström. His overall philosophy is laid out in his work \"Metafysik\" (metaphysics).\n\nBorelius is mentioned in a footnote of Jorge Luis Borges' short story \"Three Versions of Judas.\"\n"}
{"id": "15511744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15511744", "title": "Joseph Gabel", "text": "Joseph Gabel\n\nJoseph Gabel (12 July 1912 in Hungary – 15 June 2004 in Paris) was a French Hungarian-born sociologist and philosopher. His work was always strongly influenced by Marxism; he was against Stalinism and critical of the work of Louis Althusser.\n\nHe first studied Psychopathology with Eugène Minkowski, then he turned to Sociology (he was mainly influenced by Karl Mannheim and Georg Lukács). He taught at the Mohammed-V University of Rabat from 1965 to 1971, and at Amiens University from 1971 to 1980.\n\nIn 1962, he published his most important work: \"False Consciousness: An Essay on Reification\". From the standpoint of psychopathology, this study works to synthesize Marxist notions of \"False Consciousness\" and reification with the study of Schizophrenia. In the following years, Gabel's works stressed the analysis of ideologies and marxist theory of alienation (\"The Sociology of Alienation\", 1971; \"Idéologies\" 1974 - 1978; \"Alienation Today\", 1974). Gabel also wrote the articles \"Utopia\" and \"Ideology\" in the \"Encyclopedia Universalis\" and he was one of the only French specialists on Karl Mannheim.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45513759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45513759", "title": "Kim Sawchuk", "text": "Kim Sawchuk\n\nKim Sawchuk (born 1960) is a professor in the Department of Communication Studies, Research Chair in Mobile Media Studies, and Associate Dean of Research and Graduate Studies (Faculty of Arts and Science) at Concordia University in Montreal Canada. A feminist media studies scholar, Sawchuk's research spans the fields of art, gender, and culture, examining the intersection of technology into peoples lives and how that changes as one ages.\n\nKimberly Anne Sawchuk was born in 1960 in Canada. She earned her bachelor's degree in 1982 from the University of Winnipeg, with gold medal honors for a dual-major in Political Science and History. She completed both a Master's in 1986 and her PhD in Social and Political Thought in 1991 from York University in Toronto. Sawchuk joined the Department of Communication Studies at Concordia University in 1990 and by 2011 was an associate professor. On 1 January 2015, she began serving as Associate Dean of Research and Graduate Studies for the Faculty of Arts and Science at Concordia.\n\nShe has been writing articles on the cultural impact of aging and technology since 1992, and examines cultural attitudes towards aging. Sawchuk has noted that if elderly people are portrayed in advertising at all, they are portrayed primarily as caricatures of their youth. Not who they are, but who they once were. However, she believes that as marketers and advertisers educate themselves about seniors, targeting older markets can be lucrative. She's also involved in changing the popular image of the elderly and works in collaboration with community organizations and activists to address their experience of digital technologies.\n\nSawchuk has participated in a wide number of research projects. In 2010, she was involved in a project on mobile communications and biomedical imaging. In 2011, Sawchuk and Barbara Crow conducted a research project sponsored by the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada on whether services, which are frequently geared to on-line access, are accessible to marginalized or older citizens.\n\nOften exploring feminist issues, Sawchuk's interests are not limited to feminism. In 2012, she developed a smartphone application with film producer Katarina Soukup, which allows users to uncover geographical and historical landmarks using the GPS systems on the phone, becoming virtual underground explorers. Sawchuk began participation in 2014 in a two-year trans-cultural project between Canada and the European Union called \"Performigrations: people are the territory\". The project is designed to study cultural change and diversity, modern mobility, and the spread of ideas.\n\nIn 2014, Sawchuk received a grant of approximately $3 million to research, over a seven-year period, the topic Ageing, \"Communication, Technologies (ACT): Experiencing a Digital World In Later Life\". The project brings together collaborators from 12 international universities to study the use of technology by aging people and how that changes their world and views of the world.\n\nIn addition to research, Sawchuk has lectured internationally and participated in seminars at the University of Bologna, Drexel University, Istanbul Bilgi University, Lancaster University, the University of Manchester and University of Silesia, Poland.\n\nSawchuk co-founded the Mobile Media Lab (York-Concordia) in 2006 She is also the organizer of the Critical Disability Studies Working Group at Concordia and works in collaboration with artists and scholars to document and critically examine ableism in cities such as Montreal, Quebec. As part of her work on disabilities, Sawchuk is developing an archive with Arseli Dokumaci funded by the Canadian Consortium on Performance and Politics in the Americas (CCPPA) on performance and disability throughout the Americas.\n\nIn addition to her academic research, she co-founded of StudioXX, a digital media center in Montreal where feminist academics, artists, and community activists gather in 1996.\n\nShe completed a six-year term as the editor of the \"Canadian Journal of Communications\" (www.cjc-online.ca) in 2011 and she is the co-editor of \"Wi: Journal of Mobile Media\". She has also co-edited numerous books and special issues of journals.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5702463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5702463", "title": "Knowledge environment", "text": "Knowledge environment\n\nKnowledge environments are social practices, technological and physical arrangements intended to facilitate collaborative knowledge building, decision making, inference or discovery, depending on the epistemological premises and goals.\n\nKnowledge environments departing from constructivist epistemology assume that domain knowledge is built in and results from cognitive and/or social practices. From this perspective the primary purpose of knowledge environments is to host and support activities of knowledge building, the means including cognitive ergonomics, social software, immediate information access exploiting means of multimedia and hypertext, content contribution functionalities and structured ontologies. Wikipedia itself is a prototypical example of a knowledge environment in this sense.\n\nFrom another perspective, the purpose of a knowledge environment can be defined as a method to facilitate consistent knowledge outcomes. Knowledge outcomes reveal themselves as learning, communication, goals, decisions, etc. Consistent knowledge outcomes imply predictable learning results or replicable communication results and predictable quality of decisions. The design of knowledge environments is both commonplace activity and specialised expert work. At a simplistic level every teacher, every author, every librarian and every database manager is a creator of a knowledge environment. At a specialized level, knowledge environments need sophisticated architecture and modeling capabilities. This approach is necessary when the creator of the knowledge environment wants to deliver replicable results in hundreds of specific instances of the same knowledge environment. On the other hand, the strengthening trend of public authorship leads to open-ended ontologies by means of, say, tagging or folksonomies. In a significant sense, knowledge environments are in such cases created not only by their authors or owners but also by the contributors of their ontologies.\n\nThere are various kinds of knowledge environments:\n\nKnowledge environments are all pervasive but difficult to build on a scalable and a replicable basis. This is because of two groups of interacting variables:\n\nSome of the issues in development are:\n\nKnowledge environments are useful for designing:\n\n"}
{"id": "31192198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31192198", "title": "Lazarus Bendavid", "text": "Lazarus Bendavid\n\nLazarus Bendavid (18 October 1762 in Berlin – 28 March 1832 in Berlin) was a Jewish German mathematician and philosopher known for his exposition of Kantian philosophy.\n\nHe was Jewish Kantian philosopher. After his graduation from the University of Berlin he lectured for some years on the philosophy of Kant in Vienna. His lectures being discouraged by the Austrian government during a general purge of foreigners, Bendavid returned to Berlin, where he found government employment and continued to lecture and write.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4721799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4721799", "title": "Merle Curti", "text": "Merle Curti\n\nMerle Eugene Curti (September 15, 1897 – March 9, 1996) was a leading American historian, who taught many graduate students at Columbia University and the University of Wisconsin, and was a leader in developing the fields of social history and intellectual history. He directed 86 finished Ph.D. dissertations and had an unusually wide range of correspondents. As a Progressive historian he was deeply committed to democracy, and to the Turnerian thesis that social and economic forces shape American life, thought and character. He was a pioneer in peace studies, intellectual history, and social history, and helped develop quantitative methods based on census samples as a tool in historical research.\n\nCurti was born in Papillion, Nebraska, a suburb of Omaha, on September 15, 1897. His parents were John Eugene Curti, an immigrant from Switzerland, and Alice Hunt, a Yankee from Vermont. Curti attended high school in Omaha then obtained a bachelor's degree in 1920 from Harvard University, graduating \"summa cum laude\". He then spent a year studying in France where he met Margaret Wooster, 1898–1963, who had a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago and was a pioneer in research on child psychology. They married in 1925 and had two daughters. Curti received his Ph.D. in 1927 from Harvard as one of the last students of Frederick Jackson Turner.\n\nCurti taught at Beloit College, Smith College, and Columbia University, then in 1942 he joined the faculty of the University of Wisconsin, where he taught for 25 years. He also taught in Japan, Australia, and India, and lectured throughout Europe.\n\nWhile at Smith College, Curti published his first book, \"The American Peace Crusade, 1815–1860\" (1929). The book, based on his dissertation, was written after Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr. (who had replaced Turner at Harvard) rejected his first dissertation proposal which was essentially an early version of \"The Growth of American Thought.\"\n\nMoving to Teachers College at Columbia in 1931, he published a book on William Jennings Bryan and world peace (\"Bryan and World Peace\"). It was followed by \"Peace or War: The American Struggle\" in 1936. With these works, Curti helped found peace and conflict studies as a field of study. He criticized pacifists for ignoring major social changes—especially the repudiation of old-fashioned competitive capitalism by the New Deal, and the need to repudiate imperial greed if peace were to be achieved. In 1964 he helped found the Conference on Peace Research in History, now called the Peace History Society. \"The Roots of American Loyalty\" (1946) was a history of patriotism.\n\nCurti developed his global vision through travels; he taught in Japan, Australia and India for two years. He left the Episcopal faith of his boyhood for Unitarianism. Although never a Marxist, he voted for Socialist presidential candidates in the name of world peace.\n\nCurti turned his attention to intellectual history, and helped to establish that field as a distinct academic discipline. His first foray in the field was \"The Social Ideals of American Educators,\" published in 1935. In 1944, Curti won the Pulitzer Prize in history for his masterwork, \"The Growth of American Thought.\" Its chapters show an encyclopedic knowledge of thinkers great and small from the colonial period to the present, together with his commitment to democracy as a process springing from the ideas of the people. Curti adapted Turner's frontier thesis to intellectual history, arguing, \"Because the American environment, physical and social, differed from that of Europe, Americans, confronted by different needs and problems, adapted the European intellectual heritage in their own way. And because American life came increasingly to differ from European life, American ideas, American agencies of intellectual life, and the use made of knowledge likewise came to differ in America from their European counterparts.\" (p vi) Unlike some of the other leaders of the American Studies program, he paid little attention to myths and symbols. Unlike Perry Miller at Harvard, who strongly influenced a new generation of intellectual historians, Curti never delved too deeply into the internal history of ideas, preferring to link them to multiple external social and economic factors. His book was not so much a history of American thought as a social history of American thought, with strong attention to the social and economic forces that shaped that thought from the bottom up.\n\nIn the 1950s Curti undertook a collaborative social history of rural Trempealeau County, Wisconsin using avant-garde quantitative analysis of census records. The book which came out of the project, \"The Making of an American Community: A Case Study of Democracy in a Frontier County\" (1959) immediately became a pioneer work in what would soon be dubbed the \"new social history.\" Curti's wife Margaret Wooster Curti, provided some of the quantitative methodology. Historians, however, did not emulate it, preferring instead to follow Stephan Thernstrom's model in \"Poverty and Progress: Social Mobility in a Nineteenth-Century American City\" (1964), which used a similar methodology of tracking workers through their careers using censuses and city directories. The difference was urban and rural—urban history was exploding and rural history was a backwater; in addition the Thernstrom model was easier to replicate by a graduate student writing a Ph.D. thesis alone (Curti had numerous research assistants and coauthors). Whereas the \"old\" social history comprised descriptions of everyday lifestyles, perhaps with a coverage of grass roots political movements (like the Populists), Curti's \"new\" social history was a systematic examination of the entire population using statistics and social science methodologies.\n\nIn 1942 Curti was called to the Frederick Jackson Turner Professorship of History at the University of Wisconsin, one of the nation's most influential centers of historical scholarship; he retired from the department in 1968. Curti continued to write after retirement, keeping up-to-date his influential textbook \"Rise of the American Nation\" (1st ed. 1950), coauthored with Lewis Todd, which went through many editions after their deaths.\n\nThe Wisconsin department of history was notorious for the angry feuds among the senior professors, which Curti, mild-mannered and small of stature, completely ignored. Curti supervised 86 finished doctoral dissertations at Columbia and Wisconsin, including many who became well-known scholars: Richard Hofstadter on social Darwinism; John Higham on nativism; Bourke on community studies; Allen Davis on Progressivism and Jane Addams; and Roderick Nash on the environment. Curti allowed his students a free hand in content and methodology. He encouraged his students constantly, wrote highly detailed critiques of their chapters, protected them from intradepartmental feuds, helped them get funding, and found them jobs through the \"old boys\" network of which he was an accomplished maestro, writing hundreds of letters a month to friends and ex-students across the globe.\n\nCurti won the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1944 for \"The Growth of American Thought\" (1943).\n\nHe was president of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association (now the Organization of American Historians) in 1952 and the American Historical Association in 1954.\n\nHe was a co-founder of the American Studies Association. He served as the organization's vice-president in 1954 and 1955, and was asked to serve as president in 1956, but he declined the honor because he was going to be out of the country.\n\nCurti was also a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Philosophical Society.\n\nIn 1977 the Organization of American Historians established the Merle Curti Award, which is given annually for the best book in social, intellectual, and/or cultural history. (In some years, the organization has awarded two prizes, one in social and/or cultural history and one in intellectual and/or cultural history.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20036", "title": "Metasyntactic variable", "text": "Metasyntactic variable\n\nA metasyntactic variable is a specific word or set of words identified as a placeholder in computer science and specifically computer programming. These words are commonly found in source code and are intended to be modified or substituted to be applicable to the specific usage before compilation (translation to an executable). The words foo and bar are good examples as they are used in over 330 Internet Engineering Task Force Requests for Comments, which are documents explaining foundational internet technologies like HTTP (websites), TCP/IP, and email protocols.\n\nBy mathematical analogy, a metasyntactic variable is a word that is a variable for other words, just as in algebra letters are used as variables for numbers.\n\nMetasyntactic variables are used to name entities such as variables, functions, and commands whose exact identity is unimportant and serve only to demonstrate a concept, which is useful for teaching programming.\n\nDue to English being the foundation-language, or lingua franca, of most computer programming languages these variables are commonly seen even in programs and examples of programs written for other spoken-language audiences.\n\nThe typical names may depend however on the subculture that has developed around a given programming language.\n\nMetasyntactic variables used commonly across all programming languages include \"foobar\", \"foo\", \"bar\", \"baz\", \"qux\", \"quux\", \"quuz\", \"corge\", \"grault\", \"garply\", \"waldo\", \"fred\", \"plugh\", \"xyzzy\", and \"thud\". \"Wibble\", \"wobble\", \"wubble\", and \"flob\" are also used in the UK.\n\nA complete reference can be found in a MIT Press book titled: The Hacker's Dictionary.\n\nspam, ham, and eggs are the principal metasyntactic variables used in the Python programming language. This is a reference to the comedy sketch \"Spam\" by Monty Python, the eponym of the language.\n\nIn Japanese, the words \"hoge\" (ほげ) and \"piyo\" (ぴよ) are commonly used, with other common words and variants being \"fuga\" (ふが), \"hogera\" (ほげら), and \"hogehoge\" (ほげほげ). Note that \"-ra\" is a pluralizing ending in Japanese, and reduplication is also used for pluralizing. The origin of \"hoge\" as a metasyntactic variable is not known, but it is believed to date to the early 1980s.\n\nIn the following example the function name foo and the variable name bar are both metasyntactic variables. Lines beginning with // are comments.\n\nSpam, ham, and eggs are the principal metasyntactic variables used in the Python programming language. This is a reference to the famous comedy sketch, \"Spam\", by Monty Python, the eponym of the language.\nIn the following example spam, ham, and eggs are metasyntactic variables and lines beginning with # are comments.\n\nIn the following example the baz, foo, and bar are metasyntactic variables and lines beginning with # are comments.\n\nBoth the IETF RFCs and computer programming languages are rendered in plain text, making it necessary to distinguish metasyntactic variables by a naming convention, since it would not be obvious from context. \n\nPlain text example:\n\nRFC 772 (cited in RFC 3092) contains for instance:\n\nAnother point reflected in the above example is the convention that a metavariable is to be uniformly substituted with the same instance in all its appearances in a given schema. This is in contrast with nonterminal symbols in formal grammars where the nonterminals on the right of a production can be substituted by different instances.\n\nThis section includes bits of code which show how metasyntactic variables are used in teaching computer programming concepts.\n\nFunction prototypes with different argument passing mechanisms:\nExample showing the function overloading capabilities of the C++ language\n\n"}
{"id": "9038826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9038826", "title": "Modal property", "text": "Modal property\n\nA modal property is a property representing possession of the qualities (especially action qualities) required to do something or get something done. It is a base concept, one of the base concepts mentioned as base types in the WordNet ontology of semantics. It is not a mental property. It is not a physical property.\n"}
{"id": "22438169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22438169", "title": "Nimism", "text": "Nimism\n\nIn aesthetics, nimism is a particular kind of trope or symbol characterized by exaggeration. \nThe term is derived from Latin (\"nimis\"), \"too much\" and (\"nimietas\"), \"excess\". Unlike a hyperbole or paradox, it is not applied to linguistic or rhetorical phenomena only, but usually refers to other forms of disparity, e.g. disproportions in sculptures and paintings, or certain sorts of discrepancies in appearance or behaviour (in theatre plays, movies etc.).\nThus nimism, by means of symbolic parallels or analogies, is meant to help the reader, viewer etc. to see the truth. A \"negative nimism\" hints at something bad (a weakness, vice, sin, crime etc.), the less frequently used \"positive nimism\" indicates something good (a virtue or something heroic).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6085695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6085695", "title": "Paul Cobben", "text": "Paul Cobben\n\nPaul Gulian Cobben (born 5 June 1951 in Amersfoort) is a Dutch philosopher. His main contribution to philosophy is that he has given an immanent critique of G.W.F. Hegel's philosophy.\nHis research specializes in Hegel's Phenomenology of Spirit (1807), Science of Logic (1812) and Philosophy of Right (1821).\n"}
{"id": "49645552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49645552", "title": "Petre Andrei", "text": "Petre Andrei\n\nPetre Andrei (June 29, 1891–October 4, 1940) was a Romanian sociologist, philosopher and politician.\n\nBorn in Brăila into a family of low-ranking civil servants, Andrei attended Nicolae Bălcescu High School from 1902 to 1910. He then moved to Iași, where he enrolled in the literature and philosophy faculty of Iași University, graduating in 1913. While a student, his mentor was Ion Petrovici. He continued his education in Berlin, where he audited a seminar on logic and history of philosophy, and in Leipzig. Returning home when the war broke out, he volunteered for service, in spite of being exempt due to the fact that his father was deceased. He was assigned to an infantry regiment in March 1915, and from July to September 1916, during which time Romania entered the war, he attended the reserve officers' school in Târgoviște. He was sent to another regiment, effective November, and distinguished himself in the battles at Oituz, Slănic and the Cașin valley. For his acts of bravery, he was awarded the Order of the Star of Romania, the Order of the Crown and War Cross with Bars.\n\nIn 1918, he defended his thesis, \"Filosofia valorii\", at Iași, receiving the title of doctor in philosophy. Initially a high school teacher, he was on the faculty of several Iași institutions: the National College, the Military High School and the Orthodox High School for Girls. He was then a substitute professor of history of philosophy in the sociology department of Iași University, becoming a full professor in 1922. The appointment to this post, left vacant upon the departure of Dimitrie Gusti, prompted a fierce battle within the faculty that drew the attention of the contemporary press. One wing, led by Ion Găvănescul, pushed for Garabet Aslan; another, which Petrovici headed, wanted Andrei. The latter faction was joined by Garabet Ibrăileanu when Petrovici promised to support Mihai Ralea's appointment after the latter's return from France; and by the new dean, Traian Bratu, a bitter adversary of Găvănescul and his ally Oreste Tafrali.\n\nFrom 1927 to 1930, Andrei headed the local magazine \"Minerva\", dedicated to cultural synthesis. His sociological ideas, which Andrei promoted both within and outside the department, are encapsulated in a series of studies and articles, among them: \"Sociologia revoluției\", 1921; \"Problema fericirii\"; \"Fundamentul etic sociologic\", 1921: \"Fascismul\", 1927; \"Probleme de metode în sociologie\", 1927; \"Probleme de sociologie\", 1927; \"Sociologie generală\", 1936; \"Manual de sociologie\", 1938. He was among those professors who opposed the university's politicization. In 1924, as a member of the faculty senate, he condemned not only Corneliu Zelea Codreanu's assassination of Constantin Manciu, but also A. C. Cuza for using his department to spread nationalist ideas, calling him the \"true moral assassin\".\n\nAttracted by its promise of deepening bourgeois democracy, Andrei joined the new National Peasants' Party (PNȚ) in 1928, becoming president of its Vaslui County chapter. He sat in the Assembly of Deputies while the PNȚ was in power from 1929 to 1933, making frequent speeches before the body. He spoke memorably of the role of parliament in the nation's political life, and worked to pass modern legislation, particularly in the fields of education and administration. In particular, he pushed for a law late in 1929 that brought about administrative decentralization, commenting that it would allow for a genuine exercise of national sovereignty. He was undersecretary of state at the Agriculture and Domains Department (1930) and the Public Instruction, Religious Affairs and Arts Ministry (1932-1933).\n\nAndrei was conflicted when King Carol II established an authoritarian National Renaissance Front (FRN) regime in 1938. On the one hand, his character and civic impulses recoiled at the idea of dictatorship; nevertheless, he joined forces with what he saw as the only viable means of preserving domestic order, maintaining the country's traditional pro-French foreign policy and crushing the Iron Guard. Andrei's hesitation can be seen in the diary he kept, where he opines that the law and not political assassination, which he utterly rejected, should decide serious national questions. Under the FRN regime cabinets of Miron Cristea, Armand Călinescu, Gheorghe Argeșanu, Constantin Argetoianu and Gheorghe Tătărescu, he served as Education Minister from December 1938 to July 1940. His term witnessed the adoption of a law on the organization of professional, lower and middle education; and one on industrial boys' education. In addition, the foundations were laid for a law on higher education.\n\nCarol's abdication and the establishment of a National Legionary State in September 1940 had dramatic consequences for Andrei. The incoming Education Minister, Traian Brăileanu, ordered his dismissal from higher education, while the new dictator Ion Antonescu had him put under investigation. In early October, after Iron Guard members searched his home and due to be arrested, he committed suicide, swallowing potassium cyanide. His political testament is contained in two letters: one to his wife, the other to his four sons.\n\nAfter World War II, the authorities of the new communist regime arrested his son Petru for having taken part in student anti-communist demonstrations; he was imprisoned from 1949 to 1952. Initially banned, the work of Petre Andrei was censored, with all passages referring to communist concepts, doctrine and practice excised, even from an authoritative edition published in the 1970s. Nevertheless, a rehabilitation of sorts began in 1970, when one of his most famous books, \"Sociologie generală\", appeared at Editura Academiei in 1970. A further four volumes, under the heading \"Opere sociologice\", came out between 1973 and 1983. In 1974, a treatise on sociological thought relegated Andrei to a \"departmental sociologist\", prompting a vigorous response from his son. Later in the decade and into the 1980s, Ovidiu Bădina and Romanian Communist Party ideologue Ștefan Voicu engaged in a polemic on the value of Andrei's work.\n\nThis could only be appreciated in full after the Romanian Revolution, when Petru Andrei made it his mission to preserve and publish his father's writings. In 1990, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of his death, the private Petre Andrei University of Iași was founded. In January 1991, he was elected a titular post-mortem member of the Romanian Academy.\n"}
{"id": "14322542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14322542", "title": "Rupert Read", "text": "Rupert Read\n\nRupert Read (born 1966) is an academic and a Green Party politician in England. He is Chair of the Green House thinktank, a former Green Party spokesperson for transport, former East of England party co-ordinator and currently a Reader in Philosophy at the University of East Anglia.\n\nRead commented regularly through the \"Eastern Daily Press\" 'One World Column' for five years. In his regular appearances in the local and national press, he speaks on sustainable transport, green economics and social justice.\n\nRead studied Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) at Balliol College, Oxford, before undertaking postgraduate studies in the United States at Princeton University and Rutgers University (where he gained his doctorate). Influenced by Ludwig Wittgenstein's philosophy, his PhD involved \"a Wittgensteinian exploration of the relationship between Kripke's 'quus' problem and Nelson Goodman's 'grue' problem.\"\n\nHe is Reader in Philosophy at the University of East Anglia, specialising in philosophy of language, philosophy of science, and environmental philosophy, previously having taught at Manchester. He has contributed to many books, including, in 2002, \"Kuhn: Philosopher of Scientific Revolution\", on the work of Thomas Kuhn, and, in 2005, \"Film As Philosophy: Essays in Cinema After Wittgenstein And Cavell\". His book \"Philosophy for Life: Applying Philosophy in Politics and Culture\", was released in July 2007.\n\nRead was one of five contributors, including Dr Nassim Nicholas Taleb, to a paper entitled \"The Precautionary Principle (with Application to the Genetic Modification of Organisms)\".\n\nRead was one of 13 Green Party councillors in Norwich, where he was first elected in 2004 to represent Wensum ward and re-elected in 2007 with 49% of the vote. He sat on the Joint Highways Committee of the city and county councils, and was spokesperson on Transport for the Green Party city councillors. Read stepped down from local politics in 2011 and Wensum was retained by the Green Party.\n\nHaving held a number of officer posts for the Eastern Region Green Party, at the beginning of 2007 Rupert Read was selected as Eastern Region Green Party's lead candidate for the European Parliament elections in 2009 and again in 2014. The East of England is one the Green Party's stronger regions in terms of support, and under the proportional representation system on which the European Elections operate, the Party was optimistic that he would represent them in the European Parliament. However, he was beaten to the last of the seven seats in the constituency by the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP) in 2009, and similarly in 2014. He stood in the Norwich North by-election, 2009, as the Green Party candidate, and returned the biggest by-election vote share in Green History with 9.7% of the vote.\n\nRead stood as MP candidate for Cambridge in the 2015 general election. He came fourth, having received 8% of the vote.\n\nRead was a regular contributor to the One World Column in the EDP, focussing on international development, poverty, globalisation, peacemaking, human rights, international relations and the environment.\n\nRead is co-founder of the Leave our Kids Alone campaign, which seeks a ban on all advertising targeting children under 11.\n\nRupert Read has developed, on the basis of his research in political and environmental philosophy, a radical proposal for institutional reform, to provide a place in the UK's democratic system for a voice for future people. The proposal was launched at Parliament on 10 Jan 2012.\n\nIn January 2015, Read apologised for tweets in which he was interpreted as describing trans women as \"a sort of 'opt-in' version of what it is to be a woman\", though he denied he did or ever had believed this and further stated: \"I do not and never have believed that trans-women are not real women, or are any less women.\" He said he did not consider being a trans woman a choice. He said he did not stand by everything he had written two years earlier and did not consider being a trans woman a choice. His comments caused concern within the LGBTIQ Greens, who invited him to \"engage with LGBTIQ Greens and listen to our deep concerns over his comments on trans people and of the phenomena that is trans.\"\n\nRead took up this offer and spent time with trans people in an effort to fully understand their lives. In his subsequent apology, Read said that \"most of the offence caused by my tweets is a result of misunderstandings generated by the fragmented and angry nature of so much debate on Twitter\" and reiterated that \"it is up to women, not anyone else – and certainly not me – to decide who gets let into women-only spaces ... All women have a right to be involved in making those decisions.\" He also said he \"reject[s] transphobia completely\". In a separate article he stated Read made a further apology in the Independent in which he said: that \"trans people ... need our active engagement in the issues they face\" and referred to some of the difficulties trans people face and his meetings with trans Greens. Peter Tatchell and Mary Beard were among the signatories to a letter to the Observer which criticised the \"censorship and silence of individuals\", and explicitly mentioned Read. Tatchell says he received thousands of critical comments in response to this, some of which were hateful or threatening.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36520780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36520780", "title": "Self-absorption paradox", "text": "Self-absorption paradox\n\nThe self-absorption paradox describes the contradictory association whereby higher levels of self-awareness are simultaneously associated with higher levels of psychological distress and with psychological well-being.\n\nIn 1999, Trapnell and Campbell explored the self-absorption paradox in relation to private self-consciousness or attention to internal aspects of the self. They concluded that the relationship of self-awareness to psychological distress derived from a ruminative aspect of private self-consciousness, whereas the relationship of self-awareness to psychological well-being was attributed to self-contemplative reflection.\n\nHypochondria\n"}
{"id": "23914129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23914129", "title": "Seoak Seowon", "text": "Seoak Seowon\n\nThe Seoak Seowon is a \"seowon\" located in the neighborhood of Seoak-dong, Gyeongju, North Gyeongsang Province, South Korea. Seowon was a type of local academy during the Joseon Dynasty (1392–1897). It was established by local Confucian scholars especially Yi Jeong (李楨 1578 - 1607) in 1651, the second year of King Hyojong's reign, to commemorate the virtue and scholarly achievements of scholar Seol Chong, and Choe Chi-won and General Kim Yu-sin. The enshrined people played important roles in the unification of Three Kingdoms of Korea into the Silla kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15271530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15271530", "title": "The Internationale Hegel-Vereinigung", "text": "The Internationale Hegel-Vereinigung\n\nThe Internationale Hegel-Vereinigung (International Hegel Association) is a non-profit organization, founded in 1962. Its mission is to promote the study of G.W.F. Hegel's philosophy on at least two different fronts: (1) Hegel's system and its parts; and (2) Hegel's philosophical beginnings and history as it leads up to modern theory.\n\nTo accomplish these tasks the International Hegel Association organizes smaller meetings at regular intervals to discuss different topics of Hegel's philosophy, as well as an International Congress every six years, designing the most comprehensive international participation possible.\n\nThe International Hegel Association has more than 250 members worldwide. Since March, 2007, its president has been Professor Axel Honneth (Frankfurt), with offices at the Philosophical Seminar of the University of Heidelberg.\n\nAll who are occupied with Hegel's Philosophy are invited to join, particularly those who seek scientific advancement for and from this study.\n\nThe periodical publication of the International Hegel Association appeared until 1980 as a supplement of the \"Hegel Studien\" and after 1980 has been published independently by the Klett Cotta Publishing House, Stuttgart.\n\n"}
{"id": "57381748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57381748", "title": "The Principles of Exercise Therapy", "text": "The Principles of Exercise Therapy\n\nThe Principles of Exercise Therapy is a 1953 book by M. Dena Gardiner. \n\nThe Principles of Exercise Therapy book is explained in detailed about exercises. Physical training is physical activity that improves physical condition and health. Physical training protects the health of a person and regulates the patient's health. Physical training mechanics plays a major medicine. Walking, running, swimming, ice skating, bicycling, playing, dance, yoga, and physical exercise are all physical exercises. Heart disease, diabetes and obesity can be controlled by exercise. The book also alleges that exercise helps to reduce mental retardation and reduce the risk of mental retardation in the exercise. It is essential to exercise immune organs or adequate vascular organs in a coherent blood circulation.\n\nThe \"British Journal of Occupational Therapy\" reviewed the book in 1954, stating that \"Miss Gardiner is to be congratulated on an excellent piece of work which should prove invaluable to all engaged in the rehabilitation of the physically unfit.\" \"Physical Therapy\" also reviewed the work.\n\nIt has been used as a university text.\n\nLibrary holdings of \"The Principles of Exercise Therapy\"\n"}
{"id": "37026960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37026960", "title": "Timeline of scientific thought", "text": "Timeline of scientific thought\n\nThis is a list of important landmarks in the history of systematic philosophical inquiry and scientific analysis of phenomena. The list seeks to highlight important stages in the development of thoughts and analysis towards conceptualizing and understanding phenomena. This list seeks to include all major landmarks in systematic analysis of phenomena across disciplines that seeks to implement formal methods and systematic formal analysis of phenomena. Thus it seeks to list major landmarks across all scientific philosophy and methodological sciences including physical sciences, scientific philosophy, formal disciplines or pure sciences, behavioural sciences, social sciences, biological sciences, life sciences and other related disciplines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "163720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163720", "title": "Tommaso Campanella", "text": "Tommaso Campanella\n\nTommaso Campanella OP (; 5 September 1568 – 21 May 1639), baptized Giovanni Domenico Campanella, was a Dominican friar, Italian philosopher, theologian, astrologer, and poet.\n\nBorn in Stignano (in the county of Stilo) in the province of Reggio di Calabria in Calabria, southern Italy, Campanella was a child prodigy. Son of a poor and illiterate cobbler, he entered the Dominican Order before the age of fourteen, taking the name of fra' Tommaso in honour of Thomas Aquinas. He studied theology and philosophy with several masters.\n\nEarly on, he became disenchanted with the Aristotelian orthodoxy and attracted by the empiricism of Bernardino Telesio (1509–1588), who taught that knowledge is sensation and that all things in nature possess sensation. Campanella wrote his first work, \"Philosophia sensibus demonstrata\" (\"Philosophy demonstrated by the senses\"), published in 1592, in defence of Telesio.\n\nIn 1590 he was in Naples where he was initiated in astrology; astrological speculations would become a constant feature in his writings. Campanella's heterodox views, especially his opposition to the authority of Aristotle, brought him into conflict with the ecclesiastical authorities. Denounced to the Inquisition, he was arrested in Padua in 1594 and cited before the Holy Office in Rome, he was confined in a convent until 1597.\n\nAfter his liberation, Campanella returned to Calabria, where he was accused of leading a conspiracy against the Spanish rule in his hometown of Stilo. \nCampanella's aim was to establish a society based on the community of goods and wives, for on the basis of the prophecies of Joachim of Fiore and his own astrological observations, he foresaw the advent of the Age of the Spirit in the year 1600. Betrayed by two of his fellow conspirators, he was captured and incarcerated in Naples, where he was tortured on the rack. Even from the confinement of the jail, Campanella managed to influence the intellectual history of the early seventeenth century, by maintaining epistolary contacts with European philosophers and scientists, Neapolitan cultural circles, and Caravaggio's commissioners.\nFinally, Campanella made a full confession and would have been put to death if he had not feigned madness and set his cell on fire. He was tortured further (a total of seven times) and then, crippled and ill, was sentenced to life imprisonment.\nCampanella spent twenty-seven years imprisoned in Naples, in various fortresses. \nDuring his detention, he wrote his most important works: \"The Monarchy of Spain\" (1600), \"Political Aphorisms\" (1601), \"Atheismus triumphatus\" (\"Atheism Conquered\", 1605–1607), \"Quod reminiscetur\" (1606?), \"Metaphysica\" (1609–1623), \"Theologia\" (1613–1624), and his most famous work, \"The City of the Sun\" (originally written in Italian in 1602; published in Latin in Frankfurt (1623) and later in Paris (1638).\n\nHe defended Galileo Galilei in his first trial with his work \"The Defense of Galileo\" (written in 1616, published in 1622). During the time before his second trial, September 25, 1632, Campanella wrote to Galileo that:\nTo my great disgust I have heard that wrathful theologians of the Congregation aim to prohibit the Dialogues of Your Excellency, and [that] no one will be present who understands mathematics or recondite things. Be aware that while Your Excellency does state that it was appropriate to prohibit the theory of the earth's motion, you are not obliged to believe that the reasons of those who contradicted you are good. This is a theological rule, and is proved by the second Council of Nicaea which decreed that \"Angelorum imagines depingi debent, quam‘am vere corporei sunt\" (Images of angels must be depicted as they are in the flesh): while the decree is valid, the reasoning behind it is not, since all scholars today say angels are incorporeal. There are many other fundamental reasons. I fear violence from people who do not understand this. Our Pope makes a lot of noise against this and speaks as the Pope, but you haven't heard about that, nor can think about it. In my opinion Your Excellency should write to the Grand Duke of Tuscany, that since they are putting Dominicans, Jesuits, Theatines, and secular priests who are against your books in this council, they should also admit Father Castelli and me.\n\nCampanella was finally released from prison in 1626, through Pope Urban VIII, who personally interceded on his behalf with Philip IV of Spain. Taken to Rome and held for a time by the Holy Office, Campanella was restored to full liberty in 1629. He lived for five years in Rome, where he was Urban's advisor in astrological matters.\n\nIn 1634, however, a new conspiracy in Calabria, led by one of his followers, threatened fresh troubles. \nWith the aid of Cardinal Barberini and the French Ambassador de Noailles, he fled to France, where he was received at the court of Louis XIII with marked favour. Protected by Cardinal Richelieu and granted a liberal pension by the king, he spent the rest of his days in the convent of Saint-Honoré in Paris. His last work was a poem celebrating the birth of the future Louis XIV (\"Ecloga in portentosam Delphini nativitatem\").\n\nCampanella's \"De sensu rerum et magia\" (1620) partly inspired the first fully-fledged it-narrative in English, Charles Gildon's \"The Golden Spy\" (1709).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32499943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32499943", "title": "Troy Jollimore", "text": "Troy Jollimore\n\nTroy Jollimore is a poet, philosopher, and literary critic.\n\nTroy Jollimore was born in Liverpool, Nova Scotia and attended the University of King's College in Halifax, Nova Scotia. He earned his Ph.D. in Philosophy from Princeton University in 1999, under the direction of Harry Frankfurt and Gilbert Harman. He has lived in the U.S. since 1993 and is currently Professor of Philosophy at California State University, Chico. He has been an External Faculty Fellow at the Stanford Humanities Center (2006–07), the Stanley P. Young Fellow in Poetry at the Bread Loaf Writers' Conference (2012), and a Guggenheim Fellow (2013).\n\nJollimore's philosophical writings frequently concern ethical issues connected to personal relationships. His first book, \"Friendship and Agent-Relative Morality,\" was published in 2001; his second, \"Love's Vision\", appeared in 2011, and his third, \"On Loyalty,\" in 2012. He has also published on topics including the ethics of terrorism, the depiction of evil in literature, the nature of happiness, and so-called \"admirable immorality.\"\n\nHis first collection of poetry, \"Tom Thomson in Purgatory,\" won the National Book Critics Circle award for poetry in 2006. It was also nominated for the 2007 Poets' Prize, and individual poems in the collection received nominations for the Pushcart Prize. His second collection, \"At Lake Scugog,\" appeared in the Princeton Series of Contemporary Poets in 2011. His third, \"Syllabus of Errors,\" was published in the same series and was selected by the New York Times as one of the \"Best Poetry Books of 2015.\"\n\nJollimore's poems have appeared in publications including \"The New Yorker\", \"The Believer\", \"McSweeney's\", and \"Poetry\". He is also a frequent book reviewer, writing for the \"Washington Post\", the \"Chicago Tribune\", the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", the \"Boston Globe\", and the \"Boston Review\", among others.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24514642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24514642", "title": "Vianney Décarie", "text": "Vianney Décarie\n\nJoseph Fernand Lionel Vianney Décarie, , was a Canadian philosopher. He was born November 28, 1917, in Montreal, Canada and died there on September 6, 2009, of pneumonia.\n\nVianney Décarie was a descendant of an old Quebec family. His grandfather, Barthélémy Thélesphore Décarie, was a major landowner, whose farms stretched through the west end of present-day Montreal and the village of Notre Dame de Grace. The Décarie Expressway bears the family's name.\n\nAt 17, he won the Prix Colin de Rhétorique for the best marks in the province among the collèges classiques, the religious-run preparatory schools in Quebec.\n\nBy 1950, Décarie earned his doctorate and, in 1954, he received a Guggenheim Fellowship. He studied all of St. Thomas Aquinas's writing on Aristotle at the Widener Library of Harvard University.\n\nThe provincial government established the University of Montreal's École normale supérieure. In 1961, he was named director. The school offered a higher standard for teaching both university and high school instructors, and eventually became the university's faculty of education.\n\nHis work called for a more robust post-secondary system: a research council, better peer review and a body to implement best practices for university administrators; all of which preceded the Parent Commission.\n\nHe published \"L'object de la métaphysique selon Aristotle\", one of the most important books on the philosopher.\nHe obtained the Doctorat d'État from La Sorbonne and was featured in the pages of Paris Match.\n\nHe made enemies with his political writing and general exploration. There was still resistance to open-mindedness among the clergy who ran the university. A Le Devoir editorial criticized the university for not recognizing Pierre Trudeau's value; after Décarie complained to the rector of the university, Trudeau was hired.\n\nDécarie was an occasional writer for the political magazine Cité Libre.\n\nDécarie also played a role in the early career of Charles Taylor, whom he hired as a professor in the early 1960s.\n\nInternational philosophers such as Paul Ricoeur, Paul Vignaux and Henri-Irénée Marrou regularly spoke to his students. He was seen as an avant-garde Christians in 1960s philosophy..\n\nHe retired mandatorily at age 65. but continued to lecture, including at McGill University. He researched until two years before his death at age 91 when he suffered vascular dementia.\n\nHe was awarded the Order of Canada and the Order of Quebec, of the latter named a Grand Officer, for his work promoting secular education.\n\nHis widow is Thérèse Gouin Décarie, a pioneering researcher on early childhood development. His children are Pascale, Dominique, Jean-Claude and Emmanuel. He went to church every Sunday, but respected his children's religious choices.\n\nHis love of language was passionate, and was moved by the construction of ancient Greek words. That passion for language spilled over into a short-wave radio obsession, listening to foreign broadcasts.\n\n"}
{"id": "4329535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4329535", "title": "Vimalakirti", "text": "Vimalakirti\n\nVimalakīrti ( ' \"stainless, undefiled\" + ' \"fame, glory, reputation\") is the central figure in the \"\", which presents him as the ideal Mahayana Buddhist upāsaka (\"lay practitioner\") and a contemporary of Gautama Buddha (6th to 5th century BCE). There is no mention of him in Buddhist texts until after (1st century BCE to 2nd century CE) revived Mahayana Buddhism in India.\n\nThe Vimalakīrti Nirdeśa Sūtra characterizes Vimalakīrti as a wealthy patron of Gautama Buddha. Unlike many other figures of the Mahayana literature, such as , he is generally taken to be a historical figure like Gautama Buddha, rather than mythic or legendary, and as such Vimalakīrti is not commonly venerated on altars or in tantric rituals, but as a prehistoric zen i.e. chan preacher. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "823236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=823236", "title": "Wason selection task", "text": "Wason selection task\n\nThe Wason selection task (or four-card problem) is a logic puzzle devised by Peter Cathcart Wason in 1966. It is one of the most famous tasks in the study of deductive reasoning. An example of the puzzle is:\n\nA response that identifies a card that need not be inverted, or that fails to identify a card that needs to be inverted, is incorrect. The original task dealt with numbers (even, odd) and letters (vowels, consonants).\n\nThe test is of special interest because people have a hard time solving it in most scenarios but can usually solve it correctly in certain contexts. In particular, researchers have found that the puzzle is readily solved when the imagined context is policing a social rule.\n\nThe correct response is to turn over the 8 and the brown card.\n\nThe rule was \"\"If\" the card shows an even number on one face, \"then\" its opposite face is red.\" Only a card with both an even number on one face \"and\" something other than red on the other face can invalidate this rule:\n\nThe interpretation of \"if\" here is that of the material conditional in classical logic, so this problem can be solved by choosing the cards using modus ponens (all even cards must be checked to ensure they are red) and modus tollens (all non-red cards must be checked to ensure they are non-even).\n\nIn Wason's study, not even 10% of subjects found the correct solution. This result was replicated in 1993.\n\nSome authors have argued that participants do not read \"if... then...\" as the material conditional, since the natural language conditional is not the material conditional. (See also the paradoxes of the material conditional for more information.) However one interesting feature of the task is how participants react when the classical logic solution is explained:\nThis latter comment is also controversial, since it does not explain whether the subjects regarded their previous solution incorrect, or whether they regarded the problem sufficiently vague to have two interpretations.\n\nAs of 1983, experimenters had identified that success on the Wason selection task was highly content-dependent, but there was no theoretical explanation for which content elicited mostly correct responses and which ones elicited mostly incorrect responses.\n\nEvolutionary psychologists Leda Cosmides and John Tooby (1992) identified that the selection task tends to produce the \"correct\" response when presented in a context of social relations. For example, if the rule used is \"If you are drinking alcohol then you must be over 18\", and the cards have an age on one side and beverage on the other, e.g., \"16\", \"drinking beer\", \"25\", \"drinking coke\", most people have no difficulty in selecting the correct cards (\"16\" and \"beer\"). In a series of experiments in different contexts, subjects demonstrated consistent superior performance when asked to police a social rule involving a benefit that was only legitimately available to someone who had qualified for that benefit. Cosmides and Tooby argued that experimenters have ruled out alternative explanations, such as that people learn the rules of social exchange through practice and find it easier to apply these familiar rules than less-familiar rules.\n\nAccording to Cosmides and Tooby, this experimental evidence supports the hypothesis that a Wason task proves to be easier if the rule to be tested is one of social exchange (\"in order to receive benefit X you need to fulfill condition Y\") and the subject is asked to police the rule, but is more difficult otherwise. They argued that such a distinction, if empirically borne out, would support the contention of evolutionary psychologists that human reasoning is governed by context-sensitive mechanisms that have evolved, through natural selection, to solve specific problems of social interaction, rather than context-free, general-purpose mechanisms. In this case, the module is described as a specialized cheater-detection module.\n\nDavies et al. (1995) have argued that Cosmides and Tooby's argument in favor of context-sensitive, domain-specific reasoning mechanisms as opposed to general-purpose reasoning mechanisms is theoretically incoherent and inferentially unjustified. Von Sydow (2006) has argued that we have to distinguish deontic and descriptive conditionals, but that the logic of testing deontic conditionals is more systematic (cf. Beller, 2001) and depend on one's goals (cf. Sperber & Girotto, 2002). However, in response to Kanazawa (2010), Kaufman et al. (2011) gave 112 subjects a 70-item computerized version of the contextualized Wason Card Selection Task proposed by Cosmides and Tooby (1992) and found instead that \"performance on non-arbitrary, evolutionarily familiar problems is more strongly related to \"g\" than performance on arbitrary, evolutionarily novel problems\", and writing for \"Psychology Today\", Kaufman concluded instead that \"It seems that general intelligence is very much compatible with evolutionary psychology.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40854186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40854186", "title": "William MacAskill", "text": "William MacAskill\n\nWilliam MacAskill (born William Crouch; March 24, 1987) is a Scottish philosopher, ethicist, and one of the originators of the effective altruism movement. He is a research fellow at the Global Priorities Institute at Oxford. MacAskill is the co-founder and president of 80,000 Hours, the co-founder and vice-president of Giving What We Can, and the co-founder of the Centre for Effective Altruism. He is the author of the book Doing Good Better, Effective Altruism and a Radical New Way to Make a Difference.\n\nMacAskill earned his BA in philosophy at Jesus College, Cambridge, his BPhil at St Edmund Hall, Oxford, and his DPhil in philosophy at St Anne's College, Oxford in 2013 (spending a year as a visiting student at Princeton University), supervised by John Broome and Krister Bykvist. He then took up a junior research fellowship at Emmanuel College, Cambridge, before taking an associate professorship at Lincoln College, Oxford.\n\nMacAskill’s research has two main focuses. The first addresses the issue of how one ought to make decisions under normative uncertainty; in addition to a DPhil on the topic, he has published on this issue in Ethics, Mind, and The Journal of Philosophy.\n\nMacAskill’s second research focus is on effective altruism. His book on the topic, \"Doing Good Better,\" was published in 2015, and reviewed favorably in The London Review of Books, The Guardian, and The New York Times.\n\nIn it, he argues that many of the ways people think about doing good achieve very little, but that by applying data and scientific reasoning to the normally sentimental world of doing good, opportunities to have a huge positive impact can be found. \n\nIn the book MacAskill makes controversial claims such as the fact that fair trade does very little to help the poorest farmers, that boycotting sweatshops might make things worse for the global poor and that people who pursue high-income careers such as plastic surgeons or wall street bankers could do more good than charity workers. \n\nMacAskill's argument that young idealists should work for Wall Street has been the subject of a \"New York Times\" op-ed by David Brooks. Brooks argued that, while effective altruists may start earning to give in order to realize their deepest commitments, their values may erode over time, becoming progressively less altruistic. In addition, Brooks objected to the view on which altruists should turn themselves \"into a machine for the redistribution of wealth.\"\n\nIn 2016, MacAskill appeared on the podcast “Waking Up” with Sam Harris, as well as the “Tim Ferriss Show” with Tim Ferriss. \n\nIn 2018, MacAskill gave a TED talk on effective altruism at the TED conference in Vancouver, the talk was released on the 12th of September, 2018.\n\nMacAskill (born Crouch) is also known for having argued that men should consider changing their last names when they get married; he and his fiancée changed their name to \"MacAskill\", her maternal grandmother's maiden name.\n\nHe lives in Oxford.\n\n"}
{"id": "42734366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42734366", "title": "Yrjö Reenpää", "text": "Yrjö Reenpää\n\nYrjö Reenpää (Renqvist until 1935; 18. July 1894 – 18. December 1976, Helsinki, Finland) was a Finnish physiologist and philosopher and professor of physiology in University of Helsinki. He developed general sensory physiology on the bases of Kantian epistemology, psycho-physics and phenomenology.\n\nYrjö Reenpää’s father Alvar Renqvist was owner and director of a publishing house, professor, and parliamentarian. Having graduated from the high school in 1912 Yrjö Reenpää started to study medicine in University of Helsinki. Very early he was involved in research work focused on physiology under the supervision of Robert Tigerstedt, the first professor of physiology in University of Helsinki. He wrote his doctoral thesis on the physiology of taste with the title Über den Geschmack in 1918. After having served in the medical staff of the Finnish Armed Forces during the war, he returned to the Department of Physiology in University of Helsinki to continue research in sensory physiology. In line with other scientists in the first half of the 20th century, he paid several visits to physiology departments in German universities establishing lifelong contacts to sensory physiologists like Max von Frey, Johannes von Kries and [Viktor von Weizsäcker] among others. After [Robert Tigerstedt]’s successor his son Carl Tigerstedt’s death in 1927 Reenpää was nominated to the chair of physiology, the position he held until his retirement in 1962.\n\nHaving started with experimental research on sensory physiology in the fields of taste, tactile sense, muscular sense and the sense of movement, he proceeded to deal with the principal topic of general sensory physiology that of psycho-physics. Mapping the relations of measured sensation magnitudes to stimulus parameters revealed to him the structure of the phenomenal perceptual manifold and its metrics. He outlined in an axiomatic form the psycho-physical relation fitting with Kantian epistemology and with phenomenology as presented in the first half of the century by Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger among others. Applying psycho-physical methods he and his collaborators, R. M. Bergström, later his successor, Alvar Wilska, and Eeva Jalavisto among others, obtained experimental evidence of the structures of perceptual manifolds in various sensory modalities. After his retirement he extended the philosophical considerations to include the psycho-physiological issues of mind-matter relation and discussed psycho-physiological parallelism in cases relating perceptions to evoked response data particularly in audition in the studies by Wolf Dieter Keidel and his collaborators in the University of Erlangen, where Reenpää had a visiting professorship.\n\nOn the bases of the studies in sensory and observational physiology Reenpää conceived that sensory perceptions constitute the fundamental knowledge base also to the natural sciences. According to him, concepts can be traced back to phenomenal observations in line with the [Kantian tables of judgment and categories]. Concepts arise from the noumenal contents of observations by extracting them out of their temporal frame of the act of perception, as purely timeless entities. The [psycho-physical] relation can according to Reenpää be regarded as an issue of simultaneous isomorphism based on conceptual correspondence rather than possessing a causal relation.\n\nIn addition to his scientific activities Yrjö Reenpää was among others the president of the Finnish Medical Society (Duodecim) in 1933-1936, president of the Nordic Society of Physiology in 1936-1939, chairman of the Finnish Academy of Science and Letters (1942-1943). He was also nominated as the member of Heidelberg Academy for Sciences and Humanities (1939). He was one of the founding members of the Finnish Cultural Foundation and had a position as its first chairman (1937-1953). The Foundation nominated the annual series of lectures for invited outstanding foreign scientists, as Yrjö Reenpää Memorial Lecture since 1979.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16067124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16067124", "title": "Zen Center of Los Angeles", "text": "Zen Center of Los Angeles\n\nThe Zen Center of Los Angeles (ZCLA), temple name Buddha Essence Temple, is a Zen center founded by Hakuyu Taizan Maezumi in 1967 that practices in the White Plum lineage.\n\nZCLA observes a daily schedule of zazen, Buddhist services, and work practice. The Center's programs include introductory classes, sesshin, workshops and training periods, as well as face-to-face meetings with Abbot Wendy Egyoku Nakao and other Center teachers. The sangha practices zazen and koan training in the Maezumi-Glassman lineage.\n\nZCLA's mission is to know the Self, maintain the precepts, and serve others. The Center serves by providing the teaching, training, and transmission of Zen Buddhism. ZCLA's vision is an enlightened world in which suffering is transcended, all beings live in harmony, everyone has enough, deep wisdom is realized, and compassion flows unhindered.\n\n\n"}
