{"id": "57626617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57626617", "title": "Alauddin Marri", "text": "Alauddin Marri\n\nAlauddin Marri (; born 28 February 1979) is a Pakistani businessman and social worker who served as caretaker Chief Minister of Balochistan, in office from 8 June 2018 to 19 August 2018.\n\nHe was born on 28 February 1979 in Quetta, Balochistan, Pakistan. He completed his early education from Tameer-i-Nau Public School and from the Tameer-i-Nau Public College in Quetta, and graduated from the University of Balochistan.\n\nHe is from Mastung District of Balochistan, Pakistan and hails from Marri tribe.<ref name=\"geo/7june2018\"></ref>\n\nHe was recommended by the outgoing Balochistan government but consensus between opposition and government could not be reached and the matter to appoint him to the post was decided by the Election Commission of Pakistan on 7 June 2018.\n\nChief Minister of Balochistan\n"}
{"id": "47102363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47102363", "title": "Ayeneh taudani", "text": "Ayeneh taudani\n\nAyeneh taudani, or mirror-throwing, is one of the Nowruz traditions in northern regions of Iran. In the last days of Esfand, the last month in the Jalali calendar, a host of the youth gather together and contribute in making a double-face square mirror decorated and framed by primroses, violets, and green sticks of Shamshad. The party waits for the night to come and after dinner time they the mirror to a long piece of rope. Then all of the party goes to the neighborhood and throws the mirror, which is very well-cushioned by flowers and plants, through the intendedly left-ajar door into the middle of the house with a bunch of flowers. A member of the house brings back the mirror to the party and gifts them with comfits, halva and other food stuff especially prepared for Nowruz.\n"}
{"id": "51775271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51775271", "title": "Bangkok Malay", "text": "Bangkok Malay\n\nBangkok Malay also referred as Bangkok Melayu or Nayu is the local variant of Malay spoken by ethnic Malays living in Bangkok and its surrounding areas. It arose after the intermingling of Malay community from Southern Thailand and slowly diverge as a distinct variety of Malay. Despite historical Malay presence in what is now Bangkok dated as early as Ayutthaya era, the dialect nonetheless only began to develop after the settlement of deportees from Kedah, Kelantan, Pattani, Satun and Yaring dating from 1786.\n\nThe speakers of Bangkok Malay can be found throughout the city, with higher concentration in Malay enclaves in Thon Buri, Thung Khru, Phra Pradaeng, Bang Kho Laem, Phra Khanong, Khlong Saen Saep, Min Buri, Nong Chok, Bang Nam Priao, Chachoengsao, Thon Buri and Pom Prap Sattru Phai. \n\nThere are several variations of the dialect, owing to various waves and origin of Malay settlement in the city. The dialect was largely based on Pattani Malay with visible divergent from the original spoken in the south, this allowed Bangkok Malay to constitute as a separate dialect from Pattani Malay. Another notable sub-dialect of Bangkok Malay spoken in Bang Bua Thong and Tha It districts demonstrating a strong Kedahan influence, this correlates to the fact that most Malay people from these areas are the descendant of deportees that were bought from a village in western Yala in the 18th century, who spoke with a Kedahan dialect.\n\nFollowing the rise of urbanism and the assimilation with the larger Thai majority, the language is now highly confined with adult over the age of 40 with varied fluency among younger generations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33585316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33585316", "title": "Budza language", "text": "Budza language\n\nBudza or Buja (Embudja, Limbudza) is a Bantu language of the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nThere are several neighbouring minor languages which Maho (2009) lists as closely related: C371 Tembo (\"Motembo\" – distinguish Kitembo), C372 Kunda, C373 Gbuta (\"Egbuta\") and C374 Babale. Only Tembo, with 5,000 speakers, has been assigned an ISO code.\n"}
{"id": "471274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471274", "title": "Cabin boy", "text": "Cabin boy\n\nA cabin boy or ship's boy is a boy (in the sense of low-ranking young male employee, not always a minor in the juridical sense) who waits on the officers and passengers of a ship, especially running errands for the captain.\nCabin boys were usually 13–16 years old, but sometimes as young as 8, and also helped the cook in the ship's kitchen and carried buckets of food from the ship's kitchen to the forecastle where the ordinary seamen ate. They would have to run from one end of the ship to the other carrying messages and become familiar with the sails, lines and ropes and the use of each in all sorts of weather. They would have to scramble up the rigging into the yards whenever the sails had to be trimmed. They would occasionally stand watch like other crewmen or act as helmsman in good weather, holding the wheel to keep the ship steady on her course.\n\nSeveral prominent British Royal Navy officers began their career as cabin boys. The list includes officers that achieved an admiralty rank before 1801. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8397234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8397234", "title": "Caste system among Indian Christians", "text": "Caste system among Indian Christians\n\nThe caste system among Indian Christians often reflects stratification by sect, location, and the castes of their predecessors. The caste system today is beyond Hinduism (Hindu society) and it exists in most religions in India.\n\nCaste distinctions among Indian Christians are breaking down at about the same rate as those among Indians belonging to other religions. There exists evidence to show that Christian individuals have mobility within their respective castes. But, in some cases, social inertia causes old traditions and biases against other castes to remain, causing caste segregation to persist among Indian Christians.\n\nChristian priests, nuns, Dalits and similar groups are also found in Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Nepal.\n\nThere are sections of Christians in India like in Odisha, West Bengal, etc. who do not belong to any caste having lost caste at conversion. Sometimes, this practise from generations has contributed to an integrated society.\n\nRoman Catholics in Kerala consist of Latin Catholics, Syro-Malabar Catholic Church & Syro-Malankara Catholic Church. Syrian Christians in Kerala consist of the members of the Syro-Malabar Catholic Church and Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, both \"sui iuris\" Eastern Catholic Churches under Roman Catholic church, as well as the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church, Malankara Jacobite Syrian Orthodox Church, Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church, Chaldean Syrian Church, and Syrian Christians of the Madhya Kerala Diocese of the Church of South India, which is a united autonomous Indian church within the Anglican Communion.\n\nIn the Indian state of Goa, mass conversions were carried out by Portuguese Latin Catholic missionaries from the 16th century onwards. The Hindu converts retained their caste practices due to the involuntary nature of the mass conversions. This led to a lack of conscientious belief in Christian practices which perpetuated the existence of the social stratification. The Portuguese colonists, even during the Goan Inquisition, did not do anything to change the caste system. Thus, the original Hindu Brahmins in Goa, the only caste that could be ordained, now became Christian \"Bamonns\" and the Kshatriya and Vaishya Vanis became Christian noblemen called \"Chardos\" . Those Vaishya Vanis who could not get admitted into the \"Chardo\" caste became \"Gauddos\", and Shudras became \"Sudirs\". Finally, the Dalits or \"Untouchables\" who converted to Christianity became \"Maharas\" and \"Chamars\" (an appellation of the anti-Dalit ethnic slur \"Chamaar\").\n\nChristians in the state belong to the Vellalar, Udaiyar, Paravar, Nadar, Adi Dravidar, and other Castes. Mass conversion of Paravars date back to the Portuguese era and the conflict over the Pearl Fishery Coast between the Paravars and Arabs in the 15th century A.D.The Paravars converted 'en masse' to Christianity and became the subjects of the Portuguese King. The Nadar conversion to Christianity dates back to the British Colonial era in the 18th-century. The first to initiate the conversion was Mylaudy Village by Sir Ringle Taube. Later in the 19th century, the Vellalars, the Udaiyars and Schedule castes embraced Christianity. The cohesion of \"jatis\" among caste Christians (e.g. Paravas) and the strength of caste leadership are noted by scholars to be much stronger than comparable predominantly Hindu castes in Tamil Nadu.\n\nIndian law does not provide benefits for \"Untouchable Christians\", however Christians have been agitating for the same rights given to Hindu, Buddhist, and Sikh Scheduled castes. Despite the activists point of discrimination due to social tag or status, which doesn't go away, K. G. Balakrishnan asked:\n\"Could the Christians admit that they practise caste system and that Dalits (among them) face social discrimination requiring reservation to uplift their cause? This is not all that easy.\"\n\nSome Christians also oppose the proposed labeling of \"Christian Scheduled castes\" because they feel their identity may be assimilated. Pastor Salim Sharif of the Church of North India notes \"We are becoming another class and caste.\"\n\nPresently in India, more than 42 per cent of Indian Christians are Dalits, but the higher caste Catholics control 90 per cent of the Catholic churches administrative jobs. According to Dalit Christians website, out of the 156 catholic bishops, only six are from lower castes. \n\nUntouchable Catholics have spoken out against discrimination against them by members of the Catholic Church. A Dalit activist with a \"nom-de-plume\" of Bama Faustina has written books that are critical of the discrimination by the nuns and priests in Churches in South India (CSI). During 2003 ad limina visits of the bishops of India, Pope John Paul II criticized the caste discrimination in the Catholic Church in India when addressing bishops of the ecclesiastical provinces of Madras-Mylapore, Madurai and Pondicherry-Cuddalore, the three archbishops of Tamil Nadu. He went on to say: \"It is the Church's obligation to work unceasingly to change hearts, helping all people to see every human being as a child of God, a brother or sister of Christ, and therefore a member of our own family\".\n\nMass conversions of lower caste Hindus took place in order to escape the discrimination. The main Dalit groups that participated in these conversions were Chuhras of Punjab, Chamars of North India (Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh), Vankars of Gujarat and Pulayas of Kerala. They believed that “Christianity is a true religion; a desire for protection from oppressors and, if possible, material aid; the desire for education for their children; and the knowledge that those who have become Christians had improved”. Christianity was thought to be egalitarian and could provide mobility away from the caste.\nEven after conversion, Dalits were discriminated against due to the “residual leftover” practice of caste discrimination. This is attributed to the predominant Hindu society they lived in.The environment and power structures of the society they engaged in was the same. Sometimes the only change seen was their personal religious identity. In many cases they were still referred to by their Hindu caste names. Example Pulayans in Kerala, Pariah in Tamil Nadu and Madigas in Andra Pradesh.\n\nThe first people converted by Jesuits of the Madura Mission to Christianity were members of Nadars, Maravars and Pallars (untouchables). Caste based occupations held by Dalits also show a clear segregation which perpetuated even after becoming Christian. Occupational patterns (including manual scavenging) are prevalent among Dalit Christians in north-west India are quite similar to that of Dalit Hindus. Occupational discrimination for Dalit Christians goes so far as to restrict not only employment but also clean sanitation and water. Inter caste marriage among Christians is also not commonly practiced. For example, Syrian Christians in Kerala do not marry Dalit Christians. Even intermarriage between Bamons and Sudras in Goa is quite uncommon. Sometimes marriage to a higher class Hindu is preferred to marriage to a Dalit Christian. Discrimination against Dalit Christians also remained in interactions and mannerisms between castes for example ‘lower caste christians’ had to close their mouth when talking to a Syrian Christian. Even after conversion segregation, restriction, hierarchy and graded ritual purity remained. Data shows that there is more discrimination and less class mobility in rural areas.\n\nIn many cases, the churches themselves perpetuated the caste system. Some churches referred to the Dalits as ‘New Christians'. It is a derogatory term that classifies the Dalit Christians in order to allow other Christians to look down upon them. In many churches in south India Dalits had either separate seating or had to attend the mass from outside. Dalit Christians are also grossly underrepresented amongst the clergy. There are a few churches that accept the reality of castes in Christianity and discrimination towards dalits. Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India and the National Council of Churches in India have backed changes in the church and law to benefit Dalit Christians.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20628416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20628416", "title": "Cat Aficionado Association", "text": "Cat Aficionado Association\n\nThe Cat Aficionado Association (CAA) is China's largest registry of pedigreed cats and is recognized internationally in conjunction with American Cat Fanciers Association (ACFA) as the premiere pedigreed cat registering association in Asia. Headquartered in Beijing, China, CAA was established officially March 3, 2001.\n\nTo enter the international arena, CAA established a partnership with ACFA in 2002. CAA abides by ACFA standards, and invites ACFA judges to preside over its official competitive events.\n\nCAA's official goal is to publicize and promote pedigreed breeds of cats and to propagate the well-being of all non-pedigree cats, domestic, stray, feral or wild. CAA also promotes one of China's most popular native breeds, the Dragon Li (). The CAA logo design depicts a stylized Dragon Li.\n\nCAA is evolving as an organization, with various programs such as cat rescue, and a trap–neuter–return (TNR) effort for thousands of documented feral and abandoned felines throughout Asia. CAA also trains and assists catteries, and purebred feline owners in registering pedigrees.\n\nLike most such organizations, it also organizes competitive cat shows. CAA's third show (January 1–3, 2004, in Beijing) was briefly documented, in English, by a visiting Canadian ACFA member in 2004 on a website, including photographs of two CAA breeds, the Chinese White and the Dragon Li; ACFA's Dolores Kennedy and Barb Belanger were guest all-breed judges at the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "3236658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3236658", "title": "Chic Anderson", "text": "Chic Anderson\n\nCharles David (Chic) Anderson (December 17, 1931 – March 24, 1979) was an American sportscaster and public address announcer specializing in Thoroughbred horse racing. He was one of American sports' most famous PA voices, and remains among its most revered race callers.\n\nA native of Evansville, Indiana, Anderson got his start in horse racing in 1951, working part-time in the mutuel department at Dade Park (now Ellis Park Racecourse) in nearby Henderson, Kentucky. Eight years later, in 1959, Anderson became track announcer.\n\nThe following year, in 1960, Anderson also became the public-address voice of Churchill Downs, home of the Kentucky Derby. He would call 16 Runs for the Roses between then and 1977. During that stretch, Anderson also worked as a Midwest sports anchor, gaining the TV experience that would serve him well nationally in the 1970s.\n\nIn addition to Ellis and Churchill, Anderson worked at Oaklawn Park, Santa Anita Park, Ak-Sar-Ben and Arlington Park racetracks in the 1960s and 1970s.\n\nStarting in 1969, Anderson's Derby calls would not only be heard by Churchill patrons but also on the CBS Television Network, where he assumed Jack Drees' role on the network's coverage of all three Triple Crown races, as well as other thoroughbred events. Anderson would eventually gain a level of fame as a national race caller exceeded only by that of Clem McCarthy and Ted Husing.\n\nBecause of his TV experience and knowledge of horses, CBS adopted him as a full-fledged member of their sportscasting team for big races, providing jockey interviews and insights as well as the race calls.\n\nAnderson would remain at Churchill Downs until May 1977. After calling Seattle Slew's victory in the Derby for both Churchill and ABC Television, he moved his base of operations to the New York Racing Association tracks (including Belmont Park), succeeding NYRA race caller Dave Johnson. That allowed him to call Slew's victory in the 1977 Belmont Stakes for the racetrack, which likely makes Anderson the only man to call two Triple Crown races on the tracks' public-address systems in one year.\n\nDuring his NYRA tenure, Anderson's daily calls would not only be heard by fans at the track, but also on WCBS Radio.\n\nIn fall 1978, Anderson called Slew's last race, the Stuyvesant Handicap at Aqueduct Racetrack, live for CBS Television, WCBS radio and, the Big A fans. As Slew, ridden by Angel Cordero, Jr., roared down the stretch far enough in front to ensure a win, Anderson emoted. \"Ladies and gentlemen, here he is, the champion of the world, Seattle Slew!\"\n\nFor CBS Television, Anderson authored the two most famous calls in horse-racing history—and two of the most famous sportscasts in TV history—the Triple Crown clinchings in the Belmont Stakes of 1973 and 1978.\n\nHe was behind the CBS mic on June 9, 1973, when Derby and Preakness Stakes winner Secretariat tried to become the first horse in a quarter century to win the Crown. A stunned Anderson punctuated Big Red's powerful move on the final turn of the '73 Belmont this way, focusing on Secretariat while still keeping tabs on the other horses' positions:\n\nA few minutes later, reviewing the videotape of Secretariat's stretch romp, Anderson humbly admitted it was hard to count lengths as Secretariat raced toward home. \"I said twenty-five,\" Anderson said. \"It could conceivably have been more.\"\n\nIn fact, the champion's winning margin was fully 31 lengths—a distance it took careful examination of videotape and trackside photographs to measure. Secretariat was so far ahead when he crossed the finish line that the TV camera operator had to pan to the left to pick up the rest of the field, in lieu of leaving an \"empty\" track in the viewer's line of sight for a few seconds.\n\nFive years later, for both CBS Sports and the Belmont Park fans, Anderson called a Belmont Stakes race that was as close as the 1973 Belmont was a romp.\n\nAffirmed and Alydar—who battled each other closely both as 2-year-old horses and in the 1978 Triple Crown races (with Affirmed prevailing barely in both the Derby and Preakness)—renewed their battle in that year's Belmont. They hooked up in earnest a half-mile into the race and held a virtual match race for the rest of the event.\n\nThen, shutting off the PA microphone (as track announcers did then) but keeping his CBS mic hot, he described the final moment of victory:\n\nAnderson's style as a public-address announcer—even when the PA call was also carried on TV—was low-key, almost robotic, at the start of a race. (On arena PA systems, rapid-fire calls often end up a blur to the ears of fans scattered throughout a track or stadium). Then Anderson would pick up a vibrant pace halfway through the race.\n\nAnderson used a more animated style at the start when his call aired only on TV, maintaining a brisk pace while remaining measured, avoiding the cliches and the screaming style other track announcers adopted in the 1980s and beyond.\n\nAnderson's only prominent mistake came in the 1975 Derby, which he called for both the Churchill fans and ABC Television.\n\nConfused by the similar silks of Foolish Pleasure and Prince Thou Art, he described Prince Thou Art as the leader during the late stages of the race, before correcting himself near the end. A newspaper headline on Anderson's rare error read \"Prince Thou Ain't\".\n\nHistory-minded observers compared it to a similar mistake that announcer Clem McCarthy had made during the running of the 1947 Preakness Stakes.\n\nAnderson died of a heart attack on March 24, 1979, at his home in Commack, New York, on Long Island. He was succeeded at both NYRA and CBS by his backup, Marshall Cassidy.\n"}
{"id": "58746927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58746927", "title": "Child labour in Brazil", "text": "Child labour in Brazil\n\nChild labor is one of Brazil's biggest social issues. According to data from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) in 2015, more than 2.7 million young people between 5 and 17 years of age work in the country, 79,000 of these children between 5 and 9 years of age. Brazilian law establishes 16 as the minimum age for entering the labor market and 14 to work as an apprentice.\n\nAbout 30% of child labor is in the agricultural sector; in terms of regions, 60% are in the North and Northeast regions. In terms of ethnicity, 65% are black children. In terms of gender, 70% of child laborers are male. According to the International Labor Organization (ILO), poverty is one of the main causes of child labor in the world, as is the case in Brazil. Children are forced to work in order to increase family income, putting aside studies and social life.\n\nSince the enactment of the 1988 Constitution which prohibits child labor, the Brazilian government has taken steps to reduce the prevalence of child labor, using international conventions as guidelines. Social movements such as the hashtag \"#ChegaDeTrabalhoInfantil\" were created to raise awareness of child labor in Brazil. Other steps included changes to labor laws, and added funding to welfare programs for families such as \"Bolsa Família\", a program by the Brazilian government to support poorer families in Brazil. The number of young people working decreased from about 8 million in 1992 to 5 million in 2003.\n\nDespite recent improvements, Brazil still accounts for a quarter of children working in Latin America. Between 2014 and 2015, there was a 13% increase in the number of working children under 10. In 2016, 1,238 reports of cases of child exploitation were registered in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Many cases of child labor in the informal economies went unrecorded, such as child prostitution or drug trafficking.\n\nIn Brazil's constitution, child labor is addressed under article 7, item 33. The item prohibits night work, as well as any work deemed \"dangerous or unhealthy\" for teenagers under 18 years. Minors under 16 are not allowed under the constitution to work at all, except for apprenticeships for minors 14 and up.\n\nHowever, on the international stage, definitions of child labor vary between organizations.\n\nThe term 'child labour', according to ILO, is defined as \"work that deprives children of their childhood, their potential and their dignity, and that is harmful to physical and mental development\". It refers to work that can cause damage to children mentally, physically, socially or morally, work that deprives children's ability to attend school, work that place heavy burdens on them alongside schoolwork. There is no universal definition of child labor according to ILO since the definition largely depends on the context of the working environment, the legal working age and the type of work engaged. Among all the forms of child labor, ILO defines child slavery, child prostitution, child crime-work (drug trafficking) and any work that jeopardizes the safety of children as the worst forms of child labor.\n\nUNICEF has different criteria for child labor. For children between 5 to 11 years old, actions are categorized as child labor if at least one hour of economic activity or at least 28 hours of domestic work was performed by them weekly. For children between 12 and 14 years of age, at least 14 hours of economic activity or at least 42 hours of economic activity and domestic work per week make them victims of child labor.\n\nChild labor issue has been a part of Brazilian history since 1500. However, because the notion of youth or child was not well defined until the middle of the nineteenth century in Brazil, there was limited information on child labor before the 20th century. Early documentations of Portuguese vessels indicated evidence of minors working in the 16th century for sea voyages as labor for immigrants from Portugal and other parts of Europe. Though children engaged in domestic work prior to the arrival of European settlers, the degree of child labor in Brazil worsened drastically after. The first organization to use minors as labor force was the Brazilian Navy during the Paraguay War. Data suggests over 600 children between age 9 to age 12 were on the battlefield. This involvement with military or contact with weapons characterizes some of the worst forms of child labor in Brazil, even in the present. Children in favelas are seen as valuable and desirable middlemen in drug trafficking since their minor status make them immune to legal prosecution according to the law. Not surprisingly, children were used widely as labor force during the slavery period, working on plantations for sugar productions. Slaveholders embraced the idea of making children of slaves work since the overall productivity increases without purchasing more slaves.\n\nIndustrialization in Brazil, starting from the late 19th century, carried on the exploitation of children post-slavery. Capitalists were willing to take in minors since there was no regulation against child labor and children are of low cost. In São Paulo, the center of industrialization where large workforces were demanded, there were advertisements published by textile sectors to recruit children in the mid-1870s. The majority of the working class of São Paulo was composed of poor immigrants, and the work of immigrant children was a valuable source of income that some families depended on. In 1890, 25 percent of São Paulo's textile industry labor force was made up of children. In Rio de Janeiro, 64 percent of workers in a textile factory were children in 1865. Children suffered physical injuries or death due to the harsh work engaged in, the poor working conditions, and the violent treatment from their business owners. Armando Dias, a minor worker in the textile industry, was killed by an electric shock during work in November 1913. When teenager Francisco Augusto de Fonseca didn't perform his job up to the owner's expectation, his face was brutally hit by the owner. Child labor during this period was seen as a necessity: capitalists exploited the low cost of minor workers and used them to suppress the wages for adult workers; poor families also needed children to work to support their life.\n\nAttempts to protect the rights of children and regulate child labor emerged during the late 19th century. There was a decree in 1891 that concerned minor employees in the factories of the Federal Capital. In 1912, the Brazilian Labour Confederation was established, pushing for restrictions on child labor. In 1917, workers in São Paulo went on strike, their demands including eradication of night work for workers under the age of 18 and total eradication of work for those under 14. In 1919, a law passed in São Paulo restricted legal working age to 14 years old. The constitutional amendments (1934,1937,1946) rendered any work performed by minors under 14 illegal. But during the military government ruling period, minimum working age was lowered to 12. The 1988 amendment, the 1998 amendment and a law in 2000 together made up of the current legal definition of child labor: prohibiting any form of hazardous work for minors under 18 and prohibiting any form of labor for minors under 16. The exception to this law is apprenticeships, which are allowed at 14.\n\nOn February 2, 2000, the government ratified ILO convention 182. On June 28 of the same year, the Brazilian government ratified ILO convention 138.\n\nNowadays, through achievements made by the country it is clear that the Brazilian governments demonstrate considerable commitment and dedication to eradicate child labor. The Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics conducts the Brazilian National Household Sample Survey (PNAD) annually, first administered in 1981. This survey boosts the availability of data on child labor reports in the region. In 2005, more than 2.9 million children under the age of 17 engaged in some form of labor. This figure represents 7.8% of the age group back in 2005.\n\nThe survey in 2016 indicates that 4.6% of the 5-17 age group (1.8 million out of 30 million) are working, which is a large improvement from 2005. In 2016, most of the minor employments are found in the age group 14-17. 0.2% of the 5-9 age group is working, 1.3% for the 10-13 age group, 6.4% for the 14-16 age group and 17% for the 16-17 age group. The extent to which child labor persists varies between regions. The North and the South have the highest child working rate at 5.7% and 6.3% respectively. For the age group under 14, the North and the Northeast have the highest rate at 1.5% and 1%. In terms of race, the black and brown (Preta e parda) population covers 64.1% of child labor as compared to the 35.9% of the white (Branca). In terms of gender, 65.3% are male children. 47.6% of children of 5–13 years are engaged in agricultural activities, while 21.4% of 14–17 years do so. In some cases agricultural duties are performed because they are seen as a part of the socialization process, but this does not negate the fact some children are forced to work in agriculture to compensate family incomes.\n\nDespite the fact that the percentage of child labor is gradually decreasing, many children in Brazil are still engaged in child labor, including in hazardous fields. Within the agricultural sector, children fish and harvest mollusks, produce rice, soy, tobacco, and are involved in charcoal production. Within the industrial sector, children work in quarries, produce bricks, and slaughter animals. In the service sector, children are found doing street work such as garbage scavenging. Child laborers doing street work also sometimes sell alcohol. Children are also made to work for criminal groups or engage in prostitution. Child sex tourism is common in coastal areas that usually attract tourists and girls from other South American countries are involved in commercial sex in Brazil.\n\nCurrently, the efforts put in to further reduce child labor are working towards Goal 8 of the Sustainable Development Goals which \"promotes sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all.\"\n\nThe Ministry of Labor (MTE) is the major government institution in charge of labor law enforcement. The responsibilities of this institution include conducting child labor inspections, enforcing child labor laws, and dispatching inspection teams (inspectors, labor prosecutors, Federal Police officers, and other law enforcement officials) to sites where potential child labor activity is suspected. However, existing gaps in the operations of MTE hinder the full enforcement of labor laws. 7,491 child labor inspections were conducted in the year 2017, but insufficient funding limits the abilities of regions where there are no local MTE offices to conduct inspections. In July 2017, inspectors were prevented from performing child labor inspections in the states of São Paulo and Rio Grande do Norte.\n\nThis plan reaffirms uncompromising commitment to defend the rights of children and adolescents, especially those who are in threatening situations where fundamental rights are violated. Specifically, this plan \"identifies strategies to prevent the sexual exploitation of children, protect children’s rights, and assist child victims\". The goals of the plan include:\n\n\nForced labor is an integral part of the child labor issue in Brazil. Some children are forced to do domestic work or play in the soccer clubs; some children are forced to produce coffee and manioc. The current version of the National Plan for the Eradication, introduced in 2008, establishes the policy framework in combating forced labor. Top goals of this plan include:\n\n\nEducation is believed to be the best solution to child labor issues to a certain extent. The National Education Plan is a demonstration of the determination of the Brazilian government to improve the quality and accessibility of education. This plan entails 20 goals encompassing basic education for children and also aims to promote the quality of higher education. For example, goal #14 of the plan states the objective to gradually increase the number of enrollments in graduate school.\n\nThere are many social programs in Brazil that aim to address child labor directly or indirectly. Some are funded by government, such as Bolsa Família, a family welfare program introduced during Lula's presidency. Some take the form of social media, gathering internet attention such as \"#ChegaDeTrabalhoInfantil (#stopchildlabor)\".\n\nThis program is a set of actions that aim to remove children and adolescents under 16 from early work, excluding apprenticeships from 14 years of age. Besides ensuring a direct transfer of income to families, the program offers the inclusion of children and young people in counseling and follow-up services. Attendance at school is a requirement. It is initiated and administered by the Ministry of Social Development. The Federal Government pays a monthly grant: of R $25 per child in activity for the family who withdraws the child labor, in municipalities, in rural or urban areas, with a population of less than 250,000 inhabitants; of R $40 per child, in urban activity, in capitals, metropolitan regions and municipalities with a population 250,000 inhabitants. The benefited family has to ensure a higher than 85% attendance of their kids above clearing them from child labor to receive the grant.\n\nBolsa Família is a social welfare program of the Government of Brazil, part of the Fome Zero network of federal assistance programs. Bolsa Família provides financial aid to poor Brazilian families; and if they have children, families must ensure that the children attend school and are vaccinated. If they exceed the total of permitted school absences, they are dropped from the program and their funds are suspended. In 2017, 93.1 percent of 6–15 years old achieve 85 percent school attendance; 82.3 percent of 16–17 years old met the minimum requirement of 75% school attendance. However, studies suggest that the program, while it has improved girls' school participation and educational performance, has had little impact on boys.\n\nIn 2017, the Public Ministry of Labor (MPT) began a campaign under the hashtag \"#StopChildLabor\" that seeks the engagement of Internet users in social networks, encouraging them to post the hashtag in support of the cause against child labor. The campaign received support from celebrities, including musicians Daniel, Chitãozinho and Xororó, former volleyball player Maurício Lima and former basketball player Hortência Marcari.\n"}
{"id": "15370256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15370256", "title": "Corruption in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Corruption in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nCorruption in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, once legendary, has diminished in recent years, but continues to exceed corruption in most states. The BBC's DRC country profile calls its recent history \"one of civil war and corruption.\" President Joseph Kabila established the Commission of Repression of Economic Crimes upon his ascension to power in 2001.\n\nMobutu Sese Seko ruled Zaire from 1965 to 1997, looting his country's wealth for personal use to such a degree that critics coined the term \"kleptocracy\". A relative once explained how the government illicitly collected revenue: \"Mobutu would ask one of us to go to the bank and take out a million. We'd go to an intermediary and tell him to get five million. He would go to the bank with Mobutu's authority, and take out ten. Mobutu got one, and we took the other nine.\" Mobutu institutionalized corruption to prevent political rivals from challenging his control, leading to an economic collapse in 1996. Mobutu allegedly stole up to US$4 billion while in office.\n\nIn 2017, Reuters unveiled a scheme involving overpriced biometric passports.\n\nIn 2015 Transparency International ranked the DRC 147 out of 167 countries in the Corruption Perception Index, tying Chad and the Republic of the Congo with a score of 22/100.\n\nLaurent Kabila led an insurgence group against Mobutu and quickly assumed power after Mobutu was overthrown. During this time period, Kabila issued a statement making himself president with near absolute power in the government. With people supporting him for overthrowing Mobutu, he was not initially met with much public opposition. However, Kabila's and his government's goals for the regime were said to be unclear and vague. He refused immediate elections in fear of the country returning to Mobutuism, and continued to postpone promised elections.The constitution was not changed, and he and his peers exploited resources for their personal benefit . Laurent Kabila, led a regime that upheld corruption through clientelism by appointing his clients as cabinet members . Under the Kabila regime, the DRC has failed to pull itself out of its “collapsed state” status from when Mobutu was in power . The government has failed to implement security and human rights reforms, free media, and the decentralization of power . The economy plummeted, forcing workers to be underpaid and living conditions to deteriorate . Laurent Kabila was killed in 2001 by one of his body guards in an attempted coup d'état.\n\nDuring that time period, The Democratic Republic of Congo received a score of 1.9 out of 10 in the Corruption Perception Index, which reveals high levels of corruption .\n\nHis son, Joseph Kabila was elected president after Laurent Kabila's death. Joseph Kabila is working with the World Bank to curtail corruption and improve economy. In addition, the Commission of Economic Crimes was implemented in 2001 by President Joseph Kabila. Nonetheless, there are still reports of high ranking officials exploiting resources for their personal benefit .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27742318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742318", "title": "Dhanki language", "text": "Dhanki language\n\nDhanki is a Bhil language of India, sometimes classified as a dialect of Khandeshi.\n"}
{"id": "11031096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11031096", "title": "Eastmont Town Center", "text": "Eastmont Town Center\n\nEastmont Town Center is a shopping mall and social services hub located on bounded by Foothill Boulevard, Bancroft and 73rd Avenues, and Church Street, in the Frick neighborhood of East Oakland. The mall opened in 1970 on the site of a 1920s-era Chevrolet automobile factory called Oakland Assembly. Architect William Pereira designed the building. It is physically almost next to, and by entry access a few blocks away from the similarly sized Evergreen Cemetery.\n\nOriginally known as Eastmont Mall, the mall was a popular and heavily used shopping destination during most of the 1970s and 1980s, but declined by the 1990s due to a huge drop in the average income level, and a concurrent increase in the crime rate in the mall and the surrounding neighborhoods. \n\nEastmont's primary anchor tenants were JCPenney, Mervyns, Woolworth's (including a lunch counter), Safeway, Pay 'n Save and Kinney Shoes, one of the nation's leading shoe retailers at the time. Hickory Farms had a location in Eastmont Mall, and there were also branches of Smiths and Roos/Atkins, both popular regional men's clothing stores. The mall also housed a Syufy movie theater, opened in 1971, with four screens. Food choices included Orange Julius, Karmelkorn and the H. Salt Esquire fast-food seafood chain.\n\nThe Safeway store was actually part of the first phase of the mall, a freestanding location fronting Bancroft Avenue, and opened in the spring of 1966. The other stores adjacent to it were opened by 1967. The JCPenney wing began construction in 1968.\n\nEastmont's JCPenney store was notable in that the signage for it, outdoors and at the inside entrances, was never converted to the \"JCPenney\" logo, rendered in the Helvetica font, introduced chain-wide in 1970 and installed in all subsequently built Bay Area locations (including Richmond's Hilltop Mall); the Eastmont location always retained the older \"Penneys\" logo as originally introduced in 1963, right up until the store shut down (all signage and advertising inside the store itself always conformed to then-current branding). This may have been intentionally done by JCPenney to protect the trademark on the older logo.\n\nEastmont Mall became the only remaining indoor mall in Oakland after the closure of the MacArthur-Broadway Center in North Oakland in the mid-1990s.\n\nJCPenney and Mervyns closed their Eastmont locations in the early 1990s. In the early 2000s, the mall was only 30 percent leased and had fallen into bankruptcy. Local real estate developers purchased the mall in 2000, and emphasized a focus on neighborhood and community services; many of the abandoned retail stores were converted into office space. The Mervyns location was converted into a substation for the Oakland Police Department and the JCPenney location was converted into a joint City of Oakland/Alameda County social services center. A handful of existing retail tenants stayed on, and a few new ones were attracted due to the success of the renovations, including Gazzali's Market (opened 2004), the only supermarket to serve the surrounding neighborhoods (this supermarket was a Safeway, as noted above, during the center's earliest years). In the spring of 2007, the mall was sold to a group of real estate investors based in Oregon.\n\nA $6 million renovation of the property was completed in July 2008. The interior was brightened, new lighting, skylights and seating areas were installed, escalators and elevators were given an upgrade and the parking areas received new landscaping.\n\nCurrently, the mall houses the supermarket, a Social Security office, a branch of the Oakland Public Library, a primary care medical clinic operated by the Alameda County Medical Center, General Assistance and WIC offices, and other small businesses and social service organizations.\n\nEastmont was sold for 54.5 million in 2015 to Vertical Ventures, a private equity investment firm based in Walnut Creek.\n\nThe Eastmont Transit Center bus station adjacent to the mall opened on March 4, 2001. The Eastmont Transit Center is the second largest bus station in East Oakland after Fruitvale station, serving 15 routes that carry over 25,000 passengers a day combined.\n\nThe following AC Transit routes serve the Eastmont Transit Center station:\n\n\nThe fare free Alameda County East Oakland Shuttle also connects the Social Security Administration Office at Eastmont Town Center with Oakland Coliseum station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6165821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6165821", "title": "Ed Austin", "text": "Ed Austin\n\nT. Edward \"Ed\" Austin Jr. (July 15, 1926 – April 23, 2011) was an American politician and attorney. He served as mayor of Jacksonville, Florida from 1991 to 1995. He also served as the first Public Defender for Florida's Fourth Judicial Circuit from 1963 to 1968, and served as State Attorney for the Fourth Judicial Circuit from 1969 to 1972 and again from 1974 to 1991. Austin was a Democrat for most of his career, but switched parties to become a Republican during his term as mayor, becoming the first Republican to serve in that position since the Reconstruction era.\n\nAustin was born in Shenandoah, Virginia. In 1944 he enrolled at Duke University, where he played college football as a tight end and ran track for the Duke Blue Devils. He earned a bachelor's degree and a master's degree while at Duke, and was subsequently employed as a teacher. He later joined the United States Army, where he served in the 101st Airborne Division as a paratrooper.\n\nAustin was hospitalized with a back injury; in the hospital he met his future wife, Patricia Lynch, an Army social worker. In 1957, he was honorably discharged as a First Lieutenant, and relocated to attend law school at the University of Florida.\n\nAustin received a juris doctor from the UF College of Law in 1958, and was admitted to the Florida Bar on November 6, 1959.\nHe worked in several legal positions, including a stint as Duval County's assistant solicitor. In 1963, he was appointed by Governor Farris Bryant as the first Public Defender for Florida's Fourth Judicial Circuit, which consists of Duval, Nassau, and Clay Counties. In 1969, he was elected State Attorney for the Fourth Judicial Circuit. Jacksonville Mayor Hans Tanzler appointed Austin to serve as the city's General Counsel in 1972, but he returned to the State Attorney position in 1974 and was re-elected four times.\n\nIn 1991 Austin resigned his position as State Attorney to run against incumbent mayor Tommy Hazouri, and won the election narrowly. His most lasting contribution as mayor is his River City Renaissance program, which funded urban renewal and revamped the city's historic downtown neighborhoods. Among the buildings constructed or renovated by the program are the Times-Union Center for the Performing Arts, the Sulzbacher Center, the stadium now known as EverBank Field, and the Jacksonville Zoo. Austin oversaw the city's purchase and refurbishing of the St. James Building, which would eventually become Jacksonville's new city hall. He was mayor at the time Jacksonville was awarded its National Football League franchise, the Jacksonville Jaguars. His support was instrumental in the founding of the Jacksonville Children's Commission and growth of the Jacksonville Symphony Orchestra.\n\nDuring his term as mayor he switched his party affiliation from Democrat to Republican; according to his chief of staff John Delaney, he told his staff before leaving on a trip to China that he had become so disenchanted with the Democrats that he did not want to die as one if his plane crashed. In 1994, he announced he would not seek a second term as mayor. In the subsequent election he backed Delaney, who defeated former mayor Jake Godbold to become the next mayor of Jacksonville.\n\nAustin was an imposing figure, a \"strapping John Wayne-kind of guy\", according to Delaney, who first worked for Austin as an intern in the early 1980s. His staff considered him a fair man with integrity and character who motivated his co-workers and mentored those he hired. Numerous individuals Austin hired and mentored went on to leadership positions in Jacksonville and the state of Florida, including Delaney, currently President of the University of North Florida; former Chief Justice Leander Shaw of the Florida Supreme Court, former general counsel Rick Mullaney, state Representative Mike Weinstein, Circuit Judge Brian Davis, Sulzbacher Center President Audrey Moran, and Chief Administrator Lex Hester.\n\nAustin and his wife had three children and nine grandchildren. His wife of 39 years, Patricia, died in a car accident near St. Augustine in 1996; he was a passenger and was also injured, but recovered. In 2003, he married Connie Green; they divorced in 2006. The Ed Austin Regional Park in Arlington was dedicated in 2005, and a $150,000 endowed scholarship was established at the University of North Florida during 2008 in his honor.\n\nAustin was recovering from heart surgery several weeks prior, but had not experienced complications. He died in his sleep on April 23, 2011. At his funeral on April 28, the casket was carried by an honor guard members from the Jacksonville Sheriff's Office and Jacksonville Fire and Rescue Department. Samuel Johnson Howard, Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Florida delivered a eulogy, former Mayors John Peyton, Jake Godbold, Tommy Hazouri and John Delaney attended the service.\n\n"}
{"id": "28998489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28998489", "title": "Environmental impact of cleaning agents", "text": "Environmental impact of cleaning agents\n\nEnvironmental impacts of cleaning agents are the consequences of chemical compounds in cleaning products. Cleaning agents can be bioactive with consequences ranging from mild to severe. Developmental and endocrine disruptors have been linked to cleaning agents. Green cleaning is an approach to redress or address the problems associated with traditional cleaning agents.\n\nAlkylphenol ethoxylates are widely used nonionic detergents for domestic and industrial use. They are susceptible to microbial or photochemical degradation into alkylphenols: lipophilic, hormone mimicking compounds. Endocrine disruption of alkylphenols was evidenced by research affirming cell proliferation in cells treated with alkylphenols, a response usually generated by oestradiol binding. Further investigation revealed that hormone mimicking alkylphenols affiliate with the oestradiol receptor and averts the proper binding and function of oestradiol. Male trout in alkylphenol contaminated rivers showed reduced testicular growth and synthesized 570,000 times more vitellogenin than did control male trout. The astonishing quantity of vitellogenin, a precursor of lipo- and phosphoproteins that make up egg-yolk protein, in the male trout population from River Lea of England exceeded that of females just before ovulation.\n\nSince the discovery of its adverse effects on an organism’s endocrine system, the United Kingdom phased out the use of APEs as cleaning agents since 2000. To date, there are no regulations regarding the use or removal of APEs.\n\nGreen cleaning uses are directly extracted from natural sources and biodegrade into innocuous compounds. Naturally occurring substances that may replace synthetic cleaning products include vinegar, lemon juice and baking soda. For example, lemon juice may be used as a degreaser.\n\nWith the aim of decreasing net efficiency, some brands of laundry detergent have been reformulated for use with cold water. By allowing the consumer to use cold water rather than hot, each load cuts back significantly on energy costs.\n\n2-Butoxyethanol is a common glycol ether used as a solvent in carpet, hard-surface, glass, and oven cleaners owing to its surfactant properties. It is a relatively cheap, volatile solvent of low toxicity. It has the further advantage of not bioaccumulating.\n\n"}
{"id": "17226693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17226693", "title": "Fersommling", "text": "Fersommling\n\nA Fersommling (plural, Fersommlinge) (also spelled Versammling or Fersammling) is a Pennsylvania Dutch social event in which food is served, speeches are made, and one or more \"g'spiel\" (plays or skits) are performed for entertainment. \"A high degree of theatricality and ceremony is involved, especially in the groundhog lodges: pledging loyalty to the lodge and the groundhog, listening to a weather report, singing patriotic songs in Deitsch, and ending every meeting by asking God to allow them to keep their way of life and their merriment.\" as described by William W. Donner. Among these traditions is the singing of the German folk song \"Schnitzelbank\" and the patriotic \"My Country, 'Tis of Thee\", in Pennsylvania German, as translated by John Birmelin. \" there is continual creativity, as current events are incorporated into the versammling performances, speeches, and skits.\" \n\nFersommlinge are typically attended by the Fancy Dutch, as opposed to the \"Plain sects\" of the Amish, Brethren and Mennonites. The term literally means \"a congregation,\" not in the sense of a group of church-goers, but as a \"social gathering of people.\" Fersommlinge are not religious functions, though many churches and church groups hosted the events and used them to raise money. The Pennsylvania German dialect is the only language spoken at the event, and those who speak English pay a penalty, usually in the form of a nickel, dime or quarter, per word spoken, put into a bowl in the center of the table. \n\nThe first Fersommling was held by Dr. John I. Woodruff of Susquehanna University in 1933. Shortly afterward, on March 13, 1933, a second was held in Allentown, Pennsylvania at the home of William S. Troxell, who wrote a daily column on Pennsylvania German culture for the Allentown \"Morning Call\" under the pseudonym \"Pumpernickle Bill.\" The purpose of the gathering was to plan the formation of the first Grundsow (Groundhog) Lodge. On the next Groundhog Day, February 2, 1934, the first Fersommling of Grundsow Lodge Nummer Ains an Da Lechaw (Number One on the Lehigh) took place in Northampton, Pennsylvania.\n\nFersommlinge continue to be held throughout eastern Pennsylvania as a means of preserving the Pennsylvania German dialect and culture. For example, the Berks County Fersommling, which started in 1937, annually attracts more than 700 participants, most of whom are of Pennsylvania German ancestry.\n\nSince 1997, some of the texts presented at Fersommlinge are also published in the Pennsylvania German newspaper Hiwwe wie Driwwe. Current Fersommling and Grundsau lodge information is kept up to date at groundhoglodge.org and the Pennsylvania German Society\n\n\"The versammlinge which started as a way to celebrate Pennsylvania German heritage and ethnicity became over time part of that heritage and ethnicity\"\n"}
{"id": "10361070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10361070", "title": "Filipino immigration to Mexico", "text": "Filipino immigration to Mexico\n\nFilipino Mexicans are Mexican citizens who are descendants of Filipino ancestry. The actual population of Filipino descendants is not known, but there are approximately 1,200 Filipino nationals residing in Mexico.\n\nMost of their Filipino ancestors arrived in Mexico during the Spanish colonial period. For two and a half centuries, between 1565 and 1815, many Filipinos and Mexicans sailed to and from Mexico and the Philippines as sailors, crews, slaves, prisoners, adventurers and soldiers in the Manila-Acapulco Galleon assisting Spain in its trade between Asia and the Americas. Some of these sailors never returned to the Philippines. Most settled in and integrated into the Mexican society. In the late 19th and early 20th century some Filipinos came to Mexico as refugees from Spain during Francisco Franco’s dictatorship. These Filipinos were descendants of Filipino and Filipino mestizo settlers who entered Spain after the Spanish–American War.\n\nSmaller waves of Filipino migration to Mexico took place in the late 19th and 20th centuries after the Philippines was annexed by the U.S. during the Spanish–American War of 1898–1900. A number of Filipino farm laborers and fishermen arrived to work in the Mexican west coast. These areas included the Baja California, Sonora and Sinaloa, while some had awaited to enter the United States to reunite with family members in Filipino American communities in California, and elsewhere. Mexican immigration law continues to grant special status for Filipinos.\n\nTheir descendants are found in communities particularly in the state of Guerrero, and Colima. Most of these individuals are mixed blood peoples, and trace half or a quarter of their ancestry and origin back to the Philippines during the Manila-Acapulco Galleon period.\n\nToday, newly arrived Filipinos are overseas or contract workers who came to Mexico to obtain employment. Most of these individuals speak at least one of the Philippine languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49668874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49668874", "title": "First National Conference of the Colored Women of America", "text": "First National Conference of the Colored Women of America\n\nThe First National Conference of the Colored Women of America was a three-day conference in Boston organized by Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin, a civil rights leader and suffragist. In August 1895, representatives from 42 African-American women's clubs from 14 states convened at Berkeley Hall for the purpose of creating a national organization. It was the first event of its kind in the United States.\n\nSpeakers included Margaret Murray Washington (the wife of Booker T. Washington), author and former slave Victoria Earle Matthews, anti-lynching activist Ida B. Wells, scholar Anna J. Cooper, civil rights leader T. Thomas Fortune, and social reformers Henry B. Blackwell and William Lloyd Garrison. The National Federation of Afro-American Women, which became the National Association of Colored Women the following year, was organized during the conference.\n\nIn 1892, Boston activist Josephine St. Pierre Ruffin founded the Woman's Era Club, an advocacy group for black women, with the help of her daughter, Florida Ruffin Ridley, and educator Maria Louise Baldwin. It was the first black women's club in Boston, and one of the first in the country. Its members, prominent black women from the Boston area, devoted their efforts to education, women's suffrage, and race-related issues such as anti-lynching reform. Its slogan was \"Help to make the world better\". \"The Woman's Era\", an illustrated monthly publication, was the club's newspaper.\n\nIn the early 1890s, when the \"Woman's Era\" polled readers to see if there was a need for a national organization of black clubwomen, the response was overwhelmingly positive. In 1895, an obscure Missouri journalist named John Jacks sent a letter to the secretary of the British Anti-Slavery Society, Florence Belgarnie. In the letter, Jacks criticized the anti-lynching work of Ida B. Wells, and wrote that black women had \"no sense of virtue\" and were \"altogether without character\". Outraged, Belgarnie sent the letter to Ruffin who distributed the letter to various women's clubs in her call to organize. Soon after, Ruffin organized a national conference in Boston, and asked clubs to send delegates. The first day was to be devoted to the business of organizing, and the second and third to \"vital questions concerning our moral, mental, physical and financial growth and well-being.\" In the call, Ruffin explained the choice of venue:\n\nBoston has been selected as a meeting place because it has seemed to be the general opinion that here, and here only, can be found the atmosphere which would best interpret and represent us, our position, our needs, and our aims.\n\nOn July 29, 1895, representatives of 42 black women's clubs from 14 states—including the Colored Women's League of Washington, the Women's Loyal Union of New York, and the Ida B. Wells Club of Chicago—gathered in Berkeley Hall for the First National Conference of the Colored Women of America, with Josephine Ruffin presiding. They convened at the hall for three days, with an extra session on August 1 at the Charles Street Church. According to the \"New York Times\", it was \"the first movement of the kind ever attempted\".\n\nIn her opening address, Ruffin explained:\n\nOur woman's movement is woman's movement in that it is led and directed by women for the good of women and men, for the benefit of all humanity, which is more than any one branch or section of it. We want, we ask the active interest of our men, and, too, we are not drawing the color line; we are women, American women, as intensely interested in all that pertains to us as such as all other American women.\n\nSeveral notable speakers addressed the group. Margaret Murray Washington, the wife of Booker T. Washington, gave an influential speech titled \"Individual Work for Moral Elevation\". African-American women, she said, were divided into two classes: those who \"had the opportunity to improve and develop mentally, physically, morally, spiritually and financially\" and those who had been deprived of that opportunity by slavery. She urged members of the former class to do all they could to uplift and inspire the latter, reasoning that individual success was not enough; that only by \"lifting as we climb\" was it possible for the race to make progress.\n\nElla L. Smith, the first African-American woman to receive an M.A. degree from Wellesley College, spoke about the need for higher education. Noted scholar Anna J. Cooper spoke about the need to organize. In \"The Value of Race Literature\", author and former slave Victoria Earle Matthews stressed the importance of collecting literature by and about African Americans. Agnes Jones Adams gave a speech titled \"Social Purity\" in which she asserted that being white was not a \"criterion for being American\". Civil rights leader T. Thomas Fortune and social reformers Henry B. Blackwell and William Lloyd Garrison spoke about political equality. Helen Appo Cook, president of the National League of Colored Women, read a paper on \"The Ideal National Union\". Alexander Crummell, Anna Sprague (the daughter of Frederick Douglass), and anti-lynching activist Ida B. Wells also spoke. Other club women gave speeches on justice, temperance, and the need for industrial training.\n\nAs the convention's chaplain, Eliza Ann Gardner of Boston gave the opening benediction. Although it was not unheard of for Christian women to preach in those days, it was unusual for a woman to be given the title of chaplain. Alice T. Miller of Boston read a poem, and singers Moses Hamilton Hodges and Arianna Sparrow gave solo performances.\n\nThe National Federation of Afro-American Women (NFAAW) was organized during the conference, and its mission defined as:\n\n(1) the concentration of the dormant energies of the women of the Afro-American race into one broad band of sisterhood: for the purpose of establishing needed reforms, and the practical encouragement of all efforts being put forth by various agencies, religious, educational, ethical and otherwise, for the upbuilding, ennobling and advancement of the race; (2) to awaken the women of the race to the great need of systematic effort in home-making and the divinely imposed duties of motherhood.\n\nDelegates from the conference were elected officers for the organization, and were Margaret Murray Washington (President), Florida Ruffin Ridley (Cor. Sec.), L. C. Carter (Rec. Sec.), Libby B. Anthony (Treasurer), Mary Dickerson, Helen Crum, and Ella Mahammitt (Vice Presidents). Ruffin was nominated for treasurer but refused the position. \"The Woman's Era\" was designated as the organization's news outlet. The NFAAW held another conference in 1896, when it merged with other groups to form the National Association of Colored Women.\n\n"}
{"id": "668903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=668903", "title": "Francis Place", "text": "Francis Place\n\nFrancis Place (3 November 1771 in London – 1 January 1854 in London) was an English social reformer.\n\nHe was the illegitimate son of Simon Place and Mary Gray, and had a rough upbringing; his father ran a London sponging-house in Vinegar Yard, near Drury Lane, and Place was born there. He was schooled to 1785 before being apprenticed to a leather-breeches maker in Temple Bar.\n\nAt eighteen Place was an independent journeyman, and in 1790 was married to Elizabeth Chad and they moved to a house near the Strand. In 1793 he became involved in and eventually the leader of a strike of leather-breeches makers, and was refused work for several years by London's master tailors; he exploited this time by reading avidly and widely. In 1794, Place joined the London Corresponding Society, a reform club, and for three years was prominent in its work, before resigning his post as chairman of the general committee in 1797 in protest at the violent tactics and rhetoric of some group members. In 1799 he became the partner in a tailor's shop, and a year later set up his own highly successful business at 16 Charing Cross.\n\nWithdrawing from politics whilst he established his business, he devoted three hours an evening after work to studying, eventually establishing such a large personal library in the back of his shop that it soon became a meeting place for radicals. In 1807 he supported Sir Francis Burdett, 5th Baronet, a Parliamentary candidate for Westminster, which allowed him to come into contact with such theorists as William Godwin, James Mill, Robert Owen, Jeremy Bentham, Joseph Hume and John Stuart Mill. When Place retired in 1817 (with a steady stream of income from his shop, now run by his children), he lived for several months with Bentham and the Mills at Forde Abbey.\n\nIt was around this time that he became involved in the movement for organised, public education, believing it to be a means of eradicating the ills of the working class. In the early 1820s he also became a Malthusian, believing that as the population increased it would outstrip the food supply. He successfully associated Malthus with the idea of birth control (which Malthus himself had opposed despite his fears of overpopulation). Despite himself having fathered fifteen children, he advocated the use of contraception, although was not specific about in what forms. It was on this topic that he wrote his only published book, the influential and controversial \"Illustrations and Proofs of the Principles of Population,\" in 1822. The earliest national birth control organization was founded in England in 1877 as a result of his thinking and activities. \n\nPlace also lobbied successfully for the 1824 repeal of the Combination Act, which helped early Trade Unionism, though new restrictions were soon introduced. Oddly, Place himself regarded Trade Unionism as a delusion that workers would soon forget about if they were allowed to try it.\n\nIn 1827 he entered a long period of depression after the death of his wife from cancer. In February 1830 he married Louisa Chatterley, a London actress. Also in this year, Place helped support Rowland Detrosier, a working class radical activist who also sought to distance himself from socialism. Through Place, Detrosier would be introduced to figures such as Bentham and J.S. Mill, who in turn introduced him to Thomas Carlyle. Detrosier's activities and writings would be influential amongst Manchester Radicals and the later Chartists. He was also active in the agitation that led to the Reform Act of 1832, holding up the recent revolution in Paris as an example of what could happen if reform wasn't allowed by legal means.\n\nHaving lost much of his money in 1833 in bad investments, Place had to move from Charing Cross to Brompton Square, and lost his regular contact with the Reformist middle-class. However, he remained politically active, working against the stamp tax and involving himself in the London Working Men's Association, within which in 1838 he and William Lovett drafted the document that would become the People's Charter. It then became evident that many Chartists were willing to use violent means, and when Feargus O'Connor replaced Lovett as the effective leader of the movement, Place ceased to be involved in Chartist activities. On rescinding his involvement with the Chartists, he became involved in the movement to repeal the Corn Laws.\n\nFor the next two decades he wrote his autobiography and organised the immense collection he had made: notes, pamphlets, newspapers and letters. In 1851 he separated from his wife and on 1 January 1854 died in the home of his two unmarried daughters in Hammersmith.\n\nPlace is listed on the Reformers Memorial in Kensal Green Cemetery in London.\n\nHis pamphlets, letters, magazine and newspaper articles throw light on the social and economic history of the nineteenth century. His hoarding of documents create an important archive. The British Library currently holds these documents in fifty-four reels of micro-film as the Francis Place Collection.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20631694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20631694", "title": "Gambia Red Cross Society", "text": "Gambia Red Cross Society\n\nGambia Red Cross Society also known as GRCS was founded in 1966.It has its headquarters in Banjul, The Gambia.\n\n"}
{"id": "27851792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27851792", "title": "Gokana kingdom", "text": "Gokana kingdom\n\nGokana kingdom is one of the six kingdoms of the Ogoni people in Ogoni (also Ogoniland) in the Niger Delta region of Nigeria. \"Gokana kingdom\" has geographic, historic and ethno-linguistic elements with some 130,000 Gokana language speakers located in the Gokana Local Government Area in Rivers State. Gokana contains a number of villages, including Lewe, B. Dere, K. Dere, Kpor, Mogho, Bomu, Bodo, Gio-koo, Nwe-ol, Alli D. Bera, Biara, Deeyor, Boghor, Barako and Yeghe.\n\n"}
{"id": "2635162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2635162", "title": "Government cheese", "text": "Government cheese\n\nGovernment cheese is processed cheese provided to welfare beneficiaries, Food Stamp recipients and the elderly receiving Social Security in the United States, and is still provided to food charities. The processed cheese was used in military kitchens since World War II and in schools since as early as the 1950s.\n\nGovernment cheese is a commodity cheese that was controlled by the U.S. federal government from the time World War II ended and into the early 1980s. Government cheese was created to maintain the price of dairy when dairy industry subsidies artificially increased the supply of milk and created a surplus of milk that was then converted into cheese, butter, or powdered milk. The cheese, along with the butter and dehydrated powder, was stored in over 150 warehouses across 35 states.\n\nThe cheese was bought and stored by the government's Commodity Credit Corporation. Direct distribution of dairy products began in 1982 under the Temporary Emergency Food Assistance Program of the Food and Nutrition Service. According to the government, it \"slices and melts well.\" The cheese was provided monthly, in unsliced block form, with generic product labeling and packaging.\n\nThe cheese was often from food surpluses stockpiled by the government as part of milk price supports. Butter was also stockpiled and then provided under the same program. Some government cheese was made of kosher products. This cheese product is also distributed to victims of a natural disaster following a state of emergency declaration.\n\nThis cheese became an important topic for the press in the 1980s when the press learned about the milk products that were being stored across the nation while millions of Americans felt food insecurity. During the same time in the 1980s, President Ronald Reagan's administration cut the budget on the national food stamp program in the United States.\n\nOn December 22, 1981 President Ronald Reagan signed and authorized into law that of cheese that the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) had been stockpiled should be released, saying that it ...\n\n\"... will be distributed free to the needy by nonprofit organizations.\" Ronald Reagan, in his official statement about the distribution of the Cheese Inventory of the Commodity Credit Corporation, said, \"The 1981 farm bill I signed today will slow the rise in price support levels, but even under this bill, surpluses will continue to pile up. A total of more than 560 million pounds of cheese has already been consigned to warehouses, so more distributions may be necessary as we continue our drive to root out waste in government and make the best possible use of our nation's resources.\"\n\nAs the bill stated, any state that would ask for the cheese would get of it, in blocks. The bill was approved in the House by a margin of two votes; in the Senate it had a much larger approval rate. The logic behind the distribution was to effectively remove waste and to use all possible resources available in the United States. One representative from the USDA remarked that, \"Probably the cheapest and most practical thing would be to dump it in the ocean.\"\n\nThe distribution of government cheese was claimed to not have an adverse effect on commercially available cheeses, as the government was required to purchase dairy products like cheese to keep the commercial companies afloat. The government could then sell or give the cheese away to foreign countries. At the time of Ronald Reagan's signing of the 1981 farm bill, the cheese stockpile equaled to more than 2 pounds (1 kg) of cheese for each person living in the United States. Government cheese was frequently moldy. Those who received the cheese did not lose any food stamps and were not required to trade their food stamps in for the cheese. California was the first state to take the cheese; the first delivery that they received was for of cheese. Government cheese was provided to welfare, food stamp, and Social Security recipients at no cost to them. Government cheese was colored orange. It was distributed to low-income families through the Temporary Emergency Food Assistance Program. Government cheese was nominally removed in the 1990s when the dairy market stabilized.\n\nLike traditional processed American cheese, it consists of a variety of cheese types and other ingredients such as emulsifiers blended together, and may be made of any of Cheddar cheese, Colby cheese, cheese curd, or granular cheese.\n\nGovernment cheese has become a symbol for American innovation and industrialization, although the nutritional value of the cheese has been in question. It has been argued that people in poverty, such as those entitled to government cheese, are more likely to become obese. Between 1988-1994, those individuals below the poverty line had an obesity rate of 29.2 percent. The Food Security Act of 1985 (the 1985 farm bill) attempted to reduce milk production, but has been labeled as a \"hodgepodge of misdirected political compromise.\"\n\nThe nutrition facts on government cheese suggests a serving size of , or two slices, of cheese per serving. It also notes that the nutritional information represents the average nutritional value of \"Processed American cheese\" which was offered by the commodity food program. Per serving, the total fat content is 9 grams, of which 6 grams are saturated fat. Per serving, there are 30 mg of cholesterol and 380 mg of sodium.\n\nOn August 23, 2016, the U.S Department of Agriculture released that they planned to purchase approximately of cheese, worth $20 million, to give aid to food banks and food pantries from across the United States, to reduce a $1.2 billion cheese surplus that has been at its highest level in thirty years, and to stabilize farm prices. This purchase also added revenues for the dairy producers. Regarding the purchase, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said, \"This commodity purchase is part of a robust, comprehensive safety net that will help reduce a cheese surplus that is at a 30-year high while, at the same time, moving a high-protein food to the tables of those most in need. USDA will continue to look for ways within its authorities to tackle food insecurity and provide for added stability in the marketplace.\"\n\nCurrently, as part of the USDA Food Nutrition Service Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) eligible Seniors over Age 60 are provided one 32 ounce block of processed cheese food each month supplied by participating dairies.\n\n"}
{"id": "1728672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1728672", "title": "Human impact on the environment", "text": "Human impact on the environment\n\nHuman impact on the environment or anthropogenic impact on the environment includes changes to biophysical environments and ecosystems, biodiversity, and natural resources caused directly or indirectly by humans, including global warming, environmental degradation (such as ocean acidification), mass extinction and biodiversity loss, ecological crisis, and ecological collapse. Modifying the environment to fit the needs of society is causing severe effects, which become worse as the problem of human overpopulation continues. Some human activities that cause damage (either directly or indirectly) to the environment on a global scale include human reproduction, overconsumption, overexploitation, pollution, and deforestation, to name but a few. Some of the problems, including global warming and biodiversity loss pose an existential risk to the human race, and overpopulation causes those problems.\n\nThe term \"anthropogenic\" designates an effect or object resulting from human activity. The term was first used in the technical sense by Russian geologist Alexey Pavlov, and it was first used in English by British ecologist Arthur Tansley in reference to human influences on climax plant communities. The atmospheric scientist Paul Crutzen introduced the term \"Anthropocene\" in the mid-1970s. The term is sometimes used in the context of pollution emissions that are produced from human activity but also applies broadly to all major human impacts on the environment.\n\nDavid Attenborough described the level of human population on the planet as a multiplier of all other environmental problems. In 2013, he described humanity as \"a plague on the Earth\" that needs to be controlled by limiting population growth.\n\nSome deep ecologists, such as the radical thinker and polemicist Pentti Linkola, see human overpopulation as a threat to the entire biosphere. In 2017, over 15,000 scientists around the world issued a second warning to humanity which asserted that rapid human population growth is the \"primary driver behind many ecological and even societal threats.\"\n\nOverconsumption is a situation where resource use has outpaced the sustainable capacity of the ecosystem. It can be measured by the ecological footprint, a resource accounting approach which compares human demand on ecosystems with the amount of planet matter ecosystems can renew. Estimates indicate that humanity's current demand is 70% higher than the regeneration rate of all of the planet's ecosystems combined. A prolonged pattern of overconsumption leads to environmental degradation and the eventual loss of resource bases.\n\nHumanity's overall impact on the planet is affected by many factors, not just the raw number of people. Their lifestyle (including overall affluence and resource utilization) and the pollution they generate (including carbon footprint) are equally important. In 2008, \"The New York Times\" stated that the inhabitants of the developed nations of the world consume resources like oil and metals at a rate almost 32 times greater than those of the developing world, who make up the majority of the human population.\n\nThe effects of overpopulation are compounded by overconsumption. According to Paul R. Ehrlich:\n\nRich western countries are now siphoning up the planet’s resources and destroying its ecosystems at an unprecedented rate. We want to build highways across the Serengeti to get more rare earth minerals for our cellphones. We grab all the fish from the sea, wreck the coral reefs and put carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. We have triggered a major extinction event [...] A world population of around a billion would have an overall pro-life effect. This could be supported for many millennia and sustain many more human lives in the long term compared with our current uncontrolled growth and prospect of sudden collapse [...] If everyone consumed resources at the US level – which is what the world aspires to – you will need another four or five Earths. We are wrecking our planet’s life support systems.\n\nHumanity has caused the loss of 83% of all wild mammals and half of plants The world’s chickens are triple the weight of all the wild birds, while domesticated cattle and pigs outweigh all wild mammals by 14 to 1.\n\nThe applications of technology often result in unavoidable and unexpected environmental impacts, which according to the I = PAT equation is measured as resource use or pollution generated per unit GDP. Environmental impacts caused by the application of technology are often perceived as unavoidable for several reasons. First, given that the purpose of many technologies is to exploit, control, or otherwise “improve” upon nature for the perceived benefit of humanity while at the same time the myriad of processes in nature have been optimized and are continually adjusted by evolution, any disturbance of these natural processes by technology is likely to result in negative environmental consequences. Second, the conservation of mass principle and the first law of thermodynamics (i.e., conservation of energy) dictate that whenever material resources or energy are moved around or manipulated by technology, environmental consequences are inescapable. Third, according to the second law of thermodynamics, order can be increased within a system (such as the human economy) only by increasing disorder or entropy outside the system (i.e., the environment). Thus, technologies can create “order” in the human economy (i.e., order as manifested in buildings, factories, transportation networks, communication systems, etc.) only at the expense of increasing “disorder” in the environment. According to a number of studies, increased entropy is likely to be correlated to negative environmental impacts.\n\nThe environmental impact of agriculture varies based on the wide variety of agricultural practices employed around the world. Ultimately, the environmental impact depends on the production practices of the system used by farmers. The connection between emissions into the environment and the farming system is indirect, as it also depends on other climate variables such as rainfall and temperature.\n\nThere are two types of indicators of environmental impact: \"means-based\", which is based on the farmer's production methods, and \"effect-based\", which is the impact that farming methods have on the farming system or on emissions to the environment. An example of a means-based indicator would be the quality of groundwater that is affected by the amount of nitrogen applied to the soil. An indicator reflecting the loss of nitrate to groundwater would be effect-based.\n\nThe environmental impact of agriculture involves a variety of factors from the soil, to water, the air, animal and soil diversity, plants, and the food itself. Some of the environmental issues that are related to agriculture are climate change, deforestation, genetic engineering, irrigation problems, pollutants, soil degradation, and waste.\n\nThe environmental impact of fishing can be divided into issues that involve the availability of fish to be caught, such as overfishing, sustainable fisheries, and fisheries management; and issues that involve the impact of fishing on other elements of the environment, such as by-catch and destruction of habitat such as coral reefs.\n\nThese conservation issues are part of marine conservation, and are addressed in fisheries science programs. There is a growing gap between how many fish are available to be caught and humanity’s desire to catch them, a problem that gets worse as the world population grows.\n\nSimilar to other environmental issues, there can be conflict between the fishermen who depend on fishing for their livelihoods and fishery scientists who realize that if future fish populations are to be sustainable then some fisheries must reduce or even close.\n\nThe journal \"Science\" published a four-year study in November 2006, which predicted that, at prevailing trends, the world would run out of wild-caught seafood in 2048. The scientists stated that the decline was a result of overfishing, pollution and other environmental factors that were reducing the population of fisheries at the same time as their ecosystems were being degraded. Yet again the analysis has met criticism as being fundamentally flawed, and many fishery management officials, industry representatives and scientists challenge the findings, although the debate continues. Many countries, such as Tonga, the United States, Australia and New Zealand, and international management bodies have taken steps to appropriately manage marine resources.\n\nThe environmental impact of irrigation includes the changes in quantity and quality of soil and water as a result of irrigation and the ensuing effects on natural and social conditions at the tail-end and downstream of the irrigation scheme.\n\nThe impacts stem from the changed hydrological conditions owing to the installation and operation of the scheme.\n\nAn irrigation scheme often draws water from the river and distributes it over the irrigated area. As a hydrological result it is found that:\nThese may be called direct effects.\n\nEffects on soil and water quality are indirect and complex, and subsequent impacts on natural, ecological and socio-economic conditions are intricate. In some, but not all instances, water logging and soil salinization can result. However, irrigation can also be used, together with soil drainage, to overcome soil salinization by leaching excess salts from the vicinity of the root zone.\n\nIrrigation can also be done extracting groundwater by (tube)wells. As a hydrological result it is found that the level of the water descends. The effects may be water mining, land/soil subsidence, and, along the coast, saltwater intrusion.\n\nIrrigation projects can have large benefits, but the negative side effects are often overlooked.\nAgricultural irrigation technologies such as high powered water pumps, dams, and pipelines are responsible for the large-scale depletion of fresh water resources such as aquifers, lakes, and rivers. As a result of this massive diversion of freshwater, lakes, rivers, and creeks are running dry, severely altering or stressing surrounding ecosystems, and contributing to the extinction of many aquatic species.\n\nLal and Stewart estimated global loss of agricultural land by degradation and abandonment at 12 million hectares per year. In contrast, according to Scherr, GLASOD (Global Assessment of Human-Induced Soil Degradation, under the UN Environment Programme) estimated that 6 million hectares of agricultural land per year had been lost to soil degradation since the mid-1940s, and she noted that this magnitude is similar to earlier estimates by Dudal and by Rozanov et al. Such losses are attributable not only to soil erosion, but also to salinization, loss of nutrients and organic matter, acidification, compaction, water logging and subsidence. Human-induced land degradation tends to be particularly serious in dry regions. Focusing on soil properties, Oldeman estimated that about 19 million square kilometers of global land area had been degraded; Dregne and Chou, who included degradation of vegetation cover as well as soil, estimated about 36 million square kilometers degraded in the world’s dry regions. Despite estimated losses of agricultural land, the amount of arable land used in crop production globally increased by about 9% from 1961 to 2012, and is estimated to have been 1.396 billion hectares in 2012.\n\nGlobal average soil erosion rates are thought to be high, and erosion rates on conventional cropland generally exceed estimates of soil production rates, usually by more than an order of magnitude. In the US, sampling for erosion estimates by the US NRCS (Natural Resources Conservation Service) is statistically based, and estimation uses the Universal Soil Loss Equation and Wind Erosion Equation. For 2010, annual average soil loss by sheet, rill and wind erosion on non-federal US land was estimated to be 10.7 t/ha on cropland and 1.9 t/ha on pasture land; the average soil erosion rate on US cropland had been reduced by about 34% since 1982. No-till and low-till practices have become increasingly common on North American cropland used for production of grains such as wheat and barley. On uncultivated cropland, the recent average total soil loss has been 2.2 t/ha per year. In comparison with agriculture using conventional cultivation, it has been suggested that, because no-till agriculture produces erosion rates much closer to soil production rates, it could provide a foundation for sustainable agriculture.\n\nEnvironmental impacts associated with meat production include use of fossil energy, water and land resources, greenhouse gas emissions, and in some instances, rainforest clearing, water pollution and species endangerment, among other adverse effects. Steinfeld et al. of the FAO estimated that 18% of global anthropogenic GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions (estimated as 100-year carbon dioxide equivalents) are associated in some way with livestock production. FAO data indicate that meat accounted for 26% of global livestock product tonnage in 2011. \n\nGlobally, enteric fermentation (mostly in ruminant livestock) accounts for about 27% of anthropogenic methane emissions, Despite methane’s 100-year global warming potential, recently estimated at 28 without and 34 with climate carbon feedbacks, methane emission is currently contributing relatively little to global warming. Although reduction of methane emissions would have a rapid effect on warming, the expected effect would be small. Other anthropogenic GHG emissions associated with livestock production include carbon dioxide from fossil fuel consumption (mostly for production, harvesting and transport of feed), and nitrous oxide emissions associated with use of nitrogenous fertilizers, growing of nitrogen-fixing legume vegetation and manure management. Management practices that can mitigate GHG emissions from production of livestock and feed have been identified.\n\nConsiderable water use is associated with meat production, mostly because of water used in production of vegetation that provides feed. There are several published estimates of water use associated with livestock and meat production, but the amount of water use assignable to such production is seldom estimated. For example, “green water” use is evapotranspirational use of soil water that has been provided directly by precipitation; and “green water” has been estimated to account for 94% of global beef cattle production’s “water footprint”, and on rangeland, as much as 99.5% of the water use associated with beef production is “green water”.\n\nImpairment of water quality by manure and other substances in runoff and infiltrating water is a concern, especially where intensive livestock production is carried out. In the US, in a comparison of 32 industries, the livestock industry was found to have a relatively good record of compliance with environmental regulations pursuant to the Clean Water Act and Clean Air Act, but pollution issues from large livestock operations can sometimes be serious where violations occur. Various measures have been suggested by the US Environmental Protection Agency, among others, which can help reduce livestock damage to streamwater quality and riparian environments.\n\nChanges in livestock production practices influence the environmental impact of meat production, as illustrated by some beef data. In the US beef production system, practices prevailing in 2007 are estimated to have involved 8.6% less fossil fuel use, 16% less greenhouse gas emissions (estimated as 100-year carbon dioxide equivalents), 12% less withdrawn water use and 33% less land use, per unit mass of beef produced, than in 1977. From 1980 to 2012 in the US, while population increased by 38%, the small ruminant inventory decreased by 42%, the cattle-and-calves inventory decreased by 17%, and methane emissions from livestock decreased by 18%; yet despite the reduction in cattle numbers, US beef production increased over that period.\n\nSome impacts of meat-producing livestock may be considered environmentally beneficial. These include waste reduction by conversion of human-inedible crop residues to food, use of livestock as an alternative to herbicides for control of invasive and noxious weeds and other vegetation management, use of animal manure as fertilizer as a substitute for those synthetic fertilizers that require considerable fossil fuel use for manufacture, grazing use for wildlife habitat enhancement, and carbon sequestration in response to grazing practices, among others. Conversely, according to some studies appearing in peer-reviewed journals, the growing demand for meat is contributing to significant biodiversity loss as it is a significant driver of deforestation and habitat destruction.\n\nIntroductions of species, particularly plants into new areas, by whatever means and for whatever reasons have brought about major and permanent changes to the environment over large areas. Examples include the introduction of Caulerpa taxifolia into the Mediterranean, the introduction of oat species into the California grasslands, and the introduction of privet, kudzu, and purple loosestrife to North America. Rats, cats, and goats have radically altered biodiversity in many islands. Additionally, introductions have resulted in genetic changes to native fauna where interbreeding has taken place, as with buffalo with domestic cattle, and wolves with domestic dogs.\n\nThe environmental impact of energy harvesting and consumption is diverse. In recent years there has been a trend towards the increased commercialization of various renewable energy sources.\n\nIn the real world, consumption of fossil fuel resources leads to global warming and climate change. However, little change is being made in many parts of the world. If the peak oil theory proves true, more explorations of viable alternative energy sources, could be more friendly to the environment.\n\nRapidly advancing technologies can achieve a transition of energy generation, water and waste management, and food production towards better environmental and energy usage practices using methods of systems ecology and industrial ecology.\n\nThe environmental impact of biodiesel includes energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and some other kinds of pollution. A joint life cycle analysis by the US Department of Agriculture and the US Department of Energy found that substituting 100% biodiesel for petroleum diesel in buses reduced life cycle consumption of petroleum by 95%. Biodiesel reduced net emissions of carbon dioxide by 78.45%, compared with petroleum diesel. In urban buses, biodiesel reduced particulate emissions 32 percent, carbon monoxide emissions 35 percent, and emissions of sulfur oxides 8%, relative to life cycle emissions associated with use of petroleum diesel. Life cycle emissions of hydrocarbons were 35% higher and emission of various nitrogen oxides (NOx) were 13.5% higher with biodiesel. Life cycle analyses by the Argonne National Laboratory have indicated reduced fossil energy use and reduced greenhouse gas emissions with biodiesel, compared with petroleum diesel use. Biodiesel derived from various vegetable oils (e.g. canola or soybean oil), is readily biodegradable in the environment compared with petroleum diesel.\n\nThe environmental impact of coal mining and -burning is diverse. Legislation passed by the US Congress in 1990 required the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to issue a plan to alleviate toxic air pollution from coal-fired power plants. After delay and litigation, the EPA now has a court-imposed deadline of March 16, 2011, to issue its report.\n\nThe environmental impact of electricity generation is significant because modern society uses large amounts of electrical power. This power is normally generated at power plants that convert some other kind of energy into electricity. Each such system has advantages and disadvantages, but many of them pose environmental concerns.\n\nThe environmental impact of nuclear power results from the nuclear fuel cycle processes including mining, processing, transporting and storing fuel and radioactive fuel waste. Released radioisotopes pose a health danger to human populations, animals and plants as radioactive particles enter organisms through various transmission routes.\n\nRadiation is a carcinogen and causes numerous effects on living organisms and systems. The environmental impacts of nuclear power plant disasters such as the Chernobyl disaster, the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster and the Three Mile Island accident, among others, persist indefinitely, though several other factors contributed to these events including improper management of fail safe systems and natural disasters putting uncommon stress on the generators. The radioactive decay rate of particles varies greatly, dependent upon the nuclear properties of a particular isotope. Radioactive Plutonium-244 has a half-life of 80.8 million years, which indicates the time duration required for half of a given sample to decay, though very little plutonium-244 is produced in the nuclear fuel cycle and lower half-life materials have lower activity thus giving off less dangerous radiation.\n\nThe environmental impact of the oil shale industry includes the consideration of issues such as land use, waste management, and water and air pollution caused by the extraction and processing of oil shale. Surface mining of oil shale deposits causes the usual environmental impacts of open-pit mining. In addition, the combustion and thermal processing generate waste material, which must be disposed of, and harmful atmospheric emissions, including carbon dioxide, a major greenhouse gas. Experimental in-situ conversion processes and carbon capture and storage technologies may reduce some of these concerns in future, but may raise others, such as the pollution of groundwater.\n\nThe environmental impact of petroleum is often negative because it is toxic to almost all forms of life. Petroleum, a common word for oil or natural gas, is closely linked to virtually all aspects of present society, especially for transportation and heating for both homes and for commercial activities.\n\nThe environmental impact of reservoirs is coming under ever increasing scrutiny as the world demand for water and energy increases and the number and size of reservoirs increases.\n\nDams and the reservoirs can be used to supply drinking water, generate hydroelectric power, increasing the water supply for irrigation, provide recreational opportunities and flood control. However, adverse environmental and sociological impacts have also been identified during and after many reservoir constructions. Although the impact varies greatly between different dams and reservoirs, common criticisms include preventing sea-run fish from reaching their historical mating grounds, less access to water downstream, and a smaller catch for fishing communities in the area. Advances in technology have provided solutions to many negative impacts of dams but these advances are often not viewed as worth investing in if not required by law or under the threat of fines. Whether reservoir projects are ultimately beneficial or detrimental—to both the environment and surrounding human populations— has been debated since the 1960s and probably long before that. In 1960 the construction of Llyn Celyn and the flooding of Capel Celyn provoked political uproar which continues to this day. More recently, the construction of Three Gorges Dam and other similar projects throughout Asia, Africa and Latin America have generated considerable environmental and political debate.\n\nCompared to the environmental impact of traditional energy sources, the environmental impact of wind power is relatively minor. Wind powered electricity generation consumes no fuel, and emits no air pollution, unlike fossil fuel power sources. The energy consumed to manufacture and transport the materials used to build a wind power plant is equal to the new energy produced by the plant within a few months. While a wind farm may cover a large area of land, many land uses such as agriculture are compatible, with only small areas of turbine foundations and infrastructure made unavailable for use.\n\nThere are reports of bird and bat mortality at wind turbines, as there are around other artificial structures. The scale of the ecological impact may or may not be significant, depending on specific circumstances. Prevention and mitigation of wildlife fatalities, and protection of peat bogs, affect the siting and operation of wind turbines.\n\nThere are conflicting reports about the effects of noise on people who live very close to a wind turbine.\n\nArtificial light at night is one of the most obvious physical changes that humans have made to the biosphere, and is the easiest form of pollution to observe from space. The main environmental impacts of artificial light are due to light's use as an information source (rather than an energy source). The hunting efficiency of visual predators generally increases under artificial light, changing predator prey interactions. Artificial light also affects dispersal, orientation, migration, and hormone levels, resulting in disrupted circadian rhythms.\n\nThe environmental impact of cleaning agents is diverse. In recent years, measures have been taken to reduce these effects.\n\nNanotechnology's environmental impact can be split into two aspects: the potential for nanotechnological innovations to help improve the environment, and the possibly novel type of pollution that nanotechnological materials might cause if released into the environment. As nanotechnology is an emerging field, there is great debate regarding to what extent industrial and commercial use of nanomaterials will affect organisms and ecosystems.\n\nThe environmental impact of paint is diverse. Traditional painting materials and processes can have harmful effects on the environment, including those from the use of lead and other additives. Measures can be taken to reduce environmental impact, including accurately estimating paint quantities so that wastage is minimized, use of paints, coatings, painting accessories and techniques that are environmentally preferred. The United States Environmental Protection Agency guidelines and Green Star ratings are some of the standards that can be applied.\n\nThe environmental impact of paper is significant, which has led to changes in industry and behaviour at both business and personal levels. With the use of modern technology such as the printing press and the highly mechanised harvesting of wood, paper has become a cheap commodity. This has led to a high level of consumption and waste. With the rise in environmental awareness due to the lobbying by environmental organizations and with increased government regulation there is now a trend towards sustainability in the pulp and paper industry.\n\nSome scientists suggest that by 2050 there could be more plastic than fish in the oceans.\n\nThe environmental impact of pesticides is often greater than what is intended by those who use them. Over 98% of sprayed insecticides and 95% of herbicides reach a destination other than their target species, including nontarget species, air, water, bottom sediments, and food. Pesticide contaminates land and water when it escapes from production sites and storage tanks, when it runs off from fields, when it is discarded, when it is sprayed aerially, and when it is sprayed into water to kill algae.\n\nThe amount of pesticide that migrates from the intended application area is influenced by the particular chemical's properties: its propensity for binding to soil, its vapor pressure, its water solubility, and its resistance to being broken down over time. Factors in the soil, such as its texture, its ability to retain water, and the amount of organic matter contained in it, also affect the amount of pesticide that will leave the area. Some pesticides contribute to global warming and the depletion of the ozone layer.\n\nThe environmental impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products (PPCPs) is largely speculative. PPCPs are substances used by individuals for personal health or cosmetic reasons and the products used by agribusiness to boost growth or health of livestock. PPCPs have been detected in water bodies throughout the world. The effects of these chemicals on humans and the environment are not yet known, but to date there is no scientific evidence that they affect human health.\n\nThe environmental impact of mining includes erosion, formation of sinkholes, loss of biodiversity, and contamination of soil, groundwater and surface water by chemicals from mining processes. In some cases, additional forest logging is done in the vicinity of mines to increase the available room for the storage of the created debris and soil. Besides creating environmental damage, the contamination resulting from leakage of chemicals also affect the health of the local population. Mining companies in some countries are required to follow environmental and rehabilitation codes, ensuring the area mined is returned to close to its original state. Some mining methods may have significant environmental and public health effects.\n\nThe environmental impact of transport is significant because it is a major user of energy, and burns most of the world's petroleum. This creates air pollution, including nitrous oxides and particulates, and is a significant contributor to global warming through emission of carbon dioxide, for which transport is the fastest-growing emission sector. By subsector, road transport is the largest contributor to global warming.\n\nEnvironmental regulations in developed countries have reduced the individual vehicles emission; however, this has been offset by an increase in the number of vehicles, and more use of each vehicle. Some pathways to reduce the carbon emissions of road vehicles considerably have been studied. Energy use and emissions vary largely between modes, causing environmentalists to call for a transition from air and road to rail and human-powered transport, and increase transport electrification and energy efficiency.\n\nOther environmental impacts of transport systems include traffic congestion and automobile-oriented urban sprawl, which can consume natural habitat and agricultural lands. By reducing transportation emissions globally, it is predicted that there will be significant positive effects on Earth's air quality, acid rain, smog and climate change.\n\nThe health impact of transport emissions is also of concern. A recent survey of the studies on the effect of traffic emissions on pregnancy outcomes has linked exposure to emissions to adverse effects on gestational duration and possibly also intrauterine growth.\n\nThe environmental impact of aviation occurs because aircraft engines emit noise, particulates, and gases which contribute to climate change and global dimming. Despite emission reductions from automobiles and more fuel-efficient and less polluting turbofan and turboprop engines, the rapid growth of air travel in recent years contributes to an increase in total pollution attributable to aviation. In the EU, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation increased by 87% between 1990 and 2006. Among other factors leading to this phenomenon are the increasing number of hypermobile travellers and social factors that are making air travel commonplace, such as frequent flyer programs.\n\nThere is an ongoing debate about possible taxation of air travel and the inclusion of aviation in an emissions trading scheme, with a view to ensuring that the total external costs of aviation are taken into account.\n\nThe environmental impact of roads includes the local effects of highways (public roads) such as on noise, light pollution, water pollution, habitat destruction/disturbance and local air quality; and the wider effects including climate change from vehicle emissions. The design, construction and management of roads, parking and other related facilities as well as the design and regulation of vehicles can change the impacts to varying degrees.\n\nThe environmental impact of shipping includes greenhouse gas emissions and oil pollution. In 2007, carbon dioxide emissions from shipping were estimated at 4 to 5% of the global total, and estimated by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) to rise by up to 72% by 2020 if no action is taken. There is also a potential for introducing invasive species into new areas through shipping, usually by attaching themselves to the ship's hull.\n\nThe First Intersessional Meeting of the IMO Working Group on Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Ships took place in Oslo, Norway on 23–27 June 2008. It was tasked with developing the technical basis for the reduction mechanisms that may form part of a future IMO regime to control greenhouse gas emissions from international shipping, and a draft of the actual reduction mechanisms themselves, for further consideration by IMO’s Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC).\n\nGeneral military spending and military activities have marked environmental effects. The United States military is considered one of the worst polluters in the world, responsible for over 39,000 sites contaminated with hazardous materials. Several studies have also found a strong positive correlation between higher military spending and higher carbon emissions where increased military spending has a larger effect on increasing carbon emissions in the Global North than in the Global South. Military activities also affect land use and are extremely resource-intensive.\n\nThe military does not solely have negative effects on the environment. There are several examples of militaries aiding in land management, conservation, and greening of an area. Additionally, certain military technologies have proven extremely helpful for conservationists and environmental scientists.\n\nAs well as the cost to human life and society, there is a significant environmental impact of war. Scorched earth methods during, or after war have been in use for much of recorded history but with modern technology war can cause a far greater devastation on the environment. Unexploded ordnance can render land unusable for further use or make access across it dangerous or fatal.\n\nHuman activity is causing environmental degradation, which is the deterioration of the environment through depletion of resources such as air, water and soil; the destruction of ecosystems; habitat destruction; the extinction of wildlife; and pollution. It is defined as any change or disturbance to the environment perceived to be deleterious or undesirable. As indicated by the I=PAT equation, environmental impact (I) or degradation is caused by the combination of an already very large and increasing human population (P), continually increasing economic growth or per capita affluence (A), and the application of resource-depleting and polluting technology (T).\n\nBiodiversity generally refers to the variety and variability of life on Earth, and is represented by the number of different species there are on the planet. Since its introduction, Homo sapiens (the human species) has been killing off entire species either directly (such as through hunting) or indirectly (such as by destroying habitats), causing the extinction of species at an alarming rate. Humans are the cause of the current mass extinction, called the Holocene extinction, driving extinctions to 100 to 1000 times the normal background rate. Though most experts agree that human beings have accelerated the rate of species extinction, some scholars have postulated without humans, the biodiversity of the Earth would grow at an exponential rate rather than decline. The Holocene extinction continues, with meat consumption, overfishing, ocean acidification and the amphibian crisis being a few broader examples of an almost universal, cosmopolitan decline in biodiversity. Human overpopulation (and continued population growth) along with profligate consumption are considered to be the primary drivers of this rapid decline. A 2017 statement by 15,364 scientists from 184 countries warned that, among other things, this sixth extinction event unleashed by humanity could annihilate many current life forms and consign them to extinction by the end of this century.\n\nDefaunation is the loss of animals from ecological communities.\n\nIt is estimated that more than 50 percent of all wildlife has been lost in the last 40 years. It is estimated that by 2020, 68% of the world's wildlife will be lost. In South America, there is believed to be a 70 percent loss. A May 2018 study published in \"PNAS\" found that 83% of wild mammals, 80% of marine mammals, 50% of plants and 15% of fish have been lost since the dawn of human civilization. Currently, livestock make up 60% of the biomass of all mammals on earth, followed by humans (36%) and wild mammals (4%). \n\nBecause of human overpopulation, coral reefs are dying around the world. In particular, coral mining, pollution (organic and non-organic), overfishing, blast fishing and the digging of canals and access into islands and bays are serious threats to these ecosystems. Coral reefs also face high dangers from pollution, diseases, destructive fishing practices and warming oceans. In order to find answers for these problems, researchers study the various factors that impact reefs. The list of factors is long, including the ocean's role as a carbon dioxide sink, atmospheric changes, ultraviolet light, ocean acidification, biological virus, impacts of dust storms carrying agents to far flung reefs, pollutants, algal blooms and others. Reefs are threatened well beyond coastal areas.\n\nGeneral estimates show approximately 10% world's coral reefs are already dead. It is estimated that about 60% of the world's reefs are at risk due to destructive, human-related activities. The threat to the health of reefs is particularly strong in Southeast Asia, where 80% of reefs are endangered.\n\nGlobal warming is the result of increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations which is caused primarily by the combustion of fossil energy sources such as petroleum, coal, and natural gas, and to an unknown extent by destruction of forests, increased methane, volcanic activity and cement production. Such massive alteration of the global carbon cycle has only been possible because of the availability and deployment of advanced technologies, ranging in application from fossil fuel exploration, extraction, distribution, refining, and combustion in power plants and automobile engines and advanced farming practices. Livestock contributes to climate change both through the production of greenhouse gases and through destruction of carbon sinks such as rain-forests. According to the 2006 United Nations/FAO report, 18% of all greenhouse gas emissions found in the atmosphere are due to livestock. The raising of livestock and the land needed to feed them has resulted in the destruction millions of acres of Rainforest and as global demand for meat rises, so too will the demand for land. Ninety-one percent of all rainforest land deforested since 1970 is now used for livestock. Potential negative environmental impacts caused by increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations are rising global air temperatures, altered hydrogeological cycles resulting in more frequent and severe droughts, storms, and floods, as well as sea level rise and ecosystem disruption.\n\nLand degradation is a process in which the value of the biophysical environment is affected by a combination of human-induced processes acting upon the land. It is viewed as any change or disturbance to the land perceived to be deleterious or undesirable. Natural hazards are excluded as a cause; however human activities can indirectly affect phenomena such as floods and bush fires.\n\nThis is considered to be an important topic of the 21st century due to the implications land degradation has upon agronomic productivity, the environment, and its effects on food security. It is estimated that up to 40% of the world's agricultural land is seriously degraded.\n\nOf particular concern is NO, which has an average atmospheric lifetime of 114–120 years, and is 300 times more effective than CO as a greenhouse gas. NO produced by industrial processes, automobiles and agricultural fertilization and NH emitted from soils (i.e., as an additional byproduct of nitrification) and livestock operations are transported to downwind ecosystems, influencing N cycling and nutrient losses. Six major effects of NO and NH emissions have been identified:\n\nHuman impacts upon the environment, such as pollution and global warming, in turn affect human health.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17867084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17867084", "title": "Indians in Iran", "text": "Indians in Iran\n\nBetween the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many wealthy Parsis, began to travel to Iran from Bombay and Gujarat, to revive the Zoroastrian faith and traditions among the stagnating Zoroastrian community in Iran at the time, with prominent personalities such as civil rights activist, Manekji Limji Hateria of Surat gaining local renown.\n\nIn 1920s, about 180 Indian families went to Zahidan. Following this initial influx, some of them started settling down in the nearby towns of Birijand, Zabol and Mashhad. In 1950s, more Indians migrated to Iran and settled primarily in Tehran. They consisted of Sikhs and Gujaratis. In the 1960s and early 1970s, about 10,000 Indian doctors, engineers, and teachers moved to Iran as a response to the open policies initiated by the Shah of Iran, but most of them left Iran after the Iranian revolution.\n\nNow, there are few hundred people each concentrated in and around Tehran and Zahidan, primarily engaged in various small businesses. A majority are still Indian citizens. They continue to maintain strong links with India, especially in matters of children's education, marriage and property acquisition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8063979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8063979", "title": "Kikokushijo", "text": "Kikokushijo\n\nAs of 2002, roughly 10,000 children of Japanese expatriates return to Japan every year, with a total of roughly 50,000 residing overseas at any one time, a number that had remained roughly constant during the previous decade after rapid growth in the 1970s and 1980s. Only 40% attend Japanese schools while living overseas.\n\nThe Japanese Ministry of Education recognised as early as 1966 that Japan's school system faced challenges in the education and re-integration of children who had returned from overseas. Under the idea of \"nihonjinron\", which stressed the alleged uniqueness of Japanese society, \"kikokushijo\" began to be characterised in the 1970s as problem children who needed assistance in readjusting to Japanese society; they were thought to be too Westernised and individualistic. Much of the image of \"kikokushijo\" as \"educational orphans\" in need of \"rescue\" came from the parents of such children. During the 1980s, however, \"kikokushijo\" came to be seen as a new elite rather than as problems; their language and cultural skills gained respect as valuable tools for the internationalisation of Japan. As of 1997, over 300 universities offered relaxed admissions criteria for \"kikokushijo\", a system which had been attacked as preferential treatment and reverse discrimination. They are often misperceived as fluent speakers of English, though many in fact resided in non-Anglophone countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1055156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1055156", "title": "Kikuyu language", "text": "Kikuyu language\n\nKikuyu or Gikuyu ( ) is a language of the Bantu family spoken primarily by the Kikuyu people (\"Agĩkũyũ\") of Kenya. Numbering about 7 million (22% of Kenya's population), they are the largest ethnic group in Kenya. Kikuyu is spoken in the area between Nyeri and Nairobi. Kikuyu is one of the five languages of the Thagichu subgroup of the Bantu languages, which stretches from Kenya to Tanzania. The Kikuyu people usually identify their lands by the surrounding mountain ranges in Central Kenya which they call \"Kĩrĩnyaga\".\n\nKikuyu has four main mutually intelligible dialects. The Central Province districts are divided along the traditional boundaries of these dialects, which are Kîrînyaga, Mûrang'a, Nyeri and Kiambu. The Kikuyu from Kîrînyaga are composed of two main sub-dialects – the Ndia and Gichugu who speak the dialects \"Kĩndia\" and \"Gĩgĩcũgũ\". The Gicugus and the Ndias do not have the \"ch\" or \"sh\" sound, and will use the \"s\" sound instead, hence the pronunciation of \"Gĩcũgũ\" as opposed to \"Gĩchũgũ\". To hear Ndia being spoken, one needs to be in Kerugoya, the largest town in Kîrînyaga. Other home towns for the Ndia, where purer forms of the dialect are spoken, are located in the tea-growing areas of Kagumo, and the cool Kangaita hills. Lower down the slopes is Kutus, which is a bustling dusty town with so many influences from the other dialects that it is difficult to distinguish between them.The dialect is also prevalent in the rice growing area of Mwea .\n\nThe unmistakable sing-song Gichugu dialect (which sounds like Meru or Embu, a sister language to Kikuyu) can be heard in the coffee-growing areas of Kianyaga, Gĩthũre, Kathũngũri, Marigiti. The Gichugu switch easily to other Kikuyu dialects in conversation with the rest of the Kikuyu.\n\nSymbols shown in parentheses are those used in the orthography.\n\nThe prenasalized consonants are often pronounced without prenasalization, and thus are often realized as .\n\nKikuyu has two level tones (high and low), a low-high rising tone, and downstep.\n\nThe canonical word order of Gĩkũyũ is SVO (subject–verb–object). It uses prepositions rather than postpostions, and adjectives follow nouns.\n\nKikuyu is written in a Latin alphabet. It does not use the letters \"f l p q s v x z\", and adds the letters \"ĩ\" and \"ũ\". The Kikuyu alphabet is:\n\nSome sounds are represented by digraphs such as ng for the velar nasal .\n\nThere is a notable literature written in the Kikuyu language. For instance, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o's \"Mũrogi wa Kagogo\" (\"Wizard of the Crow\") is the longest known book written in Kikuyu. Other authors writing in Kikuyu are Gatua wa Mbũgwa and Waithĩra wa Mbuthia. Mbuthia has published various works in different genres—essays, poetry, children stories and translations—in Kikuyu. The late Wahome Mutahi also sometimes wrote in Kikuyu.\n\nIn the 1983 movie \"Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi\", the character Nien Nunb speaks in the Kikuyu language.\n\n"}
{"id": "8870623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8870623", "title": "Lanjwani", "text": "Lanjwani\n\nThe Lanjwani () are a clan of Rind tribe, Baloch which is settled in the Sindh, Balochistan and Punjab provinces of Pakistan.\n\nAccording to Baloch traditions, their ancestors came from Halab, Syria. They are descendants of Ameer Hamza, uncle of Mohammed, who settled in Halab (present-day Aleppo), after the fight against second Ummayad Caliph Yazid I at Karbala in 680, angered descendants of Ameer Hamza wander way to east or southeast of the central Caspian region, specially toward Sistan, Iran.\nMir Jalal khan was the ruler and founder of the first Balochi confederacy in 12th century. Mir Jalal Khan left four sons Mir Rind Khan, Mir Lashar Khan, Mir Hoth Khan, Mir Kora Khan and daughter Bibi Jato, who married his nephew Murad. These five are the founders of the five great divisions of the Baloch tribes, the Rind, Lashari, Hoth, Korai and Jatoi. The Rind had been appointed Royal by his father.\n\nLanjo Khan son of Babu Khan Rind, Baloch was the name of their ancestor, after whom they are now called Lanjwani. Mir Lanjo Khan left five sons 1) Rais, 2) Kalo, 3) Yar Mohammed, 4) Yousif and 5 Karim Ali. Their descendants now adopted the names Raisani, Kalozi, Yarozai, Yousifzai and Karamzai Lanjwani.\n\n1) Skeikh Sadik Ali Ansari, A short Sketch historical and traditional of the Muslaman races found in Sindh, Balochistan and Afanistan, pages 18, 85, published by Indus Publication Karachi, Pakistan in 1901.\n\n2) Khair Mohammed Burrio, Encyclopedia of tribes, published by Murad publication Sehwan sharif page 701.\n\n3) Dr. Shahnawaz, Lanjwani, notes on the Lanjwani tribe, page 1-46.\n\n4) Dr. Sigrid Westphal-Helibusch and Dr. Heinz, Weslphal, The Jat of Pakistan, published by Lok Virsa, Islamabad, Pakisatan, page 52.\n\n5) Olson et al (1994). An Ethnohistorical Dictionary of Russian and Soviet Empires. Greenwood publishing group, page 101.\n\n6) Kreyenbroek, Philip G. (2010). Oral literature of Iranian Languages: Kurdish, Pashto, Balochi, Ossetic, Persian and Tajik companion Volume 11 and History of Persian literature Volume 18.\n\n7) S.A.J. Shirazi. Heritage Village, Pakistan. Travelers Digest. Overseas Pakistan Foundation. Provinces of Pakistan (Balochistan). Encyclopedia of Pakistan.\n\n1) Lonworth Dames, Mansel (1904) The Baloch race, A historical and ethnological sketch. Asiatic Society Monographs Vol 1, Vol, Royal Asiatic Society, Retrieved April 22, 2014.\n\n2) Saeed Khan Lanjwani, History of Lanjwani tribes in Punjab papes 1-60.\n\n3)Goeje, M. J. de: Contribution to the history of the Gypsies. Koninklijke Akademie Van Wetenschappen of Amsterdam, 1875.\n\n4) Postans, T: Personal Observation on Sindh, the manners and customs its inhabitants, London 1843. Journal of the Asiatic Society Of Bengal, X11.\n"}
{"id": "55562693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55562693", "title": "Like. Share. Follow.", "text": "Like. Share. Follow.\n\nLike. Share. Follow. is a 2017 American psychological horror film written and directed by Glenn Gers. It stars Keiynan Lonsdale and Ema Horvath.\n\nThe film had its world premiere at the Screamfest Horror Film Festival on October 18, 2017. It was released on October 31, 2017 by Blumhouse Productions, Gunpowder & Sky and Cinemax.\n\nGarrett, a rising YouTube star, begins a relationship with Shell, an obsessive fan, who wants to destroy his life.\n\n\nPrincipal photography on the film began on September 15, 2015.\n\nIt had its world premiere at the Screamfest Horror Film Festival on October 18, 2017. The film was released on October 31, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "53899706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53899706", "title": "Marjorie Zatz", "text": "Marjorie Zatz\n\nMarjorie Sue Zatz (born December 19, 1955) is an American sociologist and professor of sociology at the University of California, Merced, where she is also the Vice Provost and Graduate Dean.\nZatz received her B.A. from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst in 1977, where she majored in sociology and minored in Latin American studies. She went on to receive her M.A. and Ph.D. in sociology from Indiana University, Bloomington in 1979 and 1982, respectively. Her Ph.D. minor was Latin American studies. She joined the faculty of Arizona State University in 1982 as an assistant professor. On July 16, 2012, she began working at the National Science Foundation as the director of their Law and Social Sciences program. In 2014, she left the National Science Foundation and Arizona State University to join the faculty of the University of California, Merced.\n\n"}
{"id": "567600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567600", "title": "Meitei language", "text": "Meitei language\n\nMeitei (also Manipuri , Meithei, Meetei, Meeʁteilon) is the predominant language and lingua franca in the southeastern Himalayan state of Manipur, in northeastern India. It is the official language in government offices. Meitei is also spoken in the Northeast Indian states of Assam and Tripura, and in Bangladesh and Burma (now Myanmar). It is currently classified as a vulnerable language by UNESCO.\n\nMeitei is a tonal language whose exact classification remains unclear. It has lexical resemblances to Kuki and Tangkhul Naga.\n\nIt has been recognised (under the name \"Manipuri\") by the Indian Union and has been included in the list of scheduled languages (included in the 8th schedule by the 71st amendment of the constitution in 1992). Meitei is taught as a subject up to the post-graduate level (Ph.D.) in some universities of India, apart from being a medium of instruction up to the undergraduate level in Manipur. Education in government schools is provided in Meitei through the eighth standard.\n\nThe name \"Meitei\" or its alternate spelling \"Meithei\" is preferred by many native speakers of Meitei over \"Manipuri.\" The term is derived from the Meitei word for the language \"Meitheirón\" (\"Meithei\" + \"-lon\" 'language'). \"Meithei\" may be a compound from \"mí\" 'man' + \"they\" 'separate'. This term is used by most western linguistic scholarship. Meitei scholars use the term \"Mei(h)tei\" when writing in English and the term \"Meitheirón\" when writing in Meitei. Chelliah (2015: 89) notes that the \"Meitei\" spelling has replaced the earlier \"Meithei\" spelling.\n\nThe language (and people) is also referred to by the loconym \"Manipuri.\" The term is derived from name of the state of Manipur. \"Manipur\" itself has a mythological folk etymology, in which a shining diamond called \"mani\" ('jewel') in Sanskrit is thrown from the head of a snake god Vasuki, which spreads natural beauty throughout the land. \"Manipuri\" is the official name of the language for the Indian government and is used by government institutions and non-Meitei authors. The term \"Manipuri\" is also used to refer to the Bishnupriya and people. Additionally, \"Manipuri,\" being a loconym, can refer to anything pertaining to Manipur state.\n\nThe term \"Meetei\" is used by Meitei speakers who want political autonomy from India, so-called \"revivalists\".\n\nMeitei contains various dialects; however, in more recent years the broadening of communication, as well as intermarriage, has caused the differences between these dialects to become nearly insignificant. The only exceptions to this occurrence are the speech differences of the dialects found in Tripura, Bangladesh and Myanmar. The exact number of dialects of Meitei is unknown.\n\nThe three main dialects of Meitei include: Meitei proper, Loi and the Pangal. Differences found within Meitei's dialects are primarily characterised by the extensions of new sounds and tonal shifts. Meitei proper is considered, of the three, to be the standard dialect—and is considered to be more dynamic than the other two dialects. Slight variations in dialects can be seen in the following table:\nDevi (2002) compares the Imphal, Andro, Koutruk, and Kakching dialects of Meitei.\n\nThe Meitei language is a tonal language. There is a controversy over whether there are two or three tones.\n\nMeitei makes use of the following sounds:\n\nNote: the central vowel /ɐ/ is transcribed as <ə> in recent linguistic work on Meitei. However, phonetically it is never [ə], but more usually [ɐ]. It is assimilated to a following approximant: /ɐw/ = /ow/, /ɐj/ = [ej].\n\nA velar deletion is noted to occur on the suffix -lək when following a syllable ending with a /k/ phoneme.\n\nMeitei has a dissimilatory process similar to Grassmann's Law found in Ancient Greek and Sanskrit. Here, an aspirated consonant is deaspirated if preceded by an aspirated consonant (including ) in the previous syllable. The deaspirated consonants are then voiced between sonorants.\n\n\nMeitei has its own script, which was used until the 18th century. Its earliest use is not known. Pamheiba, the ruler of the Manipur Kingdom who introduced Hinduism, banned the use of the Meitei script and adopted the Bengali script. Now in schools and colleges the Bengali script is gradually being replaced by the Meitei script. The local organisations have played a major role in spreading the awareness about its own script.\n\nMany Meitei documents were destroyed at the beginning of the 18th century during the reign of Hindu converted King Pamheiba, under the instigation of the Bengali Hindu missionary, Shantidas Gosai.\n\nBetween 1709 and the middle of the 20th century, the Meitei language was written using the Bengali script. During the 1940s and 1950s, Meitei scholars began campaigning to bring back the Old Meitei (Old Manipuri) alphabet. In 1976 at a writers conference, all the scholars finally agreed on a new version of the alphabet containing a number of additional letters to represent sounds not present in Meitei when the script was first developed. The current Meitei alphabet is a reconstruction of the ancient Meitei script.\n\nSince the early 1980s, the Meitei alphabet has been taught in schools in Manipur.\n\nIt is a syllabic alphabet in which consonants all have an inherent vowel /a/. Other vowels are written as independent letters or by using diacritical marks that are written above, below, before or after the consonant they belong to. Each letter is named after a part of the human body.\n\nThere are some texts from the Maring and Limbu tribes of Manipur, which were written in the Meitei script.\n\nThere exists an informal, but fairly consistent practical spelling of Meitei in Latin script. This spelling is used in the transcription of personal names and place names, and it is extensively used on the internet (Facebook, blogspots, etc.). It is also found in academic publications, for the spelling of Meitei book titles and the like (examples can be seen in the References, below). This spelling on the whole offers a transparent, unambiguous representation of the Meitei sound system, although the tones are usually not marked. It is \"practical\" in the sense that it does not use extra-alphabetical symbols, and can therefore be produced easily on any standard keyboard. The only point of ambiguity is found in the spelling of the vowels /ɐ/ and /a/, which are usually both written \"a\", except when they occur before an approximant (see table below). The vowel /a/ is sometimes written as \"aa\" to distinguish it from /ɐ/.\n\nBangladesh and India currently use Eastern Nagari.\n\nAgreement in nouns and pronouns is expressed to clarify singular and plural cases through the addition of the suffixes -khoi (for personal pronouns and human proper nouns) and -sing (for all other nouns). Verbs associated with the pluralised nouns are unaffected. Examples are demonstrated below:\n\nWhen adjectives are used to be more clear, Meitei utilises separate words and does not add a suffix to the noun. Examples are show in the chart below:\nCompound verbs are created by combining root verbs each ending with aspect markers. While the variety of suffixes is high, all compound verbs utilise one of two:\nAspect markers appear as suffixes that clarify verb tense and appear at the end of the compound verb. Overall, the formula to construct a compound verb becomes [root verb] + [suffix] + [aspect marker]:\n\nCompound verbs can also be formed utilising both compound suffixes as well, allowing utterances such as \"pithokningle\" meaning \"want to give out\".\n\nThe culture involved with the Meetei language is rooted deeply with pride and tradition based on having respect to the community elders. Young children who do not know about the tales that have been passed on from generation to generation are very rare. Regarding the history behind the ancient use of proverbs that defines the way conversation is held with the Meetei language, it is a way of expressing and telling stories and even using modern slang with old proverbs to communicate between one another. Singh has analyzed features of Meitei proverbs.\n\nThe Meitei language is known to be one of the oldest languages in northeastern India and has a lengthy 2000-year period of existence. It had its own script. The history behind the Meitei language itself comes primarily from the medieval period of northeastern India.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "715217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=715217", "title": "Michael Buffer", "text": "Michael Buffer\n\nMichael Buffer (born November 2, 1944) is an American ring announcer for boxing and professional wrestling matches. He is known for his trademarked catchphrase, \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" and for pioneering a distinct announcing style in which he rolls certain letters and adds other inflections to a fighter's name. His half-brother is UFC announcer Bruce Buffer.\n\nBuffer was born and raised in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, to an enlisted man in the United States Navy and his wife during World War II. His parents divorced when he was 11 months of age, and Buffer was then raised by foster parents, a school bus driver and housewife, in the Philadelphia suburb of Roslyn. He enlisted in the United States Army during the Vietnam War at age 20 and served until age 23. He held various jobs including a car salesman, then began a modeling career at age 32 before becoming a ring announcer at age 38.\n\nIn 1982, Buffer began his career as a ring announcer. By 1983, he was announcing all boxing matches promoted by Bob Arum's Top Rank on ESPN, which gave him a national identity at a time when ring announcers were strictly locally hired talent. By 1984, Buffer developed the catchphrase \"Let's get ready to rumble\" in his announcing, which gained enormous popularity. He began the process of obtaining a federal trademark for the phrase in the 1980s, acquiring it in 1992. Consequently, Buffer has earned in excess of $400 million with the license for his trademark.\n\nBy the late 1980s, Buffer was the exclusive ring announcer for all bouts in Donald Trump-owned casinos. Trump said of Buffer, \"He's great, he's the choice, he has a unique ability...I told my people, 'We got to have him.'\" Buffer's work was also admired by many boxing greats. Sugar Ray Leonard once said, \"When [Buffer] introduces a fighter, it makes him want to fight.\" \n\nIn 2018, Buffer signed with DAZN to serve as ring announcer for all of its boxing broadcasts, which include deals with Matchroom and Canelo Álvarez.\n\nBuffer was formerly the exclusive ring announcer for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) main events featuring Hulk Hogan or other top WCW talent until 2001, when the organization folded. WCW's former parent company Time Warner owned through their pay-per-view subscription division HBO, which broadcast many matches from promoter Top Rank, of which Buffer is the lead ring announcer. The exclusivity of his contract with WCW prevented Buffer from announcing for other wrestling-type organizations, forcing him to stop announcing for the UFC (his only UFC cards were UFC 6 and UFC 7). However, when WCW ceased to exist, and Time Warner had no more affiliation with professional wrestling, Buffer was enabled to announce in other wrestling promotions. During the Monday Night Wars, while Buffer was on \"WCW Monday Nitro\", WWF wrestler Triple H created the phrase \"Let's get ready to suck it!\" to mock him, as part of his D-Generation X act.\n\nOn the August 18, 2007 edition of Saturday Night's Main Event, for the first time in more than six years, Buffer returned to pro-wrestling ring announcing duties at Madison Square Garden in a boxing match between pro boxer Evander Holyfield (who was substituting for Montel Vontavious Porter) and pro wrestler Matt Hardy. Buffer appears in the Royal Rumble 2008 commercial, in which he begins to say \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" only to be superkicked by Shawn Michaels, causing him to fall over. As well as being in the commercial for the event, he was the guest ring announcer during the Royal Rumble match itself.\n\nDuring his career, Buffer has announced the World Series, Stanley Cup Final, NBA Finals, the Volunteer 500 at Bristol Motor Speedway, and NFL playoff games. He was a guest announcer at the 1999 Indianapolis 500 and the 2017 United States Grand Prix.\n\nBuffer, like his brother Bruce, announced early UFC fights, starting at UFC 6 in 1995. He was the host of Versus' boxing retro show \"Legends of the Ring\", produced by Top Rank, Inc., where he was ring announcer for most of their top matches.\n\nOn July 19, 2008, he announced the mixed martial arts show. On November 10, 2008, Buffer started the heads-up action between the two remaining players, Peter Eastgate and Ivan Demidov at the 2008 World Series of Poker final table with a modified version of his trademark statement, \"Let's get ready to shuffle up and deal\".\n\nBuffer appeared at the University of Kentucky's men's basketball teams' legendary \"Big Blue Madness\" on October 14, 2016. Instead of his traditional \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" Buffer announced the beginning of the event with \"Let's get ready to roundball!\".\n\nHe kept up this tradition on Saturday, January 28 when he announced his new rendition again at the perennial Blue Blood rivalry between the men's basketball teams of the University of Kentucky and the University of Kansas.\n\nBuffer has appeared on various talk shows hosted by Jay Leno, David Letterman, Arsenio Hall, Conan O'Brien and Jimmy Kimmel. He has also appeared on \"Saturday Night Live\", \"In Living Color\", \"Mad TV\" and \"The Howard Stern Show\".\n\nHe appeared on NBC's \"Deal or No Deal\" on December 10, 2007, and opened the finale of the seventh season of \"American Idol\", a production of RTL. In 2011 he made an appearance on the 12th season of Dancing with the Stars to announce Sugar Ray Leonard week 3 dance. Buffer has also served as ringside announcer for the syndicated television game show \"The Grudge Match\", hosted by Steve Albert and Jesse Ventura.\n\nHe has played himself in various films including \"Ready to Rumble\" and \"Rocky Balboa\", and in 2008 Buffer appeared as Walbridge, the main villain in the comedy \"You Don't Mess with the Zohan\".\n\nBuffer has been animated in \"The Simpsons\", \"South Park\", and \"Celebrity Deathmatch\". Buffer also appears in the animated TV series \"Phineas and Ferb\" in the episode \"Raging Bully\", as the voice of the announcer for the big thumb-wrestling match with Phineas and Buford. Buffer appeared in the extended version of the Muppets webisode \"Food Fight\", where he is seen announcing the cooking competition between Gordon Ramsay and the Swedish Chef.\n\nBuffer appears as featuring artist on \"Let's Get Ready to Rumble\" and \"Go for It All!\" by German eurodance group the K.O.'s and his voice was sampled in the Ant & Dec song \"Let's Get Ready to Rhumble\". He recorded the introduction track for country artist Josh Turner's 2012 album, \"Punching Bag\".\n\nIn 2013, Buffer appeared in Progressive Insurance commercials, promoting their program of combining different coverages into one policy, with a parody of his famous phrase - \"Let's get ready to bundle!\" \n\nHe was also the announcer for the YouTube Boxing match between KSI vs Logan Paul on August 25, 2018.\n\nBuffer reproduced as an action figure in both Toy Biz's WCW line and Jakks Pacific's Rocky line.\n\nBuffer began using the phrase \"Let's get ready to rumble!\" in 1984. By 1992, he acquired a federal trademark for the phrase. Buffer uses his famous phrase in various licensing deals including the platinum selling album \"Jock Jams\" by Tommy Boy Records, the video games \"Ready 2 Rumble Boxing\", \"\" for the PlayStation 2, Nintendo 64, Dreamcast and Game Boy Advance and \"Greatest Heavyweights of the Ring\" for the Sega Genesis and numerous other products. In addition, he has used variations of the phrase in advertisements, including the popular commercial for Mega Millions in which he says \"Let's get ready to Win Big!\" and the Kraft Cheese commercial in which he says \"Let's get ready to Crumble!\" and most recently for Progressive Insurance in which he says \"Let's get ready to bundle!\"\nThe phrase, \"Are you ready to rumble?\" is spoken in the 1957 television show \"Maverick\", titled \"Stage West\" (episode 6, season one).\nby the stage coach driver to the passengers as he prepares to leave in the stage coach. \nAs of 2009, the catchphrase has generated $400 million in revenue from licensing the trademark.\n\nBuffer's fame has reunited him with long-lost family members. In 1989, Buffer was contacted by his birth-father, who introduced Buffer to his half-brothers after seeing him on television. In the mid-1990s, Buffer brought along one of his half-brothers, Bruce Buffer, as his agent/manager. This grew into a business partnership to increase licensing productivity of the trademark.\n\nBuffer first wed at age 21 but the marriage ended in divorce after seven years. He has two sons from his first marriage. More than 25 years passed before he remarried in 1999. He and his second wife divorced in 2003.\n\nOn September 13, 2007, while making an appearance on \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\", he proposed to his current (third) wife, Christine. Buffer currently resides in Southern California. His half-brother Bruce Buffer is the announcer for leading mixed martial arts promotion, Ultimate Fighting Championship.\n\nIn 2008 Buffer was treated for throat cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "43391932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43391932", "title": "Modern witch-hunts", "text": "Modern witch-hunts\n\nWitch-hunts are today practiced in modern times throughout the world. While prevalent in all continents, hot-spots of current witch-hunting are India, Papua New Guinea, Amazonas Region and Sub-Saharan Africa. While an unknown problem in vast parts of the Western population, body-counts of modern witch-hunts by far exceed those of early-modern witch-hunting.\n\nOf main terminological interest in ethnographic literature were the emic perspectives and differentiations between witchcraft (spiritual) and sorcery (possible empiric actions like creating amuletts, charms, chanting spells and curses) and the classification and translation of native terminology concerning spiritual offenses and powers. Ethnographic literature has used the term \"sorcerer-hunt\", which is used equivalent to witch-hunt. Also \"sorcery\" and \"sorcellerie\" is sometimes used as equivalent to \"witchcraft\". A confusion of the terms \"witch-hunt\", \"witchcraft\" and \"witchcraft notions\" permeates scientific literature.\n\nIn this article, only those cases are referred to as witch-hunts, that involve the notion of a spiritual crime. Closely related and sometimes included are accusations of sorcery, where a potentially observable act is suggested, but rarely proven.\nActs of lynching involving fabricated rumors of ritual murders occur frequently in Sub-Saharan Africa. They can be classified as very closely related to witch-hunts.\n\nNot included is the different phenomenon ritual murder or any ritual abuse, which is sometimes referred to as witchcraft or witch-hunting (meaning the man-hunt for body-parts for ritual purposes).\n\nA common parlance refers to witch-hunts as \"witchcraft\", a confusion of topics. Another common parlance refers to political persecution in general as \"witch-hunt\", an example were the trials of McCarthyism in the USA.\n\nMost witch-hunts today take place in modern sub-Saharan Africa. The majority of ethnographic literature on the subject remains on a local level. Summarizing studies and meta-analysis remain scarce due to the amount of data involved. Max Marwick, John Middleton, Mary Douglas and Lucy Mair were among the first to cover a wider range of witch-hunts. In recent times, Wolfgang Behringer has provided an overview about witch-hunts throughout history and continents.\n\nA particularly high prevalence of recent witch-hunting has been noted for the DRC, South Africa, Tanzania, Kenya and Nigeria. Other states showing ongoing and repeated witch-hunts are Malawi, Ghana, Gambia, Benin, Angola, CAR. While some societies suffer at most sporadic and low-level witch-hunts (Senegal, Namibia, Rwanda), the entire Sub-Saharan Africa shows a high prevalence of beliefs in the existence of witchcraft and a considerable prevalence of violent witch-hunts. Nonetheless, many if not most ethnic groups belief in the existence of witchcraft but do not or not normally accuse people of witchcraft. Where accusations occur, accusations do not in all places lead to violence and can be even used for benefits by the accused person.\n\nSeveral African states, including Cameroon, have reestablished witchcraft-accusations in courts after their independence. From Cameroon, Robert Brain and Peter Geschiere delivered ethnographic accounts on a child-witchcraft scare that tended to remain largely peacefully. After confessions, the accused or self-accused children were rewarded with large amounts of meat to induce a purifying vomiting.\nIn March 2009, Amnesty International reported that up to 1,000 people in the Gambia had been abducted by government-sponsored \"witch doctors\" on charges of witchcraft, and taken to detention centers where they were forced to drink poisonous concoctions. On 21 May 2009, The New York Times reported that the alleged witch-hunting campaign had been sparked by the Gambian President, Yahya Jammeh.\n\nResearch on witch-hunting in Ghana dates back into the early 20th century. Arthur W. Cardinall may be the first anthropologist to mention the Ghetto for victims of witch-hunts at an earth-shrine in Gnani (Tindang, Gnaani). A later research of Susan Drucker-Brown observed and discussed the renowned Ghetto in Gambaga. In 2004, the documentary \"Witches in Exile\" by Allison Berg followed the structure of accusations in Kukuo, the biggest Ghetto near Bimbilla. Another documentary, \"The Witches of Gambaga\", follows over 10 years the inmates of Gambaga. The \"Bradt Travel Guides\" mentions the ghetto in Gambaga as a tourist attraction. \nA total of eight sanctuaries for witch-hunt victims were listed by the Ethnologist Felix Riedel. The list of sanctuaries includes so far (locations with inmates):\n\nWhile all are sanctuaries that offer protection for outcasts, at least five of the eight ghettoes are dominated by an earth-priest. They then serve as sites for traditional exorcisms, that involve a chicken-ordeal to determine the guilt or innocence of an accused person and a concoction to cleanse the supposed witchcraft-power. The local earth is believed to neutralize the witchcraft powers. \nEthnographic research and journalistic interest in the comparably safe and well-researched Northern Ghana sometimes lead to an overrepresentation of Ghana what witch-hunting concerns. Neighbouring regions and countries appear underrepresented in current research in comparison.\n\nIn the southern parts of Ghana as in its urban areas witch-hunting as mass-violence occurs, but far less frequent than in the Northern Regions. Deadly mass-panics in Accra and Kumasi involved media-induced penis-theft-hysterias common throughout Western and Central Africa. In general, witchcraft accusations in Southern Ghana today tend to stay rather peaceful or at least quiet, leading to social isolation of a person. A study of Van der Geest also showed, that almost every person in a Southern Ghanaian town has both experienced an accusation and accused another person.\n\nIn the early 20th century, several Witch-hunting movements spread from Northern Ghana's shrine Tongnaab into Southern Ghana and into Nigeria. Those movements tended to stay rather peaceful, while harassment, beating and fining of accused persons occurred on a regular base.\n\nKenya has a long-covered history of witch-hunts. In the past years, lynchings were a frequent feature of public violence. \nFor example, it was reported on 21 May 2008 that in Kenya a mob had burnt to death at least 11 people accused of witchcraft.\n\nIn Sierra Leone, the witch-hunt is an occasion for a sermon by the kɛmamɔi (native Mende witch-finder) on social ethics : \"Witchcraft ... takes hold in people's lives when people are less than fully open-hearted. All wickedness is ultimately because people hate each other or are jealous or suspicious or afraid. These emotions and motivations cause people to act antisocially\". The response by the populace to the kɛmamɔi is that \"they valued his work and would learn the lessons he came to teach them, about social responsibility and cooperation.\"\n\nTanzania has seen some of the most intense witch-hunts throughout Africa with an estimated 20,000 people brought to death throughout the past 20 years. Mostly elderly women were affected by the violence. As a main factor, economic strains and exploitation are named by documentaries, state-reports and independent observers.\n\nAudrey I. Richards, in the journal \"Africa\", relates in 1935 an instance when a new wave of witchfinders, the \"Bamucapi\", appeared in the villages of the Bemba people of Zambia. They dressed in European clothing, and would summon the headman to prepare a ritual meal for the village. When the villagers arrived they would view them all in a mirror, and claimed they could identify witches with this method. These accused persons would then have to \"yield up his horns\"; i.e. give over the horn containers for curses and evil potions to the witch-finders. The bamucapi then made all drink a potion called \"kucapa\" which would cause a witch to die and swell up if he ever tried such things again.\n\nThe villagers related that the witch-finders were always right because the witches they found were always the people whom the village had feared all along. The bamucapi utilised a mixture of Christian and native religious traditions to account for their powers and said that God (not specifying which God) helped them to prepare their medicine. In addition, all witches who did not attend the meal to be identified would be called to account later on by their master, who had risen from the dead, and who would force the witches by means of drums to go to the graveyard, where they would die. Richards noted that the bamucapi created the sense of danger in the villages by rounding up \"all\" the horns in the village, whether they were used for anti-witchcraft charms, potions, snuff or were indeed receptacles of black magic.\n\nSome people in India, mostly in villages, have the belief that witchcraft and black magic are effective. On one hand, people may seek advice from witch doctors for health, financial or marital problems. On the other hand, people, especially women, are accused of witchcraft and attacked, occasionally killed. It has been reported that mostly widows or divorcees are targeted to rob them of their property. Reportedly, revered village witch-doctors are paid to brand specific persons as witches, so that they can be killed without repercussions. The existing laws have been considered ineffective in curbing the murders. In June 2013, National Commission for Women (NCW) reported that according to National Crime Records Bureau statistics, 768 women had been murdered for allegedly practising witchcraft since 2008 and announced plans for newer laws.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2006, an estimated 300 people were killed in the state of Assam. Between 2005 and 2010, about 35 witchcraft related murders reportedly took place in Odisha's Sundergarh district. In October 2003, three women were branded as witch and humiliated, afterwards they all committed suicide in Kamalpura village in Muzaffarpur district in Bihar. In August 2013, a couple were hacked to death by a group of people in Kokrajhar district in Assam. In September 2013, in the Jashpur district of Chhattisgarh, a woman was murdered and her daughter was raped on the allegation that they were practising black magic.\n\nA 2010 estimate places the number of women killed as witches in India at between 150 and 200 per year, or a total of 2,500 in the period of 1995 to 2009. The lynchings are particularly common in the poor northern states of Jharkhand, Bihar and the central state of Chhattisgarh.\nWitch hunts are also taking place among the tea garden workers in Jalpaiguri, West Bengal India. The witch hunts in Jalpaiguri are less known, but are motivated by the stress in the tea industry on the lives of the adivasi workers.\n\nIn India, labeling a woman as a witch is a common ploy to grab land, settle scores or even to punish her for turning down sexual advances. In a majority of the cases, it is difficult for the accused woman to reach out for help and she is forced to either abandon her home and family or driven to commit suicide. Most cases are not documented because it is difficult for poor and illiterate women to travel from isolated regions to file police reports. Less than 2 percent of those accused of witch-hunting are actually convicted, according to a study by the Free Legal Aid Committee, a group that works with victims in the state of Jharkhand.\n\nIn Indonesia, the collapse of the genocidal Suharto-era was accompanied by witch-hunts with about 400 deaths.\n\nWitch hunts in Nepal are common, and are targeted especially against low-caste women. The main causes of witchcraft related violence include widespread belief in superstition, lack of education, lack of public awareness, illiteracy, caste system, male domination, and economic dependency of women on men. The victims of this form of violence are often beaten, tortured, publicly humiliated, and murdered. Sometimes, the family members of the accused are also assaulted.\nIn 2010, Sarwa Dev Prasad Ojha, minister for women and social welfare, said, \"Superstitions are deeply rooted in our society, and the belief in witchcraft is one of the worst forms of this.\" \n\nThough the practice of \"white\" magic (such as faith healing) is legal in Papua New Guinea, the 1976 Sorcery Act imposes a penalty of up to 2 years in prison for the practice of \"black\" magic. In 2009, the government reports that extrajudicial torture and murder of alleged witches – usually lone women – are spreading from the highland areas to cities as villagers migrate to urban areas. For example, in June 2013, four women were accused of witchcraft because the family \"had a 'permanent house' made of wood, and the family had tertiary educations and high social standing\". All of the women were tortured and Helen Rumbali was beheaded. Helen Hakena, chairwoman of the North Bougainville Human Rights Committee, said that the accusations started because of economic jealousy born of a mining boom.\n\nReports by UN agencies, Amnesty International, Oxfam and anthropologists show that \"attacks on accused sorcerers and witches — sometimes men, but most commonly women — are frequent, ferocious and often fatal.\" It's estimated about 150 cases of violence and killings are occurring each year in just the province of Simbu in Papua New Guinea alone. Reports indicate this practice of witch hunting has in some places evolved into \"something more malignant, sadistic and voyeuristic.\" One woman who was attacked by young men from a nearby village \"had her genitals burned and fused beyond functional repair by the repeated intrusions of red-hot irons.\" Few incidents are ever reported, according to the 2012 Law Reform Commission which concluded that they have increased since the 1980s.\n\nWitchcraft or sorcery remains a criminal offense in Saudi Arabia, although the precise nature of the crime is undefined.\n\nThe frequency of prosecutions for this in the country as whole is unknown. However, in November 2009, it was reported that 118 persons had been arrested in the province of Makkah that year for practising magic and \"using the Book of Allah in a derogatory manner\", 74% of them being female. According to Human Rights Watch in 2009, prosecutions for witchcraft and sorcery are proliferating and \"Saudi courts are sanctioning a literal witch hunt by the religious police.\"\n\nIn 2006, an illiterate Saudi woman, Fawza Falih, was convicted of practising witchcraft, including casting an impotence spell, and sentenced to death by beheading, after allegedly being beaten and forced to fingerprint a false confession that had not been read to her. After an appeal court had cast doubt on the validity of the death sentence because the confession had been retracted, the lower court reaffirmed the same sentence on a different basis.\n\nIn 2007, Mustafa Ibrahim, an Egyptian national, was executed, having been convicted of using sorcery in an attempt to separate a married couple, as well as of adultery and of desecrating the Quran.\n\nAlso in 2007, Abdul Hamid Bin Hussain Bin Moustafa al-Fakki, a Sudanese national, was sentenced to death after being convicted of producing a spell that would lead to the reconciliation of a divorced couple.\n\nIn 2009, Ali Sibat, a Lebanese television presenter who had been arrested whilst on a pilgrimage in Saudi Arabia, was sentenced to death for witchcraft arising out of his fortune-telling on an Arab satellite channel. His appeal was accepted by one court, but a second in Medina upheld his death sentence again in March 2010, stating that he deserved it as he had publicly practised sorcery in front of millions of viewers for several years. In November 2010, the Supreme Court refused to ratify the death sentence, stating that there was insufficient evidence that his actions had harmed others.\n\nOn 12 December 2011, Amina bint Abdulhalim Nassar was beheaded in Al Jawf Province after being convicted of practicing witchcraft and sorcery. Another very similar situation occurred to Muree bin Ali bin Issa al-Asiri and he was beheaded on 19 June 2012 in the Najran Province.\n\nNeil L. Whitehead and Robin Wright presented a collection of essays on witch-hunts among native tribes in the amazon high- and lowlands. While prevalent in many tribes, especially child-witch-hunts among Ashaninka have attracted interest and raised questions about methodological strategies in reporting abusive practices in an already biased environment.\n\nWitch-hunts against children appear in the early ethnographic literature. In Cameroon, DRC, Ghana, but also in Brazil sporadic child-witch-hunts have a tradition of at least 100 years. In the past 20 years and especially in the past 10 years an unprecedented increase in child-witch-hunting has been noted in Southern Nigeria, DRC, Angola, Ghana and other sub-Saharan regions. Several sources estimate 40,000 children in Kinshasa alone as witch-hunt-related orphans. \nPublic awareness of witch-hunting outside Africa is low compared to other conflicts. In early social/cultural anthropology, ethnology and other cultural sciences, witchcraft beliefs and witch-hunts ranked as paradigmatic problems especially from the late 19th century into the first half of the 20th century, the time of the creative career of James George Frazer. With the loss of interest in overarching theories and development-problems bound to the late colonial era, witch-hunts and witchcraft-beliefs were treated as an issue of specialists. Ethnograhpies divide sharply in critical reports of violence and in rationalizations of witchcraft-beliefs as useful functions according to paradigms of structural functionalism with its main proponents Bronislaw Malinowski and his student E.E. Evans-Pritchard. In this tradition, the focus of research was shifted on supposed social functions of witchcraft-beliefs and less frequent, violent witch-hunts. Both were considered as ensuring the survival and identity of an ingroup. \nOne of the last competing generalizing theorists was Lucien Lévy-Bruhl. He collected material of societies that were first contacted by the source writing about its behaviour. He then provides evidence of counterproductive witch-hunting that serves no real social function, but arises from an entirely different worldview, the \"prelogic\" mindset opposed to logic.\n"}
{"id": "8332346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8332346", "title": "Negrescence", "text": "Negrescence\n\nNegrescence is a word with a Latin origin. It describes a process of becoming black or developing a racial identity. It can also refer to having a dark complexion.\n\nNegrescense extends through history by those victimized by racism and white supremacy. Psychological adaptations instigated identity formation for persons of African American descent. \n\nIn 1885, John Beddoe compiled an index of negrescence to analyze the population of the British Isles. Beddoe used the physical descriptions of a population of 13,000 males to compile his index. He gave one point to a male with red or blonde hair. He gave one point to men with dark hair as well. A black-haired male was given two points. If the male had brown- or chestnut-colored, hair, they were considered neutral. He created a map that showed distribution of negrescence in Britain. This map was recreated and published by R. H. Hodgkin in 1935. It showed that the hair color of men in western Scotland, Wales, and Ireland was darker than the hair color of males in eastern England and eastern Scotland. \n\nThis analysis was used to support Beddoe's theory that the Irish had the physical characteristics of the indigenous, aboriginal people of the British Isles. \n\nProfessor William E. Cross, Jr. of the City University of New York's Graduate Center included a theory of Nigrescence in his groundbreaking book \"Shades of Black: Diversity in African American Identity\", which was published in 1991. His theory assumed that African Americans proceed through a series of distinct psychological stages as they move from self-degradation to self-pride over time. \n\nCharles Thomas came up with the concept of negromachy. He believed there was a confusion of self-worth where the person shows inappropriate dependence on white society for self definition. He created a five stage nigrescence model. \n\nBailey Jackson created a four stage nigrescense model. \n\nFrantz Fanon coined the term \"To become black\" which meant as a process of developing a black identity under conditions of oppression. \n\nFrantz Fanon \n\nJohn Beddoe\n\nWilliam E. Cross, Jr. \n\nBailey Jackson\n\nCharles Thomas \n\n\nCross, William E. Jr. \"Nigrescence Theory: Historical and Explanitory Notes.\" \"Journal of Vocational Behavior\", April 23, 1994.\n"}
{"id": "9686913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9686913", "title": "Nigerian Communications Commission", "text": "Nigerian Communications Commission\n\nThe Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) is the independent regulatory authority for the telecommunications industry in Nigeria. The NCC was created under Decree number 75 by the [Federal Military Government of Nigeria] on 24 November 1992. The NCC was charged with the responsibility of regulating the supply of telecommunications services and facilities, promoting competition, and setting performance standards for telephone services in Nigeria. The Decree has been abrogated and replaced with the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003.\n\nThe commission is headed by a board of nine commissioners, composed of the Chairman (a non-executive commissioner), the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, two Executive Commissioners, and five other non-executive commissioners.\n\nThere are 20 departments, one directorate three other administratively constitutive sections which are the Offices of the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive, and the Offices of the two Executive Commissioners. The Departments of New Media and Information Security; Technical Standards and Network Integrity; and Spectrum Administration report to the Executive Commissioner Technical Services. The Departments of Legal and Regulatory Services; Licensing and Authorization; Consumer Affairs; and Compliance Monitoring and Enforcement report to the Executive Commissioner Stakeholder Management. The remaining Departments report to the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer. Among the Departments that report to the EVC/CEO is the Universal Service Provision Fund - established under the Nigerian Communications Act 2003 to facilitate the achievement of national policy goals for universal access and universal service to information and communication technologies (ICTs) in rural, un-served and under-served areas in Nigeria. The Fund is being managed to facilitate the widest possible access to affordable telecommunications services for greater social equity and inclusion for the people of Nigeria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Offices of the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO; and the Offices of the other two Executive Commissioners also have established and functional administrative structures. The International Affairs Unit is part of the Office of the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13929430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13929430", "title": "Nortel payphones", "text": "Nortel payphones\n\nNorthern Telecom (more commonly known as Nortel) manufactured several different models of Payphone over the years. They were most commonly used in Canada, as well as the United States.\n\nNortel has manufactured several types in Canada:\n\n\nNorthern Electric, Nortel's previous name made chrome payphones in the 1950s. The same phone was also made by Western Electric.\n\nNortel Centurion were made in the 1970s-1980s and used coins only. They came in black, brown, blue, or green cases. Initial units used a rotary dial system and later units were touch tone key pad. Coin slot accepted denominations of 5, 10 and 25 cents. Centurions had a coin return button.\n\nCenturion were used by Bell Canada, MTS, Telephone Milot\nand other local phone companies in Canada. Additionally, Centurions were used by companies in the United States such as Embarq, and a number of other independent telephone companies.\n\nThe Millennium line was introduced in the 1990s and allowed the use of coins (5, 10, 25 cents and 1 dollar for Canadian versions) and cards (credit card or phone cards as well as \"smart\" chip cards.) They were equipped with an advanced electronic coin validator, which could detect slugs or coin blockages. These units came with a touch tone key pad only. A display screen allowed the user to view the number dialed and switch between two languages, where the operating company has a choice of any combination of English, French, Spanish and Japanese. The VFD display also allows the operating company to set scrolling messages and ads, with a total of 20 messages possible in total, 10 for on hook and 10 for off hook. \n\nThese units were used by:\n\n\nMillennium phones require a CO line with polarity reversal for CDR (call detail record) purposes, as well as for coin return, hence these phones have no coin return button. \n\nThe rights to Millennium phones were sold to QuorTech when Nortel moved away from manufacturing phone devices, and were subsequently sold to WiMacTel. Quortech has all but disappeared from the public and in March of 2014, WiMacTel announced they were the only operator of Millennium payphones in Canada and the US. \n\nThe phones themselves are quite complex, using a Zilog Z80 processor with a number of peripherals attached. The whole point of the Millennium system was security and advanced monitoring. All Millennium phones connect to a server platform called Millennium Manager, which allows the operating company to control and monitor virtually every aspect of a phone. The phones 'call home' on a regular basis, uploading CDR records if they are full and reporting coinbox status (down to the amount of coins in a given denomination). The coin vault lock has a small micro switch that can detect break ins, which will cause the phone to call into the Millennium Manager with an alarm. The main housing lock also has a similar switch, which if triggered without entering the craft interface beforehand will trigger an alarm as well. \n\nA Mondex version of the payphone was also produced, it has a special larger display with navigation keys. There is also an inmate version of the card only set, as well as a smaller deskset that used only a card reader. The desk set closely resembled a regular Meridian M7310 office phone. These smaller sets were often found in malls and hospitals. \n\nThese phones can sometimes be found on eBay for relatively cheap, though one cannot do much with them without the connection to the Millennium Manager. There are a few active projects which are trying to solve this problem however.\n\n"}
{"id": "4102204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4102204", "title": "Off our backs", "text": "Off our backs\n\noff our backs (often referred to as \"oob)\" was an American radical feminist periodical that ran from 1970 to 2008. It began publishing on February 27, 1970, with a twelve-page tabloid first issue. From 2002 the editors adapted it into a bimonthly journal.\n\n\"off our backs\" was edited and published by a collective of women who practiced consensus decision-making. Marilyn Salzman Webb, Heidi Steffens, Marlene Wicks, Colette Reid, and Norma Lesser formed the original \"off our backs\" collective. The staff later consisted of Carol Anne Douglas, Tacie Dejanikus, Amaya Roberson, Sherri Whatley, Laura Butterbaugh, Farar Elliott, Angie Manzano, Karla Mantilla, Jennie Ruby, Jenn Smith, Alice Henry, and Angie Young.\n\n\"off our backs\" was last published in 2008 due to financial trouble. \n\nArchives of \"off our backs\" are housed at Hornbake Library, University of Maryland\n\n"}
{"id": "25452959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25452959", "title": "Ordos Mongols", "text": "Ordos Mongols\n\nThe Ordos (Mongolian Cyrillic: Ордос) are a Mongol subgroup that live in Uushin district, Inner Mongolia of China. Ordos literally means plural of Ordo.\n\nThe Three Tribes of Uriyangkhaid, Tümed in north Shanxi, Ordos Mongols in Ordos and north of Shensi extended southward beyond the Ming defense zone in the 14-15th centuries. Since 1510, the Ordos were ruled by descendants of Batumongke Dayan Khan.\n\nThe Ordos Mongols believe that they have been responsible for the shrine of Genghis Khan since their inception. However, the modern place where mausoleum of Genghis Khan located is inhabited by the Darkhads because the Ordos Mongols were forced to be resettled outside Ordos grasslands. Traditionally, Ordos territory is divided into 7 banners.\n\nTheir number reached 64,000 in 1950 and a possible current estimate of the Ordos people might be less than 100,000.\n"}
{"id": "19019398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19019398", "title": "Public Archaeology (journal)", "text": "Public Archaeology (journal)\n\nPublic Archaeology is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal established in 2000, edited by Tim Schadla-Hall and published by Maney Publishing. It covers the relationships between practical archaeology, archaeological theory and cultural heritage management models, and the involvement of wider civic, governmental, and community concerns.\n\nThe journal's creation had been initiated and overseen by Peter Ucko after he took over as director of the UCL Institute of Archaeology.\n"}
{"id": "25022902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25022902", "title": "Public opinion on the 2009 Honduran coup d'état", "text": "Public opinion on the 2009 Honduran coup d'état\n\nPublic opinion on the 2009 Honduran coup d'état is divided in Honduras. There are three known opinion polls on the 2009 Honduran constitutional crisis. The polls show polarized Honduras. The first CID-Gallup showed support for President Manuel Zelaya's removal from office because of his actions but not the manner in which it was carried out. Subsequent opinion polls showed higher levels of opposition to the events of the coup, though the opinion of the government it inaugurated was more evenly mixed. According to the latest poll in October, only 48% of Hondurans regard Roberto Micheletti's performance as good or excellent, and 50% as bad or poor. Porfirio Lobo Sosa, an opposition member, led polls before the November elections and subsequently won the elections.\n\nIn a 2008 survey, only one in four Hondurans approved Zelaya - the lowest approval rate of 18 regional leaders. On June 22 \"La Prensa\" counted that people had organized 18 Facebook groups against Manuel Zelaya. Tens of thousands Hondurans had joined the Internet campaigns against Zelaya.\n\nCID-Gallup conducted a poll in 16 of the nation's 18 departments between 30 June and 4 July, but the results were reported initially to the press on 9 July and 10 July, leading to confusion. Honduran newspapers, such as \"El Heraldo\", and some news sources outside Honduras, such as the \"Washington Post\", reported that when asked whether they believed the removal of President Zelaya was justified, 41% agreed, 28% disagreed, and 31% said don't know/won't answer. However, the \"New York Times\", the Associated Press, and others reported, possibly based upon an interview of the President of CID-Gallup, that 46% disagreed with Zelaya's ouster, 41% approved of it, with 13% declining to answer.\n\nA blogger obtained the original data from CID-Gallup and explained the inconsistency. CID-Gallup asked two different questions:\n\nSome press sources reported the results from the first question, and some the results from the second question.\n\nHonduran general election, 2009\n"}
{"id": "26131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26131", "title": "Racial profiling", "text": "Racial profiling\n\nRacial profiling is the act of suspecting or targeting a person of a certain race on the basis of observed or assumed characteristics or behavior of a racial or ethnic group, rather than on individual suspicion. Racial profiling, however, isn't limited only to an individuals race, but can also be based on the individual’s ethnicity, religion, or national origin. More commonly in the United States, racial profiling is referred to regarding its use by law enforcement at the local, state, and federal levels, and its use leading to discrimination against people in the African American, Native American, Asian, Latino, Arab, and Muslim communities of the U.S. In European countries, the term \"ethnic profiling\" is also used instead of racial profiling. Although most prominent in law enforcement, everyday racial profiling refers to the common, everyday attacks on an individuals race, ethnicity, religion or national origin and it is more common than people think. It doesn't just hurt the victims. It has an insidious ripple effect on the rest of society -- in business, health and public safety. Besides the obvious racial comments and actions, those who experience everyday racial profiling can endure serious health consequences and can suffer from high rates of chronic diseases. On a more personal level, those holding racial biases are actually harming themselves, too. When you start feeling anxiety about someone's race, Godsil, director of research for the Perception Institute said, it triggers the amygdala -- the part of the brain that's activated by fear which means higher level of stress on your body. Delinking oneself from racial stereotypes is a good way to be free from that bias and is mentally beneficial as well. These biases are especially harmful as majority of the time, these biases are placed in our minds from an early age through mass media such as verbal slurs, ethnic jokes and acts of discrimination and once ingrained, they are hard to reverse. Since these prejudices and stereotypes are seen at such an early age, they become something of second nature. Racial profiling often stems from what researchers call \"implicit bias\" -- a bias we might not be consciously aware of. \n\nAccording to the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU):\n'Racial profiling' refers to the practice by law enforcement officials of targeting individuals for suspicion of crime based on the individual's race, ethnicity, religion or national origin. Criminal profiling, generally, as practiced by police, is the reliance on a group of characteristics they believe to be associated with crime. Examples of racial profiling are the use of race to determine which drivers to stop for minor traffic violations (commonly referred to as 'driving while black or brown'), or the use of race to determine which pedestrians to search for illegal contraband. Besides such disproportionate searching of African Americans, and members of other minority groups, other examples of racial profiling by law enforcement in the U.S. include the targeting of Hispanic and Latino Americans in the investigation of illegal immigration; and the focus on Middle Eastern and South Asians present in the country in screenings for ties to Islamic terrorism. These suspicions are typically on the basis of racist, and/or derogatory beliefs about the group of target, and assumes the criminal ideologies of one individual from a specific racial group is a trait held by all members of that racial group.\n\nAccording to Minnesota House of Representatives analyst Jim Cleary, \"there appears to be at least two clearly distinguishable definitions of the term 'racial profiling': a narrow definition and a broad definition... Under the narrow definition, racial profiling occurs when a police officer stops and/or searches someone solely on the basis of the person's race or ethnicity... Under the broader definition, racial profiling occurs whenever police routinely use race as a factor that, along with an accumulation of other factors, causes an officer to react with suspicion and take action.\"\n\nA study conducted by Domestic Human Rights Program of Amnesty International USA, found that racial profiling has increased since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and that state laws cannot provide sufficient and consistent protections against racial profiling.\n\nSociologist Robert Staples emphasizes that racial profiling in the U.S. is \"not merely a collection of individual offenses\" but, rather, a systemic phenomenon across American society, dating back to the era of slavery, and, until the 1950s, was, in some instances, \"codified into law\". Enshrinement of racial profiling ideals in United States law can be exemplified by several major periods in U.S. history.\n\nIn 1693, Philadelphia's court officials gave police legal authority to stop and detain any Negro (freed or enslaved) seen wandering about. Starting around the mid 18th century, slave patrols were used to stop slaves at any location in order to ensure they were being lawful. In the mid 19th century, the Black Codes (United States), a set of statutes, laws and rules, were enacted in the South in order to regain control over freed and former slaves and relegate African Americans to a lower social status. Similar discriminatory practices continued through the Jim Crow era.\n\nPrior to U.S. immigration restrictions following the September 11 attacks, Japanese immigrants were rejected U.S. citizenship during World War II, for fear of disloyalty following the attacks on Pearl Harbor. What resulted was the government's preemptive internment of more than 100,000 Japanese immigrants and Japanese American citizens during World War II, as a measure against potential Japanese espionage, constituting a form of racial profiling.\n\nIn the late 1990s racial profiling became politicized, when police and other law enforcement fell under scrutiny for the disproportionate traffic stops of minority motorists. Researchers from the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) provided evidence of widespread racial profiling, one study showed that while blacks only made up 42 percent of New Jersey's driving population they accounted for 79 percent of motorists stopped in the state.\n\n\"Terry v. Ohio\" was the first challenge to racial profiling in the United States in 1968. This case was about African American people who were thought to be stealing. The police officer arrested the three men and searched them and found a gun on two of the three men, and Terry (one of the three men searched) was convicted and sentenced to jail. Terry challenged the arrest on the grounds that it violated the search and seizure clause of the Fourth Amendment, however, in an 8-1 ruling, the Supreme Court decided that the police officer acted in a reasonable manner, and with reasonable suspicion, under the Fourth Amendment. The decision in this case allowed for greater police discretion in identifying suspicious or illegal activities.\n\nIn 1975, \"U.S. v. Brignoni- Ponce\" was decided. Felix Humberto Brignoni-Ponce was traveling in his vehicle and was stopped by border patrol agents because he appeared to be Mexican. The agents questioned Ponce and the other passengers in the car and discovered that the passengers were illegal immigrants, and the border agents subsequently arrested all occupants of the vehicle. The Court determined that the testimonies that led to the arrests in this case were not valid, as they were obtained in the absence of reasonable suspicion and the vehicle was stopped without probable cause, as required under the Fourth Amendment.\n\nIn 1996, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"U.S. v. Armstrong\" that disparity in conviction rates is not unconstitutional in the absence of data that \"similarly situated\" defendants of another race were disparately prosecuted, overturning a 9th Circuit Court ruling that was based on \"the presumption that people of all races commit all types of crimes – not with the premise that any type of crime is the exclusive province of any particular racial or ethnic group\", waving away challenges based on the Fourth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution which guarantees the right to be safe from search and seizure without a warrant (which is to be issued \"upon probable cause\"), and the Fourteenth Amendment which requires that all citizens be treated equally under the law. To date there have been no known cases in which any U.S. court dismissed a criminal prosecution because the defendant was targeted based on race. This Supreme Court decision doesn't prohibit government agencies from enacting policies prohibiting it in the field by agents and employees.\n\nThe Court also decided the case of \"Whren v. United States\" in 1996. Whren was arrested on felony drug charges after officers observed his truck sitting at an intersection for a long period of time before it failed to use its turn signal to drive away, and the police officers stopped his vehicle for the traffic violation. Upon approaching the vehicle the officers observed that Whren was in possession of crack-cocaine. The Court determined the officers did not violate the Fourth Amendment through an unreasonable search and seizure and that the officers were permitted to stop the vehicle after it committed a traffic violation and the subsequent search of the vehicle was permitted regardless of the pretext of the officers.\n\nIn June 2001 the Bureau of Justice Assistance, a component of the Office of Justice Programs of the United States Department of Justice, awarded a Northeastern research team a grant to create the web-based Racial Profiling Data Collection Resource Center. It now maintains a website designed to be a central clearinghouse for police agencies, legislators, community leaders, social scientists, legal researchers, and journalists to access information about current data collection efforts, legislation and model policies, police-community initiatives, and methodological tools that can be used to collect and analyze racial profiling data. The website contains information on the background of data collection, jurisdictions currently collecting data, community groups, legislation that is pending and enacted in states across the country, and has information on planning and implementing data collection procedures, training officers in to implement these systems, and analyzing and reporting the data and results.\n\nIn April 2010, Arizona enacted SB 1070, a law that would require law-enforcement officers to verify the citizenship of individuals they stop if they have reasonable suspicion that they may be in the United States illegally. The law states that \"Any person who is arrested shall have the person's immigration status determined before the person is released\". United States federal law requires that all immigrants who remain in the United States for more than 30 days register with the U.S. government. In addition, all immigrants age 18 and over are required to have their registration documents with them at all times. Arizona made it a misdemeanor crime for an illegal immigrant 14 years of age and older to be found without carrying these documents at all times.\n\nAccording to SB 1070, law-enforcement officials may not consider \"race, color, or national origin\" in the enforcement of the law, except under the circumstances allowed under the United States and Arizona constitutions. In June 2012, the majority of SB 1070 was struck down by the United States Supreme Court, while the provision allowing for an immigration check on detained persons was upheld.\n\nSome states contain \"stop and identify\" laws that allow officers to detain suspected persons and ask for identification, and if there is failure to provide identification punitive measures can be taken by the officer. There are currently 24 states that have \"stop and identify\" statues, however, the criminal punishments and need to produce identification vary from state-to-state. Utah HB 497 requires residents to carry relevant identification at all times in order to prove resident status or immigration status; even so, police may still dismiss provided documents under suspicion of falsification and arrest or detain suspects.\n\nIn early 2001, a bill was introduced to Congress named \"End Racial Profiling Act of 2001\" but lost support in the wake of the September 11th attacks. The bill was re-introduced to Congress in 2010 but also failed to gain the support it needed. Several U.S. states now have reporting requirements for incidents of racial profiling. Texas, for example requires all agencies to provide annual reports to its Law Enforcement Commission. The requirement began on September 1, 2001, when the State of Texas passed a law to require all law enforcement agencies in the state to begin collecting certain data in connection to traffic or pedestrian stops beginning on January 1, 2002. Based on that data, the law mandated law enforcement agencies to submit a report to the law enforcement agencies' governing body beginning March 1, 2003 and each year thereafter no later than March 1. The law is found in the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure beginning with Article 2.131.\nAdditionally, on January 1, 2011, all law enforcement agencies began submitting annual reports to the Texas State Law Enforcement Officers Standards and Education Commission. The submitted reports can be accessed on the Commission's website for public review.\n\nIn June 2003 the Department of Justice issued its \"Guidance Regarding the Use of Race by Federal Law Enforcement Agencies\" forbidding racial profiling by federal law enforcement officials.\n\nSupporters defend the practice of racial profiling by emphasizing the crime control model. They claim that the practice is both efficient and ideal due to utilizing the laws of probability in order to determine one's criminality. This system focuses on controlling crime with swift judgment, bestowing full discretion on police to handle what they perceive as a threat to society.\nThe use and support of racial profiling has surged in recent years, namely in North America due to heightened tension and awareness following the events of 9/11. As a result, the issue of profiling has created a debate that centers on the values of equality and self-defense. Supporters uphold the stance that sacrifices must be made in order to maintain national safety, even if it warrants differential treatment. According to a 2011 survey by Rasmussen Reports, a majority of Americans support profiling as necessary \"in today's society\".\n\nIn December 2010, Fernando Mateo, then president of the New York State Federation of Taxi Drivers, made pro-racial profiling remarks in the case of gun-shot taxi-cab driver: \"You know sometimes it's good that we are racially profiled because the God's-honest truth is that 99 percent of the people that are robbing, stealing, killing these drivers are blacks and Hispanics.\" \"Clearly everyone knows I'm not racist. I'm Hispanic and my father is black. ... My father is blacker than Al Sharpton.\" When confronted with accusations of racial profiling the police claim that they do not participate in it.\nThey emphasize that numerous factors (such as race, interactions, and dress) are used to determine if a person is involved in criminal activity and that race is not a sole factor in the decision to detain or question an individual. They further claim that the job of policing is far more imperative than to concerns of minorities or interest groups claiming unfair targeting.\n\nProponents of racial profiling believe that inner city residents of Hispanic communities are subjected to racial profiling because of theories such as the \"gang suppression model\". The \"gang suppression model\" is believed by some to be the basis for increased policing, the theory being based on the idea that Latinos are violent and out of control and are therefore \"in need of suppression\". Based on research, the criminalization of a people can lead to abuses of power on behalf of law enforcement.\n\nCritics of racial profiling argue that the individual rights of a suspect are violated if race is used as a factor in that suspicion. Notably, civil liberties organizations such as the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) have labeled racial profiling as a form of discrimination, stating, \"Discrimination based on race, ethnicity, religion, nationality or on any other particular identity undermines the basic human rights and freedoms to which every person is entitled.\"\n\nConversely, those in opposition of the police tactic employ the teachings of the due process model, arguing that minorities are not granted equal rights and are thus subject to unjust treatment. In addition, some argue that the singling out of individuals based on their ethnicity comes in violation of the Rule of Law, having voided all instance of neutrality. \nThose in opposition also make note of the role that the news media plays within the conflict. The general public internalizes much of its knowledge from the media, relying on sources to convey information of events that transpire outside of their immediate domain. In conjunction with this power, media outlets are aware of the public's intrigue with controversy and have been known to construct headlines that entail moral panic and negativity.\n\nIn the case of racial profiling drivers, the ethnic backgrounds of drivers stopped by traffic police in the U.S. suggests the possibility of biased policing against non-white drivers. Black drivers felt that they were being pulled over by law enforcement officers simply because of their skin color. However, some argue in favor of the \"veil of darkness\" hypothesis, which states that police are less likely to know the race of a driver before they make a stop at nighttime as opposed to in the daytime. Referring to the veil of darkness hypothesis, it is suggested that if the race distribution of drivers stopped during the day differs from that of drivers stopped at night, officers are engaging in racial profiling. For example, in one study done by Jeffrey Grogger and Greg Ridgeway, the veil of darkness hypothesis was used to determine whether or not racial profiling in traffic stops occurs in Oakland, California. The conductors found that there was little evidence of racial profiling in traffic stops made in Oakland.\n\nResearch through random sampling in the South Tucson, Arizona area has established that immigration authorities sometimes target the residents of barrios with the use of possibly discriminatory policing based on racial profiling. Author Mary Romero writes that immigration raids are often carried out at places of gathering and cultural expression such as grocery stores based on the fluency of language of a person (e.g. being bilingual especially in Spanish) and skin color of a person. She goes on to state that immigration raids are often conducted with a disregard for due process, and that these raids lead people from these communities to distrust law enforcement.\n\nIn a recent journal comparing the 1990s to the present, studies have established that when the community criticized police for targeting the black community during traffic stops it received more media coverage and toned down racial profiling. However, whenever there was a significant lack of media coverage or concern with racial profiling, the amount of arrests and traffic stops for the African-American community would significantly rise again.\n\nBetween 2003 and 2014, the New York City Police Department (NYPD) operated the \"Demographics Unit\" (later renamed \"Zone Assessment Unit\") which mapped communities of 28 \"ancestries of interest\", including those of Muslims, Arabs, and Albanians. Plain-clothed detectives were sent to public places such as coffee shops, mosques and parks to observe and record the public sentiment, as well as map locations where potential terrorists could \"blend in\". In its 11 years of operation, however, the unit did not generate any information leading to a criminal charge. A series of publications by the Associated Press during 2011–12 gave rise to public pressure to close the unit, and it was finally disbanded in 2014.\n\nRacial profiling not only occurs on the streets but also in many institutions. Much like the book \"Famous all over Town\" where the author Danny Santiago mentions this type of racism throughout the novel. According to Jesper Ryberg's 2011 article \"Racial Profiling And Criminal Justice\" in the \"Journal of Ethics\", \"It is argued that, given the assumption that criminals are currently being punished too severely in Western countries, the apprehension of more criminals may not constitute a reason in favor of racial profiling at all.\" It has been stated in a scholarly journal that for over 30 years the use of racial and/or demographic profiling by local authorities and higher level law enforcement's continue to proceed. NYPD Street cops use racial profiling more often, due to the widespread patterns. They first frisk them to check whether they have enough evidence to be even arrested for the relevant crime. \"As a practical matter, the stops display a measurable racial disparity: black and Hispanic people generally represent more than 85 percent of those stopped by the police, though their combined populations make up a small share of the city's racial composition.\" (Baker)\n\nThe NYPD has been subject to much criticism for its \"stop and frisk\" tactics. According to statistics on the NYPD's stop and frisk policies, collected by the Center for Constitutional Rights, 51% of the people stopped by the police were Black, 33% were Latino, and 9% were White, and only 2% of all stops resulted in contraband findings. Starting in 2013, use of racial profiling by the NYPD was drastically curtailed, as New York Mayor Bill de Blasio was campaigning for the office, and this policy has continued into his term.\n\nThe September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon have led to targeting of some Muslims and Middle Easterners as potential terrorists and, according to some, are targeted by the national government through preventive measures similar to those practiced by local law enforcement. The national government has passed laws, such as the Patriot Act of 2001, to increase surveillance of potential threats to national threat as a result of the events that occurred during 9/11. It is argued that the passage of these laws and provisions by the national government leads to justification of preventative methods, such as racial profiling, that has been controversial for racial profiling and leads to further minority distrust in the national government. One of the techniques used by the FBI to target Muslims was monitoring 100 mosques and business in Washington DC and threatened to deport Muslims who did not agree to serve as informers. The FBI denied to be taking part in blanket profiling and argued that they were trying to build trust within the Muslim community.\n\nOn September 14, 2001 three days after the September 11th attacks, an Indian American motorist and three family members were pulled over and ticketed by a Maryland state trooper because their car had broken taillights. The trooper interrogated the family, questioned them about their nationality, and asked for proof of citizenship. When the motorist said that their passports were at home, the officer allegedly stated, \"You are lying. You are Arabs involved in terrorism.\" He ordered them out of the car, had them put their hands on the hood, and searched the car. When he discovered a knife in a toolbox, the officer handcuffed the driver and later reported that the driver \"wore and carried a butcher knife, a dangerous, deadly weapon, concealed upon and about his person.\" The driver was detained for several hours but eventually released.\n\nIn December 2001, an American citizen of Middle Eastern descent named Assem Bayaa cleared all the security checks at Los Angeles airport and attempted to board a flight to New York City. Upon boarding, he was told that he made the passengers uncomfortable by being on board the plane and was asked to leave. Once off the plane, he wasn't searched or questioned any further and the only consolation he was given was a boarding pass for the next flight. He filed a lawsuit on the basis of discrimination against United Airlines. United Airlines filed a counter motion which was dismissed by a district judge on October 11, 2002. In June 2005, the ACLU announced a settlement between Bayaa and United Airlines who still disputed Bayaa's allegations, but noted that the settlement \"was in the best interest of all\".\n\nThe events of 9/11 also led to restrictions in immigration laws. The U.S. government imposed stricter immigration quotas to maintain national security at their national borders. In 2002, men over sixteen years old who entered the country from twenty-five Middle Eastern countries and North Korea were required to be photographed, fingerprinted, interviewed and have their financial information copied, and had to register again before leaving the country under the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System. No charges of terrorism resulted from the program, and it was deactivated in April 2011.\n\nIn 2006, 18 young men from the GTA were charged with conspiring to carry out a series of bombings and beheadings, resulting in a swell of media coverage. Two media narratives stood out with the former claiming that a \"militant subculture\" was forming within the Islamic community while the latter attributed the case to a bunch of deviant youth who had too much testosterone brewing. Eventually, it was shown that government officials had been tracking the group for some time, having supplied the youth with the necessary compounds to create explosives, prompting critics to discern whether the whole situation was a set-up. Throughout the case, many factors were put into question but none more than the Muslim community who faced much scrutiny and vitriol due to the build-up of negative headlines stemming from the media.\n\nStatistical data demonstrates that although policing practices and policies vary widely across the United States, a large disparity between racial groups in regards to traffic stops and searches exists. However, whether this is due to racial profiling or the fact that different races are involved in crime in different rates, is still highly debated. Based on academic search, various studies have been conducted regarding the existence of racial profiling in traffic and pedestrian stops. For motor vehicle searches, academic research showed that the probability of a successful search is very similar across races. This suggests that police officers are not motivated by racial preferences but by the desire to maximize the probability of a successful search. Similar evidence has been found for pedestrian stops, with identical ratios of stops to arrests for different races. \nThe studies have been published in various Academic Journals aimed towards Academic professionals as well practitioners such as law enforcers. Some of these journals include, Police Quarterly and the Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice, so that both sides of the argument are present and evaluated. Of those gathered the most noted study refuting racial profiling was the conducted using the veil of darkness hypothesis stating that it will be difficult, if not impossible, for officers to discern race in the twilight hours. The results of this study concluded that the ratio of different races stopped by New York cops is about the same for all races tested.\n\nSome of the most referenced organizations, who offer evidence on the existence of racial profiling, are The American Civil Liberties Union, which conducted studies in various major U.S. cities, and RAND. In a study conducted in Cincinnati, Ohio, it was concluded that \"Blacks were between three and five times more likely to (a) be asked if they were carrying drugs or weapons, (b) be asked to leave the vehicle, (c) be searched, (d) have a passenger searched, and (e) have the vehicle physically searched in a study conducted. This conclusion was based on the analysis of 313, randomly selected, traffic stop police tapes gathered from 2003 to 2004.\"\n\nA 2001 study analyzing data from the Richmond, Virginia Police Department found that African Americans were disproportionately stopped compared to their proportion in the general population, but that they were not searched more often than Whites. The same study found that Whites were more likely than African Americans to be \"the subjects of consent searches,\" and that Whites were more likely to be ticked or arrested than minorities, while minorities were more likely to be warned. A 2002 study found that African Americans were more likely to be watched and stopped by police when driving through white areas, despite the fact that African Americans' \"hit rates\" were lower in such areas. A 2004 study analyzing traffic stop data from suburban police department found that although minorities were disproportionately stopped, there is only a \"very weak\" relationship between race and police decisions to stop. Another 2004 study found that young black and Hispanic men were more likely to be issued citations, arrested, and to have force used against them by police, even after controlling for numerous other factors.\n\nA 2005 study found that the percent of speeding drivers who were black (as identified by other drivers) on the New Jersey Turnpike was very similar to the percent of people pulled over for speeding who were black. A 2004 study looking at motor vehicle searches in Missouri found that unbiased policing did not explain the racial disparity in such searches. In contrast, a 2006 study examining data from Kansas concluded that its results were \"consistent with the notion that police in Wichita choose their search strategies to maximize successful searches,\" and a 2009 study found that racial disparities in people being searched by the Washington state patrol was \"likely not the result of intentional or purposeful discrimination.\" Another 2009 study found that police in Boston were more likely to search if their race was different from that of the suspect, in contrast to what would be expected if discrimination was occurring (which would be that police search decisions are independent of officer race).\n\nA 2010 study found that black drivers were more likely to be searched at traffic stops in white neighborhoods, whereas white drivers were more likely to be searched by white officers at stops in black neighborhoods. A 2013 study found that police were more likely to issue warnings and citations, but not arrests, to young black men. A 2014 study analyzing data from Rhode Island found that blacks were more likely than whites to be frisked and, to a lesser extent, searched while driving; the study concluded that \"Biased policing is largely the product of implicit stereotypes that are activated in contexts in which Black drivers appear out of place and in police actions that require quick decisions providing little time to monitor cognitions.\"\n\nAs a response to the shooting of Michael Brown in Ferguson on August 9, 2014, the Department of Justice recruited in September a team of criminal justice researchers to study racial bias in law enforcement in five cities and to subsequently devise strategic recommendations. In its March 2015 report on the Ferguson Police Department, the Department of Justice found that although only 67% of the population of Ferguson was black, 85% of people pulled over by police in Ferguson were black, as were 93 percent of those arrested and 90 percent of those given citations by the police.\n\nShopping experiences is one of the many examples where everyday racial profiling occurs. Discrimination alters the experience of shopping, arguably raising the costs and reducing the rewards derived from consumption. When a store’s sales staff is hesitant to serve black shoppers or suspects that they are prospective shoplifters, shopping no longer becomes a form of leisure. It is not only based on the costumers skin color, but by simply pre-judging based on the persons appearance is still a way of contributing to this issue. Racial profiling in retail has become so prominent, that over the years, researchers developed the term \"shopping while black\" which describes the experience of being denied service or given poor service because one is black. Usually, it involves a black person being followed around or closely monitored by a clerk or guard who suspects he or she may steal, but it can also involve being denied store access, being refused service, use of ethnic slurs, being searched, being asked for extra forms of identification, having purchases limited, being required to have a higher credit limit than other customers, being charged a higher price, or being asked more rigorous questions on applications. These negative shopping experiences contribute to the decline of shopping in stores as people prefer to shop online to avoid these sort of interactions that are deemed degrading, embarrassing, and highly offensive. Many research experiments have been conducted to measure outsiders response to the treatment of people. Findings have been both positive and negative with some having the courage to speak up about the issue and defend the victim, while others simply stand by and watch while this discrimination occurs.\n\nIn a particular study, Higgins, Gabbidon, and Vito studied the relationship between public opinion on racial profiling in conjunction with their viewpoint of race relations and their perceived awareness of safety. It was found that race relations had a statistical correlation with the legitimacy of racial profiling. Specifically, results showed that those who believed that racial profiling was widespread and that racial tension would never be fixed were more likely to be opposed to racial profiling than those who did not believe racial profiling was as widespread or that racial tensions would be fixed eventually. On the other hand, in reference to perception of safety, the research concluded that one's perception of safety had no influence on public opinion of racial profiling. Higgins, Gabbidon, and Vito acknowledge that this may not have been the case immediately after 9/11, but state that any support of racial profiling based on safety was \"short-lived\".\n\nOne particular study focused on individuals who self-identified as religiously affiliated and their relationship with racial profiling. By using national survey data from October 2001, researcher Phillip H. Kim studied which individuals were more likely to support racial profiling. The research concludes that individuals that identified themselves as either Jewish, Catholic, or Protestant showed higher statistical numbers that illustrated support for racial profiling in comparison to individuals who identified themselves as non-religious.\n\nAfter the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States, according to Johnson, a new debate concerning the appropriateness of racial profiling in the context of terrorism took place. According to Johnson, prior to the September 11, 2001 attacks the debate on racial profiling within the public targeted primarily African-Americans and Latino Americans with enforced policing on crime and drugs. The attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon changed the focus of the racial profiling debate from street crime to terrorism. According to a June 4–5, 2002 FOX News/Opinion Dynamics Poll, 54% of Americans approved of using \"racial profiling to screen Arab male airline passengers.\" A 2002 survey by Public Agenda tracked the attitudes toward the racial profiling of Blacks and people of Middle Eastern descent. In this survey, 52% of Americans said there was \"no excuse\" for law enforcement to look at African Americans with greater suspicion and scrutiny because they believe they are more likely to commit crimes, but only 21% said there was \"no excuse\" for extra scrutiny of Middle Eastern people.\n\nHowever, using data from an internet survey based experiment performed in 2006 on a random sample of 574 adult university students, a study was conducted that examined public approval for the use of racial profiling to prevent crime and terrorism. It was found that approximately one third of students approved the use of racial profiling in general. Furthermore, it was found that students were equally likely to approve of the use of racial profiling to prevent crime as to prevent terrorism-33% and 35.8% respectively. The survey also asked respondents whether they would approve of racial profiling across different investigative contexts. \n\nThe data showed that 23.8% of people approved of law enforcement using racial profiling as a means to stop and question someone in a terrorism context while 29.9% of people approved of racial profiling in a crime context for the same situation. It was found that 25.3% of people approved of law enforcement using racial profiling as a means to search someone's bags or packages in a terrorism context while 33.5% of people approved of racial profiling in a crime context for the same situation. It was also found that 16.3% of people approved of law enforcement wire tapping a person's phone based upon racial profiling in the context of terrorism while 21.4% of people approved of racial profiling in a crime context for the same situation. It was also found that 14.6% of people approved of law enforcement searching someone's home based upon racial profiling in a terrorism context while 18.2% of people approved of racial profiling in a crime context for the same situation.\n\nThe study also found that white students were more likely to approve of racial profiling to prevent terrorism than nonwhite students. However, it was found that white students and nonwhite students held the same views about racial profiling in the context of crime. It was also found that foreign born students were less likely to approve of racial profiling to prevent terrorism than non-foreign born students while both groups shared similar views on racial profiling in the context of crime.\n\nAccusations of racial profiling of visible minorities who accuse police of targeting them due to their ethnic background is a growing concern in Canada. In 2005, the Kingston Police released the first study ever in Canada which pertains to racial profiling. The study focused on the city of Kingston, Ontario, a small city where most of the inhabitants are white. The study showed that black skinned people were 3.7 times more likely to be pulled over by police than white skinned people, while Asian people were less likely to be pulled over than whites or blacks. Several police organizations condemned this study and suggested more studies like this would make them hesitant to pull over visible minorities.\n\nCanadian Aboriginals are more likely to be charged with crimes, particularly on reserves. The Canadian crime victimization survey does not collect data on the ethnic origin of perpetrators, so comparisons between incidence of victimizations and incidence of charging are impossible. Although aboriginal persons make up 3.6% of Canada's population, they account for 20% of Canada's prison population. This may show how racial profiling increases effectiveness of police, or be a result of racial profiling, as they are watched more intensely than others.\n\nIn February 2010, an investigation of the \"Toronto Star\" daily newspaper found that black people across Toronto were three times more likely to be stopped and documented by police than white people. To a lesser extent, the same seemed true for people described by police as having \"brown\" skin (South Asians, Arabs and Latinos) . This was the result of an analysis of 1.7 million contact cards filled out by Toronto Police officers in the period 2003–2008.\n\nThe Ontario Human Rights Commission states that \"police services have acknowledged that racial profiling does occur and have taken [and are taking] measures to address [the issue], including upgrading training for officers, identifying officers at risk of engaging in racial profiling, and improving community relations\" (Griffiths, 2008, p. 311). Ottawa Police addressed this issue and planned on implementing a new policy regarding officer racially profiling persons, \"the policy explicitly forbids officers from investigating or detaining anyone based on their race and will force officers to go through training on racial profiling\" (CTV News, 2011). This policy was implemented after the 2008 incident where an African-Canadian woman was strip searched by members of the Ottawa police. There is a video showing the strip search where one witnesses the black woman being held to the ground and the having her bra and shirt cut ripped/cut off by a member of the Ottawa Police Force which was released to the viewing of the public in 2010 (CTV News, 2011).\n\nAs of February 2012, there has been a first court ruling concerning racial profiling in German police policy. It had at first been declared legal for police to make skin color and \"non-German ethnic origin\" criteria for the selection of persons who will be asked for identification in spot-checks for illegal immigrants. However, in subsequence to the ruling it was decided legal for a subject of such a spot-check to compare such policy to that of the SS in public. A higher court later declared the earlier decision to be void and the racial profiling to have been unlawful and in violation of anti-discrimination provisions in Art. 3 Basic Law and the General Equal Treatment Act of 2006.\n\nThe civil rights organisation Büro zur Umsetzung von Gleichbehandlung (Office for the Implementation of Equal Treatment) makes a distinction between criminal profiling, which is legitimate in Germany, and ethnic profiling, which is not.\n\nAccording to a report conducted by the Interior ministry in Germany, there has been a recent increase in hate crimes and violence against migrant groups in Germany. The reports concluded that there were more than 10 attacks per day against migrants in Germany in 2016. This report from Germany garnered the attention of the United Nations, which alleged that people of African descent face widespread discrimination in Germany.\n\nThe Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights released a statement in 2016 after a visit to Germany which stated that \"although the [German] constitution guarantees equality, bans racial discrimination and enshrines the inviolability of human dignity, these principles are not put into practice.\" The report by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights further asserts that people of African descent, in particular, face high rates of racial profiling from law enforcement officials and high levels of discrimination and defines the problem of racial profiling and discrimination as \"endemic\".\n\nIn 1972, terrorists from the Japanese Red Army launched an attack that led to the deaths of at least 24 people at Ben Gurion Airport. Since then, security at the airport has relied on a number of fundamentals, including a heavy focus on what Raphael Ron, former director of security at Ben Gurion, terms the \"human factor\", which he generalized as \"the inescapable fact that terrorist attacks are carried out by people who can be found and stopped by an effective security methodology.\" As part of its focus on this so-called \"human factor,\" Israeli security officers interrogate travelers using racial profiling, singling out those who appear to be Arab based on name or physical appearance. Additionally, all passengers, including those who do not appear to be of Arab descent, are questioned as to why they are traveling to Israel, followed by several general questions about the trip in order to search for inconsistencies. Although numerous civil rights groups have demanded an end to the profiling, the Israeli government maintains that it is both effective and unavoidable. According to Ariel Merari, an Israeli terrorism expert, \"it would be foolish not to use profiling when everyone knows that most terrorists come from certain ethnic groups. They are likely to be Muslim and young, and the potential threat justifies inconveniencing a certain ethnic group.\"\n\nThe General Law on Population (Reglamento de la Ley General de Poblacion) of 2000 in Mexico has been cited as being used to racially profile and abuse immigrants to Mexico. Mexican law makes illegal immigration punishible by law and allows law officials great discretion in identifying and questioning illegal immigrants. Mexico has been criticized for its immigration policy. Chris Hawley of \"USA Today\" stated that \"Mexico has a law that is no different from Arizona's\", referring to legislation which gives local police forces the power to check documents of people suspected of being in the country illegally. Immigration and human rights activists have also noted that Mexican authorities frequently engage in racial profiling, harassment, and shakedowns against migrants from Central America.\n\nRacial profiling by police forces in Spain is a common practice. A study by the University of Valencia, found that people of non-white aspect are up to ten times more likely to be stopped by the police on the street. Amnesty International accused Spanish authorities of using racial and ethnic profiling, with police singling out people who do not look Caucasian in the street and public places.\n\nIn 2011, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) urged the Spanish government to take \"effective measures\" to ethnic profiling, including the modification of existing laws and regulations which permit its practice. In 2013, the UN Special Rapporteur, Mutuma Ruteere, described the practice of ethnic profiling by Spanish law enforcement officers \"a persisting and pervasive problem\". In 2014, the Spanish government approved a law which prohibited racial profiling by police forces. However, several NGO's claim identity checks which are carried out on grounds of skin color and ethnicity are still widely practiced despite the ban.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57785214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57785214", "title": "Refutational preemption", "text": "Refutational preemption\n\nIn inoculation theory, refutational preemption consists of “specific content that receivers can employ to strengthen attitudes against subsequent change.” Drawing on McGuire & Papageorgis, Pfau, et al. define the refutational preemption, or pretreatment, step of the inoculation process: \"The theory posits that refutational pretreatments, which raise the specter of content potentially damaging to the receiver’s attitude while simultaneously providing direct refutation of that content in the presence of a supportive environment, threaten the individual. This triggers the motivation to bolster arguments supporting the receiver’s attitudes, thus conferring resistance\".\n\nInstead of providing the receiver with additional supporting evidence why their held beliefs are true, the receiver is provided counterarguments they may encounter in the future that might challenge their held belief. The effectiveness of this inoculation falls off as the level of effort required by the receiver to defend the belief increases.\n\n"}
{"id": "42121059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42121059", "title": "Sergio De La Pava", "text": "Sergio De La Pava\n\nSergio De La Pava (born 1970/71) is an American novelist and lawyer. He is best known for his novel \"A Naked Singularity\".\n\nSergio De La Pava was born and raised in New Jersey, to parents who immigrated from Colombia. He attended Brooklyn Law School, where he met his wife. They live in New Jersey with their two children.\n\nHe works as a public defender in Manhattan, where he handles 70 to 80 cases at a time. He says of that work, \"The stakes are a lot higher in that world than whether or not my book gets attention. On a given day, I have someone who really needs my help on a serious matter.\"\n\nIn 2008, De La Pava self-published his first novel, \"A Naked Singularity\" through XLibris. In October 2010, literary site The Quarterly Conversation ran a review by Scott Bryan Wilson that called the book \"one of the best and most original novels of the decade\" and \"a towering, impressive work.\" That review caught the eye of staff at The University of Chicago Press, who signed the book up and published it in paperback in April 2012. The book was named one of the ten best works of fiction of 2012 by \"The Wall Street Journal\". In the Chicago Tribune, Julia Keller wrote, \"\"A Naked Singularity\" is not about physics. It's about the American criminal justice system in a large and chaotic city, a place slowly crushed by hopelessness in the same way that an ancient star is gradually crushed by gravity. . . . It is about a city that teeters on the edge of total collapse and complete disaster, but that has the capacity to right itself (whew!) at the last possible second.\" \"A Naked Singularity\" went on to win the PEN/Robert W. Bingham Prize from PEN as the best debut novel of that year. On February 10, 2014, it was named one of eight books on the shortlist for the inaugural Folio Prize for the best book published in the United Kingdom in 2013.\n\nIn April 2011, De La Pava self-published his second novel, \"Personae\". The University of Chicago Press published a new paperback edition of that book in September 2013. In the \"Wall Street Journal\", Sam Sacks wrote, \"[I]n this willfully cryptic book, Mr. De La Pava's sense of moral urgency is ever-present. In only his early 40s, he is already a writer of mercurial brilliance, and even his strangest detours are worth following\", and \"Bookforum\" called it \" the most galvanizing meditation on the possibilities and ramifications of artistic process that I have read in recent memory.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6078350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6078350", "title": "Sex on premises venue", "text": "Sex on premises venue\n\nSex on Premises Venue (SOPV) is the term used primarily in British and Australian medical literature for the various commercial venues expressly for engaging in public sex, as opposed to spaces such as parks which may be used for sexual behavior but are intended for general public use.\n\nA similar term, \"on-premises club\", is used by heterosexual swingers to describe a sex club in which non-commercial sexual activity takes place between clients or members.\n\nWhile the term is primarily used with respect to men who have sex with men (MSM), at least one piece of legislation (the \"Sex Work Act\" in Victoria, Australia) uses \"sex on premises venue\" to mean \"any venue where a person is required to pay an admission fee or charge to enter the venue for the purpose of engaging in sexual activities with another person who has also entered the venue on the same terms and who did not receive any form of payment or reward, whether directly or indirectly, for engaging in sexual activities\". This wording, while gender-neutral, would explicitly exclude brothels.\n\nMen who have sex with men (MSM) SOPV'ss include gay bathhouses, \"backrooms\", and \"club\" style venues that have no spa or sauna. Most gay bathhouses, bookstores, and bars in the United States do not openly advertise their actual sex-on-premises purpose or activity, as SOPVs elsewhere can.\n\n\"Backrooms\" consisting of small cubicles with expensive-to-view video machines are usually attached to an adult bookstore. Sometimes there are glory holes between the cubicles. The cubicles are also referred to as \"private viewing rooms\" or \"cruise lounges\". \"Backrooms\" of pubs or bars are usually darkened rooms with or without continuous (and free) pornographic films, but without any dividers or privacy, encouraging group sex.\n\nClub style SOPVs are an entire venue and often consist of small cubicles, sometimes with no bed or mattress, unlike gay bathhouses which usually have some kind of comfort amenities in individual rooms.\n\nSome bathhouses sell alcohol; pubs and bars sell alcohol but are prohibited from marketing themselves as SOPVs. Sometimes special events are held at pubs or bars that include sexual activity without causing the venue to be classified as an SOPV.\n\nSOPVs are recognized by some city planners as part of the management strategy for sexually transmitted disease education and part of catering for a city's cultural diversity and tourist industry.\n\nBookstore-backroom SOPVs may be free to enter, costing only for the film or video, or may have an admission charge.\n\nClub style SOPVs may have regular themes such as underwear, boots only, fisting or piss nights.\n\n"}
{"id": "661052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=661052", "title": "Stan Kenton", "text": "Stan Kenton\n\nStanley Newcomb Kenton (December 15, 1911 – August 25, 1979) was an American popular music and jazz artist. As a pianist, composer, arranger and band leader he led an innovative and influential jazz orchestra for almost four decades. Though Kenton had several pop hits from the early 1940s into the 1960s, his music was always forward looking. Kenton was also a pioneer in the field of jazz education, creating the Stan Kenton Jazz Camp in 1959 at Indiana University.\n\nStan Kenton was born on December 15, 1911, in Wichita, Kansas; he had two sisters (Beulah and Erma Mae) born three and eight years after him. His parents, Floyd and Stella Kenton, had moved the family back to Colorado, then, finally in 1924 to the Greater Los Angeles Area, settling in suburban Bell, California.\n\nKenton attended Bell High School; his high-school yearbook picture has the prophetic notation \"Old Man Jazz\". Kenton started learning piano as a teen from a local pianist and organist. When he was around 15 and in high school, pianist and arranger Ralph Yaw introduced him to the music of Louis Armstong and Earl Hines. He graduated from high school in 1930.\n\nBy the age of 16, Kenton was already playing a regular solo piano gig at a local hamburger eatery for 50 cents a night plus tips; during that time he had his own performing group named \"The Bell-Tones\". His first arrangement was written during this time for a local eight-piece band that played in nearby Long Beach.\n\nIn April 1936 Gus Arnheim was reorganizing his band into the style of Benny Goodman's groups and Kenton was to take the piano chair. This is where Kenton would make his first recordings when Arnheim made 14 sides for the Brunswick label in summer of 1937. Once he departed from Gus Arnheim's group, Kenton went back to study with private teachers on both the piano and in composition. In 1938 Kenton would join Vido Musso in a short-lived band but a very educational experience for him.\n\nFrom the core of this group come the line up of the first Stan Kenton groups of the 1940s. Kenton would also go on to working with the NBC House Band and in various Hollywood studios and clubs. Producer George Avakian took notice of Kenton during this time while he worked as the pianist and Assistant Musical Director at the Earl Carroll Theatre Restaurant in Hollywood. Kenton started to get the idea of running his own band from this experience; he created a rehearsal band of his own which eventually become his group in the 1940s.\n\nIn June 1941, Kenton formed his first orchestra. Kenton worked in the early days with his own groups as much more of an arranger than a featured pianist. Although there were no \"name\" musicians in his first band (with the possible exception of bassist Howard Rumsey and trumpeter Chico Alvarez), Kenton spent the summer of 1941 playing regularly before an audience at the Rendezvous Ballroom in Balboa Beach, CA. Influenced by Benny Carter and Jimmie Lunceford, the Stan Kenton Orchestra struggled for a time after its initial success. Its Decca recordings were not big sellers and a stint as Bob Hope's backup radio band during the 1943–44 season was an unhappy experience; Les Brown permanently took Kenton's place.\nKenton's first appearance in New York was in February 1942 at the Roseland Ballroom, with the marquee featuring an endorsement by Fred Astaire. By late 1943, with a contract with the newly formed Capitol Records, a popular record in \"Eager Beaver\", and growing recognition, the Stan Kenton Orchestra was gradually catching on; it developed into one of the best-known West Coast ensembles of the 1940s. Its soloists during the war years included Art Pepper, briefly Stan Getz, altoist Boots Mussulli, and singer Anita O'Day. By 1945, the band had evolved. The songwriter Joe Greene provided the lyrics for hit songs like \"And Her Tears Flowed Like Wine\" and \"Don't Let the Sun Catch You Cryin'\". Pete Rugolo became the chief arranger (extending Kenton's ideas), Bob Cooper and Vido Musso offered very different tenor styles, and June Christy was Kenton's new singer; her hits (including \"Tampico\" and Greene's \"Across the Alley from the Alamo\") made it possible for Kenton to finance his more ambitious projects.\n\nWhen composer/arranger Pete Rugolo joined the Stan Kenton Orchestra as staff arranger in late 1945 he brought with him his love of jazz, Stravinsky and Bartók. Given free rein by Kenton, Rugolo experimented. Although Kenton himself was already trying experimental scores prior to Rugolo's tenure, it was Rugolo who brought extra jazz and classical influences much needed to move the band forward artistically.\n\nDuring his first six months on the staff, Rugolo tried to copy Kenton's sound; on encouragement from the leader he explored his own voice. By incorporating compositional techniques borrowed from the modern classical music he studied, Rugolo was a key part of one its most fertile and creative periods.\n\nThe \"Artistry in Rhythm\" ensemble was a formative band, with outstanding soloists. By early 1947, the Stan Kenton Orchestra had reached a high point of financial and popular success. They played in the best theaters and ballrooms in America and numerous hit records. Dances at the many ballrooms were typically four hours a night and theater dates generally involved playing mini concerts between each showing of the movie. This was sometimes five or six a day, stretching from morning to late night. Most days not actually playing were spent in buses or cars. Days off from performing were rare. For Stan Kenton they just allowed for more record signing, radio station interviews, and advertising for Capitol Records. Due to the financial and personal demands, following an April performance in Tuscaloosa, he broke up the \"Artistry in Rhythm\" incarnation of Kenton ensembles.\n\nAfter a hiatus of five months, Kenton reformed an ensemble with a new goal; he would present \"Concerts in Progressive Jazz\". This goal proved mostly obtainable but the band had to still fill in its schedule by booking dances and movie theater jobs, especially over the summer.\n\nPete Rugolo composed and arranged the great bulk of the new music, a music that Kenton declared to be \"Progressive Jazz.\" Bob Graettinger wrote twenty or so pieces for the band, including his ground-breaking opus \"City of Glass.\" Ken Hanna, who began the tour as a trumpet player, contributed a few compositions to the new band, including \"Tiare\" and \"Somnambulism\". Kenton contributed no new scores to the \"Progressive Jazz\" band, although several of his older works were performed on concerts, including \"Concerto to End All Concertos,\" \"Eager Beaver,\" \"Opus in Pastels,\" and \"Artistry in Rhythm.\"\n\nCuban inflected titles from the \"Progressive Jazz\" period include Rugolo's \"Introduction to a Latin Rhythm,\" \"Cuban Carnival,\" \"The Peanut Vendor\", and \"Journey to Brazil,\" and Bob Graettinger's \"Cuban Pastorale.\" The addition of a full-time bongo player and a Brazilian guitarist in the band enabled the writers to explore these Latin rhythms more deeply than before.\n\nThe \"Progressive Jazz\" period lasted 14 months, beginning on September 24, 1947, when the Stan Kenton Orchestra played a concert at the Rendezvous Ballroom. And it ended after the last show at the Paramount Theatre in New York City on December 14, 1948. The band produced only one album and a handful of singles, due to a recording ban by the American Federation of Musicians that lasted the entirety of 1948.\n\nThe lone record, \"A Presentation of Progressive Jazz,\" received a 3 out of 4 rating from Tom Herrick in \"DownBeat\". Metronome rated it \"C\" calling it a \"jerry-built jumble of effects and counter-effects\" and \"this album presents very little that can justifiably be called either jazz or progressive.\" \"Billboard\" scored it 80 out of 100, but declared it \"as mumbo-jumbo a collection of cacophony as has ever been loosed on an unsuspecting public.\n\nMany sidemen from the \"Artistry\" band returned, but there were significant changes. Laurindo Almeida on classical guitar, and Jack Costanzo on bongos dramatically changed the band's timbre. Both were firsts for the Kenton band, or any jazz band for that matter. The rhythm section included returnees Eddie Safranski (bass) and Shelly Manne (drums), both destined to win first place Down Beat awards.\n\nFour of the five trumpet players returned: Buddy Childers, Ray Wetzel, Chico Alvarez, and Ken Hanna. Al Porcino was added to the already powerhouse section. Conte Candoli joined the band, replacing Porcino, in February 1948.\n\nKai Winding, star trombonist of the \"Artistry in Rhythm\" band would not be a part of the \"Progressive Jazz\" era, except for a few dates on which he subbed. Milt Bernhart came in on lead trombone. And Bart Varsalona returned on bass trombone. Bernhart's first big solo with the Kenton band proved to be a major hit, \"The Peanut Vendor.\"\n\nThe saxophone section was much improved and modernized. Returning saxophonists included baritone Bob Gioga, holding down his chair since the very start, and Bob Cooper on tenor. With Vido Musso's departure, Cooper and his modernist sound became the featured tenor soloist. Art Pepper came on as second alto, the \"jazz\" chair. And the new lead alto was George Weidler.\n\nThis was literally a band of all-stars. They received five first place awards in the Down Beat poll at the end of 1947, and similar awards from the other magazines. The arrangers continued to push the limits of these superb instrumentalists in their compositions. Works from this period are more sophisticated than those written for the \"Artistry\" band, and are some of the first and most successful \"third stream\" compositions.\n\nThe band criss-crossed the country, appearing in the nation's top concert venues, including Carnegie Hall, Boston Symphony Hall, Chicago Civic Opera House, Academy of Music (Philadelphia), and the Hollywood Bowl. They had extended stays at New York's Paramount Theatre and Hotel Commodore, Philadelphia's Click, Detroit's Eastwood Gardens, Radio City Theater in Minneapolis, and the Rendezvous Ballroom, a special place in Kenton's musical life.\n\nKenton's band was the first to present a concert in the famous outdoor arena, the Hollywood Bowl. His concert there on June 12, 1948 drew more than 15,000 people, and was both an artistic and commercial success. Kenton pocketed half of the box office, walking away with $13,000 for the evening's concert.\n\nThe band broke attendance records all across the country. Thanks to Kenton's public relations acumen, he was able to convince concert goers and record buyers of the importance of his music. Comedy numbers and June Christy vocals helped break up the seriousness of the new music.\n\nKenton's successes did not sit well with everyone. In an essay entitled \"Economics and Race in Jazz\", Leslie B. Rout Jr. wrote that \"the real scourge of the 1946-1949 period was the all-white Stan Kenton band. Dubbing his musical repertoire 'progressive jazz,' Kenton saw his orchestra become the first in jazz history to reach an annual gross of $1,000,000 in 1948.\" He contrasted this with a situation in which critical and public recognition of \"Dizzy Gillespie as the premiere bopper could not be transformed into coin of the realm.\"\n\nAt the end of 1948, as the band was fulfilling an extended engagement at the Paramount Theater in New York City, the leader notified his sidemen, his bookers, and the press, that he would be disbanding once more. Kenton's most artistically and commercially successful band ceased to be at the top of their game. On December 14, the Stan Kenton Orchestra played their last notes for over a year. When they returned, there would be new faces, new music and a string section.\n\nAfter a year's hiatus, in 1950 Kenton finally put together the large 39-piece Innovations in Modern Music Orchestra that included 16 strings, a woodwind section, and two French horns. The music was an extension of the works composed and recorded since 1947 in by Bob Graettinger, Manny Albam, Franklyn Marks and others. Name jazz musicians such as Maynard Ferguson, Shorty Rogers, Milt Bernhart, John Graas, Art Pepper, Bud Shank, Bob Cooper, Laurindo Almeida, Shelly Manne, and June Christy were part of these musical ensembles. The groups managed two tours during 1950–51, from a commercial standpoint it would be Stan Kenton's first major failure. Kenton soon reverted to a more standard 19-piece lineup.\n\nIn order to be more commercially viable, Kenton reformed the band in 1951 to a much more standard instrumentation: five saxes, five trombones, five trumpets, piano, guitar, bass, drums. The charts of such arrangers as Gerry Mulligan, Johnny Richards, and particularly Bill Holman and Bill Russo began to dominate the repertoire. The music was written to better reflect the style of cutting edge, be-bop oriented big bands; like those of Dizzy Gillespie or Woody Herman. Young, talented players and outstanding jazz soloists such as Maynard Ferguson, Lee Konitz, Conte Candoli, Sal Salvador, and Frank Rosolino made strong contributions to the level of the 1952–'53 band. The music composed and arranged during this time was far more tailor made to contemporary jazz tastes; the 1953 album \"New Concepts of Artistry in Rhythm\" is noted as one of the high points in Kenton's career as band leader. Though the band was to have a very strong \"concert book\", Kenton also made sure the dance book was made new, fresh and contemporary. The album \"Sketches on Standards\" from 1953 is an excellent example of Kenton appealing to a wider audience while using the band and Bill Russo's arranging skills to their fullest potential. Even though the personnel changed rather rapidly, Kenton's focus was very clear on where he would lead things musically. By this time producer Lee Gillette worked well in concert with Kenton to create a balanced set of recordings that were both commercially viable and cutting edge musically.\n\nArguably the most \"swinging\" band Kenton was to field came when legendary drummer Mel Lewis joined the orchestra in 1954. Kenton's \"Contemporary Concepts\" (1955) and \"Kenton in Hi-Fi\" (1956) albums during this time are very impressive as a be-bop recording and then a standard dance recording (respectively). \"Kenton in Hi-Fi\"s wide popularity and sales benefited from the fact it was his greatest hits of ten years earlier re-recorded in stereo with a contemporary, much higher level band. The album climbed all the way up to #22 on the Billboard album charts and provided much needed revenue at a time when Rock n Roll had started to become the dominant pop music in the United States. It would become more and more difficult for Kenton to alternate between 'dance' and serious 'jazz' albums while staying financially solvent.\nOne of the standout projects and recordings for the mid-1950s band is the \"Cuban Fire!\" album released in 1956. Though Stan Kenton had recorded earlier hits such as \"The Peanut Vendor\" in 1947 with Latin percussionist Machito, as well as many other Latin flavored singles, the \"Cuban Fire!\" suite and LP stands as a watershed set of compositions for Johnny Richards' career and an outstanding commercial/artistic achievement for the Kenton orchestra, and a singular landmark in large ensemble Latin jazz recordings. \"CUBAN FIRE is completely authentic, the way it combines big-band jazz with genuine Latin-American rhythms.\" The success of the \"Cuban Fire!\" album can be gauged in part by the immediate ascent of Johnny Richards' star after its release; he was suddenly offered a contract by Bethlehem Records to record what would be the first of several recordings with his own groups.\n\nAt one point, Kenton faced a controversy in 1956 with comments he made when the band returned from a European tour. The current Critics Poll in \"Down Beat\" was now dominated by African-American musicians in virtually every category. The Kenton band was playing in Ontario, Canada at the time, and Kenton dispatched a telegram which lamented \"a new minority, white jazz musicians,\" and stated his \"disgust [with the so-called] literary geniuses of jazz.\" Jazz critic Leonard Feather responded in the October 3, 1956, issue of \"Down Beat\" with an open letter that questioned Kenton's racial views. Feather implied that Kenton's failure to win the Critics Poll was probably the real reason for the complaint, and wondered if racial prejudice was involved. In hindsight the record shows Kenton's biggest sin is to have hastily fired off the comments. His racial views and relationships with Black or Hispanic musicians were quite good dating back to interaction with Charlie Parker, Dizzy Gillespie, Machito and Nat King Cole besides having band members such as Lucky Thompson, Curtis Counce, Ramon Lopez, Kevin Jordan, and Douglas Purviance.\n\nBy the end of the decade Kenton was with the last incarnation of a 19-piece, '50s-style Kenton orchestra. Many bands have been called a leader's \"best\"; this last Kenton 1959 incarnation of the 1950s bands may very well be the best. The group would pull off one of Kenton's most artistic, subtle and introspective recordings, \"Standards in Silhouette.\" As trombonist Archie LeCoque recalled of this album of very slow ballads, \"...it was hard, but at the time we were all young and straight-ahead, we got through it and (two) albums came out well.\" By 1959 Stereophonic sound recording was now being fully utilized with all major labels. One of the great triumphs of the \"Standards in Silhouette\" album is the mature writing, the combination of the room used, a live group with very few overdubs, and the recording being in full stereo fidelity (and later remastered to digital). Bill Mathieu was highly skeptical of the decision to record his music like \"Cuban Fire!\" in a cavernous ballroom. Mathieu adds: \"Stan and producer Lee Gillette were absolutely right: the band sounds alive and awake (which is not easy when recording many hours of slow-tempo music in a studio), and most importantly, the players could hear themselves well in the live room. The end result is the band sounds strong and cohesive, and the album is well recorded.\" This is the last set of studio dates before Kenton would retool the entire orchestra in 1960.\n\nThe Kenton orchestra had been on a slow decline in sales and popularity in the late 1950s with having to compete with newer, popular music artists such as Elvis Presley, Bobby Darin and The Platters. The nadir of this decline was around 1958 and coincided with a recession that was effecting the entire country. There were far fewer big bands on the road and live music venues were hard to book for the Kenton orchestra. The band would end 1959 beaten up by poor attendance at concerts and having to rely far more on dance halls than real jazz concerts. The band would reform in 1960 with a new look and new sound, this was larger group with a 'mellophonium' section added and part of an upsurge in Kenton's popularity.\n\nThe new instrument was used by Kenton to \"bridge the gap\" in range, color, and tonality between his trumpet and trombone sections. Essentially it creates a conical, midrange sound that is common in a symphonic setting with a horn (French horn) but the bell of the instrument faces forward. Kenton's 1961 recording \"The Romantic Approach\" for Capitol is the first of 11 LPs that would feature the \"mellophonium band\". Kenton arranged the whole first mellophonium album himself and it was very well received in a September 1961 review in \"Down Beat\".\nThe Kenton Orchestra from 1960 to 1963 had numerous successes; the band had a relentless recording schedule. The albums \"Kenton's West Side Story\" (arrangements by Johnny Richards) and \"Adventures In Jazz\", each won Grammy awards in 1962 and 1963 respectively. Ralph Carmichael wrote a superb set of Christmas charts for Kenton which translated into one of the most popular recordings from the band leader to date: \"A Merry Christmas!.\" Also, Johnny Richards' \"Adventures in Time\" suite (recorded in 1962) was the culmination of all things the mellophonium band was capable of. After the Fall 1963 U.S./U.K. tour ended in November, the mellophonium incarnation of Kenton bands was done. The conditions of Stan’s divorce from jazz singer, Ann Richards was that a judge ordered Stan to take a year off the road to help raise their two children or lose custody all together. Kenton would not reform another road band for tour until 1965.\n\nKenton had ties from earlier writing of country/western songs that were a success with Capitol and again he tried his hand in that genre during the early 1960s. In a music market that was becoming increasingly tight, in 1962 he cut the hit single \"Mama Sang a Song\"; his last Top-40 ( 32 \"Billboard\", No. 22 Music Vendor). The song was a narration written by country singer Bill Anderson and spoken by Kenton. The single also received a Grammy nomination the following year in the Best Documentary or Spoken Word Recording category. The other attempt he made into that market was the far less successful \"Stan Kenton! Tex Ritter!\", released in 1962 as a full LP.\n\nAfter the breakup of the mellophonium band, \"Kenton / Wagner\" (1964) was an important recording project that Kenton arranged himself, again moving towards \"progressive jazz\" or third stream music. This album was not a financial success but kept Kenton at the forefront of 'art music' interpretation in the commercial music world. \"Stan Kenton Conducts the Los Angeles Neophonic Orchestra\" (1965) was an artistic success that garnered another Grammy nomination for the band leader.\n\nThe 1966 - 1969 Capitol releases for Stan Kenton were a severe low point for his recording career. Capitol producer Lee Gillette was trying to exploit the money making possibilities of numerous popular hits to include the 1968 musical \"Hair\" featuring contemporary rock music. Due to lack of promotion by Capitol, four LPs were financial failures; this would be the last releases for Kenton under the aegis of long time Kenton producer Lee Gillette and Capitol. In fact, by the time it was recorded Kenton had no involvement in the \"Hair\" LP except for Kenton's name placed on the jacket cover; Ralph Carmichael and Lennie Niehaus were placed in charge of the project. Two exceptions to this late 1960s period are the Billboard charted single the band cut of the \"Dragnet\" theme (1967) and another \"Kenton presents\" release featuring the music of composer and ex-bandsman Dee Barton: \"The Jazz Compositions of Dee Barton\" (1967).\n\nThe transition from Capitol to Creative World Records in 1970 was fraught with difficulties during a time when the music business was changing rapidly. As a viable jazz artist who was trying to keep a loyal but dwindling following, Kenton turned to arrangers such as Hank Levy and Bob Curnow to write material that appealed to a younger audience. The first releases for the Creative World label were live concerts and Kenton had the control he wanted over content but lacked substantial resources to engineer, mix, and promote what Capitol underwrote in the past. Kenton would take a big gamble to bypass the current record industry and rely far more on the direct mail lists of jazz fans which the newly formed Creative World label would need to sell records. Kenton also made his print music available to college and high-school stage bands with several publishers.\nKenton continued leading and touring with his big band up to his final performance in August 1978.\nIn June 1973 Bob Curnow had started as the new artists and repertoire manager overseeing the whole operation of the Creative World Records. It was just the year before (in 1972) the Kenton orchestra recorded the \"National Anthems of the World\" double LP with 40 arrangements all done by Curnow. As per Curnow himself, \"That was a remarkable and very difficult time for me. I was managing (Stan's) record company with NO ex.rience in business, writing music like mad, living in a new place and culture (Los Angeles was another world), traveling a LOT (out with the band at least 1 week a month) and trying to keep it together at home.\"\n\nWhen Kenton took to the road during the early 1970s and up to his last tour, he took with him seasoned veteran musicians (John Worster, Willie Maiden, Warren Gale, Graham Ellis and others) teaming them with relatively unknown young artists, and new arrangements (including those by Hank Levy, Bill Holman, Bob Curnow, Willie Maiden and Ken Hanna) were used. Many alumni associated with Kenton from this era became educators (Mike Vax, John Von Ohlen, Chuck Carter, and Richard Torres), and a few went on to take their musical careers to the next level, such as Peter Erskine and Tim Hagans.\n\nKenton was a salient figure on the American musical scene and made an indelible mark on the arranged type of big band jazz. Kenton's music evolved with the times from 1940 through the 1970s. He was at the vanguard of promoting jazz and jazz improvisation through his service as an educator through his Stan Kenton Band Clinics. The \"Kenton Style\" continues to permeate big bands at the high school and collegiate level, and the framework he designed for the \"jazz clinic\" is still widely in use today.\n\nStarting in the waning days of the big band era, Kenton found a multitude of ways in which to progress his art form. In his hands the size of the jazz orchestra expanded greatly, at times exceeding forty musicians. The frequency range (high and low notes) was also increased with the use of bass trombones and tuba, and baritone and bass saxophones. The dynamic range was pushed on both ends; the band could play softer and louder than any other big band. Kenton was the primary band leader responsible for moving the big band from the dance hall to the concert hall; one of the most important and successful players in the Third Stream movement.\n\nInterest in his music has experienced somewhat of a resurgence, with critical \"rediscovery\" of his music and many reissues of his recordings. An alumni band named for him tours, led by lead trumpeter Mike Vax, which performs not only classic Kenton arrangements, but also new music written and performed by the band members (much like Kenton's own groups). Kenton donated his entire library to the music library of North Texas State University (now the University of North Texas), and the Stan Kenton Jazz Recital Hall is named in his honor. His arrangements are now published by Sierra Music Publications.\n\nWhen comparing the four longest running touring jazz orchestras (Kenton, Herman, Basie, Ellington), Stan Kenton's band had a higher turnover of personnel. Bob Gioga, Buddy Childers, and Dick Shearer all played for Kenton for over a decade. Other important soloists such as Lennie Niehaus, Bill Perkins and Chico Alvarez had lengthy stays on the band as well. The list of noted jazz players, studio musicians is impressive and the consistency of the group from 1941 to Kenton's passing in 1979 is notable. Stan Kenton's leadership and music vision was clear to marshal the forces of such a diverse set of players and arrangers over this long period of time; Kenton stands alone in the respect.\n\nKenton was born on December 15, 1911, according to his birth certificate, according to British biographer Michael Sparke.\n\nKenton had been conceived out of wedlock, and his parents told him that he was born two months later than his actual date of birth, February 19, 1912, to obscure this fact. Kenton believed well into adulthood that the February date was his birthday, and recorded the \"Birthday In Britain\" concert album on February 19, 1973.\n\nThe true date remained a closely held secret, and his grave marker shows the incorrect February 1912 birthdate.\n\nKenton was married three times. Three children were produced from the first two marriages. His first marriage was to Violet Rhoda Peters in 1935, and it lasted for 15 years. The couple had a daughter in 1941, Leslie. In her 2010 memoir, \"Love Affair\", Leslie Kenton wrote that, from 1952 to 1954, when she was between the ages of 11 and 13, her father sexually molested and raped her. She nonetheless maintained a close relationship with her father during his lifetime, though she states that she was emotionally scarred by the experience. She stated that the rapes always occurred under the influence of alcohol, that he was not fully aware of his actions, and that 20 years later he apologized profusely for his previous behavior. Leslie was an author of several books about health, spirituality and beauty.\n\nIn 1955, Stan Kenton married San Diego-born singer Ann Richards, who was 23 years his junior. The relationship produced two children: daughter Dana Lynn and son Lance. In 1961, Richards posed for a nude layout for \"Playboy\" magazine's June 1961 issue. She signed a contract to record with Atco, a company other than Capitol Records that her husband was unaware of. The \"Playboy\" shoot was done without Kenton's knowledge, and he only found out about it while playing at the Aragon Ballroom in Chicago when handed the magazine by Charles Suter, who was the editor of \"Down Beat\" magazine at the time. Richards was not typically on the road with the band, though she had recorded the album \"Two Much!\" with Kenton in 1960. Kenton filed for divorce in August 1961.\n\nKenton's third marriage was to Joann J. Hill, in 1967. This also ended in divorce, two years later.\n\nIn his later years he lived with his public relations secretary and last business manager Audree Coke Kenton, though they never formally married.\n\nKenton's heavy consumption of alcohol contributed to the physical difficulties he encountered during the last 10 years of his life.\n\nKenton's son Lance became a member of the controversial Synanon new-age community in California, and served as one of its \"Imperial Marines,\" a group entrusted with committing violence against former members and others considered enemies of the community. In 1978 he was arrested for helping to put a rattlesnake in the mailbox of an anti-Synanon lawyer, and he was sentenced to a year in prison.\n\nKenton had two accidental falls, one in the early 1970s and then again in the autumn of 1977 while on tour in Reading, Pennsylvania. The second fall was very serious as he fractured his skull. The last two years of his life became far more physically challenging for Kenton from the effects of the two accidents.\n\nOn August 17, 1979, he was admitted to Midway Hospital near his home in Los Angeles after a stroke; he died eight days later, on August 25. At the time of his death he had three grandchildren. Kenton was interred in the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery, Los Angeles.\n\nGold Records\n\nBetween 1944 and 1967, Stan Kenton had numerous hits on Billboard's charts.\n\nGrammy Hall of Fame\n\n\nEMPixx Awards - Platinum Award in the Documentary Category/Platinum Award in the Use of Music Category.\n\nUnited States Library of Congress National Recording Registry\n\n\n\nStan Kenton's compositions include \"Artistry in Rhythm\", \"Opus in Pastels\", \"Artistry Jumps\", \"Reed Rapture\", \"Eager Beaver\", \"Fantasy\", \"Southern Scandal\", \"Harlem Folk Dance\", \"Painted Rhythm\", \"Concerto to End All Concertos\", \"Easy Go\", \"Concerto for Doghouse\", \"Shelly Manne\", \"Balboa Bash\", \"Flamenco\", and \"Sunset Tower\".\n\nAlthough several compositions are co-credited to Stan Kenton and Pete Rugolo, Rugolo was the primary composer, with Kenton oftentimes merely offering verbal suggestions. Compositions that were true collaborations include \"Artistry in Boogie,\" \"Collaboration,\" and \"Theme to the West.\" Additionally, in spite of getting co-composer credit, Kenton's sole contribution to his hit song from 1944 \"And Her Tears Flowed Like Wine\" was that of being a band leader; Joe Greene wrote the lyrics, Charles Lawrence composed the melody and Bob Hope's resident arranger, Buddy Baker, supplied the arrangement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1204451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1204451", "title": "Sundanese people", "text": "Sundanese people\n\nThe Sundanese (Sundanese: , Urang Sunda) are an Austronesian ethnic group native to the western part of the Indonesian island of Java. They number approximately 40 million, and form Indonesia's second most populous ethnic group, after the neighboring Javanese. In their language, Sundanese, the Sundanese refer to themselves as \"Urang Sunda\" (), while \"Orang Sunda\" or \"Suku Sunda\" is its Indonesian equivalent.\n\nThe Sundanese have traditionally been concentrated in the provinces of West Java, Banten, Jakarta, and the western part of Central Java. Sundanese migrants can also be found in Lampung and South Sumatra, and to lesser extent in Central Java and East Java.\n\nThe name \"Sunda\" derives from the Sanskrit prefix \"su\"- which means \"goodness\" or \"possessing good quality\". The example is \"suvarna\" (lit:\"good color\") used to describe gold. \"Sunda\" is also another name for Hindu God Vishnu. In Sanskrit, the term \"Sundara\" (masculine) or \"Sundari\" (feminine) means \"beautiful\" or \"excellence\". The term \"Sunda\" also means bright, light, purity, cleanness and white.\n\nThe Sundanese are of Austronesian origins who are thought to have originated in Taiwan, migrated though the Philippines, and reached Java between 1,500 BC and 1,000 BC. Nevertheless, there is also a hypothesis that argues that the Austronesian ancestors of contemporary Sundanese people originally came from Sundaland, a sunken massive peninsula that today forms the Java Sea, the Malacca and Sunda straits, and the islands between them. According to recent genetic study, Sundanese, together with Javanese and Balinese has almost equal ratio of genetic marker shared between Austronesian and Austroasiatic heritages.\n\nThe \"Sunda Wiwitan\" belief contains the mythical origin of Sundanese people; Sang Hyang Kersa, the supreme divine being in ancient Sundanese belief created seven bataras (deities) in Sasaka Pusaka Buana (The Sacred Place on Earth). The oldest of these bataras is called Batara Cikal and is considered the ancestor of the Kanekes people. Other six bataras ruled various locations in Sunda lands in Western Java. A Sundanese legend of Sangkuriang contain the memory of the prehistoric ancient lake in Bandung basin highland, which suggest that Sundanese already inhabit the region since Mesolithic era, at least 20,000 years ago. Another popular Sundanese proverb and legend mentioned about the creation of Parahyangan (Priangan) highlands, the heartland of Sundanese realm; \"When the hyangs (gods) were smiling, the land of Parahyangan was created\". This legend suggested the Parahyangan highland as the playland or the abode of gods, as well as suggesting its natural beauty.\n\nThe earliest historical polity which appeared in the Sundanese realm in the Western part of Java was the kingdom of Tarumanagara, which flourished between the 4th and 7th century. Hindu influences reached the Sundanese people as early as the 4th century CE as is evident in Tarumanagara inscriptions. The adoption of this dharmic faith in Sundanese way of life was, however, never as intense as their Javanese counterparts. It seems that despite the central court beginning to adopt Hindu-Buddhist culture and institution, the majority of common Sundanese still retained their native natural and ancestral worship. By the 4th century, the older megalithic culture was probably still alive and well next to the penetrating Hindu influences. Court cultures flourished in ancient times, for example, during the era of Sunda Kingdom, however the Sundanese appear not to have had the resources nor desire to construct large religious monuments similar to those built by Javanese in Central and East Java. The traditional rural Sundanese method of rice farming, by \"ladang\" or \"huma\" (dry rice farming), in contrast to Javanese irrigated \"sawah\" wet rice cultivation (that require complex administration, coordination, and a lot of labor forces), also contributed to small populations of sparsely inhabited Sundanese villages.\n\nGeographic constraints that isolate each region also led Sundanese villages to enjoy their simple way of life and their independence even more. That was probably the factor that would contribute to the carefree nature, egalitarian, conservative, independent and somewhat individualistic social outlook of Sundanese people. The Sundanese seem to love and revere their nature in spiritual ways, leading to them adopting some taboos in order to conserve the nature and maintain the ecosystem. The conservative tendency and their somewhat opposition to foreign influences, is demonstrated in extreme isolationist measures adopted keenly by Kanekes or Baduy people. They have rules against interacting with outsiders and adopting foreign ideas, technology, and ways of life. They have also set some taboos, such as not cutting trees nor harming forest creatures, in order to conserve their natural ecosystem.\n\nOne of the earliest historical records that mentions the name \"Sunda\" appears in the Sanghyang Tapak inscription dated 952 saka (1030 CE) discovered in Cibadak, near Sukabumi. In 1225, a Chinese writer named Chou Ju-kua, in his book \"Chu-fan-chi\", describes the port of \"Sin-t'o\" (Sunda), which probably refers to the port of Banten or Kalapa. By examining these records, it seems that the name \"Sunda\" started to appear in the early 11th century as a Javanese term used to designate their western neighbours. A Chinese source more specifically refers to it as the port of Banten or Sunda Kelapa. After the formation and consolidation of the Sunda Kingdom's unity and identity during the Pajajaran era under the rule of Sri Baduga Maharaja (popularly known as King Siliwangi), the shared common identity of Sundanese people was more firmly established. They adopted the name \"Sunda\" to identify their kingdom, their people and their language.\n\nInland Pasundan is mountainous and hilly, and until the 19th century, was thickly forested and sparsely populated. The Sundanese traditionally live in small and isolated hamlets, rendering control by indigenous courts difficult. The Sundanese, in contrast to the Javanese, traditionally engage in dry-field farming. These factors resulted in the Sundanese having a less rigid social hierarchy and more independent social manners. In the 19th century, Dutch colonial exploitation opened much of the interior for coffee, tea, and quinine production, and the highland society took on a frontier aspect, further strengthening the individualistic Sundanese mindset.\n\nThere is popular belief among Indonesian ethnicities that Sundanese are famous for their beauty, in his report \"Summa Oriental\" on early 16th century Sunda Kingdom, Tomé Pires mentioned: \"The (Sundanese) women are beautiful, and those of the nobles chaste, which is not the case with those of the lower classes\". It was said that Sundanese women are — in estimation of Indonesians — one of the most beautiful in the country. In Indonesian popular beliefs, it was said that because of the climate, they have lighter complexion than other Indonesians, and because the Sundanese diet features raw vegetables, they reputedly possess especially soft skin. Bandungite ladies, popularly known as \"Mojang Priangan\" are reputedly pretty, fashion smart and forward looking. Probably because of this, many Sundanese people today pursue careers in the Indonesian entertainment industry.\n\nThe Sundanese language is spoken by approximately 36 million people and is the second most widely spoken regional language in Indonesia, after Javanese. The 2000 Indonesia Census put this figure at 30.9 million. This language is spoken in the southern part of the Banten province, and most of West Java and eastwards as far as the Pamali River in Brebes, Central Java.\n\nSundanese is also closely related to Malay and Minang as it is to Javanese, as seen by the Sundanese utilising different language levels denoting rank and respect – a concept borrowed from the Javanese. Sundanese shares similar vocabularies with Javanese and Malay. There are several dialects of Sundanese, from the Sunda–Banten dialect to the Sunda–Central Javanese dialect which mixes elements of Javanese. Some of the most distinct dialects are from Banten, Bogor, Priangan, and Cirebon. In Central Java, Sundanese is spoken in some of the Cilacap region and some of the Brebes region. It is known that the most refined Sundanese dialect — which is considered as its original form – are those spoken in Ciamis, Tasikmalaya, Garut, Bandung, Sumedang, Sukabumi, and especially Cianjur (The dialect spoken by people living in Cianjur is considered as the most refined Sundanese). While Sundanese spoken on north coast, Banten and Cirebon is considered less refined. While the language spoken by the people of Baduy is considered the archaic type of Sundanese language, before the Sundanese people adopt the concept of language stratification to denote rank and respect as demonstrated (and influenced) by Javanese.\n\nToday, the Sundanese language are mostly written in Latin script. An example of Sundanese-language media is Mangle Magazine that is written in Latin script. However, there is an effort to revive the Sundanese script which was used between the 14th and 18th centuries. For example, street names in Bandung and several cities in West Java are now written in both Latin and Sundanese scripts.\n\nThe initial religious systems of the Sundanese were animism and dynamism with reverence to ancestral (\"karuhun\") and natural spirits identified as \"hyang\", yet bears some traits of pantheism. The best indications are found in the oldest epic poems (\"wawacan\") and among the remote Baduy tribe. This religion is called \"Sunda Wiwitan\" (\"early Sundanese\"). The rice agriculture had shaped the culture, beliefs and ritual system of traditional Sundanese people, among other the reverence to Nyai Pohaci Sanghyang Asri as the goddess of rice and fertility. The land of Sundanese people in Western Java is among the earliest place in Indonesian archipelago that being exposed to Indian Hindu-Buddhist influences. Tarumanagara followed by Sunda Kingdom adopted Hinduism as early as the 4th century. The Batujaya stupa complex in Karawang shows Buddhist influences in West Java, while Cangkuang Shivaic temple near Garut shows Hindu influence. The 16th century sacred text Sanghyang siksakanda ng karesian contain the religious and moral rules, guidance, prescriptions and lessons for ancient Sundanese people.\n\nAround the 15th to 16th centuries Islam began to spread among the Sundanese people by Indian Muslim traders, and its adoption accelerated after the fall of the Hindu Sunda Kingdom and the establishment of the Islamic Sultanates of Banten and Cirebon in coastal West Java. Numerous ulama (locally known as \"kyai\") penetrated villages in the mountainous regions of Parahyangan and established mosques and schools (pesantren) and spread the Islamic faith amongst the Sundanese people. Small traditional Sundanese communities retained their indigenous social and belief systems, adopting self-imposed isolation, and refused foreign influences, proselytism and modernization altogether, such as those of the Baduy (Kanekes) people of inland Lebak Regency. Some Sundanese villages such as those in Cigugur Kuningan retained their Sunda Wiwitan beliefs, while some villages such as Kampung Naga in Tasikmalaya, and Sindang Barang Pasir Eurih in Bogor, although identifying themselves as Muslim, still uphold pre-Islamic traditions and taboos and venerated the \"karuhun\" (ancestral spirits). Today, most Sundanese are Sunni Muslims.\n\nAfter Western Java fell under Dutch East India Company control in the early 18th century, and later under colonial Dutch East Indies control, Christian evangelism towards the Sundanese people was started by missionaries of Genootschap voor In- en Uitwendige Zending te Batavia (GIUZ). This organization was founded by Mr. F. L. Anthing and Pastor E. W. King in 1851. However, it was Nederlandsche Zendelings Vereeniging (NZV) which sent their missionaries to convert the Sundanese peoples. They started the mission in Batavia, later expanding into several towns in West Java such as Bandung, Cianjur, Cirebon, Bogor and Sukabumi. They built schools, churches and hospitals for native people in West Java. Compared to the large Sundanese Muslim population, the numbers of Christian Sundanese are scarce; today Christians in West Java are mostly Chinese Indonesian residing in West Java, with only small numbers of native Sundanese Christians.\nIn contemporary Sundanese social and religious life, there is a growing shift towards Islamism, especially amongst urban Sundanese. Today, compared to the 1960s, many Sundanese Muslim women have decided to wear the hijab. The same phenomena was also found earlier in the Malay community in Sumatra and Malaysia. Indeed, modern history saw the rise of political Islam through the birth of Darul Islam Indonesia in Tasikmalaya, West Java, back in 1949, although later this Islamist movement was cracked down upon by the Indonesian Republic. In modern contemporary political landscapes, the Sundanese realm in West Java and Banten also provides popular support for Islamic parties such as Partai Keadilan Sejahtera and Partai Persatuan Pembangunan. There are numbers of Sundanese ulama and Islamic preachers who have been quite successful in gaining national popularity, such as Kyai Abdullah Gymnastiar and Mamah Dedeh who have become TV personalities through their \"dakwah\" show. There are an increasing number of Sundanese people who are consider the Hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca) as something that enjoys social prestige. On the other side, there is also a growing movement led by the minority Sundanese conservative traditionalist \"adat\", the \"Sunda Wiwitan\" community, who are struggling to achieve wider acceptance and recognition of their faith and way of life.\n\nSundanese culture has borrowed much from Javanese culture, however it differs by a much less rigid system of social hierarchy. The Sundanese, in their mentality and behavior, their greater egalitarianism and antipathy to yawning class distinctions, and their community-based material culture, differ from the feudal hierarchy apparent among the people of Javanese principalities. Central Javanese court culture nurtured in atmosphere conducive to elite, stylized, impeccably-polished forms of art and literature. In a pure sense, Sundanese culture bore few traces of these traditions.\n\nCulturally Sundanese people adopt a bilateral kinship system, with male and female descent are of equal importance. In Sundanese families the important rituals revolved around life cycles, from birth to death, adopting many of the previous Animist and Hindu-Buddhist, as well as Islamic traditions. For example, during the seventh month of pregnancy there is a prenatal ritual called \"Nujuh Bulanan\" (identical to Naloni Mitoni in Javanese tradition) which traces its origins to Hindu ritual. Shortly after the birth of a baby, a ritual called \"Akekahan\" (from Arabic word: Aqiqah) is performed; an Islamic tradition in which the parents slaughter a goat for a baby girl or two goats for a baby boy, the meat later being cooked and distributed to relatives and neighbours. The circumcision ceremony is performed on pre-pubescent boys and celebrated with Sisingaan (lion) dance.\n\nThe wedding ceremony is the highlight of Sundanese family celebration involving complex rituals from \"naroskeun\" and \"neundeun omong\" (marriage proposal and agreement conducted by parents and family elders), \"siraman\" (bridal shower), \"seserahan\" (presenting wedding gifts for the bride), \"akad nikah\" (wedding vows), \"saweran\" (throwing coins, mixed with flower petals and sometimes also candies, for the unmarried guests to collect and believed to bring better luck in romance), \"huap lingkung\" (bride and groom feed each other by hand, with arms entwined to symbolize love and affection), \"bakakak hayam\" (bride and groom ripping a grilled chicken through holding each of its leg; a traditional way to determine which one will dominate the family which is the one that get the larger or head part), and the wedding feast inviting whole family and business relatives, neighbours, and friends as guests. The death in a Sundanese family usually performed through a series of rituals in accordance with traditional Islam, such as the \"pengajian\" (reciting Al Quran) including providing \"berkat\" (rice box with side dishes) for guests. The Quran recitation is performed daily, from the day of death through the seventh day following; later performed again on the 40th day, a year, and 1,000th days after the death. However today this tradition is not always closely and faithfully followed since growing numbers of Sundanese are adopting a less traditional Islam which does not maintain many of the older traditions.\n\nSundanese literature was basically oral; their arts (architecture, music, dance, textiles, ceremonies, etc.) substantially preserved traditions from an earlier phase of civilization, stretching back even to the Neolithic, and never overwhelmed (as eastward, in Java) by aristocratic Hindu-Buddhist ideas. The art and culture of Sundanese people reflect historical influences by various cultures that include pre-historic native animism and shamanism traditions, ancient Hindu-Buddhist heritage, and Islamic culture. The Sundanese have very vivid, orally-transmitted memories of the grand era of the Sunda Kingdom. The oral tradition of Sundanese people is called Pantun Sunda: the chant of poetic verses employed for story-telling. It is the counterpart of Javanese \"tembang\", similar to but independent from Malay pantun. The Pantun Sunda often recount Sundanese folklore and legends such as Sangkuriang, Lutung Kasarung, Ciung Wanara, Mundinglaya Dikusumah, the tales of King Siliwangi, and popular children's folk stories such as Si Leungli.\n\nTraditional Sundanese arts include various forms of music, dance, and martial arts. The most notable types of Sundanese music are angklung bamboo music, kecapi suling music, gamelan degung, reyog Sunda and rampak gendang. The Angklung bamboo musical instrument is considered one of the world heritages of intangible culture.\n\nThe most well known and distinctive Sundanese dances are Jaipongan, a traditional social dance which is usually, but mistakenly, associated with eroticism. Other popular dances such as Merak dance describe colorful dancing peafowls. Sisingaan dance is performed especially in the Subang area to celebrate the circumcision ritual where the boy to be circumcised is seated upon a lion figure carried by four men. Other dances such as the Peafowl dance, Dewi dance and Ratu Graeni dance shows Javanese Mataram courtly influences.\n\nWayang golek puppetry is the most popular wayang performance for Sundanese people. Many forms of \"kejawen\" dance, literature, gamelan music and shadow puppetry (\"wayang kulit\") derive from the Javanese. Sundanese puppetry is more influenced by Islamic folklore than the influence of Indian epics present in Javanese versions.\n\nThe Pencak silat martial art in Sundanese tradition can be traced to the historical figure King Siliwangi of Sunda Pajajaran kingdom, with Cimande is one of the most prominent school. The recently developed Tarung Derajat is also a popular martial art in West Java. Kujang is the traditional weapon of the Sundanese people.\n\nThe architecture of a Sundanese house is characterized by its functionality, simplicity, modesty, uniformity with a little details, its use of natural thatched materials, and its quite faithful adherence to the harmony with the nature and environment.\n\nSundanese traditional houses mostly take basic form of gable roofed structure, commonly called \"kampung\" style roof, made of thatched materials (\"ijuk\" black \"aren\" fibers, \"kirai\", \"hateup\" leaves or palm leaves) covering wooden frames and beams, woven bamboo walls, and its structure is built on short stilts. Its roof variations might includes hip and gablet roof (combination of gable and hip roof).\n\nThe more elaborate overhanging gablet roof is called \"Julang Ngapak\", which means \"bird spreading wings\". Other traditional Sundanese house forms including \"Buka Pongpok, Capit Gunting, Jubleg Nangkub, Badak Heuay, Tagog Anjing\", and \"Perahu Kemureb\".\n\nNext to houses, rice barn or called \"leuit\" in Sundanese, is also an essential structure in traditional Sundanese agricultural community. \"Leuit\" is especially important during \"Seren Taun\" harvest ceremony.\n\nSundanese cuisine is one of the most popular traditional food in Indonesia, and it is also easily found in most Indonesian cities. The Sundanese food is characterized by its freshness; the famous \"lalab\" (raw vegetables salad) eaten with \"sambal\" (chilly paste) and also \"karedok\" (peanuts paste) demonstrate the Sundanese fondness for fresh raw vegetables. Similar to other ethnic groups in Indonesia, Sundanese people eat rice for almost every meal. The Sundanese like to say, \"If you have not eaten rice, then you have not eaten at all.\" Rice is prepared in hundreds of different ways. However, it is simple steamed rice that serves as the centerpiece of all meals.\n\nNext to steamed rice, the side dishes of vegetables, fish, or meat are added to provide variety of taste as well as for protein, mineral and nutrient intake. These side dishes are grilled, fried, steamed or boiled and spiced with any combination of garlic, galangal (a plant of the ginger family), turmeric, coriander, ginger, and lemon grass. The herb rich food wrapped and cooked inside banana leaf called \"pepes\" (Sundanese:\"pais\") is popular among Sundanese people. \"Pepes\" are available in many varieties according to its ingredients; carp fish, anchovies, minced meat with eggs, mushroom, tofu or oncom. \"Oncom\" is a popular foodstuff within Sundanese cuisine, just like its counterpart, tempe, is popular among Javanese people. Usually the food itself is not too spicy, but it is served with a very hot sauce made by grinding chili peppers and garlic together. On the coast, saltwater fish are common; in the mountains, fish tend to be either pond-raised carp or goldfish. A well-known Sundanese dish is lalapan, which consists only of raw vegetables, such as papaya leaves, cucumber, eggplant, and bitter melon.\n\nIn general, Sundanese food tastes rich and savory, but not as tangy as Padang food, nor as sweet as Javanese food.\n\nThe traditional occupation of Sundanese people is agricultural, especially rice cultivation. Sundanese culture and tradition are usually centred around the agricultural cycle. Festivities such as the \"Seren Taun\" harvest ceremony are held in high importance, especially in the traditional Sundanese community in Cipta Gelar village, Cisolok, Sukabumi; Sindang Barang, Pasir Eurih village, Taman Sari, Bogor; and the traditional Sundanese community in Cigugur Kuningan. The typical Sundanese \"leuit\" (rice barn) is an important part of traditional Sundanese villages; it is held in high esteem as the symbol of wealth and welfare. Since early times, Sundanese have predominantly been farmers. They tend to be reluctant to be government officers or legislators.\n\nNext to agriculture, Sundanese people often choose business and trade to make a living although mostly are traditional entrepreneurships, such as a travelling food or drink vendors, establishing modest \"warung\" (food stall) or restaurant, as the vendor of daily consumer's goods or open a modest barber shop. Their affinity for establishing and running small-scale entrepreneurship is most likely contributed by Sundanese tendency to be independent, carefree, egalitarian, individualistic and optimistic. They seem to abhor the rigid structure and rule of government offices. Several traditional traveling food vendors and food stalls such as \"Siomay, Gado-gado\" and \"Karedok, Nasi Goreng, Cendol, Bubur Ayam, Roti Bakar\" (grilled bread), \"Bubur kacang hijau\" (green beans congee) and Indomie instant noodle stall are notably run by Sundanese.\n\nNevertheless, there are numbers of Sundanese that successfully carved their career as intellectuals or politicians in national politics, government offices and military positions. Some notable Sundanese has gained positions in Indonesian government as governor, municipal major, vice president and state ministers, also as officers and general in Indonesian military.\n\nSundanese also popularly known as cheerful and mercurial folks, as they love to joke and tease around. The wayang golek artform of Cepot, Dawala, and Gareng punakawan character clearly demonstrate Sundanese quirky side. Some Sundanese might find art and culture as their passion and become artists, either fine art, musics or performing art. Today, there are a number of Sundanese involved in the music and entertainment industry, with some of Indonesia's most famous singers, musicians, composers, cinema directors, film and Sinetrons actors being of Sundanese origin.\n\nNotable Sundanese that being recognized as Indonesian national heroes among others are Dewi Sartika that fought for equality for women education, and Indonesian statesman such as Oto Iskandar di Nata and Djuanda Kartawidjaja. Popular former governor of Jakarta Ali Sadikin, ex-vice president Umar Wirahadikusumah, and former defense minister Agum Gumelar, and ministers of foreign affairs such as Mochtar Kusumaatmadja, Hassan Wirajuda and Marty Natalegawa, Meutya Hafid are among notable Sundanese on politics field. Ajip Rosidi and Achdiat Karta Mihardja are among Indonesian distinguished poets and writers.\n\nToday, in modern Indonesian music and entertainment industry, there are large numbers of Sundanese artists that has become Indonesia's most famous singers, musicians, composers, cinema directors, film and sinetrons (TV soap drama) actors. Famous dangdut singers Rhoma Irama, Elvy Sukaesih and Ayu Ting Ting, musicians and composers such as Erwin Gutawa and singers such as Roekiah, Hetty Koes Endang, Vina Panduwinata, Nicky Astria, Nike Ardilla, Rossa, Gita Gutawa and popular celebrity Syahrini, Indonesian sinetrons actors such as Raffi Ahmad, Jihan Fahira and Asmirandah Zantman, also film director Nia Dinata, are among artists of Sundanese background. Famous wayang golek puppet master was Asep Sunandar Sunarya, while Sule, Jojon and Kang Ibing are popular comedian. On the sports field, Indonesian athletes of Sundanese background are badminton Olympic gold medalist Taufik Hidayat and Ricky Subagja.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59033562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59033562", "title": "The Access Survey", "text": "The Access Survey\n\nThe Access Survey is an annual survey of disabled people in the United Kingdom carried out by Euan's Guide. First carried out in 2014, The Access Survey gathers information on disabled people's experiences of, and attitudes toward accessibility in the United Kingdom. The results of the access survey have been used to shape accessibility policy in the tourism sector.\n\nThe Access Survey was first carried out in October 2014 and is carried out annually. The survey was designed with the aim of better understanding disabled people's experiences of accessibility. The findings of the survey have been used to shape accessibility guides published by public sector bodies including VisitScotland and VisitBritain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5089774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5089774", "title": "Tima people", "text": "Tima people\n\nThe Tima are an ethnic group of the Nuba Mountains in South Kordofan state, in southern Sudan. They number several thousands.\n\nThe Tima people speak Tima, which is in the Kordofanian languages group (of the Nuba Mountains), in the major Niger-Congo language family. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "36801519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36801519", "title": "Tom Hopper (footballer)", "text": "Tom Hopper (footballer)\n\nThomas Edward Hopper (born 14 December 1993) is an English professional footballer who plays as a forward for Southend United.\n\nTom Hopper began his career with Boston United. Hopper became Boston's youngest ever player, when aged 15 he came on as a substitute for goalscorer Spencer Weir-Daley for the final 13 minutes of a 2–1 Challenge Cup victory over Hucknall Town. In the summer of 2010, Hopper signed for Leicester City and immediately began impressing in the club's youth teams.\n\nHopper signed his first professional contract with Leicester City in October 2011. On 28 January 2012, Hopper was allocated the number 37 shirt and named on the substitutes bench for Leicester's FA Cup match against Swindon Town. He made his début as an 81st-minute substitute for David Nugent. Leicester won the match 2–0. Hopper said of his debut that \"It all seems like a blur, but something I have really enjoyed\".\n\nManager Nigel Pearson was said to be impressed by the youngster. In May 2012, he was named as Leicester City's Academy Player of the Season. Hopper was given the 21 number for the 2012–13 season. On 14 September, Hopper joined Bury on a one-month loan deal. Hopper scored twice in his first six games during a month-long loan spell at Bury, including his first ever professional league goal against Stevenage and Crawley Town. On 16 October Hopper extended his loan at Bury until 3 January 2013, which was then extended for the remaineder of the 2012–13 season on 4 January 2013. Hopper's loan spell was cut short and he was sent back to Leicester on 7 February 2013.\n\nHopper finished the season with Leicester City Development Squad & Academy, helping them to win the 2012–13 Professional Development League 2 and the HKFC International Soccer Sevens cup tournament. Hopper was allocated the number 20 shirt at the beginning of the 2013–14 season and was named as an unused substitute in Leicester's 2–1 Football League Cup win over Wycombe Wanderers on 6 August. He made his first appearance of the season in the next round of the League Cup, replacing Chris Wood in the 66th minute of a 5–2 win at Carlisle United. On 30 May 2014, Hopper signed a new two-year deal.\n\nHopper was an unused substitute in Leicester's first two Premier League fixtures, against Everton and Chelsea in August 2014.\n\nOn 8 January 2015, Hopper joined League One outfit Scunthorpe United on a one-month loan. Hopper made his debut on 10 January 2015, scoring in the 4–1 victory against Walsall. After scoring 4 goals in 4 games, Hopper's loan was extended until the end on the season on 2 February 2015. Hopper was nominated for the Sky Bet League One Player of the Month award for January, missing out to Dele Alli of MK Dons. After his Leicester contract was terminated, he joined Scunthorpe on a permanent basis on 26 June 2015.\n\nHopper signed for Southend United on 15 June 2018 on a three year deal. He scored on his debut in a 3-2 defeat to Doncaster Rovers.\n\nIn May 2015, Hopper and teammates James Pearson and Adam Smith made a sex tape with local women on Leicester's tour of Thailand, which was obtained by the \"Sunday Mirror\". The three players apologised for making the video, which included a racial epithet towards the women. Following the outcome of disciplinary proceedings, the three players had their contracts terminated.\n"}
{"id": "50780519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50780519", "title": "Topos V", "text": "Topos V\n\nTopos V, or simply Topos, is a sculpture by the Basque artist Eduardo Chillida, standing at Plaça del Rei in the Gothic Quarter of Barcelona.\n\nPurchased by Barcelona municipality when it was exhibited at Joan Miró Foundation in 1986, the artist itself suggested that the best placement for this sculpture would be Plaça del Rei, where its geometrical shapes, scale, brown color and textures could dialogue with the sober mediaeval architecture surrounding the square, including historical buildings such as Palau Real Major, the Royal chapel of Saint Agatha and Padellàs's House.\n\n\"Topos V\" is cast in iron. Its geometrical shape reproduces a Dihedral angle, closed on two of its sides. The two open sides face the square. In addition, some round shaped forms that could evoke the B, for \"Barcelona\", and medieval arches or windows as well, complete the elements allowing a perfect complementarity between contemporary sculpture and medieval architecture.\n\nIts dimensions are 2.10 × 2.37 × 1.70 metres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1683570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683570", "title": "Victor Goldschmidt", "text": "Victor Goldschmidt\n\nVictor Moritz Goldschmidt (January 27, 1888 in Zürich – March 20, 1947 in Oslo) was a Norwegian mineralogist considered (together with Vladimir Vernadsky) to be the founder of modern geochemistry and crystal chemistry, developer of the Goldschmidt Classification of elements.\n\nGoldschmidt was born in Zürich, Switzerland on January 27, 1888. His father, Heinrich Jacob Goldschmidt, (1857–1937) was a physical chemist at the Eidgenössisches Polytechnikum and his mother, Amelie Koehne (1864–1929), was the daughter of a lumber merchant. They named him Viktor after a colleague of Heinrich, Victor Meyer. His father's family was pure Jewish back to at least 1600 and mostly highly educated, with rabbis, judges, lawyers and military officers among their numbers. As his father's career progressed, the family moved first to Amsterdam in 1893, to Heidelberg in 1896, and finally to Kristiania (later Oslo), Norway in 1901, where he took over the physical chemistry chair at the university. The family became Norwegian citizens in 1905.\nGoldschmidt entered the University of Kristiana (later the University of Oslo) in 1906 and studied inorganic and physical chemistry, geology, mineralogy, physics, mathematics, zoology and botany. He secured a fellowship for his doctoral studies from the university at the age of 21 (1909). He worked on his thesis with the noted geologist Waldemar Christofer Brøgger and obtained his Norwegian doctor’s degree when he was 23 years old (1911). For his dissertation titled \"Die Kontaktmetamorphose im Kristianiagebiet\" (\"The Contact Metamorphism in the Kristiania Region\"), the Norwegian Academy of Sciences awarded him the Fridtjof Nansen award in 1912. The same year he was made Docent (Associate Professor) of Mineralogy and Petrography at the university.\n\nIn 1914 Goldschmidt applied for a professorship in Stockholm and was offered the position. To entice him to stay, the University of Kristiania persuaded the government to establish a Mineralogical Institute with a professorship for him. In 1929 Goldschmidt was appointed the chair of mineralogy in Göttingen, and he hired Reinhold Mannkopff and Fritz Laves as his assistants. However, after the rise of the Nazis to power, he became unhappy with the treatment of non-Aryans like himself (although the university treated him well) and he resigned in 1935 and returned to Oslo.\n\nOn 9 April 1940, the Germans invaded Norway. On October 26, 1942, Goldschmidt was arrested at the orders of the German occupying powers as part of the persecution of Jews in Norway during World War II. Taken to the Berg concentration camp, he became seriously ill and after a stay in a hospital near Oslo, he was released on 8 November, only to be rearrested on 25 November. However, as he was on the pier and about to be deported to Auschwitz, he was freed because some colleagues had persuaded the chief of police that his scientific expertise was essential to the state. Goldschmidt soon fled to Sweden.\n\nGoldschmidt was flown to England on March 3, 1943 by a British intelligence unit, and provided information about technical developments in Norway. After a short period of uncertainty about his future status, he was assigned to the Macaulay Institute for Soil Research (in Aberdeen) of the Agricultural Research Council. He participated in discussions about the German use of raw materials and production of heavy water. He attended open meetings in Cambridge, Manchester, Sheffield, Edinburgh and Aberdeen and lectured at the British Coal Utilisation Research Association on the presence of rare elements in coal ash. His British professional associates and contacts included Leonard Hawkes, C E Tilley and W H Bragg, J D Bernal, Dr W G (later Sir William) Ogg.\n\nGoldschmidt moved from Aberdeen to Rothamsted, where he was popular and nicknamed ‘Goldie’. However, he wanted to go back to Oslo – not welcomed by all Norwegians – and returned there on 26 June 1946, but died soon after, at age 59.\n\nFor his thesis, Goldschmidt studied the Oslo graben, a valley formed by the downward displacement of a block of land along faults on each side. The region had recently been mapped by Brøgger. In the Permian, magmas intruded into the older rocks, heating the surrounding rock. This resulted in mineralogical changes known as contact metamorphism, resulting in a fine-grained class of rocks known as hornfels. Goldschmidt made a systematic study of the hornfels. He showed that, of the minerals to be found in the hornfels, only certain \"associations\" occurred. For example, andalusite could be associated with cordierite but never with hypersthene.\nFrom his data on the hornfels, Goldschmidt deduced a \"mineralogical phase rule\". It is a special case of the Gibb's phase rule for phases in thermodynamic equilibrium with each other, which states that\nwhere is the minimum number of chemical components, is the number of phases, and is the number of degrees of freedom (e.g., temperature and pressure) that can vary without changing or . As an example, the chemical compound AlSiO can occur naturally as three different minerals: andalusite, kyanite and sillimanite. There is a single component (), so if all three minerals coexist (), then . That is, there are no degrees of freedom, so there is only one possible combination of pressure and temperature. This corresponds to the triple point in the phase diagram.\n\nIf the same mineral association is found in several rocks over some region, it must have crystallized at a range of temperatures and pressures. In that case, must have been at least 2, so\nThis expresses Goldschmidt's mineralogical phase rule: the number of phases is no greater than the number of components.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Max von Laue and William L. Bragg showed that X-ray scattering could be used to determine the structures of crystals. In the 1920s and 1930s, Goldschmidt and associates at Oslo and Göttingen applied these methods to many common minerals and formulated a set of rules for how elements are grouped. Goldschmidt published this work in the series \"Geochemische Verteilungsgesetze der Elemente\" [Geochemical Laws of the Distribution of Elements]\".\n\nA textbook, \"Geochemistry\", was edited and published posthumously in England in 1954.\n\nGoldschmidt was created a Knight of the Order of St. Olav in 1929.\n\nWhile at the Macaulay Institute, Goldschmidt was elected a Foreign Member of the Royal Society, given an honorary Doctor of Laws (LLD) by the University of Aberdeen and awarded the Wollaston Medal, the highest honor of the Geological Society of London.\n\nThe mountain ridge Goldschmidtfjella in Oscar II Land at Spitsbergen is named after him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16089858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16089858", "title": "Women in Egypt", "text": "Women in Egypt\n\nThe role of women in Egypt has changed throughout history, from ancient to modern times. From the earliest preserved archaeological records, Egyptian women were considered nearly equal to men in Egyptian society, regardless of marital status. \n\nWomen were stated lower than men when it came to a higher leader in the Egyptian hierarchy counting his peasants. This hierarchy was similar to the way the peasants were treated in the Middle Ages. Despite this equality, women were expected to avoid contact with men who were not kin and to veil themselves in public. As children, females were raised to be solely dependent upon their fathers and older brothers. When women married, they depended on their husbands to make all decisions, while the women themselves were depended upon to carry out household chores.\n\nMarried Egyptian women were expected by their husband's families to bear children, but particularly males. It was common for married couples to continue to reproduce until bearing at least two sons. Barrenness was considered a severe misfortune for Egyptian women, as well as the inability to produce male offspring. Women who had only bore females were given derogatory names, such as \"mothers of brides\". A family with well-grown sons was considered to have decent security. An Egyptian woman was thought to be at the peak of her power when her sons had married because she automatically acquired the control over the newly growing families of her sons.\n\nWomen have traditionally been preoccupied with household tasks and child rearing and have rarely had opportunities for contact with men outside the family. Royal Egyptian women had great impact on Egyptian Society. Queen Tiye, the grandmother of King Tut was so enmeshed in politics that neighboring King Mitanni wrote to her to ensure good will between their people when her son Akhenaten ascended to the throne. Queen Aahmose was awarded the golden flies for military valor.\n\nCleopatra and Nefertiti were among the better known rulers in Egyptian society. Cleopatra was known to have ruled with Marc Antony around 31 BC and she was also the Coregent of her two husband-brothers and her son. Nefertiti was the chief wife of an Egyptian pharaoh, Amenhotep IV. Nefertiti was known to be an active Egyptian woman in society, as well as her children. In addition to female Egyptian rulers, Hatshepsut usurped the throne and reigned in Egypt as pharaoh from about 1503 to 1480 B.C. She based most of Egypt's economy on commerce.\n\nThough not many women have acted as rulers in Egyptian society, they have been considered to be equal among men in status as well as legal opportunities. Women were shown to be allowed the opportunity to take part in the economy, such as their role as merchants, as it happened later in the Roman Empire, specially among the lower classes. Women had also taken part in religious activities, such as those who were priestesses. In the Sixth Dynasty Nebet became a Vizier and thus the first woman in History to fulfill such an office.\n\nWomen could also own property, divorce their husbands, live alone and occupy main positions, mostly religious, in similarity with Assyrian women. Only the children from the Great Royal Wife could expect to succeed to the throne, and if there were no son but daughters by her, then a son by another wife or concubine could only get the throne by marrying the heir daughter, and whoever did so would become the new King. Either through political and/or religious power, some women managed to become, de facto or de jure, the highest office holders in the kingdom, and share a status of co-rulers with men, even being depicted in monuments with the same height as their husbands or otherwise and even as the other Gods of Egypt.\n\nSuch were the cases of Hatshepsut, Nefertiti, Nefertari and the Nubian Egyptian Queens. The further Nubian Queens were able to maintain this status. The most important religious offices of that kind were those of God's Wife and God's Wife of Amun. Politically, they often managed to become Interregnum queens. In the Ptolemaic Dynasty this rise to power was sublimated with the establishment of a coregency system, in which Queens had the same position as Kings and were even powerful enough to obtain in dispute that coregency for themselves.\n\nTo limit women's contact with men as tradition, practices such as veiling and gender segregation at schools, work, and recreation have become common. Furthermore, lower-class families, especially in Upper-Egypt, have tended to withdraw females from school as they reached puberty to minimize their interaction with males. Lower-class men frequently preferred marriage to women who had been secluded rather than to those who had worked or attended secondary school.\n\nThe rule of Gamal Abdul Nasser was characterized by his policy of stridently advocating women's rights through welfare-state policies, labeled as state feminism. Women were guaranteed the right to vote and equality of opportunity was explicitly stated in the 1956 Egyptian constitution, forbidding gender-based discrimination. Labor laws were changed to ensure women's standing in the work force and maternity leave was legally protected. At the same time, the state repressed independent feminist organizations, leaving a dearth of female political representation.\n\nThe economic liberalization plan of the Sadat regime resulted in the collapse of this system and the resurgence of Islamist-influenced policy. While the Nasserist years allowed a wide range of study for women, Sadat's policies narrowed the opportunities available to women. Unemployment for women changed from 5.8% 1960 to 40.7% in 1986. In place of policies to economically support women during pregnancy, women were encouraged to leave work entirely or work part-time.\n\nThe Mubarak years were marked by further erosion of the role of women. Preserved parliamentary seats for women and the 1979 personal status law were repealed in 1987, a new watered-down law taking its place that allowed less power for women in cases of divorce.\n\nThe migration of a large number of Egyptians, mostly men, has also affected the status of Egyptian women. A study by the International Organization for Migration found that two-thirds of migrant household interviewed were headed by a woman in the absence of the male migrant (husband/father). For these households, remittances represented an important source of income, accounting for 43% of their total income. 52% of wives of the migrants independently decided how to spend the money received. In the remaining cases, the head of the household enjoyed a fair deal of autonomy as the decision on how to use the remittance money was reached through mutual consultation between the migrant and the head of the household and only in a few cases (11%) did the migrant decide alone.\n\nA 2010 Pew Research Center poll showed that 45% of Egyptian men and 76% of women supported gender equality. The same poll showed that, in principle, people tend to accept a woman's right to work outside the home, with 61% of the respondents agreeing that \"women should be able to work outside the home\", but at the same time showing some reservations, with only 11% of men and 36% of women completely agreeing with that statement; and 75% agreeing that \"when jobs are scarce, men should have more right to a job\". Polls taken in 2010 and 2011 show that 39% considered gender equality \"very important\" to Egypt's future post-revolution and 54% of Egyptians supported sex segregation in the workplace.\n\nFemale genital mutilation was criminalized in Egypt in 2008. In 2012, UNICEF reported that 91% of Egyptian women and girls 15–49 years old had undergone female genital mutilation. In June 2013 13-year-old Soheir al-Batea died after undergoing FGM. The doctor responsible for the procedure became the first doctor in Egypt to be tried for committing female genital mutilation. On November 20, 2014 he was found not guilty.\n\nThe literacy rate of women (aged 15 and over) is 65.4%, which is lower than that of men which is 82.2% (data from 2015). Egypt is largely rural country, with only 43.1% of the population being urban (in 2015), and access to education is poor in rural areas.\n\nMost women in Egypt have adopted some form of veiling, with a majority of Egyptian women covering at least their hair with the hijab; however covering the face with a niqāb is only practiced by a minority of women (see Niqāb in Egypt).\n\nFamilies are usually of medium size, with the total fertility rate (TFR) being 3.53 children born/woman (2016 estimate). The contraception prevalence rate is high, at 60.3% (in 2008).\n\nIn a 2013 poll of gender experts, Egypt ranked worst for women's rights out of all the Arab states.\n\nIn a 2010 survey of 1,010 women by the Egyptian Center for Women's rights, 98% of foreign women and 83% of native women said they had been sexually harassed in Egypt and two-thirds of men said that they had harassed women. Women who wore conservative attire, an Islamic headscarf or niqab, were also targeted. In 2013, the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women reported that 99.3% of Egyptian women had experienced some form of harassment.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported 91 sexual assaults in four days from 30 June 2013 during the Tahrir Square protests, as well as 19 cases of mob sexual assaults in January. The deputy Middle East director at HRW said that the attacks were \"holding women back from participating fully in the public life of Egypt at a critical point in the country's development.\" On June 4, 2013, a law criminalizing sexual harassment for the first time in modern Egyptian history was approved by then interim president, Adly Mansour.\n\nHonor killings take place in Egypt relatively frequently, due to reasons such as a woman meeting an unrelated man, even if this is only an allegation; or adultery (real or suspected).\n\nFemale genital mutilation (FGM) is widespread in Egypt, with a majority of women having undergone some version of the procedure, although the practice is less common among the youth. The practice is deeply engrained in the culture and predates both Christianity and Islam. Its main purpose is to preserve chastity, though its social function is very complicated. FGM was banned in 2008, but enforcement of the law was weak. In 2016, they tightened the law and made it a felony.\n\nWomen continued to face inadequate protection from sexual and gender-based violence, as well as gender discrimination in law and practice, particularly under personal status laws regulating divorce. A 17-year-old girl died on 29 May, reportedly from haemorrhaging, following female genital mutilation (FGM) at a private hospital in Suez Governorate. Four people faced trial on charges of causing lethal injury and FGM, including the girl’s mother and medical staff as per Amnesty 2016/2017 report.\n\nMarriage was considered a very important part in ancient Egyptian society. Marriage was an almost completely private affair, and as a result, not many records of marriage were kept. Furthermore, not all Egyptian marriages were arranged, rather, most daughters had persuaded their families for their approval towards their future spouses.\n\nEgyptian women who were married were highly acknowledged. It was common for females to marry after the age of menstruation, such as age 14. They were usually considered married after they had left the protection of their father's house. It had also been acknowledged that though the woman became under her spouse's care, her husband did not become her legal guardian and the woman remained independent while controlling her own assets. For the non-royal women in ancient Egypt, the title of wife also came with the title \"Mistress of the House\". \nThe role as a wife included taking care of the household.\n\nEgypt's laws pertaining to marriage and divorce have changed over the years, however they have generally favored the social position of men, although reform continues. Egypt retained the inclusion of Islamic law in dealings of family law, following on from its judicial and administrative independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1874. Muslim husbands were traditionally allowed to have up to four wives at a time in accordance with Islamic religious custom, but a woman could have only one husband at a time. A Muslim man could divorce his wife with ease by saying \"I divorce thee\" on three separate occasions in the presence of witnesses. However, for example in the more strict Hanafi school of family law, a woman could only divorce from her husband in the case of his impotence or by choosing the 'option of puberty'. The first reforms that changed this state of affairs came in the 1920s with Law No.25 of 1920 and 1929. These reforms included the following specifics regarding legitimate grounds for a woman requesting a divorce:\n\n\nThese reforms were possible through the Maliki school of thought, which was more liberal. As suggested by Rifa'a el-Tahtawi, a more progressive attitude towards the rights of women could be achieved whilst remaining within an Islamic framework, by looking to another of the Sunni schools. In 1971 further reforms were made and these even began to include debates about whether or not Shariah law should be included in the new constitution. Dr. Aisha Ratib became Minister of Social Affairs and in November the following revisions were suggested:\n\n\nThe government amended the laws relating to personal status in 1979. The amendments, which became known as the \"women's rights law,\" were in the form of a presidential decree and subsequently approved by the People's Assembly. The leading orthodox Islamic clergy endorsed these amendments, but Islamist groups opposed them as state infringements of religious precepts and campaigned for their repeal. The amendments stated that polygamy was legally harmful to a first wife and entitled her to sue for divorce within a year after learning of her husband's second marriage. The amendments also entitled the first wife to compensation.\n\nA husband retained the right to divorce his wife without recourse to the courts, but he was required to file for his divorce before witnesses at a registrar's office and officially and immediately to inform his wife. The divorced wife was entitled to alimony equivalent to one year's maintenance in addition to compensation equivalent to two years' maintenance; a court could increase these amounts under extenuating circumstances such as the dissolution of a long marriage. The divorced wife automatically retained custody of sons under the age of ten and daughters under twelve; courts could extend the mother's custody of minors until their eighteenth birthdays.\nIn 1985 Egyptian authorities ruled that the amendments of 1979 were unconstitutional because they had been enacted through a presidential decree while the People's Assembly was not in session. A new law reversed many of the rights accorded to women in 1979. A woman lost her automatic right to divorce her husband if he married a second wife. She could still petition a court to consider her case, but a judge would grant a divorce only if it were in the interests of the family. If a divorce were granted, the judge would also determine what was an appropriate residence for the divorced woman and her children.\n\nThe changes in divorce legislation in 1979 and 1985 did not significantly alter the divorce rate, which has been relatively high since the early 1950s. About one in five marriages ended in divorce in the 1980s. Remarriage was common, and most divorced men and women expected to wed again. Seven out of ten divorces took place within the first five years of marriage, and one out of three in the first year. The divorce rate depended on residence and level of education. The highest divorce rates were among the urban lower class, the lowest rates among the villagers of Upper Egypt. Throughout the country, as much as 95 percent of all divorces occurred among couples who were illiterate.\n\nMarital rape is not specifically outlawed in Egypt.\n\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n (Data from 1990.)\n\n\n"}
