{"id": "37970718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37970718", "title": "Alix Pasquet", "text": "Alix Pasquet\n\nAlix Pasquet (unknown–1958) was a World War II fighter pilot, one of only five Haitian members of the Tuskegee Airmen, a soccer star, and a political revolutionary. He was killed while leading a coup attempt against Haitian President François Duvalier in 1958. \n\nIn 1942, Haitian President Élie Lescot implemented an aviation corps program. and chose 3 men out of 42 corps members to receive pilot training in Tuskegee, Alabama. Alix Pasquet, a law graduate of École Millitaire d'Haiti and an officer in the Haitian army at the time, was one of these three chosen officers.\n\nThe U.S. government needed the Haitians to organize a patrol of the Caribbean Sea during World War II and gave the Haitian government six airplanes. These airplanes could carry bombs and could be used to attack German submarines within that area. In February 1943, Pasquet, along with Raymond Cassagnol and Philippe Célestin, traveled from Port-au-Prince to Alabama to begin training at the famed Tuskegee Flight School. The Tuskegee Airmen were renowned for their unmatched record of more than 200 combat missions with few losses. Pasquet's training went through three stages—primary, basic, and advanced—and was extremely rigorous. He was trained by Jimmy Plinton, Jr., who was reputed as one of the best trainers in the Tuskegee Air Force program, over the course of a 7-month program.\n\n\"The Afro-American Newspaper\", one of the most widely circulated black newspapers at that time, ran a feature story on Pasquet, Cassagnol, and Célestin in April 1943, and the trio was noted for their aptitude with the English language. Additionally since Pasquet and his compatriots were from Haiti, they were unfamiliar with the pervasive racial segregation and racism in the American South at that time and were forced ride on Blacks-Only transportation or sit in the back of trains. As a result, they rarely ventured off-campus. Pasquet had a bad case of the flu and lost a month of his training, but ultimately graduated in August 1943 as a member of class 43G.\n\nAfter his distinguished service in World War II, Pasquet returned to Haiti. However, he was exiled in 1957 for supporting Louis Déjoie in the May 1957 Haitian Civil War. From exile in Miami, Pasquet led a political movement to restore stability in his native country and overthrow current ruler François Duvalier. In 1958, he returned to Haiti with Henri Perpignan and Phillipe Dominique as well as five Americans—Arthur Payne, Dany Jones, Levant Kersten, Robert F. Hickey and Joe D. Walker—with the intention of overpowering the capital's army barracks and capturing the ammunition depot within. He gained entry through the barracks' gate by convincing the sentry that he was an officer delivering prisoners, and then quickly seized control of the barracks. However the plot was foiled when an accomplice, Henri Perpignan, sent a prisoner to acquire Haitian-blend cigarettes, who then revealed crucial details to the incumbent government about Pasquet's position.\n\nPasquet was killed during the attempted coup and buried in Port-au-Prince.\n\nPasquet married Denise Etheart and had three sons: Gilbert Pasquet, Alix Pasquet Jr., and Bernard Pasquet.In 1973 his son, Alix, married Michèle Bennett, who later married Francois Duvalier's son, Jean-Claude 'Baby Doc' Duvalier.\n"}
{"id": "25833727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25833727", "title": "Altered level of consciousness", "text": "Altered level of consciousness\n\nAn altered level of consciousness is any measure of arousal other than normal. Level of consciousness (LOC) is a measurement of a person's arousability and responsiveness to stimuli from the environment. A mildly depressed level of consciousness or alertness may be classed as lethargy; someone in this state can be aroused with little difficulty. People who are obtunded have a more depressed level of consciousness and cannot be fully aroused. Those who are not able to be aroused from a sleep-like state are said to be stuporous. Coma is the inability to make any purposeful response. Scales such as the Glasgow coma scale have been designed to measure the level of consciousness.\n\nAn altered level of consciousness can result from a variety of factors, including alterations in the chemical environment of the brain (e.g. exposure to poisons or intoxicants), insufficient oxygen or blood flow in the brain, and excessive pressure within the skull. Prolonged unconsciousness is understood to be a sign of a medical emergency. A deficit in the level of consciousness suggests that both of the cerebral hemispheres or the reticular activating system have been injured. A decreased level of consciousness correlates to increased morbidity (sickness) and mortality (death). Thus it is a valuable measure of a patient's medical and neurological status. In fact, some sources consider level of consciousness to be one of the vital signs.\n\nScales and terms to classify the levels of consciousness differ, but in general, reduction in response to stimuli indicates an altered level of consciousness:\n\nAltered level of consciousness is sometimes described as altered sensorium.\n\nThe most commonly used tool for measuring LOC objectively is the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS). It has come into almost universal use for assessing people with brain injury, or an altered level of consciousness. Verbal, motor, and eye-opening responses to stimuli are measured, scored, and added into a final score on a scale of 3–15, with a lower score being a more decreased level of consciousness.\n\nThe AVPU scale is another means of measuring LOC: people are assessed to determine whether they are alert, responsive to verbal stimuli, responsive to painful stimuli, or unresponsive. To determine responsiveness to voice, a caregiver speaks to, or, failing that, yells at the person. Responsiveness to pain is determined with a mild painful stimulus such as a pinch; moaning or withdrawal from the stimulus is considered a response to pain. The ACDU scale, like AVPU, is easier to use than the GCS and produces similarly accurate results. Using ACDU, a patient is assessed for alertness, confusion, drowsiness, and unresponsiveness.\n\nThe Grady Coma Scale classes people on a scale of I to V along a scale of confusion, stupor, deep stupor, abnormal posturing, and coma.\n\nAlthough the neural science behind alertness, wakefulness, and arousal are not fully known, the reticular formation is known to play a role in these. The ascending reticular activating system is a postulated group of neural connections that receives sensory input and projects to the cerebral cortex through the midbrain and thalamus from the retucular formation. Since this system is thought to modulate wakefulness and sleep, interference with it, such as injury, illness, or metabolic disturbances, could alter the level of consciousness.\n\nNormally, stupor and coma are produced by interference with the brain stem, such as can be caused by a lesion or indirect effects, such as brain herniation. Mass lesions in the brain stem normally cause coma due to their effects on the reticular formation. Mass lesions that occur above the tentorium cerebelli (pictured) normally do not significantly alter the level of consciousness unless they are very large or affect both cerebral hemispheres.\n\nAssessing LOC involves determining an individual's response to external stimuli. Speed and accuracy of responses to questions and reactions to stimuli such as touch and pain are noted. Reflexes, such as the cough and gag reflexes, are also means of judging LOC. Once the level of consciousness is determined, clinicians seek clues for the cause of any alteration. Usually the first tests in the ER are pulse oximetry to determine if there is hypoxia, serum glucose levels to rule out hypoglycemia. A urine drug screen may be sent. A CT head is very important to obtain to rule out bleed. In cases where meningitis is suspected, a lumbar puncture must be performed. A serum TSH is an important test to order. In select groups consider vitamin B12 levels. Checking serum ammonia is not advised.\nA lowered level of consciousness indicate a deficit in brain function. Level of consciousness can be lowered when the brain receives insufficient oxygen (as occurs in hypoxia); insufficient blood (as occurs in shock); or has an alteration in the brain's chemistry. Metabolic disorders such as diabetes mellitus and uremia can alter consciousness. Hypo- or hypernatremia (decreased and elevated levels of sodium, respectively) as well as dehydration can also produce an altered LOC. A pH outside of the range the brain can tolerate will also alter LOC. Exposure to drugs (e.g. alcohol) or toxins may also lower LOC, as may a core temperature that is too high or too low (hyperthermia or hypothermia). Increases in intracranial pressure (the pressure within the skull) can also cause altered LOC. It can result from traumatic brain injury such as concussion. Stroke and intracranial hemorrhage are other causes. Infections of the central nervous system may also be associated with decreased LOC; for example, an altered LOC is the most common symptom of encephalitis. Neoplasms within the intracranial cavity can also affect consciousness, as can epilepsy and post-seizure states. A decreased LOC can also result from a combination of factors.\nA concussion, which is a mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI) may result in decreased LOC.\n\nTreatment depends on the degree of decrease in consciousness and its underlying cause. Initial treatment often involves the administration of dextrose if the blood sugar is low as well as the administration of oxygen, naloxone and thiamine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859789", "title": "Bride burning", "text": "Bride burning\n\nBride burning or bride-burning is a form of domestic violence practiced in countries located on or around the Indian subcontinent. A category of dowry death, bride-burning occurs when a young woman is murdered by her husband or his family for her family's refusal to pay additional dowry. The wife is typically doused with kerosene, gasoline, or other flammable liquid, and set alight, leading to death by fire. Kerosene is most often used as the fuel. It is most common in India and has been a major problem there since at least 1993.\n\nThis crime has been treated as culpable homicide and, if proven, is usually accordingly punished by up to lifelong imprisonment or death. Bride burning has been recognized as an important public health problem in India, accounting for around 2500 deaths per year in the country. In 1995, \"Time\" Magazine reported that dowry deaths in India increased from around 400 a year in the early 1980s to around 5800 a year by the middle of the 1990s. A year later, CNN ran a story saying that every year police receive more than 2500 reports of bride burning. According to Indian National Crime Record Bureau, there were 1948 convictions and 3876 acquittals in dowry death cases in 2008.\n\nA dowry death is the death of a young woman in South Asian countries, primarily India, who is murdered or driven to suicide by her husband. This results from the husband continually attempting to extract more dowry from the bride or her family. Bride burning is just one form of dowry death. Others include acid throwing and Eve teasing. Because dowry typically depends on class or socioeconomic status, women are often subjected to the dowry pressures of their future husband or his relatives.\n\nThere are at least four perspectives on why bride burning came to be and how its existence has prevailed in South Asian nations, as detailed by Avnita Lakhani in her report on bride burning titled “The Elephant in the Room Is Out of Control\". These theories describe practices that contributed to the rise of dowry as a whole, thus ultimately contributing to bride burning.\n\nOne of the more culturally-founded theories suggests that in a highly patriarchal society such as India, a woman’s role is defined from before she is born, which ultimately places her as lesser than men. Because she is seen as a burden and an \"extra mouth to feed\", her status as an economic liability promotes the idea that men, who are considered physical assets, can treat women as subservient. Once a woman marries, she is bound to her husband and his will because “society mandates obedience to her husband\".\n\nAnother theory claims that consumerism, a primarily Western ideal that is newly founded in developing nations, has caused countries like India to become greedy. Because of this, dowry is used as a means to gain a higher socioeconomic status. As status is continually gained, the demand for bridal dowry increases in order to keep moving up the social ladder.\n\nLakhani also suggests that, historically speaking, it has been noted that the dowry system may have been conceived as a way to distinguish Muslim from Hindu culture, creating a further divide within castes. A higher dowry would indicate a higher status and distinction from Islam, thus providing an incentive to demand a larger dowry.\n\nFinally, some scholars argue that the dowry practice came out of British rule and influence in India in order to distinguish \"different forms of marriage\" between castes. When the dowry system was established within the higher castes, the British government sought to reinforce it in the lower castes as a means to eradicate their more ritualised marriages. Such forms of union were discredited until only upper caste marriage systems were recognised.\n\nDr. Ashley K. Jutla, MD and David Heimbach describe bride burning by saying that \"the husband and/or in-laws have determined that the dowry, a gift given from the daughter's parents to the husband, was inadequate and therefore attempt to murder the new bride to make the husband available to remarry or to punish the bride and her family.\" In India, dowry size is a reflection of wealth. The Indian author Rajesh Talwar has written a play on dowry deaths titled 'The Bride Who Would Not Burn.'\n\nIn 1961, the Government of India passed the Dowry Prohibition Act, making the dowry demands in wedding arrangements illegal.\n\nIn 1986, the Indian Parliament added dowry deaths as a new domestic violence crime. According to the new section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code, where a bride \"within 7 years of her marriage is killed and it is shown that soon before her death, she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband, or any relative of her husband, or in connection with any demand for dowry, such death shall be called 'dowry death' and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death.\"\n\nThe offenders can be sentenced for any period, from a minimum of seven years in prison to a maximum of life. Many cases of dowry-related domestic violence, suicides, and murders have been reported. A 1997 report claimed that at least 5000 women die each year because of dowry deaths and at least a dozen die each day in 'kitchen fires' thought to be intentional. About 30 percent of reported dowry deaths result in convictions in courts.\n\nIn Pakistan, the Progressive Women's Association says that 300 women are burned to death each year by their husband's families and that bride burning incidents are sometimes disguised as accidents, such as an 'exploding stove'. According to the Association, doctors say that victims presenting from these accidents have injuries inconsistent with stove burns. According to an Amnesty International report in 1999, although 1600 bride burning incidents were reported, only 60 were prosecuted and, of those, only two resulted in convictions.\n\nIn Pakistan, women including Shahnaz Bukhari have been campaigning for protective legislation against the practice, for established women’s shelters and for hospitals with specialised burn wards. Amnesty International has said that pressure from within, as well as from international human rights groups, may be increasing the level of awareness within the Pakistani government. The BBC estimated that roughly 300 Pakistani brides were burnt to death in 1999.\n\nIn 1988, a survey showed that 800 women were killed in this manner; in 1989, the number rose to 1100, and in 1990 it stood at 1800 estimated killings. Newspapers in Lahore in a six-month period (1997) reported on average 15 attacks a month. According to an estimate by Human Development in South Asia, on average there are 16 cases of bride burnings a month. Women's eNews reported 4000 women attacked in this manner in Islamabad's surroundings over an eight-year period and that the average age range of victims is between 18 and 35 with an estimated 30 percent being pregnant at the time of death. Shahnaz Bukhari has said of such attacks Either Pakistan is home to possessed stoves which burn only young housewives, and are particularly fond of genitalia, or looking at the frequency with which these incidences occur there is a grim pattern that these women are victims of deliberate murder. According to the Progressive Women's Association such attacks are a growing problem and in 1994 on International Women's Day announced that various NGOs would join to raise awareness of the issue.\n\nOccasionally, bride burning happens among resettled Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi communities in other parts of the world, including the United States.\n\nAleyamma Mathew was a registered nurse at a hospital in Carrollton, Texas, who died of burn wounds on 5 April 1992. She and her husband, Mathew Varughese, had immigrated from India two decades before and had three daughters in the United States. The couple had been having marital problems since the late 1980s, which culminated in a fight that led to Aleyamma’s death. She was found by her children, doused in gasoline and covered in flames, dying soon after.\n\nBrief articles were run in the \"Dallas Morning News\" and \"The Atlanta-Journal Constitution\" after the incident, while the \"Dallas Observer\" ran a detailed, nine page article covering Aleyamma’s death. The article faced some criticism for its portrayal of non-Western countries as backward or inappropriate: “Battered by her husband, Aleyamma Mathew remained true to her culture. In the end she became its victim.”\n\nThere are current governmental initiatives to criminalize bride burning and grassroots organizations working to combat the practice, as well as international laws working against human rights violations. Finally, there are many proposed initiatives in place to end bride burning globally.\n\nIn 1961, India enacted the Dowry Prohibition Act, to halt dowry murders. It was amended in the early 1980s to “rectify several inherent weaknesses and loopholes” in order to make it a criminal offense if the husband or his relatives causes a woman to “die of burns or bodily injury or unnatural circumstances within seven years of the marriage and where there is evidence that she suffered cruelty and harassment in connection with the dowry.” Unfortunately, this particular law does not provide a comprehensive definition of dowry, which can change the way it is demanded and delivered. Ultimately, this allowed perpetrators more flexibility in the court of dowry death. The seven-year clause is equally problematic, as it simply allowed husbands to wait until that period ended to burn or otherwise cause the death of their bride.\n\nAnother major Indian law, the 1983 “Anti-Cruelty Statute\", prohibits cruelty towards a wife and subjects the husband and/or in-laws to fines or imprisonment if they inflict cruelty upon the wife. However, the law is equally ambiguous, which results in inadequate enforcement of bride burning and dowry murders.\n\nArticle 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights declares the following: “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” Article 5 proclaims: “No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.”\n\nIn India, where most cases of bride burning are seen, domestic legislation is typically inadequately enforced. Because of this, grassroots organizations “have taken up the cause to halt bride burning\". One example of this is government-funded family counseling center cells, in which the intended goal is to strengthen family ties and reduce legal intervention. However, often such cells only reinforce the stereotype of “women’s sharp tongues” and men’s power to “hit and beat.” Other similar counseling-style NGOs have been developed in order to resolve such issues with similar consequences.\n\nPrimarily, alternative initiatives resolve around reform of current flawed, failing laws. One proposal calls for the expansion of the protection for women under the international refugee law in order to provide asylum to victims of gender discrimination or gendercide. One way this could be achieved would be by including women in the definition of a “persecuted social group”, which would allow their gender to seek international asylum under fear of dowry-related persecution globally.\n\nIn April 1984, European Parliament introduced a proposal that would “protect women from persecution on the basis of gender” by reforming international refugee laws. However, the proposal was rejected.\n\nAnother solution is to increase economic interest for women by establishing their property rights. Even when married, the bride has no rights over the property belonging to the husband while he is living. In giving women the right to own property, women would not need to marry for economic or legal purposes, thus disregarding the dowry practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19637084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19637084", "title": "Chua Beng Huat", "text": "Chua Beng Huat\n\nChua Beng Huat () is a Singaporean sociologist. He is a Provost Professor at the Department of Sociology at National University of Singapore (NUS), and concurrently the Cluster Leader of the Cultural Studies in Asia program at the Asia Research Institute (ARI). Until mid-2015, Chua headed the Department of Sociology at National University of Singapore.\n\nChua did not have an early start in social sciences or humanities. Instead, he studied Biology and Chemistry in his undergraduate years. In the 1960s where college campuses in North America were fertile ground for counterculture, his involvement with student political activities made him realize that he did not have the right personality for natural science. He headed to York University, Toronto, to take up Environmental Studies in 1970. A year later, he switched to Sociology and received a M.A and a PhD.\n\nOn whether his lack of an undergraduate degree in Sociology posed an obstacle in his graduate years, Chua remarked, “Probably it was a blessing in disguise. I think if I had done undergraduate degrees in Sociology, I would have sort of glossed over lots of important theoretical readings, feeling that I already know them. Because I didn’t, I read most of the classic texts during my first year in the M.A program. That probably was foundationally the most important thing that happened. I find that with that kind of grounding substantive fields are fairly easy to take up and put down. After twenty five years, I still think that is true.” \n\nChua’s emphasis on the theoretical over the substantive is evident in his PhD dissertation. Written at a time when an understanding of how reality is socially constructed was just beginning to emerge, he used the Preliminary Report of the Canadian Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism to analyze how government reports are written such that they are demonstrably democratic. It was a phenomenological, ethnomethodological and interpretive piece that exposed mechanisms by which democracy is made visible in texts.\n\n“I could have written on reports on crime or whatever because the substance was not important. The really important issue is the production of democracy textually in government reports because government reports, in whatever field, urban planning or deviance or policing, must not be seen as biased in any particular way. It was the processes, procedures and practices – how to manage information that was coming into the report – that was important to me. Specifically, I was not interested in anything substantive. I was only interested in the practices of how one actually uses the structure of the text so that it would appear to be unquestionably democratic.” Commenting on his dissertation: “One of the interesting things I think most people don’t realize is that those kinds of ethnomethodological work can actually be used for social change. Knowing how reality is put together is to know, at the same time, how it can be deconstructed. If you know how reality is constructed, then you know how it can be changed.” \n\nShortly after his graduate studies, Chua taught at Trent University, Ontario for about seven or eight years. In 1984, the Housing and Development Board (HDB) offered him the Director of Research post. He returned to Singapore and took up the position. He began to stray away from wholly theoretical work and focused on writing critically about Singapore as well, including writing a weekly column in the national newspaper, The Straits Times, for one year. As he explained, “Once I came back to Singapore, to a certain extent, what happens locally politically gets personalized. I feel not just the responsibility but also the right to be critically analytical of a society to which my own life is embedded. In that sense, I kind of changed from being an academic to a more public intellectual; in Canada, I was basically an academic whose concerns are of conceptual and theoretical questions of how to do sociology.” \n\nHis knack for scrutinizing the workings of Singapore society and his insistence on doing so publicly did not go unnoticed. Within a year, he was fired from his job at HDB for his critical writings of Singapore politics. He joined NUS afterward, and has been there since 1985. The turn of events did not make Chua ease up on his public assessments of social reality in Singapore and beyond. In fact, it freed him of the constraint of being a civil servant and his research and writings expanded into more areas.\n\nHis research efforts are focused on three key areas: comparative politics in Southeast Asia, urban and housing planning, and Cultural Studies in Asia.\n\nOne noteworthy work in the area of comparative politics in Southeast Asia is his discussion of communitarian politics. He asserts that liberalism and democracy do not necessarily have to go hand in hand in Asia. With nationhood being a new phenomenon and liberalism lacking deep historical roots in much of Asia, he questioned what other values instead of those of liberalism might be promoted in these regions, and analyzed dynamics that surround construing national ideologies in communitarian terms. In this way, he revealed how social practices in parts of Asia disrupt the global hegemony of liberalism. In \"Communitarian Ideology and Democracy in Singapore\" for instance, a book that radically reoriented the analysis of politics in Singapore, he demonstrated that the undisrupted reign of People’s Action Party (PAP) was based on its ability to develop and maintain a Gramscian sense of ideological hegemony, since the mid-1970s, rather than on authoritarianism. This ideological hegemony had enabled the Party to shift towards the concept of ‘Asian democracy’, an attempt to supplant liberalism with ‘Asian’ communitarism.\n\nIn the area of urban and housing planning, Chua has made inquiries into the uniqueness of public housing in Singapore, with it being neither an investment and consumer good in a free market, nor a social right as in socialist nations. In \"Political legitimacy and Housing: Stakeholding in Singapore\" for example, he shows that the success of its unique public housing system, which guarantees a home for all citizens, is a fundamental contribution to the ideological hegemony and thus legitimacy of the one-party state in Singapore.\n\nBy the mid-1990s, as the capitalist economies in East Asia developed, Chua turned his attention to popular consumer culture. This resulted firstly in editing, \"Consumption in Asia: lifestyles and identities\", a volume in the Routledge New Rich in Asia Series. This was followed by the attention-grabbing neon pink book \"Life is Not Complete without Shopping\". Playfully drawing its title from a 1996 National Day Rally speech by the then Prime Minister of Singapore Goh Chok Tong, this book explored how Singapore’s social reality is constituted in an environment steeped in global consumer imagery. In it, he wrote about bodies, food, clothes and movies, diverse activities like hanging out at the town centre McDonald’s, riding the escalator at Ngee Ann City, a major shopping complex, and looking at price tags at Prada came together as analytical objects.\n\nBy the late 1990s, Chua became increasingly interested in Cultural Studies. He became a founding Co-Executive Editor of the journal Inter-Asia Cultural Studies. With financial support from the Asia Research Institute at National University of Singapore, where he leads the Cultural Studies in Asia Research Cluster, he organized conferences and workshops in related topics and themes. Edited volumes, such as \"Political Elections as Popular Culture\" and \"East Asian Pop Culture: analyzing the Korean Wave\", are results of these workshops. With these organizing and publication efforts, he has helped to develop a research community of scholars who are engaged in analyzing Asian pop music, film and television dramas.\n\nChua is an avid supporter of the arts. He was the Artistic Director of a multi-disciplinary group show SENI in 2004, and served on the Board of Directors for FOCAS, a now-defunct not-for-profit publishing initiative that primarily concerned itself with contemporary art, politics and social change in Singapore and Southeast Asia. Presently, he is on the International Advisory Board for the Asian Film Archive (AFA) and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Temenggong Artists-In-Residence, a centre for artistic exchange and residence in Singapore.\n\nBooks\n2017\n''Liberalism Disavowed: Communitarianism and State Capitalism in Singapore\", NUS Press.\n2012\n\"Structure, Audience and Soft Power in East Asian Pop Culture\", Hong Kong University Press.\n2003\n\"Life is Not Complete without Shopping\", Singapore: Singapore University Press.\n1997\n\"Political Legitimacy and Housing: Stakeholding in Singapore\", London and New York: Routledge.\n1995\n\"Communitarian Ideology and Democracy in Singapore\", London and New York: Routledge.\n\nEdited volumes\n2008\n(with Arndt Graf) P\"ort Cities in Asia and Europe\", London: Routledge.\n(with Koichi Iwabuchi) E\"ast Asian Pop Culture: Analyzing the Korean Wave\", Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press.\n2007\n(with Kuan-Hsing Chen) \"The Inter-Asia Cultural Studies Reader\", London: Routledge.\n\"Elections as Popular Culture in Asia\", New York and London: Routledge.\n2004\n\"Communitarian Politics in Asia\", London and New York: RoutledgeCurzon.\n2000\n\"Consumption in Asia: Lifestyles and Identities\", London and New York: Routledge.\n1999\n\"Singapore Studies II: Critical Survey of the Humanities and Social Sciences\", Singapore: Singapore University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "39839566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39839566", "title": "Commissioner for Older People for Northern Ireland", "text": "Commissioner for Older People for Northern Ireland\n\nThe Commissioner for Older People for Northern Ireland is set up as a non-departmental public body, established by the Commissioner for Older People Act (Northern Ireland) 2011. The Commissioner has a number of legal functions and powers directly linked to the legislation. The Commissioner's office is sponsored by the Executive Office of Northern Ireland. The Commissioner is independent and the principal aim of her office is to safeguard and promote the interests of older people. The current Commissioner for Older People for Northern Ireland is Eddie Lynch.\n\nThe Commissioner's key duties are:\n\nThe law states that the Commissioner may:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1928089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928089", "title": "Conservation status", "text": "Conservation status\n\nThe conservation status of a group of organisms (for instance, a species) indicates whether the group still exists and how likely the group is to become extinct in the near future. Many factors are taken into account when assessing conservation status: not simply the number of individuals remaining, but the overall increase or decrease in the population over time, breeding success rates, and known threats. Various systems of conservation status exist and are in use at international, multi-country, national and local levels as well as for consumer use.\n\nThe IUCN Red List of Threatened Species is the best known worldwide conservation status listing and ranking system. Species are classified by the IUCN Red List into nine groups set through criteria such as rate of decline, population size, area of geographic distribution, and degree of population and distribution fragmentation.\n\nAlso included are species that have gone extinct since 500 AD. When discussing the IUCN Red List, the official term \"threatened\" is a grouping of three categories: critically endangered, endangered, and vulnerable.\n\n\nThe Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) aims to ensure that international trade in specimens of wild animals and plants does not threaten their survival. Many countries require CITES permits when importing plants and animals listed on CITES.\n\nIn the European Union (EU), the Birds and Habitats Directives are the legal instruments that evaluate the conservation status within the EU of species and habitats.\n\nNatureServe conservation status focuses on Latin America, United States, Canada, and the Caribbean. It has been developed by scientists from NatureServe, The Nature Conservancy, and the network of natural heritage programs and data centers. It is increasingly integrated with the IUCN Red List system. Its categories for species include: \"presumed extinct\" (GX), \"possibly extinct\" (GH), \"critically imperiled\" (G1), \"imperiled\" (G2), \"vulnerable\" (G3), \"apparently secure\" (G4), and \"secure\" (G5). The system also allows ambiguous or uncertain ranks including \"inexact numeric ranks\" (e.g. G2?), and \"range ranks\" (e.g. G2G3) for when the exact rank is uncertain. NatureServe adds a qualifier for \"captive or cultivated only\" (C), which has a similar meaning to the IUCN Red List \"extinct in the wild\" (EW) status.\n\nThe Red Data Book of the Russian Federation is used within the Russian Federation, and also accepted in parts of Africa.\n\nIn Australia, the \"Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999\" (EPBC Act) describes lists of threatened species, ecological communities and threatening processes. The categories resemble those of the 1994 IUCN Red List Categories & Criteria (version 2.3). Prior to the EPBC Act, a simpler classification system was used by the \"Endangered Species Protection Act 1992\". Some state and territory governments also have their own systems for conservation status.\n\nIn Belgium, the Flemish Research Institute for Nature and Forest publishes an online set of more than 150 nature indicators in Dutch.\n\nIn Canada, the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada (COSEWIC) is a group of experts that assesses and designates which wild species are in some danger of disappearing from Canada. Under the Species at Risk Act (SARA), it is up to the federal government, which is politically accountable, to legally protect species assessed by COSEWIC.\n\nIn China, the State, provinces and some counties have determined their key protected wildlife species. There is the China red data book.\n\nIn Finland, a large number of species are protected under the Nature Conservation Act, and through the EU Habitats Directive and EU Birds Directive.\n\nIn Germany, the Federal Agency for Nature Conservation publishes \"red lists of endangered species\".\n\nIndia has the Wild Life Protection Act, 1972, Amended 2003 and the Biological Diversity Act, 2002.\n\nIn Japan, the Ministry of Environment publishes a Threatened Wildlife of Japan Red Data Book.\n\nIn the Netherlands, the Dutch Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality publishes a list of threatened species, and conservation is enforced by the Nature Conservation Act 1998. Species are also protected through the Wild Birds and Habitats Directives.\n\nIn New Zealand, the Department of Conservation publishes the New Zealand Threat Classification System lists. threatened species or subspecies are assigned one of seven categories: Nationally Critical, Nationally Endangered, Nationally Vulnerable, Declining, Recovering, Relict, or Naturally Uncommon. While the classification looks only at a national level, many species are unique to New Zealand, and species which are secure overseas are noted as such.\n\nIn Russia, the Red Book of Russian Federation came out in 2001, it contains categories defining preservation status for different species. In it there are 8 taxa of amphibians, 21 taxa of reptiles, 128 taxa of birds, and 74 taxa of mammals, in total 231. There are also more than 30 regional red books, for example the red book of the Altaic region which came out in 1994.\n\nIn South Africa, The South African National Biodiversity Institute, established under the National Environmental Management: Biodiversity Act, 2004, is responsible for drawing up lists of affected species, and monitoring compliance with CITES decisions. It is envisaged that previously diverse Red lists would be more easily kept current, both technically and financially.\n\nIn Thailand, the Wild Animal Reservation and Protection Act of BE 2535 defines fifteen reserved animal species and two classes of protected species, of which hunting, breeding, possession, and trade are prohibited or restricted by law. The National Park, Wildlife and Plant Conservation Department of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is responsible for the regulation of these activities.\n\nIn Ukraine, the Ministry of Environment Protection maintains list of endangered species (divided into seven categories from \"0\" - extinct to \"VI\" - rehabilitated) and publishes it in the Red Book of Ukraine.\n\nIn the United States of America, the Endangered Species Act created the Endangered Species List.\n\nSome consumer guides for seafood, such as Seafood Watch, divide fish and other sea creatures into three categories, analogous to conservation status categories:\n\nThe categories do not simply reflect the imperilment of individual species, but also consider the environmental impacts of how and where they are fished, such as through bycatch or ocean bottom trawlers. Often groups of species are assessed rather than individual species (e.g. squid, prawns).\n\nThe Marine Conservation Society has five levels of ratings for seafood species, as displayed on their \"FishOnline\" website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3239865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239865", "title": "Discharge (sentence)", "text": "Discharge (sentence)\n\nA discharge is a type of sentence where no punishment is imposed, and which (by law in some Commonwealth realms, and arguably in others) vitiates the court's guilty verdict, thus resulting in a non-conviction. \n\nAn absolute discharge is an unconditional discharge where the Court finds that a crime has technically been committed, but that any punishment of the defendant would be inappropriate, and the case is closed. In some jurisdictions, an absolute discharge means there is no conviction on the defendant's record, despite the plea of the defendant.\n\nA conditional discharge is an order made by a criminal court whereby an offender will not be sentenced for an offence unless a further offence is committed within a stated period. Once the stated period has elapsed and no further offence is committed then the conviction may be removed from the defendant's record.\n\nIn Australia, offenders can be discharged with or without being convicted, and with or without being placed on a good behaviour bond (or other conditions). These sentencing options vary from state to state. Note that defendants can be discharged without conviction even if they plead guilty to the alleged crime.\n\nIn Canada, a conditional discharge is a sentence passed in criminal court in which an individual is found guilty of an offence but is deemed not to have been convicted. Although a discharge is not considered a conviction, a record of an absolute or conditional discharge is kept by Canadian Police Information Centre (CPIC) and by the charging police agency and is purged from the individual's police record after a period of time: one year in the case of an absolute discharge, three years for a conditional one. The Criminal Records Act states that, except in exceptional circumstances, if the discharge is conditional, no record may be disclosed after three years. While no conviction occurs, the offender is required to fulfill certain conditions as part of the sentence. The offender is put on probation for a period of up to three years. If the offender fails to meet the conditions of the probation, or commits another criminal offence during the probation period, they may be returned to court where the discharge is cancelled and receive a criminal conviction and sentence on the original offence, and for breach of probation.\n\nIf the conditions of the discharge are met it becomes an absolute discharge.\n\nA court may grant a conditional or absolute discharge only for offences with no minimum penalty, and a maximum penalty of less than fourteen years.\n\nIn New Zealand, offenders can be \"convicted and discharged\" (gets a criminal record, but no other punishment) or \"discharged without conviction\" (no punishment and no criminal record). Note that defendants can be discharged without conviction even if they plead guilty to the alleged crime. This is usually done in cases where the negative impact of a conviction far outweigh the crime committed. For example, if a high-end businessman is caught in possession of a small quantity of marijuana, due to the small nature of the crime compared to the effects a conviction (even without a sentence) would have, he may be discharged without conviction.\n\nIn England and Wales, a conditional discharge is a sentence vitiating the finding of guilt, in which the offender receives no punishment provided that, in a period set by the court (not more than three years), no further offence is committed. If an offence is committed in that time, then the offender may also be re-sentenced for the offence for which a conditional discharge was given. Pursuant section 14 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 and R v Patel [2006] EWCA Crim 2689 the conditional discharge does not constitute a conviction unless the individual breaches the conditional discharge and is re-sentenced.\n\nAbsolute discharge is a lesser sentence imposed by a court, in which no penalty is imposed at all. Exceptionally, however, a court occasionally grants an absolute discharge for a very serious offence. (The signalman in the Thirsk rail crash, who was found guilty of manslaughter, is an example of this.) This usually signifies that while a crime may technically have been committed, the imposition of any punishment would, in the opinion of the judge or magistrates, be inappropriate.\n\nIn both cases, the passing of a discharge does not prevent the court from ordering the defendant to pay compensation to a victim, to pay a contribution towards the prosecution's costs, or to be disqualified from driving. A court may grant a discharge only if it is \"inexpedient to inflict punishment\", and may not do so for certain firearms offences or \"three strikes\" offenders. The law on discharges is set out in sections 12 to 15 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000.\n\nIn 2008, 9,734 offenders were given absolute discharges (0.7% of sentences) and 87,722 offenders were given conditional discharges (6% of sentences).\n\nIn Scots law, there is no conditional discharge similar to that in England and Wales, although admonition has a similar effect with a conviction recorded although there is no punishment. However, section 246 of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 provides that in dealing with cases other than where the sentence is fixed by law (e.g. murder)\n\n\nSection 247 further provides that an absolute discharge shall be deemed not to be a conviction for any purpose other than the purposes of the proceedings in which the order is made and of laying it before a court as a previous conviction in subsequent proceedings for another offence, and shall in any event be disregarded for the purposes of any enactment which imposes any disqualification or disability upon convicted persons, or authorises or requires the imposition of any such disqualification or disability. However, courts can consider previous absolute discharges in the same way as they consider previous convictions.\n\nThe concept of absolute or conditional discharge does not exist, as such, in United States law. However, different jurisdictions within the United States have a variety of analogues. The most direct is the suspended sentence or sentencing to \"time served\", meaning time spent in custody until sentencing. Many or most states also have alternative forms of adjudication for which a defendant may apply. These measures are typically available only to first offenders facing non-felony charges, and typically exclude certain types of charges, depending on the state. Such possibilities often include a guilty plea followed by a special form of probation, upon successful completion of which the public record of the case is sealed and the offender's criminal record expunged.\n"}
{"id": "415247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415247", "title": "Doctrine of chances", "text": "Doctrine of chances\n\nIn law, the doctrine of chances is a rule of evidence that allows evidence to show that it is unlikely a defendant would be repeatedly, innocently involved in similar, suspicious circumstances.\n\nNormally, under Federal Rule of Evidence 404, evidence of other crimes, wrongs, or acts is not admissible to prove the character of a person in order to show action in conformity therewith.\n\nUsing the doctrine of chances allows a prosecutor to admit evidence of prior \"accidents\" that can persuade a jury that prior incidents are so similar that it is very improbable that the case at bar is actually accidental.\n\nThe doctrine of chances was first developed by English courts in the case \"Rex v. Smith\", 11 Cr. App. R. 229, 84 L.J.K.B. 2153 (1915), better known as the \"brides in the bath murder\". In this case the defendant was accused of murdering his wife by drowning her in a bath. The defendant claimed that his wife had fainted in the bath. The prosecutor sought to include evidence in the trial that the defendant's two previous wives had both died in the same way. The evidence was allowed.\n\n"}
{"id": "56302344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56302344", "title": "Evacuation of the Louvre museum art collection during World War II", "text": "Evacuation of the Louvre museum art collection during World War II\n\nDuring the beginning of the German invasions during World War II, Jacques Jaujard, the director of the French Musées Nationaux, foreshadowed the fall of France and decided to organize the evacuation of the Louvre art collection in province.\n\nOn 25 August 1939, the Louvre was closed for 3 days, officially for repairs. However, many of the Louvre art collection was hauled on trucks (203 vehicles transporting 1862 wooden cases) and sent to Château de Chambord. The crates had a marking to identify the importance of the art pieces they contained: a yellow circle for very valuable art pieces, green for major works and red for world treasures (the Mona Lisa was marked with three red circles).\n\nSome of the art pieces were too big to be fit in a truck. For example The Raft of the Medusa had to be covered with a blanket. When the truck initially arrived at Versailles on his route to Chambord, the canvas touched an electric cable and created a short-circuit which switched off the electricity in the whole town. After that, the routes were carefully planned to avoid this type of problems, and attendants which poles were responsible to deal with electric or phone cables.\n\nThe last art piece to leave the museum was the Winged Victory of Samothrace, which was moved on September 3, 1939, the day the French ultimatum to Germany expired.\n\nThroughout the war, the arts pieces were clandestinely moved from chateau to chateau to avoid being taken back by the Nazis. For example, the \"Mona Lisa\" was moved from Chambord to several castles and abbeys, to finish at the end of the war at the Musée Ingres in Montauban.\n\nOn 16 August 1940, count Franz von Wolff-Metternich, who was responsible of the conservation of the French art collections under the Kunstschutz principle, arrived in Paris to oversee France’s art collection, but the museum was almost empty. He knew what was going on but voluntarily did not do anything.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37039349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37039349", "title": "Evaluability assessment", "text": "Evaluability assessment\n\nAn evaluability assessment is...\n\nAn EA is a qualitative investigation employed before a programme is evaluated. Evaluability assessments (EAs) go further than merely providing information of whether a programme can be evaluated or not. They are used to describe the objectives, logic and activities of the programme with an aim to investigate its credibility, feasibility, sustainability and acceptability. EAs address the likelihood of the programme achieving its anticipated outcomes, the required changes needed for optimum management, whether an evaluation can improve the programme’s performance and to identify stakeholder interests in the evaluation and how the findings will be used. According to Jung and Schubert (1983) these specific aspects of a programme need to be address by an EA:\n\nEvaluability assessors form a workgroup which comprises an evaluation representative and a managerial member of the programme. The workgroup investigates official programme records and documentation. In addition, interviews and observations are conducted to understand and describe how the programme is perceived by the programme staff and relevant stakeholders. The workgroup is supervised by a policy group who oversees managerial decisions concerning the impending evaluation of the programme. Jung and Schubert (1983) provide six areas which ought to be addressed in an EA. These include:\n\nAn effective EA requires that workgroups and policy groups collaboratively engage with programme staff and stakeholders. This could be problematic when there are differences or tensions that arise between programme staff and stakeholders, posing a challenge to the EA. \nThurston, Graham, and Hatfield (2003) state that EAs are beneficial since they facilitate programme revisions. It is often found that after an EA, programmes require some modifications as there could be inconsistencies with the logic model or issues concerning implementation. A tension may arise when there are positive unintended outcomes that occur when a programme is poorly designed. How do the evaluability assessors, programme staff and stakeholders manage this difficulty? Is it permissible to allow the problematic programme to operate because of the benefits derived from it, or should the programme be put on hold and reformulated resulting in the end of the positive unintended outcomes?.\n\nEAs are complex and require cooperation from relevant individuals involved in a programme. They are subjective assessments of how credible a programme is. Despite their limitations, EAs are valuable tools to promptly address issues that arise in a programme. If an EA is efficiently conducted on a poorly designed programme, it has the potential to save programme staff and stakeholders time and funding resources that would be otherwise wasted if the programme were to continue operating unaltered.\n"}
{"id": "47981125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47981125", "title": "Fair chase", "text": "Fair chase\n\nFair chase is a term used by hunters to describe an ethical approach to hunting big game animals. North America's oldest wildlife conservation group, the Boone and Crockett Club, defines \"fair chase\" as requiring hunted big game animals to be wild and free-ranging. \"Wild\" refers to an animal that is naturally bred and lives in nature. \"Free-ranging\" means an animal that is not confined by artificial barriers.\n\nFair chase has been the honor code of North American hunters for over a century and the principle underlying many of North American hunting laws, and is taught to new hunters in hunter certification courses.\n\nFair Chase is also a registered trademark of the Boone and Crockett Club.\n\nThe concept and the popularization of the term \"fair chase\" is credited to Theodore Roosevelt and perpetuated by the Boone and Crockett Club, a conservation organization of Roosevelt's creation.\n\nEthics, or a code of conduct, in hunting first emerged centuries ago among European hunters who were primarily the wealthy landowners and royalty. While the commoner hunted to stay alive, the aristocrat hunted for sport, and it was this sporting approach that separated the two. These ethics did not transfer to the majority of immigrants that settled in the New World. Basic human survival and commercial enterprises had no room for a hunting ethic. After two hundred years of the unregulated taking of wildlife by subsistence, recreational, and commercial market hunters, the negative effects were inescapable. By the end of this \"era of extermination\", wildlife and especially big game populations were in dismal condition. Some species had already been lost to extinction and many others were on the brink.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, a sense of pride and accomplishment began to emerge among sportsmen that came with their newly accepted responsibility to conserve. Doing right by the game being hunted meant working with conservation and population recovery efforts, including the creation of the National Wildlife Refuge System. As for the hunt itself, using restraint shifted the emphasis of measuring success from the quantity of game taken to the quality of the chase. The hunting experience became more important than the number killed, and success was now more memorable because the hunting experience became sustainable in the long term.\n\nThe earliest recorded North American usage of the term \"fair chase\" is in the fifth article of the Boone and Crockett Club constitution, adopted in February 1888. At this time in American history, there were no laws governing the talking of game for food or for sport. Water-killing deer (driving deer with hounds or pushers into lakes where hunters waited in boats to either shoot, club, or cut the throats of deer) was also a widespread practice, especially in the Adirondack Mountains.\n\nArticle X of the club’s constitution declared that the killing of game while swimming was an \"offense\" for which a member may be suspended or expelled from the club. Later writings by club members Roosevelt, George Bird Grinnell, and Aldo Leopold articulated the term \"fair chase\" to the public through books and magazine articles. Most notable of these where the club’s Acorn book series on hunting (1893 – 1933), Leopold's \"Sand County Almanac\", and Grinnell’s \"Forest and Stream\" magazine (now \"Field & Stream\").\n\nIn 1893, Roosevelt wrote about hunting and fair chase in his book titled \"The Wilderness Hunter\".\n\nThe history of the teddy bear has a close connection to fair chase. During his presidency in 1902, Roosevelt was in Mississippi to settle a border dispute. His hosts knew Roosevelt was an avid hunter and arranged for a black bear hunt for the president. In the thick brush swamps of Mississippi it was a common practice of the day to hunt bears with hounds. Out of concern for the president's safety, the guides insisted that he stay in camp until a bear was brought to bay by the hounds, and subsequently a small bear was caught and tied to a tree. When Roosevelt arrived at the scene he refused to shoot the defenseless animal.\n\nBeing omitted from the chase was unsettling to Roosevelt, who prided himself in living the hardy life of an outdoorsman—the harder the hunt the better—and he did not earn this bear though a fair pursuit. Political cartoonist Clifford Berryman immediately drew a cartoon depicting Roosevelt refusing to shoot the restrained bear. The story made national headlines and a shopkeeper, Morris Michtom in Brooklyn, New York, had his wife sew a stuffed bear to sell in his store. He wrote Roosevelt asking permission to call the child's toy, Teddy's Bear. Roosevelt gave his permission, and history was made.\n\nWhen in the field, the initial question for every fair chase hunter is whether the animal has a reasonable opportunity to elude the hunter. If the animal does not, the hunt can never be \"fair chase\". For example, a fair chase hunter does not shoot an animal hampered by deep snow or entangled in a barbed-wire fence.\n\nThere are also laws that regulate hunting. Ethical, fair chase hunting therefore begins with obeying game laws. A fair chase hunter must acquaint themselves with the laws that govern hunting, as they reflect considerations for safety, the sustainable use of the wildlife resources, and the minimum level of conduct that the public will tolerate in a particular state, province, region, or country. If something is illegal it cannot, by definition, be fair chase. On the other hand, just because something is legal does not make it fair chase.\n\nThere are certain aspects of fair chase hunting that extend beyond written laws. For example, shooting at a running deer is not illegal, nor are there any laws regarding shooting at extremely long ranges with a firearm or bow. To those who believe in the responsibility to kill quickly and cleanly, taking such risky shots would be unethical. A large part of the time-honored tradition of hunting has to do with the fact that sportsmen police themselves and others both within and beyond the rule of law.\n\n\"Canned shoots\", also known as \"canned hunting\", may be legal in some North American states and provinces, but they are not representative of fair chase. Canned shoots involve the \"pursuit\" and killing of a big game animal kept in or released from captivity to be shot in an artificial hunting situation where a kill is virtually guaranteed.\n\nWhen Internet hunting was introduced in 2005, allowing people to hunt over the Internet using remotely controlled guns, the practice was widely criticized by hunters as violating the principles of fair chase. As a representative of the National Rifle Association (NRA) explained, \"The NRA has always maintained that fair chase, being in the field with your firearm or bow, is an important element of hunting tradition. Sitting at your desk in front of your computer, clicking at a mouse, has nothing to do with hunting.\"\n\nOne hunting club declares that a fair chase shall not involve the taking of animals under the following conditions:\n"}
{"id": "8837864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837864", "title": "Female bonding", "text": "Female bonding\n\nIn ethology and social science, female bonding is the formation of a close personal relationship and patterns of friendship, attachment, and cooperation in females.\nWithin the context of human relationships the definition and display of female bonding can be dependent on multiple factors such as age, sexual orientation, culture, race and marital status. For example, some studies have shown that there is relatively strong female bonding evidence which is shared among single women. It is evident that this particular cohort of women sees each other as lifelong confidants due to the absence of a lifelong commitment to a spouse. Along with this, the lack of commitment allows women to develop and maintain the strong ties between other single female friends.\n\nFemale bonding can be further explored within the human context of relationships within the family. For example, the positive mother-daughter ties which develop have been described to provide immense emotional, financial and instrumental support; indicating that female bonding is present. In an alternative study, a mother described her daughters as \"more like sisters, communicating that equality...was an essential feature of their current relationships. They used the language of companionate ties...\" (Allen, K.R., Blieszner, R., & Roberto, K.A., 2011, 1167)\n\nIn addition to mother-daughter ties, sibling ties can be carefully examined for further exemplification in female bonding. There is much evidence that sister-sister ties are the strongest ties that exist, out of the possible combinations of gendered sibling ties which are shared. In a recent study, an interviewee described her relationship shared with her sister as the most enduring and intimate of her life. (Wells, J., 2009, 1776). This further suggests the emotional sharing which is said to be the primary foundation on which female bonding is founded.\n\nThere has also been evidence within animal context regarding the genetic theory behind female bonding. A study that \"investigated the social network structure of an embayment population of Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins, Tursiops aduncus, ... examined the impact of sex...in maintaining the cohesion of the social network.\" (Wiszniewski, J., Lusseau, D., & Moller, L.M., 2010, 895). The results of this article prove that there was \"greater influence on female[s] than on male social relationships, as association strength was positively correlated with genetic relatedness between females\" (Wiszniewski, J., Lusseau, D., & Moller, L.M., 2010, 895).\n\n\nAllen, K.R., Blieszner, R., & Roberto, K.A.(2011). Perspectives on extended family and fictive kin in later years: Strategies and meanings of kin representation. Journal of Family Issues, 32(9), 1156 – 1177. Retrieved March 21, 2011, from ERIC database.\n\nWells, J., (2009). The Closeness of Sisters: Imagining Cassandra and Jane. The Closeness of Sisters: Imagining Cassandra and Jane. Persuasions: The Jane Austen Journal On-Line, 30(1), 1775 – 1817. Retrieved March 21, 2011, from MLA International Bibliography.\n\nWiszniewski, J., Lusseau, D., & Moller, L.M. (2010). Female bisexual kinship ties maintain social cohesion in dolphin network. Animal Behavior, 80(5), 895 – 904. Retrieved March 21, 2012, from ScienceDirect database.\n\n"}
{"id": "11394359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11394359", "title": "Forest plot", "text": "Forest plot\n\nA forest plot, also known as a blobbogram, is a graphical display of estimated results from a number of scientific studies addressing the same question, along with the overall results. It was developed for use in medical research as a means of graphically representing a meta-analysis of the results of randomized controlled trials. In the last twenty years, similar meta-analytical techniques have been applied in observational studies (e.g. environmental epidemiology) and forest plots are often used in presenting the results of such studies also.\n\nAlthough forest plots can take several forms, they are commonly presented with two columns. The left-hand column lists the names of the studies (frequently randomized controlled trials or epidemiological studies), commonly in chronological order from the top downwards. The right-hand column is a plot of the measure of effect (\"e.g.\" an odds ratio) for each of these studies (often represented by a square) incorporating confidence intervals represented by horizontal lines. The graph may be plotted on a natural logarithmic scale when using odds ratios or other ratio-based effect measures, so that the confidence intervals are symmetrical about the means from each study and to ensure undue emphasis is not given to odds ratios greater than 1 when compared to those less than 1. The area of each square is proportional to the study's weight in the meta-analysis. The overall meta-analysed measure of effect is often represented on the plot as a dashed vertical line. This meta-analysed measure of effect is commonly plotted as a diamond, the lateral points of which indicate confidence intervals for this estimate.\n\nA vertical line representing no effect is also plotted. If the confidence intervals for individual studies overlap with this line, it demonstrates that at the given level of confidence their effect sizes do not differ from no effect for the individual study. The same applies for the meta-analysed measure of effect: if the points of the diamond overlap the line of no effect the overall meta-analysed result cannot be said to differ from no effect at the given level of confidence.\n\nForest plots date back to at least the 1970s. One plot is shown in a 1985 book about meta-analysis.\nThe first use in print of the expression \"forest plot\" may be in an abstract for a poster at the Pittsburgh (US) meeting of the Society for Clinical Trials in May 1996. An informative investigation on the origin of the notion \"forest plot\" was published in 2001. \nThe name refers to the forest of lines produced. In September 1990, Richard Peto joked that the plot was named after a breast cancer researcher called Pat Forrest and as a result the name has sometimes been spelled \"forrest plot\".\n\nThis blobbogram is from an iconic medical review; it shows clinical trials of the use of corticosteroids to hasten lung development in pregnancies where a baby is likely to be born prematurely. Long \"after\" there was enough evidence to show that this treatment saved babies' lives, the evidence was not widely known and the treatment was not widely used. After a systematic review made the evidence better-known, the treatment was used more, preventing thousands of pre-term babies from dying of infant respiratory distress syndrome. However, when the treatment was rolled out in lower- and middle-income countries, it was found that more pre-term babies died. It is thought that this may be because of the higher risk of infection, which is more likely to kill a baby in places with lower-quality medical care. The current version of the medical review states that there is \"little need\" for further research into the usefulness of the treatment in higher-income countries, but further research is needed on how best to treat lower-income and higher-risk mothers, and optimal dosage.\n\nStudies included in the meta-analysis and incorporated into the forest plot will generally be identified in chronological order on the left hand side by author and date. There is no significance given to the vertical position assumed by a particular study.\n\nThe chart portion of the forest plot will be on the right hand side and will indicate the mean difference in effect between the test and control groups in the studies. A more precise rendering of the data shows up in number form in the text of each line, while a somewhat less precise graphic representation shows up in chart form on the right. The vertical line (y-axis) indicates no effect. The horizontal distance of a box from the y-axis demonstrates the difference between the test and control (the experimental data with control data subtracted out) in relation to no observable effect, otherwise known as the magnitude of the experimental effect.\n\nThe thin horizontal lines—sometimes referred to as whiskers—emerging from the box indicate the magnitude of the confidence interval. The longer the lines, the wider the confidence interval, and the less reliable the data. The shorter the lines, the narrower the confidence interval and the more reliable the data.\n\nIf either the box or the confidence interval whiskers pass through the y-axis of no effect, the study data is said to be statistically insignificant.\n\nThe meaningfulness of the study data, or power, is indicated by the weight (size) of the box. More meaningful data, such as those from studies with greater sample sizes and smaller confidence intervals, is indicated by a larger sized box than data from less meaningful studies, and they contribute to the pooled result to a greater degree.\n\nThe forest plot is able to demonstrate the degree to which data from multiple studies observing the same effect overlap with one another. Results that fail to overlap well are termed heterogeneous and is referred to as the heterogeneity of the data—such data is less conclusive. If the results are similar between various studies, the data is said to be homogeneous, and the tendency is for these data to be more conclusive.\n\nThe heterogeneity is indicated by the I. A heterogeneity of less than 50% is termed low, and indicates a greater degree of similarity between study data than an I value above 50%, which indicates more dissimilarity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52180242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52180242", "title": "Frances Freeborn Pauley", "text": "Frances Freeborn Pauley\n\nFrances Freeborn Pauley (1905-2003) was a southern civil rights activist in Georgia, who battled against racial injustice and discrimination throughout her life. Due to her actions in the civil rights movement, she led to the eventual desegregation and integration of African Americans in the south.\n\nPauley was born on September 11, 1905, in Wadsworth Ohio. She was born to William Freeborn and Josephine Andrews Freeborn. Pauley's only sibling was her brother William Elbridge Freeborn. In 1908 at the age of three, Pauley moved with her family to Decatur, Georgia in DeKalb County. Pauley attended Decatur High School for her primary education, following onto Agnes Scott College. Pauley graduated in 1927 with a degree of Mathematics. At that time, due to the upbringing in both the Mid-west and the South, Pauley adopted a dual identity growing up.\n\nPauley began to work in public service during the Great Depression. She formed a church group with other women that worked to provide food and services to the impoverished citizens of DeKalb County. Her organization raised money to provide lunches to all students in public schools in the county. Pauley continued to work to provide services for those that did not have access to basic care, setting up a medical clinic in Decatur. Pauley was a prominent voice in her community in advocating for racial integration. As president of the League of Women Voters she repealed bylaws that restricted membership to only white women.\n\nPauley gathered support from other politicians and activists in the area, including Martin Luther King Jr. and became the executive director of the Georgia Council on Human relations in 1960 where she continued to work for further integration of schools and began to advocate for community organizations that encouraged participation and cooperation between citizens of differing races.\n\nPauley was then appointed to the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare in 1968 where she worked and advocated for the continued desegregation and protection of schools in Georgia and across the country. Pauley served in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare until 1973 when officially retired.\n\nThroughout her activism career, Pauley held many positions which resulted in her having a crucial role in the civil rights movement. These positions include: President of the DeKalb County League of Women Voters, President of the Georgia chapter of the League of Women Voters, Head of Georgia Council on Human Relations, and working as an administrator in Office of Civil Rights of the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare. The culmination of these positions resulted in Frances Freeborn Pauley cementing her legacy as an influential individual in the southern civil rights moment. In every position which she held, Pauley attempted to promote equality and actively attempted to integrate African Americans into the structure of the institution. She was posthumously inducted into the Georgia Women of Achievement in 2015.\n\nAfter Graduation from Agnes Scott College in 1927 with a degree in mathematics, Pauley proceeded to assist in theatrical productions throughout DeKalb County as well as Atlanta, Georgia. Whilst directing a play at St. Philip's Episcopal Church, Frances Freeborn Pauley met a landscape architect by the name of William Crooks Pauley. This encounter resulted in their eventual marriage on May 25, 1930. Frances and William Pauley remained married throughout the extent of their lives and served as the parents to two daughters, Joan Pauley Lamb, and Marylin Pauley Beittel.\n"}
{"id": "47862627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47862627", "title": "Grounding (metaphysics)", "text": "Grounding (metaphysics)\n\nGrounding is a topic in metaphysics. One thing is sometimes said to \"ground\" another when the first in some way accounts for the being of the second. For example, it is sometimes claimed that facts about physical particles ground facts about larger objects.\n\n"}
{"id": "34156477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34156477", "title": "Heterogony of ends", "text": "Heterogony of ends\n\nThe \"heterogony of ends\" is a famous expression formulated in 1886 by German psychologist Wilhelm Wundt, to denote the phenomenon of how goal-directed activity often cause experiences that modify the original motivational pattern.\n\nThis principle is exemplified in the emergence of new motives during the course of a chain of activities.\nFor example, one may accept the invitation of a\nfriend to attend an art show. Initially, the motive is simply the anticipation of a pleasant evening in good friendship, but in the course of the evening, one encounters a highly desirable work of art and wishes to purchase it. A whole new set of motives now enters the picture and now exist alongside and in addition to the\noriginal motive. The Heterogeny of Ends formulates that an ongoing behavioral sequence must often be understood in terms of ever-shifting patterns of primary and secondary goals. Another example would be how cat chasing a mouse may suddenly find it necessary to compete with a partner, overcome an unexpected barrier, or avoid a danger. Ends, goals, and purposes keep changing.\n\nThe original German expression was \"Heterogonie der Zwecke,\" variously translated in English as heterogony/heterogeneity/heterogenesis of ends/goals/purposes. It was first formulated by Wundt in 1886, in his book \"Ethics\".\n\nItalian philosopher Giambattista Vico is sometimes credited as having anticipated and influenced Wundt's idea.\n"}
{"id": "573937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573937", "title": "History of feminism", "text": "History of feminism\n\nThe history of feminism comprises the narratives (chronological or thematic) of the movements and ideologies which have aimed at equal rights for women. While feminists around the world have differed in causes, goals, and intentions depending on time, culture, and country, most Western feminist historians assert that all movements that work to obtain women's rights should be considered feminist movements, even when they did not (or do not) apply the term to themselves. Some other historians limit the term \"feminist\" to the modern feminist movement and its progeny, and use the label \"protofeminist\" to describe earlier movements.\n\nModern Western feminist history is conventionally split into three time periods, or \"waves\", each with slightly different aims based on prior progress:\n\n\nAlthough the \"waves\" construct has been commonly used to describe the history of feminism, the concept has also been criticized for ignoring and erasing the history between the \"waves\", by choosing to focus solely on a few famous figures and on popular events.\n\nPeople and activists who discuss or advance women's equality prior to the existence of the feminist movement are sometimes labeled as \"protofeminist\". Some scholars criticize this term because they believe it diminishes the importance of earlier contributions or that feminism does not have a single, linear history as implied by terms such as \"protofeminist\" or \"postfeminist\".\n\nAround 24 centuries ago, Plato, according to Elaine Hoffman Baruch, \"[argued] for the total political and sexual equality of women, advocating that they be members of his highest class, ... those who rule and fight\".\n\nItalian-French writer Christine de Pizan (1364 – c. 1430), the author of \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" and \"Epître au Dieu d'Amour\" (\"Epistle to the God of Love\") is cited by Simone de Beauvoir as the first woman to denounce misogyny and write about the relation of the sexes. Other early feminist writers include Heinrich Cornelius Agrippa and Modesta di Pozzo di Forzi, who worked in the 16th century, and the 17th-century writers Hannah Woolley in England, Juana Inés de la Cruz in Mexico, Marie Le Jars de Gournay, Anne Bradstreet, and François Poullain de la Barre.\n\nOne of the most important 17th-century feminist writers in the English language was Margaret Cavendish, Duchess of Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Her knowledge was recognized by some, such as proto-feminist Bathsua Makin, who wrote that \"The present Dutchess of New-Castle, by her own Genius, rather than any timely Instruction, over-tops many grave Grown-Men,\" and considered her a prime example of what women could become through education.\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment was characterized by secular intellectual reasoning and a flowering of philosophical writing. Many Enlightenment philosophers defended the rights of women, including Jeremy Bentham (1781), Marquis de Condorcet (1790), and Mary Wollstonecraft (1792). Other important writers of the time that expressed feminist views included Abigail Adams, Catharine Macaulay, and Hedvig Charlotta Nordenflycht.\n\nThe English utilitarian and classical liberal philosopher Jeremy Bentham said that it was the placing of women in a legally inferior position that made him choose the career of a reformist at the age of eleven. Bentham spoke for complete equality between sexes including the rights to vote and to participate in government. He opposed the asymmetrical sexual moral standards between men and women.\n\nIn his \"Introduction to the Principles of Morals and Legislation\" (1781), Bentham strongly condemned many countries' common practice to deny women's rights due to allegedly inferior minds. Bentham gave many examples of able female regents.\n\nNicolas de Condorcet was a mathematician, classical liberal politician, leading French Revolutionary, republican, and Voltairean anti-clericalist. He was also a fierce defender of human rights, including the equality of women and the abolition of slavery, unusual for the 1780s. He advocated for women's suffrage in the new government in 1790 with \"De l'admission des femmes au droit de cité\" (\"For the Admission to the Rights of Citizenship For Women\") and an article for \"Journal de la Société de 1789\".\n\nFollowing de Condorcet's repeated, yet failed, appeals to the National Assembly in 1789 and 1790, Olympe de Gouges (in association with the Society of the Friends of Truth) authored and published the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\" in 1791. This was another plea for the French Revolutionary government to recognize the natural and political rights of women. De Gouges wrote the \"Declaration\" in the prose of the \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen\", almost mimicking the failure of men to include more than a half of the French population in \"egalité\". Even though,the \"Declaration\" did not immediately accomplish its goals, it did set a precedent for a manner in which feminists could satirize their governments for their failures in equality, seen in documents such as \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" and \"A Declaration of Sentiments\".\n\nPerhaps the most cited feminist writer of the time was Mary Wollstonecraft, often characterized as the first feminist philosopher. \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792) is one of the first works that can unambiguously be called feminist, although by modern standards her comparison of women to the nobility, the elite of society (coddled, fragile, and in danger of intellectual and moral sloth) may at first seem dated as a feminist argument. Wollstonecraft identified the education and upbringing of women as creating their limited expectations based on a self-image dictated by the typically male perspective. Despite her perceived inconsistencies (Miriam Brody referred to the \"Two Wollstonecrafts\") reflective of problems that had no easy answers, this book remains a foundation stone of feminist thought.\n\nWollstonecraft believed that both genders contributed to inequality. She took women's considerable power over men for granted, and determined that both would require education to ensure the necessary changes in social attitudes. Given her humble origins and scant education, her personal achievements speak to her own determination. Wollstonecraft attracted the mockery of Samuel Johnson, who described her and her ilk as \"Amazons of the pen\". Based on his relationship with Hester Thrale, he complained of women's encroachment onto a male territory of writing, and not their intelligence or education. For many commentators, Wollstonecraft represents the first codification of equality feminism, or a refusal of the feminine role in society.\n\n19th-century feminists reacted to cultural inequities including the pernicious, widespread acceptance of the Victorian image of women's \"proper\" role and \"sphere.\" The Victorian ideal created a dichotomy of \"separate spheres\" for men and women that was very clearly defined in theory, though not always in reality. In this ideology, men were to occupy the public sphere (the space of wage labor and politics) and women the private sphere (the space of home and children.) This \"feminine ideal,\" also called \"The Cult of Domesticity,\" was typified in Victorian conduct books such as \"Mrs Beeton's Book of Household Management\" and Sarah Stickney Ellis's books. \"The Angel in the House\" (1854) and \"El ángel del hogar\", bestsellers by Coventry Patmore and Maria del Pilar Sinués de Marco, came to symbolize the Victorian feminine ideal. Queen Victoria herself disparaged the concept of feminism, which she described in private letters as the \"mad, wicked folly of 'Woman's Rights'\"\".\n\nAs Jane Austen addressed women's restricted lives in the early part of the century, Charlotte Brontë, Anne Brontë, Elizabeth Gaskell, and George Eliot depicted women's misery and frustration. In her autobiographical novel \"\" (1854), American journalist Fanny Fern describes her own struggle to support her children as a newspaper columnist after her husband's untimely death. Louisa May Alcott penned a strongly feminist novel, \"A Long Fatal Love Chase\" (1866), about a young woman's attempts to flee her bigamist husband and become independent.\n\nMale authors also recognized injustices against women. The novels of George Meredith, George Gissing, and Thomas Hardy, and the plays of Henrik Ibsen outlined the contemporary plight of women. Meredith's \"Diana of the Crossways\" (1885) is an account of Caroline Norton's life. One critic later called Ibsen's plays \"feministic propaganda\".\n\nAt the outset of the 19th century, the dissenting feminist voices had little to no social influence. There was little sign of change in the political or social order, nor any evidence of a recognizable women's movement. Collective concerns began to coalesce by the end of the century, paralleling the emergence of a stiffer social model and code of conduct that Marion Reid described as confining and repressive for women. While the increased emphasis on feminine virtue partly stirred the call for a woman's movement, the tensions that this role caused for women plagued many early-19th-century feminists with doubt and worry, and fueled opposing views.\n\nIn Scotland, Reid published her influential \"A Plea for Woman\" in 1843, which proposed a transatlantic Western agenda for women's rights, including voting rights for women.\n\nCaroline Norton advocated for changes in British law. She discovered a lack of legal rights for women upon entering an abusive marriage. The publicity generated from her appeal to Queen Victoria and related activism helped change English laws to recognize and accommodate married women and child custody issues.\n\nWhile many women including Norton were wary of organized movements, their actions and words often motivated and inspired such movements. Among these was Florence Nightingale, whose conviction that women had all the potential of men but none of the opportunities impelled her storied nursing career. At the time, her feminine virtues were emphasized over her ingenuity, an example of the bias against acknowledging female accomplishment in the mid-1800s.\n\nDue to varying ideologies, feminists were not always supportive of each other's efforts. Harriet Martineau and others dismissed Wollstonecraft's contributions as dangerous, and deplored Norton's candidness, but seized on the abolitionist campaign that Martineau had witnessed in the United States as one that should logically be applied to women. Her \"Society in America\" was pivotal: it caught the imagination of women who urged her to take up their cause.\nAnna Wheeler was influenced by Saint Simonian socialists while working in France. She advocated for suffrage and attracted the attention of Benjamin Disraeli, the Conservative leader, as a dangerous radical on a par with Jeremy Bentham. She would later inspire early socialist and feminist advocate William Thompson, who wrote the first work published in English to advocate full equality of rights for women, the 1825 \"Appeal of One Half of the Human Race\".\n\nFeminists of previous centuries charged women's exclusion from education as the central cause for their domestic relegation and denial of social advancement, and women's 19th-century education was no better. Frances Power Cobbe, among others, called for education reform, an issue that gained attention alongside marital and property rights, and domestic violence.\n\nFemale journalists like Martineau and Cobbe in Britain, and Margaret Fuller in America, were achieving journalistic employment, which placed them in a position to influence other women. Cobbe would refer to \"Woman's Rights\" not just in the abstract, but as an identifiable cause.\n\nBarbara Leigh Smith and her friends met regularly during the 1850s in London's Langham Place to discuss the united women's voice necessary for achieving reform. These \"Ladies of Langham Place\" included Bessie Rayner Parkes and Anna Jameson. They focused on education, employment, and marital law. One of their causes became the Married Women's Property Committee of 1855. They collected thousands of signatures for legislative reform petitions, some of which were successful. Smith had also attended the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention in America.\n\nSmith and Parkes, together and apart, wrote many articles on education and employment opportunities. In the same year as Norton, Smith summarized the legal framework for injustice in her 1854 \"A Brief Summary of the Laws of England concerning Women\". She was able to reach large numbers of women via her role in the \"English Women's Journal\". The response to this journal led to their creation of the Society for Promoting the Employment of Women (SPEW). Smith's Married Women's Property committee collected 26,000 signatures to change the law for all women, including those unmarried.\n\nHarriet Taylor published her \"Enfranchisement\" in 1851, and wrote about the inequities of family law. In 1853, she married John Stuart Mill, and provided him with much of the subject material for \"The Subjection of Women\".\n\nEmily Davies also encountered the Langham group, and with Elizabeth Garrett created SPEW branches outside London.\n\nThe interrelated barriers to education and employment formed the backbone of 19th-century feminist reform efforts, for instance, as described by Harriet Martineau in her 1859 \"Edinburgh Journal\" article, \"Female Industry\". These barriers did not change in conjunction with the economy. Martineau, however, remained a moderate, for practical reasons, and unlike Cobbe, did not support the emerging call for the vote.\n\nThe education reform efforts of women like Davies and the Langham group slowly made inroads. Queen's College (1848) and Bedford College (1849) in London began to offer some education to women from 1848. By 1862, Davies established a committee to persuade the universities to allow women to sit for the recently established Local Examinations, and achieved partial success in 1865. She published \"The Higher Education of Women\" a year later. Davies and Leigh Smith founded the first higher educational institution for women and enrolled five students. The school later became Girton College, Cambridge in 1869, Newnham College, Cambridge in 1871, and Lady Margaret Hall at Oxford in 1879. Bedford began to award degrees the previous year. Despite these measurable advances, few could take advantage of them and life for female students was still difficult.\n\nIn the 1883 Ilbert Bill controversy, a British India bill that proposed Indian judicial jurisdiction to try British criminals, Bengali women in support of the bill responded by claiming that they were more educated than the English women opposed to the bill, and noted that more Indian women had degrees than British women at the time.\n\nAs part of the continuing dialogue between British and American feminists, Elizabeth Blackwell, one of the first American women to graduate in medicine (1849), lectured in Britain with Langham support. She eventually took her degree in France. Garrett's very successful 1870 campaign to run for London School Board office is another example of a how a small band of very determined women were beginning to reach positions of influence at the local government level.\n\nCampaigns gave women opportunities to test their new political skills and to conjoin disparate social reform groups. Their successes include the campaign for the Married Women's Property Act (passed in 1882) and the campaign to repeal the Contagious Diseases Acts of 1864, 1866, and 1869, which united women's groups and utilitarian liberals like John Stuart Mill.\n\nGenerally, women were outraged by the inherent inequity and misogyny of the legislation. For the first time, women in large numbers took up the rights of prostitutes. Prominent critics included Blackwell, Nightingale, Martineau, and Elizabeth Wolstenholme. Elizabeth Garrett, unlike her sister, Millicent, did not support the campaign, though she later admitted that the campaign had done well.\n\nJosephine Butler, already experienced in prostitution issues, a charismatic leader, and a seasoned campaigner, emerged as the natural leader of what became the Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts in 1869. Her work demonstrated the potential power of an organized lobby group. The association successfully argued that the Acts not only demeaned prostitutes, but all women and men by promoting a blatant sexual double standard. Butler's activities resulted in the radicalization of many moderate women. The Acts were repealed in 1886.\n\nOn a smaller scale, Annie Besant campaigned for the rights of matchgirls (female factory workers) and against the appalling conditions under which they worked in London. Her work of publicizing the difficult conditions of the workers through interviews in bi-weekly periodicals like The Link became a method for raising public concern over social issues.\n\nFeminists did not recognize separate waves of feminism until the second wave was so named by journalist Martha Lear, according to Jennifer Baumgardner. Baumgardner reports criticism by professor Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz of the division into waves and the difficulty of categorizing some feminists into specific waves, argues that the main critics of a wave are likely to be members of the prior wave who remain vital, and that waves are coming faster. The \"waves debate\" has influenced how historians and other scholars have established the chronologies of women's political activism.\n\nThe 19th- and early 20th-century feminist activity in the English-speaking world that sought to win women's suffrage, female education rights, better working conditions, and abolition of gender double standards is known as first-wave feminism. The term \"first-wave\" was coined retrospectively when the term \"second-wave feminism\" was used to describe a newer feminist movement that fought social and cultural inequalities beyond basic political inequalities.\nIn the United States, feminist movement leaders campaigned for the national abolition of slavery and Temperance before championing women's rights. American first-wave feminism involved a wide range of women, some belonging to conservative Christian groups (such as Frances Willard and the Woman's Christian Temperance Union), others resembling the diversity and radicalism of much of second-wave feminism (such as Stanton, Anthony, Matilda Joslyn Gage, and the National Woman Suffrage Association, of which Stanton was president). First-wave feminism in the United States is considered to have ended with the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution (1920), which granted white women the right to vote in the United States.\n\nActivism for the equality of women was not limited to the United States. In mid-nineteenth century Persia, Táhirih was active as a poet and religious reformer, and is recorded as proclaiming the equality of women at her execution. She inspired later generations of Iranian feminists. Louise Dittmar campaigned for women's rights, in Germany, in the 1840s. Although slightly later in time, Fusae Ichikawa was in the first wave of women's activists in her own country of Japan, campaigning for women's suffrage. Mary Lee was active in the suffrage movement in South Australia, the first Australian colony to grant women the vote in 1894. In New Zealand, Kate Sheppard and Mary Ann Müller worked to achieve the vote for women by 1893.\nIn the United States, the antislavery campaign of the 1830s served as both a cause ideologically compatible with feminism and a blueprint for later feminist political organizing. Attempts to exclude women only strengthened their convictions. Sarah and Angelina Grimké moved rapidly from the emancipation of slaves to the emancipation of women. The most influential feminist writer of the time was the colourful journalist Margaret Fuller, whose \"Woman in the Nineteenth Century\" was published in 1845. Her dispatches from Europe for the \"New York Tribune\" helped create to synchronize the women's rights movement.\n\nElizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucretia Mott met in 1840 while en route to London where they were shunned as women by the male leadership of the first World's Anti-Slavery Convention. In 1848, Mott and Stanton held a woman's rights convention in Seneca Falls, New York, where a declaration of independence for women was drafted. Lucy Stone helped to organize the first National Women's Rights Convention in 1850, a much larger event at which Sojourner Truth, Abby Kelley Foster, and others spoke sparked Susan B. Anthony to take up the cause of women's rights. In December 1851, Sojourner Truth contributed to the feminist movement when she spoke at the Women’s Convention in Akron, Ohio. She delivered her powerful “Ain’t I a Woman” speech in an effort to promote women’s rights by demonstrating their ability to accomplish tasks that have been traditionally associated with men. Barbara Leigh Smith met with Mott in 1858, strengthening the link between the transatlantic feminist movements.\n\nStanton and Matilda Joslyn Gage saw the Church as a major obstacle to women's rights, and welcomed the emerging literature on matriarchy. Both Gage and Stanton produced works on this topic, and collaborated on \"The Woman's Bible\". Stanton wrote \"The Matriarchate or Mother-Age\" and Gage wrote \"Woman, Church and State\", neatly inverting Johann Jakob Bachofen's thesis and adding a unique epistemological perspective, the critique of objectivity and the perception of the subjective.\n\nStanton once observed regarding assumptions of female inferiority, \"The worst feature of these assumptions is that women themselves believe them\". However this attempt to replace androcentric (male-centered) theological tradition with a gynocentric (female-centered) view made little headway in a women's movement dominated by religious elements; thus she and Gage were largely ignored by subsequent generations.\n\nBy 1913, Feminism (originally capitalized) was a household term in the United States. Major issues in the 1910s and 1920s included suffrage, women's partisan activism, economics and employment, sexualities and families, war and peace, and a Constitutional amendment for equality. Both equality and difference were seen as routes to women's empowerment. Organizations at the time included the National Woman's Party, suffrage advocacy groups such as the National American Woman Suffrage Association and the National League of Women Voters, career associations such as the American Association of University Women, the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, and the National Women's Trade Union League, war and peace groups such as the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom and the International Council of Women, alcohol-focused groups like the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and the Women's Organization for National Prohibition Reform, and race- and gender-centered organizations like the National Association of Colored Women. Leaders and theoreticians included Jane Addams, Ida B. Wells-Barnett, Alice Paul, Carrie Chapman Catt, Margaret Sanger, and Charlotte Perkins Gilman.\n\nThe women's right to vote, with its legislative representation, represented a paradigm shift where women would no longer be treated as second-class citizens without a voice. The women's suffrage campaign is the most deeply embedded campaign of the past 250 years.\n\nAt first, suffrage was treated as a lower priority. The French Revolution accelerated this, with the assertions of Condorcet and de Gouges, and the women who led the 1789 march on Versailles. In 1793, the Society of Revolutionary Republican Women was founded, and originally included suffrage on its agenda before it was suppressed at the end of the year. As a gesture, this showed that issue was now part of the European political agenda.\n\nGerman women were involved in the Vormärz, a prelude to the 1848 revolution. In Italy, Clara Maffei, Cristina Trivulzio Belgiojoso, and Ester Martini Currica were politically active in the events leading up to 1848. In Britain, interest in suffrage emerged from the writings of Wheeler and Thompson in the 1820s, and from Reid, Taylor, and Anne Knight in the 1840s. While New Zealand was the first sovereign state where women won the right to vote (1893), they did not win the right to stand in elections until later. The Australian State of South Australia was the first sovereign state in the world to officially grant full suffrage to women (1894).\n\nThe Langham Place ladies set up a suffrage committee at an 1866 meeting at Elizabeth Garrett's home, renamed the London Society for Women's Suffrage in 1867. Soon similar committees had spread across the country, raising petitions, and working closely with John Stuart Mill. When denied outlets by establishment periodicals, feminists started their own, such as Lydia Becker's \"Women's Suffrage Journal\" in 1870.\n\nOther publications included Richard Pankhurst's \"Englishwoman's Review\" (1866). Tactical disputes were the biggest problem, and the groups' memberships fluctuated. Women considered whether men (like Mill) should be involved. As it went, Mill withdrew as the movement became more aggressive with each disappointment. The political pressure ensured debate, but year after year the movement was defeated in Parliament.\n\nDespite this, the women accrued political experience, which translated into slow progress at the local government level. But after years of frustration, many women became increasingly radicalized. Some refused to pay taxes, and the Pankhurst family emerged as the dominant movement influence, having also founded the Women's Franchise League in 1889, which sought local election suffrage for women.\n\nThe Isle of Man, a UK dependency, was the first free standing jurisdiction to grant women the vote (1881), followed by the right to vote (but not to stand) in New Zealand in 1893, where Kate Sheppard had pioneered reform. Some Australian states had also granted women the vote. This included Victoria for a brief period (1863–5), South Australia (1894), and Western Australia (1899). Australian women received the vote at the Federal level in 1902, Finland in 1906, and Norway initially in 1907 (completed in 1913).\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, also known as the Edwardian era, there was a change in the way women dressed from the Victorian rigidity and complacency. Women, especially women who married a wealthy man, would often wear what we consider today, practical.\n\nBooks, articles, speeches, pictures, and papers from the period show a diverse range of themes other than political reform and suffrage discussed publicly. In the Netherlands, for instance, the main feminist issues were educational rights, rights to medical care, improved working conditions, peace, and dismantled gender double standards. Feminists identified as such with little fanfare.\n\nPankhursts formed the Women's Social and Political Union (WSPU) in 1903. As Emmline Pankhurst put it, they viewed votes for women no longer as \"a right, but as a desperate necessity\". At the state level, Australia and the United States had already granted suffrage to some women. American feminists such as Susan B. Anthony (1902) visited Britain. While WSPU was the best-known suffrage group, it was only one of many, such as the Women's Freedom League and the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS) led by Millicent Garrett Fawcett. WSPU was largely a family affair, although externally financed. Christabel Pankhurst became the dominant figure and gathered friends such as Annie Kenney, Flora Drummond, Teresa Billington, Ethel Smyth, Grace Roe, and Norah Dacre Fox (later known as Norah Elam) around her. Veterans such as Elizabeth Garrett also joined.\n\nIn 1906, the \"Daily Mail\" first labeled these women \"suffragettes\" as a form of ridicule, but the term was embraced by the women to describe the more militant form of suffragism visible in public marches, distinctive green, purple, and white emblems, and the Artists' Suffrage League's dramatic graphics. The feminists learned to exploit photography and the media, and left a vivid visual record including images such as the 1914 photograph of Emmeline.\n\nThe protests slowly became more violent, and included heckling, banging on doors, smashing shop windows, and arson. Emily Davison, a WSPU member, unexpectedly ran onto the track during the 1913 Epsom Derby and died under the King's horse. These tactics produced mixed results of sympathy and alienation. As many protesters were imprisoned and went on hunger-strike, the British government was left with an embarrassing situation. From these political actions, the suffragists successfully created publicity around their institutional discrimination and sexism.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, feminist science fiction emerged as a subgenre of science fiction that deals with women's roles in society. Female writers of the utopian literature movement at the time of first-wave feminism often addressed sexism. Charlotte Perkins Gilman's \"Herland\" (1915) did so. \"Sultana's Dream\" (1905) by Bengali Muslim feminist Roquia Sakhawat Hussain depicts a gender-reversed purdah in a futuristic world.\n\nDuring the 1920s, writers such as Clare Winger Harris and Gertrude Barrows Bennett published science fiction stories written from female perspectives and occasionally dealt with gender- and sexuality-based topics while popular 1920s and 30s pulp science fiction exaggerated masculinity alongside sexist portrayals of women. By the 1960s, science fiction combined sensationalism with political and technological critiques of society. With the advent of feminism, women's roles were questioned in this \"subversive, mind expanding genre\".\n\nFeminist science fiction poses questions about social issues such as how society constructs gender roles, how reproduction defines gender, and how the political power of men and women are unequal. Some of the most notable feminist science fiction works have illustrated these themes using utopias to explore societies where gender differences or gender power imbalances do not exist, and dystopias to explore worlds where gender inequalities are escalated, asserting a need for feminist work to continue.\n\nWomen entered the labor market during the First World War in unprecedented numbers, often in new sectors, and discovered the value of their work. The war also left large numbers of women bereaved and with a net loss of household income. The scores of men killed and wounded shifted the demographic composition. War also split the feminist groups, with many women opposed to the war and others involved in the white feather campaign.\n\nFeminist scholars like Francoise Thebaud and Nancy F. Cott note a conservative reaction to World War I in some countries, citing a reinforcement of traditional imagery and literature that promotes motherhood. The appearance of these traits in wartime has been called the \"nationalization of women\".\n\nIn the years between the wars, feminists fought discrimination and establishment opposition. In Virginia Woolf's \"A Room of One's Own\", Woolf describes the extent of the backlash and her frustration. By now, the word \"feminism\" was in use, but with a negative connotation from mass media, which discouraged women from self-identifying as such. When Rebecca West, another prominent writer, had been attacked as \"a feminist\", Woolf defended her. West has been remembered for her comment \"I myself have never been able to find out precisely what feminism is: I only know that people call me a feminist whenever I express sentiments that differentiate me from a doormat, or a prostitute.\"\n\nIn the 1920s, the nontraditional styles and attitudes of flappers were popular among American and British women.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Representation of the People Act 1918 gave near-universal suffrage to men, and suffrage to women over 30. The Representation of the People Act 1928 extended equal suffrage to both men and women. It also shifted the socioeconomic makeup of the electorate towards the working class, favoring the Labour Party, who were more sympathetic to women's issues. The following election and gave Labour the most seats in the house to date. The electoral reforms also allowed women to run for Parliament. Christabel Pankhurst narrowly failed to win a seat in 1918, and Constance Markievicz (Sinn Féin) was the first woman elected in Ireland in 1918, but as an Irish nationalist, refused to take her seat. In 1919 and 1920, both Lady Astor and Margaret Wintringham won seats for the Conservatives and Liberals respectively by succeeding their husband's seats. Labour swept to power in 1924. Astor's proposal to form a women's party in 1929 was unsuccessful. Women gained considerable electoral experience over the next few years as a series of minority governments ensured almost annual elections. Close affiliation with Labour also proved to be a problem for the National Union of Societies for Equal Citizenship (NUSEC), which had little support in the Conservative party. However, their persistence with Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin was rewarded with the passage of the Representation of the People (Equal Franchise) Act 1928.\n\nEuropean women received the vote in Denmark and Iceland in 1915 (full in 1919), the Russian Republic in 1917, Austria, Germany and Canada in 1918, many countries including the Netherlands in 1919, Czechoslovakia (today Czech Republic and Slovakia) in 1920, and Turkey and South Africa in 1930. French women did not receive the vote until 1945. Liechtenstein was one of the last countries, in 1984.\n\nThe political change did not immediately change social circumstances. With the economic recession, women were the most vulnerable sector of the workforce. Some women who held jobs prior to the war were obliged to forfeit them to returning soldiers, and others were excessed. With limited franchise, the UK National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies (NUWSS) pivoted into a new organization, the National Union of Societies for Equal Citizenship (NUSEC), which still advocated for equality in franchise, but extended its scope to examine equality in social and economic areas. Legislative reform was sought for discriminatory laws (e.g., family law and prostitution) and over the differences between \"equality\" and \"equity\", the accommodations that would allow women to overcome barriers to fulfillment (known in later years as the \"equality vs. difference conundrum\"). Eleanor Rathbone, who became a British Member of Parliament in 1929, succeeded Millicent Garrett as president of NUSEC in 1919. She expressed the critical need for consideration of \"difference\" in gender relationships as \"what women need to fulfill the potentialities of their own natures\". The 1924 Labour government's social reforms created a formal split, as a splinter group of strict egalitarians formed the Open Door Council in May 1926. This eventually became an international movement, and continued until 1965. Other important social legislation of this period included the Sex Disqualification (Removal) Act 1919 (which opened professions to women), and the Matrimonial Causes Act 1923. In 1932, NUSEC separated advocacy from education, and continued the former activities as the National Council for Equal Citizenship and the latter as the Townswomen's Guild. The council continued until the end of the Second World War.\n\nLaws prevented feminists from discussing and addressing reproductive rights. Annie Besant was tried under the Obscene Publications Act 1857 in 1877 for publishing Charles Knowlton's \"Fruits of Philosophy\", a work on family planning. Knowlton had previously been convicted in the United States. She and her colleague Charles Bradlaugh were convicted but acquitted on appeal. The subsequent publicity resulted in a decline in the UK's birth rate. Besant later wrote \"The Law of Population\".\n\nIn America, Margaret Sanger was prosecuted for her book \"Family Limitation\" under the Comstock Act in 1914, and fled to Britain until it was safe to return. Sanger's work was prosecuted in Britain. She met Marie Stopes in Britain, who was never prosecuted but regularly denounced for her promotion of birth control. In 1917, Sanger started the \"Birth Control Review\". In 1926, Sanger gave a lecture on birth control to the women's auxiliary of the Ku Klux Klan in Silver Lake, New Jersey, which she referred to as a \"weird experience\". The establishment of the Abortion Law Reform Association in 1936 was even more controversial. The British penalty for abortion had been reduced from execution to life imprisonment by the Offences against the Person Act 1861, although some exceptions were allowed in the Infant Life (Preservation) Act 1929. Following Aleck Bourne's prosecution in 1938, the 1939 Birkett Committee made recommendations for reform that were set aside at the Second World War's outbreak, along with many other women's issues.\n\nIn the Netherlands, Aletta H. Jacobs, the first Dutch female doctor, and Wilhelmina Drucker led discussion and action for reproductive rights. Jacobs imported diaphragms from Germany and distributed them to poor women for free.\n\nIn most front line countries, women volunteered or were conscripted for various duties in support of the national war effort. In Britain, women were drafted and assigned to industrial jobs or to non-combat military service. The British services enrolled 460,000 women. The largest service, Auxiliary Territorial Service, had a maximum of 213,000 women enrolled, many of whom served in anti-aircraft gun combat roles. In many countries, including Germany and the Soviet Union, women volunteered or were conscripted. In Germany, women volunteered in the League of German Girls and assisted the Luftwaffe as anti-aircraft gunners, or as guerrilla fighters in Werwolf units behind Allied lines. In the Soviet Union, about 820,000 women served in the military as medics, radio operators, truck drivers, snipers, combat pilots, and junior commanding officers.\n\nMany American women retained their domestic chores and often added a paid job, especially one related to a war industry. Much more so than in the previous war, large numbers of women were hired for unskilled or semi-skilled jobs in munitions, and barriers against married women taking jobs were eased. The popular Rosie the Riveter icon became a symbol for a generation of American working women. In addition, some 300,000 women served in U.S. military uniform with organizations such as Women's Army Corps and WAVES. With many young men gone, sports organizers tried to set up professional women's teams, such as the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, which closed after the war. After the war, most munitions plants closed, and civilian plants replaced their temporary female workers with returning veterans, who had priority.\n\n\"Second-wave feminism\" identifies a period of feminist activity from the early 1960s through the late 1980s that saw cultural and political inequalities as inextricably linked. The movement encouraged women to understand aspects of their personal lives as deeply politicized and reflective of a sexist power structure. As first-wave feminists focused on absolute rights such as suffrage, second-wave feminists focused on other cultural equality issues, such as ending discrimination.\n\nIn 1963, Betty Friedan's exposé \"The Feminine Mystique\" became the voice for the discontent and disorientation women felt in being shunted into homemaking positions after their college graduations. In the book, Friedan explored the roots of the change in women's roles from essential workforce during World War II to homebound housewife and mother after the war, and assessed the forces that drove this change in perception of women's roles.\n\nOver the following decade, \"Women's Liberation\" became a common phrase and concept.\n\nThe expression \"Women's Liberation\" has been used to refer to feminism throughout history. \"Liberation\" has been associated with feminist aspirations since 1895, and appears in the context of \"women's liberation\" in Simone de Beauvoir's 1949 \"The Second Sex\", which appeared in English translation in 1953. The phrase \"women's liberation\" was first used in 1964, in print in 1966, though the French equivalent, \"libération des femmes\", occurred as far back as 1911. \"Women's liberation\" was in use at the 1967 American Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) convention, which held a panel discussion on the topic. In 1968, the term \"Women's Liberation Front\" appeared in \"Ramparts\" magazine, and began to refer to the whole women's movement. In Chicago, women disillusioned with the New Left met separately in 1967, and published \"Voice of the Women's Liberation Movement\" in March 1968. When the Miss America pageant took place in Atlantic City in September 1968, the media referred to the resulting demonstrations as \"Women's Liberation\". The Chicago Women's Liberation Union was formed in 1969. Similar groups with similar titles appeared in many parts of the United States. Bra-burning, although fictional, became associated with the movement, and the media coined other terms such as \"libber\". \"Women's Liberation\" persisted over the other rival terms for the new feminism, captured the popular imagination, and has endured alongside the older term \"Women's Movement\".\n\n1960s feminism, its theory, and its activism was informed and fueled by the social, cultural, and political climate of that decade. This time was marked by increased female enrollment in higher education, the establishment of academic women's studies courses and departments, and feminist ideology in other related fields, such as politics, sociology, history, and literature. This academic shift in interests questioned the status quo, and its standards and authority.\n\nThe rise of the Women's Liberation movement revealed \"multiple feminisms\", or different underlying feminist lenses, due to the diverse origins from which groups had coalesced and intersected, and the complexity and contentiousness of the issues involved. bell hooks is noted as a prominent critic of the movement for its lack of voice given to the most oppressed women, its lack of emphasis on the inequalities of race and class, and its distance from the issues that divide women.\n\nEmpowered by \"The Feminine Mystique\", new feminist activists of the 1970s addressed more political and sexual issues in their writing, including Gloria Steinem's \"Ms.\" magazine and Kate Millett's \"Sexual Politics\". Millett's bleak survey of male writers, their attitudes and biases, to demonstrate that sex is politics, and politics is power imbalance in relationships. Shulamith Firestone's \"The Dialectic of Sex\" described a revolution based in Marxism, referenced as the \"sex war\". Considering the debates over patriarchy, she claimed that male domination dated to \"back beyond recorded history to the animal kingdom itself\".\n\nGermaine Greer's \"The Female Eunuch\", Sheila Rowbotham's \"Women's Liberation and the New Politics\", and Juliet Mitchell's \"Woman's Estate\" represent the English perspective. Mitchell argued that the movement should be seen as an international phenomenon with different manifestations based on local culture. British women drew on left-wing politics and organized small local discussion groups, partly through the London Women's Liberation Workshop and its publications, \"Shrew\" and the LWLW Newsletter. Although there were marches, the focus was on consciousness-raising, or political activism intended to bring a cause or condition to a wider audience. Kathie Sarachild of Redstockings described its function as such that women would \"find what they thought was an individual dilemma is social predicament\". Women found that their own personal experiences were information that they could trust in formulating political analyses.\n\nMeanwhile, in the U.S., women's frustrations crystallized around the failure to ratify the Equal Rights Amendment during the 1970s. Susan Brownmiller's 1975 \"Against Our Will\" introduced an explicit agenda against male violence, specifically male sexual violence, in a treatise on rape. Her assertion that \"pornography is the theory and rape the practice\" created deep fault lines around the concepts of objectification and commodification. Brownmiller's other major book, \"In our Time\" (2000), is a history of women's liberation.\n\nSusan Griffin was one of the first feminists to write on pornography's implications in her 1981 \"Pornography and Silence\". Beyond Brownmiller and Griffin's positions, Catharine MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin influenced debates and activism around pornography and prostitution, particularly at the Supreme Court of Canada. MacKinnon, a lawyer, has stated, \"To be about to be raped is to be gender female in the process of going about life as usual.\" She explained sexual harassment by saying that it \"doesn't mean that they [harassers] all want to fuck us, they just want to hurt us, dominate us, and control us, and that is fucking us.\" According to Pauline B. Bart, some people see radical feminism as the only movement that truly expresses the pain of being a woman in an unequal society, as it portrays that reality with the experiences of the battered and violated, which they claim to be the norm. Critics, including some feminists, civil libertarians, and jurists, have found this position uncomfortable and alienating.\n\nThis approach has evolved to transform the research and perspective on rape from an individual experience into a social problem.\n\nThird-wave feminism began in the early 1990s in response to what young women perceived as failures of the second-wave. It also responds to the backlash against the second-wave's initiatives and movements. Third-wave feminism seeks to challenge or avoid second-wave \"essentialist\" definitions of femininity, which over-emphasized the experiences of white, upper middle class women. A post-structuralist interpretation of gender and sexuality, or an understanding of gender as outside binary maleness and femaleness, is central to much of the third wave's ideology. Third-wave feminists often describe \"micropolitics\", and challenge second-wave paradigms about whether actions are unilaterally good for females.\n\nThese aspects of third-wave feminism arose in the mid-1980s. Feminist leaders rooted in the second wave like Gloria Anzaldúa, bell hooks, Chela Sandoval, Cherríe Moraga, Audre Lorde, Luisa Accati, Maxine Hong Kingston, and many other feminists of color, called for a new subjectivity in feminist voice. They wanted prominent feminist thought to consider race-related subjectivities. This focus on the intersection between race and gender remained prominent through the 1991 Hill–Thomas hearings, but began to shift with the Freedom Ride 1992, a drive to register voters in poor minority communities whose rhetoric intended to rally young feminists. For many, the rallying of the young is the common link within third-wave feminism.\n\nLesbianism during the second wave was visible within and without feminism. Lesbians felt sidelined by both gay liberation and women's liberation, where they were referred to as the \"Lavender Menace\", provoking \"The Woman-Identified Woman\", a 1970 manifesto that put lesbian women at the forefront of the liberation movement. Jill Johnston's 1973 \"\" argued for lesbian separatism. In its extreme form, this was expressed as the only appropriate choice for a woman. Eventually the lesbian movement was welcomed into the mainstream women's movement. This union's threat to male normativity was substantiated by the male backlash that followed.\n\nIn reproductive rights, feminists sought the right to contraception and birth control, which were almost universally restricted until the 1960s. Feminists hoped to use the first birth control pill to free women to decide the terms under which they will bear children. They felt that reproductive self-control was essential for full economic independence from men. Access to abortion was also widely demanded for these reasons, but was more difficult to secure due to existing, deep societal divisions over the issue.\n\nThird-wave feminists also fought to hasten social acceptance of female sexual freedom. As societal norms allowed men to have multiple sexual partners without rebuke, feminists sought sexual equality for that freedom and encouraged \"sexual liberation\" for women, including sex for pleasure with multiple partners, if desired. \n\nFollowing World War II, the United Nations (UN) extended feminism's global reach. They established a Commission on the Status of Women in 1946., which later joined the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC). In 1948, the UN issued its Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which protects \"the equal rights of men and women\", and addressed both equality and equity. Starting with the 1975 World Conference of the International Women's Year in Mexico City as part of their Decade for Women (1975–85), the UN has held a series of world conferences on women's issues. These conferences have worldwide female representation and provide considerable opportunity to advance women's rights. They also illustrate deep cultural divisions and disagreement on universal principles, as evidenced by the successive Copenhagen (1980) and Nairobi (1985) conferences. Examples of such intrafeminism divisions have included disparities between economic development, attitudes towards forms of oppression, the definition of feminism, and stances on homosexuality, female circumcision, and population control. The Nairobi convention revealed a less monolithic feminism that \"constitutes the political expression of the concerns and interests of women from different regions, classes, nationalities, and ethnic backgrounds. There is and must be a diversity of feminisms, responsive to the different needs and concerns of women, and defined by them for themselves. This diversity builds on a common opposition to gender oppression and hierarchy which, however, is only the first step in articulating and acting upon a political agenda.\" The fourth conference was held in Beijing in 1995, where the Beijing Platform for Action was signed. This included a commitment to achieve \"gender equality and the empowerment of women\" through \"gender mainstreaming\", or letting women and men \"experience equal conditions for realising their full human rights, and have the opportunity to contribute and benefit from national, political, economic, social and cultural development\".\n\nFourth-wave feminism is a recent development within the feminist movement. Jennifer Baumgardner identifies fourth-wave feminism as starting in 2008 and continuing into the present day. Kira Cochrane, author of \" All the Rebel Women: The Rise of the Fourth Wave of Feminism\", defines fourth-wave feminism as a movement that is connected through technology. Researcher Diana Diamond defines fourth-wave feminism as a movement that \"combines politics, psychology, and spirituality in an overarching vision of change.\" \n\nIn 2005, Pythia Peay first argued for the existence of a fourth wave of feminism, combining justice with religious spirituality. According to Jennifer Baumgardner in 2011, a fourth wave, incorporating online resources such as social media, may have begun in 2008, inspired partly by Take Our Daughters to Work Days. This fourth wave in turn has inspired or been associated with: the Doula Project for children's services; post-abortion talk lines; pursuit of reproductive justice; plus-size fashion support; transgenderism support; male feminism; sex work acceptance; and developing media including Feministing, Racialicious, blogs, and Twitter campaigns.\n\nAccording to Kira Cochrane, a fourth wave had appeared in the U.K. and several other nations by 2012-13. It focused on: sexual inequality as manifested in \"street harassment, sexual harassment, workplace discrimination[,] ... body-shaming\"; media images, \"online misogyny\", \"assault[s] on public transport\"; on intersectionality; on social media technology for communication and online petitioning for organizing; and on the perception, inherited from prior waves, that individual experiences are shared and thus can have political solutions. Cochrane identified as fourth wave such organizations and websites as the Everyday Sexism Project and UK Feminista; and events such as Reclaim the Night, One Billion Rising, and \"a Lose the Lads' mags protest\", where \"many of [the leaders] ... are in their teens and 20s\".\n\nIn 2014, Betty Dodson, who is also acknowledged as one of the leaders of the early 1980s pro-sex feminist movement, expressed that she considers herself a fourth wave feminist. Dodson expressed that the previous waves of feminist were banal and anti-sexual, which is why she has chosen to look at a new stance of feminism, fourth wave feminism. In 2014, Dodson worked with women to discover their sexual desires through masturbation. Dodson says her work has gained a fresh lease of life with a new audience of young, successful women who have never had an orgasm. This includes fourth-wave feminists - those rejecting the anti-pleasure stance they believe third-wave feminists stand for.\n\nIn 2014, Rhiannon Lucy Cosslett and Holly Baxter released their book, \"The Vagenda.\" The authors of the book both consider themselves fourth wave feminists. Like their website \"The Vagenda\", their book aims to flag and debunk the stereotypes of femininity promoted by the mainstream women's press. One reviewer of the book has expressed disappointment with \"The Vagenda\", saying that instead of being the \"call to arms for young women\" that it purports to be, it reads like a joyless dissertation detailing \"everything bad the media has ever done to women.\"\n\nThe Everyday Sexism Project began as a social media campaign on 16 April 2012 by Laura Bates, a British feminist writer. The aim of the site was to document everyday examples of sexism as reported by contributors around the world. Bates established the Everyday Sexism Project as an open forum where women could post their experiences of harassment. Bates explains the Everyday Sexism Project's goal, \"\"The project was never about solving sexism. It was about getting people to take the first step of just realising there is a problem that needs to be fixed.\"\n\nThe website was such a success that Bates decided to write and publish a book, \"Everyday Sexism\", which further emphasizes the importance of having this type of online forum for women. The book provides unique insight into the vibrant movement of the upcoming fourth wave and the untold stories that women shared through the Everyday Sexism Project.\n\nClick! The Ongoing Feminist Revolution\n\nIn November 2015, a group of historians working with Clio Visualizing History launched \"Click! The Ongoing Feminist Revolution.\" This digital history exhibit examines the history of American feminism from the era of World War Two to the present. The exhibit has three major sections: Politics and Social Movements; Body and Health; and Workplace and Family. There are also interactive timelines linking to a vast array of sources documenting the history of American feminism and providing information about current feminist activism.\n\nThe wave metaphor has been critiqued as inappropriate, limiting, and misleading by a number of feminist scholars.\n\nWhile this metaphor was once useful for United States feminists in order to gain the attention required to make large-scale political changes, as was the case for the women’s suffrage movement of the 1940s, its relevance may have not only run its course but its usage has been argued as completely inappropriate. For example, the suffragettes did not use the term ‘feminism’ to describe themselves or their movement. This critique is shown through one early twentieth century feminist’s words: “All feminists are suffragists, but not all suffragists are feminists”.\n\nThe wave metaphor has been described as misleading and even dangerous because it not only renders the periods of time in-between waves as silent and irrelevant, but it also contributes to the faulty conceptualization of a particular brand hegemonic feminism as the ultimate understanding of what feminism is. These critiques advocate for the recognition of periods of mass social organizing rather than ‘waves’. It is argued that the wave metaphor weakens the strength and relevance of feminist arguments, since waves necessarily must peak and then retreat, which is not an accurate picture of feminist progress in the United States or elsewhere. Feminism does not retreat or disappear in-between ‘waves'. For example, after the explosion of mass social organizing in the 1960s, 70s and 80s, feminism was being worked into our institutions – a much less glamorous but just as important job that did not require such large-scale attention. As a result, we have seen more and more women in more areas of the job force, higher education, and the installation and success of Women’s and Gender Studies programs across the United States, to name just a few examples of feminism’s continuous and very relevant presence in this time between the ‘waves’.\n\nThe wave metaphor has further been criticized for privileging not only particular races and classes of women in the United States, but for privileging the feminism of the United States in general over other locations in the world. Amrita Basu argues for, “the politics and conditions of emergence,” instead of the wave metaphor, which does not allow for this privileging of particular people and nations but instead allows for the importance and understanding of any and all peoples in the world who have contributed to feminism and its many understandings and meanings.\n\nThe 18th century French Revolution's focus on \"égalité\" (equality) extended to the inequities faced by French women. The writer Olympe de Gouges amended the 1791 \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" into the \"Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen\", where she argued that women accountable to the law must also bear equal responsibility under the law. She also addressed marriage as a social contract between equals and attacked women's reliance on beauty and charm as a form of slavery.\n\nThe 19th century, conservative, post-Revolution France was inhospitable for feminist ideas, as expressed in the counter-revolutionary writings on the role of women by Joseph de Maistre and Viscount Louis de Bonald. Advancement came mid-century under the 1848 revolution and the proclamation of the Second Republic, which introduced male suffrage amid hopes that similar benefits would apply to women. Although the Utopian Charles Fourier is considered a feminist writer of this period, his influence was minimal at the time. With the fall of the conservative Louis-Philippe in 1848, feminist hopes were raised, as in 1790. Movement newspapers and organizations appeared, such as Eugénie Niboyet's \"La Voix des Femmes\" (\"The Women's Voice\"), the first feminist daily newspaper in France. Niboyet was a Protestant who had adopted Saint-Simonianism, and \"La Voix\" attracted other women from that movement, including the seamstress Jeanne Deroin and the primary schoolteacher Pauline Roland. Unsuccessful attempts were also made to recruit George Sand. Feminism was treated as a threat due to its ties with socialism, which was scrutinized since the Revolution. Deroin and Roland were both arrested, tried, and imprisoned in 1849. With the emergence of a new, more conservative government in 1852, feminism would have to wait until the Third French Republic.\n\nThe Groupe Français d'Etudes Féministes were women intellectuals at the beginning of the 20th century who translated part of Bachofen's canon into French and campaigned for the family law reform. In 1905, they founded \"L'entente\", which published articles on women's history, and became the focus for the intellectual avant-garde. It advocated for women's entry into higher education and the male-dominated professions. Meanwhile, the Parti Socialiste Féminin socialist feminists, adopted a Marxist version of matriarchy. Like the Groupe Français, they toiled for a new age of equality, not for a return to prehistoric models of matriarchy. French feminism of the late 20th century is mainly associated with psychoanalytic feminist theory, particularly the work of Luce Irigaray, Julia Kristeva, and Hélène Cixous.\n\nModern feminism in Germany began during the Wilhelmine period (1888–1918) with feminists pressuring a range of traditional institutions, from universities to government, to open their doors to women. The organized German women's movement is widely attributed to writer and feminist Louise Otto-Peters (1819–1895). This movement culminated in women's suffrage in 1919. Later waves of feminists continued to ask for legal and social equality in public and family life. Alice Schwarzer is the most prominent contemporary German feminist.\n\nThe Iranian women's rights movement first emerged some time after the Iranian Constitutional Revolution, in the year in which the first women's journal was published, 1910. The movement lasted until 1933, when the last women's association was dissolved by the Reza Shah's government. The status of women further deteriorated after the 1979 Iranian Revolution. Many of the rights women gained under Shah were systematically abolished through legislation, elimination of women from work, and forced hijab (veils for women). The movement later grew again under feminist figures such as Bibi Khanoom Astarabadi, Touba Azmoudeh, Sediqeh Dowlatabadi, Mohtaram Eskandari, Roshank No'doost, Afaq Parsa, Fakhr ozma Arghoun, Shahnaz Azad, Noor-ol-Hoda Mangeneh, Zandokht Shirazi, Maryam Amid (Mariam Mozayen-ol Sadat).\n\nIn 1992, Shahla Sherkat founded \"Zanan\" (\"Women\") magazine, which covered Iranian women's concerns and tested political boundaries with edgy reportage on reform politics, domestic abuse, and sex. It is the most important Iranian women's journal published after the Iranian revolution. It systematically criticized the Islamic legal code and argued that gender equality is Islamic and religious literature had been misread and misappropriated by misogynists. Mehangiz Kar, Shahla Lahiji, and Shahla Sherkat, the editor of \"Zanan\", lead the debate on women's rights and demanded reforms. On August 27, 2006, the One Million Signatures Iranian women's rights campaign was started. It aims to end legal discrimination against women in Iranian laws by collecting a million signatures. The campaign supporters include many Iranian women's rights activists, international activists, and Nobel laureates. The most important post-revolution feminist figures are Mehrangiz Kar, Azam Taleghani, Shahla Sherkat, Parvin Ardalan, Noushin Ahmadi khorasani, and Shadi Sadr.\n\nIn 1899, Qasim Amin, considered the \"father\" of Arab feminism, wrote \"The Liberation of Women\", which argued for legal and social reforms for women. Hoda Shaarawi founded the Egyptian Feminist Union in 1923 and became its president and a symbol of the Arab women's rights movement. Arab feminism was closely connected with Arab nationalism. In 1956, President Gamal Abdel Nasser's government initiated \"state feminism\", which outlawed gender-based discrimination and granted women's suffrage. Despite these reforms, \"state feminism\" blocked feminist political activism and brought an end to the first-wave feminist movement in Egypt. During Anwar Sadat's presidency, his wife, Jehan Sadat, publicly advocated for expansion of women's rights, though Egyptian policy and society was in retreat from women's equality with the new Islamist movement and growing conservatism. However, writers such as Al Ghazali Harb, for example, argued that women's full equality is an important part of Islam. This position formed a new feminist movement, Islamic feminism, which is still active today.\n\nA new generation of Indian feminists emerged following global feminism. Indian women have greater independence from increased access to higher education and control over their reproductive rights. Medha Patkar, Madhu Kishwar, and Brinda Karat are feminist social workers and politicians who advocate for women's rights in post-independence India. Writers such as Amrita Pritam, Sarojini Sahoo, and Kusum Ansal advocate for feminist ideas in Indian languages. Rajeshwari Sunder Rajan, Leela Kasturi, and Vidyut Bhagat are Indian feminist essayists and critics writing in English.\n\n Feminism in China began in the late Qing period as Chinese society re-evaluated traditional and Confucian values such as foot binding and gender segregation, and began to reject traditional gender ideas as hindering progress towards modernization. During the 1898 Hundred Days' Reform, reformers called for women's education, gender equality, and the end of foot binding. Female reformers formed the first Chinese women's society, the Society for the Diffusion of Knowledge among Chinese Women (\"Nüxuehui\"). After the Qing Dynasty's collapse, women's liberation became a goal of the May Fourth Movement and the New Culture Movement. Later, the Chinese Communist Revolution adopted women's liberation as one of its aims and promoted women's equality, especially regarding women's participation in the workforce. After the revolution and progress in integrating women into the workforce, the Chinese Communist Party claimed to have successfully achieved women's liberation, and women's inequality was no longer seen as a problem.\n\nSecond- and third-wave feminism in China was characterized by a re-examination of women's roles during the reform movements of the early 20th century and the ways in which feminism was adopted by those various movements in order to achieve their goals. Later and current feminists have questioned whether gender equality has actually been fully achieved, and discuss current gender problems, such as the large gender disparity in the population.\n\nJapanese feminism as an organized political movement dates back to the early years of the 20th century when Kato Shidzue pushed for birth control availability as part of a broad spectrum of progressive reforms. Shidzue went on to serve in the National Diet following the defeat of Japan in World War II and the promulgation of the Peace Constitution by US forces. Other figures such as Hayashi Fumiko and Ariyoshi Sawako illustrate the broad socialist ideologies of Japanese feminism that seeks to accomplish broad goals rather than celebrate the individual achievements of powerful women.\n\nNorwegian feminism's political origins are in the women's suffrage movement. Camilla Collett (1813–1895) is widely considered the first Norwegian feminist. Originating from a literary family, she wrote a novel and several articles on the difficulties facing women of her time, and, in particular, forced marriages. Amalie Skram (1846–1905), a naturalist writer, also served as the women's voice.\n\nThe Norwegian Association for Women's Rights was founded in 1884 by Gina Krog and Hagbart Berner. The organization raised issues related to women's rights to education and economic self-determination, and, above all, universal suffrage. The Norwegian Parliament passed the women's right to vote into law on June 11, 1913. Norway was the second country in Europe (after Finland) to have full suffrage for women.\n\nThe development of feminism in Poland (re-recreated in modern times in 1918) and Polish territories has traditionally been divided into seven successive \"waves\".\n\nRadical feminism emerged in 1920s Poland. Its chief representatives, Irena Krzywicka and Maria Morozowicz-Szczepkowska, advocated for women's personal, social, and legal independence from men. Krzywicka and Tadeusz Żeleński both promoted planned parenthood, sexual education, rights to divorce and abortion, and equality of sexes. Krzywicka published a series of articles in \"Wiadomości Literackie\" in which she protested against interference by the Roman Catholic Church in the intimate lives of Poles.\n\nAfter the Second World War, the Polish Communist state (established in 1948) forcefully promoted women's emancipation at home and at work. However, during Communist rule (until 1989), feminism in general and second-wave feminism in particular were practically absent. Although feminist texts were produced in the 1950s and afterwards, they were usually controlled and generated by the Communist state. After the fall of Communism, the Polish government, dominated by Catholic political parties, introduced a \"de facto\" legal ban on abortions. Since then, some feminists have adopted argumentative strategies from the 1980s American pro-choice movement.\n\nThe sexuality and gender historian Nancy Cott distinguishes between \"modern feminism\" and its antecedents, particularly the struggle for suffrage. She argues that in the two decades surrounding the Nineteenth Amendment's 1920 passage, the prior \"woman movement\" primarily concerned women as \"universal\" entities, whereas over this 20-year period, the movement prioritized social differentiation, attention to \"individuality\", and diversity. New issues dealt more with gender as a social construct, gender identity, and relationships within and between genders. Politically, this represented a shift from an ideological alignment comfortable with the right, to one more radically associated with the left.\n\nIn the immediate postwar period, Simone de Beauvoir opposed the \"woman in the home\" norm. She introduced an existentialist dimension to feminism with the publication of \"Le Deuxième Sexe\" (\"The Second Sex\") in 1949. While less an activist than a philosopher and novelist, she signed one of the Mouvement de Libération des Femmes manifestos.\n\nThe resurgence of feminist activism in the late 1960s was accompanied by an emerging literature of what might be considered female-associated issues, such as concerns for the earth, spirituality, and environmental activism. The atmosphere this created reignited the study of and debate on matricentricity as a rejection of determinism, such as with Adrienne Rich in \"Of Woman Born\" and Marilyn French in \"Beyond Power\". For socialist feminists like Evelyn Reed, patriarchy held the properties of capitalism.\n\nAnn Taylor Allen describes the differences between the collective male pessimism of male intellectuals such as Ferdinand Tönnies, Max Weber, and Georg Simmel at the beginning of the 20th century, compared to the optimism of their female counterparts, whose contributions have largely been ignored by social historians of the era.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "231943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231943", "title": "Humility", "text": "Humility\n\nHumility is the quality of being humble. Dictionary definitions accentuate humility as a low self-regard and sense of unworthiness. In a religious context humility can mean a recognition of self in relation to a deity (i.e. God) or deities, and self-debasement with subsequent submission to said deity as a member of that religion. Outside of a religious context, humility is defined as being \"unselved\", a liberation from consciousness of self, a form of temperance that is neither having pride (or haughtiness) nor indulging in self-deprecation. \n\nHumility is an outward expression of an appropriate inner, or self regard, and is contrasted with humiliation which is an imposition, often external, of shame upon a person. Humility may be misappropriated as ability to suffer humiliation through self-denouncements which in itself remains focus on self rather than low self-focus.\n\nHumility, in various interpretations, is widely seen as a virtue which centers on low self-preoccupation, or unwillingness to put oneself forward, so it is in many religious and philosophical traditions, it contrasts with narcissism, hubris and other forms of pride and is an idealistic and rare intrinsic construct that has an extrinsic side.\n\nThe term \"humility\" comes from the Latin word \"humilitas\", a noun related to the adjective ', which may be translated as \"humble\", but also as \"grounded\", or \"from the earth\", since it derives from ' (earth). See the English \"humus\".\n\nThe word \"humble\" may be related to feudal England where the lowest cuts of meat, or 'umbles' ,' that is to say whatever was left over when the upper classes had taken their parts, were provided to the lowest class of citizen. The term 'humble pie,' meaning to exist in a lowly station, may derive from this definition.\n\nAidos, in Greek mythology, was the \"daimona\" (goddess) of shyness, shame, and humility. She was the quality that restrained human beings from wrong.\n\nRabbi Lord Jonathan Sacks states that in Judaism humility is an appreciation of oneself, one's talents, skills, and virtues. It is not meekness or self-deprecating thought, but the effacing of oneself to something higher. Humility is not to think lowly of oneself, but to appreciate the self one has received. In recognition of the mysteries and complexities of life, one becomes humbled to the awesomeness of what one is and what one can achieve. Rabbi Pini Dunner discusses that humility is to place others first; it is to appreciate others' worth as important. In recognizing our worth as people, Rabbi Dunner shows that looking into the zillions of stars in the sky, and in the length and history of time, you and I are insignificant, like dust. Rabbi Dunner states that Moses wrote in the Torah, \"And Moses was exceedingly humble, more than any man on the face of the earth.\" How is it possible to be humble and write you are the most humble? The conclusion is that Moses knew he was humble. It is not in denial of your talents and gifts but to recognize them and live up to your worth and something greater. It is in the service to others that is the greatest form of humility.\n\nAs illustrated in the person of Moses, who leads the nation of Hebrews out of slavery in Egypt and to the “Promised Land”, humility is a sign of Godly strength and purpose, not weakness. Of this great leader, the Bible states, “For Moses was a man exceeding meek above all men that dwelt upon earth\" (). Moses is venerated by Jewish, Christian and Muslim adherents alike.\n\nAmongst the benefits of humility described in the Old Testament, that is shared by many faiths, are honor, wisdom, prosperity, the protection of the Lord and peace. In addition, \"God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble\" ()\n\nNew Testament exhortations to humility are found in many places, for example \"Blessed are the meek\" (), \"He who exalts himself will be humbled and he who humbles himself will be exalted\" (), as well as () and throughout the Book of James. Also in Jesus Christ's behavior in general and submission to unjust torture and execution in particular, are held up as examples of righteous humility: \"Who, when he was reviled, did not revile: when he suffered, he threatened not: but delivered himself to him that judged him justly.\",\n\nC.S. Lewis writes, in \"Mere Christianity\", that pride is the \"anti-God\" state, the position in which the ego and the self are directly opposed to God: \"Unchastity, anger, greed, drunkenness, and all that, are mere fleabites in comparison: it was through Pride that the devil became the devil: Pride leads to every other vice: it is the complete anti-God state of mind.\" In contrast, Lewis contends that, in Christian moral teaching, the opposite of pride is humility. This is popularly illustrated by a phrase wrongly attributed to Lewis, \"Humility is not thinking less of yourself, but thinking of yourself less.\" This is an apparent paraphrase, by Rick Warren in \"The Purpose Driven Life\", of a passage found in \"Mere Christianity:\" Lewis writes, regarding the truly humble man, \n\nSt. Augustine stresses the importance of humility in the study of the Bible, with the exemplars of a barbarian Christian slave, the apostle Paul, and the Ethiopian eunuch in Acts 8 (\"De Doctrina Christiana\", prooem. 4–7 [hereafter \"DDC\"]). Both learner and teacher need to be humble, because they learn and teach what ultimately belongs to God (\"DDC\", prooem. 7–8; 1 Cor. 4:7). Humility is a basic disposition of the interpreter of the Bible. The confidence of the exegete and preacher arises from the conviction that his or her mind depends on God absolutely (\"DDC\", 1.1.1). Augustine argues that the interpreter of the Bible should proceed with humility, because only a humble person can grasp the truth of Scripture (\"DDC\", 2.41.62).\n\nHumility is said to be a fit recipient of grace; according to the words of St. James, \"God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble\" (, .)\n\n\"True humility\" is distinctly different from \"false humility\" which consists of deprecating one's own sanctity, gifts, talents, and accomplishments for the sake of receiving praise or adulation from others, as personified by the fictional character Uriah Heep created by Charles Dickens. In this context legitimate humility comprises the following behaviors and attitudes:\n\nThe vices opposed to humility are: \n\nCatholic texts view humility as annexed to the cardinal virtue of temperance. It is viewed as a potential part of temperance because temperance includes all those virtues that restrain or express the inordinate movements of our desires or appetites.\n\nSt. Bernard defines it as, \"A virtue by which a man knowing himself as he truly is, abases himself. Jesus Christ is the ultimate definition of Humility.\"\n\nHumility was a virtue extolled by Saint Francis of Assisi, and this form of Franciscan piety led to the artistic development of the \"Madonna of humility\" first used by them for contemplation. The Virgin of humility sits on the ground, or upon a low cushion, unlike the \"Enthroned Madonna\" representations. This style of painting spread quickly through Italy and by 1375 examples began to appear in Spain, France and Germany and it became the most popular among the styles of the early Trecento artistic period.\n\nSt. Thomas Aquinas, a 13th-century philosopher and theologian in the Scholastic tradition, defines humility similarly as \"the virtue of humility\" that \"consists in keeping oneself within one's own bounds, not reaching out to things above one, but submitting to one's superior\" (Summa Contra Gent., bk. IV, ch. lv, tr. Joseph Rickaby).\n\nIn the Qur'an, various Arabic words conveying the meaning of \"humility\" are used. The very term \"Islam\" can be interpreted as \"surrender (to God), humility”, from the triconsonantal root S-L-M; other words used are \"tawadu\" and \"khoshou\": \n\nBuddhism is a religion of self-examination. The natural aim of the Buddhist life is the state of enlightenment, gradually cultivated through meditation and other spiritual practices. Humility, in this context, is a characteristic that is both an essential part of the spiritual practice, and a result of it. As a quality to be developed, it is deeply connected with the practice of Four Abodes (Brahmavihara): love-kindness, compassion, empathetic joy and equanimity. As a result of the practice, this cultivated humility is expanded by the wisdom acquired by the experience of ultimate emptiness (Shunyata) and non-self (Anatta). Humility, compassion, and wisdom are intrinsic parts of the state of enlightenment. On the other hand, not being humble is an obstacle on the path of enlightenment which needs to be overcome. In the Tipitaka (the Buddhist scriptures), criticizing others and praising oneself is considered a vice; but criticizing oneself and praising others is considered a virtue. Attachment to the self, apart from being a vice in itself, also leads to other evil states, that create suffering.\n\nIn the Tipitaka, in the widely known \"Mangala Sutta\", humility (\"\", literally: 'without air') is mentioned as one of the thirty-eight blessings in life. In the Pali tradition, examples of humility that are often raised are the monk Sariputta Thera, a leading disciple of the Buddha, and Hatthaka, a leading lay disciple. In later Pali texts and Commentaries, Sariputta Thera is depicted as a forgiving person, who is quick to apologize and accepting of criticism. In the \"suttas\" (discourses of the Buddha) Hatthaka is praised by the Buddha when he was unwilling to let other people know his good qualities.\n\nIn Buddhist practice, humility is practiced in a variety of ways. For example, Japanese Soto Zen monks bow and chant in honor of their robes before they don them. This serves to remind them of the connection of the monk's robes with enlightenment. Buddhist monks in all traditions are dependent on the generosity of laypeople, through whom they receive their necessities. This in itself is a practice of humility.\n\nIn Sanskrit literature, the virtue of humility is explained with many terms, some of which use the root word, \"neti\" (sometimes spelled \"nati\", \"nti\", Sanskrit: नति). \"नति\" comes from \"न ति\" or 'No \"Me\" / I am not'. Related words include \"viniti\" (विनति), \"samniti\" (संनति, humility towards), and the concept \"amanitvam\", listed as the first virtue in the Bhagwad Gita. \"Amanitvam\" is a fusion word for \"pridelessness\" and the virtue of \"humility\". Other related concepts are \"namrata\" (नम्रता), which means \"modest and humble behavior\".\n\nDifferent scholars have varying interpretations for the concept of \"amanitvam\", humility, as virtue in the Bhagwad Gita. For example, Prabhupada explains humility to mean one should not be anxious to have the satisfaction of being honored by others. The material conception of life makes us very eager to receive honor from others, but from the point of view of a man in perfect knowledge—who knows that he is not this body—anything, honor or dishonor, pertaining to this body is useless. Jopson explains \"amanitvam\", humility, as lack of arrogance and pride, and one of twenty-six virtues in a human being that if perfected, leads one to a divine state of living and the ultimate truth. Eknath Easwaran writes that the Gita's subject is \"the war within, the struggle for self-mastery that every human being must wage if he or she is to emerge from life victorious\", and \"The language of battle is often found in the scriptures, for it conveys the strenuous, long, drawn-out campaign we must wage to free ourselves from the tyranny of the ego, the cause of all our suffering and sorrow\". To get in touch with your true self, whether you call that God, Brahman, etc., one has to let go of the ego. The Sanskrit word Ahamkara literally translates into The-sound-of-I, or quite simply the sense of the self or ego.\n\nMahatma Gandhi interprets the concept of \"humility\" in Hindu Dharma much more broadly, where humility is an essential virtue that must exist in a person for other virtues to emerge. To Mahatma Gandhi, Truth can be cultivated, as well as Love, but Humility cannot be cultivated. Humility has to be one of the starting points. He states, \"Humility cannot be an observance by itself. For it does not lend itself to being practiced. It is however an indispensable test of ahimsa (non-violence).\" Humility must not be confused with mere manners; a man may prostrate himself before another, but if his heart is full of bitterness for the other, it is not humility. Sincere humility is how one feels inside, it's a state of mind. A humble person is not himself conscious of his humility, states Mahatma Gandhi.\n\nSwami Vivekananda, one of the scholars of Hindu Dharma in the 19th century, argues that the concept of humility does not mean \"crawling on all fours and calling oneself a sinner.\" In Vivekananda's Hindu Dharma, each human being being the Universal, recognizing and feeling oneness with everyone and everything else in the universe, without inferiority or superiority or any other bias, is the mark of humility. To Dr. S Radhakrishnan, humility in Hindu Dharma is the non-judgmental state of mind when we are best able to learn, contemplate and understand everyone and everything else.\n\nGuru Nanak, the first Sikh guru was the prophet of humility.\n\nBaba Nand Singh Ji Maharaj said about Guru Nanak that Garibi, Nimrata, Humility is the Divine Flavour, the most wonderful fragrance of the Lotus Feet of Lord Guru Nanak. There is no place for Ego (referred to in Sikhism as Haumain) in the sphere of Divine Love, in the sphere of true Prema Bhagti. That is why in the House of Guru Nanak one finds Garibi, Nimrata, Humility reigning supreme. Guru Nanak was an Incarnation of Divine Love and a Prophet of True Humility.\n\nAccording to Sikhism all people, equally, have to bow before God so there ought to be no hierarchies among or between people. According to Nanak the supreme purpose of human life is to reconnect with Akal (The Timeless One), however, egotism is the biggest barrier in doing this. Using the guru's teaching remembrance of \"nām\" (the divine Word) leads to the end of egotism. The immediate fruit of humility is intuitive peace and pleasure. With humility they continue to meditate on the Lord, the treasure of excellence. The God-conscious being is steeped in humility. One whose heart is mercifully blessed with abiding humility. Sikhism treats humility as a begging bowl before the god.\n\nSikhs extend this belief in equality, and thus humility, towards all faith: \"all religious traditions are equally valid and capable of enlightening their followers\". In addition to sharing with others Guru Nanak inspired people to earn an honest living without exploitation and also the need for remembrance of the divine name (God). Guru Nanak described living an \"active, creative, and practical life\" of \"truthfulness, fidelity, self-control and purity\" as being higher than a purely contemplative life.\n\nBaba Nand Singh Sahib is renowned as the most humble Sikh Saint in the history of Sikhism. Once the disciples of Baba Harnam Singh Ji, the spiritual preceptor of Baba Nand Singh Ji Maharaj asked him how much power He had transmitted to Baba Nand Singh Ji Maharaj to which He replied\n\nBaba Nand Singh Ji Maharaj was humbler than the humblest in spirit and He outshines everyone at the pinnacle of all spiritual glory.\n\nSri Guru Arjan Sahib says in Sukhmani Sahib:\n\nThe spiritual teacher Meher Baba held that humility is one of the foundations of devotional life: \"Upon the altar of humility we must offer our prayers to God.\" Baba also described the power of humility to overcome hostility: \"True humility is strength, not weakness. It disarms antagonism and ultimately conquers it.\" Finally, Baba emphasized the importance of being humble when serving others: \"\"One of the most difficult things to learn is to render service without bossing, without making a fuss about it and without any consciousness of high and low. In the world of spirituality, humility counts at least as much as utility\".\"\n\nHumility, in Taoism, is defined as a refusal to assert authority or a refusal to be first in anything and that the act of daring, in itself, is a refusal of wisdom and a rush to enjoin circumstances before you are ready. Along with compassion and frugality, humility is one the three treasures (virtues) in the possession of those who follow the Tao.\n\nThe treasure of humility, in Chinese is a six-character phrase instead of a single word: \"Bugan wei tianxia xian\" 不敢為天下先 \"not dare to be first/ahead in the world\". \nEllen Chen notes that\nThe third treasure, daring not be at the world's front, is the Taoist way to avoid premature death. To be at the world's front is to expose oneself, to render oneself vulnerable to the world's destructive forces, while to remain behind and to be humble is to allow oneself time to fully ripen and bear fruit. This is a treasure whose secret spring is the fear of losing one's life before one's time. This fear of death, out of a love for life, is indeed the key to Taoist wisdom. (1989:209) \n\nFurthermore, also according to the Tao Te Ching (77.4) a wise person acts without claiming the results as his; he achieves his merit and does not rest (arrogantly) in it: – he does not wish to display his superiority.\n\nIn the numerous traditions of initiatory Wicca, called in the U.S.A. British Traditional Wicca, four paired & balanced qualities are recommended in liturgical texts as having come from the Wiccan Goddess:\n\nIn the matter of humility, this deific instruction appropriately pairs being honorable with being humble. Characteristically, this Wiccan \"virtue\" is balanced by its partner virtue.\n\nKant's view of humility has been defined as \"that meta-attitude that constitutes the moral agent's proper perspective on himself as a dependent and corrupt but capable and dignified rational agent\". Kant's notion of humility relies on the centrality of truth and rational thought leading to proper perspective and can therefore be seen as emergent.\n\nMahatma Gandhi is attributed as suggesting that attempting to sustain truth without humility is doomed to become an \"arrogant caricature\" of truth.\n\nWhile many religions and philosophers view humility as a virtue, some have been critical of it, seeing it as opposed to individualism.\n\nNietzsche views humility as a strategy used by the weak to avoid being destroyed by the strong. In \"Twilight of the Idols\" he writes: \"When stepped on, a worm doubles up. That is clever. In that way he lessens the probability of being stepped on again. In the language of morality: humility.\" He believed that his idealized Übermensch would be more apt to roam around unfettered by pretensions of humility, proud of his stature and power, but not reveling idly in it, and certainly not displaying hubris. But, if so, this would mean the pretension aspect of this kind of humility is more akin to obsequiousness and to other kinds of pretentious humility.\n\nRecent research suggests that humility is a quality of certain types of leaders. For example, Jim Collins and his colleagues found that a certain type of leader, whom they term \"level 5\", possesses humility and fierce resolve. Humility is being studied as a trait that can enhance leadership effectiveness. The research suggests that humility is multi-dimensional and includes self-understanding and awareness, openness, and perspective taking.\n\n\n\nIslam's quotes regarding humility IslamicArtDB.com\n"}
{"id": "14480858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14480858", "title": "Ius indigenatus", "text": "Ius indigenatus\n\nIus indigenatus (Latin for \"right of local birth\") is a right which was from the 15th to the 18th century a requirement for people to hold office in Prussia. It limited offices and land ownership to local Prussian natives, i.e. persons from the Monastic state of the Teutonic Knights as of 1453.\n\nWhen the Prussian cities (some of them Hanseatic league members) and gentry (many of German origin) seceded from the Order in 1454, it was, along with Danzig's privileges, a prerequisite for a personal union with the King of Poland. It was confirmed in 1466 by the Second Peace of Thorn which secured a large decree of autonomy for Royal Prussia. The Prussian Ius indigenatus was valid for both parts of Prussia separated in 1466, the western part, later called Royal Prussia, and the eastern part, from 1525 the Duchy of Prussia, later East Prussia. \n\nAt times this Prussian birthright (nationality), has been frequently ignored by the Polish side in later centuries. \n\nIn Silesia, the Silesian Ius indigenatus was customary as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59122740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59122740", "title": "Jury sentencing", "text": "Jury sentencing\n\nJury sentencing is the practice, in some U.S. states, of having juries decide what penalties to give those who have been convicted of criminal offenses. The practice of jury sentencing began in Virginia in the 18th century and spread westward to other states that were influenced by Virginia-trained lawyers. As of 2018, Arkansas, Kentucky, Missouri, Oklahoma, Texas, and Virginia have sentencing by jury. Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, Illinois, Mississippi, Montana, Tennessee, and West Virginia had jury sentencing in times past, but then abandoned it.\n\nProponents of jury sentencing argue that since sentencing involves fact-finding (a task traditionally within the purview of juries), and since the original intent of the founders was to have juries check judges' power, it is the proper role of juries to participate in sentencing. Opponents argue that judges' training and experience with the use of presentence reports and sentencing guidelines, as well as the fact that jury control procedures typically deprive juries of the opportunity to hear information about the defendant's background during the trial, make it more practical to have judges sentence defendants.\n\nThe impetus for introducing jury sentencing was that in the late 18th century, punishment options expanded beyond shaming sanctions and the mandatory death penalty and came to include various ranges and modes of imprisonment, creating more room for case-by-case decisionmaking to which juries were thought to be well-suited.\n\nVirginia was the first state to adopt jury sentencing. The state's first constitution was enacted in 1776, and shortly thereafter, in 1779, Thomas Jefferson proposed to the Virginia General Assembly a revised criminal code that would have eliminated pardons and benefit of clergy, abolished capital punishment for most offenses, and allowed juries to decide punishments when the penalty was discretionary. This bill failed, however, both in 1779 and 1786, after James Madison had reintroduced it while Jefferson was in France.\n\nSentencing by jury was, however, successfully enacted in Virginia's 1796 penal code, which like the 1779 bill replaced capital punishment with terms of imprisonment for most felony offenses. Kentucky adopted a penal reform bill introduced by John Breckenridge that implemented sentencing by jury in 1798. While in Virginia, magistrates continued to have misdemeanor sentencing power (possibly because of the political influence of magistrates who served in the General Assembly), in Kentucky, this power was given to juries. Kentucky juries tried and sentenced slaves and free blacks, and even decided cases involving prison discipline, imposing punishments such as flagellation or solitary confinement for infractions. Georgia and Tennessee adopted sentencing by jury in 1816 and 1829, respectively.\n\nIn contrast, northern states such as Pennsylvania, Maryland, New Jersey, and New York allowed judges to determine penalties, with Pennsylvania also allowing judges to pardon prisoners who, in their view, had evidenced sincere reformation. One hypothesis is that Virginia opted for jury sentencing because Federalists like George Keith Taylor distrusted the Republican district court judges; while in Pennsylvania, the Constitutionalists sought (over the objections of Republicans) to put sentencing power in the hands of the judges because the bench was populated by Constitutionalists. North Carolina, South Carolina, and Florida, which did not establish penitentiaries until after the American Civil War, also left sentencing to judges' discretion.\n\nThe adoption of jury sentencing happened at the same time that the movement for an elective judiciary gathered speed, with at least four states, Alabama, Mississippi, Montana, and North Dakota switching to judicial elections around the same time that they adopted jury sentencing. Both reforms may have been due to a mistrust of unelected judges.\n\nDuring the ten years of the Republic of Texas, judges determined sentences. The \nchange to jury determination of the penalty was brought about by one of the first laws passed by the first legislature of the State of Texas in 1846, which empowered the jury to sentence the defendant in all criminal cases except capital cases and cases for which punishment was fixed by law.\n\nIndiana, Illinois, Arkansas, Oklahoma, and West Virginia adopted jury sentencing later in the 19th century.\n\nThe 1895 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in \"Sparf v. United States\" reflected growing concern that letting juries decide whether or how the law should be applied in particular cases could be detrimental to the rule of law. By 1910, the role of juries in determining penalties was being eroded by the professionalization of sentencing, as many states passed laws that created parole and probation systems.\n\nThese systems were based on a consequentialist philosophy that it would be more useful for society to focus on finding ways to prevent future crime than on fixing blame for crime that had occurred in the past. Criminal behavior was viewed as the result of such factors as heredity, social circumstances, random breeding, and Darwinian struggle, rather than an abuse of divinely-granted free will. Psychology and sociology would determine the causes of crime and what social reforms and treatment programs would correct them.\n\nProbation officers gathered and analyzed information about the defendant's character and prepared a presentence report that served as the basis for the ultimate sentence. Probation provided opportunities for treatment in the community for juveniles and adults. In the prison system, parole commissioners, trained in penology and insulated from political pressures, determined when prisoners had been rehabilitated and could be reintegrated into society.\n\nThe process of preparing a presentence report, which takes weeks, only begins after the defendant is convicted, since if he/she were to be acquitted, the effort that went into preparing the report would be wasted. It would, therefore, not be possible for juries to sentence the defendant at the time of conviction, if the jury needed to rely on a presentence report in making its sentencing decision; rather, the jury would need to be broken up and reassembled later, which could be unworkable if the delay between verdict and sentencing is substantial.\n\nFurthermore, jury control procedures typically provide that during the trial, information about the defendant's background that is not relevant to the issue of guilt is not to be presented in the presence of the jury, lest it prejudice him. The assumptions that presentence reports would be more informative than presentence hearings, and that training and experience were required to intelligently consider the data and assess sanctions, militated in favor of having a judge rather than a jury do the sentencing. In the case of \"McKeiver v Pennsylvania\", the U.S. Supreme Court held that alleged juvenile delinquents have no right to a jury trial, with Harry Blackmun and three other Justices opining that an adversarial system would put an end to the prospect of a intimate, informal protective proceeding focused on rehabilitation.\n\nGeorgia and Tennessee both had periods (from 1937-1939, and from 1913-1923, respectively) in which they briefly abandoned jury sentencing while experimenting with indeterminate sentencing. By 1919, fourteen states gave juries sentencing powers in non-capital cases, although by 1960, that number had dropped to thirteen.\n\nBy the 1970s and 1980s, determinate sentencing, a new intellectual current that repudiated the rehabilitative model with its focus on using mathematical models and grids to determine sentences, had made inroads, making jury sentencing seem like more of an anachronism. Georgia permanently abandoned jury sentencing in 1974 and Tennessee did the same in 1982. By the 1980s, Alabama, Illinois, Indiana, Montana, and North Dakota had also abandoned jury sentencing, and Mississippi was using jury sentencing only in rape and statutory rape cases. Oklahoma abolished jury sentencing but reinstated it in 1999.\n\nAccording to some commentators, the time is ripe for a revival of jury sentencing, because flaws in the determinate sentencing systems are becoming increasingly apparent. Lawmakers drafting legislation such as the Sentencing Reform Act have had difficulty mustering the political will to make clear choices among opposing moral and ideological viewpoints, instead delegating these decisions to agencies that lack the representativeness and democratic origin of legislatures. Prosecutors have routinely circumvented the sentencing guidelines through their charging and plea bargaining decisions, creating a new set of disparities, despite the intent of the guidelines to curtail disparities. Determinate sentencing has also failed to reduce racial disparity in sentencing.\n\nAlso, some juries have been acquitting guilty defendants to save them from what they regard as overly harsh mandatory minimum sentences, such as those imposed by the Rockefeller Drug Laws and California's three-strikes law. There have been movements to abolish sentencing commissions and guideline systems and inform jurors of their right to nullify. Decisions like \"Apprendi v. New Jersey\" (requiring a jury, rather than a judge, to find any facts that would increase a defendant's maximum sentence) and \"Ring v. Arizona\" (requiring a jury, rather than a judge, to find whether there are aggravating factors justifying capital punishment) have also signaled a willingness by the judiciary to expand the role of the jury in the legal process.\n\nJury sentencing has been seen as a way to in many cases render moot the questions raised by \"Apprendi\" and related cases such as \"Blakely v. Washington\" and \"United States v. Booker\" about the differences between elements of an offense and sentencing factors by letting the jury decide all the facts. Cases such as \"Miller v. Alabama\" and \"Graham v. Florida\" (banning mandatory life imprisonment without parole, and life imprisonment without parole in non-homicide cases, respectively, for juveniles, as contrary to the Eighth Amendment to the United States Constitution's prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment) also raise a question of whether the Supreme Court logically should allow only a jury, rather than a judge, to determine a juvenile should receive such a sentence, given the parallels between adult capital punishment case law and juvenile life imprisonment with parole case law.\n\nIn Virginia, under the 1796 act, capital punishment remained mandatory for first-degree murder, but the penalty for second-degree murder was any term between five and eighteen years in the penitentiary. The 1796 act gave the court in murder cases the authority to \"determine the degree of the crime, and to give sentence accordingly\" when a defendant was \"convicted by confession.\" The judge's discretion to set sentences in cases of confession did not exist in Kentucky.\n\nIn Missouri, informing juries of sentences of defendants in similar cases or the sentences of co-participants in the crime on trial is strictly prohibited under the rules of evidence.\" Similarly, the Kentucky truth in sentencing statute, which generally increases the information available to sentencing juries, does not provide for sentencing guidelines and statistics. Kentucky courts have also held parole eligibility statistics inadmissible. The military at one time provided jurors with sentencing statistics and guidelines was the military, but this practice ended in the late 1950s as the military's judicial philosophy shifted its emphasis away from sentencing uniformity and towards individualized judgments. The United States Court of Military Appeals held that jurors were not to consider sentences in similar cases or to consult the sentencing manual.\n\nUnder Virginia's current system, jurors are controversially not allowed access to the Commonwealth's sentencing guidelines or to information about whether sentences will run consecutively or concurrently, and until 2000 were also not informed that parole had been abolished in Virginia. A judge must justify any departure from the jury's recommendation in writing to the Virginia Criminal Sentencing Commission. Less than one-quarter of jury-recommended sentences are modified by judges. Due to concerns about juries' imposing higher sentences than what the sentencing guidelines would suggest, many defendants opt either for bench trials or plea bargains.\n\nStates with jury sentencing have often allowed judges to intervene in the sentencing process, e.g. by reducing the sentence imposed by the jury, imposing hard labor or solitary confinement in addition to the jury's assessment of fines, or determining the place of confinement imposed by the jury. In Alabama, judges were allowed to override juries' recommendations of life imprisonment and impose capital punishment instead, until a 2017 law took that power away. All jury sentencing states except Texas allow the judge to fix the punishment in case the jury fails to agree on a sentence, making it impossible for there to be a mistrial due to a hung jury at sentencing.\n\nArguments that have been raised for sentencing by jury are that judges can be arbitrary (depending, e.g., on their mood at the time of sentencing) and partisan, and that putting the same person in charge of both deciding sentences and extending leniency (e.g. through pardons) centralizes too much power in one person. Also, different judges may be inconsistent in the judgments they render. Another argument in favor of jury sentencing is that the punishment equitably due is best determined by the particular circumstances of the case, rather than by legal technicalities; and that a jury is well-equipped for this purpose. Also, if juries have power to give a lenient sentence, they may be less likely to engage in jury nullification by acquitting a guilty defendant whom they believe is undeserving of severe punishment.\n\nAn argument based on the Sixth and Seventh Amendments to the United States Constitution is that criminal and civil juries have similar societal functions, including checking the abuse of governmental power, injecting community values into legal decisions, and aiding public acceptance of legal determinations; and therefore the criminal system should have juries decide sentences much as the civil system has juries decide judgments.\n\nArguments that have been raised against sentencing by jury are that juries are not as accountable as judges; that putting them in charge of determining both guilt and the sentence concentrates too much power in one body; and that different juries may differ widely in the sentences they impose. Counterarguments are that the lack of accountability of jurors to a higher authority preserves their judicial independence, and that judges are also capable of differing from other judges in the sentences they impose. Judges may even deviate from their own usual sentencing practices if the case is high-profile or a judicial election is coming up. Also, disparities are not always a sign of arbitrariness; sometimes they may reflect geographical differences in public attitudes toward a given crime, or a jury's taking proper account of the individual circumstances of each offender.\n\nIt is sometimes argued that an unreasonable juror may force the rest of the jury into an undesirable compromise to find the defendant guilty but impose an overly light sentence. A counter-argument is that whether this is bad or good is a matter of perception since \"one juror's principled holdout is another juror's irrational nullification. One jury's 'compromise' is another jury's perfectly appropriate give-and-take deliberations.\"\n\nAccording to University of Chicago Law School lecturer Jenia Iontcheva, sentencing decisions are well-suited to being made through a process of deliberative democracy rather than by experts such as judges, since they involve deeply contested moral and political issues rather than scientific or technical issues. She argues that since sentencing requires individualized, case-by-case assessments, sentences should be decided through small-scale deliberation by juries, as opposed to having lawmakers codify general policies for mechanical application by judges.\n\nAn advantage Iontcheva cites of having juries come together to deliberate on sentences is that the jurors may alter their preferences in the light of new perspectives. She argues that the hearing and consideration of diverse opinions will give the sentencing decisions greater legitimacy, and that engaging ordinary citizens in government through this process of deliberative democracy will give these citizens confidence about their ability to influence political decisions and thus increase their willingness to participate in politics even after the end of their jury service. Racial and other minorities may also benefit from having greater representation among jurors than among judges.\n\nIn jurisdictions that do not have any statutory provisions formally allowing jury sentencing, judges have sometimes consulted with the jury on sentencing anyway. At the federal level, the practice of polling the jury and using their input in sentencing was upheld on appeal by the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.\n\nSentencing is said to be more time-consuming for jurors than the relatively easy task of ascertaining guilt or innocence, which means an increase in jury fees and in the amount of productivity lost to jury duty. In New South Wales, a 2007 proposal by Chief Justice Jim Spigelman to involve juries in sentencing was rejected after District Court Chief Judge Reg Blanch cited \"an expected wide difference of views between jurors about questions relating to sentence\". Concerns about jury tampering through intimidation by defendants were also raised.\n\nGermany and many other continental European countries have a system in which professional judges and lay judges deliberate together at both the trial and sentencing stages; such systems have been praised as a superior alternative because the mixed court dispenses with most of the time‐consuming practices of jury control that characterize Anglo‐American trial procedure, yet serves the purposes of a jury trial better than plea bargaining and bench trials, which have displaced the jury from routine American practice.\n\nCivil rights leader James Bevel was sentenced to 15 years in prison pursuant to the recommendation of a Virginia jury that found him guilty of having sex with his teenage daughter in the 1990s when they lived in Leesburg. The sentencing range had been 5 to 20 years.\n"}
{"id": "1095131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1095131", "title": "Kinesthetic learning", "text": "Kinesthetic learning\n\nKinesthetic learning (American English), kinaesthetic learning (British English), or tactile learning is a learning style in which learning takes place by the students carrying out physical activities, rather than listening to a lecture or watching demonstrations. As cited by Favre (2009), Dunn and Dunn define kinesthetic learners as students who require whole-body movement to process new and difficult information.\nKinesthetic intelligence, which was originally coupled with tactile abilities, was defined and discussed in Howard Gardner's \"\" in 1983. In this book, Gardner describes activities such as dancing and performing surgery as requiring great kinesthetic intelligence: using the body to create (or do) something.\n\nMargaret H'Doubler wrote and spoke about kinesthetic learning during the 1940s, defining kinesthetic learning as the human body's ability to express itself through movement and dance.\n\nNeil Fleming, a New Zealand teacher and educational theorist, designed the VARK model (visual, aural or auditory, read/write and kinesthetic). According to Fleming’s model, kinesthetic learners are similar to tactile learners in that they like hands-on experiential learning. They excel in concrete learning such as on-the-job training, work experience, internships, simulations and so forth (Kte’pi, 2016).\n\nThe Fleming VAK/VARK model (one of the most common and widely used categorizations of the various types of learning styles) categorized learning styles as follows:\nSkill memory also fits into the category of kinesthetic learning, as it is what happens when somebody is learning kinesthetically. Skill memories are difficult to convey except by direct demonstration, may be acquired without awareness, and require several repetitions.\n\nRita Dunn contends that kinesthetic and tactile learning are the same style. Galeet BenZion asserts that kinesthetic and tactile learning are separate learning styles, with different characteristics. She defined kinesthetic learning as the process that results in new knowledge (or understanding) with the involvement of the learner's body movement. This movement is performed to establish new knowledge or extend existing knowledge. Kinesthetic learning is at its best, BenZion found, when the learner uses language (their own words) in order to define, explain, resolve and sort out how their body's movement reflects the concept explored. One example is a student using movement to work out the sum of 1/2 plus 3/4 via movement, then explaining how their motions in space reflect the mathematical process leading to the correct answer.\n\nIn addition, Denig (2004) in his article ‘Multiple Intelligences and Learning Styles: Two Complementary Dimensions’, presented Dunn and Dunn’s Learning Styles Model, which addresses 21 elements that affect students’ learning. These elements are broken down into five stimuli: environmental, emotional, sociological, physiological and psychological variables. Under this model, physiological stimuli consist of four elements, one of which is perceptual. Perceptual depicts the auditory, visual, tactual and kinesthetic styles whereby learners learn more effectively. This gives meaning to the concept that kinesthetic learners learn best through whole-body activities and experiences while tactual learners learn best through manipulation of items with their hands.\n\nDepending upon memory systems the kinesthetic learners respond differently. The different kinds of learners mainly include whole body learners, hands-on learners, doodlers, students learning through emotional experiences. The learning and the memory is generally short term. To achieve a long term memory different techniques can be used depending on the learning style. Mind mapping, story mapping, webbing, drawing can be used to enhance the learning of a doodler. For the hands-on learner, role play, clay, building and math manipulative can be used. The whole book body learner can learn better through role-playing, body mapping, puzzles and use of computer technology which allows for certain movement while learning. Students can be engaged in group activities and activities which involve bodily movement such as dance, drama, sports can be used to nurture their learning. The following strategies can be used to facilitate kinesthetic memory through procedural motor pathway such as:\nThe kinesthetic learners who have memories associated with emotions learning can be facilitated through dance, debate, drama, role-play, and charades. This kind of learning leads to a long-term memory since it is associated with emotions such as excitement, curiosity, anger, disappointment and success.\n\nPerceptual-motor skills are skills learned by movement patterns guided by sensory inputs. There are closed skills and open skills. Closed skills are skills learned such as dance. A ballerina learns a specific set of moves and doesn’t stray from the exact routine, which is why it is called a closed skill; there is one option. Open skills are skills that require more flexibility in learning such as team sports. A person learning how to play football learns multiple drills, strategies, and practices scrimmages in order to learn how to work in multiple types of environments. Because no football game is the same, and a person can't know going into a game the exact steps the other team is going to take, open skills are required to become successful. Cognitive skills also are a part of kinesthetic learning, perceptual learning, and skill memories. Some people learn better in an environment that is more hands-on, and this builds their cognitive skills as well. Cognitive skills are skills which require individuals to solve problems or apply strategies rather than to move their bodies based on what they perceive. Solving a puzzle would be an example of a cognitive skill.\n\nLearners with kinesthetic preferences learn through active movements and experiences. Activities such as playing, puppetry, drama, acting and designing ensures involvement of the learners. Thus, it is also important to manage the students during such activities.\n\nSome effective strategies used to involve unmotivated students during activities are:\nSome effective strategies used to manage hyper motivated students are:\n\nSubjects can be taught to cater for kinesthetic learners. Through a strength-based and learner-centered approach, educators should engage kinesthetic students in activities that require movements because they learn by doing. Activities could include role-plays, drama, dance, races and competitions, field trips and projects.\n\nFavre (2009) stated that instructional strategies should include movement in a game-like format. Favre suggested designing kinesthetic games. For example, “game boards such as Tic-Tac-Toe affixed to the classroom floor and hopscotch template painted on the playground tarmac or sidewalks around the school” (p. 32). Favre also suggested that instructors can use “commercial games such as Twister, Jeopardy and Nerf basketball and create game cards that align with their lesson objectives” (pp.32-33) . \n\nReese & Dunn (2007) in their research of college freshmen learning styles provided recommended that \"to ensure success for kinesthetic learners, classes should provide active experiences for planning or carrying out objectives, such as visits, project, role playing, simulations and floor or wall games\"(p. 108). \n\nAlthough the concept of learning styles is popular among educators in some countries (and children and adults express preferences for particular modes of learning), there is no evidence that identifying a student's learning style produces better outcomes; on the contrary, there is substantial evidence that the meshing hypothesis (that a student will learn best if taught in a method deemed appropriate for the student's learning style) is invalid. Well-designed studies \"flatly contradict the popular meshing hypothesis\".\n\nProponents state that the evidence related to kinesthetic learners benefiting from specialized instruction (or targeted materials) appears mixed at best; the diagnosis of kinesthetic and tactile learning is coupled (rather than isolated), and teachers are likely to misdiagnose students' learning styles.\n\nOn the other hand, studies do show that mixed-modality presentations (for instance, using auditory and visual techniques) improve results in a variety of subjects. Instruction that stimulates more than auditory learning (for example, kinesthetic learning) is more likely to enhance learning in a heterogeneous student population.\n\nThere are three parts of the brain that are the most important to kinesthetic and skill learning. The basal ganglia, cerebral cortex, and the cerebellum all play equally important roles in the ability to learn new skills and master them.\n\nThe basal ganglia are a collection of ganglia (clusters of neurons) that lie at the base of the forebrain. The basal ganglia receive information from other parts of the brain such as the hippocampus and cortical areas that send messages about the outside world. Most of these messages are sensory, meaning what a person is physically feeling. The basal ganglia then interpret this information and sends it on a path to the thalamus and the brainstem which both play large factors in physical movement. Therefore, the basal ganglia are the beginning of the process for somebody who is learning-by-doing to respond viscerally to the stimuli around them. It is important once a skill is learned to practice it. This can change how basal ganglia circuits participate in the performance of that skill and that synaptic plasticity is a basic neural mechanism enabling such changes. The more a person practices, the more plasticity they develop.\n\nThe cerebral cortex is the brain tissue covering the top and sides of the brain in most vertebrates. It is involved in storing and processing of sensory inputs and motor outputs. In the human brain, the cerebral cortex is actually a sheet of neural tissue about 1/8th inch thick. The sheet is folded so that it can fit inside the skull. The neural circuits in this area of the brain expand with practice of an activity, just like the synaptic plasticity grows with practice. Clarification of some of the mechanisms of learning by neuro science has been advanced, in part, by the advent of non-invasive imaging technologies, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and functional magnetic resonance imaging (FMRI). These technologies have allowed researchers to observe human learning processes directly. Through these types of technologies, we are now able to see and study what happens in the process of learning. In different tests performed the brain being imaged showed a greater blood flow and activation to that area of the brain being stimulated through different activities such as finger tapping in a specific sequence. It has been revealed that the process at the beginning of learning a new skill happens quickly, and later on slows down to almost a plateau. This process can also be referred to as The Law of Learning. The slower learning showed in the FMRI that in the cerebral cortex this was when the long term learning was occurring, suggesting that the structural changes in the cortex reflect the enhancement of skill memories during later stages of training. When a person studies a skill for a longer duration of time, but in a shorter amount of time they will learn quickly, but also only retain the information into their short-term memory. Just like studying for an exam; if a student tries to learn everything the night before, it will not stick in the long run. If a person studies a skill for a shorter duration of time, but more frequently and long-term, their brain will retain this information much longer as it is stored in the long-term memory. Functional and structural studies of the brain have revealed a vast interconnectivity between diverse regions of the cerebral cortex. For example, large numbers of axons interconnect the posterior sensory areas serving vision, audition, and touch with anterior motor regions. Constant communication between sensation and movement makes sense, because to execute smooth movement through the environment, movement must be continuously integrated with knowledge about one's surroundings obtained via sensory perception. The cerebral cortex plays a role in allowing humans to do this.\n\nThe cerebellum is critical to the ability for a human or animal to be able to regulate movement. This area of the brain wraps around the brainstem and is very densely packed with neurons and neural connections. This part of the brain is involved in timing as well as movement. It assists in predicting events, especially in the formation, execution, and timing of conditioned responses. The cerebellum plays a very important role in all forms of kinesthetic learning and motor function. For a ballerina, it is important to be able to control their movements and time it exactly right for their routine. For a football player it is important to be able to regulate movement when running throwing, and being able to have control over where the ball goes as well as the timing of it.\n\nAll three of these important systems in the brain function together as a team, one not being more important than the other. They work together to allow for responding to sensory events, timing, controlling physical actions, and more. However, it is important to remember than unless a person is actively practicing, these parts of the brain won't help them get to their full potential. Alterations in the brain that occur during learning seem to make the nerve cells more efficient or powerful. Studies have shown that animals raised in complex environments have a greater volume of capillaries per nerve cell—and therefore a greater supply of blood to the brain—than the caged animals, regardless of whether the caged animal lived alone or with companions. Overall, these studies depict an orchestrated pattern of increased capacity in the brain that depends on experience.\n\n"}
{"id": "42923391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42923391", "title": "Kleene's algorithm", "text": "Kleene's algorithm\n\nIn theoretical computer science, in particular in formal language theory, Kleene's algorithm transforms a given deterministic finite automaton (DFA) into a regular expression. \nTogether with other conversion algorithms, it establishes the equivalence of several description formats for regular languages.\n\nAccording to Gross and Yellen (2004), the algorithm can be traced back to Kleene (1956).\n\nThis description follows Hopcroft and Ullman (1979).\nGiven a deterministic finite automaton \"M\" = (\"Q\", Σ, δ, \"q\", \"F\"), with \"Q\" = { \"q\"...,\"q\" } its set of states, the algorithm computes \nHere, \"going through a state\" means entering \"and\" leaving it, so both \"i\" and \"j\" may be higher than \"k\", but no intermediate state may.\nEach set \"R\" is represented by a regular expression; the algorithm computes them step by step for \"k\" = -1, 0, ..., \"n\". Since there is no state numbered higher than \"n\", the regular expression \"R\" represents the set of all strings that take \"M\" from its start state \"q\" to \"q\". If \"F\" = { \"q\"...,\"q\" } is the set of accept states, the regular expression \"R\" | ... | \"R\" represents the language accepted by \"M\".\n\nThe initial regular expressions, for \"k\" = -1, are computed as\n\nAfter that, in each step the expressions \"R\" are computed from the previous ones by\n\nBy induction on \"k\", it can be shown that the length of each expression \"R\" is at most symbols, where \"s\" denotes the number of characters in Σ.\nTherefore, the length of the regular expression representing the language accepted by \"M\" is at most symbols, where \"f\" denotes the number of final states.\n\nThe automaton shown in the picture can be described as \"M\" = (\"Q\", Σ, δ, \"q\", \"F\") with\n\nKleene's algorithm computes the initial regular expressions as\n\nAfter that, the \"R\" are computed from the \"R\" step by step for \"k\" = 0, 1, 2.\nKleene algebra equalities are used to simplify the regular expressions as much as possible.\n\n\n\n\nSince \"q\" is the start state and \"q\" is the only accept state, the regular expression \"R\" denotes the set of all strings accepted by the automaton.\n\n"}
{"id": "435318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=435318", "title": "Laïcité", "text": "Laïcité\n\nLaïcité (), literally \"secularity\", is a French concept of secularism. It discourages religious involvement in government affairs, especially religious influence in the determination of state policies; it also forbids government involvement in religious affairs, and especially prohibits government influence in the determination of religion.\n\nDictionaries ordinarily translate \"laïcité\" as \"secularity\" or \"secularism\" (the latter being the political system), although it is sometimes rendered in English as \"laicity\" or \"laicism\" by its opponents. While the term was first used with this meaning in 1871 in the dispute over the removal of religious teachers and instruction from elementary schools, the word \"laïcisme\" dates to 1842.\n\nIn its strict and official acceptance, it is the principle of separation of church (or religion) and state. Etymologically, \"laïcité\" is a noun formed by adding the suffix \"-ité\" (English \"-ity\", Latin \"-itās\") to the Latin adjective \"lāicus\", a loanword from the Greek λᾱϊκός (\"lāïkós\" \"of the people\", \"layman\"), the adjective from (\"lāós\" \"people\").\n\nFrench secularism has a long history. For the last century, the French government policy has been based on the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State.\n\nLaïcité is a concept rooted in the French Revolution, as it started to develop since the French Third Republic, after the Republicans gained control of the state.\n\nThe word \"laïcité\" has been used, from the end of the 19th century on, to mean the freedom of public institutions, especially primary schools, from the influence of the Catholic Church in countries where it had retained its influence, in the context of a secularization process. Today, the concept covers other religious movements as well.\n\nProponents assert the French state secularism is based on respect for freedom of thought and freedom of religion. Thus the absence of a state religion, and the subsequent separation of the state and Church, is considered by proponents to be a prerequisite for such freedom of thought. Proponents maintain that \"laïcité\" is thus distinct from anti-clericalism, which actively opposes the influence of religion and the clergy. \"Laïcité\" relies on the division between private life, where adherents believe religion belongs, and the public sphere, in which each individual, adherents believe, should appear as a simple citizen equal to all other citizens, devoid of ethnic, religious or other particularities. According to this concept, the government must refrain from taking positions on religious doctrine and only consider religious subjects for their practical consequences on inhabitants' lives.\n\nSupporters argue that \"laïcité\" by itself does not necessarily imply any hostility of the government with respect to religion. It is best described as a belief that government and political issues should be kept separate from religious organizations and religious issues (as long as the latter do not have notable social consequences). This is meant to protect both the government from any possible interference from religious organizations, and to protect the religious organization from political quarrels and controversies.\n\nCritics of \"laïcité\" argue that it is a disguised form of anti-clericalism and infringement on individual right to religious expression, and that, instead of promoting freedom of thought and freedom of religion, it prevents the believer from observing his or her religion.\n\nAnother critique is that, in countries historically dominated by one religious tradition, officially avoiding taking any positions on religious matters favors the dominant religious tradition of the relevant country. Even in the current French Fifth Republic (1958–), school holidays mostly follow the Christian liturgical year, that include Christmas and holiday seasons, though Easter holidays have been replaced by Spring holidays which may or may not include Easter, depending on the vagaries of the liturgical calendar. However, schools have long given leave to students for important holidays of their specific non-majority religions, and food menus served in secondary schools pay particular attention to ensuring that each religious observer may respect his religion's specific restrictions concerning diets.\n\nOther countries, following in the French model, have forms of Laïcité – examples include Albania, Mexico and Turkey.\n\nThe principle of \"laïcité\" in France is implemented through a number of policies. The French government is legally prohibited from recognizing any \"religion\" (except for legacy statutes like those of military chaplains and the local law of Alsace-Moselle). Instead, it recognizes \"religious organizations\", according to formal legal criteria that do not address religious doctrine:\n\nFrench political leaders, though not by any means prohibited from making religious remarks, mostly refrain from it. Religious considerations are generally considered incompatible with reasoned political debate. Political leaders may openly practice their religion but they are expected to differentiate their religious beliefs from their political arguments. Christine Boutin, who openly argued on religious grounds against a legal domestic partnership available regardless of the sex of the partners, quickly became the butt of late-night comedy jokes.\n\nThe term was originally the French equivalent of the term laity, that is, everyone who is not clergy. After the French Revolution this meaning changed and it came to mean keeping religion separate from the executive, judicial, and legislative branches of government. This includes prohibitions on having a state religion, as well as for the government to endorse any religious position, be it a religion or atheism.\n\nAlthough the term was current throughout the 19th century, France did not fully separate church and state until the passage of its 1905 law on the separation of the Churches and the State, prohibiting the state from recognizing or funding any religion. The notion of laïcité as a legal principle is open to question, because it is never defined as such by the text of a law. The 1905 law establishing separation did not use the word laïcité. It was not until the Constitution of 1946 (Constitution de 1946, IVe République) that the word appeared explicitly as a constitutional principle entailing legal effect, but without being further specified. All religious buildings in France (mostly Catholic churches, Protestant chapels, and Jewish synagogues) became the property of the city councils. Those now have the duty to maintain the (often historical) buildings but cannot subsidize the religious organizations using them. In areas that were part of Germany at that time, and which did not return to France until 1918, some arrangements for the cooperation of church and state are still in effect today (see Alsace-Moselle).\n\n\"Laïcité\" is a core concept in the French constitution, Article 1 of which formally states that France is a secular republic (\"\"La France est une République indivisible, laïque, démocratique et sociale\".\") This, however, does not prevent an active role on the part of the state (President of the Republic, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of the Interior) in the appointment of Catholic diocesan bishops – see Briand-Ceretti Agreement: the President of the French Republic is the only head of state in the world (except the Pope) who still appoints Catholic bishops (in Strasbourg and Metz); moreover, he is an honorary Canon in several cathedrals and basilicas, most notably in the Archbasilica of Saint John in Laterano, the Cathedral of the Pope. Many see being discreet with one's religion as a necessary part of being French. This has led to frequent divisions with some non-Christian immigrants, especially with part of France's large Muslim population. A debate took place over whether any religious apparel or displays by individuals, such as the Islamic hijab, Sikh turban, (large) Christian crosses, and Jewish Stars of David and kippah, should be banned from public schools. Such a ban came into effect in France in 2004; see French law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools. In the spring of 2011 there was a reinforcement of \"laïcité\" in hospitals, advocated by the Minister of the Interior, Claude Guéant, and in public service generally, by the official non-discrimination agency, la HALDE. The simultaneous broadcasting of the traditional Protestant and Catholic Lent sermons (operating since 1946) has been interrupted. Earlier the broadcasting of the Russian Orthodox Christmas night liturgy was similarly stopped on 6/7 January.\n\nThe strict separation of church and state which began with the 1905 law has evolved into what some religious leaders see as a \"form of political correctness that made bringing religion into public affairs a major taboo\". Former President Sarkozy initially criticised this approach as a \"negative laïcité\" and wanted to develop a \"positive laïcité\" that recognizes the contribution of faith to French culture, history and society, allows for faith in the public discourse and for government subsidies for faith-based groups. Sarkozy saw France's main religions as positive contributions to French society. He visited the pope in December 2007 and publicly acknowledged France's Christian roots, while highlighting the importance of freedom of thought, arguing that faith should come back into the public sphere. In line with Sarkozy's views on the need for reform of \"laïcité\", Pope Benedict XVI on September 12, 2008 said it was time to revisit the debate over the relationship between church and state, advocating a \"healthy\" form of \"laïcité\". Meeting with Sarkozy, he stated: \"In fact, it is fundamental, on the one hand, to insist upon the distinction between the political realm and that of religion in order to preserve both the religious freedom of citizens and the responsibility of the state toward them.\" He went on: \"On the other hand, [it is important] to become more aware of the irreplaceable role of religion for the formation of consciences and the contribution which it can bring to – among other things – the creation of a basic ethical consensus within society.\"\n\nSarkozy later changed footing on the place of religion in French society, by publicly declaring the burqa \"not welcome\" in France in 2009 and favoring legislation to outlaw it, following which in February 2010 a post office robbery took place by two burqa-clad robbers, ethnicity unknown, who after entering the post office removed their veils. Following March 2011 local elections strong disagreement appeared within the governing UMP over the appropriateness of holding a debate on \"laïcité\" as desired by the President of the Republic. On 30 March a letter appeared in La Croix signed by representatives of six religious bodies opposing the appropriateness of such a debate.\n\nA law was passed on April 11, 2011 with strong support from political parties as well as from Sarkozy which made it illegal to hide the face in public spaces, affecting a few thousand women in France wearing the niqab and the burqa.\n\nScholar Olivier Roy has argued that the burkini bans and secularist policies of France provoked religious violence in France, to which Gilles Kepel responded that Britain which has no such policies still suffered a greater number of jihadist attacks in 2017 than France.\n\nIn Belgium, \"laïcité\" refers to the separation between church and state, although under the Belgian constitution ministers of religion are paid with government funds.\n\nThe constitution was amended in 1991 to give the same right to persons fulfilling secular functions. Public schools must now offer pupils the choice between religion and secular courses.\n\nPublic discourse in Quebec, the only predominantly French-speaking province in Canada, has been greatly influenced by the \"laïcité\" of France since the 1960s. Prior to this time, Quebec was seen as a very observant Catholic society, where Catholicism was a \"de facto\" state religion. Quebec then underwent a period of rapid secularization called the Quiet Revolution. Quebec politicians have tended to adopt a more European-style understanding of secularism than is practised elsewhere in Canada. This came to the fore during the debate on what constitutes the \"reasonable accommodation\" of religious minorities.\n\nIn the fall of 2013, the government of Quebec proposed Bill 60, the \"Charter affirming the values of State secularism and religious neutrality and of equality between women and men, and providing a framework for\naccommodation requests.\" The bill would alter the provincial human rights law to prohibit public employees from wearing objects that overtly indicate a religious preference. The people who would be most impacted by such a law would be Muslim women wearing a hijab, Jewish men wearing a kippah, and Sikh men (or women) wearing a turban. Employees who do not comply with the law would be terminated from their employment.\n\nBill 60 follows a European secularism model versus the United States model. Unlike secularism under the U.S. Constitution, it does not interpret \"laïcité\" to include a right to the \"free exercise\" of religion nor does it create a policy against governmental \"establishment\" of religion. The bill also leaves untouched current practices in Quebec that would violate the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, such as the use of public funds for private and religious schools and the creation of a values / ethics curriculum component in all secondary schools where students are regularly asked to give a profession of their religious faith. The party that had proposed the bill, the Parti Québécois, was defeated in the 2014 election by the provincial Liberal party (who hold a majority of seats) which opposed the bill. As a result, the bill is considered 'dead'.\n\nLaïcité influenced in the Constitution of Mexico. In March 2010, the lower house of the Mexican legislature introduced legislation to amend the Constitution to make the Mexican government formally \"laico\" – meaning \"lay\" or \"secular\". Critics of the move say the \"context surrounding the amendment suggests that it might be a step backwards for religious liberty and true separation of church and state\".\n\nComing on the heels of the Church's vocal objection to legalization of abortion as well as same sex unions and adoptions in Mexico City, \"together with some statements of its supporters, suggests that it might be an attempt to suppress the Catholic Church's ability to engage in public policy debates\". Mexico has had a . Critics of the amendment reject the idea that \"Utilitarians, Nihilists, Capitalists, and Socialists can all bring their philosophy to bear on public life, but Catholics (or religious minorities) must check their religion at the door\" in a sort of \"second-class citizenship\" which they consider nothing more than religious discrimination.\n\nIn Turkey, a strong stance of secularism (\"Laiklik\" in Turkish) has held sway since Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's Turkish revolution in the early 20th century. On March 3, 1924, Turkey removed the caliphate system and gradually after that, all religious influence from the state. Sunni Islam, the majority religion, is now controlled by the Turkish government through the Department of Religious Affairs, and is state-funded while other religions or sects have independence on religious affairs. Islamic views which are deemed political are censored in accordance with the principle of secularism.\n\nThis system of Turkish laïcité permeates both the government and religious sphere. The content of the weekly sermons in all state funded mosques has to be approved by the state. Also, independent Sunni communities are illegal. Minority religions, like Armenian or Greek Orthodoxy, are guaranteed by the constitution as \"individual\" faiths and are mostly tolerated, but this guarantee does not give any rights to any \"religious communities\" including Muslim ones. Turkey's view is that the Treaty of Lausanne gives certain religious rights to Jews, Greeks, and Armenians but not, for example, to Syrian-Orthodox or Roman Catholics, because the latter ones did not play any political roles during the treaty. However the Treaty of Lausanne does not specify any nationality or ethnicity and simply identifies non-Muslims in general.\n\nRecently, the desire to reestablish the Greek Orthodox seminary on Heybeli Island near Istanbul became a political issue in regard to Turkey's accession to EU membership. The EU considers such prohibition to amount to suppression of religious freedom. However, it is pointed out that if Greek Orthodoxy is allowed to reopen a school it will become the only religion in Turkey with the right to an independent religious school. Recent attempts by the conservative government to outlaw adultery caused an outcry in Turkey and was seen as an attempt to legislate Islamic values, but others point out that the legislation was intended to combat polygamy which is still common in rural areas, although not recognized legally.\n\nIn the United States, the First Amendment to the Constitution contains a similar federal concept, although the term \"laicity\" is not used either in the Constitution or elsewhere, and is in fact used as a term to contrast European secularism with American secularism. That amendment includes clauses prohibiting both congressional governmental interference with the \"free exercise\" of religion, and congressional laws regarding the establishment of religion. Originally this prevented the federal government from interfering with state-established religions. But after the 14th amendment, these clauses have been held by the courts to apply to both the federal and state governments. Together, the \"free exercise clause\" and \"establishment clause\" are considered to accomplish a \"separation of church and state.\"\n\nHowever, separation is not extended to bar religious conduct in public places or by public servants. Public servants, up to and including the President of the United States, often make proclamations of religious faith. Sessions of both houses of the United States Congress and most state legislatures typically open with a prayer by a minister of some faith or other, and many if not most politicians and senior public servants in Washington, DC attend the annual Roman Catholic Red Mass at the Cathedral of St. Matthew the Apostle regardless of their personal religious convictions. In contrast to France, the wearing of religious insignia in public schools is largely noncontroversial as a matter of law and culture in the U.S.; the main cases where there have been controversies are when the practice in question is potentially dangerous (for instance, the wearing of the Sikh \"kirpan\" knife in public places), and even then the issue is usually settled in favor of allowing the practice. In addition, the U.S. government regards religious institutions as tax-exempt non-profits, subject to limitations on their political involvement. Moreover, the military includes government-paid religious chaplains to provide for the spiritual needs of soldiers. In contrast to Europe, however, the government cannot display religious symbols (such as the cross) in public schools, courts and other government offices, although some exceptions are made (e.g. recognition of a cultural group's religious holiday). In addition, the United States Supreme Court has banned any activity in public schools and other government-run areas that can be viewed as a government endorsement of religion.\n\nThe French philosopher and Universal Declaration of Human Rights co-drafter Jacques Maritain, a devout Catholic convert and a critic of French laïcité, noted the distinction between the models found in France and in the mid-twentieth century United States.\nHe considered the US model of that time to be more amicable because it had both \"sharp distinction and actual cooperation\" between church and state, what he called \"an historical treasure\" and admonished the United States, \"Please to God that you keep it carefully, and do not let your concept of separation veer round to the European one.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "332773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=332773", "title": "List of writing systems", "text": "List of writing systems\n\nThis is a list of writing systems (or scripts), classified according to some common distinguishing features. There are at least 3,866 languages that make use of an established writing system.\n\nThe usual name of the script is given first; the name of the language(s) in which the script is written follows (in brackets), particularly in the case where the language name differs from the script name. Other informative or qualifying annotations for the script may also be provided.\n\nIdeographic scripts (in which graphemes are ideograms representing concepts or ideas, rather than a specific word in a language), and pictographic scripts (in which the graphemes are iconic pictures) are not thought to be able to express all that can be communicated by language, as argued by the linguists John DeFrancis and J. Marshall Unger. Essentially, they postulate that no \"full\" writing system can be completely pictographic or ideographic; it must be able to refer directly to a language in order to have the full expressive capacity of a language. Unger disputes claims made on behalf of Blissymbols in his 2004 book \"Ideogram\".\n\nAlthough a few pictographic or ideographic scripts exist today, there is no single way to read them, because there is no one-to-one correspondence between symbol and language. Hieroglyphs were commonly thought to be ideographic before they were translated, and to this day Chinese is often erroneously said to be ideographic. In some cases of ideographic scripts, only the author of a text can read it with any certainty, and it may be said that they are \"interpreted\" rather than read. Such scripts often work best as mnemonic aids for oral texts, or as outlines that will be fleshed out in speech.\n\n\nThere are also symbol systems used to represent things other than language, or to represent constructed languages. Some of these are\n\nLinear B and Asemic writing also incorporate ideograms.\n\nIn logographic writing systems, glyphs represent words or morphemes (meaningful components of words, as in \"mean-ing-ful\"), rather than phonetic elements.\n\nNote that no logographic script is composed solely of logograms. All contain graphemes that represent phonetic (sound-based) elements as well. These phonetic elements may be used on their own (to represent, for example, grammatical inflections or foreign words), or may serve as phonetic complements to a logogram (used to specify the sound of a logogram that might otherwise represent more than one word). In the case of Chinese, the phonetic element is built into the logogram itself; in Egyptian and Mayan, many glyphs are purely phonetic, whereas others function as either logograms or phonetic elements, depending on context. For this reason, many such scripts may be more properly referred to as logosyllabic or complex scripts; the terminology used is largely a product of custom in the field, and is to an extent arbitrary.\n\n\n\nIn a syllabary, graphemes represent syllables or moras. (Note that the 19th-century term \"syllabics\" usually referred to \"abugidas\" rather than true syllabaries.)\n\n\nIn most of these systems, some consonant-vowel combinations are written as syllables, but others are written as consonant plus vowel. In the case of Old Persian, all vowels were written regardless, so it was \"effectively\" a true alphabet despite its syllabic component. In Japanese a similar system plays a minor role in foreign borrowings; for example, [tu] is written [to]+[u], and [ti] as [te]+[i]. Paleohispanic semi-syllabaries behaved as a syllabary for the stop consonants and as an alphabet for the rest of consonants and vowels. The Tartessian or Southwestern script is typologically intermediate between a pure alphabet and the Paleohispanic full semi-syllabaries. Although the letter used to write a stop consonant was determined by the following vowel, as in a full semi-syllabary, the following vowel was also written, as in an alphabet. Some scholars treat Tartessian as a redundant semi-syllabary, others treat it as a redundant alphabet. Zhuyin is semi-syllabic in a different sense: it transcribes half syllables. That is, it has letters for syllable onsets and rimes \"(kan = \"k-an\")\" rather than for consonants and vowels \"(kan = \"k-a-n\").\"\n\n\nA segmental script has graphemes which represent the phonemes (basic unit of sound) of a language.\n\nNote that there need not be (and rarely is) a one-to-one correspondence between the graphemes of the script and the phonemes of a language. A phoneme may be represented only by some combination or string of graphemes, the same phoneme may be represented by more than one distinct grapheme, the same grapheme may stand for more than one phoneme, or some combination of all of the above.\n\nSegmental scripts may be further divided according to the types of phonemes they typically record:\n\nAn abjad is a segmental script containing symbols for consonants only, or where vowels are \"optionally\" written with diacritics (\"pointing\") or only written word-initially.\n\nA true alphabet contains separate letters (not diacritic marks) for both consonants and vowels.\n\n\"Linear\" alphabets are composed of lines on a surface, such as ink on paper.\n\nA featural script has elements that indicate the components of articulation, such as bilabial consonants, fricatives, or back vowels. Scripts differ in how many features they indicate.\n\n\n\nManual alphabets are frequently found as parts of sign languages. They are not used for writing \"per se\", but for spelling out words while signing.\n\nThese are other alphabets composed of something other than lines on a surface.\n\nAn abugida, or \"alphasyllabary\", is a segmental script in which vowel sounds are denoted by diacritical marks or other systematic modification of the consonants. Generally, however, if a single letter is understood to have an inherent unwritten vowel, and only vowels other than this are written, then the system is classified as an alphasyllabary regardless of whether the vowels look like diacritics or full letters. The vast majority of alphasyllabaries are found from India to Southeast Asia and belong historically to the Brāhmī family. The term abugida is derived from the first characters of the abugida in Ge'ez: አ (A) ቡ (bu) ጊ (gi) ዳ (da) — (compare with \"alphabet\"). Unlike abjads, the diacritical marks and systemic modifications of the consonants are not optional.\n\n\n\nIn at least one abugida, not only the vowel but any syllable-final consonant is written with a diacritic. For example, representing [o] with an under-ring, and final [k] with an over-cross, [sok] would be written as .\n\n\nIn a few abugidas, the vowels are basic, and the consonants secondary. If no consonant is written in Pahawh Hmong, it is understood to be /k/; consonants are written after the vowel they precede in speech. In Japanese Braille, the vowels but not the consonants have independent status, and it is the vowels which are modified when the consonant is \"y\" or \"w\".\n\n\nThese systems have not been deciphered. In some cases, such as Meroitic, the sound values of the glyphs are known, but the texts still cannot be read because the language is not understood. Several of these systems, such as Epi-Olmec and Indus, are claimed to have been deciphered, but these claims have not been confirmed by independent researchers. In many cases it is doubtful that they are actually writing. The Vinča symbols appear to be proto-writing, and quipu may have recorded only numerical information. There are doubts that Indus is writing, and the Phaistos Disc has so little content or context that its nature is undetermined.\n\n\nA number of manuscripts exist which may be written in an invented writing system, a cipher of an existing writing system or may only be a hoax.\n\nAsemic writing is generally meaningless, though it sometimes contains ideograms or pictograms.\n\nThis section lists alphabets used to transcribe phonetic or phonemic sound; not to be confused with spelling alphabets like the ICAO spelling alphabet.\n\nAlphabets may exist in forms other than visible symbols on a surface. Some of these are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19441490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19441490", "title": "Love-in", "text": "Love-in\n\nA love-in is a peaceful public gathering focused on meditation, love, music, sex and/or use of psychedelic drugs. The term was coined by Los Angeles radio comedian Peter Bergman, who also hosted the first one in March or April 1967 (sources disagree) in Elysian Park.\nIt has been interpreted in different ways by different organizations, but is often connected to protesting local, social or environmental issues. \nSuch protests were held in opposition to the Vietnam War.\n\nLove-ins are largely considered a staple of the 1960s counterculture hippie culture.\n"}
{"id": "42908722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42908722", "title": "Model order reduction", "text": "Model order reduction\n\nModel order reduction (MOR) is a technique for reducing the computational complexity of mathematical models in numerical simulations. As such it is closely related to the concept of metamodeling with applications in all areas of mathematical modelling.\n\nMany modern mathematical models of real-life processes pose challenges when used in numerical simulations, due to complexity and large size (dimension). Model order reduction aims to lower the computational complexity of such problems, for example, in simulations of large-scale dynamical systems and control systems. By a reduction of the model's associated state space dimension or degrees of freedom, an approximation to the original model is computed which is commonly referred to as a reduced order model.\n\nReduced order models are useful in settings where it is often unfeasible to perform numerical simulations using the complete full order model. This can be due to limitations in computational resources or the requirements of the simulations setting, for instance real-time simulation settings or many-query settings in which a large number of simulations needs to be performed. Examples of Real-time simulation settings include control systems in electronics and visualization of model results while examples for a many-query setting can include optimization problems and design exploration. In order to be applicable to real-world problems, often the requirements of a reduced order model are:\n\nModel order reduction techniques used most commonly nowadays can be broadly classified into 4 classes:\n\n\nThe simplified physics approach can be described to be analogous to the traditional Mathematical modelling approach, in which a less complex description of a system is constructed based on assumptions and simplifications using physical insight or otherwise derived information. However, this approach is not often the topic of discussion in the context of model order reduction as it is a general method in science, engineering and mathematics and is not the subject of the current article.\n\nThe remaining listed methods fall into the category of projection-based reduction. Projection-based reduction relies on the projection of either the model equations or the solution onto a basis of reduced dimensionality compared to the original solution space. Methods that also fall into this class but are perhaps less commonly found are:\n\n\nModel order reduction finds application within all fields involving mathematical modelling and many reviews exist for the topics of electronics, fluid- and structural mechanics.\n\nCurrent Problems in fluid mechanics involve large dynamical systems representing many effects on many different scales. Computational fluid dynamics studies often involve models solving the navier-stokes with a number of degrees of freedom in the order of magnitude upwards of formula_1. The first usage of model order reduction techniques dates back to the work of Lumley in 1967 where it was used to gain insight into the mechanisms and intensity of turbulence and large coherent structures present in fluid flow problems. Model order reduction also finds modern applications in Aeronautics to model the flow over the body of aircraft. An example can be found in Lieu et al in which the full order model of an F16 fighter-aircraft with over 2.1 million degrees of freedom, was reduced to a model of just 90 degrees of freedom. Additionally reduced order modelling has been applied to study rheology in Hemodynamics and the Fluid–structure interactionbetween the blood flowing through the vascular system and the vascular walls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54171216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54171216", "title": "Museum fatigue", "text": "Museum fatigue\n\nMuseum fatigue is a state of physical or mental fatigue caused by the experience of exhibits in museums and similar cultural institutions. The collection of phenomena that characterize museum fatigue was first described in 1916, and has since received widespread attention in popular and scientific contexts.\n"}
{"id": "25652972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25652972", "title": "No-analog (ecology)", "text": "No-analog (ecology)\n\nNo-analog (variants may omit the hyphen and/or use the British English \"analogue\"), or alternately \"novel\", climatic conditions (\"no-analog climates\") or biological communities (\"no-analog communities\") in paleoecology and ecological forecasting are those without current equivalents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18050749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18050749", "title": "Nucleic acid notation", "text": "Nucleic acid notation\n\nThe nucleic acid notation currently in use was first formalized by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) in 1970. This universally accepted notation uses the Roman characters G, C, A, and T, to represent the four nucleotides commonly found in deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA). Given the rapidly expanding role for genetic sequencing, synthesis, and analysis in biology, researchers have been compelled to develop alternate notations to further support the analysis and manipulation of genetic data. These notations generally exploit size, shape, and symmetry to accomplish these objectives.\n\nDegenerate base symbols in biochemistry are an IUPAC representation for a position on a DNA sequence that can have multiple possible alternatives. These should not be confused with non-canonical bases because each particular sequence will have in fact one of the regular bases. These are used to encode the consensus sequence of a population of aligned sequences and are used for example in phylogenetic analysis to summarise into one multiple sequences or for BLAST searches, even though IUPAC degenerate symbols are masked (as they are not coded).\n\nUnder the commonly used IUPAC system, nucleobases are represented by the first letters of their chemical names: [G]uanine, [C]ytosine, [A]denine, and [T]hymine. This shorthand also includes eleven \"ambiguity\" characters associated with every possible combination of the four DNA bases. The ambiguity characters were designed to encode positional variations found among families of related genes. The IUPAC notation, including ambiguity characters and suggested mnemonics, is shown in Table 1.\n\nDespite its broad and nearly universal acceptance, the IUPAC system has a number of limitations, which stem from its reliance on the Roman alphabet. The poor legibility of upper-case Roman characters, which are generally used when displaying genetic data, may be chief among these limitations. The value of external projections in distinguishing letters has been well documented. However, these projections are absent from upper case letters, which in some cases are only distinguishable by subtle internal cues. Take for example the upper case C and G used to represent cytosine and guanine. These characters generally comprise half the characters in a genetic sequence but are differentiated by a small internal tick (depending on the typeface). Nevertheless, these Roman characters are available in the ASCII character set most commonly used in textual communications, which reinforces this system's ubiquity.\n\nAnother shortcoming of the IUPAC notation arises from the fact that its eleven ambiguity characters have been selected from the remaining characters of the Roman alphabet. The authors of the notation endeavored to select ambiguity characters with logical mnemonics. For example, S is used to represent the possibility of finding cytosine or guanine at genetic loci, both of which form [S]trong cross-strand binding interactions. Conversely, the weaker interactions of thymine and adenine are represented by a W. However, convenient mnemonics are not as readily available for the other ambiguity characters displayed in Table 1. This has made ambiguity characters difficult to use and may account for their limited application.\n\nLegibility issues associated with IUPAC-encoded genetic data have led biologists to consider alternate strategies for displaying genetic data. These creative approaches to visualizing DNA sequences have generally relied on the use of spatially distributed symbols and/or visually distinct shapes to encode lengthy nucleic acid sequences. Alternative notations for nucleotide sequences have been attempted, however general uptake has been low. Several of these approaches are summarized below.\n\nIn 1986, Cowin et al. described a novel method for visualizing DNA sequence known as the Stave Projection. Their strategy was to encode nucleotides as circles on series of horizontal bars akin to notes on musical stave. As illustrated in Figure 1, each gap on the five-line staff corresponded to one of the four DNA bases. The spatial distribution of the circles made it far easier to distinguish individual bases and compare genetic sequences than IUPAC-encoded data.\n\nThe order of the bases (from top to bottom, G, A, T, C) is chosen so that the complementary strand can be read by turning the projection upside down.\n\nZimmerman et al. took a different approach to visualizing genetic data. Rather than relying on spatially distributed circles to highlight genetic features, they exploited four geometrically diverse symbols found in a standard computer font to distinguish the four bases. The authors developed a simple WordPerfect macro to translate IUPAC characters into the more visually distinct symbols.\n\nWith the growing availability of font editors, Jarvius and Landegren devised a novel set of genetic symbols, known as the DNA Skyline font, which uses increasingly taller blocks to represent the different DNA bases. While reminiscent of Cowin \"et al\".'s spatially distributed Stave Projection, the DNA Skyline font is easy to download and permits translation to and from the IUPAC notation by simply changing the font in most standard word processing applications.\nAmbigrams (symbols that convey different meaning when viewed in a different orientation) have been designed to mirror structural symmetries found in the DNA double helix. By assigning ambigraphic characters to complementary bases (i.e. guanine = b, cytosine = q, adenine = n, and thymine = u), it is possible to complement DNA sequences by simply rotating the text 180 degrees. An ambigraphic nucleic acid notation also makes it easy to identify genetic palindromes, such as endonuclease restriction sites, as sections of text that can be rotated 180 degrees without changing the sequence.\n\nOne example of an ambigraphic nucleic acid notation is AmbiScript, a rationally designed nucleic acid notations that combined many of the visual and functional features of its predecessors. Its notation also uses spatially offset characters to facilitate the visual review and analysis of genetic data. AmbiScript was also designed to indicate ambiguous nucleotide positions via compound symbols. This strategy aimed to offer a more intuitive solution to the use of ambiguity characters first proposed by the IUPAC. As with Jarvius and Landegren's DNA Skyline fonts, AmbiScript fonts can be downloaded and applied to IUPAC-encoded sequence data.\n"}
{"id": "20971660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20971660", "title": "One gene–one enzyme hypothesis", "text": "One gene–one enzyme hypothesis\n\nThe one gene–one enzyme hypothesis is the idea that genes act through the production of enzymes, with each gene responsible for producing a single enzyme that in turn affects a single step in a metabolic pathway. The concept was proposed by George Beadle and Edward Tatum in an influential 1941 paper on genetic mutations in the mold \"Neurospora crassa\", and subsequently was dubbed the \"one gene–one enzyme hypothesis\" by their collaborator Norman Horowitz. In 2004 Norman Horowitz reminisced that \"these experiments founded the science of what Beadle and Tatum called 'biochemical genetics.' In actuality they proved to be the opening gun in what became molecular genetics and all the developments that have followed from that.\" The development of the one gene–one enzyme hypothesis is often considered the first significant result in what came to be called molecular biology. Although it has been extremely influential, the hypothesis was recognized soon after its proposal to be an oversimplification. Even the subsequent reformulation of the \"one gene–one polypeptide\" hypothesis is now considered too simple to describe the relationship between genes and proteins.\n\nAlthough some instances of errors in metabolism following Mendelian inheritance patterns were known earlier, beginning with the 1902 identification by Archibald Garrod of alkaptonuria as a Mendelian recessive trait, for the most part genetics could not be applied to metabolism through the late 1930s. Another of the exceptions was the work of Boris Ephrussi and George Beadle, two geneticists working on the eye color pigments of \"Drosophila melanogaster\" fruit flies in the Caltech laboratory of Thomas Hunt Morgan. In the mid-1930s they found that genes affecting eye color appeared to be serially dependent, and that the normal red eyes of \"Drosophila\" were the result of pigments that went through a series of transformations; different eye color gene mutations disrupted the transformations at a different points in the series. Thus, Beadle reasoned that each gene was responsible for an enzyme acting in the metabolic pathway of pigment synthesis. However, because it was a relatively superficial pathway rather than one shared widely by diverse organisms, little was known about the biochemical details of fruit fly eye pigment metabolism. Studying that pathway in more detail required isolating pigments from the eyes of flies, an extremely tedious process.\n\nAfter moving to Stanford University in 1937, Beadle began working with biochemist Edward Tatum to isolate the fly eye pigments. After some success with this approach—they identified one of the intermediate pigments shortly after another researcher, Adolf Butenandt, beat them to the discovery—Beadle and Tatum switched their focus to an organism that made genetic studies of biochemical traits much easier: the bread mold \"Neurospora crassa\", which had recently been subjected to genetic research by one of Thomas Hunt Morgan's researchers, Carl C. Lingegren. \"Neurospora\" had several advantages: it required a simple growth medium, it grew quickly, and because of the production of ascospores during reproduction it was easy to isolate genetic mutants for analysis. They produced mutations by exposing the fungus to X-rays, and then identified strains that had metabolic defects by varying the growth medium. This work of Beadle and Tatum led almost at once to an important generalization. This was that most mutants unable to grow on minimal medium but able to grow on “complete” medium each require addition of only one particular supplement for growth on minimal medium. If the synthesis of a particular nutrient (such as an amino acid or vitamin) was disrupted by mutation, that mutant strain could be grown by adding the necessary nutrient to the medium. This finding suggested that most mutations affected only a single metabolic pathway. Further evidence obtained soon after the initial findings tended to show that generally only a single step in the pathway is blocked. Following their first report of three such \"auxotroph\" mutants in 1941, Beadle and Tatum used this method to create series of related mutants and determined the order in which amino acids and some other metabolites were synthesized in several metabolic pathways. The obvious inference from these experiments was that each gene mutation affects the activity of a single enzyme. This led directly to the one gene–one enzyme hypothesis, which, with certain qualifications and refinements, has remained essentially valid to the present day. As recalled by Horowitz et al., the work of Beadle and Tatum also demonstrated that genes have an essential role in biosyntheses. At the time of the experiments (1941), non-geneticists still generally believed that genes governed only trivial biological traits, such as eye color, and bristle arrangement in fruit flies, while basic biochemistry was determined in the cytoplasm by unknown processes. Also, many respected geneticists thought that gene action was far too complicated to be resolved by any simple experiment. Thus Beadle and Tatum brought about a fundamental revolution in our understanding of genetics.\n\nThe nutritional mutants of \"Neurospora\" also proved to have practical applications; in one of the early, if indirect, examples of military funding of science in the biological sciences, Beadle garnered additional research funding (from the Rockefeller Foundation and an association of manufacturers of military rations) to develop strains that could be used to assay the nutrient content of foodstuffs, to ensure adequate nutrition for troops in World War II.\n\nIn their first \"Neurospora\" paper, published in the November 15, 1941, edition of the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\", Beadle and Tatum noted that it was \"entirely tenable to suppose that these genes which are themselves a part of the system, control or regulate specific reactions in the system either by acting directly as enzymes or by determining the specificities of enzymes\", an idea that had been suggested, though with limited experimental support, as early as 1917; they offered new evidence to support that view, and outlined a research program that would enable it to be explored more fully. By 1945, Beadle, Tatum and others, working with \"Neurospora\" and other model organisms such as \"E. coli\", had produced considerable experimental evidence that each step in a metabolic pathway is controlled by a single gene. In a 1945 review, Beadle suggested that \"the gene can be visualized as directing the final configuration of a protein molecule and thus determining its specificity.\" He also argued that \"for reasons of economy in the evolutionary process, one might expect that with few exceptions the final specificity of a particular enzyme would be imposed by only one gene.\" At the time, genes were widely thought to consist of proteins or nucleoproteins (although the Avery–MacLeod–McCarty experiment and related work was beginning to cast doubt on that idea). However, the proposed connection between a single gene and a single protein enzyme outlived the protein theory of gene structure. In a 1948 paper, Norman Horowitz named the concept the \"one gene–one enzyme hypothesis\".\n\nAlthough influential, the one gene–one enzyme hypothesis was not unchallenged. Among others, Max Delbrück was skeptical only a single enzyme was actually involved at each step along metabolic pathways. For many who did accept the results, it strengthened the link between genes and enzymes, so that some biochemists thought that genes \"were\" enzymes; this was consistent with other work, such as studies of the reproduction of tobacco mosaic virus (which was known to have heritable variations and which followed the same pattern of autocatalysis as many enzymatic reactions) and the crystallization of that virus as an apparently pure protein. At the start of the 1950s, the Neurospora findings were widely admired, but the prevailing view in 1951 was that the conclusion Beadle had drawn from them was a vast oversimplification. Beadle wrote in 1966, that after reading the 1951 Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Genes and Mutations, he had the impression that supporters of the one gene–one enzyme hypothesis “could be counted on the fingers of one hand with a couple of fingers left over.” By the early 1950s, most biochemists and geneticists considered DNA the most likely candidate for physical basis of the gene, and the one gene–one enzyme hypothesis was reinterpreted accordingly.\n\nIn attributing an instructional role to genes, Beadle and Tatum implicitly accorded genes an informational capability. This insight provided the foundation for the concept of a genetic code. However, it was not until the experiments were performed showing that DNA was the genetic material, that proteins consist of a defined linear sequence of amino acids, and that DNA structure contained a linear sequence of base pairs, was there a clear basis for solving the genetic code.\n\nBy the early 1950s, advances in biochemical genetics—spurred in part by the original hypothesis—made the one gene–one enzyme hypothesis seem very unlikely (at least in its original form). Beginning in 1957, Vernon Ingram and others showed through electrophoresis and 2D chromatography that genetic variations in proteins (such as sickle cell hemoglobin) could be limited to differences in just a single polypeptide chain in a multimeric protein, leading to a \"one gene–one polypeptide\" hypothesis instead. According to geneticist Rowland H. Davis, \"By 1958 – indeed, even by 1948 – one gene, one enzyme was no longer a hypothesis to be resolutely defended; it was simply the name of a research program.\"\n\nPresently, the one gene–one polypeptide perspective cannot account for the various spliced versions in many eukaryote organisms which use a spliceosome to individually prepare a RNA transcript depending on the various inter- and intra-cellular environmental signals. This splicing was discovered in 1977 by Phillip Sharp and Richard J. Roberts\n\nHistorian Jan Sapp has studied the controversy in regard to German geneticist Franz Moewus who, as some leading geneticists of the 1940s and 50s argued, generated similar results before Beadle and Tatum's celebrated 1941 work. Working on the algae \"Chlamydomonas\", Moewus published, in the 1930s, results that showed that different genes were responsible for different enzymatic reactions in the production of hormones that controlled the organism's reproduction. However, as Sapp skillfully details, those results were challenged by others who found the data 'too good to be true' statistically, and the results could not be replicated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28952622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28952622", "title": "OptimJ", "text": "OptimJ\n\nOptimJ is an extension of the Java with language support for writing optimization models and abstractions for bulk data processing. The extensions and the proprietary product implementing the extensions were developed by Ateji which went out of business in September 2011.\nOptimJ aims at providing a clear and concise algebraic notation for optimization modeling, removing compatibility barriers between optimization modeling and application programming tools, and bringing software engineering techniques such as object-orientation and modern IDE support to optimization experts.\n\nOptimJ models are directly compatible with Java source code, existing Java libraries such as database access, Excel connection or graphical interfaces. OptimJ is compatible with development tools such as Eclipse, CVS, JUnit or JavaDoc. OptimJ is available free with the following solvers: lp_solve, glpk, LP or MPS file formats and also supports the following commercial solvers: Gurobi, MOSEK, IBM ILOG CPLEX Optimization Studio.\n\nOptimJ combines concepts from object-oriented imperative languages with concepts from algebraic modeling languages for optimization problems. Here we will review the optimization concepts added to Java, starting with a concrete example.\n\nThe goal of a map coloring problem is to color a map so that regions sharing a common border have different colors. It can be expressed in OptimJ as follows.\n\nReaders familiar with Java will notice a strong similarity with this language. Indeed, OptimJ is a conservative extension of Java: every valid Java program is also a valid OptimJ program and has the same behavior.\n\nThis map coloring example also shows features specific to optimization that have no direct equivalent in Java, introduced by the keywords codice_1, codice_2, codice_3.\n\nA model is an extension of a Java class that can contain not only fields and methods but also constraints and an objective function. It is introduced by the codice_1 keyword and follows the same rules as class declarations. A non-abstract model must be linked to a solver, introduced by the keyword codice_5. The capabilities of the solver will determine what kind of constraints can be expressed in the model, for instance a linear solver such as lp solve will only allow linear constraints.\n\nImperative languages such as Java provide a notion of imperative variables, which basically represent memory locations that can be written to and read from.\n\nOptimJ also introduces the notion of a decision variable, which basically represents an unknown quantity whose value one is searching. A solution to an optimization problem is a set of values for all its decision variables that respects the constraints of the problem—without decision variables, it would not possible to express optimization problems. The term \"decision variable\" comes from the optimization community, but decision variables in OptimJ are the same concept as logical variables in logical languages such as Prolog.\n\nDecision variables have special types introduced by the keyword codice_2. There is a codice_2 type for each possible Java type.\n\nIn the map coloring example, decision variables were introduced together with the range of values they may take.\n\nThis is just a shorthand equivalent to putting a constraint on the variable.\n\nConstraints express conditions that must be true in any solution of the problem. A constraint can be any Java boolean expression involving decision variables.\n\nIn the map coloring example, this set of constraints states that in any solution to the map coloring problem, the color of Belgium must be different from the color of Germany, and the color of Germany must be different from the color of Denmark.\n\nThe operator codice_8 is the standard Java not-equal operator.\n\nConstraints typically come in batches and can be quantified with the codice_9 operator. For instance, instead of listing all countries and their neighbors explicitly in the source code, one may have an array of countries, an array of decision variables representing the color of each country, and an array codice_10 or a predicate (a boolean function) codice_11. \n\ncodice_12 is a generator: it iterates codice_13 over all the values in the collection codice_14.\n\ncodice_15 is a filter: it keeps only the generated values for which the predicate is true (the symbol codice_16 may be read as \"if\").\n\nAssuming that the array codice_14 contains codice_18, codice_19 and codice_20, and that the predicate codice_21 returns codice_22 for the couples (codice_23, codice_24) and (codice_24, codice_26), then this code is equivalent to the constraints block of the original map coloring example.\n\nOptionally, when a model describes an optimization problem, an objective function to be minimized or maximized can be stated in the model.\n\nGeneralist concepts are programming concepts that are not specific to OR problems and would make sense for any kind of application development. The generalist concepts added to Java by OptimJ make the expression of OR models easier or more concise. They are often present in older modeling languages and thus provide OR experts with a familiar way of expressing their models.\n\nWhile Java arrays can only be indexed by 0-based integers, OptimJ arrays can be indexed by values of any type. Such arrays are typically called associative arrays or maps. In this example, the array codice_27 contains the age of persons, identified by their name:\n\nThe type codice_28 denoting an array of codice_29 indexed by codice_30. Accessing OptimJ arrays using the standard Java syntax:\n\nTraditionally, associative arrays are heavily used in the expression of optimization problems. OptimJ associative arrays are very handy when associated to their specific initialization syntax. Initial values can be given in intensional definition, as in:\n\nor can be given in extensional definition, as in:\n\nHere each of the entries codice_31 is initialized with codice_32.\n\nTuples are ubiquitous in computing, but absent from most mainstream languages including Java. OptimJ provides a notion of tuple at the language level that can be very useful as indexes in combination with associative arrays.\n\nTuple types and tuple values are both written between codice_33 and codice_34.\n\nComprehensions, also called aggregates operations or reductions, are OptimJ expressions that extend a given binary operation over a collection of values. A common example is the sum:\n\nThis construction is very similar to the big-sigma summation notation used in mathematics, with a syntax compatible with the Java language.\n\nComprehensions can also be used to build collections, such as lists, sets, multisets or maps:\n\nComprehension expressions can have an arbitrary expression as target, as in:\n\nThey can also have an arbitrary number of generators and filters:\n\nComprehension need not apply only to numeric values. Set or multiset-building comprehensions, especially in combination with tuples of strings, make it possible to express queries very similar to SQL database queries:\n\nIn the context of optimization models, comprehension expressions provide a concise and expressive way to pre-process and clean the input data, and format the output data.\n\nOptimJ is available as an Eclipse plug-in. The compiler implements a source-to-source translation from OptimJ to standard Java, thus providing immediate compatibility with most development tools of the Java ecosystem.\n\nSince the OptimJ compiler knows about the structure of all data used in models, it is able to generate a structured graphical view of this data at compile-time. This is especially relevant in the case of associative arrays where the compiler knows the collections used for indexing the various dimensions.\n\nThe basic graphical view generated by the compiler is reminiscent of an OLAP cube. It can then be customized in many different ways, from simple coloring up to providing new widgets for displaying data elements.\n\nThe compiler-generated OptimJ GUI saves the OR expert from writing all the glue code required when mapping graphical libraries to data. It enables rapid prototyping, by providing immediate visual hints about the structure of data.\n\nAnother part of the OptimJ GUI reports in real time performance statistics from the solver. This information can be used for understanding performance problems and improving solving time. At this time, it is available only for lp_solve.\n\nOptimJ is available for free with the following solvers lp_solve, glpk, LP or MPS file formats and also supports the following commercial solvers: Gurobi, Mosek, IBM ILOG CPLEX Optimization Studio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479070", "title": "Overkill (term)", "text": "Overkill (term)\n\nOverkill is the use of excessive force or action that goes further than what is necessary to achieve its goal. It implies that, while the goal was accomplished, there was collateral damage as a result. It may be a literal term referring to physical damage, though it is also used in colloquial conversation as a metaphor. An example is killing an ant with a sledgehammer.\n\n\"Overkill\" is especially used to refer to a destructive nuclear capacity exceeding the amount needed to destroy an enemy.\n\nThe term is attested from 1946 and was in common use during the Cold War era, referring to the arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union. Both nations possessed (and still do) more than enough nuclear weapons to destroy one another many times over — nuclear overkill.\nThe term for this was \"pounding the rubble\" or, as military officers sometimes joked, \"pounding the ruble\".\n\nOverkill is a common feature implemented in many video games, typically representing the fact that the damage a single attack inflicted on an enemy or player character far exceeded the character's remaining health points. In many first-person shooters, starting with \"Doom\", overkilling a character results in \"gibbing\" - the character exploding in a shower of gore.\n"}
{"id": "2022213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2022213", "title": "PANOSE", "text": "PANOSE\n\nThe PANOSE System is a method for classifying typefaces solely on their visual characteristics, developed by Benjamin Bauermeister. It can be used to identify an unknown font from a sample image or to match a known font to its closest visual neighbor from a font pool. The word \"PANOSE\" is composed of letters taken from the six classes in which the creator of the system organized the Latin alphabet.\n\nThe original PANOSE System was developed in 1985 by Benjamin Bauermeister. In 1988, it was published by Van Nostrand Reinhold Company Inc. under the title \"A Manual of Comparative Typography: The PANOSE System\". This initial version of the PANOSE system consisted of seven classification categories and was based on subjective visual parameters.\n\nIn 1990, the Weight category was added, and the Arm Style category was split off from the Stroke Variation category, bringing the number of classification categories to 9. Objective classification criteria were also added at this time.\n\nIn 1991, the Family Kind category was added, completing the PANOSE 1.0 definition.\n\nIn 1992, there were attempts made to classify Han ideographic typefaces, which allows applications to suggests the most appropriate Latin typeface to match a given Han ideographic typeface. Transliteral mapping could also be used to match between, for example, decorative or script faces and text equivalents.\n\nIn 1993, Mapper Application Interface (MAI) was developed. PANOSE 2.0 was also released in the same year, which is the basis for Hewlett Packard's Infinifont font synthesis technology.\n\nPANOSE was incorporated into a variety of digital font metadata tags in 1992 by ElseWare Corporation. The classification system, its matching algorithms reference databases, classification parameters, and trademarks were purchased by Hewlett Packard in 1995. A font synthesis engine named Infinifont was also purchased by Hewlett Packard at that time.\n\nIt was published in 1988. A PANOSE classification number consists of 10 concatenated values. Each value from a given category was computed from a specific visual metric, such as the weight of the font and the presence or absence of serifs. Special values \"Any\" (0) and \"No Fit\" (1) exist for every category, which have specific meanings to the mapper. \"Any\" means match that digit with any available digit, which allows the mapper to handle distortable typefaces. \"No Fit\" means that the item being classified does not fit within the present system.\n\nThe standard classifies fonts in following categories in following order:\n\n\n\n\n\nFor example, the PANOSE digits for Times New Roman are:\nThe system stores actual measurement data under the Rich Font Description (RFD) rather than bucketing it, which allows the matching system to use mathematical distance rather than penalty tables. It is designed for distortable font technologies (e.g.: Multi Master fonts). The system offers multiple methods for distortable fonts.\n\nThe original classification system was changed from a bucket-based system to an arithmetic system (except the Family from PANOSE 1.0 and derivatives), and was expanded to following categories:\n\nEach PANOSE 2.0 category value is a signed 16-bit number (from −32,768 to 32,767; only ranges between −10,000 and 10,000 are defined), where value zero (0) is considered to be the \"normal\" for the digit. For example, digit zero for the weight represents medium weight. The \"any\" value from PANOSE 1.0 is translated to a \"don't care\" parameter and is replaced by the more comprehensive distortable font descriptions.\n\nThe Family category is replaced by Class and Genre, where Class indicates a font's language and character set, where Genre indicates text faces, display faces, symbol faces, and so on. PANOSE matching software is designed to match fonts with different Class, but same Genre. The same Genre can have different meaning in different Class, so the matching heuristic decides the closeness of fonts based on adjusted values based on Class, rather than raw PANOSE values within the fonts themselves.\n\nClassification Procedures are objective measurement techniques used to assign a PANOSE number to a font.\n\nThe PANOSE Mapper software determines the closest possible font match on any given system by comparing the PANOSE numbers of the requested and available fonts. The individual PANOSE digits are compared, weighted by their typographic importance, and summed to provide a numerical visual distance. Typographic importance is derived by assigning weights to each digit; for example, a font's weight (regular, bold, demibold, etc.) is more important than its contrast (difference between thick and thin strokes).\n\nPANOSE 1.0 table is supported in TrueType font format.\n\nPANOSE 2.0 is used in ElseWare Corporation's Infinifont parametric font generation system.\n\nIn 1996, during the W3C's draft process for CSS1, Hewlett Packard proposed a PANOSE syntax extension for font substitution. It was not included in the final CSS1 recommendation partly because of licensing concerns. Although Hewlett Packard Co. is not interested in profiting from PANOSE, it will negotiate licenses on a time and materials basis.\n\nPANOSE 1.0 is supported in SVG since version 1.0 in the \"font-face\" element under \"panose-1\" attribute. In CSS2, it is used in the \"panose-1\" property, which was removed in CSS2.1, and was reintroduced in \"CSS3 module: Web Fonts\" specifications.\n\nIn Office Open XML, it is part of WordProcessingML.\n\nPANOSE 1.0 is used in Rich Text Format Specification 1.7.\n\n"}
{"id": "24669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24669", "title": "Pauli exclusion principle", "text": "Pauli exclusion principle\n\nThe Pauli exclusion principle is the quantum mechanical principle which states that two or more identical fermions (particles with half-integer spin) cannot occupy the same quantum state within a quantum system simultaneously. In the case of electrons in atoms, it can be stated as follows: it is impossible for two electrons of a poly-electron atom to have the same values of the four quantum numbers: \"n\", the principal quantum number, ', the angular momentum quantum number, \"m\", the magnetic quantum number, and \"m\", the spin quantum number. For example, if two electrons reside in the same orbital, and if their \"n\", ', and \"m\" values are the same, then their \"m\" must be different, and thus the electrons must have opposite half-integer spin projections of 1/2 and −1/2. This principle was formulated by Austrian physicist Wolfgang Pauli in 1925 for electrons, and later extended to all fermions with his spin–statistics theorem of 1940.\n\nParticles with an integer spin, or bosons, are not subject to the Pauli exclusion principle: any number of identical bosons can occupy the same quantum state, as with, for instance, photons produced by a laser and Bose–Einstein condensate.\n\nA more rigorous statement is that with respect to exchange of two identical particles the total wave function is antisymmetric for fermions, and symmetric for bosons. This means that if the space \"and\" spin co-ordinates of two identical particles are interchanged, then the wave function changes its sign for fermions and does not change for bosons.\n\nThe Pauli exclusion principle describes the behavior of all fermions (particles with \"half-integer spin\"), while bosons (particles with \"integer spin\") are subject to other principles. Fermions include elementary particles such as quarks, electrons and neutrinos. Additionally, baryons such as protons and neutrons (subatomic particles composed from three quarks) and some atoms (such as helium-3) are fermions, and are therefore described by the Pauli exclusion principle as well. Atoms can have different overall \"spin\", which determines whether they are fermions or bosons — for example helium-3 has spin 1/2 and is therefore a fermion, in contrast to helium-4 which has spin 0 and is a boson. As such, the Pauli exclusion principle underpins many properties of everyday matter, from its large-scale stability, to the chemical behavior of atoms.\n\n\"Half-integer spin\" means that the intrinsic angular momentum value of fermions is formula_1 (reduced Planck's constant) times a half-integer (1/2, 3/2, 5/2, etc.). In the theory of quantum mechanics fermions are described by antisymmetric states. In contrast, particles with integer spin (called bosons) have symmetric wave functions; unlike fermions they may share the same quantum states. Bosons include the photon, the Cooper pairs which are responsible for superconductivity, and the W and Z bosons. (Fermions take their name from the Fermi–Dirac statistical distribution that they obey, and bosons from their Bose–Einstein distribution.)\n\nIn the early 20th century it became evident that atoms and molecules with even numbers of electrons are more chemically stable than those with odd numbers of electrons. In the 1916 article \"The Atom and the Molecule\" by Gilbert N. Lewis, for example, the third of his six postulates of chemical behavior states that the atom tends to hold an even number of electrons in any given shell, and especially to hold eight electrons which are normally arranged symmetrically at the eight corners of a cube (see: cubical atom). In 1919 chemist Irving Langmuir suggested that the periodic table could be explained if the electrons in an atom were connected or clustered in some manner. Groups of electrons were thought to occupy a set of electron shells around the nucleus. In 1922, Niels Bohr updated his model of the atom by assuming that certain numbers of electrons (for example 2, 8 and 18) corresponded to stable \"closed shells\".\n\nPauli looked for an explanation for these numbers, which were at first only empirical. At the same time he was trying to explain experimental results of the Zeeman effect in atomic spectroscopy and in ferromagnetism. He found an essential clue in a 1924 paper by Edmund C. Stoner, which pointed out that, for a given value of the principal quantum number (\"n\"), the number of energy levels of a single electron in the alkali metal spectra in an external magnetic field, where all degenerate energy levels are separated, is equal to the number of electrons in the closed shell of the noble gases for the same value of \"n\". This led Pauli to realize that the complicated numbers of electrons in closed shells can be reduced to the simple rule of \"one\" electron per state, if the electron states are defined using four quantum numbers. For this purpose he introduced a new two-valued quantum number, identified by Samuel Goudsmit and George Uhlenbeck as electron spin.\n\nThe Pauli exclusion principle with a single-valued many-particle wavefunction is equivalent to requiring the wavefunction to be antisymmetric with respect to exchange. An antisymmetric two-particle state is represented as a sum of states in which one particle is in state formula_2 and the other in state formula_3, and is given by:\n\nand antisymmetry under exchange means that . This implies when , which is Pauli exclusion. It is true in any basis since local changes of basis keep antisymmetric matrices antisymmetric.\n\nConversely, if the diagonal quantities are zero \"in every basis\", then the wavefunction component\n\nis necessarily antisymmetric. To prove it, consider the matrix element\n\nThis is zero, because the two particles have zero probability to both be in the superposition state formula_7. But this is equal to\n\nThe first and last terms are diagonal elements and are zero, and the whole sum is equal to zero. So the wavefunction matrix elements obey:\n\nor\n\nAccording to the spin–statistics theorem, particles with integer spin occupy symmetric quantum states, and particles with half-integer spin occupy antisymmetric states; furthermore, only integer or half-integer values of spin are allowed by the principles of quantum mechanics.\nIn relativistic quantum field theory, the Pauli principle follows from applying a rotation operator in imaginary time to particles of half-integer spin.\n\nIn one dimension, bosons, as well as fermions, can obey the exclusion principle. A one-dimensional Bose gas with delta-function repulsive interactions of infinite strength is equivalent to a gas of free fermions. The reason for this is that, in one dimension, exchange of particles requires that they pass through each other; for infinitely strong repulsion this cannot happen. This model is described by a quantum nonlinear Schrödinger equation. In momentum space the exclusion principle is valid also for finite repulsion in a Bose gas with delta-function interactions, as well as for interacting spins and Hubbard model in one dimension, and for other models solvable by Bethe ansatz. The ground state in models solvable by Bethe ansatz is a Fermi sphere.\n\nThe Pauli exclusion principle helps explain a wide variety of physical phenomena. One particularly important consequence of the principle is the elaborate electron shell structure of atoms and the way atoms share electrons, explaining the variety of chemical elements and their chemical combinations. An electrically neutral atom contains bound electrons equal in number to the protons in the nucleus. Electrons, being fermions, cannot occupy the same quantum state as other electrons, so electrons have to \"stack\" within an atom, i.e. have different spins while at the same electron orbital as described below.\n\nAn example is the neutral helium atom, which has two bound electrons, both of which can occupy the lowest-energy (\"1s\") states by acquiring opposite spin; as spin is part of the quantum state of the electron, the two electrons are in different quantum states and do not violate the Pauli principle. However, the spin can take only two different values (eigenvalues). In a lithium atom, with three bound electrons, the third electron cannot reside in a 1s state, and must occupy one of the higher-energy 2s states instead. Similarly, successively larger elements must have shells of successively higher energy. The chemical properties of an element largely depend on the number of electrons in the outermost shell; atoms with different numbers of occupied electron shells but the same number of electrons in the outermost shell have similar properties, which gives rise to the periodic table of the elements.\n\nIn conductors and semiconductors, there are very large numbers of molecular orbitals which effectively form a continuous band structure of energy levels. In strong conductors (metals) electrons are so degenerate that they cannot even contribute much to the thermal capacity of a metal. Many mechanical, electrical, magnetic, optical and chemical properties of solids are the direct consequence of Pauli exclusion.\n\nThe stability of the electrons in an atom itself is unrelated to the exclusion principle, but is described by the quantum theory of the atom. The underlying idea is that close approach of an electron to the nucleus of the atom necessarily increases its kinetic energy, an application of the uncertainty principle of Heisenberg. However, stability of large systems with many electrons and many nucleons is a different matter, and requires the Pauli exclusion principle.\n\nIt has been shown that the Pauli exclusion principle is responsible for the fact that ordinary bulk matter is stable and occupies volume. This suggestion was first made in 1931 by Paul Ehrenfest, who pointed out that the electrons of each atom cannot all fall into the lowest-energy orbital and must occupy successively larger shells. Atoms therefore occupy a volume and cannot be squeezed too closely together.\n\nA more rigorous proof was provided in 1967 by Freeman Dyson and Andrew Lenard, who considered the balance of attractive (electron–nuclear) and repulsive (electron–electron and nuclear–nuclear) forces and showed that ordinary matter would collapse and occupy a much smaller volume without the Pauli principle.\n\nThe consequence of the Pauli principle here is that electrons of the same spin are kept apart by a repulsive exchange interaction, which is a short-range effect, acting simultaneously with the long-range electrostatic or Coulombic force. This effect is partly responsible for the everyday observation in the macroscopic world that two solid objects cannot be in the same place at the same time.\n\nFreeman Dyson and Andrew Lenard did not consider the extreme magnetic or gravitational forces that occur in some astronomical objects. In 1995 Elliott Lieb and coworkers showed that the Pauli principle still leads to stability in intense magnetic fields such as in neutron stars, although at a much higher density than in ordinary matter. It is a consequence of general relativity that, in sufficiently intense gravitational fields, matter collapses to form a black hole.\n\nAstronomy provides a spectacular demonstration of the effect of the Pauli principle, in the form of white dwarf and neutron stars. In both bodies, atomic structure is disrupted by extreme pressure, but the stars are held in hydrostatic equilibrium by \"degeneracy pressure\", also known as Fermi pressure. This exotic form of matter is known as degenerate matter. The immense gravitational force of a star's mass is normally held in equilibrium by thermal pressure caused by heat produced in thermonuclear fusion in the star's core. In white dwarfs, which do not undergo nuclear fusion, an opposing force to gravity is provided by electron degeneracy pressure. In neutron stars, subject to even stronger gravitational forces, electrons have merged with protons to form neutrons. Neutrons are capable of producing an even higher degeneracy pressure, neutron degeneracy pressure, albeit over a shorter range. This can stabilize neutron stars from further collapse, but at a smaller size and higher density than a white dwarf. Neutron stars are the most \"rigid\" objects known; their Young modulus (or more accurately, bulk modulus) is 20 orders of magnitude larger than that of diamond. However, even this enormous rigidity can be overcome by the gravitational field of a massive star or by the pressure of a supernova, leading to the formation of a black hole.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24764", "title": "Pointless topology", "text": "Pointless topology\n\nIn mathematics, pointless topology (also called point-free or pointfree topology, or locale theory) is an approach to topology that avoids mentioning points.\n\nTraditionally, a topological space consists of a set of points together with a \"topology\", a system of subsets called open sets that with the operations of intersection and union forms a lattice with certain properties. Point-free topology is based on the concept of a \"realistic spot\" instead of a point without extent. Spots can be joined (forming a complete lattice) and if a spot meets a join of others it has to meet some of the constituents, which, roughly speaking, leads to the distributive law\n\nformula_1.\n\nThe basic concept is that of a frame, a complete lattice satisfying the distributive law above; frame homomorphisms respect all joins (in particular, the least element of the lattice) and finite meets (in particular, the greatest element of the lattice).\n\nFrames, together with frame homomorphisms, form a category.\n\nIn classical topology, represented on a set formula_2 by the system formula_3 of open sets, formula_3 (partially ordered by inclusion) is a frame, and if formula_5 is a continuous map, formula_6 defined by formula_7 is a frame homomorphism. For sober spaces such formula_8 are precisely the frame homomorphisms formula_9. Hence formula_10 is a full embedding of the category of sober spaces into the dual of the category of frames (usually called of the category of locales). This justifies thinking of frames (locales) as of generalized topological spaces. A frame is \"spatial\" if it is isomorphic to a formula_3. There are plenty of non-spatial ones and this fact turned out to be helpful in several problems.\n\nThe theory of frames and locales in the contemporary sense initiated in late fifties (Charles Ehresmann, Jean Bénabou, Hugh Dowker, Dona Papert) and developed through the following decades (John Isbell, Peter Johnstone, Harold Simmons, , , Till Plewe, Japie Vermeulen, Steve Vickers) into a lively branch of topology, with application in various fields, in particular also in theoretical computer science. For more on the history of locale theory see.\n\nIt is possible to translate most concepts of point-set topology into the context of locales, and prove analogous theorems. From the advantages of the point-free approach let us point out, e.g. the fact that some important facts of classical topology depending on choice principles become choice-free (that is, constructive, which is, a.o. appealing for computer science). Thus for instance, products of compact locales are compact constructively, or completions of uniform locales are constructive. This can be useful if one works in a topos that does not have the axiom of choice. From among other facts of advantage let us name the much better behavior of paracompactness, or the fact that subgroups of localic groups are always closed.\n\nAnother point where locale theory and topology diverge strongly is the concept of subspaces vs. sublocales: by Isbell's density theorem, every locale has a smallest dense sublocale.This has absolutely no equivalent in the realm of topological spaces.\n\n\nA general introduction to pointless topology is\n\nThis is, in its own words, to be read as the trailer for Johnstone's excellent monograph (which appeared already in 1982 and can still be used for basic reference):\n\n\nThere is a recent monograph\n\n\nwhere one also finds a more extensive bibliography.\n\nFor relations with logic:\n\n\nFor a faster information see the respective chapters in:\n\n"}
{"id": "26999670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26999670", "title": "Postbiological evolution", "text": "Postbiological evolution\n\nPostbiological evolution is a form of evolution which has transitioned from a biological paradigm, driven by the propagation of genes, to a nonbiological (e.g., cultural or technological) paradigm, presumably driven by some alternative replicator (e.g., memes or temes), and potentially resulting in the extinction, obsolescence, or trophic reorganization of the former. Researchers anticipating a postbiological universe tend to describe this transition as marked by the maturation and potential convergence of high technologies, such as artificial intelligence or nanotechnology.\n\nThe dictionary definition of Evolution is any process of formation, growth or development. In biological evolution the main principle behind this development is survival, we evolved to become stronger and quicker, we also evolved to become intelligent. But as we became intelligent biological evolution subsided to a new concept, cultural evolution. Cultural evolution moves at a much faster rate than biological evolution and this is one reason why it isn't very well understood. But as survival is still the main driving force behind life and that intelligence and knowledge is currently the most important factor for that survival, we can reasonably assume that cultural evolution will progress in the direction of furthering intelligence and knowledge.\n\nCultural evolution progressing in this way and being based upon the furthering of intelligence is known as the Intelligence Principle; this was suggested by Dr Steven J Dick.\n\n\"The maintenance, improvement and perpetuation of knowledge and intelligence is the central driving force of cultural evolution, and that to the extent intelligence can be improved, it will be improved\" (Dick 1996)\n\nIf cultural evolution progresses in this direction then due to cultural evolution being much faster than biological, the limiting factor becomes our biology and the capability of our brains. Currently the closest and so most probable solution to this problem is artificial intelligence, (AI). Experts in AI even believe it holds the potential and capability for a postbiological earth in the next several generations, (Moravec 1988, 1999). AI could be utilised to solve scientific problems and to analyse situations much faster and more accurately than our own minds.\n\nThe move to a complete postbiological stage has two different routes. One route is the change of human consciousness from a biological vessel into a mechanical; this would require the digitisation of human consciousness. A mechanical based vessel would increase the computational power and intelligence of the human consciousness exponentially, and also eliminate the weakness of a biological form. This route is therefore a logical progression through cultural evolution with survival and the pursuit of knowledge and intelligence at its centre.\n\nThe first route requires a high level of technology, therefore would take a long time, this results in another possible road to a completely postbiological civilisation (PBC). The other route is the complete replacement of human consciousness by AI, for this the human race would co-exist peacefully with our own creation of AI which is scientific, objective, and free from selfish human nature. \n\nThe future of the human race through cultural evolution is not known and the possible postbiological outcomes are infinite, so to address what we could evolve into is almost futile. But Hans Moravec predicted that;\n\n\"What awaits us is not oblivion but rather a future which, from our present vantage point, is best described as 'postbiological' or even 'supernatural'. It is a world swept away by the tide of cultural change, usurped by its own artificial progeny\"\n\nThe possible forms a PBC may take are as diverse as in biological evolution, if not more. But from our knowledge of technology and with the intelligence principle being the main driving force we may make some predictions.\n\nThe current major limitations imposed upon computation are limited storage space, processing power, dust gathering chips, inefficiency of their human operators and heat dispersion. The only one that is fundamental and fixed is heat dispersion because this is due to the laws of physics. In computation the greater the amount of information to be calculated, (I) the greater the energy needed (E), but the energy needed is also proportional to another factor, the temperature, (T).\n\nE=KIT\n\nWhere K is a constant. Therefore, the greater the temperature the greater the energy needed, and so the greater the inefficiency is also. If we now apply the Intelligence principle to this then a PBC would move to decrease the temperature and so increase the efficiency and computational power.\nIn the universe the greatest source of heat transfer is via radiation, therefore a PBC would look to migrate to an area of low radiation and so low temperature. If we now observe the galaxy we see that the most radiation is generated by the galactic centre by both the high stellar density and also highly energetic events such as supernova. Therefore, the coldest regions are away from the galactic centre or inside giant molecular clouds. Giant molecular clouds although being very low in temperature (T~10K) are areas of giant star formation and so the temperature in one location is irregular, which would make it unsuitable for a PBC.\n\nAnother factor affecting a PBC would be the abundance of metals and heavier elements needed for expansion and repair. The highest concentration of these elements is found near the galactic centre, where they are created by massive stars. But to a PBC with advanced technology the production of metals via stellar nucleosynthesis in stars is highly inefficient, converting only a small amount of hydrogen to heavier nuclei and the high loss of energy that is produced in the nuclear fusion. Therefore, a PBC would most likely have the capability to produce heavier nuclei through controlled fusion and minimise the energy lost.\n\nBy taking the two factors of heat dispersion and heavy nuclei into account we can find a \"galactic technological zone\" (GTZ), similar to the principle of a \"galactic habitable zone\" (GHZ) for biological life. Where temperatures are low enough to maximise computing efficiency but there is also matter available for fusion, this most likely lies on the outskirts of the galaxy.\n\nA migration hypothesis exists that takes the GTZ into account. A PBC would most likely not think on a similar time scale to us, therefore although a migration to GTZ may seem inefficient and lengthy to us, a PBC could consider this on timescales of 10^6 years, where the increased computing efficiency received far outweighs the energy required in transportation. The idea of interstellar migrations already exists in literature, (e.g. Badescu and Cathcart 2000).\n\nIn the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI) the main focus is on biological life. But the timescale of intelligent biological life could be very short; already some experts believe that we could see a postbiological earth in the next few generations. According to Steven J. Dick, for a PBC to arise other than our own and be present, we must make five assumptions:\n\n\nWe know that assumptions 1, 3, 4, and 5 can take place as we have observed or are observing them on the Earth. For assumption 2 we must consider the L term of the Drake equation, and the timescale over which intelligent biological life can form. Around 1 Billion years after the start of the universe the first sun-like star had formed, and there were enough heavy elements around for planet formation (1998, Larson and Bromm 2001). From the earth we know that intelligent life can form within 5 billion years, this puts a lower time scale on which intelligent life can form, 6 billion years. And from the current rate of technological progression the leap from intelligent life to a PBC is negligible compared to the astronomical timescale. This means we could already be looking at a postbiological universe. In our own galaxy the first sun-like stars formed at around 4 billion years therefore we could already have a PBC in our galaxy that formed 3-4 billion years ago.\n\nIf we consider this possibility of a PBC in our galaxy we are still faced with Fermi's paradox. However many of the proposed solutions for Fermi's paradox also hold true for a PBC. In terms of the search for extraterrestrial life and astrobiology because of the almost infinite possible forms a PBC could take and our lack of understanding of these we would effectively be blind in this search. For this reason even though there is a logical argument for the existence of PBCs our best hopes remain with looking for biological life.\n\nWhile in some circles the expression \"postbiological evolution\" is roughly synonymous with human genetic engineering, it is used most often to refer to the general application of the convergence of nanotechnology, biotechnology, information technology, and cognitive science (NBIC) to improve human performance.\n\nSince the 1990s, several academics (such as some of the fellows of the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies) have risen to become cogent advocates of the case for human enhancement while other academics (such as the members of President Bush's Council on Bioethics) have become its most outspoken critics.\n\nAdvocacy of the case for human enhancement is increasingly becoming synonymous with \"transhumanism\", a controversial ideology and movement which has emerged to support the recognition and protection of the right of citizens to either maintain or modify their own minds and bodies; so as to guarantee them the freedom of choice and informed consent of using human enhancement technologies on themselves and their children.\n\nNeuromarketing consultant Zack Lynch argues that neurotechnologies will have a more immediate effect on society than gene therapy and will face less resistance as a pathway of radical human enhancement. He also argues that the concept of \"enablement\" needs to be added to the debate over \"therapy\" versus \"enhancement\".\n\nAlthough many proposals of human enhancement rely on fringe science, the very notion and prospect of human enhancement has sparked public controversy.\n\nMany critics argue that \"human enhancement\" is a loaded term which has eugenic overtones because it may imply the improvement of human hereditary traits to attain a universally accepted norm of biological fitness (at the possible expense of human biodiversity and neurodiversity), and therefore can evoke negative reactions far beyond the specific meaning of the term. Furthermore, they conclude that enhancements which are self-evidently good, like \"fewer diseases\", are more the exception than the norm and even these may involve ethical tradeoffs, as the controversy about ADHD arguably demonstrates.\n\nHowever, the most common criticism of human enhancement is that it is or will often be practiced with a reckless and selfish short-term perspective that is ignorant of the long-term consequences on individuals and the rest of society, such as the fear that some enhancements will create unfair physical or mental advantages to those who can and will use them, or unequal access to such enhancements can and will further the gulf between the \"haves\" and \"have-nots\".\n\nAccordingly, some advocates, who want to use more neutral language, and advance the public interest in so-called \"human enhancement technologies\", prefer the term \"enablement\" over \"enhancement\"; defend and promote rigorous, independent safety testing of enabling technologies; as well as affordable, universal access to these technologies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27265662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27265662", "title": "Postenpflicht", "text": "Postenpflicht\n\nThe Postenpflicht (\"Duty of Guards\") was part of a written order for SS guards in Nazi concentration camps regarding the use of firearms. It required SS guards to shoot prisoners who tried to escape or engage in resistance and to do so without verbal warning or a warning shot. This was relevant for example regarding the so-called \"death strip\" next to camp fences. The area next to these fences was off-limits and anyone getting too close to it was, in accordance with the Postenpflicht, killed without warning. The order stated that failure to shoot would result in the dismissal or arrest of the guard. Issued on October 1, 1933 as an order for Dachau, the order was later extended to other camps. \n\nDachau concentration camp opened on March 22, 1933. Though initially using local Munich policemen as guards, within weeks, they were replaced by the SS and on April 13, 1933, Hilmar Wäckerle, an SS-Standartenführer, became the first commandant. He was instructed by Heinrich Himmler, Munich chief of police and Obergruppenführer of the SS, to draw up a set of regulations for discipline in the camp. The rules were extremely harsh and several prisoners died as a direct result of their punishment.\n\nThe Munich prosecutor's office, not yet fully in line with National Socialist policy, in May 1933, began investigating the murder of several prisoners at Dachau concentration camp, prompted by the formal complaint of Sophie Handschuh, who wanted to know the true cause of her son's death at Dachau. Rumors were already widespread about harsh treatment of those under detention and Himmler was forced to refute those claims, even while announcing the opening of Dachau. Charges of murder were filed against Wäckerle and Himmler was forced to remove Wäckerle. The murder charges were later dropped after the chief prosecutor and his assistant were each transferred to other offices. Himmler continued his efforts to establish summary execution, then in practice only at Dachau, as a legitimate form of punishment.\n\nTheodor Eicke was commissioned to develop a new camp order and a new regulations handbook. He wrote the \"postenpflicht\" with instructions to fire on prisoners immediately and \"without warning\". Refusal to obey this order would bring serious consequences for camp personnel: summary dismissal and even arrest.\n\nThe \"Regulations for Prisoner Escorts and Guards\" (\"Dienstvorschrift für die Begleitpersonen und Gefangenenbewachung\") were dated and went into effect on October 1, 1933 The infamous \"Lagerordnung\", the \"Disciplinary and Penal Code for the Prison Camp\" were issued on the same date. Also known as the \"Strafkatalog\" (\"Penalty Catalogue\"), this list of rules, infractions and punishments went into effect immediately, as well and both sets of regulations were made effective at all the SS concentration camps a few months later, on January 1, 1934. Together, the regulations allowed guards to mete out harsh punishments for even minor infractions and gave them wide latitude to execute prisoners and over time, devolved into a general system of terror punishment.\n\nThe perimeter of the detention camp grounds was marked by electrified fences and walls. Alongside the wall was a moat and next to that was an area called the \"neutral zone\". Dubbed the \"death strip\" by prisoners, it was a forbidden area. A prisoner who even went near this area risked being shot by a guard invoking the \"postenpflicht\". Guards who shot a prisoner received a bounty and three days off. Guards, for their amusement and profit, would throw a prisoner's cap into the \"death zone\" and order the prisoner to get it \"on the double\" and then shoot the prisoner. They sometimes did this in pairs because they received a bounty for shooting a prisoner, so they would take turns in order to both get the bounty. Witnesses and former prisoners have also reported cases where prisoners intentionally walked into the forbidden zone, to escape the camp through death.\n\nPrisoner work details outside a concentration camp were called \"Außenkommandos\" (\"outside commandos\") by the SS. The SS guards would form a \"postenkette\", a cordon of guards to surround the work site and maintain watch. The imaginary boundary formed by the cordon was not to be crossed by a prisoner. Stepping outside the boundary was treated as an escape attempt and the guards, adhering to the \"postenpflicht\", were to fire without warning. If a prisoner did manage to escape, the SS guard was charged with \"negligent release of a prisoner\".\n\nThe \"postenpflicht\" was also valid for the SS-Totenkopfverbände that came to the concentration camps to serve as guards and auxiliary police. During the war years, female guards were also employed at concentration camps. As overseers, they were also ordered to use their firearms in the case of physical attack by a prisoner or an escape attempt.\n\nReich Minister of Justice Franz Gurtner was in contact with Reichsführer-SS Himmler to mitigate the \"postenpflicht\" a bit, but he was unable to accomplish anything.\n\nCamp commandants were also held accountable to the \"postenpflicht\". Karl Otto Koch was commandant at Majdanek concentration camp and on July 14, 1942, during his tenure, 200 Soviet prisoners of war escaped. Only half were later recaptured. In August 1942, Koch was charged with \"negligent release of a prisoner\" and was reprimanded with a disciplinary transfer to the lesser job of \"Postschutz\" in Eger.\n\nDachau concentration camp\n\n\"Headquarters, Oct. 1, 1933\"\n\nRegulations for Prisoner Escorts and Guards\n\n6. Postenpflicht\n\n\"Whoever allows a prisoner to escape will be arrested and charged with Negligent Prisoner Release and handed over to the Bavarian Political Police.\"\n\n\"If a prisoner attempts to escape, he is to be shot, without warning. A guard who shoots an escaping prisoner in the course of carrying out his duty, will not be reprimanded.\n\n\"Where a guard is physically attacked by a prisoner, the attack is to be repelled with use of a firearm, not return physical violence. A guard who does not comply with this order should expect his immediate dismissal. Besides, he who \"keeps his back free\"  will rarely be attacked.\"\n\n\"In the event of a revolt or organized prisoner resistance, every guard supervising is to fire upon them. Warning shots are strictly prohibited.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5672719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5672719", "title": "Rape by gender", "text": "Rape by gender\n\nRape by gender classifies types of rape by the sex or gender of both the rapist and the victim. This scope includes both rape and sexual assault more generally. Most research indicates that rape affects women disproportionately, with the majority of people convicted being men; however, since the broadening of the definition of rape in 2012 by the FBI, more attention is being given to male rape, including females raping males.\n\nSince only a small percentage of acts of sexual violence are brought to the attention of the authorities, it is difficult to compile accurate rape statistics. Conviction rates differ by the gender of both the perpetrator and victim. Various studies argue that male-male and female-female prison rape are quite common and may be the least reported form of rape. Furthermore, a large number of rape cases take place when the victims are below the age of consent, bringing in the issue of child sexual abuse or statutory rape.\n\nIn the 2001 national Youth Risk Behavior Survey, 10.2% of girls and 5.1% of boys reported \"[having] ever been physically forced to have sexual intercourse when [they] did not want to\". In a 2010 study of heterosexual couples where sexual coercion existed, 45% reported female victimization, 30% reported male victimization and 20% reported reciprocal victimization. In 2011, a study supported by a research grant from the Department of Education and Science of Spain found based on a \"convenience sample of 13,877 students in 32 nations\" that 2.4% of males and 1.8% of females admitted to having physically forced someone into having sex in the last year. In a 2014 study of 18,030 high school students, there was no statistically significant difference between males and females for the reported rate of having been physically forced to have sex.\n\nIn a 2000 research article from the Home Office, in England and Wales, around 1 in 20 women (5%) said that they had been raped at some point in their life from the age of 16 beyond.\n\nIn 2011, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) found that \"nearly 20% of all women\" in the United States suffered attempted rape or rape sometime in their life. More than a third of the victims were raped before the age of 18.\n\nAccording to a 2013 report by the CDC, 28% of victimized heterosexual women and a full 48% of bisexual women experienced their first rape between the ages of 11 and 17.\n\nMany rapes by males against females are unreported because of \"fear of reprisal from the assailant\" and because of \"shame...and deep-seated cultural notions that the woman is somehow to blame\". Researchers from the University of Surrey estimate that approximately 1 in 7 rapes by males against females are reported.\n\nPregnancy may result from rape. The rate varies between settings and depends particularly on the extent to which non-barrier contraceptives are being used. A study of adolescents in Ethiopia found that among those who reported being raped, 17% became pregnant after the rape, a figure which is similar to the 15–18% reported by rape crisis centres in Mexico. A longitudinal study in the United States of over 4000 women followed for 3 years found that the national rape related pregnancy rate was 5.0% per rape among victims aged 12–45 years, producing over 32,000 pregnancies nationally among women from rape each year. Experience of coerced sex at an early age reduces a woman’s ability to see her sexuality as something over which she has control.\n\nThe rape of women by men has been documented as a weapon of terror in warfare (see Wartime sexual violence).\n\nAssault by forcible stimulation of female genitalia by a female perpetrator is possible by digital manipulation, oral sex, strap-ons, other dildos or other foreign objects, or tribadism. A telephone survey conducted in 2010 for the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention found that 43.8% of lesbians reported having been raped, physically abused or stalked at some point by an intimate partner; of these, 67.4% reported the perpetrator or perpetrators as being exclusively female. In the same survey, approximately 1 in 8 lesbians (13.1%) reported having been raped in their lifetime, but the sex of their rapists was not reported.\n\nA 2005 survey by the California Coalition Against Sexual Assault (CALCASA) concluded that one in three lesbian-identified participants had been sexually assaulted by a woman. Fear of coming out, distrust of and/or indifference and hostility by the police, unwillingness to turn in members of the LGBT community, and a sense that female on female rape is not taken as seriously as rape by men causes some victims to be reluctant to report rapes by other women. In one publicized case involving students at Smith College in 2005, two women were charged with the rape of another, but the victim ultimately refused to testify, and charges were dropped.\n\nA CDC study found that, in the US, 1 in 71 men had been raped or suffered an attempt within their lifetime. The same study found that approximately 1 in 21 or 4.8% men in a survey had been made to penetrate someone else, usually an intimate partner or acquaintance. A NVAW Survey found that 0.1 percent of men surveyed had been raped in the previous 12 months, compared to 0.3 percent of women. Using these statistics it was estimated that, in the US, 92,748 men had been raped in the previous year. In another study by the School of Public Health at Boston University, 30 percent of gay and bisexual men reported having experienced at least one form of sexual assault during their lifetimes.\n\nThe rape of men has often been documented as a weapon of war.\n\nMale sexual assault is also prevalent on US college campuses. On US campuses, 1 in 16 men are survivors of sexual assault. Although the rate of male sexual assault is relatively high, many do not file reports due to the misconception of sexual assault being a women’s issue due to “preconceived notions about both sexual violence and gender.\"\n\nThere are some cases when men will speak up about being a survivor, such as in the documentary \"The Hunting Ground,\" which is about the prevalence of sexual assault on college campuses in the US and the failure of college administration to adequately deal with it.\n\nRape by males against males has been heavily stigmatized. According to psychologist Dr. Sarah Crome, fewer than 1 in 10 male-male rapes are reported. As a group, male rape victims reported a lack of services and support, and legal systems are often ill-equipped to deal with this type of crime.\n\nSeveral studies argue that male-male prisoner rape, as well as female-female prisoner rape, are common types of rape which go unreported even more frequently than rape in the general population. The rape of men by men has been documented as a weapon of terror in warfare (see Wartime sexual violence). Studies have documented incidents of male sexual violence as a weapon of wartime or political aggression in Uganda, Chile, Greece, Croatia, Iran, Kuwait, the former Soviet Union and the former Yugoslavia. Seventy-six percent of male political prisoners in El Salvador surveyed in the 1980s described at least one incidence of sexual torture, and a study of 6,000 concentration-camp inmates in Sarajevo found that 80% of men reported having been raped. In the case of the Syrian Civil War (2011–present), the male detainees experienced sexual abuse like being forced to sit on a broken glass bottle, getting their genitals tied to a heavy bag of water, or being forced to watch the rape of another detainee by the officials.\n\nMale victims of sexual abuse by females often face social, political, and legal double standards. Some cases in the United States have received increased attention and sparked awareness within the population. Sometimes referred to as \"made to penetrate\" cases (by the CDC and the NISVS), male rape victims are forced to engage in penetration of the female without proper consent. In many cases, the male victims are under the influence of drugs or being held in life-threatening positions. The case of Cierra Ross' sexual assault of a man in Chicago gained national headlines and Ross was convicted of aggravated criminal sexual abuse and armed robbery with a bail set at $75,000. A similar case includes James Landrith, who was made to penetrate a female acquaintance in a hotel room while incapacitated from drinking, along with his rapist citing the fact that she was pregnant to advise him not to struggle, as this might hurt the baby.\n\nIn the UK, the 1970s Mormon sex in chains case brought increased awareness of the possibility of female-on-male rape. A young Mormon missionary named Kirk Anderson went missing in 1977, in Ewell, Surrey, after being abducted from the steps of a church meetinghouse. A few days later, Anderson made a report to the police that he had been abducted and imprisoned against his will. He said that while chained to a bed, Joyce Bernann McKinney attempted to seduce him, and then raped him. News coverage was extensive, in part because the case was considered so anomalous, having involved the rape of a man by a woman. McKinney fled to the US, extradition was not pursued by Britain, and the English court sentenced McKinney \"in absentia\" to a year in jail. Under the then-Sexual Offences Act 1956, due to the victim's gender, technically no crime of rape was committed, though indecent assault of a man applied.\n\nSome male victims, including underage children, have been forced to pay child-support to their attacker when their rapist conceives a baby as a result of the attack.\n\nSeveral widely publicized cases of female-on-male statutory rape in the United States involved school teachers engaging in sexual intercourse with their underage students. Each of the 50 states has laws regarding the age of consent, but all have it set at 16, 17 or 18. These laws make any sexual encounters between adults and minors under the age of consent sexual assault (see Mary Kay Letourneau and Debra Lafave).\n"}
{"id": "45704273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45704273", "title": "Samatva", "text": "Samatva\n\nSamatva (Sanskrit: समत्व, also rendered \"samatvam\" or \"samata\") is the Hindu concept of equanimity. Its root is \"sama\" (सम) meaning – equal or even.\"Sāmya\" - meaning equal consideration towards all human beings - is a variant of the word.\n\"Samatva\" occupies a high place in the \"Bhagavad Gita\" where it means even-mindedness or what would be called in English \"equanimity\". Krishna in the context of metaphysical knowledge refers to equanimity when he tells Arjuna that all feelings are transitory and fleeting, तांस्तितिक्षस्व therefore ignore them for they have to be endured (II.14) and that the wise are न व्यथयन्ति not tormented by these feelings (II.15). He once again refers to even-mindedness in the context of \"svadharma\" when Arjuna is told not to waver in the performance of his duty or shirk his duty, and to treat alike victory and defeat, gain and loss etc., for then he will not incur sin (II.31-38). Therefore, Arjuna is told –\n\nThis \"sloka\" delineates the process of practicing Karma yoga which is a part of human nature and promotes tranquility. Man reaches the ultimate state of unshakable stability through the constant practice of indifference to success and failure of actions. Action with selfish motive does not result in even-mindedness. In the context of Karma yoga, Krishna tells Arjuna that the sages, by virtue of true knowledge, see with equal vision (समदर्शिनः) all beings of all castes and creed because the Atman is present in all bodies without any distinction (V.18), and affirms that – इहैव तैर्जितः सर्गो येषां साम्ये स्थितं मनः that those whose minds are established in sameness and equanimity have already conquered the conditions of birth and death to be established in the Eternal (V.19). And, that –\n\nThen for that yogi there remains nothing in this world which has a separate identity from him, and no pain whatsoever; conscious of all such experiences but not affected by them he works for the uplift of others. Thus, Krishna harmonizes \"Śreyas\" (personal salvation) and \"Lokasamgraha\" (good of the society) by linking \"Śreyas\" with 'even-mindedness' and \"Lokasamgrah\" with 'equal vision'.\n\nSwami Chinmayananda while commenting on Isha Upanishad (6), which speaks about the wise man beholding all beings in the Self, and the Self in all beings, gives the meaning of \"samatva\" as – the sameness of mind, inward tranquillity. The phrase 'All Beings' refers to the highest cosmic manifestation, and the phrase 'the Self in all beings' refers to Pure Consciousness, the inmost Atman of all embodied souls. The principle of \"Niśkāmakarma\" or the ideal of desire-less and motiveless action, does not bind the yogi to act’s consequences at the individual level; the yogi stays contented and even indifferent towards those very consequences; he knows that actions are not to be renounced, the fruits of actions alone are to be renounced. Once repulsion and action are removed what remains is \"samatva\".\n\nThe followers of Jainism consider the practice of \"samtava\" as \"Sādhanā\" because it is real human nature; they do not view \"samtava\" and \"dhyana\" as two varied aspects, according to them these two are interdependent, steadiness of the mind is reached by thinking about \"maitri\" (universal friendship), \"pramoda\" (emphasizing goodness), \"karuna\" (universal compassion) and \"madhyastha\" (indifference to sin of others). Mahavira had told Gautama that the nature of the soul is equanimity (\"Bhagavatisutra\" (9.386). Therefore, one who has \"samatva\" as his essential nature is called \"samayasāra\".\n\nIn Gandhian aesthetics, \"samatva\", understood as unity, equality, equanimity, balance and harmony in different perspectives, is the very essence of 'Sarvodya ideology'.\n"}
{"id": "21501796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21501796", "title": "Seriality", "text": "Seriality\n\nA seriality is a social construct which differs from a mere group of individuals. Serialities take the form of labels which are either imposed onto persons or voluntarily adopted by them. A seriality can be \"unbound\" and self-identified, for example workers, patriots, or anarchists, or \"bound\" and identified by authority census and elections, such as Asian-Americans or Tutsis.\n\nBenedict Anderson describes bound seriality as an insidious power grab by political authority. When a state gains an interest in power they may serialize their citizens in order to identify them, for example, forcing citizens to adopt a family name or (more recently) a national identification number. \n\nThe term is also used in gender studies.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18949308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949308", "title": "Shamordino Convent", "text": "Shamordino Convent\n\nThe Convent of St. Ambrose and Our Lady of Kazan (Казанская Амвросиевская ставропигиальная женская пустынь) is a stauropegial Russian Orthodox convent in the village of Shamordino, Kaluga Oblast, Russia. It is located on the Seryona River, from Optina Monastery.\n\nThe convent was founded near the village of Shamordino in 1884 by Sofia Bolotova, a local noblewoman, with the blessing of Saint Ambrose of Optina. The monastery's churches were designed by Sergey Sherwood and Roman Klein in a peculiar brick version of the Russian Revival. By 1918, some 800 women lived in the convent and its sketes, making it one of the largest monastic establishments in Central Russia. In 1910, after leaving Yasnaya Polyana, Leo Tolstoy planned to go to Shamordino, where his sister Maria was living as a nun. The convent was shut down by the Soviets from 1923 until 1990.\n\nThe sisterhood of Shamordino Convent were imprisoned in 1923 at the closure of the convent by the Soviet authorities, first in Solovki prison camp, then the sisterhood was broken up and dispersed and, with the exception of one striking account by American prisoner John H. Noble that emerged following his release some 30 years after the nuns' disappearance, it is generally unknown, apart from scant references, what became of any other members of the sisterhood thereafter.\n\nAccount of I.M. Andreyevsky, Professor, Psychiatrist, Author, and Political Prisoner\n\nThe account in English of what was the immediate fate of the nuns was provided by I.M. Andreyevsky () in \"The Orthodox Word\", a publication of monk Seraphim Rose and the Saint Herman of Alaska Monastery, which at the time of publication were under the Russian Orthodox Church Outside Russia. The following points highlight their imprisonment: Under orders from their spiritual father, also imprisoned at Solovki, they were not to do any work for the Soviet regime because the system was actively dismantling the Russian Orthodox Church. As a result of their steadfast adherence to the vow of obedience they had all taken upon their tonsure, they refused to do so much as a single stitch with a needle in service to the Soviets. They were threatened, beaten, tortured, starved, all to no avail. Finally, as a last resort, they were divided up and sent to various locations of forced labour and imprisonment throughout the Soviet Union in the hopes that total isolation would break their will and that they should submit to their captors. Other than these main details, little else was known of them until some 30 or 35 years later when an American prisoner was released and published his account (cited below) of his ten years of imprisonment in the Soviet Gulags.\n\nAccount of John H. Noble, American Political Prisoner\n\nThis account takes place at the arctic Vorkutlag prison camp nearing the end of the Stalin Era. The main points of John Noble's account are that they show that the wills of at least these three surviving nuns were unbroken, though they had by now been undergoing afflictions and punishments for some 25 years or so. They still refused to do any work whatsoever or under any circumstances. Moreover, they displayed astounding courage and strength: when subjected to torture, namely being placed in straitjackets that were extremely tight so as to cut off circulation, though writhing in agony they simply moaned quietly until they passed out. This was done repeatedly bringing them near to the point of death with no effect on breaking their will. After a respite, this torture was then increased in its torments by dousing the cotton jackets in water so that as it dried it tightened yet more. Again, racked with agony, yet to no avail. They endured all this without complaint or cursing their torturers but quietly and with a meek disposition. The camp commander, in a desperate bid to either get them to comply or die, then instructed them to be put outside in the snow on a hilltop in the winds of winter, and force them to stand there motionless for the full 8-hour workday and watch the other women prisoners work. Standing in prayer, they faithfully complied with this in the full sight of the other prisoners labouring in the fields. At the end of the day they returned, relaxed and warm, without any bodily damage. On the second day, the guards were ordered to put them out there again but stripped of hats and mittens. Though the workers were labouring and well-dressed they were complaining bitterly of the intense cold. The third day the same scene was repeated except that they had been divested of their scarves as well. On the fourth day, the guards were afraid and told the commandant that they refused to have any more to do with afflicting them. Even the commandant, being somewhat superstitious, was afraid at this point and relented. After that point, at least until John H. Noble's release, they were allowed to stay in a room by themselves, make habits for themselves, and were taken off punishment rations, being left in peace to observe their religious rule of prayer and communal life. This is the last that is known of what became of the \"Nuns of Shamordino\".\n\nWhile they have not been officially glorified (recognized as saints), they are commemorated on November 12 on the Julian Calendar by the Russian Orthodox Church Outside of Russia (ROCOR) which is in union with the Moscow Patriarchate. It should be noted that in the Orthodox Church there is no need for official declarations of sainthood as there is in Roman Catholicism where the process of canonization is different (see glorification). Many Eastern Orthodox saints have never been canonized in the official sense as practiced by the Vatican. Saint John Chrysostom is such an example where the Orthodox Church has never felt the need to issue an official document declaring him a \"canonical saint\" as such. Hence, here also, the veneration of many \"unofficial\" Orthodox confessors and martyrs who courageously refused to bend to the oppression of the Soviet State is exemplified and encouraged by the iconography that has arisen.\n\n"}
{"id": "3608055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608055", "title": "Sociology of gender", "text": "Sociology of gender\n\nSociology of gender is a prominent subfield of sociology. Social interaction directly correlated with sociology regarding social structure. One of the most important social structures is status. This is determined based on position that an individual possesses which effects how he/she will be treated by society. One of the most important statuses an individual claims is gender. Public discourse and the academic literature generally use the term \"gender\" for the perceived or projected (self-identified) masculinity or femininity of a person.\n\nThe term \"gender role\" was coined by John Money in a seminal 1955 paper where he defined it as \"all those things that a person says or does to disclose himself or herself as having the status of boy or man, girl or woman.\"\n\nA person's gender is complex, encompassing countless characteristics of appearance, speech, movement and other factors not solely limited to biological sex. Societies tend to have gender systems in which everyone is categorized as male or female. Some societies include a third gender role; for instance, the Native American Two-Spirit people and the Hijras of India. There is debate over the extent to which gender is a social construct or a biological construct .\n\nDuring the 1970s, there was no consensus about how the terms were to be applied. In the 1974 edition of \"Masculine/Feminine or Human\", the author uses \"innate gender\" and \"learned sex roles\", but in the 1978 edition, the use of \"sex\" and \"gender\" is reversed. By 1980, most feminist writings had agreed on using \"gender\" only for socioculturally adapted traits.\n\nLiberal feminism is the belief that individuals should be free to develop their own talents and pursue their interests. Individuals seek to expand equality by removing the barriers in society. Socialist feminism thinks that capitalism strengthens patriarchy by concentrating wealth and power in the hands of a few. The traditional family structure should be replaced by a collective revolution. In Radical feminism, they believe that patriarchy is so deeply rooted in society that even a sociological revolution would not end it; Society must eliminate gender itself.\n\nIn English, both \"sex\" and \"gender\" are used in contexts where they could not be substituted (sexual intercourse; anal sex; safe sex; sex worker; sex slave). Other languages, like German, use the same word \"Geschlecht\" to refer both to grammatical gender and to biological sex, making the distinction between \"sex\" and \"gender\" advocated by some anthropologists difficult. In some contexts, German has adopted the English loan-word \"gender\" to achieve this distinction. Sometimes 'Geschlechtsidentität' is used as gender (although it literally means \"gender identity\") and 'Geschlecht' as sex (translation of Judith Butler's \"Gender Trouble\"). More common is the use of modifiers: \"biologisches Geschlecht\" for \"sex\", \"Geschlechtsidentität\" for \"gender identity\" and \"Geschlechterrolle\" for \"gender role\" etc.\n\nMedia criticism is a reflection of the gender inequality in society through print, advertisements, television and music. Media influences and reinforces the idea of The Beauty Myth as discussed in Naomi Wolf's book, The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women, which refers to unrealistic standards of beauty for women. Some argue that the mainstream media perpetuates the idea of hetero-masculinity by portraying men as dominant. Some also argue that the media objectifies and oppresses women, and men who don't fall into the heteronormative category.\n\nThrough the media, men are taught to be ultra-masculine by being desensitized, violent, and physically strong. Other forms of media that often portray the ultra-masculine figure are advertisements, specifically beer commercials. These forms encourage men to oppress other men if they do not fit the ideals of heteromasculinity.\n\nObjectification of women refers to instances in the media in which women may be viewed as, or directly compared to, insentient objects that can be acquired and/or possessed. This can be examined in the context of advertisements, where objects may be anthropomorphized and given feminine qualities or aspects of the female form. Some studies indicate that widespread objectification of women in the media may have significant repercussions on society, such as low self-esteem and/or eating disorders among women.\n\nSocialization theory offers a straightforward account of the acquisition of gendered identities. Infants are seen as blank slates, waiting to be written down on by their environment. Through their interactions with people close to them and exposure to the values of their society, infants learn what sex is attributed to them and what roles they are expected to learn. Reinforcement (through rewarding gender-appropriate behavior and punishing what may seem as deviant behavior) socializes children into their genders. Parents, for example, are far more likely to engage with their sons in rough physical play than they are with their daughters, and it has been argued that long-term consequences may follow (in this case, a head start for boys in the development of physical violence and aggressiveness.)\n\nParents and family can influence the way that a child develops their view of gender. These types of influences can include parental attitudes and difference of treatment regarding male and female children. Researcher Susan Witt claims that parents also expose children to gender from the time they are born via specific toys, colors, and names associated with genders in the binary. Witt suggests that parental attitudes about gender can differ from male to female children and that these attitudes develop quickly after a child's birth.\n\nAuthor Susan Grieshaber, in \"Constructing the Gendered Infant\", suggests that attitudes regarding pregnancy change after parents find out the sex of their child, subsequently changing parental attitudes towards the unborn child. According to Grieshaber's theory, once parents determine the sex of their unborn child, they assume a gender while planning for the child's arrival. Because of this, Grieshaber claims that infants are born into a gendered world where they never know anything other than the gender traits that are assumed due to their sex. Dr. Kara Smith utilizes similar theory throughout the analysis of her pregnancy journals kept throughout her second pregnancy. Smith concluded that her attitude towards her child changed after learning that her child’s sex was male. Smith's claim is reflected in changes in tone of voice when talking to the unborn child as well as differences in physical touch of her stomach throughout the rest of her pregnancy. Another theory of gender socialization, discussed by Susan McHale, is that the gender roles and attitudes of older siblings can impact the gender roles adopted by younger children. Throughout the findings of McHale's study, it is maintained that parents still have the most familial influence on childhood socialization.\n\nBy the time children reach the age of three, many will have acquired a firm sense of themselves as male or female, a gender identity that remains throughout life. In addition, many pre-schoolers develop a firm awareness of gender stereotypes, insisting that certain activities or items of clothing are not for girls and others not for boys. Yet gender identity does not automatically follow from biological sex.\n\nAdults respond differently to communicative efforts of boys and girls. A study of infants aged 13 months found that when boys demand attention - by behaving aggressively, or crying, whining or screaming - they tended to get it. By contrast, adults tended to respond to girls only when they used language, gestures, or gentle touches; girls who used attention-seeking techniques were likely ignored. There was little difference in the communicative patterns at the start of the study, but by the age of two, the girls have become more talkative and boys more assertive in their communicative techniques.\n\nThe norms that are taught throughout childhood are influential in an individual's life because the ideas about gender that are typically taught by parents in early years are reinforced outside of the home. A study done by Dr. Mick Cunningham states that the normative behaviors and attitudes that children observe can influence the way that these children grow up to structure their own households in adulthood. Normative gender roles can be reinforced outside of the household, adding power to these hegemonic ideas about gender. An analysis of children’s books in the twenty-first century, by Janice McCabe, suggests that this particular avenue of children’s media symbolically annihilates females, representing them about half as often as that of males. Underrepresentation such as this can affect children and their views of gender. Children’s TV networks, such as Disney, Nickelodeon, and Cartoon Network have demonstrated a disproportional representation of males and females on their respective shows in a study done by Beth Hentges and Kim Case. According to Hentges and Case, there are less female characters across all three children’s networks; however, there is more propagation of stereotypical gendered behavior on Cartoon Network and Nickelodeon than that of Disney.\n\nSome children are raised in atypical households that challenge normative gender roles. In Jada Tidwell's study, she observes the play of children who come from households with lesbian feminist mothers (both single mothers and couples). Tidwell's observations consisted of both individual play as well as play integrated with the mothers. As a result of these observations, Tidwell asserts that atypical environments can affect children’s lives and ideas. According to Tidwell, households that challenge hegemonic cultural ideas ultimately give children a different perspective of gender than those of children raised in heterosexual, two parent households. In the families studied by Jada Tidwell, children reported ideas that both endorsed and challenged stereotypical gender roles at times. In a different study, Abbie Goldberg observed toddlers from various types of households and how these children engaged in play. Goldberg's findings suggest that children whose parents are of the same gender tend to play in ways that are less adherent to stereotypical gender roles than children from heterosexual households. Susan Witt, in her article “Parental Influence on Children’s Socialization to Gender Roles’, advocates for androgynous gender roles in parenting, arguing that environments are more open minded about gender and encouraging to both their sons and daughters.\n\nOne of the most influential of the psychoanalytic theories of gender identity is the perspective developed in the book The Reproduction of Mothering. Its author, Nancy Chodorow, traces the implications for emotional development by linking them with the way mothers usually care for their infants in their formative years, while fathers are more emotionally distant. The development of an identity takes place as the infant gets more and more separated from his/her mother, with whom the infant is initially psychically merged. This process however operates differently for boys and girls. Girls can separate gradually, maintain a continuous sense of relationship with the mother, who is after all experienced as alike. For boys, on the other hand, separating from the mother, who is experienced as different, involves repressing the feminine aspects of themselves and rejecting their tenderness that was central to that early relationship. Boys' sense of maleness, according to Chodorow, is achieved at a great emotional cost.\n\nConsequently, men grow up to have a more autonomous sense of self, and to be more independent, more instrumental and competitive in their dealings with others. They are also more likely to have difficulty expressing their emotions and to be anxious about intimacy. Women, on the other hand, have more ability and more need to sustain relationship with others.; they have greater empathy with others. They have difficulty however in maintaining the boundaries of an independent and autonomous self.\n\nChodorow however believes that these patterns aren't inevitable. Changes in the social arrangements for care of children such as dual parenting, which would involve fathers in emotional intimacy with their children, can break the cycle.\n\nBefore industrialization, economic activity, which centered around agricultural work, crafts and so on, was organized by households. Household members, whether male or female, young or old, contributed to the family's livelihood. Although women might do some types of work and men others, depending on region and class, the distinction between men as breadwinners and women as housewives didn't characterize pre-industrial divisions of labor.\n\nIndustrialization shifted much productive activity to factories, shops and offices. This separation of work from home signaled a profound change in gender relations and gender discourse. The home came to be understood not as the site of a family enterprise, but as a refuge from the world of work. Women were defined as the keepers of the home, as it was seen as their nature to create harmony and virtue rather than services and goods. Preindustrial society relied on gendered roles in the workforce to create equilibrium between men and women. Men were assigned the hunter role while women were assigned the domestic roles. Men were expected to supply food and shelter for the family while women were the caretakers for the children and their household. As centuries passed, this continued and created a divide in gendered roles in labor. Women remained dependent on men to provide, this dependence led to male roles being more valued in society which still remains in the 21st century.\n\nSome research has found that, in classroom settings, male students tend to talk more, and longer, than female students. This was determined to be particularly noticeable when the instructor is male.\n\nSimilar results were found previously in hospitals by Erving Goffman in 1961, university discussion groups by Elizabeth Aries in 1972, and in corporate settings by Rosabeth Kanter in 1977.\n\nWomen and men experience different types of mobility within the workplace. Women tend to experience a glass ceiling, an invisible barrier that prevents them from moving up the corporate ladder. Men in jobs traditionally held by women, such as nursing, elementary school teaching, and social work, experience a \"glass escalator\" effect in which they are able to quickly ascend the job hierarchy to become managers and principals. There also tends to be a gender pay gap between men and women, with women earning 77% as much as men.\nOne cause of the gender pay gap may be due to occupational segregation, which pushes men and women towards gender-specific forms of employment, rather than pay discrimination. Another cause is the double burden, a phenomenon in which women perform most of the unpaid childcare and household work despite being otherwise employed for pay. A third cause is occupational sexism, one part of which favors men for promotions due to their traditional breadwinner status. The 2001 class action lawsuit, Dukes v. Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., charged Wal-Mart with sexist hiring and promotion practices.\n\nIn addition, the emergence of transgender individuals in the workplace has begun to disrupt the gender binary of male and female. By creating a hybrid gender identity, the transgender community suggests notions of movement toward postgenderism.\n\nIntersectionality is a Neo-Marxist concept stemming from a critical theory social analysis of class, race, and gender. The theory of intersectionality argues that forms of \"inequality, oppression, and privilege\" are shaped by interconnected axes of identity, and are mutually reinforced by social interactions and by social, political, and economic structures, such as capitalism, patriarchy, and institutionalized heteronormativity. The theory of Intersectionality argues that race, class, gender, and other markers of identity are social constructions. This theory argues against the assumption that systems of power relations are normative and can hold individuals accountable for their own character and efforts.\n\nWest & Fenstermaker in their 1995 article \"Doing Difference\" offer that models that conceive gender, race and class as distinct axes are highly limiting in their understanding of the whole experience or identity of an individual. For example, they critique the additive model, in which the whole will never be greater (or lesser) than the sum of it parts. By analyzing each identity marker as an individual characteristic, we ignore the effect of the interconnection of these markers.\n\nAdditional sociologists have written about the intersectionality of class, race, and gender. Joan Acker outlines four gendered processes of intersectionality. The first includes procedures that create hierarchies based on gender and race. Another is the process in which social images and ideas condone gendered institutions. The third is a process of interaction between individuals and groups that, through communication, creates gender. The fourth is the internal labeling of the self and others to gendered personas. Evelyn Nakano Glenn critiques both the patriarchy model of gender, which ignores racial differences among oppressed women, and the internal colonialism model, which focuses on minority populations in general, ignoring gender differences.\n\nEmbodiment may be defined as the ways in which cultural ideals of gender in a given society create expectations for and influence the form of our bodies. There is a bidirectional relationship between biology and culture; by embodying societally determined gender roles we reinforce cultural ideals and simultaneously shape, both temporarily and permanently, our bodies, which then perpetuates the cultural ideal. While there is actually more variation in body type within the male and female sexes than there is between the two sexes, embodiment exaggerates the perceived bodily differences between gender categories.\n\nSocial embodiment, for both men and women, is variable across cultures and over time. Examples of women embodying gender norms across cultures include foot binding practices in Chinese culture, neck rings in African and Asian cultures, and corsets in Western cultures. Another interesting phenomenon has been the practice of wearing high heels, which shifted from a masculine fashion to a feminine fashion over time. In the United States, the ideal body image and dimensions have changed for both women and men, with the body ideal female body shape becoming progressively slimmer and the body ideal for men becoming progressively larger.\n\nThese differences are epitomized in the example of children's toys; G.I. Joe dolls depict the physical ideals for boys and Barbie dolls embody the ideals for girls. The Beauty Myth, as discussed in Naomi Wolf's book The Beauty Myth: How Images of Beauty Are Used Against Women, refers to the unattainable standard of beauty for women, which sustains consumer culture. In contrast, men's bodies are also \"dictated\" by cultural ideals of gender, as is evident in consumer culture—especially beer commercials—in which men are portrayed as outdoorsy, tough, strong, and \"manly.\"\n\nSexuality encompasses both sexual behavior and sexual desire. However, Heteronormativity structures social life so that Heterosexuality is always assumed, expected, ordinary and privileged. Its pervasiveness makes it difficult for people to imagine other ways of life. Mass media works to glorify heterosexuality, which in turn lends to its pervasiveness and to its power. Both ordinary and exceptional constructions of heterosexuality work to normalize heterosexuality; thus, it becomes difficult to imagine anything other than this form of social relationship or anyone outside of these bonds.\n\nThere is a common perception of heterosexuality as the \"natural\" emotional and sensual inclination for Human sexuality. Furthermore, marital heterosexuality occupies the largely invisible core of normative and desirable sexuality, while all other sexualities are marginalized and considered perverse and unnatural. Alfred Kinsey created a Heterosexual-Homosexual Rating Scale called the Kinsey Scale, which challenges the common perception of Human sexuality as strictly binary and directly linked to Gender. Drag queens are an example of \"troubling\" gender, complicating the understanding of sexuality in our society by causing people to think outside the binary of male/female.\n\nFriedrich Engels argued that in hunter-gatherer societies the activities of men and women, although different, had the same importance. As technological advances let to productive surplus, social equality and communal sharing gave way to private property and ultimately class hierarchy. With the rise of agriculture, men gained significant power over women. With surplus wealth to pass on to their heirs, upper class men wanted to ensure their sons were indeed theirs, which led them to control the sexuality of women. The desire to control property brought about monogamous marriage and family. Women were taught to remain virgins until marriage and remain faithful to their husbands thereafter, and to build their lives around bearing and raising one man's children.\n\nMasculinity is a performed gender identity. Contrary to popular perception, it is not the same as sex or sexual orientation. The contents and practices of masculinity are socially constructed and reproduced through daily interaction, especially on a more micro scale. Theorists West & Zimmerman emphasized that gender is maintained through accountability. Men are expected to perform masculinity to the point that it is naturalized. Thus, a man's status depends on his performance. It is important to note, however, that masculinity can be performed by any sex.\n\nThe dominant form of masculinity in a society is known as hegemonic masculinity. Men are constantly performing this to prove their status as men. It is not really possible to reach it, especially as peers are in constant surveillance of each other, looking for flaws in their performance. Hegemonic masculinity is constructed in opposition to femininity and is dominant to all other gender identities (including alternative masculinities). Men are socialized from birth to perform it, especially through behavior and symbolism. One of the prominent behaviors is aggression in order to protect one's reputation. An example of symbols used would be clothing.\n\nSociologist Michael Kimmel describes three cultures that support masculinity (especially in young men) in his 2008 book, \"Guyland\":\n\nSome of the prominent attitudes and behaviors of western hegemonic masculinity are: power, sexual dominance and activity, wealth, aggression, independence, and lack of emotion. Less extreme sexual harassment is often seen as normal behavior. Exemplifying control theory, the norms of masculinity are so rigidly ingrained that men find little room to escape and end up constantly reproducing them.\n\nHegemonic masculinity is often reproduced and reinforced through media and culture. \"Media representations of men…often glorify men's use of physical force, a daring demeanor, virility, and emotional distance.\" Contemporary rap music is a striking example of masculinity on display. Rappers boast about their sexual conquests of women (emphasizing heterosexuality as well), wealth, power and violence.\n\nGender-based violence is the physical, sexual or emotional harm or suffering enacted upon an individual as contextualized by societal gender norms. Violence affects the lives of millions worldwide, in all socio-economic and educational classes. It cuts across cultural and religious barriers, impeding the right of many to participate fully in society. Violence is about power, control, and domination. Systems of inequality and oppression interact positioning certain groups as particularly vulnerable to violence. Gendered violence takes place within a socially constructed power dynamic in which one ideology (masculinity) dominates another (femininity). What it means to be a woman in society is influenced and ascribed by the media, which acts a \"powerful educational force\". The media glamorizes violence against women cultivating a \"toxic cultural environment\" in which women are institutionally positioned as inferior and worthy objects of violence.\n\nMen are disproportionally the offenders, and women disproportionally the victims. Those that commit violent crimes are overwhelmingly male—rape (98%), armed robbery (92%), drunk driving (90%), murder (88%), aggravated assault (87%), arson (86%), and family violence (83%). According to Michael Kimmel, hegemonic masculinity creates a culture of entitlement, silence, and protection, which effectively normalizes violence against women and silences victims of violence.\n\nThe Declaration on the Elimination of Violence defines three social arenas in which violence commonly takes place (1) in the family—including domestic violence, infanticide, and traditional practices such as female genital mutilation, foot binding, and bride burning; (2) in the community—including rape, sexual assault, sexual harassment, and commercialized violence such as sexual slavery, labor exploitation, female migrant workers; and (3) by the State—including violence against women in detention, and in situations of armed conflict such as systematic war rape. In order to address and end gendered violence, solutions must address both the root causes and interpersonal manifestations of gender roles and power relations in order to ensure a balance of power at all levels of society.\n\nGlobalization refers to the increasingly global relationships of culture, people and economic activity. Globalization impacts female equality on a large and international scale, both negatively and positively. With continuous changes in international relations, the perception of feminism in Western and Nonwestern societies is frequently revised. It is important to be wary of Western bias in sociological accounts of global feminism, as Modern Western society is not always due credit for feminist reform in other cultures and countries.\n\nFeminist sentiments – or a push for gender equality – emerge as a result of the nation-specific circumstances, not according to the exported beliefs of Western society. Advances in female equality and status are often not the result of national groups or corporations, but of individuals and small groups.\n\nOne of the results of globalization is the increased use of female factory workers in nonwestern countries. In Mexico, the female worker is ideal because she is seen as docile and inexpensive labor. Stereotypical feminine traits such as beauty, domesticity, and docility are exaggerated and exploited for the production of goods. These gender traits then frame the behavior of the women beyond the occupational realm. Despite increasing feminism, the lack of economic and social mobility prevents women in many nations from having equal status in society.\n\nOne of the solutions to erasing gender inequalities globally, is to provide resources and funds to impoverished women who will in turn use them for education as well as business ventures. The global economy could benefit drastically from incorporating educated women into the workforce.\n\nThroughout history, and around the world, the idea of a third gender has existed. In Native American culture, the two spiririt had gender roles different from men and women. The muxe of southern Mexico are males who identify as neither male or female. In Samoa the Fa'afafine are biological males who identify as females. The hijra are biological males who identify as women. They are considered outsiders in their communities and have formed their own language. In the United States, the concept of a third gender is beginning to gain traction. California now allows for drivers licenses to have the gender \"non-binary\", see genderqueer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31392778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31392778", "title": "Space tether", "text": "Space tether\n\nSpace tethers are long cables which can be used for propulsion, momentum exchange, stabilization and attitude control, or maintaining the relative positions of the components of a large dispersed satellite/spacecraft sensor system. Depending on the mission objectives and altitude, spaceflight using this form of spacecraft propulsion is theorized to be significantly less expensive than spaceflight using rocket engines.\n\nTether satellites might be used for various purposes, including research into tether propulsion, tidal stabilization and orbital plasma dynamics. Five main techniques for employing space tethers are in development:\n\nElectrodynamic tethers\nMomentum exchange tethers\nTethered formation flying\nElectric sail\nUniversal Orbital Support System\n\nMany uses for space tethers have been proposed, including deployment as space elevators, as skyhooks, and for doing propellant-free orbital transfers.\n\nKonstantin Tsiolkovsky once proposed a tower so tall that it reached into space, so that it would be held there by the rotation of the Earth. However, at the time, there was no realistic way to build it.\n\nTo try to solve the problems in \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" (July 31, 1960), another Russian, Yuri Artsutanov, wrote in greater detail about the idea of a tensile cable to be deployed from a geosynchronous satellite, downwards towards the ground, and upwards away, keeping the cable balanced. This is the space elevator idea, a type of synchronous tether that would rotate with the earth. However, given the materials technology of the time, this too was impractical on Earth.\n\nIn the 1970s, Jerome Pearson independently conceived the idea of a space elevator, sometimes referred to as a synchronous tether, and, in particular, analyzed a lunar elevator that can go through the L1 and L2 points, and this was found to be possible with materials then existing.\n\nIn 1977, Hans Moravec and later Robert L. Forward investigated the physics of non-synchronous skyhooks, also known as rotating skyhooks, and performed detailed simulations of tapered rotating tethers that could pick objects off, and place objects onto, the Moon, Mars and other planets, with little loss, or even a net gain of energy.\n\nIn 1979, NASA examined the feasibility of the idea and gave direction to the study of tethered systems, especially tethered satellites.\n\nIn 1990, E. Sarmont proposed a non-rotating Orbiting Skyhook for an Earth-to-orbit / orbit-to-escape-velocity Space Transportation System in a paper titled \"An Orbiting Skyhook: Affordable Access to Space\". In this concept a suborbital launch vehicle would fly to the bottom end of a Skyhook, while spacecraft bound for higher orbit, or returning from higher orbit, would use the upper end.\n\nIn 2000, NASA and Boeing considered a HASTOL concept, where a rotating tether would take payloads from a hypersonic aircraft (at half of orbital velocity) to orbit.\n\nA tether satellite is a satellite connected to another by a space tether. A number of satellites have been launched to test tether technologies, with varying degrees of success.\n\nThere are many different (and overlapping) types of tether.\n\nMomentum Exchange Tethers are one of many applications for space tethers. Momentum Exchange Tethers come in two types; rotating and non-rotating. A rotating tether will create a controlled force on the end-masses of the system due to centrifugal acceleration. While the tether system rotates, the objects on either end of the tether will experience continuous acceleration; the magnitude of the acceleration depends on the length of the tether and the rotation rate. Momentum exchange occurs when an end body is released during the rotation. The transfer of momentum to the released object will cause the rotating tether to lose energy, and thus lose velocity and altitude. However, using electrodynamic tether thrusting, or ion propulsion the system can then re-boost itself with little or no expenditure of consumable reaction mass.\n\nA skyhook is a theoretical class of orbiting tether propulsion intended to lift payloads to high altitudes and speeds. Proposals for skyhooks include designs that employ tethers spinning at hypersonic speed for catching high speed payloads or high altitude aircraft and placing them in orbit.\n\nElectrodynamic tethers are long conducting wires, such as one deployed from a tether satellite, which can operate on electromagnetic principles as generators, by converting their kinetic energy to electrical energy, or as motors, converting electrical energy to kinetic energy. Electric potential is generated across a conductive tether by its motion through the earth's magnetic field. The choice of the metal conductor to be used in an electrodynamic tether is determined by a variety of factors. Primary factors usually include high electrical conductivity and low density. Secondary factors, depending on the application, include cost, strength, and melting point.\n\nAn electrodynamic tether was profiled in the documentary film \"Orphans of Apollo\" as technology that was to be used to keep the Russian space station \"Mir\" in orbit.\n\nThis is the use of a (typically) non-conductive tether to connect multiple spacecraft. A proposed 2011 experiment to study the technique is the Tethered Experiment for Mars inter-Planetary Operations (TEMPO³).\n\nA theoretical type of non-rotating tethered satellite system, it is a concept for providing space-based support to things suspended above an astronomical object. The orbital system is a coupled mass system wherein the upper supporting mass (A) is placed in an orbit around a given celestial body such that it can support a suspended mass (B) at a specific height above the surface of the celestial body, but lower than (A).\n\nInstead of rotating end for end, tethers can also be kept straight by the slight difference in the strength of gravity over their length.\n\nA non-rotating tether system has a stable orientation that is aligned along the local vertical (of the earth or other body). This can be understood by inspection of the figure below where two spacecraft at two different altitudes have been connected by a tether. Normally, each spacecraft would have a balance of gravitational (e.g. F) and centrifugal (e.g. F), but when tied together by a tether, these values begin to change with respect to one another. This phenomenon occurs because, without the tether, the higher-altitude mass would travel slower than the lower mass. The system must move at a single speed, so the tether must therefore slow down the lower mass and speed up the upper one. The centrifugal force of the tethered upper body is increased, while that of the lower-altitude body is reduced. This results in the centrifugal force of the upper body and the gravitational force of the lower body being dominant. This difference in forces naturally aligns the system along the local vertical, as seen in the figure.\n\nObjects in low Earth orbit are subjected to noticeable erosion from atomic oxygen due to the high orbital speed with which the molecules strike as well as their high reactivity. This could quickly erode a tether.\n\nSimple single-strand tethers are susceptible to micrometeoroids and space junk. Several systems have since been proposed and tested to improve debris resistance:\n\nLarge pieces of junk would still cut most tethers, including the improved versions listed here, but these are currently tracked on radar and have predictable orbits. A tether could be wiggled to dodge known pieces of junk, or thrusters used to change the orbit, avoiding a collision.\n\nTether properties and materials are dependent on the application. However, there are some common properties. To achieve maximum performance and low cost, tethers would need to be made of materials with the combination of high strength or electrical conductivity and low density. All space tethers are susceptible to space debris or micrometeroids. Therefore, system designers will need to decide whether or not a protective coating is needed, including relative to UV and atomic oxygen. Research is being conducted to assess the probability of a collision that would damage the tether MAST.\n\nFor applications that exert high tensile forces on the tether, the materials need to be strong and light. Some current tether designs use crystalline plastics such as ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, aramid or carbon fiber. A possible future material would be carbon nanotubes, which have an estimated tensile strength between 140 and 177 GPa (20.3-25.6 million psi), and a proven tensile strength in the range 50-60 GPa for some individual nanotubes. (A number of other materials obtain 10 to 20 GPa in some samples on the nano scale, but translating such strengths to the macro scale has been challenging so far, with, as of 2011, CNT-based ropes being an order of magnitude less strong, not yet stronger than more conventional carbon fiber on that scale).\n\nFor some applications, the tensile force on the tether is projected to be less than 15 lbs (< 65 N) Material selection in this case depends on the purpose of the mission and design constraints. Electrodynamic tethers, such as the one used on TSS-1R, may use thin copper wires for high conductivity (see EDT).\n\nThere are design equations for certain applications that may be used to aid designers in identifying typical quantities that drive material selection.\n\nSpace elevator equations typically use a \"characteristic length\", L, which is also known as its \"self-support length\" and is the length of untapered cable it can support in a constant 1 \"g\" gravity field.\nwhere σ is the stress limit (in pressure units) and ρ is the density of the material.\n\nHypersonic skyhook equations use the material's \"specific velocity\" which is equal to the maximum tangential velocity a spinning hoop can attain without breaking:\n\nFor rotating tethers (rotovators) the value used is the material’s ‘characteristic velocity’ which is the maximum tip velocity a rotating untapered cable can attain without breaking,\nThe characteristic velocity equals the specific velocity multiplied by the square root of two.\n\nThese values are used in equations similar to the rocket equation and are analogous to specific impulse or exhaust velocity. The higher these values are, the more efficient and lighter the tether can be in relation to the payloads that they can carry. Eventually however, the mass of the tether propulsion system will be limited at the low end by other factors such as momentum storage.\n\nProposed materials include Kevlar, ultra high molecular weight polyethylene, carbon nanotubes and M5 fiber. M5 is a synthetic fiber that is lighter than Kevlar or Spectra. According to Pearson, Levin, Oldson, and Wykes in their article \"The Lunar Space Elevator\", an M5 ribbon 30 mm wide and 0.023 mm thick, would be able to support 2000 kg on the lunar surface. It would also be able to hold 100 cargo vehicles, each with a mass of 580 kg, evenly spaced along the length of the elevator. Other materials that could be used are T1000G carbon fiber, Spectra 2000, or Zylon.\n\nFor gravity stabilised tethers, to exceed the self-support length the tether material can be tapered so that the cross-sectional area varies with the total load at each point along the length of the cable. In practice this means that the central tether structure needs to be thicker than the tips. Correct tapering ensures that the tensile stress at every point in the cable is exactly the same. For very demanding applications, such as an Earth space elevator, the tapering can reduce the excessive ratios of cable weight to payload weight.\n\nFor rotating tethers not significantly affected by gravity, the thickness also varies, and it can be shown that the area, A, is given as a function of r (the distance from the centre) as follows:\nwhere R is the radius of tether, v is the velocity with respect to the centre, M is the tip mass, formula_5 is the material density, and T is the design tensile strength (Young's modulus divided by safety factor).\n\nIntegrating the area to give the volume and multiplying by the density and dividing by the payload mass gives a payload mass / tether mass ratio of:\nwhere erf is the normal probability error function.\n\nLet formula_7,\nthen:\nThis equation can be compared with the rocket equation, which is proportional to a simple exponent on a velocity, rather than a velocity squared. This difference effectively limits the delta-v that can be obtained from a single tether.\n\nIn addition the cable shape must be constructed to withstand micrometeorites and space junk. This can be achieved with the use of redundant cables, such as the Hoytether; redundancy can ensure that it is very unlikely that multiple redundant cables would be damaged near the same point on the cable, and hence a very large amount of total damage can occur over different parts of the cable before failure occurs.\n\nBeanstalks and rotovators are currently limited by the strengths of available materials. Although ultra-high strength plastic fibers (Kevlar and Spectra) permit rotovators to pluck masses from the surface of the Moon and Mars, a rotovator from these materials cannot lift from the surface of the Earth. In theory, high flying, supersonic (or hypersonic) aircraft could deliver a payload to a rotovator that dipped into Earth's upper atmosphere briefly at predictable locations throughout the tropic (and temperate) zone of Earth. As of May 2013, all mechanical tethers (orbital and elevators) are on hold until stronger materials are available.\n\nCargo capture for rotovators is nontrivial, and failure to capture can cause problems. Several systems have been proposed, such as shooting nets at the cargo, but all add weight, complexity, and another failure mode. At least one lab scale demonstration of a working grapple system has been achieved however.\n\nCurrently, the strongest materials in tension are plastics that require a coating for protection from UV radiation and (depending on the orbit) erosion by atomic oxygen. Disposal of waste heat is difficult in a vacuum, so overheating may cause tether failures or damage.\n\nElectrodynamic tethers deployed along the local vertical ('hanging tethers') may suffer from dynamical instability. Pendular motion causes the tether vibration amplitude to build up under the action of electromagnetic interaction. As the mission time increases, this behavior can compromise the performance of the system. Over a few weeks, electrodynamic tethers in Earth orbit might build up vibrations in many modes, as their orbit interacts with irregularities in magnetic and gravitational fields.\n\nOne plan to control the vibrations is to actively vary the tether current to counteract the growth of the vibrations. Electrodynamic tethers can be stabilized by reducing their current when it would feed the oscillations, and increasing it when it opposes oscillations. Simulations have demonstrated that this can control tether vibration. This approach requires sensors to measure tether vibrations, which can either be an inertial navigation system on one end of the tether, or satellite navigation systems mounted on the tether, transmitting their positions to a receiver on the end.\n\nAnother proposed method is to use spinning electrodynamic tethers instead of hanging tethers. The gyroscopic effect provides passive stabilisation, avoiding the instability.\n\nAs mentioned earlier, conductive tethers have failed from unexpected current surges. Unexpected electrostatic discharges have cut tethers (e.g. see Tethered Satellite System Reflight (TSS‑1R) on STS‑75), damaged electronics, and welded tether handling machinery. It may be that the Earth's magnetic field is not as homogeneous as some engineers have believed.\n\nComputer models frequently show tethers can snap due to vibration.\n\nMechanical tether-handling equipment is often surprisingly heavy, with complex controls to damp vibrations. The one ton climber proposed by Dr. Brad Edwards for his Space Elevator may detect and suppress most vibrations by changing speed and direction. The climber can also repair or augment a tether by spinning more strands.\n\nThe vibration modes that may be a problem include skipping rope, transverse, longitudinal, and pendulum.\n\nTethers are nearly always tapered, and this can greatly amplify the movement at the thinnest tip in whip-like ways.\n\nA tether is not a spherical object, and has significant extent. This means that as an extended object, it is not directly modelable as a point source, and this means that the center of mass and center of gravity are not usually colocated. Thus the inverse square law does not apply except at large distances, to the overall behaviour of a tether. Hence the orbits are not completely Keplerian, and in some cases they are actually chaotic.\n\nWith bolus designs, rotation of the cable interacting with the non linear gravity fields found in elliptical orbits can cause exchange of orbital angular momentum and rotation angular momentum. This can make prediction and modelling extremely complex.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8876835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8876835", "title": "The Nomadic Project", "text": "The Nomadic Project\n\nThe Nomadic Project is a conceptual art project, designed by visual artist, Kristin Abraham and musician, Alfonso Llamas. From November 13, 2005 to December 21, 2006 the artists traveled to all 50 states in the United States, the goal being to connect the country through art by experiencing as much in each state as possible in one week. In that time, Abraham painted an impression based on the land or her experiences, or a combination of both. Llamas communicated his experiences by composing music with an acoustic guitar and laptop. As the artists traveled, each state's painting was left in a neighboring state, at an art gallery, art center, or museum, while music was posted on the project's website. This process connected the country, by bringing inspiration from one state and leaving it in the next. By December 21, 2006 the artists had visited and placed a painting in all fifty states.\n\nLlamas and Abraham spent about a week in each state, with two weeks being set aside for Texas, California, and Alaska. They traveled in a Honda Element purchased specifically for the project. Llamas modified the vehicle with a storage unit, a refrigerator and a bed. They camped in National Parks, National Forests, and parking lots, spending a day or two in a hotel room each week for painting and creating.\n\nLlamas and Abraham met in Ft. Myers, Florida in early 2002, when Llamas became guitar player for the indie rock band, The Penny Arcade, which at the time, Abraham's sister was lead singer for the band. The two formed a friendship based on their love of music and art and eventually started dating. At this time the couple developed the initial concept for what would become \"The Nomadic Project\". The couple married in November 2003. Originally the project was designed as a personal journey combining their creative passions and desire to travel. The project took a new direction as the couple saw the impact that the 2004 Elections and Iraq War were having on the country. Llamas and Abraham have said it was then they decided to have a painting for each state and to connect the country through art. Llamas and Abraham funded the project solely through the sale of artwork and personal savings. The couple has credited husband and wife artists, Christo and Jeanne-Claude as inspiration for funding their project entirely themselves. In November 2005, three years after they first dreamed of \"The Nomadic Project\", they sold their home and possessions and set out from Ft. Myers, Florida.\n\nWhile traveling cross the country \"The Nomadic Project\" was greeted with mixed reactions. Most people applauded the duo's creativity and courage in such an ambitious undertaking, while some dismissed it as two unknown artists involved in an oddball project. For the most part, criticism was minimal and the project received extensive media coverage throughout the country. On December 20, 2006 in a radio interview with WORT in Madison, Wisconsin, the couple spoke of their desire to not only share their experiences with others, but to also inspire people to get out and see the country. They went further to say they felt the country is divided between religious, political, and racial lines, with the Iraq War being the biggest divider. The couple express their hope that through the project, people will be reminded that despite differences, all Americans can agree that they live in a very beautiful and unique country.\n\nOn October 17, 2007 a nationwide traveling exhibit, displaying all 50 paintings, music, video footage, and journal entries from the journey began. It started in Aiken, South Carolina at Aiken Center for the Arts.\n\nThe Providence Journal, \"'Nomadic Artists leave a painting in every state\", Bryan Rourke, December 21, 2006\n\nNew Hampshire Register, \"'Guilford Art Center lands a part in couple's dream Nomadic Project\", Donna Doherty, December 17, 2006\n\nAlexandria Times, \"'The Nomadic Project comes to Old Town\", Carla Branch, December 14, 2006\n\nFox 42 KPTM, \"'Two artists and fifty galleries connect the U.S. through art\", Community Correspondent, December 13, 2006\n\nArgus Leader, \"Nomadic couple heads to 50 states to create\", Jay Kirschenmann, Sunday, August 20, 2006\n\nTimes Record, \"Nomadic Project Comes To Town\", Pam Cloud, January 31, 2006\n\n"}
{"id": "26739944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26739944", "title": "Triad method", "text": "Triad method\n\nTriad is one of the earliest and simplest solutions to the spacecraft attitude determination problem, due to Harold Black. Black played a key role in the development of the guidance, navigation and control of the U.S. Navy's Transit satellite system at Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Laboratories. As evident from the literature, TRIAD represents the state of practice in spacecraft attitude determination, well before the advent of the Wahba's problem and its several optimal solutions. Given the knowledge of two vectors in the reference and body coordinates of a satellite, the TRIAD algorithm obtains the direction cosine matrix relating both frames. Covariance analysis for Black's classical solution was subsequently provided by Markley.\n\nWe consider the linearly independent reference vectors formula_1 and formula_2. Let formula_3 be the corresponding measured directions of the reference unit vectors as resolved in a body fixed frame of reference. Then they are related by the equations,\n\nfor formula_4, where formula_5 is a rotation matrix (sometimes also known as a proper orthogonal matrix, i.e., formula_6). formula_5 transforms vectors in the body fixed frame into the frame of the reference vectors. Among other properties, rotational matrices preserve the length of the vector they operate on. Note that the direction cosine matrix formula_5 also transforms the cross product vector, written as,\n\nTriad proposes an estimate of the direction cosine matrix formula_5 as a solution to the linear system equations given by\n\nwhere formula_10 have been used to separate different column vectors.\n\nThe solution presented above works well in the noise-free case. However, in practice, formula_11 are noisy and the orthogonality condition of the attitude matrix (or the direction cosine matrix) is not preserved by the above procedure. Triad incorporates the following elegant procedure to redress this problem. To this end, we define unit vectors\n\nand\n\nto be used in place of the first two columns of (). Their cross product is used as the third column in the linear system of equations obtaining a proper orthogonal matrix for the spacecraft attitude given by\n\nWhile the normalizations of Equations () - () are not necessary, they have been carried out to achieve a computational advantage in solving the linear system of equations in (). Thus an estimate of the spacecraft attitude is given by the proper orthogonal matrix as \n\nNote that computational efficiency has been achieved in this procedure by replacing the matrix inverse with a transpose. This is possible because the matrices involved in computing attitude are each composed of a triad of orthonormal basis vectors. \"TRIAD\" derives its name from this observation.\n\nIt is of consequence to note that the Triad method always produces a proper orthogonal matrix irrespective of the handedness of the reference and body vectors employed in the estimation process. This can be shown as follows.\nLet us re-write Eq. () in a matrix form given by\n\nwhere formula_12\nand \nformula_13\nNote that if the columns of formula_14 form a left handed triad, then the columns of formula_15 are also left handed because of the one-one correspondence between the vectors. This is because of the simple fact that, in Euclidean geometry, the angle between any two vectors remains invariant to coordinate transformations. Therefore, the determinant formula_16 is formula_17 or formula_18 depending on whether its columns are right or left - handed respectively (similarly, formula_19 ). Taking determinant on both sides of the relation in Eq. (), we conclude that \n\nThis is quite useful in practical applications since the analyst is always guaranteed a proper orthogonal matrix irrespective of the nature of the reference and measured vector quantities.\n\nTriad was used as an attitude determination technique to process the telemetry data from the Transit satellite system (used by the U.S. Navy for navigation). The principles of the Transit system gave rise to the global positioning system satellite constellation. In an application problem, the reference vectors are usually known directions (e.g., stars, Earth magnetic field, gravity vector, etc.). Body fixed vectors are the measured directions as observed by an on-board sensor (e.g., star tracker, magnetometer, etc.). With advances in micro-electronics, attitude determination algorithms such as Triad have found their place in a variety of devices (e.g., smart phones, cars, tablets, UAVs etc.) with a broad impact on the modern society.\n\n"}
{"id": "21988179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21988179", "title": "Univocity of being", "text": "Univocity of being\n\nUnivocity of being is the idea that words describing the properties of God mean the same thing as when they apply to people or things, even if God is vastly different in kind. It is associated with the doctrines of the Scholastic theologian John Duns Scotus.\n\nIn medieval disputes over the nature of God, many theologians and philosophers (such as Thomas Aquinas) held that when one says that \"God is good\" and that \"man is good\", man's goodness is only analogous to, i.e. similar to but distinct from, God's goodness. John Duns Scotus, while not denying the analogy of being a la St. Thomas, nonetheless holds to a univocal \"concept\" of being. It is important to note that Scotus does not believe in a “univocity of being”, but rather to a common concept of being that is proper to both God and man, though in two radically distinct modes: infinite in God, finite in man.cf. John Duns Scotus, 1265-1965 p. 250-262\n\nGilles Deleuze borrowed the doctrine of \"ontological univocity\" from Scotus. He claimed that being is univocal, i.e., that all of its senses are affirmed in one voice. Deleuze adapts the doctrine of univocity to claim that being is, univocally, difference. \"With univocity, however, it is not the differences which are and must be: it is being which is Difference, in the sense that it is said of difference. Moreover, it is not we who are univocal in a Being which is not; it is we and our individuality which remains equivocal in and for a univocal Being.\" \nDeleuze at once echoes and inverts Spinoza, who maintained that everything that exists is a modification of the one substance, God or Nature. He claims that it is the organizing principle of Spinoza's philosophy, despite the absence of the term from any of Spinoza's works. For Deleuze, there is no one substance, only an always-differentiating process, an origami cosmos, always folding, unfolding, refolding. Deleuze and Guattari summarize this ontology in the paradoxical formula \"pluralism = monism\".\n\n"}
{"id": "903481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=903481", "title": "Von Restorff effect", "text": "Von Restorff effect\n\nThe von Restorff effect, also known as the \"isolation effect\", predicts that when multiple homogeneous stimuli are presented, the stimulus that differs from the rest is more likely to be remembered. The theory was coined by German psychiatrist and pediatrician Hedwig von Restorff (1906–1962), who, in her 1933 study, found that when participants were presented with a list of categorically similar items with one distinctive, isolated item on the list, memory for the item was improved.\n\nThe study utilized the isolation paradigm, which refers to a distinctive feature of an item in a list that differs from the others by way of dimension. Such distinctiveness, leading to the von Restorff effect, can be generated from changing the meaningfulness or physical nature of the stimulus in some way, such as in size, shape, color, spacing and underlining.\n\nFor example, if a person examines a shopping list with one item highlighted in bright green, he or she will be more likely to remember the highlighted item than any of the others. Additionally, in the following list of words – desk, chair, bed, table, chipmunk, dresser, stool, couch – chipmunk will be remembered the most as it stands out against the other words in its meaning.\n\nThere are different theories proposed to explain the increased performance of isolated items. The total-time hypothesis suggests that isolated items are rehearsed for a longer time in working memory compared to non-isolated items. Another approach offers that subjects could consider the isolated items to be in their own special category in a free-recall task, making them easier to recollect. A separate explanation is based upon the analysis of the deep processing of similarities and differences among the items. \nDebate surrounds whether perceptual salience and differential attention are necessary to produce this effect. Modern theory holds that the contextual incongruity of the isolate is what leads to the differential attention to this item. Based on this assumption, an isolation effect would not be expected if the isolated item were presented prior to some consistent context, a theory that goes against von Restorff's findings.\n\nEmpirical data has shown a strong relationship between the von Restorff effect and measures of event-related potential in the brain. Specifically, evidence has shown that exposure to novel or isolated items on a list for free recall generates an ERP with a larger amplitude and this amplitude in turn predicts a higher likelihood of future recall and faster recognition of the items.\n\nThere have been many studies that demonstrate and confirm the von Restorff effect in children and young adults. Another study found that college-aged students performed better when trying to remember an outstanding item in a list during an immediate memory-task whereas elderly individuals did not remember it well, suggesting a difference in processing strategies between the age groups.\n\nIn yet another study, although a significant von Restorff effect was produced amongst both age groups when manipulating font color, it was found to be smaller in older adults than younger adults. This too indicates that older people display lesser benefits for distinctive information compared to younger people.\n\n"}
{"id": "25185692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25185692", "title": "World disclosure", "text": "World disclosure\n\nWorld disclosure (, literally \"development, comprehension\") refers to how things become intelligible and meaningfully relevant to human beings, by virtue of being part of an ontological \"world\" – i.e., a pre-interpreted and holistically structured background of meaning. This understanding is said to be first disclosed to human beings through their practical day-to-day encounters with others, with things in the world, and through language.\n\nThe phenomenon was described by the German philosopher Martin Heidegger in his landmark book \"Being and Time.\" It has also been discussed by philosophers such as John Dewey, Jürgen Habermas, Nikolas Kompridis and Charles Taylor. \n\nSome philosophers, such as Ian Hacking and Nikolas Kompridis, have also described how this ontological understanding can be \"re-disclosed\" in various ways (including through innovative forms of philosophical argument).\n\nThe idea of disclosure supposes that the meaning of a word or thing depends upon the context in which we encounter it, including the way of life of which it is a part. For example, a table is part of a context with other things that give it its sense or purpose – e.g. chairs, food, a teapot, pencils, books – and we first learn about it through our everyday experience of it in particular contexts. Its meaning is \"given\" to us by virtue of its connection to various activities (e.g. writing, eating, conversation), and by qualities (e.g. conviviality) that give it value in relation to such activities. These constitute part of its \"conditions of intelligibility.\"\n\nThe implication is that we are always already \"thrown\" into these conditions, that is, thrown into a prior understanding of the things which we encounter on a daily basis – an understanding that is already somewhat meaningful and coherent. However, our understanding cannot be made \"fully\" conscious or knowable at one time, since this background understanding isn't itself an object:\n\nAccording to Nikolas Kompridis, the initial disclosure of an ontological world is said to be \"pre-reflective\" or first-order disclosure. However, this so-called first-order disclosure is not fixed, as it can vary across historical time and cultural space. As well, Kompridis has described a kind of second-order or \"reflective disclosure\". Whereas first-order disclosure involves an implicit, unconscious and largely passive relation to meaning, reflective disclosure is an explicit \"re-working\" of meaning and the terms used to make sense of ourselves and the world, through the \"refocusing\" or \"de-centering\" of our understanding. Reflective disclosure is thus a way of acting back upon conditions of intelligibility, in order to clarify or reshape our background understanding. Because of this, reflective disclosure also affects conditions of \"possibility\" by impacting on such basic questions as \"what counts as a thing, what counts as true/false, and what it makes sense to do.\"\n\nWhile some philosophers, notably Jürgen Habermas and Richard Rorty, claim that disclosure is an aesthetic phenomenon (supposedly, neither rational nor cognitive, and therefore not philosophical), disclosive arguments have been employed in many contexts that are not primarily considered literary or \"aesthetic,\" and some philosophers have argued for the importance of disclosure's (not to mention, aesthetics') place in human reason, most notably Nikolas Kompridis and Charles Taylor.\n\nWorld-disclosing arguments are a family of philosophical argument described by Nikolas Kompridis in his book \"Critique and Disclosure\". According to Kompridis, these arguments have distinctive forms, sometimes called \"styles of reasoning\", that start with a disclosive approach instead of, or in addition to methods that are deductive, inductive, etc. According to disclosure theorists, these forms of argument attempt to reveal features of a wider ontological or cultural-linguistic understanding (or \"world,\" in a specifically ontological sense), in order to clarify or transform the background of meaning and \"logical space\" on which an argument implicitly depends. A major example of this type of argument is said to be that of immanent critique, although it is not the only kind.\n\nIn deductive arguments, the \"test\" of the argument's success are said to be its formal validity and soundness. However, in a world-disclosing argument, the primary criterion for success is the solution of a problem that could not be successfully dealt with under some previous understanding or paradigm, for example, after an epistemological crisis (see Paradigm shift). It is therefore said to be \"possibility disclosing\" rather than \"truth-preserving\" or \"truth-tracking.\" The \"claim\" made by such an argument is that of a new insight, resulting from the adoption of a new stance or perspective that reveals, or \"discloses\" a new possibility for thinking and acting.\n\nNikolas Kompridis has described two kinds of fallibilism in this regard. The first consists in being open to new evidence that could disprove some previously held position or belief (the taken-for-granted position of the observer in normal science). The second refers to the consciousness of \"the degree to which our interpretations, valuations, our practices, and traditions are temporally indexed\" and subject to historical change. This \"time-responsive\" (as opposed to \"evidence-responsive\") fallibilism consists in an \"expectant\" openness to some future possibility. According to Kompridis, world-disclosing arguments are fallible in both senses of the word.\n\nMajor examples of world disclosing arguments in philosophy are said to include:\n\n\nOther modern philosophers who are said to employ world-disclosing arguments include Hans-Georg Gadamer, George Herbert Mead and Maurice Merleau-Ponty.\n\n"}
