{"id": "33778144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33778144", "title": "3S Understanding", "text": "3S Understanding\n\n3S Understanding is a curriculum structure that was created by James G. Henderson. 3S Understanding is a mixture of three components that can be diagrammed as a triangle. The three Ss are Subject Matter, Self-learning, and Social Learning.\n\nHenderson and Gornik’s \"Reflective Teaching: Professional Artistry Through Inquiry\" examines 3S understanding and teaching for democratic living. It goes in depth about subject learning, self-learning, and social learning. Henderson writes the book with the ideas and also presents several real life examples. It goes through teacher reflection and how teachers should be constantly refining their practice.\n\nThe manual on 3S Understanding and how to apply it to a curriculum is \"Transformative Curriculum Leadership\" by Henderson. It will be one of the most important documents in the study. Henderson outlines what 3S Understanding is, what it is based on, and how to implement it. The author discusses how to design and plan lessons, how to teach the lessons, evaluation of the lessons, and organization. Henderson even goes on to discuss how the community and school can get involved and help expand and support this form of curriculum.\n\n\"Understanding by Design\" by Wiggins and McTighe takes on the heavy task of getting students to not merely gain factual knowledge but to understand what they are learning. The authors talk about using backward design to focus on the goals and then determine what the students need to do to show they have achieved the goals. Wiggins and McTighe describe the goal of backward design as, \"lessons, unite, and courses should be logically inferred from the results sought, not derived from the methods, books, and activities with which we are most comfortable\". They also delve into the idea of being able to use information and apply it to different situations. Helping the students to understand how they are learning and their metacognitive ability is integral in 3S understanding. The self aspect of 3S understanding desires for the student to see themselves as a lifelong learner. Wiggins and McTighe cover the subject matter and social aspects of 3S understanding.\n\nThe 21st Century Skills and 21st Century Themes are becoming more prevalent in education as time goes on. The connection 21st Century skills have with 3S understanding is that sense of being a self-learner. Students need to see themselves as constantly learning through life as they develop skills in a fast changing world. The authors report:\nAchieving education’s goals in our time is shaped by the increasingly powerful technologies we have for communicating, collaborating, and learning. And learning assumes a central role throughout life.\n\nThe subject is the base curriculum and standards that are used by the school, state, and nation. They are inherent in every curriculum but James Henderson goes further in describing what he sees as subject. He says, “Teaching for democratic living requires the use of thinking-centered, performance-based activities\". Teaching subject matter is important but it needs to focus on student thinking and assessment. Henderson gives many forms of performance-based learning: Collaborative learning, peer teaching, project-based learning, understanding performances, infusion of critical and creative thinking, and authentic problems that have real-world significance. Henderson also discusses the importance of constructivist learning and how drawing from past experiences and applying it to the present is important. The students will gain more meaning from the material if it has some meaning to them.\n\nThe second S is for Self-Learning and it represents the students’ view of themselves as lifelong learners. It is important for students to see themselves as constantly learning from others and from themselves. Everything that a student experiences, every person that they talk to, and everything they do impacts their beliefs and knowledge. If a teacher can help a student to realize that then they can help the student to grow to be active participants in a democratic society. Henderson also talks about social-emotional growth and how it can be accomplished by fostering, “caring and supportive learning environments that invite active student participation in classroom and school management activities”. It is important for students to make good choices and to know how to express emotion.\n\nThe third S stands for Social Learning which gives the student understanding of their society. It helps them think about “equity, diversity, and civility issues”. Equity has to do with the equality of people and the ideas of fair and just. Henderson suggests that stereotypes are squashed at an early age and that grading should encourage all students. Diversity should celebrate human differences and diversity should be seen as something good. Civility focuses on the right to have different opinions and to listen to everyone’s opinion even if it is different.\n\n3S Understanding is built upon the curriculum wisdom paradigm which is an expansion of the constructivist best practice paradigm. The paradigm that Henderson is looking to get away from is the standardized management paradigm. He compares the two by saying standardized management’s problem solving cycle is, “goal-setting, decision-making, and reflecting activities aligned to high-stakes standardized tests” while curriculum wisdom’s is “goal-setting, decision-making, and reflecting activities that facilitate student’s subject matter meaning making in a context of active democratic living”. The difference is the last part of each explanation. One focuses on the high-stakes standardized tests while the other focuses on taking what the student is learning and applying it to themselves and the society they live in.\n\nHenderson and Kessen’s Curriculum Wisdom book is about one of the three educational paradigms that Henderson says are inherent in one another; they are the standardized management paradigm, the constructivist best practice paradigm, and the curriculum wisdom paradigm. Curriculum wisdom has to do with expanding upon the subject matter the student is learning. The curriculum wisdom paradigm is a “concise way to convey the subtle and complex challenges of approaching curriculum work as envisioning and enacting a good educational journey”. It is putting the subject matter in context with how it is meaningful to their lives. In essence the argument is that people need to know the subject matter, how to use it in their lives, and how to be a good member of society.\n\nThe paradigms are revisited when Henderson talks about standards. Standards are an important topic in education and seeing the Transformative Standards he puts forth shows them in a new light. Received standards stress the importance of “standardized factual knowledge and skills, knowledge and skills that are testable with a large population, and criteria based on a predetermined metric based on counting”. These standards are not based on the students or what they have learned. Henderson’s Transformative Standards are based on student understanding and wisdom. Taking what the student knows of the subject and allowing them to show their understanding through demonstration and performances.\n\nImportant in creating a curriculum with 3S understanding is to include Henderson’s Six Facets of Understanding. Wisdom is having knowledge and knowing how to apply it. Henderson gives ways to assess if a student understands and shows wisdom on a topic. He says a student who really understands, “can explain, can interpret, can apply, sees in perspective, demonstrates empathy, and reveals self-knowledge”. Many of these ways to see if a student understands are not normally used in the classroom. The reason is because 3S understanding requires more of the student while at the same time gives them more. It may seem like more work for the student but actually the student is connecting the work to themselves and their surroundings. It will stimulate students more and seeing themselves as lifelong learners will motivate them to acquire knowledge and wisdom.\n\nIntegrated curricula like teaching for 3S understanding are becoming more popular all around the world. The article \"Japan's National Curriculum Reforms: Focus on Integrated Curriculum\" was an excellent source of information on curriculum infusion. It was geared toward helping to implement the integration into school systems. Japan wanted their children to grow up to be well-balanced adults. This article provided excellent insight into why the basic standards are not enough anymore. Arani says:\nOn this basis, the optional courses increase; the teacher’s role changes; and the school should teach the students how to think, decide, and organize their thoughts, as well as how to gain the skills for learning, research, and collection and analysis of data. The school should also teach the students how to learn while being in contact with their surroundings, and how to relate all the learning with the society, and the daily life. \nChildren need to learn to think more independently. They need to be able to understand what is happening around them in their environment. The rich culture all around them needs to be coupled with the problems and issues around them as well. Japan has realized and acted on the realization that basic knowledge base curriculum does not work anymore. The world is a changing place and teachers need to integrate the world into their students’ educations. It relates to the self and social learning aspects of 3S understanding that help set it apart. This is an excellent example of the democratic self and social understanding discussed by Henderson.\n\nThe Curriculum Infusion of Real Life Issues Model is about taking issues that students face in their everyday lives and addressing them. There are many issues that students can face as they grow into adults. Ignoring them in the classroom is not the right way to go about producing responsible adults. The authors include issues such as bullying, drugs and alcohol, smoking, violence, and sexually transmitted diseases. It would be productive if teachers can acknowledge and support students when they face problems like these. Students and teachers can develop more of an interpersonal bond and even help their communities grow. The authors describe the curriculum infusion, “It makes classes more relevant to students by addressing their real world concerns and connects teachers more closely to the students and communities where they work.\" Included in the authors' research are topics such as diversity, environment, and prevention. This is another example of self and social understanding being used in conjunction with subject matter. It shows that there is more to students’ lives than simply subject matter.\n\nThe article “More Like Real Life: Motivational Methods of Teaching in Upper Secondary School” is helpful in understanding how teachers and students interact. It is a Swedish article but is important to understand the relationship between teacher and student for real life inclusion methods. The authors write, “Both the school and the working force of teachers need a new conception of what knowledge is Carlgren would like to see a new knowledge movement based on a way of viewing knowledge that ‘instead of knowledge being seen as a substance, is seen as a relationship between humanity and the world.’” This shows how important it is for students to see that they are a part of the world. They need to take what they know and connect it to their surroundings. People are a part of something bigger than themselves and need to understand the relationship they have with the world. The article also discusses a study done at a high school where everyone was from a different place. The high school recruited students from everywhere. It was the perfect place to have a study on school and its effect on a student’s culture. The study found that students created a culture and working community of their own. They were able to understand each other and work together in their school activities. After school activities played an important role in the study. It gave the student more of a bond between each other and allowed the teachers to get involved in their lives. It was perfect to help understand how integrating real life issues could help students, parents, the community, and teachers in a school system. This article explores how schools have an effect on students and how students and teachers have an effect on each other. Social studies is very involved with social and self-understanding and the 3S Curriculum model would fit easily and with great results.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13668170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13668170", "title": "Académie des Beaux-Arts (Kinshasa)", "text": "Académie des Beaux-Arts (Kinshasa)\n\nThe Académie des Beaux-Arts (ABA) is a school in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo. The school is devoted to teaching the arts, and was founded in 1943 as the \"École Saint-Luc à Gombe Matadi\" by Belgian catholic missionary Marc Wallenda. In 1949 the school moved to present-day Kinshasa and in 1957 it was renamed as the Académie des Beaux-Arts. During the education reforms of 1981 the school was integrated into the national technical university system.\n\nThe school offers programs in metalworking, interior decorating, visual communications, sculpture, painting, et cetera.\n"}
{"id": "34014882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34014882", "title": "Adult education in Nazi Germany", "text": "Adult education in Nazi Germany\n\nAdult education () in Nazi Germany was institutional continuing education for persons who had completed their schooling. After the synchronization of university extension programs (Volkshochschulen) and their municipal or private sponsors, the German Labor Front (DAF) made its influence felt in two ways. Within its National Socialist Strength Through Joy organization, it founded the German Public Instruction Agency (Deutsche Volksbildungswerk; DVW) in 1935. Moreover, after 1933 it used the Office for Vocational Education and Business Management to influence commercial education. The German Institute for National Socialist Technical Vocational Training (Dinta) gave rise to the German Vocational Education Agency (Deutsches Berufserziehungswerk), which organized \"practice groups\" (\"Übungsgemeinschaften\") that by 1938 had 2 million participants; its workplace programs involved another 1.3 million. These operations should be distinguished from the \"community schooling\" (\"Gemeinschaftsschulung\") of employers, foremen, and workers through courses in the German Labor Front's Reich schools.\n\nAbove all, adult education had functions not provided by the mass organizations of National Socialism, with their \"ideological orientation and selection\" and their military training. The adult education offerings had more to do with the economic predicament and the demand for continuing education and ideological orientation than with political schooling. During the war, new areas of activity arose through the combining of work with vocational or general-educational correspondence courses, as well as through continuing education for persons with war-related disabilities. In 1943, the DVW established a night school (\"Abendoberschule\") in Munich. It supported social and cultural courses given by so-called guardians of public instruction (\"Volksbildungswarte\") in the workplaces.\n\nThe 300 offices for public instruction also attempted to mobilize the rural population for culture. Their program of instruction was largely based on a model curriculum created in 1939 by Reich and \"Gau\" work groups for adult education. Instead of consolidation of adult education taking place through Reich legislation, a goal aimed at in 1933, the DVW gained dominance through the financial resources made available from DAF dues; in 1943 it was upgraded to a leadership office (Führungsamt) in the DAF. Adult education should not be underestimated as an integrating element, even if its educational offerings primarily served the collective increase of power.\n\n"}
{"id": "23595787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23595787", "title": "BMU Lebanese French University", "text": "BMU Lebanese French University\n\nThe Lebanese French University LFU Lebanese French University (LFU) is a private university. It was licensed in September 2007 by the Kurdistan Regional Government - Erbil (decree 2342).\nIt operates on its 50,000 square meters Erbil campus, 100 meter Street, Near Mosul Road, Nasr Roundabout. \n\nThe university is also building on its campus a complex for students' accommodation which will be ready for September 2015.\nLFU offers undergraduate degrees in Law, Business Administration, Accounting and Finance, Information Technology, English Language, French Language, Legal Administration, General Education, Marketing, Diplomacy and International Relations and Fin Arts. It also offers postgraduate degrees in Business Administration, Accounting and Finance and Information Technology.\nLFU is an associate member of the Association of Arab Universities Union (AAU).\n\n"}
{"id": "3509246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3509246", "title": "Bachelor of Theology", "text": "Bachelor of Theology\n\nThe Bachelor of Theology degree (BTh, ThB, or BTheol) is a three- to five-year undergraduate degree in theological disciplines. Candidates for this degree typically must complete course work in Greek or Hebrew, as well as systematic theology, biblical theology, ethics, homiletics, hermeneutics and Christian ministry. It does not require a thesis but is often a year longer than a Bachelor of Religious Education or Bachelor of Arts. In some denominations, notably the Church of England, it is considered sufficient for formal ordination.\n\nIn some schools, the BTh is a three-year degree for mature students pursuing ordination, who do not hold a degree and for whom the requirement of a Master of Divinity has been waived.\n\n"}
{"id": "34866410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34866410", "title": "Barbara Goette", "text": "Barbara Goette\n\nBarbara Goette (26 July 1908 – 23 October 1997) was an academic who lived in Germany and then Australia. She was the private secretary of Ludwig Roselius from 1935 to 1943 who created the Böttcherstraße, Café HAG and financed Focke-Wulf.\n\nBarbara matriculated in Kassel in 1928 and began studying mathematics, physics and philosophy at Freiburg University and then Kiel where she took her state examinations in 1934/35. She met Dr Ludwig Roselius through the marriage of her brother to his youngest daughter and he suggested she work for the concern. Barbara became his companion, carer, confidante and collaborator.\n\nOn 18/9/1936 during a meeting in Berlin, the RLM recommended reconstruction of Focke-Wulf with 50% going to the Reich (state) and 50% to a large electronics concern.\n\nA short time later the Roselius concern became majority shareholder with 46% and Lorenz (ITT) secured 27.8%. The aircraft company was reconstituted as Focke-Wulf Flugzeugbau GmbH. Barbara was instrumental in assisting with this and the Böttcherstrasse was reclassified as 'degenerate art'.\n\nAfter Dr Roselius died in May 1943 she lectured in English at the Humboldt Hochschule in Berlin until the premises were demolished during a bombing raid. In 1944 she started studying for her Ph.D. in philosophy at Kiel where she met Dr J.P. Leidig and they married in February 1945. Shortly after the war she acted as an interpreter for the military police in Gunzenhausen, Bavaria.\n\nIn 1950 the family settled in Adelaide, Australia. Dr Leidig died in 1957 and Barbara was left with two sons. She never remarried and taught mathematics at Woodlands for 23 years. One year she had 4 out of the top 10 students in South Australia in her class and she received a congratulatory phone call from the Adelaide University Mathematics Department. She also worked as mathematics teacher until she was 81 at the Muirden College matriculation centre.\n\nA comprehensive posthumous interview by the Australian Our Time Channel 44 program (episode 188) on the life of Barbara Goette went Australia wide in 2015 and is available for viewing as referenced below.\n\nWhile still employed by the Roselius concern, Barbara wrote many articles on Dr Roselius including, 'Ludwig Roselius creates the Böttcherstraße' and 'Politics and Propaganda'. These were to be published by the Angelsachsen-Verlag in better times to come. An unpublished essay 'Ludwig the Philosopher' appears in the book that her son Ludwig wrote with Kevin Lower as researcher and Karen Collins as main editor. This book is a biography dealing mainly with Barbara's life in Germany during the Third Reich.\nIn 1944 Barbara risked her life by writing exactly the things that had infuriated Hitler in 1936 when he had attacked Dr Roselius and the Böttcherstrasse at the September Nuremberg Party Rally. This ten page essay was approved in September 1944 and was finally published by the Bremen Yearbook in 1951 and is included in the reference section. The controversial aspects were\nIt was late 1935 when the SS newspaper 'Das Schwarze Korps' launched a vitriolic attack on Ludwig Roselius' Böttcherstrasse.\n\nIn a film version, based on the biographical book Bombshell (), Barbara Götte and her boss Ludwig Roselius hatch out a plot to blow up Hitler's Focke-Wulf Fw 200 while he was flying back to Germany from Smolensk in early 1943. The bomb fails to ignite and the Gestapo suspect that Roselius is involved. On the evening of 15/5/1943 in the Hotel Kaiserhof (Berlin) there is a violent confrontation between Hitler and Roselius - Barbara later returns from a ball to find Roselius dead.\n"}
{"id": "24879544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24879544", "title": "Blue Velvet (digital project)", "text": "Blue Velvet (digital project)\n\nBlue Velvet is an online digital history project about the city of New Orleans both before and after Hurricane Katrina.\nThe project was published in the fifth issue of \"Vectors Journal of Culture and Technology in a Dynamic Vernacular\", entitled \"Difference.\" The full title of the project is \"Blue Velvet: Redressing New Orleans in Katrina's Wake.\"\n\nBlue Velvet was created through the collaboration of David Theo Goldberg, Director of the University of California Humanities Research Institute (UCHRI), and a graduate research assistant, Stefka Hristova. These two were assisted in the implementation of the site by the digital artist and designer Erik Loyer, currently creative director of the journal.\n\nBlue Velvet was conceived as a multimedia presentation of a journal article which Goldberg had previously published, \"Deva-stating Disasters: Race in the Shadow(s) of New Orleans\" and which had been noticed by Tara McPherson, one of the founding editors of Vectors. From the first meeting, the group became aware that \"the writing had to be envisaged in a more creative and experimental form,\" both as a result of the kinds of material they planned to use and the architecture of the site. \n\nThe design of the site was the result of \"intense weekly conversations over something like a year\" and includes images, text, video, and sound files. The project is set to the composition \"Apparition,\" written by Liu Sola.\n\nThe content of the project is available through two different presentations. The first presentation, the main project , is an interactive, linear presentation of text organized in the form of 24 \"arguments.\" The second presentation is an interactive index which allows the reader to navigate the text of the project independently. The project examines the effect of the hurricane on the city, and \"underscores...that the tragic events that unfolded in New Orleans and along the Gulf Coast were possible precisely because of years of neoliberal policies that underwrote the necessary conditions for such devastation in the first place.\"\n\nThe reader progresses through the project argument by argument by clicking on key phrases associated with each argument. This gives the reader access to the maps, images, graphs, videos and audio files as well as the text of each argument. The arguments and key phrases composing Blue Velvet are: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52592808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52592808", "title": "Cartilage conduction", "text": "Cartilage conduction\n\nCartilage conduction is a pathway in which sound signals are transmitted to the inner ear. This pathway is distinct from conventional sound pathways such as air or bone. Therefore, cartilage conduction it referred to as the third auditory pathway.\n\nSince approximately 450 years ago, two pathways have been acknowledged for transmitting sound to the inner ear; one is air conduction and the other is bone conduction. In 2004, Hiroshi Hosoi, a professor at Nara Medical University, discovered the phenomenon of cartilage vibration in the inner ear. By attaching a vibrator to aural cartilage, sound was found be transmitted into the inner ear well. He proposed the novel concept that cartilage has a unique characteristic capable of transmitting sound. Because sound transmission via pathways that use air or bone are respectively called air conduction and bone conduction, the new pathway is referred to as cartilage conduction. This unique pathway has attracted the attention of several researchers and companies such that some hearing aid prototypes using cartilage conduction have been tested for use in smartphone and earphone.\n\nOne can hear a leathery sound when cleaning one’s ear canal using a cotton-tipped swab. This is an example of sound transmitted via cartilage conduction. In cartilage conduction, sound (vibration) energy stimulates the cartilages of the external auditory canal and induces air vibration. This air vibration can be then transmitted into the inner ear via the eardrum and middle ear, which in turn activates the cochlear nerve. Air vibration created from cartilage conduction is combined with sound from air conduction at the ear canal, and thus an amplified sound is perceived. This same phenomenon can be experienced when a telephone receiver is pressed against one’s ear when it is difficult to hear the person on the other end of the call.\n\n1) Hearing aid\n\nCartilage conduction can be particularly useful for patients with disorders of the outer ear, including aural atresia, where conventional air conduction hearing aids cannot be used. The basic premise of cartilage conduction hearing aids is that cartilage located outside the ear canal is vibrated, such that the vibration can be transmitted despite the presence of any outer ear disorders. Because hearing contributes to language development, the practical availability of cartilage conduction hearing aids would be beneficial to children who suffer from disorders of the outer ear. Currently, a cartilage conduction hearing aid is being developed by RION CO., LTD.\n\n2) Smartphone/Cell phone\n\nRecently, a smartphone prototype using the benefits of cartilage conduction has been manufactured by ROHM Co., Ltd. This type of the smartphone provides clearer sound compared with conventional phones, even under noisy circumstances. Furthermore, the sound pressure level can be easily modified by adjusting the physical pressure level of the smartphone pressed against the outer ear. Importantly, the cartilage vibration, which is a sound source, can be heard only by oneself but not by others because sound from cartilage vibration cannot be leaked outside. This makes talking in public easy. In addition, the smartphone’s surface can be kept clean because one’s face or ear does not directly contact the smartphone’s surface. The cartilage conduction phone can also be used simultaneously with conventional air conduction hearing aids, which is good news for hearing-impaired people.\n\n3) Earphone\n\nThe ear canal is not physically occluded by an earphone that operates via cartilage conduction. As such, this type of earphone allows one to hear alarm signals. Similar to the cartilage conduction smartphones, no sound is leaked from this type of earphone. Prototypes of such earphones have been manufactured by ROHM Co, Ltd.\n\n4) Robot\n\nCartilage conduction has been considered for communicating with robots. Currently, loudspeaker systems are used to convey sounds produced by robots. However, such loudspeakers generate loud noises in a room filled with many robots that simultaneously emit speech sounds. Therefore, a man-to-man communication system is needed to overcome this problem. Cartilage conduction can realize better communication than loudspeaker systems.\n\nIt was initially thought that cartilage conduction was a type of bone conduction. However, several studies demonstrated that the mechanisms of cartilage conduction differ from that of bone conduction. Bone conduction is attributed to bone vibration at the skull, which is transmitted to the inner ear. In contrast, cartilage conduction is accounted for by sound (vibration) energy stimulating the cartilage at the external auditory canal to create sonic waves in the ear canal. Such sonic wave energy passes through the eardrum and the middle ear before finally activating the auditory nerve. These different mechanisms would explain the following observed differences between cartilage and bone pathways:\n\n1. A variety of sound pressure levels can be created by contact pressure in cartilage conduction compared with that in bone conduction.\n\n2. A sound in cartilage conduction is more stereophonic than that in bone conduction.\n\n3. Frequency characteristics are different between cartilage and bone conduction.\n"}
{"id": "35581435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35581435", "title": "Chubb Fellowship", "text": "Chubb Fellowship\n\nThe Chubb Fellowship is a fellowship based and administered through Timothy Dwight College, one of Yale University's twelve residential colleges, and is one of Yale's highest honors for a visiting lecturer. In 1936, Hendon Chubb established a fund for “…the encouragement and aid of students interested in government and public affairs.” In 1949, Chubb and the Master of Timothy Dwight College collaborated to create a visiting fellowship program as the principal means to achieve this goal.\n\nThere have been many nationally and internationally distinguished personalities who have been named as Chubb Fellows. They include many heads of state, other national and international political leaders, Nobel and Pulitzer prize winners, and a wide range of highly accomplished individuals in business, non-profit management and the arts. Following is the list.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30497895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30497895", "title": "Code for America", "text": "Code for America\n\nCode for America is a non-partisan, non-political 501(c)(3) organization founded in 2009 to address the widening gap between the public and private sectors in their effective use of technology and design. According to its website, the organization works with residents and governments in solving community problems. The organization began by enlisting technology and design professionals to work with city governments in the United States in order to build open-source applications and promote openness, participation, and efficiency in government, and has grown into a cross-sector network of practitioners of civic innovation and a platform for \"civic hacking\".\n\nThrough five programs, Code for America helps government work more like the Internet. \n\nThe \"Washington Post\" described Code for America as \"the technology world's equivalent of the Peace Corps or Teach for America\". The article goes on to say, \"They bring fresh blood to the solution process, deliver agile coding and software development skills, and frequently offer new perspectives on the latest technology—something that is often sorely lacking from municipal government IT programs. This is a win-win for cities that need help and for technologists that want to give back and contribute to lower government costs and the delivery of improved government service.\"\n\nThe \"New York Times\" described Code for America as \"a new nonprofit project... which aims to import the efficiency of the Web into government infrastructures\" and \"[tries] to make working in government fun and creative\".\n\nIn 2009, the founder Jennifer Pahlka was working with O'Reilly Media at the Gov 2.0 Summit in Washington, DC. A conversation with Andrew Greenhill, the Mayor's Chief of Staff of the City of Tucson, sparked the initial idea for Code for America, when he said \"You need to pay attention to the local level, because cities are in major crisis. Revenues are down, costs are up—if we don't change how cities work, they're going to fail.\" The two began discussing plans for a program that eventually became Code for America, \"a one-year fellowship recruiting developers to work for city government\". With support from web entrepreneur Leonard Lin, Tim O'Reilly of O'Reilly Media, and technologist Clay A. Johnson, among others, the organization was launched in September 2009.\n\nCode for America connects city governments and web professionals through the Code for America Fellowship program.\n\nThe first year of the fellowship program began in January 2011. Twenty fellows were selected from 360 applicants, resulting in a 5.6% acceptance rate. Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, DC, and Seattle were the four cities selected to participate in the 2011 program.\n\nOn January 4, 2012 Code for America began its second year fellowship program with 26 fellows and eight cities: Austin, Chicago, Detroit, Honolulu, Macon, New Orleans, Philadelphia, and Santa Cruz.\n\nThe 2016 Code for America fellowship program is running in partnership with six cities: Kansas City, Missouri; Long Beach, California; New Orleans, Louisiana; New York City, New York; Salt Lake County, Utah; and Seattle, Washington.\n\nThe inaugural 2011 fellowship program launched four projects in Boston, Seattle, Philadelphia, and Washington, DC. Each city partners with a team of five web programmers or designers selected for the fellowship. Over a period of 11 months, the fellows and city government collaborate to develop a web application to solve a civic problem identified by the city in their project proposals. The completed software applications are released as open-source for any city government to use or adapt.\n\nThe Civic Commons project focuses on reducing public IT costs by helping government entities share code and best practices. It was launched in September 2010 after the Washington, DC project fell through due to a change in administration. Code for America Commons, as it is now called, is a coordinated effort between Code for America, OpenPlans, and the District of Columbia's Office of the Chief Technology Officer (OCTO). In March 2011, Code for America Commons helped make the Federal IT dashboard freely available to all levels of government, thereby providing local governments with tools to monitor project effectiveness and evaluate the allocation of resources.\n\nIn December 2011 Code for America announced the receipt of a $1.5 million grant from Google and the formation of two new programs: Accelerator and Brigade. The Code for America Brigades are local groups of volunteers who build civic apps on open data in cities around the world.\n\nIn 2011, CFA coders developed an \"Adopt a Hydrant\" website, so that volunteers in Boston can sign up to shovel out fire hydrants after storms. The system has also been implemented in Providence, Rhode Island, Anchorage, Alaska, and Chicago. Honolulu has created a similar website, \"Adopt-A-Siren\", for its tsunami sirens.\n\nIn 2012, fellows at Code for America created Honolulu Answers, a web application that provides simple, to-the-point answers to citizens' questions. The web application was populated with citizen input at a write-a-thon, which became a unique model for civic engagement. Both Honolulu Answers and the write-a-thon model have since been redeployed in a dozen cities around the world, including as Oakland Answers and Durban Answers.\n\nIn 2015, fellows at Code for America designed GetCalFresh.org, to streamline the CalFresh application process. In California, 40% of people who are eligible for CalFresh, the state's Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, were not receiving benefits. California has the second lowest participation rate in the country. Although an online application is available in California, it can take up to an hour to complete, is more than 50 web pages long, and filled with over a hundred questions. It also doesn't work on mobile devices, despite the fact that most low-income people rely on smartphones for access to the Internet. GetCalFresh takes an average time of 11 minutes to complete and, as of 2016, is being used by 9 counties to help over 1,000 people. In addition, it leverages mobile phone access among applicants to encourage questions and answers, all over text. Current efforts are focused on scaling this solution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "948643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=948643", "title": "Commencement speech", "text": "Commencement speech\n\nA commencement speech or commencement address is a speech given to graduating students, generally at a university, generally in the United States, although the term is also used for secondary education institutions.\n\nThe \"commencement\" is a ceremony in which degrees or diplomas are conferred upon graduating students. A commencement speech is typically given by a notable figure in the community, during the \"commencement exercise\". The person giving such a speech is known as a commencement speaker. Very commonly, colleges or universities will invite politicians, important citizens, or other noted speakers to come and address the graduating class.\n\nA commencement speech is less bound by the structure found in other forms of public address, like eulogies or wedding speeches. The speaker accordingly enjoys a unique freedom to express him or herself. Executive speechwriter Anthony Trendl writes\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49967864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49967864", "title": "Factory model school", "text": "Factory model school\n\n\"Factory model schools\", \"factory model education\", or \"industrial era schools\" are terms used to describe educational organization and facilities. The terms emerged in the mid to late-20th century as a rhetorical device used by speakers and writers advocating for a change to the American public education system. Generally speaking when people use one of the terms, they are referencing characteristics of European education that emerged in the late 18th Century and then in North America in the mid-19th century that include top-down management, standardization, outcomes designed to meet societal needs, age-based classrooms, efficiency, and a focus on producing results. The phrase is typically used in the context of discussing what the author identifies as negative aspects of public (or government-funded) school. For example, the factory model of schools are \"designed to create docile subjects and factory workers\". It is also used to suggest the structure and look of American schools hasn't changed in 100 years as Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos has in tweets and speeches. Educational historians such as Jack Schneider and Sherman Dorn describe the phrase as misleading and an inaccurate representation of the development of American public education.\n\nThe first public use of the term \"factory model schools\" to describe K-12 education was by Dr. Howard Lamb in a speech in September, 1972. \"The Greenville News\" reported: \"The educational institutions are producing teachers for the 1920 factory model schools, Lamb said.\" Previously, Theresa Jablonski, in a 1970 editorial in the \"News Herald\" (Franklin, Pennsylvania), referenced \"factory model of education\" to describe college classrooms. Although it's likely that neither Jablonski or Lamb originated the term, their usage represents the terms' first appearance in the media.\n\nIn a 1989 piece in \"The Phi Delta Kappa,\" \"The Horse is Dead\", Dr Leslie A. Howard connected the term to Horace Mann's experiences in Prussia in 1843 but offered no references or evidence for the connection. Howard's piece was cited in numerous educational philosophy and theory texts in the 1980s and 1990s. The phrase has been used by education leaders including Marilyn Roth of the National Education Association, in 1987. Al Shanker, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, referenced the concept in a 1989 speech, \"The Revolution that is Overdue: From Information Factory to Learning and Teaching in Restructuring Schools.\" Ted Dintersmith, author of What School Could Be: Insights and Inspiration from Teachers across America (2018), used the term in a graphic to describe the evolution of the American education system. In the graphic, \"factory model\" is connected to the year 1893 (the year the NEA Committee of Ten published their final report) and the goal of training \"factory workers.\" The Committee of Ten report makes no mention of factories or factory workers. Authors will also draw connections between child-labor laws, factories, and the spread of tax-funded schools and compulsory education laws such as Seth Godin in his book, Stop Stealing Dreams (2004).\n\nJohn Taylor Gatto's book \"The Underground History of Education\" published in 2001 linked the \"factory school\" model to a number of cultural ills and also connected Mann to Prussian factories. Gatto's text has been cited by multiple non-fiction books on education including The End of Average by Todd Rose (2015) and Schools on Trial by Nikhil Goyal (2016), both of which use the phrase to advocate a particular set of changes. Gatto does not explain how he reached the conclusion Mann wanted schools that worked like factories.\n\nIn some cases, authors have used the term \"factory model\" as a metaphor. As a modern example, the animation and text of Sir Ken Robinson's TedTalk compares students in schools to materials in a factory and references children's \"date of manufacturing\" as a sorting mechanism. This clearest example of this in historical writing is in the research of Raymond E. Callahan, especially in \"Education and the Cult of Efficiency\" (1962). Callahan explored the relationship between public education and the emerging concept of Scientific Management in the 1910s and included quotes by school leaders who spoke of children as the \"raw goods\" schools were meant to mold into something better. The most prolific user of this analogy was Ellwood Patterson Cubberley. He saw the logical, methodical approach of scientific management as a way for public education to adapt to influxes of immigrants, white female students, and Black American children that were entering into the system and ensure the best outcomes. Cubberley wrote numerous guides for school administrators as well as a history book and was one of the most widely read educational authors of the 1910s and 1920s. He frequently used the metaphor of school as a factory and it's not uncommon for modern day authors to take his and his contemporaries' comments out of context.\n\nA theory that deeply informed school leaders during this period was the work of Frederick Taylor. His approach to time management was known as Taylorism and it influenced multiple aspects of American society, including education. An example of its adoption in the home are the experiences of Lillian and Frank Gilbreth, whose scientific approach to parenting was described in their son's book Cheaper By the Dozen. In schools, this philosophical approach - that any problem could be solved by breaking it down into smaller units and considering time costs - was used in a variety of ways. For example, a group of English teachers in 1913 aggregated how much time they spend grading papers and used their findings to appeal to school leaders for more time to grade and provide feedback.\n\nWhile teachers would use Tayalorism to their advantage and to plead their case, they also spoke up against it and its impact on their work. In 1903, Margaret Haley chided school administrators for failing to recognize teachers' hard work and a tendency toward \"factory-izing education\" and \"making the teacher an automaton, a mere factory hand, whose duty it is to carry out mechanically and unquestioningly the ideas and orders of those clothed with the authority of position.\" Haley used quotations around the phrase \"factory-izing education\" in her speech, suggesting she saw it as a metaphor, and not a direct comparison.\n\nAlthough the phrase \"factory model\" didn't become a part of educational discourse until the 1980s, David B. Tyack, a leader in the field of educational history, provided a context for it in his history of American urban education, The One Best System (1974). \"Just as eighteenth-century theologians could think of God as a clock-maker without derogation, so the social engineers searching for new organizational forms used the words 'machine' and 'factory' without investing them with the negative associations they evoke today.\" This idea that school leaders spoke about factories as a frame of reference is also explained in Pillars of the Republic, Common Schools and American Society, 1780-1860 by Carl Kaestle (1983).Schools thus became in some respects like factories, but not necessarily because they were mimicking factories, or preparing children to work in factories. Rather, both the workplace and the schools, as well as other nineteenth-century institutions, were partaking of the same ethos of efficiency, manipulation, and mastery. (p. 90)\n\nSetting aside that school leaders around the turn of 20th century used factories as a metaphor and not a philosophical foundation, there are at least two problems with the terms.\n\nHorace Mann presented his thoughts following his trip to Prussia in a report to the Massachusetts Board of Education. He filed several reports and his 7th submission focused on his experiences in Europe. Filed in 1844, the report contains no reference to Prussian factories nor mention of concepts like efficiency, trained workers, or docile children. While this alone isn't sufficient to refute claims about a factory model mentality informing the development of American schools, it does challenge claims by authors like Taylor Gatto that Mann was eager to replicate a model of education that would train children to work in factories. Likewise, the final report by the National Education Association's Committee of Ten makes no reference to factory skills or to modeling schools after factories.\n\nFactories that existed around the time of Mann and the spread of the common school movement don't resemble factories in the way we think of them today. The most in-depth look at the discrepancy between the phrase and the actual look of schools and factories in the 1840s is \"The Invented History of 'The Factory Model of Education\"' by Audrey Watters. Even though historians have taken different perspectives on the influence of merchants and manufacturers on the rise of the Common School movement, there is a consensus that the focus of education for most of American history, especially at the primary levels, has been about general knowledge, not the specific skills required for factory work.\n"}
{"id": "55927418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55927418", "title": "Fair Opportunity Project", "text": "Fair Opportunity Project\n\nFair Opportunity Project is a centralized platform of free college admissions and financial aid resources. The resources provided by Fair Opportunity Project have been downloaded in 36 countries and are featured on 52 other websites. Luke Heine and Cole Scanlon founded the non-profit organization to improve the likelihood that young people from any background have equal information on the college and financial aid application process.\n\nFair Opportunity Project was founded in April 2016. It was a nation-wide effort to provide free college admissions resources building off of Luke Heine’s Midwest Information Parity Project that was sent to 6,000 principals and superintendents in nine states. In 2016, Fair Opportunity Project worked with various college students, high school counselors, and advisors to write a free 70-page college admissions and financial aid guide including successful college essays, free online videos, scholarship websites, and much more.\n\nSince sending out the first batch of guide to 57,000 public schools, Fair Opportunity Project has launched video modules and translated the guide into Spanish and Mandarin. In Fall 2017, the guide was sent to 64,000 public schools, awarded Forbes 30 under 30, and featured in Thrillest, the Harvard Ed Magazine, and the Harvard Gazette.\n"}
{"id": "32838368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32838368", "title": "Femrite", "text": "Femrite\n\nFEMRITE – Uganda Women Writers' Association is an NGO based in Kampala, Uganda, whose programmes focus on developing and publishing women writers in Uganda and—more recently—in the East African region. FEMRITE has likewise expanded its concerns to East African issues regarding the environment, literacy, education, health, women's rights and good governance.\n\nFEMRITE was founded in 1995 by Mary Karoro Okurut, currently (as of 2011) a member of the 8th Parliament of Uganda, but at that time a lecturer at Makerere University. Okurut was joined by Lillian Tindyebwa, Ayeta Anne Wangusa, Susan Kiguli, Martha Ngabirano, Margaret Ntakalimaze, Rosemary Kyarimpa, Hilda Twongyeirwe, Philomena Rwabukuku and Judith Kakonge.\n\nFEMRITE was officially launched as a Non-Governmental Organization on 3 May 1996. Goretti Kyomuhendo, who would later found African Writers Trust, served as FEMRITE's first coordinator. Other notable early members include Beverley Nambozo, Glaydah Namukasa, Beatrice Lamwaka, Doreen Baingana, Violet Barungi, Mildred Barya (also known as Mildred Kiconco), and Jackee Budesta Batanda.\n\nOf FEMRITE’s origins and mission, Kyomuhendo, in a 2003 interview with \"Feminist Africa\", stated: \"To talk about FEMRITE is to talk about Uganda's literary scene, about Ugandan politics, and especially about the connections between women, politics and writing in Uganda.\"\n\n\nFEMRITE, as reported by various journalists, has been active in Uganda and the greater East African region in the areas of promoting literacy, educational reform, women's rights, and good governance. These activities have generally received positive notice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10970026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10970026", "title": "Genevieve Taggard", "text": "Genevieve Taggard\n\nGenevieve Taggard (November 28, 1894 in Waitsburg, Washington – November 8, 1948 in New York City) was an American poet.\n\nGenevieve Taggard was born to James Taggard and Alta Arnold, both of whom were school teachers. Her parents were both active members of the Disciples of Christ, and at age two her parents moved to Honolulu, Hawaii, where they became missionaries and founded a school in which they also taught.\n\nGenevieve Taggard began writing poetry at the early age of 13. In 1914 the family left Hawaii, and Taggard enrolled at the University of California, Berkeley. Here she became an active member of the socialist political and literary community. She graduated in 1919 upon which she moved to New York City in 1920.\n\nOnce in New York she started working for the publisher B. W. Huebsch and in 1921 she co-founded the journal \"The Measure\" along with fellow writer and friend Maxwell Anderson. In the same year she married poet and novelist Robert Wolf with whom she had her only child Marcia Wolf (later Liles). Upon living in New York for most of the 1920s she assumed a teaching position at Mount Holyoke College, where she taught from 1929 to 1930.\n\nIn 1931, she was a Guggenheim Fellow.\nIn 1932, she accepted a professorship at Bennington College. In 1934 Taggard and Wolf divorced, and the following year she married Kenneth Durant. In 1934, she moved on to teach at Sarah Lawrence College, where she remained until 1947, a year before her death.\n\nHer poems were published in \"The Nation\", \"The Kenyon Review\", \"The New Yorker\", \"The New Republic\".\n\nDuring the 1930s, sparked in part by the Great Depression, but also largely by her philanthropic upbringing and her commitment to socialism, her poetry began to reflect her political and social views much more prominently. During this time a Guggenheim Fellowship allowed her to spend a year in Majorca, Spain and Antibes, France. The experience of Spain in its time shortly before the Spanish Civil War gave further rise and inspiration to her cause of raising social and political awareness of civil rights issues.\n\nHer papers are held at Dartmouth College and the New York Public Library.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13952350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13952350", "title": "Henri Poincaré University", "text": "Henri Poincaré University\n\nThe Henri Poincaré University, or Nancy 1, nicknamed UHP, was a public research university located in Nancy, France. UHP was merged into University of Lorraine in 2012, and was previously a member of the Nancy-Université federation, belonging to the French Nancy-Metz academy.\n\nThe first University of Lorraine was created in 1572 by the Duke Charles de Lorraine and the Cardinal Charles III, in a city near Pont-à-Mousson.\n\nNancy 1 merged with Nancy-II, Paul Verlaine University – Metz, and the INPL forming the University of Lorraine. The merger process started in 2009 with the creation of a \"pôles de recherche et d'enseignement supérieur\" or PRES and was completed 1 January 2012.\n\nUHP figures in the Academic Ranking of World Universities made by the Shanghai Jiao Tong University. In the year 2007, UHP ranked 305th at a worldwide scale and 124th at European scale.\n\nUhp had five Faculties:\n\nThree Engineering Schools:\n\nThree Institutes of Technology (IUT):\n\nAnd one Institute for Teacher Training (IUFM).\n\nThe University included a total of 44 laboratories, linked with the most important French research organizations : CNRS, INSERM, INRA and INRIA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22105675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22105675", "title": "Howison Lectures in Philosophy", "text": "Howison Lectures in Philosophy\n\nThe Howison Lectures in Philosophy are a lecture series established in 1919 by friends and former students of George Howison, who served as the Mills Professor of Intellectual and Moral Philosophy and Civil Polity at the University of California, Berkeley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35056326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35056326", "title": "Interactive Science", "text": "Interactive Science\n\nInteractive Science is an American K-8 science program that utilizes the practices in science instruction, featuring the Understanding by Design learning framework, the 5-E Instructional Model, and an emphasis on science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), as well as 21st Century skills. It is organized into three pathways – Reading, Inquiry and Digital.\n\nA range of multimedia resources are available with the Interactive Science program, and student and teacher editions are now available on eText for iPad.\n\nDon Buckley, a founder of New York City Independent School Technologists (NYCIST) and chair of New York Association of Independent School’s annual IT conference, has taught students on two continents and created multimedia and Internet-based instructional systems for schools around the world.\n\nZipporah Miller, is the former K–12 science supervisor and STEM coordinator for the Prince George’s County (MD) Public School District. Miller has overseen curriculum development and staff training for more than 150 district science coordinators.\n\nMichael J. Padilla is a professor of science education and the former Director of the Eugene T. Moore School of Education at Clemson University in Clemson, South Carolina. He was formerly a professor, associate dean and department chair of Science Education at the University of Georgia. Dr. Padilla has taught science in the middle and secondary school, has expertise in middle grades teacher education and served as one of the writers of the U.S. National Science Education Standards, released in 1996.\n\nSelected by NASA in May 1984, Dr. Thornton is a veteran of four space flights. She is currently the Associate Dean for Graduate Programs in the University of Virginia School of Engineering and Applied Science.\n\nCo-author (Wiggins and McTighe) on the textbook \"Understanding by Design\" published by ASCD, Grant Wiggins is the President of Authentic Education in Hopewell, New Jersey.\n\nAn author on more than 50 scientific publications, Dr. Wysession was awarded a Packard Foundation Fellowship and Presidential Faculty Fellowship for his research in geophysics. He is an expert on Earth's inner structure and has mapped various regions of the Earth using seismic tomography, and an Associate Professor in Earth and Planetary Science at Washington University in St. Louis, Missouri.\n"}
{"id": "18353819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18353819", "title": "Jones &amp; Bartlett Learning", "text": "Jones &amp; Bartlett Learning\n\nJones & Bartlett Learning, a division of Ascend Learning, is a provider of instructional, assessment and learning-performance management solutions for the secondary, post-secondary, and professional markets. The name comes from Donald W. Jones, the company's founder, and Arthur Bartlett, the first editor.\n\nFounded by Donald W. Jones and Arthur Bartlett in 1983, the original editorial office was located in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, and the company's corporate logo is the local Nobska lighthouse. In 1986, Jones and Bartlett acquired the Wadsworth Health Sciences publishing program from The Thomson Corporation, which moved the company into nursing and health sciences.\n\nIn 1988, the company was named by \"New England Business Magazine\" as one of the 100 fastest-growing companies in New England. In 1989, they opened their first office in London. In 1993, they opened an office in Singapore, and an office in Toronto in 1994. Their corporate headquarters moved to Sudbury, Massachusetts in 1995. In 2011, Jones & Bartlett Learning moved its offices in Sudbury and Maynard, Massachusetts to Burlington, Massachusetts, sharing a building with other Ascend Learning corporate offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "29829539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29829539", "title": "Khazar University Press", "text": "Khazar University Press\n\nKhazar University Press, an independent publishing house affiliated with Khazar University, produces printed publications related to education and research fields.\n\nThe publishing house mainly produces textbooks, monographs, conference transactions, scholarly journals, magazines, and other quality prose works. It also publishes works translated from English and other languages into Azerbaijani and vice versa.\n\nSince its founding in 1995, the Khazar University Press has been publishing the magazine (with wide range of fields) \"Khazar View\" (Azerbaijani: Xəzər Xəbər jurnalı) in English, Azerbaijani, and Russian. The publishing house is also known for the academic \"Khazar Journal of Humanities and Social Sciences\" (\"Azərbaycan Araşdırmaları Jurnalı\") and the \"Azerbaijan Archeology Journal\" (\"Azərbaycan Arxeologiyası jurnalı\").\n\nKhazar University Press acts as the national ISBN agent for Azerbaijan as well as its national ISMN agent.\n\n"}
{"id": "44827879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44827879", "title": "Learning alliance", "text": "Learning alliance\n\nA learning alliance is a diverse network of individuals committed to improving knowledge on a specific research topic. Learning alliances are often made up of small networks of public, private and/or civil society actors seeking to further social or political change.\n\nLearning alliances consist of a series of facilitated meetings or informal exchanges between stakeholders with a common advocacy interest. Individual actors or groups share knowledge on a topic in order to improve the validity, accuracy and dissemination of their analysis.\n\nLearning Alliances in the humanitarian sector often place importance on improving the capacity of disadvantaged social groups to solve problems on their own behalf. The learning alliance concept has ties to the field of Participatory Action Research, or PAR, an approach to social research that emphasizes participation and action by community members.\n\nIn humanitarian, development and social research fields, the term Learning Alliance has been used by international aid groups to describe cross-boundary stakeholder networks focused on improving local civil society capacity.\n\nThe Learning Alliance approach was first discussed in literature in 1994 investigating what Michael Gibbons called mode two knowledge production. Mode two knowledge production involves multidisciplinary teams that work together on specific problems in the real world, in contrast to mode one knowledge production, “which is motivated by scientific knowledge alone... and which is not bothered by the applicability of its findings”. Gibbons noted that this type of research “promotes the interaction of multiple actors with multi-layered sources of knowledge to cope with the complexity of fostering continuous technological, social and institutional innovations to respond to rapidly changing contexts and demands”.\n\nIn 2012 the United Nations Barrier Monitoring Unit (BMU) launched a formal Learning Alliance called the Academic Cooperation Palestine Project (ACPP) to enhance the educational and technical capacity of Palestinian researchers. ACPP hosted local and international research partnerships around sensitive issues related to the Israeli Separation Wall, including land degradation, water rights and land title controls. ACPP is now called the WALL Learning Alliance.\n\nIn the United States, the Digital Learning Alliance group formed to “improve economic growth in underserved areas of the U.S. by advocating for personalized education through the use of digital learning technologies”.\n\nThe Learning Alliance, started in 2009 in the United States, was organized to further literacy among school children. In Indian River County, Florida, the Alliance worked with parents, community leaders, educators, and concerned citizens to achieve 90 percent literacy by third grade by 2018. In 2017, through professional development opportunities, book drives, and after school and summer programs, literacy had increased to 56 percent. Following a learning alliance structure, the group meets monthly.\n"}
{"id": "21362278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21362278", "title": "List of business simulation video games", "text": "List of business simulation video games\n\nThis is a comprehensive index of business simulation games, sorted chronologically. Information regarding date of release, developer, platform, setting and notability is provided when available. The table can be sorted by clicking on the small boxes next to the column headings.\n\n"}
{"id": "15749323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15749323", "title": "List of the oldest public high schools in the United States", "text": "List of the oldest public high schools in the United States\n\nThe following are the oldest public high schools in the United States that are still in operation. While some of these schools have operated as private schools in the past, all are currently public schools. The list does not include schools that have closed or consolidated with another school to form a new institution. The list is ordered by date of creation, and currently includes schools formed before 1870.\n\n"}
{"id": "2776696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2776696", "title": "Manila Waldorf School", "text": "Manila Waldorf School\n\nManila Waldorf School is the first Waldorf school in the Philippines. The school was founded in 1994 as a kindergarten, and currently has over 200 students from kindergarten up to Grade 12.\n\nThe Manila Waldorf School, Inc. (MWSI) is a private non-stock, non-profit educational foundation recognized by the Department of Education since 1994. MWSI is part of the non-traditional educational movement. Its philosophy is based on the teachings of the Austrian philosopher Dr. Rudolf Steiner on the development stages of childhood and adolescence. MWSI is recognized by the Goetheanum in Dornach, Switzerland as an authentic Waldorf or Steiner school.\n\nMWSI offers Parent-Toddler (Paslitan); Kindergarten (Palaruan); Grade School (Paaralan); and High School (Kawayan). MWSI is located in Timberland Heights, San Mateo, Rizal just 15 minutes away from the Batansang Pambansa in Quezon City. It also has a satellite kindergarten school situated in E. Rodriguez, Quezon City.\n\n"}
{"id": "56647735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56647735", "title": "Marshall Islands Public School System", "text": "Marshall Islands Public School System\n\nRepublic of Marshall Islands Public School System (PSS) is the public school system of the Marshall Islands, headquartered in Majuro. It was established in November 2013 by Public Law 2013-23.\n\nSecondary:\n\nPrimary:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4457146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4457146", "title": "Minnesota State Knowledge Bowl Meet", "text": "Minnesota State Knowledge Bowl Meet\n\nThe Minnesota State Knowledge Bowl Meet is an annual, two-day academic quiz competition sponsored by the Minnesota Service Cooperatives, which is Minnesota's governing body of Knowledge Bowl. The State Meet is held in April at Cragun's Resort in Brainerd.\n\nThe 48 teams that qualify for the Minnesota State Knowledge Bowl Meet are ordered by enrollment size and then are evenly divided, with the larger 24 schools in Class AA, and the smaller 24 schools in Class A. All schools from the Metro Region (Region XI) are automatically placed in Class AA. If one private school qualifies, it is automatically placed in Class AA, regardless of size. If two private schools qualify, the larger is placed in Class AA, and the smaller in Class A. If three private schools qualify, the larger two are placed in Class AA, and the smallest is placed in Class A, and so on.\n\nThe first day of the State Knowledge Bowl Meet begins in the evening with a banquet, at which all the teams are introduced. Following the banquet is the written round which consists of 60 questions. Once the written rounds are scored, the teams are ranked. In the event of a tie after the written round, certain questions will be used to break the tie. The state meet is \"power-ranked,\" that is, teams are grouped together by their current standing as follows:\n\n\nTeams are power ranked for five, 45-question oral rounds. At the end, the team with the highest total score is the State Champion. The top 3 teams receive trophies, and the top 6 teams receive medals. If there is a tie among the top 6 following the fifth and final oral round, it is broken by a 15-question \"overtime.\" The Heritage Spirit Award is given to one team from each class that demonstrates a positive attitude and sportsmanship as voted on by the readers, computer operators, coaches, and other teams.\n\nIn 2007, the State Tournament began using strength-of-scoring, or \"SOS\". After the last oral rounds, teams receive 1.5 extra points for each round they have competed in the top room, 1 extra point for each round in the second room, and 0.5 extra points for each round in the third room. This was done both to help break ties and to recognize that scoring points is harder in top rooms.\n\nPrior to 2000, there was a \"championship round,\" in which the top three teams (after five oral rounds) competed head-to-head to determine who would be champion.\n\nFurthermore, the state meet was not split into two classes until 1996.\n\nRegarding how the State Tournament ended up in the Brainerd resort area, former Metro ECSU Knowledge Bowl coordinator Marilyn McGowan says \"It all hinges on a measles outbreak in Thief River Falls the year the tournament was to be held there and the state health department said we would have to cancel our plans to have it there. Thus, at the last minute, it was moved to Cragun's. The original plan was to have each ECSU region host it with it being held throughout the state. However, it worked so well holding it in a resort without the temptations of a city, that it has been held at a Brainerd lakes resort ever since the episode with the measles outbreak. We have also been at Madden's and Breezy Point.\"\n\nThe 1984 tournament had five oral rounds like today's, but in 1986 and 1987 only four oral rounds were played (in addition to the written round and championship round). In 1991 and before, oral rounds consisted of 60 questions. In 1992 the change was made to 45 questions per round.\n\nIn 2013, only four oral rounds were used. Due to inclement weather across the state, the Friday schedule was moved back by a couple of hours to allow for late arrivals; the fifth oral round was eliminated to keep the meet more on schedule. It should be noted that this weather caused some schools to not be able to attend at all. Only 21 AA teams attended, instead of the usual 24.\n\nBlanks indicate incomplete records. A second score by a team name indicates score in championship round (through 1999) or score in tiebreaker round (2000 and after).\n"}
{"id": "7444942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7444942", "title": "National League for Nursing", "text": "National League for Nursing\n\nThe National League for Nursing (NLN) is a national organization for faculty nurses and leaders in nurse education. It offers faculty development, networking opportunities, testing services, nursing research grants, and public policy initiatives to more than 40,000 individual and 1,200 education and associate members.\n\nThe National League for Nursing promotes excellence in nursing education to build a strong and diverse nursing workforce to advance the health of our nation and the global community.\n\nThe NLN was founded in 1893 as the American Society of Superintendents of Training Schools for Nurses and was the first organization for nursing in the U.S. In 1912, it was renamed the National League for Nursing Education (NLNE) and released the first Standard Curriculum for Schools of Nursing in 1917.\nIn 1942, the NLNE created individual membership, enabling African-American nurses to participate in the organization. In 1952, the NLNE combined with the National Organization for Public Health Nursing and the Association for Collegiate Schools of Nursing as the National League for Nursing, and the United States Department of Education (USDE) recognized the NLN, including it on the initial list of recognized accrediting agencies. This allowed the NLN to assume responsibility for the accreditation of nursing schools in the U.S.\n\nAt this time the NLN included African-American nurses in positions, including the board of directors. Willie Mae Jackson Jones (pictured), of the Community Nursing Services of Montclair, New Jersey, served as the first African-American in the organization, as a member of the first NLN board of directors. Additionally, Dr. Lillian Holland Harvey, the Dean of the Tuskegee Institute School of Nursing, was also on the board of directors.\n\nIn 1996, the NLN Board of Governors approved establishment of an independent entity within the organization to be known as the National League for Nursing Accrediting Commission (NLNAC). In 1997, the NLNAC began operations with sole authority and accountability for carrying out the responsibilities inherent to the accreditation processes. Fifteen Commissioners were appointed: nine nurse educators, three nursing service representatives, and three public members. The Commissioners assumed responsibilities for the management, financial decisions, policy-making, and general administration of the NLNAC. \nThe NLNAC was incorporated as a subsidiary of the NLN in 2001, and twelve years later, the name of the NLNAC was changed to the Accreditation Commission for Education in Nursing (ACEN), the name under which the subsidiary continues to operate. On December 1, 2014, Marsal P. Stoll, EdD, MSN, was appointed the chief executive officer of the ACEN. \nIn 2014, the NLN created an additional commission for nursing education accreditation, the Commission for Nursing Education Accreditation (CNEA). On July 1, 2014, Judith A. Halstead, PhD, RN, FAAN, ANEF, was appointed executive director of the CNEA. \nBoth organizations operate to support the interests of nursing education through accreditation. A core difference is that the ACEN is recognized by the USDE. This recognition includes the ACEN being recognized by the USDE as an “institutional” accreditation agency, and as such the nursing program offered by the “institution” can be eligible for Higher Education Reauthorization Act, Title IV funds through the ACEN. \nA collection of papers including proceedings of annual conventions, meeting minutes, biographical data of early leaders, correspondence, and photos are held at the National Library of Medicine in Bethesda, Maryland. \n\nAccredited Programs\n\nThe number of accredited programs awarding academic degrees, diplomas or certificates by the NLNAC as of 2010:\n\nThe NLN provides the Total Assessment Program (TAP) for NCLEX Success, which is a comprehensive testing services program for nurse educators, students, and practitioners. TAP is a complete preparation package to assess students’ abilities and achievement prior to admission, after specific courses, and at the completion of nursing programs. The TAP package consists of Pre-Admission Exams; Achievement Exams, including Practice Tests and Remediation; Pre-NCLEX Readiness Exams; Live Review; and Question Review Bank (QRB).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15703498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15703498", "title": "Open Learning for Development", "text": "Open Learning for Development\n\nOpen learning for development describes the Open Training Platform, a UNESCO-driven online hub offering free training and learning resources on a wide range of development topics. Its ultimate goal is to help developing countries around the world and foster cooperation to provide free and open content for development.\n\nUNESCO has launched this platform on the internet to make available training and capacity-building programmes and resources. These are developed by a variety of stakeholders worldwide in a wide range of subjects, including literacy, computers, business, environment, community development and much more.\n\nThe Open Training Platform initiative regroups partners from all UN agencies (FAO, ILO/ITC, ITU, UNESCO, the UNITAR, UNV, WHO and UNEP), worldwide development practitioners and agencies, as well as regional and local NGOs and CBOs.\n\n"}
{"id": "22174474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22174474", "title": "Patrick Delcroix", "text": "Patrick Delcroix\n\nPatrick Delcroix (born February 8, 1963 in Pau, France) was a dancer and choreographer. He was educated at the École supérieure de danse de Cannes Rosella Hightower in Cannes and the Ecole de danse Colette Soriano in Orthez, France.\n\nIn 1982, he joined the Iwanson Dance Company in Munich, in 1985 the Scapino Ballet Amsterdam followed by the Nederlands Dans Theater 1 where he danced from 1986 to 2003. Through the annual NDT choreographic workshops, Jiří Kylián invited him to create a number of ballets for all three sectors of NDT.\n\nAs a choreographer, Delcroix has created over 40 works and re-staged further pieces by himself and Jiří Kylián all over the world.\n\nIn 2001, he was made Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres .\n\n"}
{"id": "29397211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29397211", "title": "Peter Osborne (philosopher)", "text": "Peter Osborne (philosopher)\n\nPeter Osborne (born 1958) is Professor of Modern European Philosophy and Director of the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy (CRMEP), Kingston University, London. He is also an editor of the journal \"Radical Philosophy\".\n\nOsborne graduated from the University of Bristol in 1979, with a Bachelor of Science in philosophy and economics, went on to obtain a Master of Arts in Philosophy at the University of Sussex in 1980, and stayed on to earn a Doctor of Philosophy degree in 1988 Osborne, along with CRMEP colleague Howard Caygill, was a student of Gillian Rose.\n\nOsborne returned to the University of Bristol in 1988 to become a lecturer in the philosophy department. Then, in 1989, he lectured in the undergraduate philosophy department at Middlesex University, remaining there until he became, first, a senior lecturer (in 1992), then a reader (academic rank) in the graduate programme, before becoming a professor in 1997.\n\nOsborne has subsequently served as a supervisor for PhD candidates, including Mark Neocleous (now Professor of the Critique of Political Economy Politics and History, Brunel University London), Bob Cannon (now Senior Lecturer in Sociology and the BA Sociology Programme Leader, University of East London), Stewart Martin (now Reader in Philosophy and Fine Art, Middlesex University), Andrew McGettigan (now a freelance writer/researcher on philosophy, the arts and education), Alastair Morgan (now Lecturer in Mental Health and Social Care, University of Nottingham), Nina Power (now Senior Lecturer in Philosophy, University of Roehampton), Katie Lloyd Thomas (now Lecturer in Architecture, Newcastle University).\nOsborne’s books include: \"Anywhere or Not at All: Philosophy of Contemporary Art\" (2013); \"The Politics of Time: Modernity and Avant-Garde\" (1995/2010); \"Marx\" (2005); \"Conceptual Art\" (2002); and \"Philosophy in Cultural Theory\" (2000). He also edited the three-volume \"Walter Benjamin: Critical Evaluations in Cultural Theory\" (2005). Osborne’s writing on contemporary art includes contributions to the journals Afterall, Art History, October, and Oxford Art Journal Catalogues accompanying exhibitions including: \"Matias Faldbakken: The Shock of Abstraction\", the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design, Oslo and Ikon, Birmingham, 2009; \"The Quick and the Dead\", the Walker Art Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 2009; and \"Sol Lewitt’s Sentences on Conceptual Art\", The Office of Contemporary Art Oslo, Norway, 2009.\n\nOsborne teaches and publishes on Modern European Philosophy and the philosophy of modern and contemporary art — with particular reference to Conceptual Art. He has written catalogue essays for the Tate Modern art gallery in London, the Biennale art festival of Sydney, Australia, the Walker Art Center, and the Norwegian National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design. He has acted as a consultant to the Education Programme at the Tate Britain art gallery in London and In Defence of Philosophy] on the Tate Channel) and is consultant for the Office of Contemporary Art (OCA) in Norway with regard to the representation of Norway at the 2011 Venice Biennale.\n\nOsborne also served as editorial consultant for a series of publication for OCA, and currently serves as a member of the advisory board for Pavilion (Journal for Politics and Culture). He has played a major role in the bimonthly British journal \"Radical Philosophy\" for nearly thirty years and plays an active role in current debates about the future of universities in the United Kingdom. Hi is the Director of the Centre for Research in Modern European Philosophy at Kingston University.\n\nIn April 2010, Middlesex University decided to close down Philosophy, its highest research-rated subject. Middlesex students and staff, and thousands of their supporters in the UK and around the world, campaigned to save it. The website set up as part of the effort to do so is still running today and is continually updated vis-à-vis related campaigns and issues.\n\nBroadly speaking, Osborne's project has followed the conception and function of philosophy as ‘its own time comprehended in thought’ (Hegel). (At a talk at the ICA that was held in response to the (then) plans to close the philosophy department when Osborne and the CRMEP was based at Middlesex, he spoke of the fact that as a practise, philosophy is not quantifiable; that is, it is not something that is easily measurable by time.)\n\nOsborne completed his doctoral thesis at the University of Sussex in England in 1988. Entitled \"The carnival of philosophy: philosophy, politics and science in Hegel and Marx\", it no doubt formed some of the material for the more recently published \"How to Read Marx\" (Granta magazine, 2005), the fifth chapter of which recalls its title. A central influence on Osborne's thought has been the work of German philosopher Theodor W. Adorno, who figures in his early essays concerning the problem of modernity and the crisis in the visual arts\n\nOsborne's first book, \"The Politics of Time: Modernity and Avant-Gard\"e (Verso Books, 1995, reprinted 2011) was reflective of his general understanding of the modern European tradition of philosophy as being \"first and foremost a philosophy of time\", stemming from the work of Immanuel Kant, as founder of modern philosophy. Osborne discussed the politics of time in relation to contemporary art in a discussion organised by the Frieze Art Foundation and held in conjunction with the London Frieze Art Fair in 2008.\n\nIn a recent exchange with his colleague Eric Alliez at the Stanley Picker Gallery on 27 April 2007, Osborne explained that at \"the end of the Eighties, my project became to \"mediate \"Aesthetic Theory\" with the history of contemporary art since the 1960s\" (understanding Adorno's project as \"the project of mediating the transdisciplinary post-Kantianism of Benjamin's thought with the history of modernism\") specifically, through the reinvention of 'the dialectic of construction and expression' (\"Philosophy and Contemporary Art After Adorno and Deleuze: An Exchange\")). The late work of Adorno anticipates the breakdown of the difference between the arts that Osborne is interested in coming to terms with (see Art Theory and Aesthetics, below).\n\nThe follow-up to \"The Politics of Time\", \"Philosophy in Cultural Theory\", was concerned with what is currently (2011) being pursued further by the CRMEP; namely, the transdisciplinary status of philosophy, as opposed to its traditional self-understanding as a self-contained discipline.\n\n\"Conceptual Art\" (Phaidon Press, 2002), constituted an authoritative survey of the art of the late Sixties and early Seventies (and beyond). Conceptual art challenged the aesthetic definition of the work of art, and attempted but failed to be absolutely anti-aesthetic. However secretly it triumphed, by rendering explicit to subsequent generations of artists the conceptual aspect of all art.\n\nFor Osborne, a crucial juncture in the transformation of the ontology of the work of art (what art most fundamentally is) is marked by the work of American artist Robert Smithson. According to this view, the traditional practise of art according to mediums (painting, sculpture, architecture) is understood to have been historically destroyed ontologically by a transcategorial practise and field — inaugurated by work like Smithson's. This is intimated in the title for a lecture he gave on Smithson at the Centre for Contemporary Art in 2008: 'An interminable avalanche of categories': conceptual issues in the work of Robert Smithson (or, once more, against 'sculpture'), as part of a series of lectures given by significant art historians under the title \"Cornerstones\".\n\nOsborne later made the speculative claim elsewhere that \"contemporary art is post-conceptual art\" in a public lecture delivered at the Fondazione Antonio Ratti (FAR), Villa Sucota, in Como, Italy, 9 July 2010. It is a claim made at the level of the ontology of the work of art (rather than say at the descriptive level of style or movement). Around the same time, he gave a lecture in conjunction with \"Pavilion\" on the concept of the contemporary and the work of The Atlas Group entitled \"The Fiction of the Contemporary: Speculative Collectivity and the Global Transnational\". He subsequently published an essay in issue 15 of the \"Pavilion Journal for Politics and Culture\", entitled: \"Imaginary Radicalisms: Notes on the Libertarianism of Contemporary Art\".\n\nIn 2013, Osborne published \"Anywhere or Not at All: Philosophy of Contemporary Art,\" which develops the speculative claim \"contemporary art is post-conceptual art\".\n\n\nResearch Seminar: Russian Avant-garde Revisited (See also the discussion)\n\nResearch Congress: Expect the Unexpected: Once more on the Horizon of Expectation (discussion)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8243544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8243544", "title": "Photography Studies College", "text": "Photography Studies College\n\nPhotography Studies College, commonly abbreviated to PSC, is a privately owned independent tertiary college located in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.\n\nPSC offers Certificate, Diploma, Advanced Diploma, Bachelor and Masters courses in Photography - both full-time and part-time, and a range of short course, online and workshop programs.\n\nPSC has been ranked top in Creative Arts in the Australian Government’s ‘Student Experience Survey’ (Quality Indicators in Learning & Teaching) each year since 2015; and has been awarded ‘College of the Year’ status by the AIPP (Australian Institute of Professional Photography) a number of times.\n\nEstablished in 1973, PSC is located at 65–67 City Road, Southbank, 3006.\n\nPhotography Studies College is a dual sector provider - Higher Education and VET Programs, and is a Registered Training Organisation. The Managing Director of PSC is Julie Moss, Honorary Fellow of the Australian Institute of Professional Photography (AIPP), Honorary Life Member of the Australian Council for Private Education and Training (ACPET), and Board Member of the Council for Private Higher Education (COPHE). \n\nAcademic Director - Dr. Laura Hougaz.\nHigher Education Courses Director - Daniel Boetker-Smith.\nVET Programs Director - Neil Stanyer.\n\nThe College boasts some of the leaders in Australian photography amongst its academic staff and mentors: Daniel Boetker-Smith, Hoda Afshar, Dr Kristian Haggblom, Dr David Rosetzky, Clare Rae, Katrin Koenning, Sarina Lirosi, Nic Kocher, Julie Wajs, Mark Harper, Bella Capezio, Scott McNaughton, Anat Cossen, Roland Dempster, Michelle Lackenby, Eamon Gallagher, Mia Mala McDonald, Brie Trenerry, Alana Holmberg, Lucia Rossi, Travis de Clifford and Senior Fellow Dr Michael Coyne. \n\nGuest Lecturers at PSC have included Martin Parr, Bryan Schutmaat, Melinda Gibson, Esther Teichmann, Louise Clements, Louis Porter and Jonathan Shaw.\n\n\nThe College offers Certificate, Diploma, Advanced Diploma, Bachelor Degree, and Masters courses in Photography - in both full-time and part-time modes. The Advanced Diploma, Bachelor, and Masters courses are exclusive to PSC. \n\nThe College has both February intakes and July intakes for most courses.\nThe College also offers short course, online and workshops in photography.\n\nApplications for all courses are made directly to the College or through VTAC (Victorian Tertiary Admissions Centre).\n"}
{"id": "49842319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49842319", "title": "Portfolio strategy", "text": "Portfolio strategy\n\nThe portfolio strategy is a method for continuously improving educational opportunities in urban K-12 school systems. The strategy entails managing a portfolio of schools by separating school oversight from school operations and by holding a school's status as contingent, rather than permanent, based on the school's performance.\n\nThe portfolio strategy in practice can be reduced to seven interrelated components: choice, autonomy, talent, varied supports, accountability, funding, and public engagement.\n\nSeveral education systems have adopted a portfolio strategy, including New Orleans, Hartford, Cleveland, Baltimore, Lawrence, and Denver.\n"}
{"id": "3023660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3023660", "title": "Pre-school playgroup", "text": "Pre-school playgroup\n\nA pre-school playgroup, or in everyday usage just a playgroup, is an organised group providing care and socialisation for children under five. The term is widely used in the United Kingdom. Playgroups are less formal than the preschool education of nursery schools. They do not provide full-time care, operating for only a few hours a day during school term time, often in the mornings only. They are staffed by nursery nurses or volunteers, not by nursery teachers, and are run by private individuals or charities, rather than by the state or companies.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since around the 1980s, the traditional territory of the playgroup has been encroached on by the expansion of more formal nursery education, and playgroups often now cater only for two- and three-year-olds before they move onto a nursery school. Over the same period there has been an increase in the state supervision of playgroups.\n\nIn the United States, a playgroup is an organization of parents with the expressed intent to have the children come together and play. There are playgroups that cater to specific categories of parents, particularly including stay at home dads, stay at home moms, and working moms. In areas of the US where homeschooling is popular, it is not unusual to see groups especially for homeschooling families. These can be part of local or even national playgroups. Churches, rec centers, and other community organizations sometimes sponsor weekly or monthly playgroups. Age limits are determined by the individual group. Some groups have upper age limits and some do not. It is not unusual to see groups where, in addition to activities for the children, there are social events for the whole family or for parents only. In highly mobile communities, playgroups can be an important tool for building the social network of young families who have recently relocated to the area. There are a number of resources online for parents to find playgroups in their area - including Playgroups USA and Social Toddler - both directories and social networks for parents in playgroups.\n\nIn The Netherlands, international or expatriate parents form small groups, local to their area, for the purpose of providing a play space for babies and toddlers up to the age of 4-5, as well as offering a support network for the parents themselves. Meetings are usually held weekly in a hall or other public venue, and the groups usually organize other social activities such as Ladies Nights Out, visits to local parks and zoos, summer barbecues etc. In Maastricht, for example, the Maastricht International Playgroup was established more than 10 years ago as a way to cater to the needs of expatriate families living in and around the area.\n\nAnother International Playgroup is First Friends in Voorhout (in the Leiden area).\n\nPlaygroup Australia is the national peak and administrative body for playgroups in Australia. Playgroup is an informal session where mums, dads, grand parents, caregivers, children and babies meet together in a relaxed environment.\n\nPlaygroups are set up and run by parents and caregivers, with children choosing from a range of activities set up to meet their varying needs. Activities at playgroup are either free or low cost, and may include Music and singing, Imaginative play,\nOutdoor and free play, Art and craft activities or Outings.\n\nPlaygroup can be held anywhere that is safe for children and where groups of people can meet - community and neighbourhood centres, health clinics, women's centres, preschools and kindergartens, church halls and even in someone's house. In a playgroup, parents and caregivers stay to interact with the other adults; and to play with the children. No child is too young for playgroup. All children from 0–5 years, including babies, love new experiences and benefit from developing sensory, social and communication skills through activities at playgroup.\n\nMarch 2003 saw a dramatic increase in the number of mothers attending playgroup. \n\nIn Hong Kong, pre-school children (0 – 3 years) join playgroups to study (mostly foreign languages) in an interactive environment before they go on to kindergartens.\n\n"}
{"id": "8583246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8583246", "title": "Rede Lecture", "text": "Rede Lecture\n\nThe Sir Robert Rede's Lecturer is an annual appointment to give a public lecture, the Sir Robert Rede's Lecture (usually Rede Lecture) at the University of Cambridge. It is named for Sir Robert Rede, who was Chief Justice of the Common Pleas in the sixteenth century.\n\nThe initial series of lectures ranges from around 1668 to around 1856. In principle, there were three lectureships each year, on Logic, Philosophy and Rhetoric. These differed from the later individual lectures, in that they were appointments to a lectureship for a period of time, rather than an appointment for a one-off annual lecture. There was also a Mathematics lectureship which dated from an earlier time, while another term used was \"Barnaby Lecturer\", as the lecturers were elected on St Barnabas Day. A selection of the lecturers, who tended to have studied at Cambridge and be appointed after becoming Fellows of a College, is given below, with a full listing given in the sources.\n\nFrom 1858, the lecture was re-established as a one-off annual lecture, delivered by a person appointed by the Vice-Chancellor of the university. The names of the appointees and the titles of their lectures are given below.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8380814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8380814", "title": "Rock Manager", "text": "Rock Manager\n\nRock Manager is a business simulation game for Microsoft Windows.\n\nRock Manager puts the player in control of a rock band with the task of making them into rockstars.\n\nPlay starts with putting a band together. The player chooses from a list of musicians with all tastes and styles. Record a demo in a studio, adding effects to the song to make is fit the band's image. With a demo in hand, it's up to the player to bag a record deal, arrange gigs, promote the record and go on the road. But it is important to keep an eye on the musicians and keep them happy or the band might self-destruct.\n\nOptions are selected using an icon system, but recording and practicing takes place in real time.\n\nThere are five styles of music you can use: Rock, Pop, Dance, Punk and Heavy metal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1684586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1684586", "title": "Schools Interoperability Framework", "text": "Schools Interoperability Framework\n\nThe Schools Interoperability Framework, Systems Interoperability Framework (UK), or SIF, is a data-sharing open specification for academic institutions from kindergarten through workforce. This specification is being used primarily in the United States, Canada, the UK, Australia, and New Zealand; however, it is increasingly being implemented in India, and elsewhere.\n\nThe specification comprises two parts: an XML specification for modeling educational data which is specific to the educational locale (such as North America, Australia or the UK), and a service-oriented architecture (SOA) based on both direct and brokered RESTful-models for sharing that data between institutions, which is international and shared between the locales.\n\nSIF is not a product, but an industry initiative that enables diverse applications to interact and share data. , SIF was estimated to have been used in more than 48 US states and 6 countries, supporting five million students.\n\nThe specification was started and maintained by its specification body, the Schools Interoperability Framework Association, renamed the Access For Learning Community (A4L) in 2015.\n\nTraditionally, the standalone applications used by public school districts have the limitation of data isolation; that is, it is difficult to access and share their data. This often results in redundant data entry, data integrity problems, and inefficient or incomplete reporting. In such cases, a student's information can appear in multiple places but may not be identical, for example, or decision makers may be working with incomplete or inaccurate information. Many district and site technology coordinators also experience an increase in technical support problems from maintaining numerous proprietary systems. SIF was created to solve these issues.\n\nThe Schools Interoperability Framework (SIF) began as an initiative chiefly championed initially by Microsoft to create \"a blueprint for educational software interoperability and data access.\" It was designed to be an initiative drawing upon the strengths of the leading vendors in the K-12 market to enable schools' IT professionals to build, manage and upgrade their systems. It was endorsed by close to 20 leading K-12 vendors of student information, library, transportation, food service applications and more. The first pilot sites began in the summer of 1999, and the first SIF-based products began to show up in 2000.\n\nIn the beginning it was not clear which approach would become the national standard in the United States. Both SIF and EDI were vying for the position in 2000 but SIF began taking the lead in 2002 or so. In 2000, the National School Boards Association held a panel discussion during its annual meeting on the topic of SIF.\n\nIn 2007 in the United Kingdom Becta has championed the adoption of SIF as a national standard for schools data interchange.\n\nIn 2008 it was announced that in the UK the standard will become known as the \"Systems Interoperability Framework\". This reflects the intention in the UK to develop SIF to be used in other organizations beyond just schools.\n\nSome features of SIF that make it well-suited for data interoperability are:\n\nThe SIF specification is supported by the A4L community. A4L members collaborate on a variety of technical solutions and standards which include but are not limited to the Schools Interoperability Framework.\n\nMembers include districts, states, vendors, non-profits, and various government agencies.\n\nSIF has all the pains and challenges that come with any SOA specification and data model. When building specifications via consensus not everyone is always happy and sometimes the end product isn't perfect. Also given all the moving parts in modeling the entire K12's enterprise the specification has many points of possible failure. This is not particular to SIF but to any record-level, automated system moving standardized data from one source to another in a heterogeneous environment. Out-of-the-box interoperability and ease of use and implementation were part of a 12-18 month focus from 2007 and through 2009.\n\nSIF 2.x relied on using a broker called a Zone Integration Server (ZIS) to manage communication between applications. SIF 3.x and SIF 2.8+ allows for both brokered and direct communication between applications.\n\nRather than have each application vendor try to set up a separate connection to every other application, SIF has defined the set of rules and definitions to share data within a \"SIF Zone\"— or \"Environment\" which is a logical grouping of applications in which software application agents communicate with each other through a central communication point. Zones are managed by an enterprise data broker sometimes called a Zone Integration Server (ZIS). A single ZIS can manage multiple Zones. However, the current infrastructure specification supports RESTful connections directly between applications AND/OR utilizing a brokered environment.\n\nData travels between applications as a series of standardized messages, queries, and events written in XML or JSON and sent using Internet protocols. The SIF specification defines such events and the \"choreography\" that allows data to move back and forth between the applications.\n\nDirect SIF allow one application to communicate directly to another via simple REST calls to PUT, POST, GET, or DELETE resources. This is ideal for simple environments with two or maybe three players where complex choreographies are not necessary. It is easier to implement than a brokered environment in two- or three-node situations.\n\nSIF Agents are pieces of software that exist either internal to an application or installed next to it. The SIF Agents function as extensions of each application and serve as the intermediary between the software application and the SIF Zone. In brokered environments, the broker keeps track of the Agents registered in the environment and its Zones and manages transactions between Agents, enabling them to provide data and respond to requests. The broker controls all access, routing, and security within the system. Standardization of the behavior of the Agents and the broker means that SIF can add standard functionality to a Zone by simply adding SIF-enabled applications over time.\n\n\"Vertical interoperability\" is a situation in which SIF agents at different levels of an organization communicate using a SIF Zone. Vertical interoperability involves data collection from multiple agents (upward) or publishing of information to multiple agents (downward). For example, a state-level data warehouse may listen for changes in district-level data warehouses and update its database accordingly. Or a state entity may wish to publish teacher certification data to districts. The three pieces of the SIF specification that deal directly with vertical interoperability are the Student Locator object, the Vertical Reporting object, and the Data Warehouse object.\nA good example of this would be the Century Consultants SIS Agent working with the Pearson SLF Agent sending student data to the State Agency and getting Student Testing Identifiers in return.\n\nSIF was designed before REST, SOAP, namespaces, and web service standards were as mature as they are today. As a result, it has a robust SOA that is more vetted than the current SOAP specifications but does not use the SOAP or WS standards. The 2.0 SIF Web Services specification began the process of joining these two worlds, and the 3.0 Infrastructure specification completes the transformation to a SOA specification using modern tools.\n\nThe 2.0 Web Services specification allows for more generalized XML messaging structures typically found in enterprise messaging systems that use the concept of an enterprise service bus. Web service standards are also designed to support secure public interfaces and XML appliances can make the setup and configuration easier. The SIF 2.0 Web Services specification allows for the use of Web Services to communicate in and out of the Zone.\n\nThe 3.0 Infrastructure allows any data payload to be moved across it and is designed around RESTful design patterns. It allows both brokered and direct exchanges in a RESTful manner utilizing either XML or JSON payloads.\n\nStarting with SIF 3.0 the SIF Specification relies entirely-unless impossible or not practical- on the Common Education Data Standards CEDS for its controlled vocabulary and element definition. This allows it to transport CEDS over the wire and be compatible with other CEDS-compliant data sets.\n\nA similar standard LISS supports vendor integration 'within' a school site. This overcomes some limitations where a school has elected to use a Zone integration server (not a requirement in SIF 3.x implementations) LISS Lightweight Interoperability Standard for Schools connects primarily smaller, 'local' modules, such as timetabling, roll call, reporting or others, to the main admin system on a given school site. LISS works either across the web, or via a local network, and has a simpler format.\n\nSIFA is also working closely with the Postsecondary Electronic Standards Council (PESC), SCORM, and other standards organizations.\n\nIn August 2013 the SIF Association announced the release of the SIF Implementation Specification 3.0. The SIF Implementation Specification (North America) 3.0 is made up of a globally utilized reference infrastructure and North America data model focusing on supporting the Common Education Data Standards (CEDS) initiative. The new 3.0 infrastructure allows the transport of various data models including those from the other global SIF communities as well as data from the numerous “alphabet soup” data initiatives that are populating the education landscape. In essence – education now can utilize “one wire with one plug” – not the never-ending proprietary API’s and “one off” connections. The specification fully supports RESTful Web Services and SOAP-based protocols.\n\nThe Australian 3.4 Data Model specification had came out in Fall of 2016, as well as a 3.1.2 release of the Global SIF Infrastructure.\n\nThe version 2.7 specification is the previous 2.x version of SIF. Most of the SIF implementations in the United States and abroad are 2.x deployments.\n\nThe SIF 3.2 Release includes the SIF XPress Roster and the SIF Xpress Student Record Exchange (SRE). These are the result of work being done by various members of the association (vendors, agencies, regional centers) on a more easily adopted, easier to implement sub-set of the specification that handles the roster and basic uses cases.\nThe Access for Learning community has recently started taking strong leadership in the education Privacy space globally. The association has created and supports an organization called the Student Data Privacy Consortium, or SDPC.\nand working closely with national Australian privacy efforts \n\n\n"}
{"id": "33112923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33112923", "title": "Shoulder to Shoulder’s Role in Education in Honduras", "text": "Shoulder to Shoulder’s Role in Education in Honduras\n\nShoulder to Shoulder (StoS) or Hombro a Hombro is a grassroots, community-based, non-profit non-governmental organization (NGO) registered in Honduras since 1996. The organisation develops and improves health and educational programs, aiming to help poor Hondurans achieve quality health care and sustained social development. To date, StoS has created and continued on some notable educational programs.\n\nReading materials in Honduran schools are very limited and students are prohibited from even touching the few storybooks that must be kept in possession by the teacher at all times. As such, the StoS library program was started in 2007, with around 75 donated books housed in the Santa Lucia clinic, in order to provide an avenue for children to engage in creative learning through books. Eventually, the library expanded to include an exercise class, English lessons, movie night, and a book club for young adults.\n\nA newer and bigger library was subsequently built in the same area in March 2009, which contains storage closets, bathrooms, a computer lab with online research capabilities, crafts, games, toys and books (along with a borrowing system established). Activities such as story hour, geography club and a life skills course for scholarship students are conducted weekly. Overall, the StoS library program has and will continue to benefit the cognitive learning abilities of the Honduran community.\n\nThe aim of this project was to help promote the role of females in Honduran society. StoS first trained a group of Honduran teachers, using Training of Trainers (TOT) sessions that emphasized on enhancing the socio-economic capital of poor women in the surrounding poorest communities, who are seldom educated beyond third grade and almost never beyond sixth grade. The teachers would impart their knowledge to, and guide, the selected Honduran girls, who would then apply this knowledge to the initiation and undertaking of small-scale, home-based businesses that meet community needs. This helps to develop the girls’ self-esteem and groom their potential as leaders.\n\nThe results of Yo Puedo were very desirable; besides the gains in specific skills from the different projects that girls undertook, they also became more outgoing and spontaneous. Expressing more interest and performing better in their academics, almost all showcased a desire to continue their education beyond sixth grade. Communication between the community and the school increased too, due to the enhanced social involvement of the female students. Most importantly, there was a change in gender perceptions by the males: boys, who were initially upset about the program, gradually supported and even volunteered for it.\n\nSustenance of effort and interest in the project is achieved through ongoing one-on-one consultations between teachers and girls in various schools, as well as continuous participation from US volunteers. Girls are also reinvesting their earnings to continue the program.\n\nStoS’s projects focus mainly on tackling the issue of quality and quantity of education in Honduras, but other major obstacles to obtaining education in the country still remain, namely family poverty, indigenous discrimination and gender inequality.\n"}
{"id": "44121144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44121144", "title": "Steve Ellner", "text": "Steve Ellner\n\nSteve Ellner (born December 21, 1946) has taught economic history and political science at the Universidad de Oriente in Puerto La Cruz, Venezuela since 1977. He is the author of numerous books and journal articles on Venezuelan history and politics, specifically in the area of political parties and organized labor. In addition, Ellner was a frequent contributor to \"Commonweal\" magazine beginning in the 1980s and more recently \"In These Times\" and \"NACLA Report on the Americas\" and has written op-ed articles in the \"New York Times\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\". He frequently lectures on Venezuelan and Latin American political developments in the U.S. and elsewhere. Nearly all his academic works have been translated and published in Spanish.\n\nEllner was born in New York City where his paternal grandfather and grandmother arrived from Austria and Finland respectively. His grandfather, Joseph Ellner, was a writer and editor of \"The Gipsy Patteran\". In 1954, Ellner’s family moved to Connecticut.\n\nThroughout his university education, Ellner majored in Latin American history. He received his BA at Goddard College in Vermont, his MA at Southern Connecticut State University and his PhD at the University of New Mexico, where his advisor was the prominent historian Edwin Lieuwen. In the 1960s, Ellner actively participated in Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) and later the American Independent Movement (AIM) in New Haven, Connecticut and the United Farm Workers boycott committee in Albuquerque, New Mexico.\n\nEllner is married to Carmen Hercilia Sánchez and has two children.\n\nIn addition to being a full-time professor at the UDO, Ellner has been a visiting professor at the Universidad Central de Venezuela (1994-2001), St. John Fisher College in Rochester, NY (2001), Georgetown University (2004), Duke University (2005), Universidad de Buenos Aires (2010), the Australian National University (2013) and Tulane University (2015), and has taught at the School of International and Public Affairs of Columbia University (2011) and Johns Hopkins University (2012). Ellner is a participating editor of ‘‘Latin American Perspectives’’ and a member of the advisory board of ‘‘Science & Society’’.\n\nEllner centered his research on the internal currents of political parties and the labor movement that often gave rise to schisms in subsequent decades. In his dissertation and subsequent articles, he traced the left-leaning factions within the social democratic Democratic Action party (AD) in the 1940s that were the seeds of splits in the 1960s giving rise to the Revolutionary Left Movement (MIR), the People's Electoral Movement (Venezuela) and internal blocs in succeeding decades. Similarly, his \"Venezuela’s Movimiento al Socialismo: From Guerrilla Defeat to Innovative Politics\" demonstrates that the most avid and committed supporters of the armed struggle in the 1960s ended up breaking with the Communist Party of Venezuela(PCV) to form the Movement for Socialism (MAS) in 1971 and other parties. Ellner concludes that internal party tensions prior to the era of neoliberalism in the 1990s went beyond personality clashes and personal ambitions and had political and even ideological implications. This thesis runs counter to widely held assertions reflected in scholarly writing that political disputes within and between establishment parties in Venezuela during those years were largely devoid of issues of substance.\n\nIn several works beginning in 1989, Ellner employed the concept of “Venezuelan exceptionalism” to describe what he considered to be an exaggerated view of the attractiveness of the nation’s liberal democracy since the outset of the modern democratic period in 1958. Ellner claimed that Venezuela’s status as an oil exporter and its democratic stability convinced many scholars and Venezuelans in general that the nation was not susceptible to the military coups and political and social disorders that plagued its Latin American neighbors in the 1960s and 1970s. Ellner argued that Venezuela’s relatively high degree of social mobility did not necessarily reduce levels of social tension and conflict. He also contended that the depiction of Venezuela as a “model” or “showcase” democracy overlooked alleged violations of democratic norms and human rights during the post-1958 period. Nevertheless, unlike Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez and many of his followers, Ellner pointed to certain advances in the area of national development and social reforms, which according to him were reversed as a result of the implementation of neoliberal policies after 1989. Other writers in the 1990s also analyzed “Venezuelan exceptionalism” from distinct perspectives.\n\nFollowing the election of Hugo Chávez in 1998, Ellner specialized in the Chavista government and movement. In his \"Rethinking Venezuelan Politics\", Ellner draws on the thesis of British historian E.P. Thompson that the banners of political struggles defeated at a given historical moment often resurface many years later in revised form. Ellner traces struggles in Venezuela from the colonial period to the present and argues that grasping the importance of these experiences is essential in order to understand the Chávez phenomenon. Previously, Ellner had argued that the first half of the twentieth century was characterized by an important degree of historical continuity in spite of the major regime changes that took place during the period.\n\nJust as he highlighted issues of substance in his analysis of party factionalism in Venezuela, Ellner argued that concrete socio-economic policies, more than Chávez’s style, accounted for the political tensions that led to the coup of April 2002. In the concluding chapter of \"Rethinking Venezuelan Politics\", Ellner wrote: “The cause-and-effect relationship between popular and nationalist measures of an economic nature, on the one hand, and the… reaction of privileged sectors, on the other hand, was anything but subtle.”\n\nAnother thesis in his works on the presidencies of Chávez and his successor Nicolás Maduro concerns the challenges facing the government due to conflicting demands, interests and visions of Chavistas of different class backgrounds. Specifically, Ellner points to three social groups with a following within the Chavista movement: the organized working class, the middle class and the “marginalized and semi-marginalized sectors” consisting of members of the informal economy, workers in firms with less than about ten employees and much of the rural work force. An additional aspect of the complexity of the Chávez phenomenon is the movement’s ties with an emerging bourgeoisie that are designed to undermine the power of the Venezuelan Federation of Chambers of Commerce (FEDECAMARAS), which spearheaded two attempts to topple the Chávez government in 2002-2003. Ellner suggests that the establishment of these links, while understandable from political and economic viewpoints, is conducive to unethical conduct.\n\nIn stressing the importance of the internal diversity of a socialist movement that rejects the orthodox Marxist notion of the primacy of the proletariat, Ellner is admittedly influenced by the theories of Ernesto Laclau, who has been referred to as a “post Marxist.” In his edited \"Latin America’s Radical Left\", Ellner and other authors examine the complexity and heterogeneity of the twenty-first century Latin American left in power throughout the continent.\n\nIn a Historical Materialism article titled “Implications of Marxist State Theory and How They Play Out in Venezuela” and elsewhere, Ellner explores theoretical dimensions of the class policies of the Chavista governments. These included populist initiatives favoring non-privileged sectors and pragmatic ones designed to win over or neutralize businesspeople. By implementing them, the Chavista leaders appeared to backtrack from stated goals.\n\nEllner goes on to argue that issues regarding the state in capitalist societies raised in the debate between Nicos Poulantzas and Ralph Miliband in Europe in the early 1970s shed light on the relationship between the state and social classes in Venezuela and the predicaments facing Chavista governments. Three issues in particular stand out: whether the bourgeoisie (or sectors of it) displays a sense of “class-consciousness”; the viability of tactical and strategic alliances between the left and groups linked to the capitalist structure; and whether democratic socialism is to be achieved through stages, abrupt revolutionary changes, or ongoing state radicalization over a period of time. According to Ellner, Poulantzas’s concept of the state as a “strategic battlefield” lends itself to the strategy of the gradual radicalization of the state, which was advocated by some who were close to Chávez and Maduro and which was embodied in the term “process of change” (‘‘proceso de cambio’’).\n\n“University Academic Productivity Prize” in the area of social sciences (first place), granted by the university research commissions (CDCHT) of the National Council of Universities in Venezuela, 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "30047037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30047037", "title": "Stiftung Ettersberg", "text": "Stiftung Ettersberg\n\nThe Stiftung Ettersberg is legally established foundation, located in Weimar, Germany. It is mission is the comparative study of European dictatorships and their transition to democracy.\n\nThe idea for the creation of the Stiftung Ettersberg goes back to the Spanish writer and dramatist Jorge Semprún. As a former prisoner of Buchenwald Concentration Camp he suggested in 1994, on the occasion of the Friedenspreis des Deutschen Buchhandels (peace prize of the German booktrade) award, to make use of the Ettersberg, on which Buchenwald Concentration Camp and afterwards the Soviet Special Camp No. 2 had been set up, as a point of reference symbolizing Germany’s double experience of dictatorship. He encouraged to take advantage of it with a European perspective in order to further the idea of democratic development in Central and Eastern Europe and of a European integration.\nThe then minister-president of Thuringia, Dr Bernhard Vogel, took up this idea. On his initiative the Thuringian state government established the Stiftung Ettersberg, located in Weimar, in spring 2002 and the appointment of the executive board and the advisory council of the foundation.\n\nThe foundation is devoted to the comparative study of European dictatorships in the 20th century as well as their democratic transition. Its object is to contribute to the historical coming to terms with and the comparative analysis of dictatorships of fascist, national socialist and communist provenance as well as authoritarian regimes; it is to elucidate their mechanisms of rule and their driving forces. Moreover, it is dedicated to reveal the significance of opposition and resistance against authoritarian and totalitarian suppression and it keeps alive the memory of the victims of dictatorial violence. Besides, it is concerned with the problems of “coping” with the past and questions of transition from dictatorship to democracy as well as the stability conditions of liberal democracies.\nAccordingly, it is the task of the Stiftung Ettersberg to prospectively pursue historical research which does not only perform work of memory but goes beyond this by making successive generations sensitive for the latent danger to freedom and democracy. The Stiftung Ettersberg attempts to foster the international and interdisciplinary dialogue between political scholars, historians, and researchers in the field of social and cultural studies in Europe. It endeavours to disseminate national experiences internationally and thereby to make a contribution to the stabilisation of liberal democracy throughout Europe. It also aims at being a platform of international encounters, reflection, remembrance, encouragement and last but not least of a critical analysis of contemporary developments.\n\nFrom a European angle, the Stiftung Ettersberg organises international symposia, scientific conferences and colloquia, of which the results are issued in our own publication serial. In Thuringia, in the heart of Europe, the foundation promotes the dialogue between prolific university institutes, scientific and pedagogical institutions and other initiatives that operate in the field of dictatorship research and democratic transition processes. It organises exhibitions and initiates competitions for students on issues such as experience of dictatorship, stabilisation and endangering of democracy.\n\nExecutive Board\n\n\nAdvisory Council\n\n\nHonorary Members\n\n\nScientific Advisory Council\n\n\nAdvisory Council \"Aufarbeitung\"\n\n\nManaging Director\n\n\nThe Stiftung Ettersberg publication serial is titled „European Dictatorships and their Overcoming“. Since 2003, there have been published 15 volumes at Boehlau publishing house:\n\n\nThe Stiftung Ettersberg presents four touring exhibitions in various German and European cities:\n\n"}
{"id": "411509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=411509", "title": "Student-centred learning", "text": "Student-centred learning\n\nStudent-centered learning, also known as learner-centered education, broadly encompasses methods of teaching that shift the focus of instruction from the teacher to the student. In original usage, student-centered learning aims to develop learner autonomy and independence by putting responsibility for the learning path in the hands of students by imparting them with skills and basis on how to learn a specific subject and schemata required to measure up to the specific performance requirement. Student-centered instruction focuses on skills and practices that enable lifelong learning and independent problem-solving. Student-centered learning theory and practice are based on the constructivist learning theory that emphasizes the learner's critical role in constructing meaning from new information and prior experience.\n\nStudent-centered learning puts students' interests first, acknowledging student voice as central to the learning experience. In a student-centered learning space, students choose what they will learn, how they will learn, and how they will assess their own learning. This is in contrast to traditional education, also dubbed \"teacher-centered learning\", which situates the teacher as the primarily \"active\" role while students take a more \"passive\", receptive role. In a teacher-centered classroom, teachers choose what the students will learn, how the students will learn, and how the students will be assessed on their learning. In contrast, student-centered learning requires students to be active, responsible participants in their own learning and with their own pace of learning.\n\nUsage of the term \"student-centered learning\" may also simply refer to educational mindsets or instructional methods that recognize individual differences in learners. In this sense, student-centered learning emphasizes each student's interests, abilities, and learning styles, placing the teacher as a facilitator of learning for individuals rather than for the class as a whole.\n\nTheorists like John Dewey, Jean Piaget and Lev Vygotsky, whose collective work focused on how students learn, have informed the move to student-centered learning. Carl Rogers' ideas about the formation of the individual also contributed to student-centered learning. Rogers wrote that \"the only learning which significantly influences behavior [and education] is self discovered\". Maria Montessori was also a forerunner of student-centered learning, where preschool children learn through independent self-directed interaction with previously presented activities.\n\nSelf-determination theory focuses on the degree to which an individual’s behavior is self-motivated and 'self-determined'. When students are given the opportunity to gauge their learning, learning becomes an incentive.\n\nStudent-centered learning means inverting the traditional teacher-centered understanding of the learning process and putting students at the centre of the learning process. In the \"teacher-centered\" classroom, teachers are the primary source for knowledge. On the other hand, in \"student-centered\" classrooms, active learning is strongly encouraged. Armstrong (2012) claimed that \"traditional education ignores or suppresses learner responsibility\".\n\nA further distinction from a teacher-centered classroom to that of a student-centered classroom is when the teacher acts as a facilitator, as opposed to instructor. In essence, the teacher’s goal in the learning process is to guide students into making new interpretations of the learning material, thereby 'experiencing' content, reaffirming Rogers' notion that \"significant learning is acquired through doing\".\n\nThrough peer-to-peer interaction, collaborative thinking can lead to an abundance of knowledge. In placing a teacher closer to a peer level, knowledge and learning is enhanced, benefitting the student and classroom overall. According to Lev Vygotsky's theory of the zone of proximal development (ZPD), students typically learn vicariously through one another. Scaffolding is important when fostering independent thinking skills. Vygotsky proclaims, \"Learning which is oriented toward developmental levels that have already been reached is ineffective from the viewpoint of the child's overall development. It does not aim for a new stage of the developmental process but rather lags behind this process.\"\n\nOne of the most critical differences between student-centered learning and teacher-centered learning is in assessment. Student-centered learning typically involves more formative assessment and less summative assessment than teacher-centered learning. In student-centered learning, students participate in the evaluation of their learning. This means that students are involved in deciding how to demonstrate their learning. Developing assessment that supports learning and motivation is essential to the success of student-centered approaches.\n\nStudent-centered learning environments have been shown to be effective in higher education. They have been defined specifically within higher education as both a mindset and a culture within a given educational institution and as a learning approach broadly related to, and supported by, constructivist theories of learning. They are characterised by innovative methods of teaching which aim to promote learning in communication with teachers and other learners and which take students seriously as active participants in their own learning and foster transferable skills such as problem-solving, critical thinking, and reflective thinking. The revised European Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance, due to be approved by the ministers of European higher education in May 2015, include the following passage on student-centred learning: \"Institutions should ensure that programmes are delivered in a way that encourages students to take an active role in creating the learning process and [should ensure] that the assessment of students reflects this approach.\"\n\nA research university in Hong Kong sought to promote student-centered learning across the entire university by employing the following methods:\n\nThe success of this initiative was evaluated by surveying the students. After two years, the mean ratings indicating the students' perception of the quality of the teaching and learning environment at the university all rose significantly. The study is one of many examining the process of implementing student-centered pedagogies in large institutions of higher education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26468278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26468278", "title": "The Symbolic Globe", "text": "The Symbolic Globe\n\nThe Symbolic Globe is a monument, since November 1995 situated on the piazza of UNESCO in Paris, France, surrounded by the flags of all nations, pointing out that this is the headquarters of the international organization. The Symbolic Globe was originally conceived for the United Nations Summit on Social Development, March 1995. During the Summit, it was built in the centre of Copenhagen by the delegates, who had come from every corner of the earth.\n\nTransferred to the piazza of UNESCO in Paris, the Symbolic Globe was inaugurated on 7 November 1995 by Federico Mayor.\n\nIt is inspired by the logo of the United Nations and formed as a minimal structure, fifteen meters in diameter. The idea was conceived by Erik Reitzel, and the Danish Ministry of Culture financed its realization.\n\nThe word \"symbol\" comes from the old Greek \"symbolon\", which actually means sign or token. In ancient Greece, when friends separated, the host would break an object and give a piece of it to each guest. When they met again, each one would bring his/her fragment and put the object back together again. By recreating the object, they demonstrated their links of friendship as guests. This idea of sharing and friendship would then be perpetuated during the United Nations Summit in Copenhagen. The 10.000 delegates, originating from all the countries of the world, would each receive a \"symbolon\" enabling them to put together a lasting structure: the Symbolic Globe. It is probably the first time that the people of the world have worked together to erect a bearing structure and to experience the joy of constructing.\n\nErik Reitzel's experience with minimal structures was utilized, in particular his experience from building the external lift tower of la Grande Arche in Paris. A completely new building system had to be developed based on the use of special joints, rods, and bracing wires which are easy to mount, demount and transport. The development of the building system was a result of interaction between his research, education, and practice.\n\nThe greater part of the Symbolic Globe was made from a special sort of aluminium (type 7075) by contractor Emil Nielsen Smithy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25597760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25597760", "title": "Theme Aquarium", "text": "Theme Aquarium\n\nThe gameplay is very similar to the other games in the \"Theme\" series, and the graphics are similar to \"Theme Hospital\". In \"Theme Aquarium\", the player begins with an expanse of empty floor space and the task is to construct a maritime attraction for visitors which must be filled with interesting and appropriate creatures at the same time as dealing with all the attendant challenges of running a profitable business. There are two ways of getting fish and other sea life, either by buying them off sellers or by catching them yourself. Dolphin shows can also be created and serve as the star attraction of the aquarium. Staff must be hired to maintain the aquarium and also to take proper care and attention to the animals.\n\nIn a 1999 interview, Bullfrog Productions co-founder Les Edgar stated that \"Theme Aquarium\" was produced and tested in the United Kingdom, but implemented in Japan. His intention was to \"cross barriers\" between the United Kingdom and Japan, and produce a game suitable for both markets, as, due to the success of \"Theme Park\" and \"Populous\" in Japan, he thought Bullfrog were more successful than other companies in producing games that were successful there. He commented that it sold well in Japan, but would not in the United Kingdom, and that the idea of having the producers in the United Kingdom and the development team in Japan worked. In 2012, Bullfrog programmer Jonty Barnes asked fourteen ex-colleagues about the game, none of whom were familiar with it, with one describing it as \"one of those obscure titles\", although he also stated that it was known that it was intended for a Japan-only release on the PlayStation.\n\nThe game was originally intended to only be released in Japan, however Electronic Arts later developed an English version of the game. This version however was not to be on PlayStation, the game's original platform, but rather on Microsoft Windows. Not only was the English version on a different platform but it was also renamed. It was released simply as \"Aquarium\" on 15 December 2000 only in Europe.\n\nA \"Collector's Edition\" version was released a year later on 5 October 2001.\n\n\"Theme Aquarium\" has been released as a PSone Classic in Japan, allowing it to be played on PlayStation 3 and PlayStation Portable. It was released on 24 September 2009 and is available to download from the PlayStation Network store.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3658391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3658391", "title": "Tony Eprile", "text": "Tony Eprile\n\nTony Eprile is a South African writer now living in Vermont in the United States. He is the author of \"Temporary Sojourner and Other South African Stories\" (1989), which was a New York Times Notable Book of the Year, and \"The Persistence of Memory\" (2004), which won the Koret Jewish Book Award, was a New York Times Notable Book of the Year, and was listed as a best book of 2004 by the Washington Post and the Los Angeles Times. He has taught at Northwestern University, Williams College, Bennington College, Lesley University, and the Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6593542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6593542", "title": "Ukrainian Free University", "text": "Ukrainian Free University\n\nThe Ukrainian Free University (, , ) is a private graduate university located in Munich, Germany.\n\nThe Ukrainian Free University (UFU) was established in Vienna, January 17, 1921. The idea to organize a Ukrainian university-in-exile came from Ukrainian academics, some of whom had held chairs at universities in the Russian and Austro-Hungarian Empires. UFU was transferred in the fall of 1921 to Prague, Czechoslovakia. The host government granted UFU full academic accreditation and provided the University with financial support. UFU received wide recognition during its Prague period for significant and productive teaching, research and publications. \n\nAfter the Second World War, UFU established its seat in Munich, Germany. The September 16, 1950 Free State of Bavaria Ministerial decree guaranteed degree granting privileges. In the ensuing period various Bavarian university laws and ministerial decrees reaffirmed this academic privilege. Federal German and Bavarian governmental financial support contributed towards worthwhile research, publishing and teaching activities. The University became a recognized Western European scholarly centre, specializing in the study of Ukraine within the USSR and of Ukrainians in the diaspora. Emphasis was placed on the study of Ukrainian history, literature, culture, law and politics. German and Bavarian financial aid ceased in the years following Ukrainian independence, as it was assumed that patronage of the University would be assured by Ukraine.The Ukrainian Ministry of Education recognized UFU doctoral decrees in November 1992. To date, Ukrainian governmental funding have not materialized. Thus, since 2009, the Ukrainian Free University relies entirely on its own resources.\n\nOver the years, the University has evolved from a \"university-in-exile\" to a full-fledged, though highly specialized, European Union graduate school. Nevertheless, UFU has retained much of its remarkableness and singularity. In its research and publishing activities the University focuses primarily on Ukraine and things Ukrainian.\n\nThe University has three academic structures. The Faculty of Ukrainian Studies concentrates on interdisciplinary Ukrainian studies . Culture, literature and history constitute the core of Ukrainian studies. The Faculty of Philosophy houses the remaining humanitarian disciplines, such as philosophy, fine arts, music, teacher training and religion. The Faculty of Government and Political Economy unites such social science disciplines as political science, economics and business, sociology, psychology and legal studies. \n\nUFU is the only private university in the world which, while located outside of Ukraine, offers graduate programs of study in the social sciences and the humanities, primarily in Ukrainian language. In fact, in order to be able to matriculate at UFU one must demonstrate fluency in Ukrainian. Masters programs require two to three semesters of course work, an MA thesis and an oral thesis defense. Doctoral programs stipulate three semesters of course work, a doctoral dissertation, philosophy commprehensives and an oral thesis defense.Dissertations are normally written in Ukrainian. In exceptional cases permission may be granted to write in another language. Winter Semester teaching period runs from early November to mid December and from the end of January until early March. Summer Semester teaching period is from early May until the end of July.\n\nMost UFU faculty members also hold simultaneously permanent academic positions at European Union, American, Canadian and Ukrainian institutions of higher learning. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1565188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1565188", "title": "Victor Saul Navasky", "text": "Victor Saul Navasky\n\nVictor Saul Navasky (born July 5, 1932) is an American journalist, editor and academic. He is publisher emeritus of \"The Nation\" and George T. Delacorte Professor Emeritus of Professional Practice in Magazine Journalism at Columbia University. He was editor of \"The Nation\" from 1978 until 1995 and its publisher and editorial director from 1995 to 2005. Navasky's book \"Naming Names\" (1980) is considered a definitive take on the Hollywood blacklist. For it he won a 1982 National Book Award for Nonfiction.\n\nNavasky was born in New York City, the son of Esther (Goldberg) and Macy Navasky. In 1946, when he was in the eighth grade, he helped to raise money for the Irgun Zvai Leumi — by passing a contribution basket at performances of Ben Hecht’s play, \"A Flag is Born\".\n\nHe is a graduate of Swarthmore College (1954), where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and received high honors in the social sciences. While serving in the United States Army from 1954 to 1956, he was stationed at Fort Richardson in Alaska. Following his discharge, he enrolled in Yale Law School on the GI Bill and received his LL.B. in 1959. While at Yale, he co-founded and edited the political satire magazine \"Monocle\".\n\nBefore joining \"The Nation,\" Navasky was an editor at \"The New York Times Magazine.\" He also wrote a monthly column about the publishing business (\"In Cold Print\") for the \"Times\" Book Review.\n\nNavasky was named the editor of \"The Nation\" in 1978. In that forum, for many years, he was immortalized in Calvin Trillin's Uncivil Liberties column as \"the wily and parsimonious Victor S. Navasky,\" or \"The W. & P.\" for short.\n\nIn 1994, while on a year's leave of absence from \"The Nation\", he served first as a fellow at the Institute of Politics at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government and then as a senior fellow at the Freedom Forum Media Studies Center at Columbia University. When he returned to \"The Nation\", he led a group of investors in buying the magazine, and became its publisher.\n\nNavasky has also served as a Guggenheim Fellow, a visiting scholar at the Russell Sage Foundation and Ferris Visiting Professor of Journalism at Princeton University. He has taught at a number of colleges and universities and has contributed articles and reviews to numerous magazines and journals of opinion.\n\nIn addition to his \"Nation\" responsibilities, Navasky is also Director of the George T. Delacorte Center for Magazine Journalism at Columbia University, a member of the Board of Independent Diplomat, and a regular commentator on the public radio program Marketplace.\n\nIn 2005, Navasky was named chairman of the \"Columbia Journalism Review\" (CJR). This appointment engendered some controversy; as Navasky's name did not appear on the masthead, critics on the political right saw this as hiding that, despite the magazine's purported lack of political bias, a \"major left-wing polemicist is calling the shots at CJR without any mention on the masthead.\"\n\nIn 2005, Navasky received the George Polk Book Award given annually by Long Island University to honor contributions to journalistic integrity and investigative reporting. He serves on the boards of the Authors Guild, International PEN and the Committee to Protect Journalists.\n\nNavasky, who has three children, lives in New York City, with his wife, Anne (Strongin) Navasky.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8618186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8618186", "title": "Walter Laird", "text": "Walter Laird\n\nWalter William Laird (26 July 1920 – 30 May 2002) was a major influence in the development of Latin American dancing in Britain after the Second World War. He was World Professional Latin Dance Champion three times. He coached many successful dancers including Allan Tornsberg, Vibeke Toft, Espen Salberg, Jukka Haapalainen, Sirpa Suutari and Donnie Burns, Peter Maxwell & Lynn Harman were amongst his first major champions and a couple on which much of his ultimate technique was developed. Laird was a Fellow and Examiner of the IDTA, and until 2000, he was Secretary (and later President) of the Ballroom Dancers' Federation.\n\nLaird first danced with his sister Joan in the 1930s. His professional partner during the war and after was Andé Lyons (née Ashcroft, and subsequently Andé Tyrer). They met when Andé was sent to the Royal Aircraft Establishment, Farnborough as a shorthand typist. One day she took dictation from Walter Laird, who was a scientist working there. At the end of the dictation, he asked her if she was keen on dancing. \n\nThe Laird–Lyons partnership was entirely traditional ballroom dancing. Laird did not switch to Latin until some time after the war. Laird's three world championships (1962–1964) were in partnership with Lorraine Reynolds (now Rohdin), known professionally as 'Lorraine'. Later Walter married Julie, who continues the dance school in South London. One of Laird's greatest achievements was his \"Technique of Latin dancing\", first published in 1961; further editions in 1964, 1972, 1977, 1983, 1988, 2003. Initially Laird followed the traditional descriptive format, but in 1972 edition he published the results of a major analysis of Latin dance, and used a tabular form, including a column for 'action used' to help definition. This edition was widely influential, and has since been accepted by many dance teacher organisations as a definitive work.\n\n"}
{"id": "21894890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21894890", "title": "Wendell E. Dunn", "text": "Wendell E. Dunn\n\nWendell Earl Dunn, Sr. (born October 5, 1894, near Summit, South Dakota; died July 26, 1965, Baltimore, Maryland, age 70) was a noted educator, longtime principal of Forest Park High School in Baltimore (1935–1961), and President of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools.\n\nWendell Dunn was the son of Moncena and Lois Woodward Dunn. Moncena Dunn (1867–1944) was a farmer, optometrist, and inventor of the patented Dunn Ballot (fraud-proof coupon ballot). After a boyhood on a prairie homestead near Summit, South Dakota, Wendell Dunn earned an A.B. in transportation from the University of Wisconsin in 1916. He helped pay his way through college playing professional baseball as a second baseman in the Three-I League and as a cornetist and violinist in musical ensembles. He began his career in education after serving in the Army in World War I, during which time he attended officers candidate school. His first school post was as a high school science teacher in Pierre, South Dakota, from 1918 to 1919. During that time he supplemented his income by ghostwriting speeches for state legislators, sometimes penning remarks on both sides of a debate question. Dunn then served as superintendent of the Blunt, South Dakota, school district for four years before beginning a seven-year tenure as principal of the Aberdeen, South Dakota Senior High School. From 1924 to 1930 he was a professor of economics and American history at the Black Hills Teachers College in Spearfish, South Dakota. In 1927 he earned his M.A. in education from the University of Wisconsin. He moved to Baltimore in 1931. He had studied during summer 1921 at the Johns Hopkins University.\n\nDunn served in the Baltimore City School System for 30 of the 43 years he was an educator. The head of numerous local and regional educational groups, he was a vice principal of Baltimore City College and principal of Patterson Senior High before assuming the post at Forest Park in 1935. In 1938, he was elected president of the Maryland State Teachers' Association.\n\nOn November 25, 1955, Dunn was elected president of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, the first principal of a public high school to receive this honor. He was named by educators from New York, Maryland, New Jersey, Delaware and the District of Columbia at the opening session of the organization's sixty-ninth annual convention.\n\nDunn died July 26, 1965, after a long illness, four days after the death of his wife. He had made a lasting impression on the lives of many of his students. One wrote, Whatever the subject he touched upon, he seemed to go to its core. He spoke our language—with us, never down to us—raising us with his ease and flow of words to an understanding of the ethics and responsibilities that awaited us even as young adults. We are widely scattered today, but wherever we are, we hold the memory of a man who helped to give us direction, who earned the respect and esteem of his students, a mentor to thousands who stand a little straighter because of his guidance.\n\nHe was the brother of civil engineer Everett Dunn.\n"}
{"id": "3307634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3307634", "title": "Winifred Ward", "text": "Winifred Ward\n\nWinifred Louise Ward (October 29, 1884August 16, 1975) was a professor at Northwestern University most notable for having done significant work in the field of children's theatre and pioneering the idea of creative dramatics.\n\nWinifred Louise Ward was born October 29, 1884 in Eldora, Iowa, the youngest daughter of Frances Allena \"Dimmick\" and George W. Ward, a prominent Eldora lawyer. While growing up, she spent many summers in Washington, D.C., where she was afforded the opportunity to watch theatrical performances that influenced her throughout her career. She received her bachelor's degree in 1905 from Northwestern University, under the guidance of Robert McClean Cumnock. She then returned to her hometown where she directed plays until becoming a teacher of reading, drama and physical education in the public schools of Adrian, Michigan from 1908 to 1916. In 1918, after receiving her Ph.D. in Education from the University of Chicago, Ward accepted an appointment to the faculty of Northwestern’s School of Oratory (Communications). She remained at Northwestern for the rest of her long and distinguished career.\n\nWard founded the field of Creative Drama, a classroom teaching method that places a heavy emphasis on self-expression, literature appreciation, and proficiency in spoken English. It is noted for having a complete lack of scripts. In her own words, \"instead of memorizing set speeches and acting parts in the way the teacher directs, the children develop plays out of their own thoughts and imaginations and emotions\". When Winifred Ward first started working with Creative Drama, she used the phrase \"Creative Dramatics\" which is now less often used.\n\nWinifred Ward is often dubbed the mother of creative drama; the “systematic approach to dramatic activity and learning.”\n\nIn 1924, Ward was appointed supervisor of the newly created creative dramatics curricula of the Evanston Public Schools. The next year Ward founded The Children’s Theatre of Evanston, created with “double purpose of providing a worthy service to Evanston and giving the Speech students a laboratory in the study of theater for youth.” In 1944 she organized the first national Children’s Theater Conference, which later became the American Alliance for Theatre and Education (AATE).\n\nWard retired as an assistant professor from Northwestern in 1950. For the next twenty years, she wrote, taught drama workshops around the country, and participated in numerous conferences and conventions related to her field. She died in Evanston, Illinois on August 16, 1975.\n\nRooted in the progressive education movement of the 1930s, Ward sought to educate the whole child, with the notion that, “the child could achieve an understanding of self and society.” Ward’s method emphasizes storytelling that grows from nonverbal movement and pantomime, eventually becoming dialogue and characterization and ultimately an integrated drama. Stories told from literature, popular culture, poems, and fairy tales are a hallmark of Ward’s work. Ward emphasized the study of characters as a vital phase for understanding multiple perspectives both in drama and in life. Her workshops often culminated in informal performances for invited guests. Ward believed that creative drama was one way to create productive members of a democratic society.\n\nWard wrote four books:\n\nWard also wrote two pamphlets:\n\nWard received honorary degrees and awards from numerous universities and organizations, including:\n\nIn her honor, several awards are given out by the AATE:\n"}
{"id": "1464093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464093", "title": "World Poetry Day", "text": "World Poetry Day\n\nWorld Poetry Day is celebrated on 21 March, and was declared by UNESCO (the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization) in 1999. Its purpose is to promote the reading, writing, publishing and teaching of poetry throughout the world and, as the original UNESCO declaration says, to \"give fresh recognition and impetus to national, regional and international poetry movements\".\n\nIt was generally celebrated in October, but in the latter part of the 20th century the world community celebrated it on the 15th, the birthday of Virgil, the Roman epic poet and poet laureate under Augustus. The tradition to keep an October date for national or international poetry day celebrations still holds in many countries. The United Kingdom generally uses the first Thursday in October, which in 2018 falls on October 4, but elsewhere a different October, or even sometimes a November date, is celebrated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46250127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46250127", "title": "World Possible", "text": "World Possible\n\nWorld Possible is a non-profit organization based in California with a mission to connect offline learners to the world's knowledge. World Possible makes and distributes RACHEL (Remote Area Community Hotspot for Education and Learning), a server/router that hosts offline free educational content such as Khan Academy, Wikipedia, Project Gutenberg and others via Wi-Fi on a Raspberry Pi or Intel CAP computer. RACHEL is designed so that students or schools that do not have internet connections, but may already have devices (such as cellphones, tablets, laptops or desktops) that can receive data via wi-fi, can access educational content via RACHEL as a server. Content has been tailored to meet locally-relevant demand.\n"}
