{"id": "12760901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12760901", "title": "Aborigines Advancement League", "text": "Aborigines Advancement League\n\nThe Aborigines Advancement League (also known as the Aboriginal Advancement League) claims to be the oldest Aboriginal organisation in Australia. It is primarily concerned with Aboriginal welfare issues and the preservation of Aboriginal culture and heritage, and is based in Melbourne.\n\nThe League was established in 1957 as a response to an enquiry by retired magistrate, Charles McLean, into the circumstances of Aboriginal Victorians. McLean was critical of conditions in the Lake Tyers and Framlingham Aboriginal Reserves. McLean recommended that persons of mixed Aboriginal and European descent be removed from the reserves. The people of Lake Tyers objected to this, and the League was formed out of their campaign.\n\nThe new League drew from two already existing organisations, the Australian Aborigines League, established 1934 and the Save the Aborigines Committee, which had been established in 1955 as a response to the Warburton Ranges crisis. Founding President of the League was Gordon Bryant, with Doris Blackburn as Deputy President, Stan Davey as Secretary and Douglas Nicholls as Field Officer.\n\nEarly activities included lobbying for a referendum to change the Australian constitution to allow the Federal government to legislate on Aboriginal affairs, and an establishing a legal defence fund for Albert Namatjira, after he was charged with supplying liquor to an Aboriginal ward. By 1967 it had moved to being fully controlled by Aboriginal people with Bill Onus as the first Aboriginal President.\n\nThe League provides a number of services to Koorie people, including family support, food assistance, home visits, advocacy, counselling and educational programs, drug and alcohol awareness and funeral services. It also has a Cultural Unit that provides information and speakers for schools.\n\nIn 1999 the Victorian government completed a $2,790,000 renovation of the Leagues headquarters in Watt St., Thornbury. As well as providing a community facility, the building houses a museum and \"keeping place\" for items of historical, cultural and spiritual importance to Aboriginal people.\n"}
{"id": "52684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52684", "title": "Ancient Greek architecture", "text": "Ancient Greek architecture\n\nThe architecture of ancient Greece is the architecture produced by the Greek-speaking people (\"Hellenic\" people) whose culture flourished on the Greek mainland, the Peloponnese, the Aegean Islands, and in colonies in Anatolia and Italy for a period from about 900 BC until the 1st century AD, with the earliest remaining architectural works dating from around 600 BC.\n\nAncient Greek architecture is best known from its temples, many of which are found throughout the region, and the parthenon is a prime example of this, mostly as ruins but many substantially intact. The second important type of building that survives all over the Hellenic world is the open-air theatre, with the earliest dating from around 525-480 BC. Other architectural forms that are still in evidence are the processional gateway (\"propylon\"), the public square (\"agora\") surrounded by storied colonnade (\"stoa\"), the town council building (\"bouleuterion\"), the public monument, the monumental tomb (\"mausoleum\") and the \"stadium\".\n\nAncient Greek architecture is distinguished by its highly formalised characteristics, both of structure and decoration. This is particularly so in the case of temples where each building appears to have been conceived as a sculptural entity within the landscape, most often raised on high ground so that the elegance of its proportions and the effects of light on its surfaces might be viewed from all angles. Nikolaus Pevsner refers to \"the plastic shape of the [Greek] temple ... placed before us with a physical presence more intense, more alive than that of any later building\".\n\nThe formal vocabulary of ancient Greek architecture, in particular the division of architectural style into three defined orders: the Doric Order, the Ionic Order and the Corinthian Order, was to have profound effect on Western architecture of later periods. The architecture of ancient Rome grew out of that of Greece and maintained its influence in Italy unbroken until the present day. From the Renaissance, revivals of Classicism have kept alive not only the precise forms and ordered details of Greek architecture, but also its concept of architectural beauty based on balance and proportion. The successive styles of Neoclassical architecture and Greek Revival architecture followed and adapted Ancient Greek styles closely. \n\nThe mainland and islands of Greece are very rocky, with deeply indented coastline, and rugged mountain ranges with few substantial forests. The most freely available building material is stone. Limestone was readily available and easily worked. There is an abundance of high quality white marble both on the mainland and islands, particularly Paros and Naxos. This finely grained material was a major contributing factor to precision of detail, both architectural and sculptural, that adorned ancient Greek architecture. Deposits of high quality potter's clay were found throughout Greece and the Islands, with major deposits near Athens. It was used not only for pottery vessels, but also roof tiles and architectural decoration.\n\nThe climate of Greece is maritime, with both the coldness of winter and the heat of summer tempered by sea breezes. This led to a lifestyle where many activities took place outdoors. Hence temples were placed on hilltops, their exteriors designed as a visual focus of gatherings and processions, while theatres were often an enhancement of a naturally occurring sloping site where people could sit, rather than a containing structure. Colonnades encircling buildings, or surrounding courtyards provided shelter from the sun and from sudden winter storms.\n\nThe light of Greece may be another important factor in the development of the particular character of ancient Greek architecture. The light is often extremely bright, with both the sky and the sea vividly blue. The clear light and sharp shadows give a precision to the details of landscape, pale rocky outcrops and seashore. This clarity is alternated with periods of haze that varies in colour to the light on it. In this characteristic environment, the ancient Greek architects constructed buildings that were marked by precision of detail. The gleaming marble surfaces were smooth, curved, fluted, or ornately sculpted to reflect the sun, cast graded shadows and change in colour with the ever-changing light of day.\n\nHistorians divide ancient Greek civilization into two eras, the Hellenic period (from around 900 BC to the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC), and the Hellenistic period (323 BC to 30 AD). During the earlier Hellenic period, substantial works of architecture began to appear around 600 BC. During the later (Hellenistic) period, Greek culture spread widely, initially as a result of Alexander's conquest of other lands, and later as a result of the rise of the Roman Empire, which adopted much of Greek culture.\n\nBefore the Hellenic era, two major cultures had dominated the region: the Minoan (c. 2800–1100 BC), and the Mycenaean (c. 1500–1100 BC). Minoan is the name given by modern historians to the culture of the people of ancient Crete, known for its elaborate and richly decorated palaces, and for its pottery painted with floral and marine motifs. The Mycenaean culture, which flourished on the Peloponnesus, was quite different in character. Its people built citadels, fortifications and tombs rather than palaces, and decorated their pottery with bands of marching soldiers rather than octopus and seaweed. Both these civilizations came to an end around 1100 BC, that of Crete possibly because of volcanic devastation, and that of Mycenae because of an invasion by the Dorian people who lived on the Greek mainland. Following these events, there was a period from which few signs of culture remain. This period is thus often referred to as a Dark Age.\n\nThe art history of the Hellenic era is generally subdivided into four periods: the Protogeometric (1100–900 BC), the Geometric (900–700 BC), the Archaic (700–500 BC) and the Classical (500–323 BC) with sculpture being further divided into Severe Classical, High Classical and Late Classical. The first signs of the particular artistic character that defines ancient Greek architecture are to be seen in the pottery of the Dorian Greeks from the 10th century BC. Already at this period it is created with a sense of proportion, symmetry and balance not apparent in similar pottery from Crete and Mycenae. The decoration is precisely geometric, and ordered neatly into zones on defined areas of each vessel. These qualities were to manifest themselves not only through a millennium of Greek pottery making, but also in the architecture that was to emerge in the 6th century. The major development that occurred was in the growing use of the human figure as the major decorative motif, and the increasing surety with which humanity, its mythology, activities and passions were depicted.\n\nThe development in the depiction of the human form in pottery was accompanied by a similar development in sculpture. The tiny stylised bronzes of the Geometric period gave way to life-sized highly formalised monolithic representation in the Archaic period. The Classical period was marked by a rapid development towards idealised but increasingly lifelike depictions of gods in human form. This development had a direct effect on the sculptural decoration of temples, as many of the greatest extant works of ancient Greek sculpture once adorned temples, and many of the largest recorded statues of the age, such as the lost chryselephantine statues of Zeus at the Temple of Zeus at Olympia and Athena at the Parthenon, Athens, both over 40 feet high, were once housed in them.\n\nThe religion of ancient Greece was a form of nature worship that grew out of the beliefs of earlier cultures. However, unlike earlier cultures, man was no longer perceived as being threatened by nature, but as its sublime product. The natural elements were personified as gods of completely human form, and very human behaviour.\n\nThe home of the gods was thought to be Olympus, the highest mountain in Greece. The most important deities were: Zeus, the supreme god and ruler of the sky; Hera, his wife and goddess of marriage; Athena, goddess of wisdom; Poseidon, god of the sea; Demeter, goddess of the harvest; Apollo, god of the sun, law, healing, plague, reason, music and poetry; Artemis, goddess of the moon, the hunt and the wilderness; Aphrodite, goddess of love; Ares, God of war; Hermes, god of commerce and travelers, Hephaestus, god of fire and metalwork, and Dionysus, god of wine and fruit-bearing plants. Worship, like many other activities, was done in community, in the open. However, by 600 BC, the gods were often represented by large statues and it was necessary to provide a building in which each of these could be housed. This led to the development of temples.\n\nThe ancient Greeks perceived order in the universe, and in turn, applied order and reason to their creations. Their humanist philosophy put mankind at the centre of things, and promoted well-ordered societies and the development of democracy. At the same time, the respect for human intellect demanded reason, and promoted a passion for enquiry, logic, challenge, and problem solving. The architecture of the ancient Greeks, and in particular, temple architecture, responds to these challenges with a passion for beauty, and for order and symmetry which is the product of a continual search for perfection, rather than a simple application of a set of working rules.\n\nThere is a clear division between the architecture of the preceding Mycenaean culture and Minoan cultures and that of the ancient Greeks, the techniques and an understanding of their style being lost when these civilisations fell.\n\nMycenaean art is marked by its circular structures and tapered domes with flat-bedded, cantilevered courses. This architectural form did not carry over into the architecture of ancient Greece, but reappeared about 400 BC in the interior of large monumental tombs such as the Lion Tomb at Cnidos (c. 350 BC). Little is known of Mycenaean wooden or domestic architecture and any continuing traditions that may have flowed into the early buildings of the Dorian people.\n\nThe Minoan architecture of Crete, was of trabeated form like that of ancient Greece. It employed wooden columns with capitals, but the columns were of very different form to Doric columns, being narrow at the base and splaying upward. The earliest forms of columns in Greece seem to have developed independently. As with Minoan architecture, ancient Greek domestic architecture centred on open spaces or courtyards surrounded by colonnades. This form was adapted to the construction of hypostyle halls within the larger temples. The evolution that occurred in architecture was towards public building, first and foremost the temple, rather than towards grand domestic architecture such as had evolved in Crete.\n\nThe Greek word for the family or household, oikos, is also the name for the house. Houses followed several different types. It is probable that many of the earliest houses were simple structures of two rooms, with an open porch or \"pronaos\" above which rose a low pitched gable or pediment. This form is thought to have contributed to temple architecture.\n\nThe construction of many houses employed walls of sun dried clay bricks or wooden framework filled with fibrous material such as straw or seaweed covered with clay or plaster, on a base of stone which protected the more vulnerable elements from damp. The roofs were probably of thatch with eaves which overhung the permeable walls. Many larger houses, such as those at Delos, were built of stone and plastered. The roofing material for substantial house was tile. Houses of the wealthy had mosaic floors and demonstrated the Classical style.\n\nMany houses centred on a wide passage or \"pasta\" which ran the length of the house and opened at one side onto a small courtyard which admitted light and air. Larger houses had a fully developed peristyle courtyard at the centre, with the rooms arranged around it. Some houses had an upper floor which appears to have been reserved for the use of the women of the family.\n\nCity houses were built with adjoining walls and were divided into small blocks by narrow streets. Shops were sometimes located in the rooms towards the street. City houses were inward-facing, with major openings looking onto the central courtyard, rather than the street.\nThe rectangular temple is the most common and best-known form of Greek public architecture. This rectilinear structure borrows from the Late Helladic, Mycenaean Megaron, which contained a central throne room, vestibule, and porch. The temple did not serve the same function as a modern church, since the altar stood under the open sky in the temenos or sacred precinct, often directly before the temple. Temples served as the location of a cult image and as a storage place or strong room for the treasury associated with the cult of the god in question, and as a place for devotees of the god to leave their votive offerings, such as statues, helmets and weapons. Some Greek temples appear to have been oriented astronomically. The temple was generally part of a religious precinct known as the \"acropolis\". According to Aristotle, '\"the site should be a spot seen far and wide, which gives good elevation to virtue and towers over the neighbourhood\". Small circular temples, \"tholos\" were also constructed, as well as small temple-like buildings that served as treasuries for specific groups of donors.\nDuring the late 5th and 4th centuries BC, town planning became an important consideration of Greek builders, with towns such as Paestum and Priene being laid out with a regular grid of paved streets and an \"agora\" or central market place surrounded by a colonnade or \"stoa\". The completely restored Stoa of Attalos can be seen in Athens. Towns were also equipped with a public fountain where water could be collected for household use. The development of regular town plans is associated with Hippodamus of Miletus, a pupil of Pythagoras.\n\nPublic buildings became \"dignified and gracious structures\", and were sited so that they related to each other architecturally. The propylon or porch, formed the entrance to temple sanctuaries and other significant sites with the best-surviving example being the Propylaea on the Acropolis of Athens. The bouleuterion was a large public building with a \"hypostyle\" hall that served as a court house and as a meeting place for the town council (boule). Remnants of bouleuterion survive at Athens, Olympia and Miletus, the latter having held up to 1200 people.\n\nEvery Greek town had an open-air theatre. These were used for both public meetings as well as dramatic performances. The theatre was usually set in a hillside outside the town, and had rows of tiered seating set in a semicircle around the central performance area, the \"orchestra\". Behind the orchestra was a low building called the \"skênê\", which served as a store-room, a dressing-room, and also as a backdrop to the action taking place in the orchestra. A number of Greek theatres survive almost intact, the best known being at Epidaurus, by the architect Polykleitos the Younger.\n\nGreek towns of substantial size also had a palaestra or a gymnasium, the social centre for male citizens which included spectator areas, baths, toilets and club rooms. Other buildings associated with sports include the \"hippodrome\" for horse racing, of which only remnants have survived, and the \"stadium\" for foot racing, 600 feet in length, of which examples exist at Olympia, Delphi, Epidarus and Ephesus, while the Panathinaiko Stadium in Athens, which seats 45,000 people, was restored in the 19th century and was used in the 1896, 1906 and 2004 Olympic Games.\n\nThe architecture of ancient Greece is of a trabeated or \"post and lintel\" form, i.e. it is composed of upright beams (posts) supporting horizontal beams (lintels). Although the existent buildings of the era are constructed in stone, it is clear that the origin of the style lies in simple wooden structures, with vertical posts supporting beams which carried a ridged roof. The posts and beams divided the walls into regular compartments which could be left as openings, or filled with sun dried bricks, lathes or straw and covered with clay daub or plaster. Alternately, the spaces might be filled with rubble. It is likely that many early houses and temples were constructed with an open porch or \"pronaos\" above which rose a low pitched gable or pediment.\n\nThe earliest temples, built to enshrine statues of deities, were probably of wooden construction, later replaced by the more durable stone temples many of which are still in evidence today. The signs of the original timber nature of the architecture were maintained in the stone buildings.\n\nA few of these temples are very large, with several, such as the Temple of Zeus Olympus and the Olympians at Athens being well over 300 feet in length, but most were less than half this size. It appears that some of the large temples began as wooden constructions in which the columns were replaced piecemeal as stone became available. This, at least was the interpretation of the historian Pausanias looking at the Temple of Hera at Olympia in the 2nd century AD.\n\nThe stone columns are made of a series of solid stone cylinders or \"drums\" that rest on each other without mortar, but were sometimes centred with a bronze pin. The columns are wider at the base than at the top, tapering with an outward curve known as \"entasis\". Each column has a capital of two parts, the upper, on which rests the lintels, being square and called the \"abacus\". The part of the capital that rises from the column itself is called the \"echinus\". It differs according to the order, being plain in the Doric Order, fluted in the Ionic and foliate in the Corinthian. Doric and usually Ionic capitals are cut with vertical grooves known as \"fluting\". This fluting or grooving of the columns is a retention of an element of the original wooden architecture.\n\nThe columns of a temple support a structure that rises in two main stages, the entablature and the pediment.\n\nThe entablature is the major horizontal structural element supporting the roof and encircling the entire building. It is composed of three parts. Resting on the columns is the architrave made of a series of stone \"lintels\" that spanned the space between the columns, and meet each other at a joint directly above the centre of each column.\n\nAbove the architrave is a second horizontal stage called the \"frieze\". The frieze is one of the major decorative elements of the building and carries a sculptured relief. In the case of Ionic and Corinthian architecture, the relief decoration runs in a continuous band, but in the Doric Order, it is divided into sections called \"metopes\" which fill the spaces between vertical rectangular blocks called \"triglyphs\". The triglyphs are vertically grooved like the Doric columns, and retain the form of the wooden beams that would once have supported the roof.\n\nThe upper band of the entablature is called the \"cornice\", which is generally ornately decorated on its lower edge. The cornice retains the shape of the beams that would once have supported the wooden roof at each end of the building. At the front and rear of each temple, the entablature supports a triangular structure called the \"pediment\". The triangular space framed by the cornices is the location of the most significant sculptural decoration on the exterior of the building.\n\nEvery temple rested on a masonry base called the crepidoma, generally of three steps, of which the upper one which carried the columns was the \"stylobate\". Masonry walls were employed for temples from about 600 BC onwards. Masonry of all types was used for ancient Greek buildings, including rubble, but the finest ashlar masonry was usually employed for temple walls, in regular courses and large sizes to minimise the joints. The blocks were rough hewn and hauled from quarries to be cut and bedded very precisely, with mortar hardly ever being used. Blocks, particularly those of columns and parts of the building bearing loads were sometimes fixed in place or reinforced with iron clamps, dowels and rods of wood, bronze or iron fixed in lead to minimise corrosion.\n\nDoor and window openings were spanned with a lintel, which in a stone building limited the possible width of the opening. The distance between columns was similarly affected by the nature of the lintel, columns on the exterior of buildings and carrying stone lintels being closer together than those on the interior, which carried wooden lintels. Door and window openings narrowed towards the top. Temples were constructed without windows, the light to the naos entering through the door. It has been suggested that some temples were lit from openings in the roof. A door of the Ionic Order at the Erechtheion (17 feet high and 7.5 feet wide at the top) retains many of its features intact, including mouldings, and an entablature supported on console brackets. \n\nThe widest span of a temple roof was across the cella, or internal space. In a large building, this space contains columns to support the roof, the architectural form being known as hypostyle. It appears that, although the architecture of ancient Greece was initially of wooden construction, the early builders did not have the concept of the diagonal truss as a stabilising member. This is evidenced by the nature of temple construction in the 6th century BC, where the rows of columns supporting the roof the cella rise higher than the outer walls, unnecessary if roof trusses are employed as an integral part of the wooden roof. The indication is that initially all the rafters were supported directly by the entablature, walls and hypostyle, rather than on a trussed wooden frame, which came into use in Greek architecture only in the 3rd century BC.\n\nAncient Greek buildings of timber, clay and plaster construction were probably roofed with thatch. With the rise of stone architecture came the appearance of fired ceramic roof tiles. These early roof tiles showed an S-shape, with the pan and cover tile forming one piece. They were much larger than modern roof tiles, being up to long, wide, thick and weighing around apiece. Only stone walls, which were replacing the earlier mudbrick and wood walls, were strong enough to support the weight of a tiled roof.\n\nThe earliest finds of roof tiles of the Archaic period in Greece are documented from a very restricted area around Corinth, where fired tiles began to replace thatched roofs at the temples of Apollo and Poseidon between 700 and 650 BC. Spreading rapidly, roof tiles were within fifty years in evidence for a large number of sites around the Eastern Mediterranean, including Mainland Greece, Western Asia Minor, Southern and Central Italy. Being more expensive and labour-intensive to produce than thatch, their introduction has been explained by the fact that their fireproof quality would have given desired protection to the costly temples. As a side-effect, it has been assumed that the new stone and tile construction also ushered in the end of overhanging eaves in Greek architecture, as they made the need for an extended roof as rain protection for the mudbrick walls obsolete.\n\nVaults and arches were not generally used, but begin to appear in tombs (in a \"beehive\" or cantilevered form such as used in Mycenaea) and occasionally, as an external feature, exedrae of voussoired construction from the 5th century BC. The dome and vault never became significant structural features, as they were to become in ancient Roman architecture.\n\nMost ancient Greek temples were rectangular, and were approximately twice as long as they were wide, with some notable exceptions such as the enormous Temple of Olympian Zeus, Athens with a length of nearly 2½ times its width. A number of surviving temple-like structures are circular, and are referred to as \"tholos\". The smallest temples are less than 25 metres (approx. 75 feet) in length, or in the case of the circular \"tholos\", in diameter. The great majority of temples are between 30–60 metres (approx. 100–200 feet) in length. A small group of Doric temples, including the Parthenon, are between 60–80 metres (approx. 200–260 feet) in length. The largest temples, mainly Ionic and Corinthian, but including the Doric Temple of the Olympian Zeus, Agrigento, were between 90–120 metres (approx. 300–390 feet) in length.\n\nThe temple rises from a stepped base or \"stylobate\", which elevates the structure above the ground on which it stands. Early examples, such as the Temple of Zeus at Olympus, have two steps, but the majority, like the Parthenon, have three, with the exceptional example of the Temple of Apollo at Didyma having six. The core of the building is a masonry-built \"naos\" within which is a cella, a windowless room originally housing the statue of the god. The cella generally has a porch or \"pronaos\" before it, and perhaps a second chamber or \"antenaos\" serving as a treasury or repository for trophies and gifts. The chambers were lit by a single large doorway, fitted with a wrought iron grill. Some rooms appear to have been illuminated by skylights.\n\nOn the stylobate, often completely surrounding the naos, stand rows of columns. Each temple is defined as being of a particular type, with two terms: one describing the number of columns across the entrance front, and the other defining their distribution.\n\nExamples:\n\nThe ideal of proportion that was used by ancient Greek architects in designing temples was not a simple mathematical progression using a square module. The math involved a more complex geometrical progression, the so-called \"Golden mean\". The ratio is similar to that of the growth patterns of many spiral forms that occur in nature such as rams' horns, nautilus shells, fern fronds, and vine tendrils and which were a source of decorative motifs employed by ancient Greek architects as particularly in evidence in the volutes of capitals of the Ionic and Corinthian Orders.\n\nThe ancient Greek architects took a philosophic approach to the rules and proportions. The determining factor in the mathematics of any notable work of architecture was its ultimate appearance. The architects calculated for perspective, for the optical illusions that make edges of objects appear concave and for the fact that columns that are viewed against the sky look different from those adjacent that are viewed against a shadowed wall. Because of these factors, the architects adjusted the plans so that the major lines of any significant building are rarely straight.\nThe most obvious adjustment is to the profile of columns, which narrow from base to top. However, the narrowing is not regular, but gently curved so that each columns appears to have a slight swelling, called \"entasis\" below the middle. The \"entasis\" is never sufficiently pronounced as to make the swelling wider than the base; it is controlled by a slight reduction in the rate of decrease of diameter.\n\nThe Parthenon, the Temple to the Goddess Athena on the Acropolis in Athens, is referred to by many as the pinnacle of ancient Greek architecture. Helen Gardner refers to its \"unsurpassable excellence\", to be surveyed, studied and emulated by architects of later ages. Yet, as Gardner points out, there is hardly a straight line in the building. Banister Fletcher calculated that the \"stylobate\" curves upward so that its centres at either end rise about 2.6 inches above the outer corners, and 4.3 inches on the longer sides. A slightly greater adjustment has been made to the entablature. The columns at the ends of the building are not vertical but are inclined towards the centre, with those at the corners being out of plumb by about 2.6 inches. These outer columns are both slightly wider than their neighbours and are slightly closer than any of the others.\n\nAncient Greek architecture of the most formal type, for temples and other public buildings, is divided stylistically into three \"orders\", first described by the Roman architectural writer Vitruvius. These are: the Doric Order, the Ionic Order and the Corinthian Order, the names reflecting their regional origins within the Greek world. While the three orders are most easily recognizable by their capitals, the orders also governed the form, proportions, details and relationships of the columns, entablature, pediment and the stylobate. The different orders were applied to the whole range of buildings and monuments.\n\nThe Doric Order developed on mainland Greece and spread to Magna Graecia (Italy). It was firmly established and well-defined in its characteristics by the time of the building of the Temple of Hera at Olympia, c. 600 BC. The Ionic order co-existed with the Doric, being favoured by the Greek cities of Ionia, in Asia Minor and the Aegean Islands. It did not reach a clearly defined form until the mid 5th century BC. The early Ionic temples of Asia Minor were particularly ambitious in scale, such as the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus. The Corinthian Order was a highly decorative variant not developed until the Hellenistic period and retaining many characteristics of the Ionic. It was popularised by the Romans.\n\nThe Doric order is recognised by its capital, of which the \"echinus\" is like a circular cushion rising from the top of the column to the square \"abacus\" on which rest the lintels. The echinus appears flat and splayed in early examples, deeper and with greater curve in later, more refined examples, and smaller and straight-sided in Hellenistc examples. A refinement of the Doric column is the entasis, a gentle convex swelling to the profile of the column, which prevents an optical illusion of concavity. This is more pronounced in earlier examples.\n\nDoric columns are almost always cut with grooves, known as \"fluting\", which run the length of the column and are usually 20 in number, although sometimes fewer. The flutes meet at sharp edges called \"arrises\". At the top of the columns, slightly below the narrowest point, and crossing the terminating arrises, are three horizontal grooves known as the \"hypotrachelion\". Doric columns have no bases, until a few examples in the Hellenistic period.\n\nThe columns of an early Doric temple such as the Temple of Apollo at Syracuse, Sicily, may have a height to base diameter ratio of only 4:1 and a column height to entablature ratio of 2:1, with relatively crude details. A column height to diameter of 6:1 became more usual, while the column height to entablature ratio at the Parthenon is about 3:1. During the Hellenistic period, Doric conventions of solidity and masculinity dropped away, with the slender and unfluted columns reaching a height to diameter ratio of 7.5:1.\n\nThe Doric entablature is in three parts, the architrave, the frieze and the cornice. The architrave is composed of the stone lintels which span the space between the columns, with a joint occurring above the centre of each abacus. On this rests the frieze, one of the major areas of sculptural decoration. The frieze is divided into \"triglyphs\" and \"metopes\", the triglyphs, as stated elsewhere in this article, are a reminder of the timber history of the architectural style. Each triglyph has three vertical grooves, similar to the columnar fluting, and below them, seemingly connected, are guttae, small strips that appear to connect the triglyphs to the architrave below. A triglyph is located above the centre of each capital, and above the centre of each lintel. However, at the corners of the building, the triglyphs do not fall over the centre the column. The ancient architects took a pragmatic approach to the apparent \"rules\", simply extending the width of the last two metopes at each end of the building.\n\nThe cornice is a narrow jutting band of complex moulding which overhangs and protects the ornamented frieze, like the edge of an overhanging wooden-framed roof. It is decorated on the underside with projecting blocks, \"mutules\", further suggesting the wooden nature of the prototype. At either end of the building the pediment rises from the cornice, framed by moulding of similar form.\n\nThe pediment is decorated with figures that are in relief in the earlier examples, though almost freestanding by the time of the sculpture on the Parthenon. Early architectural sculptors found difficulty in creating satisfactory sculptural compositions in the tapering triangular space. By the Early Classical period, with the decoration of the Temple of Zeus at Olympia, (486-460 BC) the sculptors had solved the problem by having a standing central figure framed by rearing centaurs and fighting men who are falling, kneeling and lying in attitudes that fit the size and angle of each part of the space. The famous sculptor Phidias fills the space at the Parthenon (448-432 BC) with a complex array of draped and undraped figures of deities who appear in attitudes of sublime relaxation and elegance.\n\nThe Ionic Order is recognized by its voluted capital, in which a curved \"echinus\" of similar shape to that of the Doric Order, but decorated with stylised ornament, is surmounted by a horizontal band that scrolls under to either side, forming spirals or \"volutes\" similar to those of the nautilus shell or ram's horn. In plan, the capital is rectangular. It is designed to be viewed frontally but the capitals at the corners of buildings are modified with an additional scroll so as to appear regular on two adjoining faces. In the Hellenistic period, four-fronted Ionic capitals became common.\n\nLike the Doric Order, the Ionic Order retains signs of having its origins in wooden architecture. The horizontal spread of a flat timber plate across the top of a column is a common device in wooden construction, giving a thin upright a wider area on which to bear the lintel, while at the same time reinforcing the load-bearing strength of the lintel itself. Likewise, the columns always have bases, a necessity in wooden architecture to spread the load and protect the base of a comparatively thin upright. The columns are fluted with narrow, shallow flutes that do not meet at a sharp edge but have a flat band or \"fillet\" between them. The usual number of flutes is twenty-four but there may be as many as forty-four. The base has two convex mouldings called \"torus\", and from the late Hellenic period stood on a square plinth similar to the \"abacus\".\n\nThe architrave of the Ionic Order is sometimes undecorated, but more often rises in three outwardly-stepped bands like overlapping timber planks. The frieze, which runs in a continuous band, is separated from the other members by rows of small projecting blocks. They are referred to as \"dentils\", meaning \"teeth\", but their origin is clearly in narrow wooden slats which supported the roof of a timber structure.\nThe Ionic Order is altogether lighter in appearance than the Doric, with the columns, including base and capital, having a 9:1 ratio with the diameter, while the whole entablature was also much narrower and less heavy than the Doric entablature. There was some variation in the distribution of decoration. Formalised bands of motifs such as alternating forms known as \"egg and dart\" were a feature of the Ionic entablatures, along with the bands of \"dentils\". The external frieze often contained a continuous band of figurative sculpture or ornament, but this was not always the case. Sometimes a decorative frieze occurred around the upper part of the \"naos\" rather than on the exterior of the building. These Ionic-style friezes around the \"naos\" are sometimes found on Doric buildings, notably the Parthenon. Some temples, like the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, had friezes of figures around the lower drum of each column, separated from the fluted section by a bold moulding.\n\nCaryatids, draped female figures used as supporting members to carry the entablature, were a feature of the Ionic order, occurring at several buildings including the Siphnian Treasury at Delphi in 525 BC and at the Erechtheion, about 410 BC.\n\nThe Corinthian Order does not have its origin in wooden architecture. It grew directly out of the Ionic in the mid 5th century BC, and was initially of much the same style and proportion, but distinguished by its more ornate capitals. The capital was very much deeper than either the Doric or the Ionic capital, being shaped like a large \"krater\", a bell-shaped mixing bowl, and being ornamented with a double row of acanthus leaves above which rose voluted tendrils, supporting the corners of the abacus, which, no longer perfectly square, splayed above them. According to Vitruvius, the capital was invented by a bronze founder, Callimachus of Corinth, who took his inspiration from a basket of offerings that had been placed on a grave, with a flat tile on top to protect the goods. The basket had been placed on the root of an acanthus plant which had grown up around it. The ratio of the column height to diameter is generally 10:1, with the capital taking up more than 1/10 of the height. The ratio of capital height to diameter is generally about 1.16:1.\n\nThe Corinthian Order was initially used internally, as at the Temple of Apollo Epicurius at Bassae (c. 450–425 BC). In 334 BC it appeared as an external feature on the Choragic Monument of Lysicrates in Athens, and then on a huge scale at the Temple of Zeus Olympia in Athens, (174 BC – AD 132). It was popularised by the Romans, who added a number of refinements and decorative details. During the Hellenistic period, Corinthian columns were sometimes built without fluting.\n\nEarly wooden structures, particularly temples, were ornamented and in part protected by fired and painted clay revetments in the form of rectangular panels, and ornamental discs. Many fragments of these have outlived the buildings that they decorated and demonstrate a wealth of formal border designs of geometric scrolls, overlapping patterns and foliate motifs. With the introduction of stone-built temples, the revetments no longer served a protective purpose and sculptured decoration became more common.\n\nThe clay ornaments were limited to the roof of buildings, decorating the cornice, the corners and surmounting the pediment. At the corners of pediments they were called \"acroteria\" and along the sides of the building, \"antefixes\". Early decorative elements were generally semi-circular, but later of roughly triangular shape with moulded ornament, often palmate. Ionic cornices were often set with a row of lion's masks, with open mouths that ejected rainwater. From the Late Classical period, acroteria were sometimes sculptured figures.\n\nIn the three orders of ancient Greek architecture, the sculptural decoration, be it a simple half round \"astragal\", a frieze of stylised foliage or the ornate sculpture of the pediment, is all essential to the architecture of which it is a part. In the Doric order, there is no variation in its placement. Reliefs never decorate walls in an arbitrary way. The sculpture is always located in several predetermined areas, the metopes and the pediment. In later Ionic architecture, there is greater diversity in the types and numbers of mouldings and decorations, particularly around doorways, where voluted brackets sometimes occur supporting an ornamental cornice over a door, such as that at the Erechtheion. A much applied narrow moulding is called \"bead and reel\" and is symmetrical, stemming from turned wooden prototypes. Wider mouldings include one with tongue-like or pointed leaf shapes, which are grooved and sometimes turned upward at the tip, and \"egg and dart\" moulding which alternates ovoid shapes with narrow pointy ones.\n\nArchitectural sculpture showed a development from early Archaic examples through Severe Classical, High Classical, Late Classical and Hellenistic. Remnants of Archaic architectural sculpture (700–500 BC) exist from the early 6th century BC with the earliest surviving pedimental sculpture being fragments of a Gorgon flanked by heraldic panthers from the centre of the pediment of the Artemis Temple of Corfu. A metope from a temple known as \"Temple C\" at Selinus, Sicily, shows, in a better preserved state, Perseus slaying the Gorgon Medusa. Both images parallel the stylised depiction of the Gorgons on the black figure name vase decorated by the Nessos painter (c. 600 BC), with the face and shoulders turned frontally, and the legs in a running or kneeling position. At this date images of terrifying monsters have predominance over the emphasis on the human figure that developed with Humanist philosophy.\n\nThe Severe Classical style (500–450 BC) is represented by the pedimental sculptures of the Temple of Zeus at Olympia, (470–456 BC). The eastern pediment shows a moment of stillness and \"impending drama\" before the beginning of a chariot race, the figures of Zeus and the competitors being severe and idealised representations of the human form. The western pediment has Apollo as the central figure, \"majestic\" and \"remote\", presiding over a battle of Lapiths and Centaurs, in strong contrast to that of the eastern pediment for its depiction of violent action, and described by D. E. Strong as the \"most powerful piece of illustration\" for a hundred years.\n\nThe shallow reliefs and three-dimensional sculpture which adorned the frieze and pediments, respectively, of the Parthenon, are the lifelike products of the High Classical style (450–400 BC) and were created under the direction of the sculptor Phidias. The pedimental sculpture represents the Gods of Olympus, while the frieze shows the Panathenaic procession and ceremonial events that took place every four years to honour the titular Goddess of Athens. The frieze and remaining figures of the eastern pediment show a profound understanding of the human body, and how it varies depending upon its position and the stresses that action and emotion place upon it. Benjamin Robert Haydon described the reclining figure of Dionysus as \"... the most heroic style of art, combined with all the essential detail of actual life\".\n\nThe names of many famous sculptors are known from the Late Classical period (400–323 BC), including Timotheos, Praxiteles, Leochares and Skopas, but their works are known mainly from Roman copies. Little architectural sculpture of the period remains intact. The Temple of Asclepius at Epidauros had sculpture by Timotheos working with the architect Theodotos. Fragments of the eastern pediment survive, showing the Sack of Troy. The scene appears to have filled the space with figures carefully arranged to fit the slope and shape available, as with earlier east pediment of the Temple of Zeus at Olympus. But the figures are more violent in action, the central space taken up, not with a commanding God, but with the dynamic figure of Neoptolemos as he seizes the aged king Priam and stabs him. The remaining fragments give the impression of a whole range of human emotions, fear, horror, cruelty and lust for conquest. The \"acroteria\" were sculptured by Timotheus, except for that at the centre of the east pediment which is the work of the architect. The palmate acroteria have been replaced here with small figures, the eastern pediment being surmounted by a winged Nike, poised against the wind.\n\nHellenistic architectural sculpture (323–31 BC) was to become more flamboyant, both in the rendering of expression and motion, which is often emphasised by flowing draperies, the Nike Samothrace which decorated a monument in the shape of a ship being a well-known example. The Pergamon Altar (c. 180–160 BC) has a frieze (120 metres long by 2.3 metres high) of figures in very high relief. The frieze represents the battle for supremacy of Gods and Titans, and employs many dramatic devices: frenzy, pathos and triumph, to convey the sense of conflict.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48626507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48626507", "title": "Anti-Austrian sentiment", "text": "Anti-Austrian sentiment\n\nAnti-Austrian sentiment (also known as Austrophobia) refers to hostile sentiment toward the nation of Austria and/or its people.\n\n"}
{"id": "31023245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31023245", "title": "Anti-Pakistan sentiment", "text": "Anti-Pakistan sentiment\n\nAnti-Pakistan sentiment or Pakistan-phobia also known as Pakophobia refers to hatred or hostility towards Pakistan, Pakistanis and Pakistani culture, ranging from criticism of public policies, to fear or an irrational fixation. The opposite of anti-Pakistan sentiment is pro-Pakistan sentiment.\n\nThe Indian state officially rejects the validity of the Two Nation Theory, the notion that Indian Muslims are a distinct 'nation' and needed an independent homeland in South Asia. Nationalists led by Mohandas K. Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru wanted to make what was then British India, as well as the 562 princely states under British paramountcy, into a single secular, democratic state. Hindu nationalists in India support the idea of Akhand Bharat, 'undivided India', and consider the partition of India an illegitimate act. There have been many anti-Pakistan rallies involving the burning or desecration of Pakistani flags. Indian right-wing political parties frequently use anti-Pakistan sentiments to garner votes.\n\nThe slogan \"Death to Pakistan\" (\"Pakistan Murdabad\") was raised by Sikh leader Master Tara Singh in March 1947, soon after the Unionist Party cabinet of Malik Khizar Hayat Tiwana resigned in the Punjab, and immediately after it was announced that the Muslim League would take over the reins of provincial government. The resignation of the Khizar Tiwana government, composed of Muslims, Hindus, and Sikhs, followed the unrest caused by the call for the Direct Action Day by the Muslim League the previous year.\nAccording to historian Stanley Wolpert in \"A New History of India\", when the administration of Punjab was taken over by Muslim League, \"Master Tara Singh, prominent Sikh political and religious leader in the first half of the 20th century, called for direct action by his \"khalsa\" against the League at this time, igniting the powder keg of repressed violence that set the Punjab ablaze with his cry of \"Pakistan Murdabad\" (\"Death to Pakistan\"). Tara Singh and his followers were demanding a Sikh nation of their own, Khalistan, and by demonstrating their willingness to die in defence of their homeland, they sought to prove the validity of their claim.\" This slogan often was followed by religious fights and conflicts.\n\nIn February 2011, the Shiv Sena stated that it would not allow Pakistan to play any 2011 Cricket World Cup matches in Mumbai. Pakistan Hockey Federation also feared of sending the national hockey of Pakistan because of anti-Pakistani sentiment in India. The state of Maharashtra, where Shiv Sena is prominent, has been deemed an unsafe venue for hosting visiting Pakistani teams. Shiv Sena has periodically disrupted cricketing occasions involving the two countries. In 1999, it tampered the pitch at Feroz Shah Kotla Ground to stop a match between the two sides, while during the 2006 Champions Trophy it made threats against hosting Pakistan's matches in Jaipur and Mohali. Post-2008, it has frequently threatened against the resumption of a bilateral Indo-Pakistani cricket series. In October 2015, Shiv Sena activists barged into the headquarters of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in Mumbai, chanting anti-Pakistan slogans and stopping a scheduled meeting between BCCI president Shashank Manohar and the Pakistan Cricket Board's Shahryar Khan and Najam Sethi.\n\nSeveral major Bollywood films have depicted Pakistan in a hostile manner by portraying Pakistanis and the state as a hostile enemy. Other Bollywood movies, however, have been highly popular in Pakistan and India's Bollywood movie star Shah Rukh Khan (whose ancestors come from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa) has advocated India-Pakistan reconciliation. Although Bollywood films were banned for 40 years prior to 2008 because Indian culture was officially viewed as being \"vulgar\", there had been an active black market during the period and little was done to disrupt it.\n\nIn 2012, Raj Thackeray and his party Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) told Indian singer Asha Bhosle not to co-judge in \"Sur Kshetra\", a musical reality show aired on a local television channel that featured Pakistani artists alongside Indians. The MNS threatened to disrupt the shoot among other consequences if the channel went on to air the show. However, amid tight security in a hotel conference, Bhosle played down the threat, saying she only understood the language of music and did not understand politics. In the past, Shiv Sena has disrupted concerts by Pakistani artists in India. In October 2015, Shiv Sena activists assaulted Indian journalist Sudheendra Kulkarni and blackened his face with ink; Kulkarni was due to host a launch event for former Pakistani foreign affairs minister Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri's book in Mumbai. The Shiv Sena have also blocked the screening or promotion of Pakistani films in Indian cinemas, or Indian films starring Pakistani actors, as well as threatening Pakistani artists in Maharashtra.\n\nAccording to one Indian minister, Kiren Rijiju, much of the obsession with Pakistan is limited to North India due to historical and cultural reasons.\n\nMore recently following the Uri attack in 2016, due to which tensions escalated between India and Pakistan, anti-Pakistan sentiments became more pronounced; the Indian Motion Picture Producers’ Association voted to ban Pakistani artists from working in Bollywood.\n\nThe relationship between Bangladesh and Pakistan is affected by past history. Due to political, economic, linguistic and ethnic discrimination by the Pakistani state before independence in 1971, and the atrocities against the Bengalis committed by the Pakistan Army during the Bangladesh Liberation War, some people in Bangladesh abhor everything from Pakistan. The Government of Bangladesh demands a formal apology for those atrocities from the Pakistani head of state, as well as putting on trial former military and political leaders who had played a role in the army action in then East Pakistan. Pakistan has continued to ignore this demand.\n\nIn 2012, Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) abandon a planned cricket tour in Pakistan indefinitely amid fears over players' safety, following protests by Bangladeshis and a Facebook campaign against the visit.\n\nIn response to Pakistan's National Assembly adopting a resolution to condemn Abdul Quader Mollah execution, protests were held outside the Pakistan High Commission.\n\nA 2014 PEW opinion poll found that 50% of Bangladeshis held a positive view of Pakistan.\n\nAfghanistan–Pakistan relations have been negatively affected by issues related to the Durand Line, the 1978–present war (i.e. Mujahideen, Afghan refugees, Taliban insurgency and border skirmishes), including water and the growing influence of India in Afghanistan. Most major attacks in Afghanistan are blamed on neighboring Pakistan and Iran. This makes anti-Pakistan sentiment run high in the country, particularly among the Afghan politicians. In response to Afghan support for Baloch insurgents, since the 1970s onwards, Pakistan supported rebels such as Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Ahmad Shah Massoud, Haqqanis, Taliban, and others against the governments of Afghanistan.\n\nIn the 1990s, Pakistan's support for the Taliban movement led to strong anti-Pakistan sentiments in Afghanistan. According to Pakistan and Afghanistan expert Ahmed Rashid, \"between 1994 and 1999, an estimated 80,000 to 100,000 Pakistanis trained and fought in Afghanistan\" keeping the Taliban regime in power. The role of the Pakistani military during that time has been described by international observers as a \"creeping invasion\" of Afghanistan. UN documents also reveal the role of Arab and Pakistani support troops in Taliban massacre campaigns.\n\nIn the course of the Taliban insurgency anti-Pakistan sentiment was again fuelled after a spate of suicide bombings by the Taliban, which in 2011 and 2012 caused 80% of the civilian casualties in Afghanistan, and which the Afghan government and many international officials claim is supported by Pakistan. Demonstrations in Afghanistan have denounced Pakistan politically for its alleged role in Taliban attacks. Afghan leaders such as Amrullah Saleh or Ahmad Wali Massoud (a younger brother of Ahmad Shah Massoud) have said, that their criticism is directed at the politics of the Pakistani military and not at Pakistan as a country. Both reiterated the distinction by saying that the Pakistani people had been very generous in providing shelter to Afghan refugees but that it was the policy of the Pakistani military which had caused so much suffering to the Afghan people.\n\nAnti-Pakistan sentiment has increased in Afghanistan after hundreds of suicide bombings and assassinations. In 2017 there were mass protests in several Afghan provinces, trying to highlight that Pakistan was a terrorist-sponsoring state.\n\nIn certain Middle Eastern countries, some Middle Easterns have behaved in a somewhat discriminatory and violent manner toward South Asians like Indians, Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, Sri Lankans. In the case of Pakistanis, these attacks are usually carried on darker-skinned individuals versus their lighter-skinned, Iranic counterparts. Middle Easterns youth have also occasionally engaged in violent attacks on South Asian workers.\n\nAfter the July 2005 bombings in London, there were waves of \"Pakistanophobia\" in France. A Pakistani community leader said a \"right-wing newspaper, for instance, launched a ferocious campaign against Pakistanis in France and placed them in one basket, calling them a \"cause for concern.\"\n\nThere has been some anti-Pakistani sentiment in Israel. During the 1965 Indo-Pakistani war, Israel played a major role in convincing the United States not to send weapons to Pakistan, indirectly leading it to impose an embargo on Pakistan. The anniversary of the Indo-Pakistani war of 1971 is regularly marked in Israel with tributes paid to the Indian Armed Forces. \n\nIn 1999, Israeli military personnel helped India develop better planned operations against Pakistan. In an interview with a Russian daily, Israel's Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman described Pakistan as an \"evil empire\", repeating U.S. President Ronald Reagan's choice reference for the Soviet Union. Israeli journalists have also criticized Pakistan's nuclear weapons program.\n\n, the United Kingdom had the largest overseas Pakistani community, who are known as British Pakistanis. There have been periodic ethnic tensions faced by the Pakistani community. The first recorded use of the term \"\"Paki\"\" in a derogatory way was in the United Kingdom. However, the term has also been used for non-Pakistani South Asians. The word is being reclaimed by younger British Pakistanis, who use it themselves although this remains controversial.\n\nBritish Pakistanis were eight times more likely to be victims of a racist attack than White people in 1996. The chances of a Pakistani being racially attacked in a year is more than 4% – the highest rate in the country, along with British Bangladeshis – though this has come down from 8% a year in 1996. According to a 2016 YouGov survey, around 20% of British respondents were against admitting migrants from Pakistan and four other countries.\n\nStarting in the late 1960s, and peaking in the 1970s and 1980s, violent gangs opposed to immigration took part in frequent attacks known as \"Paki-bashing\", which targeted and assaulted Pakistanis and other South Asians. \"Paki-bashing\" was unleashed after Enoch Powell's inflammatory Rivers of Blood speech in 1968, and peaked during the 1970s1980s, with the attacks mainly linked to far-right fascist, racist and anti-immigrant movements, including the white power skinheads, the National Front, and the British National Party (BNP). These attacks were usually referred to as either \"Paki-bashing\" or \"skinhead terror\", with the attackers usually called \"Paki-bashers\" or \"skinheads\". \"Paki-bashing\" was also fueled by the British media's anti-immigrant and anti-Pakistani rhetoric at the time, and by systemic failures of state authorities, which included under-reporting racist attacks, the criminal justice system not taking racist attacks seriously, constant racial harassment by police, and sometimes police involvement in racist violence.\n\nThere runs a profound and deep streak of hate in Greece towards Pakistan and Pakistanis as evidenced by a string of attacks that have taken place on Pakistanis in the country. \n\nPublic opinion polling shows that the United States has the most anti-Pakistan sentiment of any country with 85% expressing a negative view in a 2014 BBC poll. \n\nSince the September 11, 2001 attacks, Pakistani-Americans have been targeted more often in hate crime attacks. Pakistani Americans are subjected to greater scrutiny in airport security checks. Up to 45,000 of the estimated 100,000-strong Pakistani community in New York were deported or left voluntarily following the attacks.\n\nIn 2006, Hasan, a Princeton University graduate, was arrested by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials who allegedly tortured him, accusing him of having ties to Al Qaeda before deporting him to Pakistan. In 2009, his wife formally requested the U.S. Embassy in Islamabad review his case in 2009.\n\nPakistani cable operators have accused foreign news organisations of airing \"anti-Pakistan\" material, according to the BBC. In November 2011 that organisation was itself blocked from view in Pakistan after it broadcast a documentary called \"Secret Pakistan\" in which Pakistan's connections to the Taliban were explored. The BBC noted that while it was officially the action of broadcast operators in the country, \"the Pakistani government is likely to have put pressure on [them] to impose the ban\". The government denied this, saying that it was committed to \"freedom of press and media\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32956430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32956430", "title": "Anumarana", "text": "Anumarana\n\nAnumarana or Anugamana refers to the ancient Indian practice of voluntary death by self-immolation by widowed Hindu women, some time after death of her husband. Anumarana was practiced usually by the widowed wives, when learnt of husband's death at battlefield or elsewhere and he had been already cremated. The widow then resolves to take away her life and immolated herself with husband's ashes or padukas or other such memento. The practice of Anumarana is mentioned in Kamasutra. In Mahabharata, we find mention of Anumarana practiced by widows of Kshatriyas on rare occasions. The practice has been described to be prevalent northern India and had existed before the Gupta empire. As per custom, the Brahmin women were only permitted to die by \"Sahamarana\" and were not allowed the right of \"anumarana\"; however, non-Brahmin women could decide to immolate herself both by \"sahamarana\" or \"anumarana\" Anumarana was not comparable to later understandings of the practice of \"sati\", as in this widows did not self-immolate herself in funeral pyre of her husband. When a widow immolated herself with the husband's dead body, it was called \"Sahamarana\" or \"Sahagamana\"\n\nThe Commission of Sati (Prevention) Act, 1987 Part I, Section 2(c) defines \"Sati\" as the act or rite itself, including both \"sahamarana\" and \"anumarana\". The practice of \"anumarana\" was generally banned by British authorities already in 1826 (with a prior ban for Brahmin widows in 1817), three years prior to the general ban on \"sati\". At least 3 cases of anumarana were recorded in 1826. Nor had such cases been particularly exceptional; Anand Yang documents several cases where the widow immolated herself many years after her husband's death. Just in the Ghazipur district in 1822, for example, 4 widows were reported to commit \"anumarana\" 16–40 years after the deaths of their husbands, one of them throwing herself on the funeral pyre of her son.\n\nAlso the practice of \"anumarana\" was, in earlier times, not restricted to widows — rather, anyone, male or female, with personal loyalty to the deceased could commit suicide at a loved one's funeral. These included the deceased's relatives, servants, followers, or friends. Sometimes these deaths stemmed from vows of loyalty, and is said to have been prevalent in the 11th century CE in north/northwestern India, cases recorded in the 13th century CE as well. At the death in 1839 of the founder of the Sikh Empire, Ranjit Singh, Ranjit Singh's premier minister, Dhyan Singh, declared his commitment to perish in the flames as well. He had to be physically prevented from doing so by the other courtiers, since they felt the Sikh Empire could not manage without Dhyan Singh at this point of crisis in history.\n\n"}
{"id": "45078479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45078479", "title": "BBC Young Dancer", "text": "BBC Young Dancer\n\nBBC Young Dancer is a televised national dance competition, broadcast on BBC Four and BBC Two since 2015. The competition, inspired by the success of the biennal BBC Young Musician of the Year, is designed for British amateur dancers of ballet, contemporary, hip hop and South Asian dance, all of whom must be aged between 16 and 20.\n\nBBC Young Dancer was launched in October 2014 by Director-General of the BBC, Tony Hall and was part of BBC Four's Year of Song and Dance. Cuban ballet dancer Carlos Acosta was the competition's ambassador. On 14 January 2015, ballet dancer and \"Strictly Come Dancing\" judge Darcey Bussell was announced as co-presenter and dance expert for the Grand Final of the inaugural competition, which was aired live from Sadler's Wells Theatre on BBC Two in May. Zoë Ball and Clemency Burton-Hill were her co-hosts. Contemporary dancer Connor Scott won the inaugural competition on 9 May 2015. \n\nThe next competition was held in 2017, contemporary dancer Nafisah Baba was announced as the winner of the overall title on 22 April. The televised grand final was hosted by Bussell, Anita Rani and Ore Oduba.\n"}
{"id": "5535053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5535053", "title": "Baku International Jazz Festival", "text": "Baku International Jazz Festival\n\nThe Baku International Jazz Festival is an annual jazz event organized by saxophonist and Baku resident Rain Sultanov. The festival aims to showcase Azerbaijan's long-running attachment to jazz, a connection established in the country during the 1950s and 1960s when jazz was outlawed by Soviet authorities. The festival has welcomed musicians from Georgia, Portugal, Italy, Israel, United States, Germany, Canada, and Russia.\n\nActs appearing at the inaugural event in April 2005 included the Joe Zawinul Syndicate, Christoph Busse Trio from Germany, and Yakov Okun Quartet from Russia. The fourteen day event included a tribute Azerbaijani jazz musicians Rafig Babayev and his Gaya quartet and pianist Vagif Mustafa Zadeh. At the end of the first festival it was announced that the festival would become an annual event. In 2006 the festival took place from 19 to 27 June and was headlined by Herbie Hancock and Al Jarreau.\n\n"}
{"id": "39087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39087", "title": "Black tie", "text": "Black tie\n\nBlack tie, occasionally known in the English-speaking world by its French name cravate noire, is a dress code for evening events and social functions derived from British and American costume conventions of the 19th century. For men, the principal elements of black tie are a white dress shirt with a black bow tie, an evening waistcoat or cummerbund, and a dinner jacket (called a tuxedo in the United States). For women, an evening gown or other fashionable evening attire may be worn.\n\nTraditionally worn only for events after 6 p.m., black tie is less formal than white tie but more formal than informal or business dress. It may be worn to private and public dinners, balls, and parties.\n\nFor men, the elements of black tie are:\n\nWomen's dress for black tie occasions has varied greatly through the years; traditionally it was:\n\nToday ladies dress for black tie occasions covers a much wider level of formality ranging from just below the white tie standard to something more informal such as a little black dress. Specifically it can also include:\n\nUnlike the men's standard, the specifics of black tie for women are linked to whatever evening wear is currently in fashion.\n\nThe first record of a dinner jacket is an 1865 record in the ledger of Henry Poole & Co, of an order placed by the Prince of Wales and future King Edward VII for a short midnight blue jacket. In the following decades of the Victorian era, the dinner jacket (\"tuxedo\" in American English) came into fashion as a less formal alternative for the tailcoat which men of the upper classes wore every evening. Thus it was worn with the standard accompaniments for the evening tailcoat at the time: matching trousers, white or black waistcoat, white bow tie, white detachable wing-collar formal shirt and black formal shoes. Lapels were often faced or edged in silk or satin in varying widths. Dinner jackets were considered from the first less formal than full dress (cutaway tailcoat) and etiquette guides declared it inappropriate for wear in mixed company.\n\nDuring the Edwardian era, the practice of wearing a black waistcoat and black bow tie with a dinner jacket became the convention, establishing the basis of the current black tie and white tie dress codes. The dinner jacket was also increasingly accepted at less formal evening occasions such as warm-weather gatherings or intimate dinners with friends.\n\nAfter World War I, the dinner jacket became de facto evening wear, while the evening tailcoat was limited to extremely formal or ceremonial occasions. During this interwar period, double-breasted jackets, turndown-collar shirts and cummerbunds became popular for black-tie evenings as did white and colored jackets in warm weather.\n\nIn the decades following World War II, black tie became special occasion attire rather than standard evening wear. In the 1950s, colored and patterned jackets, cummerbunds and bow ties and narrow lapels became very popular; the 1960s and 1970s saw the color palette move from muted to bright day-glow and pastel, as well as ruffled-placket shirts as lapels got wider and piping was revived. The 1980s and 1990s saw a return to nostalgic styles, with black jackets and trousers again becoming nearly universal. The 21st century has seen increased variation and a relaxation of previous strict standards; midnight blue once again became popular and lapel facings were sometimes reduced to wide edging.\n\nTraditionally, black tie (in contrast to formal white tie) was considered informal. In the 21st century black tie is often referred to as being semi-formal.\n\nUnlike white tie, which is very strictly regulated, black-tie ensembles can display more variation. In brief, the traditional components for men are:\n\n\nThe original and most formal model of dinner jacket is the single-breasted model. The typical black-tie jacket is single-breasted with one button only, with jetted (besom) pockets and is of black or midnight blue; usually of wool or a wool–mohair, or wool-polyester blend, although other materials, especially silk, are seen. Although other materials are used, the most appropriate and traditional for the dinner jacket are wool barathea or superfine herringbone. Double breasted models are less common, but considered equally appropriate. Dinner jackets were commonly ventless before World War I, but today come ventless, with side vents, or with center vents. The ventless style is considered more formal, whilst the centre vent is the least formal. The lapels (traditionally pointed and shawl) are usually faced with silk in either a grosgrain or a satin weave, but can also be silk barathea. According to the Black Tie Guide, the peaked lapel and shawl collar are equally authentic and correct. The buttons should be covered in similarly coloured material to the main part of the jacket, which would ideally be either self-faced or covered with the same material as the lapels. Some higher-end single-breasted jackets, both new and vintage, tend to be fastened with a link front closure which is visually similar to a cufflink; this method of closure is still common in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe double-besomed jetted (slit) hip pocket is the only style understated enough to complement the dinner jacket. Flap pockets are not considered appropriate for formal attire's refined minimalism due to their busier and bulkier design and are simply an attempt by tuxedo manufacturers to save money by using standard suit patterns (although sometimes they will trim the edges of a flap pocket so that the flap can be tucked in or removed if desired). Besom welts can be of self fabric or trimmed with the lapel's silk facing, though classic menswear scholar Nicholas Antongiavanni suggests that for the English this latter touch \"is a sure sign of hired clothes.\" The dinner jacket should also have a welt breast pocket to hold a pocket handkerchief, which should generally be self-faced rather than covered with silk. \n\nEmily Post, a resident of Tuxedo Park, New York, stated in 1909 that \"[Tuxedos] can have lapels or be shawl-shaped, in either case they are to have facings of silk, satin or grosgrain.\" She later republished this statement in her 1922 book \"Etiquette\", adding that only single-breasted jackets are appropriately called \"tuxedos\". There is a fashion movement suggesting that a man's appearance when wearing the wider and higher peak lapel is superior to the narrower notch lapel.\nWhite dinner jackets are often worn in warm climates. They are ivory in color rather than pure white, and have self-faced lapels (i.e., made of the same fabric as the jacket) rather than silk-faced lapels. They are generally worn with the same types of shirts and accessories as black dinner jackets, though the turndown collar and cummerbund preferred to the wing collar or waistcoat. Similarly, the shawl lapel is more common in white dinner jackets. In the United Kingdom, the 20th-century etiquette was that white dinner jackets are never worn, even on the hottest day of summer, but are reserved for wear abroad. Today, white dinner jackets are frequently seen at weddings, formal beach events, and high-school proms, in the United States and at some concerts (famously for instance the Last night of the proms) in the United Kingdom. In tropical climates, such as in Imperial Burma, desert fawn was historically used as the less formal color. At one time, the (civilian) mess jacket was also an option in warmer climates.\n\nIt is generally considered inappropriate for a man to remove his jacket during a formal social event, but when hot weather and humidity dictate, the ranking man (of the royal family, the guest of honor) may give men permission by noticeably taking off his jacket. In anticipated hot weather, Red Sea rig is specified in the invitation, although this dress is esoteric in civilian circles, and is particular to certain expatriate communities.\n\nTraditionally, the only neck wear appropriate is the black bow tie that is a self-tie and should always match the lapel facing of the dinner jacket and braiding of the trouser seams. The bow tie is tied using a common shoelace knot, which is also called the bow knot for that reason.\nOften, members of wedding parties wear pastel bow ties with their dinner suits; this is inappropriate in a black tie context because it dilutes the formal integrity of the outfit, thereby reducing it to a party costume.\n\nBlack tie trousers traditionally have no cuffs (turn-ups in British English) or belt loops. The outer seams are usually decorated with a single braid of silk or a material that matches or complements the lapel facing. Traditionally, braces (suspenders), hidden by the waistcoat, are used to support the trousers. Belts should not ever be worn with black tie trousers. Evening trousers can be flat-fronted or pleated today; pleats first coming into fashion in the 1930s. Whilst flat-fronted trousers are more fashionable at present, pleated trousers may be considered more comfortable by men who have wider hips and a narrow waist.\n\nA waist covering should generally be worn as part of a black tie ensemble. Either a low cut waistcoat or cummerbund may be worn, but never both at the same time. Although the English authority Debrett's consider that wearing a waistcoat is smart, they no longer consider either waist covering to be essential. The American authority, The Emily Post Institute, considers them to be an essential component of proper black tie attire. Waist coverings shouldn't be matched to wedding theme colours.\nA low cut waistcoat should be worn when wearing a single-breasted coat. The waistcoat plays an important part in black tie's refined minimalism by helping to conceal its working parts by discreetly covering the trouser's exposed waistband and the shirt bosom's bottom edge. Waistcoasts come in the 'V' or rarer 'U' shape, in backless or fully backed versions, double or single breasted, with or without lapels. Single breasted styles typically have three buttons, and double breasted ones three or four rows. Before World War II, while black tie was still gaining acceptance, men would wear a white waistcoat, along with other details now associated primarily with white tie, such as stiff fronted shirts. However, this style, though increasingly viewed as an affectation, is still acceptable in the United States.The waistcoat should be made from either the same fabric as the dinner jacket (traditional) or the same silk as the jacket's lapels (popular). When a waistcoat has lapels, they should be faced in the same silk as those of the jacket; in this case it is considered more refined if the body is made from the same fabric as the jacket. The buttons may be self-faced or covered in the same silk as the lapels. Vintage waistcoats were sometimes closed with studs made from onyx or mother of pearl, which were often surrounded by a setting of silver or gold.\n\nA waistcoat is never worn with a double breasted jacket. Since this style of jacket is never unbuttoned, the waist of the trousers is never exposed, and therefore does not need to be covered, though before World War II an edge of waistcoat was often shown between the jacket and shirt.\n\nA cummerbund may be worn with a dinner jacket in lieu of a waistcoat and, although it is considered slightly less formal, it is equally correct. It looks especially well with a shawl collar dinner jacket but may be worn in conjunction with peak lapels. The material of the cummerbund should be silk satin, grosgrain (or faille), or barathea to match that of the bow tie. It features upward facing folds, which were originally used to store theatre or opera tickets, and are now considered to be more decorative than functional. Just like the waistcoat, cummerbunds are not worn with a double breasted jacket.\n\nAs the cummerbund is seen as an extension of the trousers, traditionally it should the same colour, i.e. be black. However, the \"Black Tie Guide\" endorses deep and rich colours as a tasteful way to introduce some colour into an outfit that is otherwise monochromatic. Bright colours, such as those often worn by members of wedding parties, should be avoided and the bow tie must remain black in any case. Some higher quality models feature a hidden pocket and an elastic loop to fasten to the trousers.\n\nShirts designed to be worn with black tie are called \"formal shirts,\" or \"tuxedo shirts\" in American English and \"dress shirts\" in British English. Traditionally, the shirt is white, has a bibbed front that is either marcella or pleated, a turndown collar, and double (or \"french\") cuffs. In the early-20th century, a piqué shirt with a detachable wing collar and single cuffs such as is worn with white tie was used, and in the 1960s and 1970s ruffled bibs were popular, but neither styles are often seen today. The wing collar originally disappeared in black tie after the 1920s when the appropriately semi-formal attached turndown collar shirt became preferred, but it has been popular with American men in a less substantial, attached form since the 1980s. However, many style authorities argue that the wing collar should remain the domain of white tie for aesthetic reasons. Etiquette maven Miss Manners is one of those who feel that while the bow tie's uncovered band is fine in a white-on-white scheme, “gentlemen with their black ties exposed all around their necks look silly.\"Although some style authorities consider the wing collar to be an acceptable option for black tie shirts, they should not be worn with double cuffs or a pleated bib, and are better suited to the more formal single-breasted peak lapel jacket. They should feature a bib that is either marcella or starched and include stiff single cuffs (secured with cufflinks), made of the same fabric as the bib; this type of shirt is exactly the same as one worn with white tie attire. The collar in this case should be tall and stiff, which may be attached or detachable. When a full dress shirt is worn in this fashion, it should be accompanied by the white marcella waistcoat ordinarily associated with white tie. Wearing white tie accessories in this manner is considered by many to be an affectation. Debrett's do not endorse the wing collar as being compatible with the black tie dress code.\nThe more formal marcella version of the shirt fastens with matching shirt studs. These are most commonly in silver or gold settings, featuring onyx or mother-of-pearl; various geometrical shapes are worn, e.g., circles (most common for studs), octagons, or rectangles (most common for cufflinks). There has been no consistent fashion preference for gold or silver, but studs with mother-of-pearl are more formal and therefore often associated with white tie. The soft-front pleated version of the shirt should be fastened with mother-of-pearl buttons, typically supplied with the shirt on a separate strip of fabric. Alternatively, a fly-front shirt, appropriate with both the marcella and pleated bibs, conceals the placket for a more minimalistic look.\n\nThere are several types of cufflinks that may be worn with black tie. The most formal and decorative are the double-panel type, which dress both sides of the cuff and are connected by a chain or link of metal; this model conceals the mechanism by which the cuff is secured. The most common, and least decorative, are the swivel bar type; whilst these are acceptable, they leave the inner side of the cuffs and mechanism exposed which is incongruous with formal dress.\nThe most formal and traditional shoes are patent leather opera pumps (court shoes) decorated with grosgrain bows. The more popular alternative currently is the black lace-up Oxford shoe, in patent leather or calfskin, with a rounded plain toe. Brogueing or any other decorative patterns should never be seen on Black Tie footwear. Matte finish pumps are also seen. Shoes are almost invariably black and patent leather is considered more formal than matte finishes while pumps are considered more formal than lace-ups. Generally considered too informal for black tie are shoes with open lacing, such as the Derby shoe (\"bluchers\" in American English). Notable alternatives include the black button boot (primarily of historical interest only) and the monogrammed Albert slipper which was originally worn only at home. The black Gucci loafer in leather is also considered as an alternative, especially in urban British settings. Hosiery is black socks made from fine wool or silk.\n\nMost etiquette and fashion guides of the current decade recommend keeping color touches and favoring a single color, usually dark; muted reds, such as maroon, are a traditional choice.\n\nHandkerchief: A handkerchief in linen (traditional), silk, or cotton is usually worn in the breast pocket. Although precedents for tasteful exceptions exist, pocket squares are normally white, and should not match the waist covering or bow tie.\n\nBoutonnière: A flower may be worn. Red and white carnation, blue cornflower, and rosebud have all been popular at times. In France, the boutonnière is usually a gardenia. \n\nOuterwear: Black-tie events do not involve outerwear and coats and gloves are no longer considered part of the dress code. However, etiquette for what to wear in public in transit to and from black tie occasions was stiffer in earlier eras and remain an option: Matching overcoats are usually black, charcoal, or dark blue, and traditionally of the Chesterfield style. A guards coat was also once popular, and a lighter topcoat can be worn in summer. Historically, an Inverness coat was also worn. Until the mid-20th century, gloves and scarves were always worn, and are still occasionally seen in gray leather and white silk, respectively. White kid gloves have never been standard with black tie, remaining exclusive to white tie dress.\n\nHat: The 20th-century standard hat for black tie was a black (or midnight blue) Homburg in winter, or straw boater in spring and summer. Fedoras were originally regarded as too informal but have become more common recently. Top hats were originally worn with black-tie, but had been reserved to white tie and morning dress from World War I. Black-tie dress does not require a hat today.\nDecorations and orders: Military, civil, and organizational decorations are usually worn only to full dress events, generally of formal governmental or diplomatic significance. Miniature orders and awards are typically worn on the left lapel of the jacket, and neck badges, breast stars, and sashes are worn according to country-specific or organizational regulations. Unlike in white tie, where decorations are always permitted, the dress code will usually give some indication when decorations are to be worn with black tie.\n\nTimepiece: Traditionally visible timepieces are not worn with formal evening dress, because timekeeping is not supposed to be considered a priority. Pocket watches are acceptable.\n\nBlack tie is worn to private and public dinners, balls, and parties. At the more formal end of the social spectrum, it has to a large extent replaced the more formal white tie. The black tie code is sometimes classified as \"semi-formal\" in contrast to the \"formal\" white tie, or as \"formal\" in contrast to the \"most formal\" of white tie. Once more common, white tie dress code is now fairly rare, being reserved for only extremely formal occasions. Black tie is traditionally worn only after six o'clock in the evening, or after sundown during winter months. Black tie's rough daytime equivalent is the stroller, which is less formal than morning dress because (as with black tie) it replaces the tailcoat with a lounge coat. Curiously, in opposition to the trend seen in evening dress, the less formal stroller is now extraordinarily rare, whereas morning dress is still relatively common.\n\nWhen the dress code for an event starting at or after 6 o'clock in the evening is described as 'formal' with no further qualification, the invitee may choose to wear either black tie or a dark lounge suit with a tie.\n\nTraditionally, black tie should be worn to the opera although a dark lounge suit is also now acceptable. In the 21st century, many opera houses in the English-speaking world do not stipulate black tie. For example, neither the Royal Opera House nor the Sydney Opera House have a black tie dress code. Black tie is customary at English country house opera, such as during the summer Festival at Glyndebourne.\n\nBlack tie should also be worn at a ballet or orchestra gala.\n\nAt formal dinners on cruise ships the dress code will typically be black tie although a dark lounge suit may be worn as a substitute. In 2013 Cunard, noted for its adherence to formal dress codes, relaxed its dress standards. Cunard requires one of a dinner jacket, a dark suit, formal national dress or military uniform for gentlemen diners on formal evenings. Similarly, the luxury cruise liner, Seabourn, stipulates either a tuxedo or a dark business suit on formal evenings.\n\nSome university debating societies, such as at Oxford and Durham conduct at least some of their debates in black tie. Learned societies, such as the Royal Aeronautical Society, may also follow a similar practice.\n\nIn the last few decades, in place of the traditional white tie or morning dress, black tie has been increasingly seen in the United States at formal day wedding. However, etiquette and clothing experts continue to discourage or condemn the wearing of black tie as too informal for weddings, or any event before 7 p.m., such as by Emily Post (1872-1960) and Amy Vanderbilt (1908-1974), the latter arguing that \"no man should ever be caught in a church in a tuxedo.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe, although a minority accepts black tie at evening receptions, including some Jewish weddings, it is seldom worn at church weddings or civil ceremonies where instead white tie, morning dress or a lounge suit is normally favoured. In some places, local variations of white tie etiquette may traditionally be worn, such as highland dress in Scotland.\n\nFor formal dining, uniformed services officers and non-commissioned officers often wear mess dress equivalents to the civilian black tie and evening dress. Mess uniforms may vary according to the wearers' respective branches of the armed services, regiments, or corps, but usually include a short Eton-style coat reaching to the waist. Some include white shirts, black bow ties, and low-cut waistcoats, while others feature high collars that fasten around the neck and corresponding high-gorge waistcoats. Some nations' armed services have black tie and white tie equivalent variants in their mess dress.\n\nIn tropical areas, primarily in Western diplomatic and expatriate communities, Red Sea rig is sometimes worn, in which the jacket and waistcoat are omitted and a red cummerbund and trousers with red piping are worn instead.\n\nScottish Highland dress is often worn to black- and white-tie occasions, especially at Scottish reels and ceilidhs; the black-tie version is more common, even at white-tie occasions. Traditionally, black-tie Scots Highland dress comprises:\n\n\nTraditional black-tie Lowland dress is a variant of the normal black tie that includes tartan trews rather than the usual trousers and may include a suitable kilt jacket instead of the dinner jacket. Trews are often worn in summer and warm climes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "166858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166858", "title": "Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons", "text": "Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\n\nCaptain Scarlet and the Mysterons, often referred to as Captain Scarlet, is a 1960s British science-fiction television series produced by the Century 21 Productions company of Gerry and Sylvia Anderson, John Read and Reg Hill. First broadcast on ATV Midlands from September 1967 to May 1968, it has since been transmitted in more than 40 other countries, including the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Japan. Characters are presented as marionette puppets alongside scale model sets and special effects in a filming technique that the Andersons termed \"Supermarionation\". This technology incorporated solenoid motors as a means of synchronising the puppet's lip movements with pre-recorded dialogue.\n\nSet in 2068, \"Captain Scarlet\" presents the hostilities between Earth and a race of Martians known as the Mysterons. After human astronauts attack their city on Mars due to a misunderstanding, the vengeful Mysterons declare war on Earth, initiating a series of reprisals that are countered by Spectrum, a worldwide security organisation. Spectrum boasts the extraordinary abilities of its primary agent, Captain Scarlet. In the first episode, Scarlet acquires the Mysteron healing factor of \"retro-metabolism\" and is thereafter considered to be virtually \"indestructible\", being able to recover fully from injuries that would normally be fatal.\n\n\"Captain Scarlet\", the eighth of ten puppet series that the Andersons produced during the 1950s and 1960s, was preceded by \"Thunderbirds\" and followed by \"Joe 90\" and \"The Secret Service\". In terms of visual aesthetic, the series represented a departure from \"Thunderbirds\" on account of its use of non-caricatured puppets sculpted in realistic proportions. Re-run a number of times in the UK and purchased by the BBC in 1993, the 32-episode series has entailed tie-in merchandise since its first appearance, from dolls to original novels and comic strips in the Century 21 Publications children's magazine, \"TV Century 21\".\n\nIn comparison to \"Thunderbirds\" and other earlier series, \"Captain Scarlet\" is generally considered \"darker\" in tone and less suited to child audiences due to stronger on-screen violence and themes of extraterrestrial aggression and interplanetary war. The transition in the puppets' design has polarised critical opinion and drawn a mixed response from former production staff, while the concept of an indestructible protagonist has also been called into question. However, the series has been praised for its inclusion of a multinational, multiethnic puppet cast and its depiction of a utopian future Earth. Having decided to revive the series in the late 1990s, Gerry Anderson supervised the production of a computer-animated reboot, \"Gerry Anderson's New Captain Scarlet\", which was broadcast in the UK in 2005.\n\nIn the first episode, a team of \"Zero-X\" astronauts investigate the surface of Mars in 2068 after unidentified radio signals emanating from the planet are detected on Earth. The source is discovered to be an extraterrestrial base, which is attacked and destroyed when the explorers mistake a harmless sensor device for a weapon. The inhabitants of the settlement, the Mysterons, are sentient computers that form a collective consciousness. They are the remnants of the original Mysteron race, extraterrestrial life forms that originated in a galaxy other than the Milky Way and maintained their colony on Mars for 3,500 years before abandoning the planet at the turn of the 20th century. Possessing partial control over matter, the Mysteron computers draw on their power of \"reversing matter\" to rebuild the complex before vowing revenge for the unwarranted aggression.\n\nReversing matter, also described as \"retro-metabolism\", allows the Mysterons to re-create the likeness of a person or object in the form of a facsimile that is under their control. This ability is used to conduct a \"war of nerves\" against Earth, in which the Mysterons issue threats against specific targets (from world leaders and military installations to whole cities and continents) and then destroy and reconstruct whatever instruments are required (whether human or object) to execute their plans. The presence of the Mysterons is indicated by two circles of green light (the \"Mysteron rings\") that trail across scenes of destruction and reconstruction. Although the Mysterons are able to manipulate events from Mars, their actions on Earth are usually performed by their replicated intermediaries.\n\n\"Zero-X\" mission leader Captain Black, who ordered the attack on the base, becomes the Mysterons' primary agent when they seize control of his mind during the encounter on Mars. Before the events of the series, Captain Black held a senior officer rank in Spectrum, an international security organisation inaugurated in 2067 that mobilises all its personnel, vehicles, and other resources in response to the threat posed by the Mysterons. The Spectrum Organisation is directed from Cloudbase, an airborne headquarters stationed at a height of 40,000 feet above the Earth's surface, and has a presence in all major cities. The organisation employs operatives of many nationalities, of whom the most senior hold military ranks and colour-based codenames, are posted to Cloudbase, and answer directly to the commander-in-chief of Spectrum, Colonel White. Cloudbase is defended by the Angels, a squadron of five female pilots code-named Destiny (squadron leader), Harmony, Melody, Rhapsody, and Symphony, who fly the Angel Interceptor fighter aircraft. In addition, the organisation incorporates a fleet of Spectrum Pursuit Vehicles (SPV) hidden in secret locations around the world as well as Spectrum Patrol Saloon Cars, hovercraft, transport jets and machine-gun equipped helicopters.\n\nCaptain Scarlet becomes Spectrum's foremost weapon in its fight against the Mysterons after the events of the first episode, in which the Mysterons threaten to assassinate the World President as their first act of retaliation. The original Captain Scarlet is killed in a car accident engineered by the Mysterons and replaced with a re-created Mysteron likeness. However, when the Captain Scarlet duplicate is shot by Spectrum officer Captain Blue and falls to his death from a tall structure, he returns to life with the conscience and personality of the original Captain Scarlet fully restored, and thereafter he is free from Mysteron control. Captain Scarlet's Mysteronised body possesses two remarkable abilities: he is able to sense the presence of other Mysteron duplicates in his vicinity, and if he is injured or killed, his retro-metabolism restores him to a state of top health. Now able to deploy suicidally reckless tactics to thwart Mysteron threats, Captain Scarlet repeatedly braves the pain of death in the knowledge that he will recover to face the Mysterons again.\n\nWhile Captain Scarlet and Spectrum defend Earth against the threat from Mars, it is found that Mysteron reconstructions are particularly vulnerable to electricity and that they are detectable on X-rays, to which their biology is impervious. Consequently, two anti-Mysteron devices, the \"Mysteron Gun\" and the \"Mysteron Detector,\" are developed to aid Spectrum. A three-episode story arc charts the uncovering of a second Mysteron complex under construction on the Moon, its destruction by Spectrum, and efforts to negotiate with the Mysterons on Mars via a crystal power source, salvaged from the complex, which is converted into an interplanetary communication device. A failed attempt at satellite surveillance of the Martian surface, aborted military conferences and the sabotaged construction of a new space fleet hinder Spectrum's plans to return to Mars, and the organisation is unsuccessful on two occasions in apprehending Captain Black. The penultimate episode of the series depicts a Mysteron assault on Cloudbase with the use of armed spacecraft, which is ultimately revealed to be a sunstroke-caused nightmare dreamt by Symphony Angel, one of the Angel pilots, after she is stranded in the desert following a crash of her Angel Interceptor. The finale is a flashback episode that ends inconclusively with regards to the war between Earth and Mars and the fate of Spectrum and the Mysterons.\n\nWhen talks to find an American broadcaster for \"Thunderbirds\" fell through in July 1966, production for the series' second season ended with the completion of just six episodes at the behest of ITC financier Lew Grade. Having overseen Gerry Anderson's work since the creation of \"Supercar\" in 1960 – and going on to buy his production company, AP Films, during the making of \"Fireball XL5\" – Grade was enthusiastic for Anderson's programmes to be transmitted abroad, in the lucrative American market, and decided that a new concept would do more to attract potential bidders than a second season of \"Thunderbirds\".\n\nAs a result of the cancellation, Anderson was required to come up with an idea for another Supermarionation series. He had once been inspired by the thought of creating a live-action police drama in which the hero would have unexpectedly been murdered halfway through the series and replaced by a new lead character. Now giving fresh consideration to this idea, Anderson resolved that a selling point for his new series could be a character that can be killed at the end of each episode and resurrected by the beginning of the next. This, coupled with contemporary theories about the possibility of life on Mars, led to the idea of an interplanetary war raging between Earth and its neighbour and a worldwide security organisation being called on to defend human civilisation. After further thought, Anderson decided that \"Scarlet\" would make an unusual codename for this organisation's \"indestructible\" agent who can come back to life, while \"Blue\" could be his partner's designation. From this, Anderson reasoned that all the personnel should have colours for names so as to form the whole \"Spectrum\" of colours, and decided that someone called \"White\" should be the leader of the Spectrum Organisation, much in the same way that white light is composed of, and can be broken down into, the colours of the spectrum.\n\nIntrigued by the often-heard phrase \"life as we know it\", Anderson wanted to set the aliens of his new series apart from the conventional extraterrestrials of 1960s television and cinema. He therefore worked from a basis of \"life as we \"don't\" know it\", and made the Mysterons that were to feature in the series a race of sentient computers as opposed to organic lifeforms, although this is not explicitly stated in the television episodes. The initial intention was that the original Mysteron civilisation came from another galaxy. Having established a settlement on Mars in the distant past, they fled the planet centuries later, abandoning their computer complex.\n\nContemporary recollections of the Second World War proved to be an inspiration for a number of design aspects. For instance, Anderson recalled that RAF pilots had found it difficult to counter German attacks during the Battle of Britain, since taking off from the ground meant that it took considerable time to intercept the enemy. He therefore made Spectrum's headquarters an airborne aircraft carrier called \"Cloudbase\". The Mysteron rings were inspired by an advertisement for the Oxo line of food products, which included an image of the brand name sliding over a frying pan and the outline of a woman's body.\nWith a provisional series title of \"The Mysterons\", Anderson and his wife, Sylvia, wrote a pilot script in August 1966. This differed significantly from the final draft of the first episode. Initially, it was decided that the Mysteron duplicate of Captain Scarlet would be artificially resurrected by an advanced Spectrum computer rather than reviving naturally, and that thereafter he would no longer be truly human but a \"mechanical man\" akin to an android. Another early ambition was for each episode to feature a guest star voiced by a well-known actor of the day. To this end, the role of the World President in the first episode was originally intended to be voiced by the American-born actor Patrick McGoohan.\n\nWith Anderson serving chiefly as executive producer, the majority of the writing input for \"Captain Scarlet\" was provided by Tony Barwick, who had previously written for the short-lived second season of \"Thunderbirds\". Originally given the role of script editor, Barwick went on to pen 18 of the 32 episodes himself, and was also often required to make substantial changes to other writers' work. While discussing his approach to writing episodes in a 1986 interview, he drew parallels between the premise and characters of \"Captain Scarlet\" and those of \"Thunderbirds\", suggesting, for example, that Spectrum was similar to International Rescue and that the character of Captain Black was like the earlier recurring villain from \"Thunderbirds\", The Hood.\n\nAfter a two-month pre-production period lasting from November to December 1966, filming on the first episode, \"The Mysterons\", began on 2 January 1967, with a budget of £1.5 million for the 32-episode series. At an average cost of £46,000 per episode, or £2,000 per minute, it was the most expensive Anderson production to date. A month before, Anderson and his team had dropped the name \"AP Films,\" since Arthur Provis was no longer working alongside Anderson on a full-time basis, and renamed their company \"Century 21 Productions\". Many of the directors for earlier Anderson series, such as Alan Pattillo, David Elliott and David Lane, had either left AP Films or were involved in the production of \"Thunderbird 6,\" the second \"Thunderbirds\" feature film, at the time that \"Captain Scarlet\" was being produced. Although Desmond Saunders and Lane were available to direct the first and second episodes, while veteran AP Films director Brian Burgess also contributed, the Andersons needed to transfer some of the more junior production personnel to replace the outgoing staff. To this effect, Alan Perry and Ken Turner were promoted from the camera operator and art departments. Directors drafted in from outside AP Films were Peter Anderson, Leo Eaton and finally Robert Lynn, who had worked as an assistant director on the 1958 Hammer films \"Dracula\" and \"The Revenge of Frankenstein.\"\n\nThe Slough Trading Estate in Buckinghamshire had served as Anderson's production base since the filming of \"Stingray\" in 1964. To accelerate production on earlier Supermarionation series, pairs of episodes had been filmed simultaneously on separate sound stages, a practice that continued for \"Captain Scarlet\". Some filming coincided with the production of \"Thunderbird 6\", which was recorded on a separate puppet stage and released in July 1968. Editing rooms, post-production offices and a preview theatre were housed in a separate building on the Slough Trading Estate; the crew collaborated with the Standard Telecommunication Laboratories at Harlow in Essex on the technical and electronic side of the production.\n\nA third unit, headed by Derek Meddings and his assistant Mike Trim, handled special effects and miniatures and was tasked with creating all the permanent sets and models to be used from the first episode, such as the Cloudbase interiors and scaled-down Spectrum Pursuit Vehicles. A design innovation for this series meant that the noses of the miniature vehicles would \"dip\" when stopped, to imitate the sudden application of brakes and deceleration on a real-life vehicle. The miniature of the Cloudbase exterior, which ran to six feet (1.8 m) in length, proved to be too heavy to be held up with strings and was instead supported by a metal pole. To transfer the Mysteron rings from script to screen, the production team acted on the advice of producer Reg Hill, who suggested that a transparency be made that could be panned across the puppet sets using a slide projector.\n\nBy the time the series started broadcasting on ATV in September 1967, principal photography had been completed for the first 20 episodes. In general, turnaround for completing all the puppet shots for each episode was two weeks or 11 working days. It was originally predicted that shooting would be wrapped within eight months, but filming overran until late October due to the demands of the \"Thunderbird 6\" shoot. While production on the next Supermarionation series, , began in November it was not until early 1968 that the last episodes of \"Captain Scarlet\" were edited and completed for broadcast.\n\nMusic for \"Captain Scarlet\" was composed by Barry Gray, an innovator in electronic music, who had scored all the Supermarionation series preceding it. The opening title sequence theme, \"The Mysterons\", was rendered electronically and accompanied by a staccato drum beat to introduce the lead character of Captain Scarlet. This seven-note beat was also used to link scenes within episodes, and to cut to advertisement breaks, for which it was accompanied by a zooming image of the Spectrum logo as designed by Tony Dunsterville of the art department. On the subject of the beat, Anderson recalls, \"When I went to the recording session, I heard the drum beat he had come up with and I thought, 'Christ, is this all he could produce?' Looking back on it, however, I can see that what he came up with worked very well.\"\n\nThe closing credits theme, \"Captain Scarlet\", underwent significant change after the completion of the first 14 episodes. The first version had been mainly instrumental, with the words \"Captain Scarlet!\" sung in time to the aforementioned staccato drum beat after which a vocoded repetition of the words \"Captain Scarlet!\" provided by Gray himself would be heard. This was then revised as a song performed by a London-based pop group The Spectrum, assembled by RCA Victor as an imitation of the American band The Monkees, who happened to share their name with the organisation that appears in \"Captain Scarlet\".\n\nIn addition to the main theme, Gray scored incidental music for 18 episodes of \"Captain Scarlet\" between March and December 1967. Musical accompaniment for the remaining 14 episodes was achieved by re-using these completed tracks as well as music from previous Anderson productions such as \"Thunderbirds\". In composing his incidental music, Gray made extensive use of two contrasting, yet similar, themes to illustrate Spectrum and the Mysterons. In their notes to the soundtrack release, Ralph Titterton and Tim Mallett suggest that the music is dominated by a \"military feel\", with an emphasis placed on percussion, brass and wind instruments, by contrast to the full orchestral sound of the \"Thunderbirds\" score. With the exception of the four-note Mysteron motif, Gray generally restricted his use of electronic synthesisers, including an Ondes Martenot, to space sequences, preferring traditional instruments for Earth-bound action. Captain Scarlet's motif, heard in both versions of the end credits theme and the incidental music, is a melodic variation on the Mysteron theme, emphasising Scarlet's history as an ex-Mysteron.\n\nAwarding the soundtrack CD release a rating of four stars out of five, Bruce Eder of the website AllMusic describes the collection of theme and incidental music as \"a strange mix of otherworldly 'music of the spheres', late-50s/early-60s 'space-age pop', 'British Invasion' beat, Scottish folk-inspired tunes, kids-style 'Mickey Mouse' scoring, martial music, light jazz, and light classical\", and singles out both \"Cocktail Music\", from \"Model Spy\", and the piano track, performed by Gray, from \"The Inquisition\", for particular praise. In his BBC Online review, Peter Marsh opines that the darker tone of the music is reflective of \"Captain Scarlet\" as a programme featuring realistic puppets and death, frightening alien villains and \"no laughs\", stating that \"dissonant vibraphone chords shimmer under hovering, tremulous strings contrasted with urgent, militaristic drums and pulsing brass – driving the action ever onto its climax (and, no doubt, a big explosion).\"\n\nIn October 2015, Fanderson released a 3-disc set exclusively for club members. It contains music either written for, or used in, all but three episodes (\"The Heart of New York\" and \"Treble Cross\" contain no original music and the cue recordings for \"Traitor\" are lost).\n\n\"Captain Scarlet\" soundtrack releases:\n\nSupermarionation, a technique in which the movement of the marionette puppet's mouth is electronically synchronised with character dialogue, had been formulated by Gerry Anderson for \"Four Feather Falls\" in 1960. Until production for \"Captain Scarlet\", the head of the puppet had been disproportionately large in comparison to its body, as the head contained a solenoid that formed the key component of the lip-synch mechanism. The production team was not able to scale up the body to match the head, as this would have made the puppets hard to operate and have necessitated a proportionate scaling-up in the size of the puppet sets. Since Gerry Anderson had expressed frustration with this caricatured design during the production of earlier Supermarionation series, and wished that the puppets would more accurately reflect human biology, before production commenced on \"Captain Scarlet\" the producer, Reg Hill, and his associate, John Read, designed a new type of puppet in which the solenoid was instead placed inside the chest, to permit a head of realistic proportion. The costume designer for \"Captain Scarlet\" was Sylvia Anderson, who was influenced by the work of French fashion designer Pierre Cardin, in particular his 1966 \"Cosmonaut\" collection, in designing the Spectrum uniforms.\n\nAfter test-sculpting in Plasticine, the puppet heads were moulded on a silicone rubber base and made using fibreglass. At heights ranging from 20 to 24 inches (approximately one-third life-size) the next-generation puppets were no shorter than their predecessors. For previous series, puppet eyes had been sized out of proportion to the heads, but as part of the realistic look introduced in \"Captain Scarlet\", the eyes of production personnel were photographed and the images scaled down for attachment to the eye sockets. As had been the case for earlier series, a number of alternative heads displaying a range of expressions were created for main character puppets, including \"smilers\", \"frowners\" and \"blinkers\". Since episodes of \"Captain Scarlet\" were filmed in pairs, one on each of the puppet stages available at the Century 21 Studios, duplicates were made of the \"expressionless\" template of each main character. For the first episode, an \"agony\" head was specially sculpted for the Captain Scarlet puppet for a brief reaction shot of Scarlet's Mysteron double being shot by Captain Blue.\n\nThe increased realism of the puppets meant that their mobility was significantly reduced, ironically leaving the new design less lifelike than Anderson had hoped, as he recalls: \"Suddenly, all the movements had to be as realistic as the puppets and that made it difficult for the puppeteers to animate them.\" To minimise the amount of movement required, the puppets were made to stand on moving walkways or sit at moving desks: for example, Colonel White's desk on Cloudbase is seen to rotate, while Lieutenant Green is seen to operate the Cloudbase main computer from a sliding chair. Puppeteer Jan King recalls:\n\nThe \"under control\" puppets described by King were stringless and controlled from the waist. One resulting advantage was that a puppet could be moved through a doorway without necessitating a break in the shot. For shots displaying characters such as the Angels seated in aircraft cockpits, variations of the \"under control\" design, comprising just a head and torso, were manipulated by levers and wires positioned underneath the set. This development of Supermarionation would be named \"Supermacromation\" when Anderson returned to puppetry in the 1980s with his later production, \"Terrahawks\".\n\nBefore \"Captain Scarlet\", supporting character puppets had been specially sculpted in clay as and when episodes required them. The guest parts in \"Captain Scarlet\", however, were filled by a permanent \"repertory company\" of over 50 puppets made to the same standards of workmanship as the main characters. Known as \"revamp puppets\" or \"revamps\", these puppets appeared on an episode-by-episode basis, cosmetically altered for each role in aspects such as hairstyle and hair colour. An initial intention was for each episode to include a \"guest star\" puppet to be sculpted on, and voiced by, a known public figure but this idea was abandoned due to budgetary constraints. Both main character and revamp puppets from \"Captain Scarlet\" appeared in Anderson's final two Supermarionation series, \"Joe 90\" and \"The Secret Service\".\n\nThe likeness of the Captain Scarlet character has, since his first appearance, been attributed to Francis Matthews, who voiced Scarlet in the series, Cary Grant and Roger Moore. Ed Bishop later claimed that Captain Blue had been modelled on his likeness, but sculptor Terry Curtis states that he made the puppet to resemble himself and simply added a blond wig when he learnt that Bishop was to voice Blue. Curtis, a James Bond fan, based the appearance of Captain Grey on Sean Connery and Destiny Angel on Ursula Andress, Connery's co-star in the 1962 Bond film \"Dr No\". Meanwhile, the character of Lieutenant Green was sculpted on its voice actor, Cy Grant; Rhapsody Angel on model and actress Jean Shrimpton; Melody Angel on singer and actress Eartha Kitt; and Harmony Angel on actress Tsai Chin.\nThe regular puppet cast of \"Captain Scarlet\" was the largest of all the Anderson Supermarionation series. While earlier productions had emphasised the benefits of futuristic technology, for \"Captain Scarlet\" it was decided to develop and deepen the cast of characters. Further to the enhanced realism of the puppet design, voice roles for \"Captain Scarlet\" were, as opposed to \"Thunderbirds\" and other predecessors, also intended to be less caricatured. Anderson biographers Simon Archer and Marcus Hearn note that, between \"Thunderbirds\" and \"Captain Scarlet,\" a proliferation of English-accented voices altered the sound of the Supermarionation production and its impression on the viewer.\n\nFrancis Matthews, voicing Captain Scarlet, had previously turned down offers for voice-acting on \"Thunderbirds\". Matthews claims that Gerry Anderson went to great lengths to get him to sign on to \"Captain Scarlet\" because of the skilled Cary Grant impression that he had once used for a radio programme, and indeed the English actor based the tones of Scarlet on Grant's Mid-Atlantic accent. In contrast, Anderson claims in his biography that the impression was Matthews's choice at audition, and that whilst it was not what had been intended for Captain Scarlet, the production team nevertheless elected to use it. Matthews's filmography prior to \"Captain Scarlet\" included the Hammer films \"The Revenge of Frankenstein\" (1958), \"Rasputin, the Mad Monk\" (1966) and \"\" (1966).\n\nMatthews's co-star in \"Dracula: Prince of Darkness\" had been Charles Tingwell, who was chosen to voice Doctor Fawn, the Cloudbase chief medical officer. Tingwell, who had provided voices for the second season of \"Thunderbirds\" and its first feature film, \"Thunderbirds Are Go\", had initially been recommended to the Andersons by Ray Barrett, a fellow Australian actor who had worked on \"Stingray\" and \"Thunderbirds\". However, due to commitments to a touring theatre production, Tingwell could only contribute to the first twelve produced episodes of \"Captain Scarlet\", ending with \"Shadow of Fear\". Also departing after the completion of \"Shadow of Fear\" was the voice of Captain Grey, Paul Maxwell, a Canadian actor who had voiced the characters of Steve Zodiac and Captain Paul Travers in \"Fireball XL5\" and \"Thunderbirds Are Go\" respectively, who dropped out of production due to being cast as Steve Tanner in \"Coronation Street\". As a result, Doctor Fawn and Captain Grey appeared in the remainder of the series in a non-speaking capacity only, although other characters voiced by Tingwell and Maxwell occasionally appeared in flashback sequences of specific episodes.\n\nCy Grant, a Guyanese actor selected for the role of Lieutenant Green (Colonel White's assistant and Cloudbase's main computer operator and public announcer), had been known to the Andersons for singing topical calypsos on the current affairs programme \"Tonight\". His casting influenced the decision to accept Edward Bishop as Captain Blue (Captain Scarlet's friend and mission partner), as Bishop recalled in an interview recorded in 1995: \"It was just that a girl in my agent's office happened to be on the ball. She represented this black actor by the name of Cy Grant and Gerry and Sylvia wanted to use him ... And the girl said, 'Oh, by the way, Mr Anderson, we've just taken on a new, young American actor' – shows you how long ago it was – 'a new American actor, name of Edward Bishop. And we know how much you like American voices. Would you like to meet him as well?' He said, 'Okay, send him out.' So I went out and auditioned and got the job.\"\n\nDonald Gray, who had found himself typecast after appearing in the lead role in \"Saber of London\", a detective series, was having to resort to voice work to support his acting career. The South African actor was selected for three regular roles: Colonel White, Captain Black and the Mysterons. After his mind is hijacked in the first episode, Black speaks with the same voice that the Mysterons are heard to use when transmitting threats to Earth. For his portrayals of Black and his Mysteron masters, Gray's voice was electronically deepened, by running the tape at high speed whilst he was recording his lines and playing it back at normal speed, to produce a haunting effect.\n\nThe voice of Captain Ochre was provided by English-born Canadian, Jeremy Wilkin. Having served in the role of Virgil Tracy during the second series of \"Thunderbirds,\" Wilkin remained to voice Ochre for the subsequent production. The character of Captain Magenta, meanwhile, was voiced by Gary Files. Another Australian actor, Files was a fresh addition to Century 21 Productions, and was cast for a number of roles in the second \"Thunderbirds\" film, \"Thunderbird 6,\" before progressing to the role of Magenta for \"Captain Scarlet.\" Like Files, Welsh actress Liz Morgan was new to the Anderson productions and voiced the regular characters of Destiny Angel, the lead pilot of the Spectrum Angel fighter squadron, and one of her subordinates, Rhapsody Angel.\n\nSylvia Anderson, the voice of Lady Penelope from \"Thunderbirds,\" voiced Melody Angel, while Canadian actress Janna Hill was given the part of Symphony. The character of Harmony Angel was voiced by Morgan for five episodes before being replaced by Chinese actress Lian-Shin about one-third of the way through the recording sessions. Although Lian provided the voice of Harmony for only one episode, \"The Launching,\" she received billing for 20 episodes.\n\nSupporting character voices were performed by Anderson, Files, Hill, Maxwell, Morgan, Tingwell and Wilkin. Completing the supporting cast were American actor David Healy and British actor Martin King. Canadian Shane Rimmer, who had performed the voice of Scott Tracy in \"Thunderbirds\" and its films, made a number of uncredited contributions in addition to writing for the series. Fellow Canadian Neil McCallum, who had provided the voice of the character of Dr Ray Pierce in \"Thunderbirds Are Go\", can be heard in four episodes, though he was not credited. Gerry Anderson himself lent his voice to the episode \"Lunarville 7\"; he too went uncredited. Six members of the voice cast would continue their association with the Andersons after \"Captain Scarlet\". Healy would voice the character of Shane Weston in the penultimate Supermarionation series, \"Joe 90\", while Files would voice Matthew Harding on \"The Secret Service\". Wilkin, Morgan and King were all given small roles for these final two Supermarionation series, while Bishop appeared as SHADO Commander Edward Straker in Anderson's live-action series, \"UFO\", which was transmitted in the United Kingdom from 1970.\n\nCharacter dialogue was recorded on a fortnightly basis, with lines for up to four episodes taped at each session, at the Anvil Films Recording Studio at Denham in Buckinghamshire. Each actor, regardless of the size of their contribution, was paid 15 guineas (£15 15 shillings) per episode with repeat fees. The cast were not given the opportunity to tour the Century 21 studios in Slough until all their work was finished and therefore had no visualisation of their characters during the recording itself. This was to the regret of Liz Morgan: \"We all said that we wished we had seen the puppets before doing the dialogue, as it would have been helpful to have something physical to base the voices on. I knew that Destiny was French and that Rhapsody had to be frightfully 'Sloaney,' but that was about it.\"\n\nAll \"Captain Scarlet\" episodes, except the first, incorporate two sets of opening titles. The first of these sequences displays the title card and the primary production credits. The camera moves forward through the scale-model set of a run-down, night-time alleyway, forming the point-of-view shot of an unseen assassin, who turns a corner only to meet his death at the gun barrel of Captain Scarlet. The two seven-letter words \"Captain Scarlet\" gradually appear in time with the seven strikes of the \"Captain Scarlet\" staccato drum beat composed by Barry Gray. This opening sequence is accompanied by a voice-over from Ed Bishop, which states:\n\nThe sequence is intended to demonstrate Captain Scarlet's indestructibility, with the assassin's machine-gun bullets having no apparent effect on their target.\n\nA number of variations of the voice-over have been used. Bishop's introduction to the pilot, which is unique to that episode, runs:\n\nA little-used alternative version runs:\n\nLater prints feature an additional voice-over by Donald Gray, warning:\n\nThis served both to establish the background to the series and to warn child viewers not to risk their safety by copying Scarlet's actions. It was either placed after the alternative \"One man ...\" voice-over or used in isolation, such that no voice-over by Bishop was heard.\n\nFrom the second episode onwards, a secondary opening sequence runs immediately after an initial teaser: as the Mysterons announce their latest threat against Earth, the \"Mysteron rings\" pass over the primary puppet cast in a number of environments to demonstrate the aliens' omnipresence. Meanwhile, the characters's Spectrum code names are flashed up on-screen. The Mysterons invariably begin their threat with the words, \"This is the voice of the Mysterons. We know that you can hear us, Earthmen.\"\n\nThe end credits sequence was originally intended to feature images of printed circuit boards and other electronic components, to reflect the Andersons's early conception of the resurrected Captain Scarlet as being a \"mechanical man.\" In the completed sequence, the end production credits are superimposed on a series of ten paintings, which depict Scarlet in moments of extreme danger. In earlier episodes, these images are accompanied by the instrumental version of Barry Gray's \"Captain Scarlet\" theme music; in later ones, this is replaced by the lyrical version sung by The Spectrum. The paintings were produced by comic artist Ron Embleton, who would later illustrate the adult comic strips \"Oh, Wicked Wanda!\" and \"Sweet Chastity\" for \"Penthouse\" Magazine. In 2005, the Animation Art Gallery in London released licensed limited editions of the paintings signed by Francis Matthews, who had provided the voice of Captain Scarlet.\n\nIn Japan, the original opening credit sequences were replaced with a montage of action clips from various episodes, accompanied by a unique theme song performed by children. This version is included in the special features of the \"Captain Scarlet\" DVD box set.\n\"Captain Scarlet\" officially opened on British television on 29 September 1967, in the late-afternoon slot of 5.25 pm, in the ATV Midlands region. Viewing figures for the first episode, \"The Mysterons\", were promising at 0.45 million. Five months earlier, on 29 April, the series opener had been given a late-night test transmission in the London area. After the start of the Midlands broadcasts, London and Scotland followed on 1 October, with the Granada, Anglia, Southern, Westward and Channel areas all televising the series by the end of the month. However, it was not until the start of 1968 that the series was being broadcast all across the nation. In the Midlands region, the ratings averaged 1.1 million. In 1968, \"Captain Scarlet\" was also screened in more than 40 other countries, including Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Japan. In the United States, the series was transmitted on first-run syndication. Meanwhile, only six episodes of the series were transmitted in the Netherlands.\n\nRepeat runs have varied greatly according to region. While Granada, HTV and Tyne Tees continued to broadcast the series into 1972, the Midlands received four colour re-runs from 1969 to 1974, while in other areas, such as Yorkshire, it was not repeated at all. All 32 episodes were purchased by ITV for broadcast on Saturday mornings between 1985 and 1986, with broadcasting in segmented form on the ITV Night Network in 1987. A BBC commission led to the series' first simultaneous network broadcast on BBC2 starting on 1 October 1993. On this occasion, the first episode attracted an audience of four million, high enough to award it third position in the BBC2 ratings chart for the week of transmission.\n\nDigitally remastered, the series resurfaced on BBC Two in the autumn of 2001. On this occasion, the episode schedule needed to be re-arranged at short notice to avoid offence in the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks. The second episode, \"Winged Assassin\", in which the Mysterons destroy and reconstruct a plane to assassinate a world leader, and the third, \"Big Ben Strikes Again\", in which London comes under threat from an atomic device, were held back and replaced with the fourth episode, \"Manhunt\", due to parallels between the plotlines and events in the real world. In the week after the attacks, the \"Captain Scarlet\" section on the Carlton website was also temporarily removed.\n\nWhile \"Thunderbirds\" had run for two series, Lew Grade's unexpected cancellation of the production led Anderson to assume that there was no possibility of \"Captain Scarlet\" lasting for more than one. In Anderson's words, \"I didn't expect it to continue. I simply went to Lew and asked, 'What's the next thing you want us to do?\n\n\"Captain Scarlet\" has generally been viewed as much \"darker\" in tone compared to Gerry Anderson's earlier science-fiction programmes, as Andrew Billen noted in \"New Statesman\" when its remake was broadcast 2005: \"Whereas \"Thunderbirds\" was about rescuing people, \"Scarlet\" was about damnation, the soul of a resurrected man being fought for between Captain Scarlet and the equally indestructible Captain Black. It was Anderson's Gothic period.\" The horror factor of the Mysterons has been recognised, with the depiction of the extraterrestrials giving the series a ranking of 82nd in Channel 4's 2003 list programme \"100 Greatest Scary Moments\". Simon Wickes of the TV Century 21 website asserts that serious writing of the scripts is ultimately due to the realism of the new, accurately-proportioned puppets, and that this aesthetic change also answers for the heightened realism of the series' scale models.\n\nParallels have been drawn between \"Captain Scarlet\" and the Cold War. Historian Nicholas J. Cull interprets the \"war of nerves\" between Earth and Mars as a reflection of the strain on international relations during the 1960s and likens the \"enemy within\" scenario of Martians taking physical control of humans to the plots of such films as \"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\" (1956). According to Mark Bould, the series \"seemed in tune with a decade of civil disobedience and anti-imperialist guerrilla wars\" – a view supported by Rebecca Feasey of the University of Edinburgh, who has written that it is one of a number of series that \"exploited the fears of 1960s America by presenting civil disobedience and the potentially negative impact of new technologies.\" Since 2001, comparisons have been made to the September 11 attacks, as well as the ensuing War on Terror.\n\nTo other reviewers, \"Captain Scarlet\" remains a \"camp classic\" that, in Bould's opinion, relates well to other Anderson productions due to a common depiction of \"a utopian future benefiting from world government, high technology, ethnic diversity, and a generally positive sense of Americanisation. They articulate the commonly made connection between technological developments and economic prosperity.\" He also states that \"Captain Scarlet\" espouses \"Euro-cool consumerism\". The concept of world government is common to Anderson's work and was inspired by his thoughts on the matter at the time: \"I had all sorts of fancy ideas about the future ... we had the United Nations and I imagined that the world would come together and there would be a world government.\" Peter Wright, on the series' depiction of technology, notes the \"qualified technophilia\" that it shares with \"Thunderbirds\".\n\nSince its first appearance, \"Captain Scarlet\" has been criticised for its filming, which has been considered too static due to the problem of moving the Supermarionation puppets convincingly. The return to a 25-minute episode format, as had been the case with series preceding \"Thunderbirds\", has been blamed for a perceived drop in quality of storytelling and a lack of subplots. Concerns have also been raised about the development of the characters: in a 1986 interview, script editor Tony Barwick described \"Captain Scarlet\" as \"hard-nosed stuff\" that lacked humour, stating, \"It was all for the American market and to that extent there was no deep characterisation. [The characters] all balanced one against the other.\" To Jeff Evans, writer of \"The Penguin TV Companion\", it is \"more detailed\"; he explains: \"The agents were given private lives and real identities, and were furnished with other biographical data.\"\n\nScience-fiction author John Peel considers \"Captain Scarlet\" inferior to \"Thunderbirds\", arguing that although the special effects had improved, it was to the detriment of the scriptwriting. He compares this schism to the disappointing reception to Steven Spielberg's \"Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom\" (1984) following the success of \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\" (1981): \"Anderson made the same mistake that George Lucas made, assuming that if the effects were praised in \"Thunderbirds\", the public wanted a show with more effects.\" Peel also finds fault with the nature of Scarlet himself, suggesting that the use of an \"indestructible\" hero made the conclusions to the episodes too predictable. Furthermore, he expresses a concern that Scarlet, who is often seen to risk his life in a bid to thwart Mysteron plots, served as a poor role model to a target audience of impressionable children.\n\nSeen as a cult series by some critics, \"Captain Scarlet\" ranked 33rd in a 2007 \"Radio Times\" poll to determine the greatest science-fiction series of all time. Despite concerns that it is not a true \"children's\" series on account of its \"dark\" tone and violence, it appeared in 51st position in the 2001 Channel 4 list show \"100 Greatest Kids' TV Shows\". Judging \"Captain Scarlet\" next to its immediate predecessor, \"Thunderbirds\", Gerry Anderson's own verdict is unambiguous: \"Nothing was as successful as \"Thunderbirds\". \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\" was very successful, but once you've had a smash hit, everything tends to look less successful in comparison.\"\n\nTurning his attention to Sylvia Anderson's costume design, Bould praises the \"commitment to fashion\" evident throughout the Anderson series, singling out the design of the Spectrum Angel uniforms. The realistic design of the new puppets has been praised by Vincent Terrace and criticised by others. Certain members of the production staff had the impression that they lacked the charm of the earlier generation of puppets due to the authentic proportions that were now being used. Director David Lane's initial thoughts on a prototype, sculpted by head puppet-maker John Brown, were, \"it was as if there was a little dead person in [the box] ... because it was perfect in all its proportions it just looked odd.\" Brown remembers placing the prototype next to the Lady Penelope puppet from \"Thunderbirds\" and gauging the response from colleagues: \"When they saw it, some people were horrified by the difference. Some didn't like it, some did.\" Commentators have noted that facial expression was sacrificed in favour of a realistic design, a result on which Terry Curtis remembers:\n\nSculptor John Blundall has called the new puppet design \"ridiculous\", criticising Anderson's attempts to make the puppets appear more lifelike on the basis that \"We always try to do with puppets what you can't do with humans.\" Expressing a preference for the design \"Thunderbirds\" era, Blundall agrees that the transition from caricature to realism was at the expense of \"character and personality\", asserting that \"If the puppet appears completely natural, the audience no longer has to use its imagination.\" Anderson states that he pushed for the reshaping of the puppets to please viewers, deeming it not \"a case of moving to a new technique, but more a case of incorporating new ideas with existing methods.\" Evans praises the new puppets, describing them as \"perfect in proportion\" and commending the fact the electronic circitry was now in the puppets' bodies.\n\nSumming up \"Captain Scarlet\" as \"better puppets, bigger action and a huge step backwards in stories\" compared to \"Thunderbirds\", Peel disputes the claim that the next generation of puppets mark a failure on the part of the series, arguing that the increased realism could not have deterred an audience familiar with the previous design. Although to his mind the characterisation was less endearing, Peel suggests that it is an over-emphasis on the visual, at the expense of characterisation, that truly accounts for the reduced credibility of \"Captain Scarlet\".\n\nDuring its 1993 UK repeat run, \"Captain Scarlet\" attracted attention with regard to the black-and-white dualism debate for its use of the codenames \"White\" to designate the head of Spectrum, Colonel White, and \"Black\" for the villainous Captain Black. Defending the series against the accusations of racism and political incorrectness, Anderson pointed out that Lieutenant Green, Melody Angel and Harmony Angel are among the heroes of the series in spite of their African and Asian backgrounds. Green is the only male black character to be given a substantial role in any series produced by Anderson.\n\nIn academic works, the diversity of the Spectrum personnel in terms of both race and gender has been viewed highly. Bould praises the series for its \"beautiful, multiethnic, female Angel fighter pilots\" and \"secondary roles played by capable women.\" In an interview conducted in 2003, Anderson confirmed that a conscious effort was made to feature ethnic minorities: \"... I think people who make television programmes have a responsibility, particularly when children are watching avidly and you know their minds can be affected almost irreversibly as they grow up. We were very conscious of introducing different ethnic backgrounds.\"\n\nGuyanese actor Cy Grant, who voiced the character of Lieutenant Green and believed that \"Captain Scarlet\" had positive multicultural value, discussed the allegorical nature of the series. According to him, Christian symbolism was heavily implied, with Colonel White assuming the role of God, opposed by the Devil in the form of Captain Black and descended by Captain Scarlet, who serves as a Christ allegory; moreover, Cloudbase represented Heaven and was guarded by its own fleet of Angels. Grant has also lionised Green as an African trickster hero. On dualism, he argued, \"the 'darkness' of the Mysterons is most easily seen as the psychological rift – the struggle of 'good' and 'evil' – of the Western world as personified by Colonel White and his team. Dark and light are but aspects of each other. Incidentally, green is the colour of nature that can heal that rift.\"\n\nSince the 1960s, the TV series has been supplemented by tie-in merchandise, example products ranging from toy dolls to a driving-themed video game, released for the PlayStation 2 platform in 2006. The ATV game show \"The Golden Shot\", presented by Bob Monkhouse, adopted \"Captain Scarlet\" as the theme for its 1967 Christmas special. Broadcast live on 23 December, the programme featured guest appearances from Francis Matthews and \"The Spectrum\", who performed their latest single, \"Headin' for a Heatwave\".\n\nTo complement the TV episodes, Century 21 released five further \"Captain Scarlet\" stories as audio adventures on vinyl record EPs, each running to approximately 21 minutes, and starring the original voice cast, in 1967. \"TV Century 21\" script editor Angus P. Allan wrote \"Introducing Captain Scarlet\" (which is set during the dénouement to \"The Mysterons\" with the inclusion of flashbacks to provide exposition), \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\" and \"Captain Scarlet of Spectrum\", while \"Captain Scarlet is Indestructible\" and \"Captain Scarlet versus Captain Black\" were scripted by his assistant, Richard O'Neill.\n\nIn the late 1960s, three tie-in novels were published under the pen name \"John Theydon\", a pseudonym for author John William Jennison, titled \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\" (1967), \"Captain Scarlet and the Silent Saboteur\" (1967) and \"The Angels and the Creeping Enemy\" (1968). As implied by its title, the third novel places the focus on the Spectrum Angels as the primary protagonists. Later, in 1993, Young Corgi Books published four novelisations, targeted at children, based upon the original series episodes \"The Mysterons\", \"Lunarville 7\", \"Noose of Ice\" and \"The Launching\".\n\n\"Captain Scarlet\" also formed the basis of three comic strips drawn for the weekly children's comic, \"TV Century 21\". Spanning 17 issues (numbers 141–157) from September 1967 to January 1968, the strip adventures were written by Angus P. Allan with artwork by Ron Embleton, and were titled \"We Will Destroy Unity City\", \"We Will Destroy the Observatory Network\" and \"We Shall Make Earth a Planet of Silence\". Following the end of the TV series, the comic continued the story of the \"Captain Scarlet\" universe, with later strips revealing that the Mysterons deactivate their Martian complex and relinquish their control over Captain Black, while Scarlet himself leaves Spectrum to make use of his powers in the fight against Earth-bound criminals and threats. The Mysterons ultimately re-awaken, prompting Scarlet and Spectrum to resume their struggle.\n\nA manga adaptation of the series, titled \"Captain Scarlet\", ran in the Japanese \"Shōnen Book\" anthology from January to August 1968. Century 21 published annuals based on the series between 1967 and 1969, while the original \"Captain Scarlet\" comic strips were reprinted in the 1968 and 1969 editions of \"TV21 Annual\". Further annuals, published in 1993 and 1994 by Grandreams, coincided with the BBC2 repeats of the TV episodes. In 2002, Carlton Books released a new edition to accompany the digitally remastered broadcasts that had started in 2001.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Carlton Video commercially released the series, as both eight separate volumes and as a \"Complete Series Box Set\", from September 2001 to March 2002. Presented with the same remastered video and audio quality that was introduced for the BBC Two repeats of 2001, the box set incorporates a ninth tape including \"The Indestructible Captain Scarlet\", a special programme that describes Spectrum, the Mysterons and the events of the TV series. Earlier releases, marketed by PolyGram and \"Channel 5\", had numbered the episodes in an order different from that of the 1960s broadcasts and, in the case of the first two volumes, had added to them with the insertion of footage specially filmed for the ITC \"Captain Scarlet\" compilation films of the 1980s.\n\nSince September 2001, \"Captain Scarlet\" has also been available in five volumes on PAL Region 2 DVD, also marketed by Carlton, with a new Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound sound mix to complement the original mono track. Special features for these releases include audio commentaries with Gerry Anderson for the episodes \"The Mysterons\" and \"Attack on Cloudbase\", the five audio episodes from 1967, behind-the-scenes production photos, information about original ITC advertising and merchandise, and 1960s TV spots. As with the VHS releases, the five DVD volumes have also received a box set edition, which incorporates a bonus sixth disc including \"Captain Scarlet S.I.G.\" (a behind-the-scenes documentary produced and presented by Gerry Anderson) and five sets of alternative opening credits.\n\nThe special features of the four-disc NTSC North American Region 1 edition of the box set, released by A&E Home Video in 2002, are mostly similar to those of the Region 2 version, with the additions of a text-based \"Introduction to Captain Scarlet\" and DVD-ROM content. In 2004, Imavision unveiled a French-language edition of the box set aimed at the Canadian market. The set is also available in Japan on Region 2 (as six discs) and Australia on Region 4 (as five discs).\n\nIn September 2017, to coincide with the series' 50th anniversary, Network Distributing announced that it would be releasing \"Captain Scarlet\" on Blu-ray Disc in the UK, with the episodes restored from the original 35 mm film negatives.\n\nNetwork Distributing began digitally remastering the series in high definition for Blu-ray release in 2014. This was achieved using the original master A and B roll 35 mm negatives, which had been cleaned and checked thoroughly prior to scanning.\n\nDistribution rights to much of the ITC Entertainment catalogue have been transferred since the 1980s, initially to PolyGram Entertainment, (or \"PolyGram Television\") then Carlton International in the late 1990s after a partial sale to the BBC in 1991. In 2004, Carlton International merged into Granada International, the current rights holder, which in 2008 was renamed ITV Global Entertainment, a division of ITV plc. Theatrical release rights are held by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM). In addition to other projects, Gerry Anderson announced plans for a live-action film adaptation of \"Captain Scarlet\" in 2000 and again in 2002 during the production of the \"Thunderbirds\" film released in 2004, but the idea has not been developed since.\n\nIn 1980, the New York offices of ITC, under the supervision of Robert Mandell, combined episodes from the original series to make two compilation films for American audiences, with the aim of reviving transatlantic syndication sales. This became common practice for Anderson productions during the 1980s, with made-for-television films comprising episodes of \"Stingray\" and \"Thunderbirds\" airing to US cable audiences under the generic promotional banner of \"Super Space Theater\". On 24 November 1988, the second \"Captain Scarlet\" film, \"Revenge of the Mysterons from Mars\", was broadcast as the second episode of the American television series \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\", from Minneapolis, on station KTMA.\n\nIn 1999, Gerry Anderson supervised the production of a short computer-animated test film, \"Captain Scarlet and the Return of the Mysterons\", to explore the possibility of updating a number of his 1960s Supermarionation series for a 21st-century audience. The working title was \"Captain Scarlet – The New Millennium\". Produced in London by the Moving Picture Company, the film features Francis Matthews and Ed Bishop reprising the roles of Captains Scarlet and Blue. Made using a combination of Maya 3D computer graphics software and motion-capture technology, the plot commences a few years after the Mysterons end their hostilities against Earth, but the reappearance of Captain Black sets the stage for a revival of the war with Mars. Although the film has yet to receive a home video release, it was publicly screened at a Fanderson convention in 2000 and at a science lecture in 2001.\n\nPlans for a full CGI \"Captain Scarlet\" television series to follow the test film finally resulted in \"Gerry Anderson's New Captain Scarlet\". A reboot of the original series, this was first broadcast in the United Kingdom on the Saturday-morning CITV programme, \"Ministry of Mayhem\", from 12 February 2005. Produced by \"Anderson Entertainment\" and the \"Indestructible Production Company\", the animation used to create the series is billed in the credits as \"Hypermarionation\" to acknowledge the 1960s puppet technique, Supermarionation.\n\nFootnotes\nPrimary sources\nSecondary sources\nBibliography\nProduction locations\n\n"}
{"id": "5211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5211", "title": "Christianity", "text": "Christianity\n\nChristianity is a monotheistic Abrahamic religion based on the life and teachings of Jesus. Its adherents, known as \"Christians\", believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, Logos, and savior of humanity, whose coming as the Messiah (Christ) was prophesied in the Old Testament of the Bible, and chronicled in the New Testament.\n\nChristianity began as a Second Temple Judaic sect, in the 1st century, in the Roman province of Judea. Jesus' apostles and their successors, the Apostolic Fathers, spread it across large parts of the Middle East, Europe, Ethiopia, Transcaucasia and some other parts of Asia, despite initial persecution. Emperor Constantine the Great converted to Christianity and decriminalized it in the Edict of Milan (313), later convening the First Council of Nicaea (325) where Early Christianity was consolidated into what would become the state religion of the Roman Empire (380). The council formulated the Nicene Creed (325), and the Church Fathers supervised the compilation of the Christian Bible (5th century). Early statements of essential beliefs were the Apostles Creed and Nicene Creed. The period of the first seven ecumenical councils is sometimes referred to as the Great Church, the united communion of the Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodox Church, and Oriental Orthodoxy before their schisms. Oriental Orthodoxy split after the Council of Chalcedon (451) over differences in Christology, while the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Catholic Church separated in the East–West Schism (1054), especially over the authority of the Pope. Similarly, Protestantism split in numerous denominations from the Catholic Church in the Protestant Reformation (16th century) over theological and ecclesiological disputes.\n\nChristianity and Christian ethics have played a prominent role in the shaping of Western civilization. Christianity was a leading influence on the development of Western civilization in Europe during Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages. Following the Age of Discovery (15th–17th century), Christianity was spread into the Americas, Oceania, Sub-Saharan Africa and the rest of the world via missionary work and colonization.\n\nIt is the world's most populous religious group, with over 2.4 billion followers, or 33% of the global population, comprising a majority of the population in about two-thirds of the countries in the world. \nToday, the four largest branches of Christianity are the Catholic Church (1.3 billion), Protestantism (920 million), the Eastern Orthodox Church (260 million) and Oriental Orthodoxy (86 million).\n\nChristianity grew out of Judaism as a Second Temple Judaic sect in the 1st century in the Roman province of Judea. Other religious influences of early Christianity are Zoroastrianism and Gnosticism. John Bowker states that Christian ideas such as \"angels, the end of the world, a final judgment, the resurrection and heaven and hell received form and substance from ... Zoroastrian beliefs\". Its earliest development took place under the leadership of the remaining Twelve Apostles, particularly Saint Peter, and Paul the Apostle, followed by the early bishops, whom Christians consider the successors of the Apostles.\n\nAccording to the New Testament, Christians were from the beginning subject to persecution by some Jewish and Roman religious authorities. This involved punishments, including death, for Christians such as Stephen and James, son of Zebedee. Further widespread persecutions of the Church occurred under nine subsequent Roman emperors, most intensely under Decius and Diocletian.\n\nFrom the year 150, Christian teachers began to produce theological and apologetic works aimed at defending the faith. These authors are known as the Church Fathers, and study of them is called patristics. Notable early Fathers include Ignatius of Antioch, Polycarp, Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria and Origen.\n\nKing Trdat IV made Christianity the state religion in Armenia between 301 and 314. It was not an entirely new religion in Armenia. It penetrated into the country from at least the third century but may have been present even earlier.\n\nState persecution ceased in the 4th century, when Constantine I and Licinius issued an edict of toleration in 313. At that point, Christianity was still a minority belief comprising perhaps only five percent of the Roman population. Influenced by his adviser Mardonius, Constantine's nephew Julian unsuccessfully tried to suppress Christianity. On 27 February 380, Theodosius I, Gratian, and Valentinian II established Nicene Christianity as the state church of the Roman Empire. As soon as it became connected to the state, Christianity grew wealthy; the Church solicited donations from the rich and could now own land. From at least the 4th century, Christianity has played a prominent role in the shaping of Western civilization.\n\nConstantine was also instrumental in the convocation of the First Council of Nicaea in 325, which sought to address Arianism and formulated the Nicene Creed, which is still used by the Catholic Church, Eastern Orthodoxy, Anglican Communion and many Protestant churches. Nicaea was the first of a series of ecumenical councils which formally defined critical elements of the theology of the Church, notably concerning Christology. The Assyrian Church of the East did not accept the third and following Ecumenical Councils, and are still separate today.\n\nThe presence of Christianity in Africa began in the middle of the 1st century in Egypt, and by the end of the 2nd century in the region around Carthage. Mark the Evangelist is claimed to have started the Church of Alexandria in about AD 43; various later churches and denominations claim this as their own legacy including the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria. Important Africans who influenced the early development of Christianity include Tertullian, Clement of Alexandria, Origen of Alexandria, Cyprian, Athanasius and Augustine of Hippo. The later rise of Islam in North Africa reduced the size and numbers of Christian congregations, leaving in large numbers only the Coptic Church in Egypt, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church in the Horn of Africa and the Nubian Church in the Sudan (Nobatia, Makuria and Alodia).\n\nIn terms of prosperity and cultural life, the Byzantine Empire was one of the peaks in Christian history and Christian civilization, and Constantinople remained the leading city of the Christian world in size, wealth and culture. There was a renewed interest in classical Greek philosophy, as well as an increase in literary output in vernacular Greek. Byzantine art and literature held a pre-eminent place in Europe, and the cultural impact of Byzantine art on the west during this period was enormous and of long lasting significance.\n\nWith the decline and fall of the Roman Empire in the west, the papacy became a political player, first visible in Pope Leo's diplomatic dealings with Huns and Vandals. The church also entered into a long period of missionary activity and expansion among the various tribes. While Arianists instituted the death penalty for practicing pagans (see Massacre of Verden as example), what would later become Catholicism also spread among the Hungarians, the Germanic, the Celtic, the Baltic and some Slavic peoples. Christianity has been an important part of the shaping of Western civilization, at least since the 4th century.\n\nAround 500, St. Benedict set out his Monastic Rule, establishing a system of regulations for the foundation and running of monasteries. Monasticism became a powerful force throughout Europe, and gave rise to many early centers of learning, most famously in Ireland, Scotland and Gaul, contributing to the Carolingian Renaissance of the 9th century.\n\nIn the 7th century Muslims conquered Syria (including Jerusalem), North Africa and Spain, converting some of the Christian population to Islam, and placing the rest under a separate legal status. Part of the Muslims' success was due to the exhaustion of the Byzantine Empire in its decades long conflict with Persia. Beginning in the 8th century, with the rise of Carolingian leaders, the papacy began to find greater political support in the Frankish Kingdom.\n\nThe Middle Ages brought about major changes within the church. Pope Gregory the Great dramatically reformed ecclesiastical structure and administration. In the early 8th century, iconoclasm became a divisive issue, when it was sponsored by the Byzantine emperors. The Second Ecumenical Council of Nicaea (787) finally pronounced in favor of icons. In the early 10th century, Western Christian monasticism was further rejuvenated through the leadership of the great Benedictine monastery of Cluny.\n\nHebraism, like Hellenism, has been an all-important factor in the development of Western Civilization; Judaism, as the precursor of Christianity, has indirectly had much to do with shaping the ideals and morality of western nations since the Christian era.\n\nIn the west, from the 11th century onward, older cathedral schools developed into universities (see University of Oxford, University of Paris and University of Bologna.) The traditional medieval universities—evolved from Catholic and Protestant church schools—then established specialized academic structures for properly educating greater numbers of students as professionals. Prof. Walter Rüegg, editor of \"A History of the University in Europe\", reports that universities then only trained students to become clerics, lawyers, civil servants and physicians.\n\nOriginally teaching only theology, universities steadily added subjects including medicine, philosophy and law, becoming the direct ancestors of modern institutions of learning.\nThe university is generally regarded as an institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian setting. Prior to the establishment of universities, European higher education took place for hundreds of years in Christian cathedral schools or monastic schools (\"Scholae monasticae\"), in which monks and nuns taught classes; evidence of these immediate forerunners of the later university at many places dates back to the 6th century AD.\n\nAccompanying the rise of the \"new towns\" throughout Europe, mendicant orders were founded, bringing the consecrated religious life out of the monastery and into the new urban setting. The two principal mendicant movements were the Franciscans and the Dominicans founded by St. Francis and St. Dominic respectively. Both orders made significant contributions to the development of the great universities of Europe. Another new order were the Cistercians, whose large isolated monasteries spearheaded the settlement of former wilderness areas. In this period church building and ecclesiastical architecture reached new heights, culminating in the orders of Romanesque and Gothic architecture and the building of the great European cathedrals.\n\nFrom 1095 under the pontificate of Urban II, the Crusades were launched. These were a series of military campaigns in the Holy Land and elsewhere, initiated in response to pleas from the Byzantine Emperor Alexios I for aid against Turkish expansion. The Crusades ultimately failed to stifle Islamic aggression and even contributed to Christian enmity with the sacking of Constantinople during the Fourth Crusade.\n\nOver a period stretching from the 7th to the 13th century, the Christian Church underwent gradual alienation, resulting in a schism dividing it into a so-called Latin or Western Christian branch, the Catholic Church, and an Eastern, largely Greek, branch, the Orthodox Church. These two churches disagree on a number of administrative, liturgical and doctrinal issues, most notably papal primacy of jurisdiction. The Second Council of Lyon (1274) and the Council of Florence (1439) attempted to reunite the churches, but in both cases the Eastern Orthodox refused to implement the decisions and the two principal churches remain in schism to the present day. However, the Catholic Church has achieved union with various smaller eastern churches.\n\nIn the thirteenth century a new emphasis on Jesus' suffering, exemplified by the Franciscans' preaching, had the consequence of turning worshippers' attention towards Jews, on whom Christians had placed the blame for Jesus' death. Christianity's limited tolerance of Jews was not new—Augustine of Hippo had said that Jews should not be allowed to enjoy the citizenship that Christians took for granted—but the growing antipathy towards Jews was a factor that led to the expulsion of Jews from England in 1290, the first of many such expulsions in Europe.\n\nBeginning around 1184, following the crusade against the Cathar heresy, various institutions, broadly referred to as the Inquisition, were established with the aim of suppressing heresy and securing religious and doctrinal unity within Christianity through conversion and prosecution.\n\nThe 15th-century Renaissance brought about a renewed interest in ancient and classical learning. Another major schism, the Reformation, resulted in the splintering of the Western Christendom into several branches. Martin Luther in 1517 protested against the sale of indulgences and soon moved on to deny several key points of Catholic doctrine.\n\nOther reformers like Zwingli, Oecolampadius, Calvin, Knox and Arminius further criticized Catholic teaching and worship. These challenges developed into the movement called Protestantism, which repudiated the primacy of the pope, the role of tradition, the seven sacraments and other doctrines and practices. The Reformation in England began in 1534, when King Henry VIII had himself declared head of the Church of England. Beginning in 1536, the monasteries throughout England, Wales and Ireland were dissolved.\n\nThomas Müntzer, Andreas Karlstadt and other theologians perceived both the Catholic Church and the confessions of the Magisterial Reformation as corrupted. Their activity brought about the Radical Reformation, which gave birth to various Anabaptist denominations.\nPartly in response to the Protestant Reformation, the Catholic Church engaged in a substantial process of reform and renewal, known as the Counter-Reformation or Catholic Reform. The Council of Trent clarified and reasserted Catholic doctrine. During the following centuries, competition between Catholicism and Protestantism became deeply entangled with political struggles among European states.\n\nMeanwhile, the discovery of America by Christopher Columbus in 1492 brought about a new wave of missionary activity. Partly from missionary zeal, but under the impetus of colonial expansion by the European powers, Christianity spread to the Americas, Oceania, East Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThroughout Europe, the divides caused by the Reformation led to outbreaks of religious violence and the establishment of separate state churches in Europe. Lutheranism spread into northern, central and eastern parts of present-day Germany, Livonia and Scandinavia. Anglicanism was established in England in 1534. Calvinism and its varieties (such as Presbyterianism) were introduced in Scotland, the Netherlands, Hungary, Switzerland and France. Arminianism gained followers in the Netherlands and Frisia. Ultimately, these differences led to the outbreak of conflicts in which religion played a key factor. The Thirty Years' War, the English Civil War and the French Wars of Religion are prominent examples. These events intensified the Christian debate on persecution and toleration.\n\nIn the era known as the Great Divergence, when in the West the Age of Enlightenment and the scientific revolution brought about great societal changes, Christianity was confronted with various forms of skepticism and with certain modern political ideologies such as versions of socialism and liberalism. Events ranged from mere anti-clericalism to violent outbursts against Christianity such as the dechristianisation of France during the French Revolution, the Spanish Civil War and certain Marxist movements, especially the Russian Revolution and the persecution of Christians in the Soviet Union under state atheism.\n\nEspecially pressing in Europe was the formation of nation states after the Napoleonic era. In all European countries, different Christian denominations found themselves in competition, to greater or lesser extents, with each other and with the state. Variables are the relative sizes of the denominations and the religious, political and ideological orientation of the state. Urs Altermatt of the University of Fribourg, looking specifically at Catholicisms in Europe, identifies four models for the European nations. In traditionally Catholic-majority countries such as Belgium, Spain and to some extent Austria, religious and national communities are more or less identical. Cultural symbiosis and separation are found in Poland, the Republic of Ireland and Switzerland, all countries with competing denominations. Competition is found in Germany, the Netherlands and again Switzerland, all countries with minority Catholic populations who to a greater or lesser extent did identify with the nation. Finally, separation between religion (again, specifically Catholicism) and the state is found to a great degree in France and Italy, countries where the state actively opposed itself to the authority of the Catholic Church.\n\nThe combined factors of the formation of nation states and ultramontanism, especially in Germany and the Netherlands but also in England (to a much lesser extent), often forced Catholic churches, organizations and believers to choose between the national demands of the state and the authority of the Church, specifically the papacy. This conflict came to a head in the First Vatican Council, and in Germany would lead directly to the \"Kulturkampf\", where liberals and Protestants under the leadership of Bismarck managed to severely restrict Catholic expression and organization.\n\nChristian commitment in Europe dropped as modernity and secularism came into their own in Europe, particularly in the Czech Republic and Estonia, while religious commitments in America have been generally high in comparison to Europe. The late 20th century has shown the shift of Christian adherence to the Third World and southern hemisphere in general, with the West no longer the chief standard bearer of Christianity. Approximately 7.1 to 10% of Arabs are Christians, most prevalent in Egypt, Syria and Lebanon.\n\nThere are many important differences of interpretation and opinion of the Bible and sacred tradition on which Christianity is based. Because of these irreconcilable differences in theology and a lack of consensus on the core tenets of Christianity, Catholics, Protestants and Orthodox often deny that members of certain other branches are Christians.\n\nConcise doctrinal statements or confessions of religious beliefs are known as creeds (from Latin \"credo\", meaning \"I believe\"). They began as baptismal formulae and were later expanded during the Christological controversies of the 4th and 5th centuries to become statements of faith.\n\nMany evangelical Protestants reject creeds as definitive statements of faith, even while agreeing with some or all of the substance of the creeds. The Baptists have been non-creedal \"in that they have not sought to establish binding authoritative confessions of faith on one another.\" Also rejecting creeds are groups with roots in the Restoration Movement, such as the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), the Evangelical Christian Church in Canada and the Churches of Christ.\nThe Apostles' Creed is the most widely accepted statement of the articles of Christian faith. It is used by a number of Christian denominations for both liturgical and catechetical purposes, most visibly by liturgical churches of Western Christian tradition, including the Latin Church of the Catholic Church, Lutheranism, Anglicanism and Western Rite Orthodoxy. It is also used by Presbyterians, Methodists and Congregationalists. This particular creed was developed between the 2nd and 9th centuries. Its central doctrines are those of the Trinity and God the Creator. Each of the doctrines found in this creed can be traced to statements current in the apostolic period. The creed was apparently used as a summary of Christian doctrine for baptismal candidates in the churches of Rome.\n\nIts main points include:\n\nThe Nicene Creed was formulated, largely in response to Arianism, at the Councils of Nicaea and Constantinople in 325 and 381 respectively and ratified as the universal creed of Christendom by the First Council of Ephesus in 431.\n\nThe Chalcedonian Definition, or Creed of Chalcedon, developed at the Council of Chalcedon in 451, though rejected by the Oriental Orthodox churches, taught Christ \"to be acknowledged in two natures, inconfusedly, unchangeably, indivisibly, inseparably\": one divine and one human, and that both natures, while perfect in themselves, are nevertheless also perfectly united into one person.\n\nThe Athanasian Creed, received in the Western Church as having the same status as the Nicene and Chalcedonian, says: \"We worship one God in Trinity, and Trinity in Unity; neither confounding the Persons nor dividing the Substance.\"\n\nMost Christians (Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox and Protestant alike) accept the use of creeds, and subscribe to at least one of the creeds mentioned above.\n\nThe central tenet of Christianity is the belief in Jesus as the Son of God and the Messiah (Christ). Christians believe that Jesus, as the Messiah, was anointed by God as savior of humanity and hold that Jesus' coming was the fulfillment of messianic prophecies of the Old Testament. The Christian concept of the Messiah differs significantly from the contemporary Jewish concept. The core Christian belief is that through belief in and acceptance of the death and resurrection of Jesus, sinful humans can be reconciled to God and thereby are offered salvation and the promise of eternal life.\n\nWhile there have been many theological disputes over the nature of Jesus over the earliest centuries of Christian history, generally Christians believe that Jesus is God incarnate and \"true God and true man\" (or both fully divine and fully human). Jesus, having become fully human, suffered the pains and temptations of a mortal man, but did not sin. As fully God, he rose to life again. According to the New Testament, he rose from the dead, ascended to heaven, is seated at the right hand of the Father and will ultimately return to fulfill the rest of Messianic prophecy, including the resurrection of the dead, the Last Judgment and final establishment of the Kingdom of God.\n\nAccording to the canonical gospels of Matthew and Luke, Jesus was conceived by the Holy Spirit and born from the Virgin Mary. Little of Jesus' childhood is recorded in the canonical gospels, although infancy gospels were popular in antiquity. In comparison, his adulthood, especially the week before his death, is well documented in the gospels contained within the New Testament, because that part of his life is believed to be most important. The biblical accounts of Jesus' ministry include: his baptism, miracles, preaching, teaching and deeds.\n\nChristians consider the resurrection of Jesus to be the cornerstone of their faith (see 1 Corinthians 15) and the most important event in history. Among Christian beliefs, the death and resurrection of Jesus are two core events on which much of Christian doctrine and theology is based. According to the New Testament, Jesus was crucified, died a physical death, was buried within a tomb and rose from the dead three days later. \n\nThe New Testament mentions several resurrection appearances of Jesus on different occasions to his twelve apostles and disciples, including \"more than five hundred brethren at once\", before Jesus' Ascension to heaven. Jesus' death and resurrection are commemorated by Christians in all worship services, with special emphasis during Holy Week which includes Good Friday and Easter Sunday.\n\nThe death and resurrection of Jesus are usually considered the most important events in Christian theology, partly because they demonstrate that Jesus has power over life and death and therefore has the authority and power to give people eternal life.\n\nChristian churches accept and teach the New Testament account of the resurrection of Jesus with very few exceptions. Some modern scholars use the belief of Jesus' followers in the resurrection as a point of departure for establishing the continuity of the historical Jesus and the proclamation of the early church. Some liberal Christians do not accept a literal bodily resurrection, seeing the story as richly symbolic and spiritually nourishing myth. Arguments over death and resurrection claims occur at many religious debates and interfaith dialogues. Paul the Apostle, an early Christian convert and missionary, wrote, \"If Christ was not raised, then all our preaching is useless, and your trust in God is useless.\" \n\nPaul the Apostle, like Jews and Roman pagans of his time, believed that sacrifice can bring about new kinship ties, purity and eternal life. For Paul, the necessary sacrifice was the death of Jesus: Gentiles who are \"Christ's\" are, like Israel, descendants of Abraham and \"heirs according to the promise\". The God who raised Jesus from the dead would also give new life to the \"mortal bodies\" of Gentile Christians, who had become with Israel the \"children of God\" and were therefore no longer \"in the flesh\". \n\nModern Christian churches tend to be much more concerned with how humanity can be saved from a universal condition of sin and death than the question of how both Jews and Gentiles can be in God's family. According to both Catholic and Protestant doctrine, salvation comes by Jesus' substitutionary death and resurrection. The Catholic Church teaches that salvation does not occur without faithfulness on the part of Christians; converts must live in accordance with principles of love and ordinarily must be baptized. Martin Luther taught that baptism was necessary for salvation, but modern Lutherans and other Protestants tend to teach that salvation is a gift that comes to an individual by God's grace, sometimes defined as \"unmerited favor\", even apart from baptism.\n\nChristians differ in their views on the extent to which individuals' salvation is pre-ordained by God. Reformed theology places distinctive emphasis on grace by teaching that individuals are completely incapable of self-redemption, but that sanctifying grace is irresistible. In contrast Catholics, Orthodox Christians and Arminian Protestants believe that the exercise of free will is necessary to have faith in Jesus.\n\n\"Trinity\" refers to the teaching that the one God comprises three distinct, eternally co-existing persons; the \"Father\", the \"Son\" (incarnate in Jesus Christ) and the \"Holy Spirit\". Together, these three persons are sometimes called the Godhead, although there is no single term in use in Scripture to denote the unified Godhead. In the words of the Athanasian Creed, an early statement of Christian belief, \"the Father is God, the Son is God and the Holy Spirit is God, and yet there are not three Gods but one God\". They are distinct from another: the Father has no source, the Son is begotten of the Father and the Spirit proceeds from the Father. Though distinct, the three persons cannot be divided from one another in being or in operation. While some Christians also believe that God appeared as the Father in the Old Testament, it is agreed that he appeared as the Son in the New Testament, and will still continue to manifest as the Holy Spirit in the present. But still, God still existed as three persons in each of these times. However, traditionally there is a belief that it was the Son who appeared in the Old Testament because, for example, when the Trinity is depicted in art, the Son typically has the distinctive appearance, a cruciform halo identifying Christ, and in depictions of the Garden of Eden this looks forward to an Incarnation yet to occur. In some Early Christian sarcophagi the Logos is distinguished with a beard, \"which allows him to appear ancient, even preexistent.\"\n\nThe Trinity is an essential doctrine of mainstream Christianity. From earlier than the times of the Nicene Creed, 325, Christianity advocated the triune mystery-nature of God as a normative profession of faith. According to Roger E. Olson and Christopher Hall, through prayer, meditation, study and practice, the Christian community concluded \"that God must exist as both a unity and trinity\", codifying this in ecumenical council at the end of the 4th century.\n\nAccording to this doctrine, God is not divided in the sense that each person has a third of the whole; rather, each person is considered to be fully God (see Perichoresis). The distinction lies in their relations, the Father being unbegotten; the Son being begotten of the Father; and the Holy Spirit proceeding from the Father and (in Western Christian theology) from the Son. Regardless of this apparent difference, the three \"persons\" are each eternal and omnipotent. Other Christian religions including Unitarian Universalism, Jehovah's Witnesses, Mormonism and others do not share those views on the Trinity.\n\nThe Greek word \"trias\" is first seen in this sense in the works of Theophilus of Antioch; his text reads: \"of the Trinity, of God, and of His Word, and of His Wisdom\". The term may have been in use before this time; its Latin equivalent, \"trinitas\", appears afterwards with an explicit reference to the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit, in Tertullian. In the following century the word was in general use. It is found in many passages of Origen.\n\n\"Trinitarianism\" denotes those Christians who believe in the concept of the Trinity. Almost all Christian denominations and churches hold Trinitarian beliefs. Although the words \"Trinity\" and \"Triune\" do not appear in the Bible, theologians beginning in the 3rd century developed the term and concept to facilitate comprehension of the New Testament teachings of God as being Father, Son and Holy Spirit. Since that time, Christian theologians have been careful to emphasize that Trinity does not imply that there are three gods (the antitrinitarian heresy of Tritheism), nor that each hypostasis of the Trinity is one-third of an infinite God (partialism), nor that the Son and the Holy Spirit are beings created by and subordinate to the Father (Arianism). Rather, the Trinity is defined as one God in three Persons.\n\n\"Nontrinitarianism\" (or \"antitrinitarianism\") refers to theology that rejects the doctrine of the Trinity. Various nontrinitarian views, such as adoptionism or modalism, existed in early Christianity, leading to the disputes about Christology. Nontrinitarianism later appeared again in the Gnosticism of the Cathars in the 11th through 13th centuries, among groups with Unitarian theology in the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century, in the 18th-century Enlightenment and in some groups arising during the Second Great Awakening of the 19th century.\n\nChristianity, like other religions, has adherents whose beliefs and biblical interpretations vary. Christianity regards the biblical canon, the Old Testament and the New Testament, as the inspired word of God. The traditional view of inspiration is that God worked through human authors so that what they produced was what God wished to communicate. The Greek word referring to inspiration in is \"theopneustos\", which literally means \"God-breathed\".\n\nSome believe that divine inspiration makes our present Bibles inerrant. Others claim inerrancy for the Bible in its original manuscripts, although none of those are extant. Still others maintain that only a particular translation is inerrant, such as the King James Version. Another closely related view is biblical infallibility or limited inerrancy, which affirms that the Bible is free of error as a guide to salvation, but may include errors on matters such as history, geography or science.\n\nThe books of the Bible accepted by the Orthodox, Catholic and Protestant churches vary somewhat, with Jews accepting only the Hebrew Bible as canonical; there is however substantial overlap. These variations are a reflection of the range of traditions, and of the councils that have convened on the subject. Every version of the Old Testament always includes the books of the Tanakh, the canon of the Hebrew Bible. The Catholic and Orthodox canons, in addition to the Tanakh, also include the deuterocanonical books as part of the Old Testament. These books appear in the Septuagint, but are regarded by Protestants to be apocryphal. However, they are considered to be important historical documents which help to inform the understanding of words, grammar and syntax used in the historical period of their conception. Some versions of the Bible include a separate Apocrypha section between the Old Testament and the New Testament. The New Testament, originally written in Koine Greek, contains 27 books which are agreed upon by all churches.\n\nModern scholarship has raised many issues with the Bible. While the Authorized King James Version is held to by many because of its striking English prose, in fact it was translated from the Erasmus Greek Bible which in turn \"was based on a single 12th Century manuscript that is one of the worst manuscripts we have available to us\". Much scholarship in the past several hundred years has gone into comparing different manuscripts in order to reconstruct the original text. Another issue is that several books are considered to be forgeries. The injunction that women \"be silent and submissive\" in 1 Timothy 2 is thought by many to be a forgery by a follower of Paul, a similar phrase in 1 Corinthians 14, which is thought to be by Paul, appears in different places in different manuscripts and is thought to originally be a margin note by a copyist. Other verses in 1 Corinthians, such as 1 Corinthians 11:2–16 where women are instructed to wear a covering over their hair \"when they pray or prophesies\", contradict this verse.\n\nA final issue with the Bible is the way in which books were selected for inclusion in the New Testament. Other Gospels have now been recovered, such as those found near Nag Hammadi in 1945, and while some of these texts are quite different from what Christians have been used to, it should be understood that some of this newly recovered Gospel material is quite possibly contemporaneous with, or even earlier than, the New Testament Gospels. The core of the Gospel of Thomas, in particular, may date from as early as AD 50 (although some major scholars contest this early dating), and if so would provide an insight into the earliest gospel texts that underlie the canonical Gospels, texts that are mentioned in Luke 1:1–2. The Gospel of Thomas contains much that is familiar from the canonical Gospels—verse 113, for example (\"The Father's Kingdom is spread out upon the earth, but people do not see it\"), is reminiscent of Luke 17:20–21—and the Gospel of John, with a terminology and approach that is suggestive of what was later termed \"Gnosticism\", has recently been seen as a possible response to the Gospel of Thomas, a text that is commonly labelled \"proto-Gnostic\". Scholarship, then, is currently exploring the relationship in the Early Church between mystical speculation and experience on the one hand and the search for church order on the other, by analyzing new-found texts, by subjecting canonical texts to further scrutiny, and by an examination of the passage of New Testament texts to canonical status.\n\nIn antiquity, two schools of exegesis developed in Alexandria and Antioch. Alexandrian interpretation, exemplified by Origen, tended to read Scripture allegorically, while Antiochene interpretation adhered to the literal sense, holding that other meanings (called \"theoria\") could only be accepted if based on the literal meaning.\n\nCatholic theology distinguishes two senses of scripture: the literal and the spiritual.\n\nThe \"literal\" sense of understanding scripture is the meaning conveyed by the words of Scripture. The \"spiritual\" sense is further subdivided into:\n\nRegarding exegesis, following the rules of sound interpretation, Catholic theology holds:\n\nProtestant Christians believe that the Bible is a self-sufficient revelation, the final authority on all Christian doctrine, and revealed all truth necessary for salvation. This concept is known as \"sola scriptura\". Protestants characteristically believe that ordinary believers may reach an adequate understanding of Scripture because Scripture itself is clear (or \"perspicuous\"), because of the help of the Holy Spirit, or both. Martin Luther believed that without God's help Scripture would be \"enveloped in darkness\". He advocated \"one definite and simple understanding of Scripture\". John Calvin wrote, \"all who refuse not to follow the Holy Spirit as their guide, find in the Scripture a clear light\". The Second Helvetic Confession, composed by the pastor of the Reformed church in Zürich (successor to Protestant reformer Zwingli) was adopted as a declaration of doctrine by most European Reformed churches.\n\nProtestants stress the meaning conveyed by the words of Scripture, the historical-grammatical method. The historical-grammatical method or grammatico-historical method is an effort in Biblical hermeneutics to find the intended original meaning in the text. This original intended meaning of the text is drawn out through examination of the passage in light of the grammatical and syntactical aspects, the historical background, the literary genre as well as theological (canonical) considerations. The historical-grammatical method distinguishes between the one original meaning and the significance of the text. The significance of the text includes the ensuing use of the text or application. The original passage is seen as having only a single meaning or sense. As Milton S. Terry said: \"A fundamental principle in grammatico-historical exposition is that the words and sentences can have but one significance in one and the same connection. The moment we neglect this principle we drift out upon a sea of uncertainty and conjecture.\" Technically speaking, the grammatical-historical method of interpretation is distinct from the determination of the passage's significance in light of that interpretation. Taken together, both define the term (Biblical) hermeneutics.\n\nSome Protestant interpreters make use of typology.\n\nThe end of things, whether the end of an individual life, the end of the age, or the end of the world, broadly speaking is Christian eschatology; the study of the destiny of humans as it is revealed in the Bible. The major issues in Christian eschatology are the Tribulation, death and the afterlife, the Rapture, the Second Coming of Jesus, Resurrection of the Dead, Heaven and Hell, Millennialism, the Last Judgment, the end of the world and the New Heavens and New Earth.\n\nChristians believe that the second coming of Christ will occur at the end of time after a period of severe persecution (the Great Tribulation). All who have died will be resurrected bodily from the dead for the Last Judgment. Jesus will fully establish the Kingdom of God in fulfillment of scriptural prophecies.\n\nMost Christians believe that human beings experience divine judgment and are rewarded either with eternal life or eternal damnation. This includes the general judgement at the resurrection of the dead as well as the belief (held by Catholics, Orthodox and most Protestants) in a judgment particular to the individual soul upon physical death.\n\nIn Catholicism, those who die in a state of grace, i.e., without any mortal sin separating them from God, but are still imperfectly purified from the effects of sin, undergo purification through the intermediate state of purgatory to achieve the holiness necessary for entrance into God's presence. Those who have attained this goal are called \"saints\" (Latin \"sanctus\", \"holy\").\n\nSome Christian groups, such as Seventh-day Adventists, hold to mortalism, the belief that the human soul is not naturally immortal, and is unconscious during the intermediate state between bodily death and resurrection. These Christians also hold to Annihilationism, the belief that subsequent to the final judgement, the wicked will cease to exist rather than suffer everlasting torment. Jehovah's Witnesses hold to a similar view.\n\nJustin Martyr described 2nd-century Christian liturgy in his \"First Apology\" (c. 150) to Emperor Antoninus Pius, and his description remains relevant to the basic structure of Christian liturgical worship:\n\nAnd on the day called Sunday, all who live in cities or in the country gather together to one place, and the memoirs of the apostles or the writings of the prophets are read, as long as time permits; then, when the reader has ceased, the president verbally instructs, and exhorts to the imitation of these good things. Then we all rise together and pray, and, as we before said, when our prayer is ended, bread and wine and water are brought, and the president in like manner offers prayers and thanksgivings, according to his ability, and the people assent, saying Amen; and there is a distribution to each, and a participation of that over which thanks have been given, and to those who are absent a portion is sent by the deacons. And they who are well to do, and willing, give what each thinks fit; and what is collected is deposited with the president, who succours the orphans and widows and those who, through sickness or any other cause, are in want, and those who are in bonds and the strangers sojourning among us, and in a word takes care of all who are in need.\n\nThus, as Justin described, Christians assemble for communal worship on Sunday, the day of the resurrection, though other liturgical practices often occur outside this setting. Scripture readings are drawn from the Old and New Testaments, but especially the gospel accounts. Often these are arranged on an annual cycle, using a book called a lectionary. Instruction is given based on these readings, called a sermon, or homily. There are a variety of congregational prayers, including thanksgiving, confession and intercession, which occur throughout the service and take a variety of forms including recited, responsive, silent, or sung. The Lord's Prayer, or Our Father, is regularly prayed.\nSome groups depart from this traditional liturgical structure. A division is often made between \"High\" church services, characterized by greater solemnity and ritual, and \"Low\" services, but even within these two categories there is great diversity in forms of worship. Seventh-day Adventists meet on Saturday, while others do not meet on a weekly basis. Charismatic or Pentecostal congregations may spontaneously feel led by the Holy Spirit to action rather than follow a formal order of service, including spontaneous prayer. Quakers sit quietly until moved by the Holy Spirit to speak.\n\nSome evangelical services resemble concerts with rock and pop music, dancing and use of multimedia. For groups which do not recognize a priesthood distinct from ordinary believers the services are generally led by a minister, preacher, or pastor. Still others may lack any formal leaders, either in principle or by local necessity. Some churches use only a cappella music, either on principle (for example, many Churches of Christ object to the use of instruments in worship) or by tradition (as in Orthodoxy).\n\nNearly all forms of churchmanship celebrate the Eucharist (Holy Communion), which consists of a consecrated meal. It is reenacted in accordance with Jesus' instruction at the Last Supper that his followers do in remembrance of him as when he gave his disciples bread, saying, \"This is my body\", and gave them wine saying, \"This is my blood\". Some Christian denominations practice closed communion. They offer communion to those who are already united in that denomination or sometimes individual church. Catholics restrict participation to their members who are not in a state of mortal sin. Most other churches practice open communion since they view communion as a means to unity, rather than an end, and invite all believing Christians to participate.\n\nWorship can be varied for special events like baptisms or weddings in the service or significant feast days. In the early church, Christians and those yet to complete initiation would separate for the Eucharistic part of the worship. In many churches today, adults and children will separate for all or some of the service to receive age-appropriate teaching. Such children's worship is often called Sunday school or Sabbath school (Sunday schools are often held before rather than during services).\n\nIn Christian belief and practice, a \"sacrament\" is a rite, instituted by Christ, that confers grace, constituting a sacred mystery. The term is derived from the Latin word \"sacramentum\", which was used to translate the Greek word for \"mystery\". Views concerning both which rites are sacramental, and what it means for an act to be a sacrament, vary among Christian denominations and traditions.\n\nThe most conventional functional definition of a sacrament is that it is an outward sign, instituted by Christ, that conveys an inward, spiritual grace through Christ. The two most widely accepted sacraments are Baptism and the Eucharist (or Holy Communion), however, the majority of Christians also recognize five additional sacraments: Confirmation (Chrismation in the Orthodox tradition), Holy orders (ordination), Penance (or Confession), Anointing of the Sick and Matrimony (see Christian views on marriage).\n\nTaken together, these are the Seven Sacraments as recognized by churches in the High Church tradition—notably Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Independent Catholic, Old Catholic, many Anglicans and some Lutherans. Most other denominations and traditions typically affirm only Baptism and Eucharist as sacraments, while some Protestant groups, such as the Quakers, reject sacramental theology. Christian denominations, such as Baptists, which believe these rites do not communicate grace, prefer to call Baptism and Holy Communion \"ordinances\" rather than sacraments.\n\nIn addition to this, the Church of the East has two additional sacraments in place of the traditional sacraments of Matrimony and the Anointing of the Sick. These include Holy Leaven (Melka) and the sign of the cross.\n\nCatholics, Anglicans, Eastern Christians and traditional Protestant communities frame worship around the liturgical year. The liturgical cycle divides the year into a series of seasons, each with their theological emphases, and modes of prayer, which can be signified by different ways of decorating churches, colours of paraments and vestments for clergy, scriptural readings, themes for preaching and even different traditions and practices often observed personally or in the home.\n\nWestern Christian liturgical calendars are based on the cycle of the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, and Eastern Christians use analogous calendars based on the cycle of their respective rites. Calendars set aside holy days, such as solemnities which commemorate an event in the life of Jesus, Mary or the saints, and periods of fasting, such as Lent and other pious events such as memoria or lesser festivals commemorating saints. Christian groups that do not follow a liturgical tradition often retain certain celebrations, such as Christmas, Easter and Pentecost: these are the celebrations of Christ's birth, resurrection and the descent of the Holy Spirit upon the Church, respectively. A few denominations make no use of a liturgical calendar.\n\nChristianity has not generally practiced aniconism, the avoidance or prohibition of devotional images, even if early Jewish Christians and some modern denominations, invoking the Decalogue's prohibition of idolatry, avoided figures in their symbols.\n\nThe cross, today one of the most widely recognized symbols, was used by Christians from the earliest times. Tertullian, in his book \"De Corona\", tells how it was already a tradition for Christians to trace the sign of the cross on their foreheads. Although the cross was known to the early Christians, the crucifix did not appear in use until the 5th century.\n\nAmong the earliest Christian symbols, that of the fish or Ichthys seems to have ranked first in importance, as seen on monumental sources such as tombs from the first decades of the 2nd century. Its popularity seemingly arose from the Greek word \"ichthys\" (fish) forming an acronym for the Greek phrase \"Iesous Christos Theou Yios Soter\" (Ἰησοῦς Χριστός, Θεοῦ Υἱός, Σωτήρ), (Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior), a concise summary of Christian faith.\n\nOther major Christian symbols include the chi-rho monogram, the dove (symbolic of the Holy Spirit), the sacrificial lamb (representing Christ's sacrifice), the vine (symbolizing the connection of the Christian with Christ) and many others. These all derive from passages of the New Testament.\n\nBaptism is the ritual act, with the use of water, by which a person is admitted to membership of the Church. Beliefs on baptism vary among denominations. Differences occur firstly on whether the act has any spiritual significance. Some, such as the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches, as well as Lutherans and Anglicans, hold to the doctrine of baptismal regeneration, which affirms that baptism creates or strengthens a person's faith, and is intimately linked to salvation. Others view baptism as a purely symbolic act, an external public declaration of the inward change which has taken place in the person, but not as spiritually efficacious. Secondly, there are differences of opinion on the methodology of the act. These methods are: by \"immersion\"; if immersion is total, by \"submersion\"; by affusion (pouring); and by aspersion (sprinkling). Those who hold the first view may also adhere to the tradition of infant baptism; the Orthodox Churches all practice infant baptism and always baptize by total immersion repeated three times in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit. The Catholic Church also practices infant baptism, usually by affusion, and utilizing the Trinitarian formula.\n\nJesus' teaching on prayer in the Sermon on the Mount displays a distinct lack of interest in the external aspects of prayer. A concern with the techniques of prayer is condemned as 'pagan', and instead a simple trust in God's fatherly goodness is encouraged. Elsewhere in the New Testament this same freedom of access to God is also emphasized. This confident position should be understood in light of Christian belief in the unique relationship between the believer and Christ through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit.\n\nIn subsequent Christian traditions, certain physical gestures are emphasized, including medieval gestures such as genuflection or making the sign of the cross. Kneeling, bowing and prostrations (see also poklon) are often practiced in more traditional branches of Christianity. Frequently in Western Christianity the hands are placed palms together and forward as in the feudal commendation ceremony. At other times the older orans posture may be used, with palms up and elbows in.\n\n\"Intercessory prayer\" is prayer offered for the benefit of other people. There are many intercessory prayers recorded in the Bible, including prayers of the Apostle Peter on behalf of sick persons and by prophets of the Old Testament in favor of other people. In the Epistle of James, no distinction is made between the intercessory prayer offered by ordinary believers and the prominent Old Testament prophet Elijah. The effectiveness of prayer in Christianity derives from the power of God rather than the status of the one praying.\n\nThe ancient church, in both Eastern Christianity and Western Christianity, developed a tradition of asking for the intercession of (deceased) saints, and this remains the practice of most Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Catholic, and some Anglican churches. Churches of the Protestant Reformation, however, rejected prayer to the saints, largely on the basis of the sole mediatorship of Christ. The reformer Huldrych Zwingli admitted that he had offered prayers to the saints until his reading of the Bible convinced him that this was idolatrous.\n\nAccording to the Catechism of the Catholic Church: \"Prayer is the raising of one's mind and heart to God or the requesting of good things from God.\" The Book of Common Prayer in the Anglican tradition is a guide which provides a set order for church services, containing set prayers, scripture readings, and hymns or sung Psalms.\n\nWith around 2.4 billion adherents, split into three main branches of Catholic, Protestant and Eastern Orthodox, Christianity is the world's largest religion. The Christian share of the world's population has stood at around 33% for the last hundred years, which means that one in three persons on earth are Christians. This masks a major shift in the demographics of Christianity; large increases in the developing world have been accompanied by substantial declines in the developed world, mainly in Europe and North America. According to a 2015 Pew Research Center study, within the next four decades, Christians will remain the world's largest religion; and by 2050, the Christian population is expected to exceed 3 billion.\n\nAs a percentage of Christians, the Catholic Church and Orthodoxy (both Eastern and Oriental) are declining in parts of the world (though Catholicism is growing in Asia, in Africa, vibrant in Eastern Europe, etc.), while Protestants and other Christians are on the rise in the developing world. The so-called \"popular Protestantism\" is one of the fastest growing religious categories in the world. Nevertheless, Catholicism will also continue to grow to 1.63 billion by 2050, according to Todd Johnson of the Center for the Study of Global Christianity. Africa alone, by 2015, will be home to 230 million African Catholics. And if in 2018 the U.N. projects that Africa's population will reach 4.5 billion by 2100 (not 2 billion as predicted in 2004), Catholicism will indeed grow as will other religious groups.\n\nChristianity is the predominant religion in Europe, the Americas and Southern Africa. In Asia, it is the dominant religion in Georgia, Armenia, East Timor and the Philippines. However, it is declining in many areas including the Northern and Western United States, Oceania (Australia and New Zealand), northern Europe (including Great Britain, Scandinavia and other places), France, Germany, the Canadian provinces of Ontario, British Columbia and Quebec, and parts of Asia (especially the Middle East – due to the Christian emigration, South Korea, Taiwan, and Macau).\n\nThe Christian population is not decreasing in Brazil, the Southern United States and the province of Alberta, Canada, but the percentage is decreasing. In countries such as Australia and New Zealand, the Christian population are declining in both numbers and percentage.\n\nDespite the declining numbers, Christianity remains the dominant religion in the Western World, where 70% are Christians. A 2011 Pew Research Center survey found that 76.2% of Europeans, 73.3% in Oceania and about 86.0% in the Americas (90.0% in Latin America and 77.4% in North America) identified themselves as Christians. By 2010 about 157 countries and territories in the world had Christian majorities.\n\nHowever, there are many charismatic movements that have become well established over large parts of the world, especially Africa, Latin America and Asia. Since 1900, primarily due to conversion, Protestantism has spread rapidly in Africa, Asia, Oceania and Latin America. From 1960 to 2000, the global growth of the number of reported Evangelical Protestants grew three times the world's population rate, and twice that of Islam. St. Mary's University study estimated about 10.2 million Muslim convert to Christianity in 2015. as well a significant numbers of Muslims converts to Christianity in Afghanistan, Albania, Azerbaijan Algeria, Belgium, France, Germany, Iran, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Morocco, Russia, Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Turkey, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Kosovo, United States, and Central Asia. It is also reported that Christianity is popular among people of different backgrounds in India (mostly Hindus), and Malaysia, Mongolia, Nigeria, Vietnam, Singapore, Indonesia, China, Japan, and South Korea.\n\nIn most countries in the developed world, church attendance among people who continue to identify themselves as Christians has been falling over the last few decades. Some sources view this simply as part of a drift away from traditional membership institutions, while others link it to signs of a decline in belief in the importance of religion in general. Europe's Christian population, though in decline, still constitutes the largest geographical component of the religion. According to data from the 2012 European Social Survey, around a third of European Christians say they attend services once a month or more, Conversely about more than two-thirds of Latin American Christians and according to the World Values Survey about 90% of African Christians (in Ghana, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa and Zimbabwe) said they attended church regularly.\n\nChristianity, in one form or another, is the sole state religion of the following nations: Argentina (Catholic), Tuvalu (Reformed), Tonga (Methodist), Norway (Lutheran), Costa Rica (Catholic), Kingdom of Denmark (Lutheran), England (Anglican), Georgia (Georgian Orthodox), Greece (Greek Orthodox), Iceland (Lutheran), Liechtenstein (Catholic), Malta (Catholic), Monaco (Catholic), and Vatican City (Catholic).\n\nThere are numerous other countries, such as Cyprus, which although do not have an established church, still give official recognition and support to a specific Christian denomination.\n\n<br>\n<br>\nThe four primary divisions of Christianity are the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodoxy, and Protestantism. A broader distinction that is sometimes drawn is between Eastern Christianity and Western Christianity, which has its origins in the East–West Schism (Great Schism) of the 11th century. However, there are other present and historical Christian groups that do not fit neatly into one of these primary categories.\n\nThere is a diversity of doctrines and liturgical practices among groups calling themselves Christian. These groups may vary ecclesiologically in their views on a classification of Christian denominations. The Nicene Creed (325), however, is typically accepted as authoritative by most Christians, including the Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, and major Protestant, including Anglican denominations.\n\nBy reason of Protestant ecclesiology, ever since its emergence in the 16th century Protestantism comprises the widest diversity of groupings and practices. In addition to the Lutheran and Reformed (or Calvinist) branches of the Reformation, there is Anglicanism after the English Reformation. The Anabaptist tradition was largely ostracized by the other Protestant parties at the time, but has achieved a measure of affirmation in more recent history. Adventist, Baptist, Methodist, Pentecostal and other Protestant confessions arose in the following centuries.\n\nThe Catholic Church consists of those particular Churches, headed by bishops, in communion with the Pope, the Bishop of Rome, as its highest authority in matters of faith, morality and Church governance. Like Eastern Orthodoxy, the Catholic Church, through apostolic succession, traces its origins to the Christian community founded by Jesus Christ. Catholics maintain that the \"one, holy, catholic and apostolic church\" founded by Jesus subsists fully in the Catholic Church, but also acknowledges other Christian churches and communities and works towards reconciliation among all Christians. The Catholic faith is detailed in the \"Catechism of the Catholic Church\".\n\nThe 2,834 sees are grouped into 24 particular autonomous Churches (the largest of which being the Latin Church), each with its own distinct traditions regarding the liturgy and the administering the sacraments. With more than 1.1 billion baptized members, the Catholic Church is the largest Christian church and represents over half of all Christians as well as one sixth of the world's population.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church consists of those churches in communion with the Patriarchal Sees of the East, such as the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople. Like the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church also traces its heritage to the foundation of Christianity through apostolic succession and has an episcopal structure, though the autonomy of its component parts is emphasized, and most of them are national churches.\n\nA number of conflicts with Western Christianity over questions of doctrine and authority culminated in the Great Schism. Eastern Orthodoxy is the second largest single denomination in Christianity, with an estimated 225–300 million adherents.\n\nThe Oriental Orthodox churches (also called \"Old Oriental\" churches) are those eastern churches that recognize the first three ecumenical councils—Nicaea, Constantinople and Ephesus—but reject the dogmatic definitions of the Council of Chalcedon and instead espouse a Miaphysite christology.\n\nThe Oriental Orthodox communion consists of six groups: Syriac Orthodox, Coptic Orthodox, Ethiopian Orthodox, Eritrean Orthodox, Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church (India) and Armenian Apostolic churches. These six churches, while being in communion with each other are completely independent hierarchically. These churches are generally not in communion with Eastern Orthodox Churches with whom they are in dialogue for erecting a communion.\n\nThe Assyrian Church of the East, with an unbroken patriarchate established in the 17th century, is an independent Eastern Christian denomination which claims continuity from the Church of the East – in parallel to the Catholic patriarchate established in the 16th century that evolved into the Chaldean Catholic Church, an Eastern Catholic church in full communion with the Pope. It is an Eastern Christian Church that follows the traditional christology and ecclesiology of the historical Church of the East. Largely aniconic and not in communion with any other church, it belongs to the eastern branch of Syriac Christianity, and uses the East Syriac Rite in its liturgy.\n\nIts main spoken language is Syriac, a dialect of Eastern Aramaic, and the majority of its adherents are ethnic Assyrians. It is officially headquartered in the city of Erbil in northern Iraqi Kurdistan, and its original area also spreads into south-eastern Turkey and north-western Iran, corresponding to ancient Assyria. Its hierarchy is composed of metropolitan bishops and diocesan bishops, while lower clergy consists of priests and deacons, who serve in dioceses (eparchies) and parishes throughout the Middle East, India, North America, Oceania, and Europe (including the Caucasus and Russia).\n\nThe Ancient Church of the East distinguished itself from the Assyrian Church of the East in 1964. It is one of the Assyrian churches that claim continuity with the historical Patriarchate of Seleucia-Ctesiphon – the Church of the East, one of the oldest Christian churches in Mesopotamia.\n\nIn the 16th century, Martin Luther, and subsequently Huldrych Zwingli and John Calvin, inaugurated what has come to be called Protestantism. Luther's primary theological heirs are known as Lutherans. Zwingli and Calvin's heirs are far broader denominationally, and are broadly referred to as the Reformed tradition. The oldest Protestant groups separated from the Catholic Church in the Protestant Reformation, often followed by further divisions.\n\nIn the 18th century, for example, Methodism grew out of Anglican minister John Wesley's evangelical and revival movement. Several Pentecostal and non-denominational churches, which emphasize the cleansing power of the Holy Spirit, in turn grew out of Methodism. Because Methodists, Pentecostals and other evangelicals stress \"accepting Jesus as your personal Lord and Savior\", which comes from Wesley's emphasis of the New Birth, they often refer to themselves as being born-again.\n\nEstimates of the total number of Protestants are very uncertain, but it seems clear that Protestantism is the second largest major group of Christians after Catholicism in number of followers (although the Eastern Orthodox Church is larger than any single Protestant denomination). Often that number is put at more than 800 million, corresponding to nearly 40% of world's Christians. The majority of Protestants are members of just a handful of denominational families, i.e. Adventists, Anglicans, Baptists, Reformed (Calvinists), Lutherans, Methodists and Pentecostals. Nondenominational, evangelical, charismatic, neo-charismatic, independent and other churches are on the rise, and constitute a significant part of Protestant Christianity.\n\nA special grouping are the Anglican churches descended from the Church of England and organized in the Anglican Communion. Some Anglican churches consider themselves both Protestant and Catholic. Some Anglicans consider their church a branch of the \"One Holy Catholic Church\" alongside of the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches, a concept rejected by the Catholic Church, some Eastern Orthodox, and many evangelical Anglicans themselves.\n\nWhile the Anglican, Lutheran and the Reformed branches of Protestantism originated in the Magisterial Reformation, other groups such as the Anabaptists, who often do not consider themselves to be Protestant, originated in the Radical Reformation, and are distinguished by their rejection of infant baptism; they believe in baptism only of adult believers — credobaptism (Anabaptists include the Amish, Apostolic, Bruderhof, Mennonites, Hutterites and Schwarzenau Brethren/German Baptist groups.)\n\nSome groups of individuals who hold basic Protestant tenets identify themselves simply as \"Christians\" or \"born-again Christians\". They typically distance themselves from the confessionalism and creedalism of other Christian communities by calling themselves \"non-denominational\" or \"evangelical\". Often founded by individual pastors, they have little affiliation with historic denominations.<ref name=\"Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life / U.S. Religious Landscape Survey\"></ref>\n\nThe Second Great Awakening, a period of religious revival that occurred in the United States during the early 1800s, saw the development of a number of unrelated churches. They generally saw themselves as restoring the original church of Jesus Christ rather than reforming one of the existing churches. A common belief held by Restorationists was that the other divisions of Christianity had introduced doctrinal defects into Christianity, which was known as the Great Apostasy. In Asia, Iglesia ni Cristo is a known restorationist religion that was established during the early 1900s.\n\nSome of the churches originating during this period are historically connected to early 19th-century camp meetings in the Midwest and Upstate New York. One of the largest churches produced from the movement is The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. American Millennialism and Adventism, which arose from Evangelical Protestantism, influenced the Jehovah's Witnesses movement and, as a reaction specifically to William Miller, the Seventh-day Adventists. Others, including the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), Evangelical Christian Church in Canada, Churches of Christ, and the Christian churches and churches of Christ, have their roots in the contemporaneous Stone-Campbell Restoration Movement, which was centered in Kentucky and Tennessee. Other groups originating in this time period include the Christadelphians and the previously mentioned Latter Day Saint movement. While the churches originating in the Second Great Awakening have some superficial similarities, their doctrine and practices vary significantly.\n\nVarious smaller Independent Catholic communities, such as the Old Catholic Church, include the word \"Catholic\" in their title, and arguably have more or less liturgical practices in common with the Catholic Church, but are no longer in full communion with the Holy See.\n\nSpiritual Christians, such as the Doukhobor and Molokan, broke from the Russian Orthodox Church and maintain close association with Mennonites and Quakers due to similar religious practices; all of these groups are furthermore collectively considered to be peace churches due to their belief in pacifism.\n\nMessianic Judaism (or Messianic Movement) is the name of a Christian movement comprising a number of streams, whose members may consider themselves Jewish. The movement originated in the 1960s and 1970s, and it blends elements of religious Jewish practice with evangelical Christianity. Messianic Judaism affirms Christian creeds such as the messiahship and divinity of \"Yeshua\" (the Hebrew name of Jesus) and the Triune Nature of God, while also adhering to some Jewish dietary laws and customs.\n\nEsoteric Christians regard Christianity as a mystery religion, and profess the existence and possession of certain esoteric doctrines or practices, hidden from the public but accessible only to a narrow circle of \"enlightened\", \"initiated\", or highly educated people. Some of the esoteric Christian institutions include the Rosicrucian Fellowship, the Anthroposophical Society and Martinism.\n\nWestern culture, throughout most of its history, has been nearly equivalent to Christian culture, and a large portion of the population of the Western hemisphere can be described as cultural Christians. The notion of \"Europe\" and the \"Western World\" has been intimately connected with the concept of \"Christianity and Christendom\" many even attribute Christianity for being the link that created a unified European identity.\n\nThough Western culture contained several polytheistic religions during its early years under the Greek and Roman empires, as the centralized Roman power waned, the dominance of the Catholic Church was the only consistent force in Western Europe. Until the Age of Enlightenment, Christian culture guided the course of philosophy, literature, art, music and science. Christian disciplines of the respective arts have subsequently developed into Christian philosophy, Christian art, Christian music, Christian literature etc.\n\nChristianity has had a significant impact on education as the church created the bases of the Western system of education, and was the sponsor of founding universities in the Western world; as the university is generally regarded as an institution that has its origin in the Medieval Christian setting. Historically, Christianity has often been a patron of science and medicine. It has been prolific in the foundation of schools, universities and hospitals, and many Catholic clergy; Jesuits in particular, have been active in the sciences throughout history and have made significant contributions to the development of science. Protestantism also has had an important influence on science. According to the Merton Thesis, there was a positive correlation between the rise of English Puritanism and German Pietism on the one hand and early experimental science on the other. The Civilizing influence of Christianity includes social welfare, founding hospitals, economics (as the Protestant work ethic), politics, architecture, literature, personal hygiene, and family life.\n\nEastern Christians (particularly Nestorian Christians) contributed to the Arab Islamic Civilization during the reign of the Ummayad and the Abbasid by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. They also excelled in philosophy, science, theology and medicine. And many scholars of the House of Wisdom were of Christian background.\n\nChristians have made a myriad of contributions to human progress in a broad and diverse range of fields, including philosophy, science and technology, fine arts and architecture, politics, literatures, music, and business. According to \"100 Years of Nobel Prizes\" a review of Nobel prizes award between 1901 and 2000 reveals that (65.4%) of Nobel Prizes Laureates, have identified Christianity in its various forms as their religious preference.\n\n\"Postchristianity\" is the term for the decline of Christianity, particularly in Europe, Canada, Australia and to a minor degree the Southern Cone, in the 20th and 21st centuries, considered in terms of postmodernism. It refers to the loss of Christianity's monopoly on values and world view in historically Christian societies.\n\nCultural Christians are secular people with a Christian heritage who may not believe in the religious claims of Christianity, but who retain an affinity for the popular culture, art, music and so on related to it. Another frequent application of the term is to distinguish political groups in areas of mixed religious backgrounds.\n\nChristian groups and denominations have long expressed ideals of being reconciled, and in the 20th century, Christian ecumenism advanced in two ways. One way was greater cooperation between groups, such as the World Evangelical Alliance founded in 1846 in London or the Edinburgh Missionary Conference of Protestants in 1910, the Justice, Peace and Creation Commission of the World Council of Churches founded in 1948 by Protestant and Orthodox churches, and similar national councils like the National Council of Churches in Australia which includes Catholics.\n\nThe other way was institutional union with United and uniting churches, a practice that can be traced back to unions between Lutherans and Calvinists in early 19th-century Germany. Congregationalist, Methodist and Presbyterian churches united in 1925 to form the United Church of Canada, and in 1977 to form the Uniting Church in Australia. The Church of South India was formed in 1947 by the union of Anglican, Baptist, Methodist, Congregationalist and Presbyterian churches.\n\nThe ecumenical, monastic Taizé Community is notable for being composed of more than one hundred brothers from Protestant and Catholic traditions. The community emphasizes the reconciliation of all denominations and its main church, located in Taizé, Saône-et-Loire, France, is named the \"Church of Reconciliation\". The community is internationally known, attracting over 100,000 young pilgrims annually.\nSteps towards reconciliation on a global level were taken in 1965 by the Catholic and Orthodox churches mutually revoking the excommunications that marked their Great Schism in 1054; the Anglican Catholic International Commission (ARCIC) working towards full communion between those churches since 1970; and some Lutheran and Catholic churches signing the Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification in 1999 to address conflicts at the root of the Protestant Reformation. In 2006, the World Methodist Council, representing all Methodist denominations, adopted the declaration.\n\nCriticism of Christianity and Christians goes back to the Apostolic Age, with the New Testament recording friction between the followers of Jesus and the Pharisees and scribes (e.g. and ). In the 2nd century, Christianity was criticized by the Jews on various grounds, e.g. that the prophecies of the Hebrew Bible could not have been fulfilled by Jesus, given that he did not have a successful life. Additionally a sacrifice to remove sins in advance, for everyone or as a human being, did not fit to the Jewish sacrifice ritual, furthermore God is said to judge people on their deeds instead of their beliefs. One of the first comprehensive attacks on Christianity came from the Greek philosopher Celsus, who wrote \"The True Word\", a polemic criticizing Christians as being unprofitable members of society. In response, the church father Origen published his treatise \"Contra Celsum\", or \"Against Celsus\", a seminal work of Christian apologetics, which systematically addressed Celsus's criticisms and helped bring Christianity a level of academic respectability.\n\nBy the 3rd century, criticism of Christianity had mounted, partly as a defense against it. Wild rumors about Christians were widely circulated, claiming that they were atheists and that, as part of their rituals, they devoured human infants and engaged in incestuous orgies. The Neoplatonist philosopher Porphyry wrote the fifteen-volume \"Adversus Christianos\" as a comprehensive attack on Christianity, in part building on the teachings of Plotinus.\n\nBy the 12th century, the Mishneh Torah (i.e., Rabbi Moses Maimonides) was criticizing Christianity on the grounds of idol worship, in that Christians attributed divinity to Jesus who had a physical body. In the 19th century, Nietzsche began to write a series of polemics on the \"unnatural\" teachings of Christianity (e.g. sexual abstinence), and continued his criticism of Christianity to the end of his life. In the 20th century, the philosopher Bertrand Russell expressed his criticism of Christianity in \"Why I Am Not a Christian\", formulating his rejection of Christianity in the setting of logical arguments.\n\nCriticism of Christianity continues to date, e.g. Jewish and Muslim theologians criticize the doctrine of the Trinity held by most Christians, stating that this doctrine in effect assumes that there are three Gods, running against the basic tenet of monotheism. New Testament scholar Robert M. Price has outlined the possibility that some Bible stories are based partly on myth in \"The Christ Myth Theory and its problems\".\n\nChristian apologetics aims to present a rational basis for Christianity. The word \"apologetic\" (Greek: ἀπολογητικός \"apologētikos\") comes from the Greek verb ἀπολογέομαι \"apologeomai\", meaning \"(I) speak in defense of\". Christian apologetics has taken many forms over the centuries, starting with Paul the Apostle. The philosopher Thomas Aquinas presented five arguments for God's existence in the \"Summa Theologica\", while his \"Summa contra Gentiles\" was a major apologetic work. Another famous apologist, G. K. Chesterton, wrote in the early twentieth century about the benefits of religion and, specifically, Christianity. Famous for his use of paradox, Chesterton explained that while Christianity had the most mysteries, it was the most practical religion. He pointed to the advance of Christian civilizations as proof of its practicality. The physicist and priest John Polkinghorne, in his \"Questions of Truth\" discusses the subject of religion and science, a topic that other Christian apologists such as Ravi Zacharias, John Lennox and William Lane Craig have engaged, with the latter two men opining that the inflationary Big Bang model is evidence for the existence of God.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37285979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37285979", "title": "Dinkan", "text": "Dinkan\n\nDinkan (Malayalam: ഡിങ്കൻ) is a fictional anthropomorphic superhero mouse who appear in an eponymous Malayalam comic story series in children's magazine \"Balamangalam\". Modern day secular and rationalist Keralites use Dinkan to mock organized religion and religious intolerance.\n\nDinkan (ഡിങ്കൻ) was created by story-writer N. Somashekharan and artist Baby in 1983. Dinkan was one of the earliest superhero characters created in India and it quickly became popular among children. Like Terrytoons created Mighty Mouse and several other superhero characters, Dinkan borrowed a few traits from the iconic DC Comics character Superman.\n\nDinkan was born in Pankila forest, somewhere in Kerala, India. He was a naughty mouse, who wasn't disciplined. During one of his escapades, Dinkan was abducted by aliens from an unknown planet. They conducted experiments on him which ended up giving him superior strength, enhanced senses and the ability to fly. Somehow Dinkan found himself back in Pankila forest and he decided to use his powers for the well-being of animals in the forest.\n\nDinkoism has emerged as a parody religion on social networks organized by some atheists in Kerala, India. This religion celebrates Hyena as their God in an attempt to bring awareness of the fallacies and practices of traditional religions.\n\nBritish Broadcasting Corporation covered the Dinkoist religion in its \"BBCTrending\" Programme. \nBBC reported Dinkoism as an atheist movement with significant growth in the social media. The report was presented by BBC video journalist Alvaro A Ricciardelli.\n\n"}
{"id": "27082200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27082200", "title": "Emblem of Eritrea", "text": "Emblem of Eritrea\n\nThe national emblem of Eritrea was adopted on 24 May 1993 on the occasion of Eritrea's declaration of independence from Ethiopia. The emblem mainly depicts a camel surrounded by a wreath of laurel.\n\nThe modern emblem of Eritrea was adopted 24 May 1993, the date of the declaration of independence from Ethiopia. It shows a scene of a dromedary camel in the desert, which is surrounded by an olive wreath. The camel was the beast of burden used during the war of independence from Ethiopia to transport supplies and goods, and was seen as being instrumental to the movement's success by Eritrean nationalists. The name of the country appears on a scroll towards the bottom of the emblem threefold, in Tigrinya, English and Arabic, three widely spoken languages in the country.\n\nEritrea was first assigned a coat of arms in 1919, when it was a colony of the Kingdom of Italy. The shield was parted in half horizontally, with the top portion displaying a red lion charged on his breast with a white star and the bottom half divided into six wavy bars alternating blue and white. The red lion represents the Italian Kingdom, lions alluding to the Italian King who used the beasts as supporters and red being a common colour associated with Italy and also used by the ruling House of Savoy. The star has long been a symbol of the Italian people, known as the \"Stellone d'Italia\", which protects and guards the nation. The bottom portion displaying blue and white wavy bars is a common heraldic depiction representing water, and alludes to the origins of the colony's name. Eritrea is derived from the Latin \"Erythræa\", the name applied to the Red Sea in antiquity; the colony was named so for its coastline along that body of water.\n\nDuring the Fascist regime of Italy, which began in 1924, the arms were augmented with symbols of the new government: a red chief was added in 1936, which was charged with fasces and laurel wreath. Eritrea was then absorbed into the colony of Italian East Africa in 1936, reducing it to a province of the new and larger colony. The arms of Eritrea made up one field in the arms of Italian East Africa, but without the chief added in 1936. In 1941, when the province was conquered and placed under British administration, the fascist chief was removed and the original arms were again employed. In 1951, the process of annexation by Ethiopia began, and the arms continued in use until the following year.\n\nDuring the annexation period, from 1952 to 1962, an emblem was adopted that consisted of a vertical olive branch encircled by an olive wreath. This emblem is used still on the nation's flag.\n\n"}
{"id": "38496244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38496244", "title": "Engineering disasters", "text": "Engineering disasters\n\nShortcuts in engineering design can lead to engineering disasters. Engineering is the science and technology used to meet the needs and demands of society. These demands include buildings, aircraft, vessels, and computer software. In order to meet society’s demands, the creation of newer technology and infrastructure must be met efficiently and cost-effectively. To accomplish this, managers and engineers have to have a mutual approach to the specified demand at hand. This can lead to shortcuts in engineering design to reduce costs of construction and fabrication. Occasionally, these shortcuts can lead to unexpected design failures.\n\nIn the field of engineering, the importance of safety is emphasized. Learning from past engineering failures and infamous disasters such as the Challenger explosion brings the sense of reality to what can happen when appropriate safety precautions are not taken. Safety tests such as tensile testing, finite element analysis (FEA), and failure theories help provide information to design engineers about what maximum forces and stresses can be applied to a certain region of a design. These precautionary measures help prevent failures due to overloading and deformation.\n\nFailure occurs when a structure or device has been used past the limits of design that inhibits proper function. If a structure is designed to only support a certain amount of stress, strain, or loading and the user applies greater amounts, the structure will begin to deform and eventually fail. Several factors contribute to failure including a flawed design, improper use, financial costs, and miscommunication.\n\nStatic loading is when a force is applied slowly to an object or structure. Static load tests such as tensile testing, bending tests, and torsion tests help determine the maximum loads that a design can withstand without permanent deformation or failure. Tensile testing is common when calculating a stress-strain curve which can determine the yield strength and ultimate strength of a specific test specimen.\n\nThe specimen is stretched slowly in tension until it breaks, while the load and the distance across the gage length are continuously monitored. A sample subjected to a tensile test can typically withstand stresses higher than its yield stress without breaking. At a certain point, however, the sample will break into two pieces. This happens because the microscopic cracks that resulted from yielding will spread to large scales. The stress at the point of complete breakage is called a material’s ultimate tensile strength. The result is a stress-strain curve of the material's behavior under static loading. Through this tensile testing, the yield strength is found at the point where the material begins to yield more readily to the applied stress, and its rate of deformation increases.\n\nWhen a material undergoes permanent deformation from exposure to radical temperatures or constant loading, the functionality of the material can become impaired. This time–dependent plastic distortion of material is known as creep. Stress and temperature are both major factors of the rate of creep. In order for a design to be considered safe, the deformation due to creep must be much less than the strain at which failure occurs. Once the static loading causes the specimen to surpass this point the specimen will begin permanent, or plastic, deformation.\n\nIn mechanical design, most failures are due to time-varying, or dynamic, loads that are applied to a system. This phenomenon is known as fatigue failure. Fatigue is known as the weakness in a material due to variations of stress that are repeatedly applied to said material. For example, when stretching a rubber band to a certain length without breaking it (i.e. not surpassing the yield stress of the rubber band) the rubber band will return to its original form after release; however, repeatedly stretching the rubber band with the same amount of force thousands of times would create micro-cracks in the band which would lead to the rubber band being snapped. The same principle is applied to mechanical materials such as metals.\n\nFatigue failure always begins at a crack that may form over time or due to the manufacturing process used. The three stages of fatigue failure are: \n\nNote that fatigue does not imply that the strength of the material is lessened after failure. This notion was originally referred to a material becoming \"tired\" after cyclic loading.\n\nEngineering is a precise discipline and in order to be precise, communication among project developers is pertinent for a successful product. There are several forms of miscommunication that can lead to a flawed design in a system. There are various fields of engineering that have to intercommunicate when working toward a mutual goal. These fields include civil, electrical, mechanical, industrial, chemical, biological, and environmental engineering. When creating a modern automobile, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, and environmental engineers are required to work together to produce a fuel-efficient, durable product for consumers. If engineers do not adequately communicate among one another, a potential design could have flaws and be unsafe for consumer purchase. Engineering disasters can be a result of such miscommunication. Such disasters include the 2005 levee failures in Greater New Orleans, Louisiana during Hurricane Katrina, the Space Shuttle Columbia disaster, and the Hyatt Regency walkway collapse.\n\nSoftware has played a role in many high-profile disasters.\n\n\nEngineering products and inventions are utilized everyday including computers, microwaves, and elevators. A broken microwave can have limited consequences; however, when larger projects such as infrastructures and airplanes fail, multiple people can be affected which leads to an engineering disaster. A disaster is defined as a calamity that results in significant damage which may include the loss of life. Large-scale engineering disasters are recorded in the history books. Just like any other mistake, these disasters become reminders and guidelines of how to improve and not repeat the same mistakes. In-depth observations and post-disaster analysis have been documented to a large extent to help prevent similar disasters from occurring.\n\nOn the night of July 17, 1981, in Kansas City, Missouri, United States, two suspended walkways of the Hyatt Regency Hotel collapsed, killing 114 people and injuring 200 more. During this calamity, the hotel was hosting a dance competition. There were numerous competition attendants and observers standing and dancing on the suspended walkways when connections supporting the ceiling rods that hoisted both the second and fourth floor walkways across the atrium failed and collapsed onto the crowded first floor atrium below.\n\nDuring investigation after the walkway collapse, architectural engineer Wayne G. Lischka noticed a substantial alteration of the original design. The fabricator constructed a double-rod support system rather than the originally designed single-rod system without approval of the engineering design team. In doing so, the created support beams doubled the loading on the connector which resulted in the failure of the walkway. It was documented that even the single-rod system would have barely supported the expected load and would not have met Kansas City Building Code standards.\n\nThe final analysis of the damage had several conclusions reported including:\n\nThe Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" disaster occurred on January 28, 1986, when the NASA Space Shuttle orbiter \"Challenger\" (OV-099) (mission STS-51-L) broke apart 73 seconds into its flight, leading to the deaths of its seven crew members. Disintegration of the vehicle began after an O-ring seal in its right solid rocket booster (SRB) failed at liftoff.\n\nThe Space Shuttle Columbia disaster occurred on February 1, 2003, while reentering Earth's atmosphere over Louisiana and Texas. The shuttle unexpectedly disintegrated, resulting in the death of all seven astronauts on board. The cause was later discovered to be damage to thermal shielding tiles from impact with a falling piece of foam insulation of an external tank during launch. It was the seventh known instance of this particular piece breaking free during launch. As the shuttle re-entered Earth's atmosphere at a speed of Mach 23 (28,400km/h ; 17,647mph), the wing experienced temperatures of . The damage from the insulation strike experienced during launch proved fatal as the shuttle disintegrated during the mission return. NASA's investigation team found melted aluminum on the thermal tiles and inside edges of the left wing of the spacecraft, supporting the notion that the Columbia's destruction was due to hot gases that penetrated the damaged spot on the wing.\n\nRoger L.M. Dunbar of New York University and Raghu Garud of Pennsylvania State University procured a case description of what missteps NASA had taken that led to the Columbia spacecraft catastrophe. Mission control deemed that foam shedding was a not a safety factor prior to launch, believed damage of the shuttle panels were not a significant issue which in-turn delayed analysis on damages as of January 17, 2003, and denied mission action request between January 18 and 19. It was not until January 24, 2003, that mission control had classified the damage as a problematic issue. These missteps in communication between mission control and the debris assessment team inhibited a proper examination of the damages to the spacecraft.\n\nEarly Liberty ships suffered hull and deck cracks, and a few were lost to such structural defects. During World War II, there were nearly 1,500 instances of significant brittle fractures. Three of the 2,710 Liberties built broke in half without warning. In cold temperatures the steel hulls cracked, resulting in later ships being constructed using more suitable steel.\n\nOn the night of April 26, 1865, the passenger steamboat Sultana exploded on the Mississippi River seven miles north of Memphis, Tennessee. This maritime disaster is categorized as the worst in United States history. The explosion resulted in the loss of 1,547 lives, surpassing the total number of deaths caused by the sinking of the \"Titanic\". The Sultana was overcrowded due to a soldier prisoner exchange towards the end of the United States Civil War. The overcrowding contributed significantly to the high death toll. Another reason for the high number of deaths is that the steamer was made mostly of wood, which was documented to have been completely engulfed in flames approximately seven minutes after the explosion. The explosion happened around midnight which was when the Mississippi River was at flood stage. It was documented that the single metal lifeboat on board the Sultana was thrown from the upperdeck landing on several people swimming from the steamer resulting in further deaths.\n\nThe disaster was believed to be the result of a repaired boiler explosion that led to the explosion of two of the three other boilers. The boiler had been previously found to have had a leak and was improperly repaired by boilermaker R.G. Taylor due to orders from Captain J. Cass Mason because of time constraints in Vicksburg, Mississippi. While chief engineer Nathan Wintringer approved the repaired boiler, Taylor stated that the boiler could not be considered safe since the boiler appeared to be burned from being worked on with too little water. Traveling along the Mississippi River, the boiler exploded causing fire to spread throughout the steamer. The fire on board led to the collapse of both of the Sultana's smokestacks, killing many passengers. The sultanas captain died with the ship.\n\n"}
{"id": "808876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=808876", "title": "Euhemerism", "text": "Euhemerism\n\nEuhemerism () is an approach to the interpretation of mythology in which mythological accounts are presumed to have originated from real historical events or personages. Euhemerism supposes that historical accounts become myths as they are exaggerated in the retelling, accumulating elaborations and alterations that reflect cultural mores. It was named for the Greek mythographer Euhemerus, who lived in the late 4th century BC. In the more recent literature of myth, such as \"Bulfinch's Mythology\", euhemerism is termed the \"historical theory\" of mythology. \n\nEuhemerus was not the first to attempt to rationalize mythology in historical terms, as euhemeristic views are found in earlier writings including those of Xenophanes, Herodotus, Hecataeus of Abdera and Ephorus. However, the enduring influence of Euhemerus upon later thinkers such as Ennius and Antoine Banier identified him as the traditional founder of this school of thought.\n\nIn a scene described in Plato's \"Phaedrus\", Socrates offers a euhemeristic interpretation of a myth concerning Boreas and Orithyia:\n\nSocrates illustrates a euhemeristic approach to the myth of Boreas abducting Orithyia. He shows how the story of Boreas, the northern wind, can be rationalised: Orithyia is pushed off the rock cliffs through the equation of Boreas with a natural gust of wind, which accepts Orithyia as a historical personage. But here he also implies that this is equivalent to rejecting the myth. Socrates, despite holding some euhemeristic views, mocked the concept that all myths could be rationalized, noting that the mythical creatures of \"absurd forms\" such as Centaurs and the Chimera could not easily be explained.\n\nIn the ancient skeptic philosophical tradition of Theodorus of Cyrene and the Cyrenaics, Euhemerus forged a new method of interpretation for the contemporary religious beliefs. Though his work is lost, the reputation of Euhemerus was that he believed that much of Greek mythology could be interpreted as natural or historical events subsequently given supernatural characteristics through retelling. Subsequently Euhemerus was considered to be an atheist by his opponents, most notably Callimachus.\n\nEuhemerus' views were rooted in the deification of men, usually kings, into gods through apotheosis. In numerous cultures, kings were exalted or venerated into the status of divine beings and worshipped after their death, or sometimes even while they ruled. Dion, the tyrant ruler of Syracuse, was deified while he was alive and modern scholars consider his apotheosis to have influenced Euhemerus' views on the origin of all gods. Euhemerus was also living during the contemporaneous deification of the Seleucids and \"pharaoization\" of the Ptolemies in a fusion of Hellenic and Egyptian traditions.\n\nEuhemerus argued that Zeus was a mortal king who died on Crete, and that his tomb could still be found there with the inscription bearing his name. This claim however did not originate with Euhemerus, as the general sentiment of Crete during the time of Epimenides of Knossos (c. 600 BC) was that Zeus was buried somewhere in Crete. For this reason, the Cretans were often considered atheists, and Epimenides called them all liars (see Epimenides paradox). Callimachus, an opponent of Euhemerus' views on mythology, argued that Zeus' Cretan tomb was fabricated, and that he was eternal:\n\nA later Latin scholium on the \"Hymns\" of Callimachus attempted to account for the tomb of Zeus. According to the scholium, the original tomb inscription read: \"The tomb of Minos, the son of Jupiter\" but over time the words \"Minos, the son\" wore away leaving only \"the tomb of Jupiter\". This had misled the Cretans into thinking that Zeus had died and was buried there.\n\nInfluenced by Euhemerus, Porphyry in the 3rd century AD claimed that Pythagoras had discovered the tomb of Zeus on Crete and written on the tomb's surface an inscription reading: \"Here died and was buried Zan, whom they call Zeus\". Varro also wrote about the tomb of Zeus.\n\nHostile to paganism, the early Christians, such as the Church Fathers, embraced euhemerism in attempt to undermine the validity of pagan gods. The usefulness of euhemerist views to early Christian apologists may be summed up in Clement of Alexandria's triumphant cry in \"Cohortatio ad gentes\": \"Those to whom you bow were once men like yourselves.\"\n\nThe \"Wisdom of Solomon\", a deuterocanonical book, has a passage, , giving a euhemerist explanation of the origin of idols.\n\nThe early Christian apologists deployed the euhemerist argument to support their position that pagan mythology was merely an aggregate of fables of human invention. Cyprian, a North African convert to Christianity, wrote a short essay \"De idolorum vanitate\" (\"On the Vanity of Idols\") in AD 247 that assumes the euhemeristic rationale as though it needed no demonstration. Cyprian begins:\n\nCyprian proceeds directly to examples, the apotheosis of Melicertes and Leucothea; \"The Castors [i.e. Castor and Pollux] die by turns, that they may live,\" a reference to the daily sharing back and forth of their immortality by the Heavenly Twins. \"The cave of Jupiter is to be seen in Crete, and his sepulchre is shown,\" Cyprian says, confounding Zeus and Dionysus but showing that the Minoan cave cult was still alive in Crete in the third century AD. In his exposition, it is to Cyprian's argument to marginalize the syncretism of pagan belief, in order to emphasize the individual variety of local deities:\n\nEusebius in his \"Chronicle\" employed euhemerism to argue the Babylonian God Baʿal was a deified ruler and that the god Belus was the first Assyrian king.\n\nEuhemeristic views are found expressed also in Tertullian (\"De idololatria\"), the \"Octavius\" of Marcus Minucius Felix and in Origen. Arnobius' dismissal of paganism in the fifth century, on rationalizing grounds, may have depended on a reading of Cyprian, with the details enormously expanded. Isidore of Seville, compiler of the most influential early medieval encyclopedia, devoted a chapter \"De diis gentium\" to elucidating, with numerous examples and elaborated genealogies of gods, the principle drawn from Lactantius, \"Quos pagani deos asserunt, homines olim fuisse produntur.\" (\"Those whom pagans claim to be gods were once mere men.\") Elaborating logically, he attempted to place these deified men in the six great periods of history as he divided it, and created mythological dynasties. Isidore's euhemeristic bent was codified in a rigid parallel with sacred history in Petrus Comestor's appendix to his much translated \"Historia scholastica\" (written ca. 1160), further condensing Isidore to provide strict parallels of figures from the pagan legend, as it was now viewed in historicised narrative, and the mighty human spirits of the patriarchs of the Old Testament. Martin of Braga in his \"De correctione rusticorum\" wrote idolatry stemmed from post-deluge survivors of Noah's family who began to worship the Sun and stars instead of God. In his view the Greek gods were deified descendants of Noah who were once real personages.\n\nChristian writers during the Middle Ages continued to embrace euhemerism, such as Vincent of Beauvais, Petrus Comestor, Roger Bacon and Godfrey of Viterbo.\n“After all, it was during this time that Christian apologists had adopted the views of the rationalist Greek philosophers. And had captured the purpose for Euhemerism, which was to explain the mundane origins of the Hellenistic divinities. Euhemerism explained simply in two ways: first in the strictest sense as a movement which reflected the known views of Euhemerus' Hiera Anagraphe regarding Panchaia and the historicity of the family of Saturn and Uranus. The principal sources of these views are the handed-down accounts of Lactantius and Diodorus; or second, in the widest sense, as a rationalist movement which sought to explain the mundane origins of all the Hellenistic gods and heroes as mortals.” Other modern theorists labeled Euhemerism as a “subject of classical paganism that was fostered in the minds of the people of the Middle Ages through the realization that while in most respects the ancient Greeks and Roman had been superior to themselves, they had been in error regarding their religious beliefs. An examination of the principal writings in Middle English with considerable reading of literature other than English, discloses the fact that the people of the Middle Ages rarely regarded the so-called gods as mere figments of the imagination but rather believed that they were or had been real beings, sometimes possessing actual power.” (John Daniel Cook)\n\nIn his 2011 book, \"The Christ-Myth Theory and Its Problems\", Robert M. Price supported the Christ myth theory and suggested that the process of searching for a historical Jesus was like euhemerism.\n\nIn the \"Prose Edda\", composed around 1220, the Christian Icelandic bard and historian Snorri Sturluson proposes that the Norse gods were originally historical leaders and kings. Odin, the father of the gods, is introduced as a historical person originally from Asia Minor, tracing his ancestry back to Priam, the king of Troy during the Trojan War. \nAs Odin travels north to settle in the Nordic countries, he establishes the royal families ruling in Denmark, Sweden and Norway at the time:\n\nThus, while Snorri's euhemerism follows the early Christian tradition, the effect is not simply to discredit the divinity of the gods of a religion on the wane, but also (on the model of Virgil's \"Aeneid\") to hint that the 'divinisation' was done in order to legitimize more recent Scandinavian rulers.\n\nEuhemeristic interpretations of mythology continued throughout the early modern period from the 16th century, to modern times. In 1711, the French historian Antoine Banier in his \"Mythologie et la fable expliqués par l'histoire\" (\"The mythology and fables of the ancients, explained\") presented strong arguments for a euhemerist interpretation of Greek mythology. Jacob Bryant's \"A New System or Analysis of Ancient Mythology\" (1744) was also another key work on euhemerism of the period, but argued so from a Biblical basis. Of the early 19th century, George Stanley Faber was another Biblical euhemerist. His work \"The Origin of Pagan Idolatry\" (1816) proposed that all the pagan nations worshipped the same gods, who were all deified men. Outside of Biblical influenced literature, some archaeologists embraced euhemerist views since they discovered myths could verify archaeological findings. Heinrich Schliemann was a prominent archaeologist of the 19th century who argued myths had embedded historical truths. Schliemann was an advocate of the historical reality of places and characters mentioned in the works of Homer. He excavated Troy and claimed to have discovered artifacts associated with various figures from Greek mythology, including the Mask of Agamemnon and Priam's Treasure.\n\nHerbert Spencer embraced some euhemeristic arguments in attempt to explain the anthropocentric origin of religion, through ancestor worship. Rationalizing methods of interpretation that treat some myths as traditional accounts based upon historical events are a continuous feature of some modern readings of mythology.\n\nThe twentieth century poet and mythographer Robert Graves offered many such \"euhemerist\" interpretations in his telling of \"The White Goddess\" (1948) and \"The Greek Myths\" (1955). His suggestions that such myths record and justify the political and religious overthrow of earlier cult systems have been widely criticized and are rejected by most scholars.\n\n"}
{"id": "33150436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33150436", "title": "European Association for Digital Humanities", "text": "European Association for Digital Humanities\n\nThe European Association for Digital Humanities (EADH), formerly known as the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC), is a digital humanities organisation founded in London in 1973. Its purpose is to promote the advancement of education in the digital humanities through the development and use of computational methods in research and teaching in the Humanities and related disciplines, especially literary and linguistic computing. In 2005, the Association joined the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO).\n\nA precursor for the later following annual conferences of the association was a meeting on literary and linguistic computing organized by Roy Wisbey and Michael Farringdon at the University of Cambridge in March, 1970. The year after the second conference in Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1972, the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing was founded at a meeting at King's College, London (1973). Together with the Association for Computers and the Humanities (ACH) and the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL), the Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing sponsored and organized the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) in 1987.\n\nIn December 2011 the Association's name was changed to the European Association for Digital Humanities, while keeping the allc.org domain name. The change to 'EADH' was made in 2013.\n\nThe first conferences of the association were held annually until 1988, when a protocol was agreed with the Association for Computing in the Humanities for co-sponsorship of joint international conferences. The venue for these joint conferences alternated between Europe and North America. The first one took place in 1989 at the University of Toronto in Canada. After the Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations had been formed in 2005, the first joint conference with the new name “Digital Humanities” was held at the Sorbonne in Paris, France, in 2006.\n\nInitially, EADH published its own \"Bulletin\" three times a year; its journal twice yearly from 1980 to 1985. Afterwards, bulletin and journal were merged in order to become \"Literary and Linguistic Computing\" (LLC) in 1986. Literary and Linguistic Computing is a peer-reviewed, international journal that publishes texts \"on all aspects of computing and information technology applied to literature and language research and teaching.\"\nMembership of the association is by subscription to LLC. As of December 2010 there were 314 individual subscribers to Literary and Linguistic Computing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "215905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=215905", "title": "Five-Percent Nation", "text": "Five-Percent Nation\n\nThe Five-Percent Nation, sometimes referred to as NGE or NOGE, the Nation of Gods and Earths, or the Five Percenters, is a movement founded in 1964 in the Harlem section of the borough of Manhattan, New York City, by a former member of the Nation of Islam (NOI), Clarence 13X, who was named Clarence Edward Smith at birth, and who ultimately came to be known as Allah the Father.\n\nAllah the Father, a former student of Malcolm X, left the NOI after a dispute with Elijah Muhammad over Elijah's teaching that the white man was the devil, yet not teaching that the black man was God. Allah the Father also rejected the assertion that Nation's light-skinned founder, Wallace Fard Muhammad, was Allah and instead taught that the black man was himself God personified. Members of the group call themselves Allah's Five Percenters, which reflects the concept that ten percent of the people in the world know the truth of existence, and those elites and agents opt to keep eighty-five percent of the world in ignorance and under their controlling thumb; the remaining five percent are those who know the truth and are determined to enlighten the eighty-five percent.\n\nThe New York City areas of Harlem (\"Mecca\") and Brooklyn (\"Medina\") were named after notable Islamic cities by members of the organization. Other areas include Detroit (\"D-Mecca\"), New Jersey (\"New Jerusalem\"), Chicago (\"C-Medina\"), Queens (\"the Desert\"), Connecticut (\"New Heaven\"), St. Louis (\"Saudi\"), Seattle (\"Morocco\"), New Rochelle (\"Now Rule\"), and Dallas (\"Sudan\").\n\nThe Nation of Gods and Earths teaches that black people are the original people of the planet Earth, and therefore they are the fathers (\"Gods\") and mothers (\"Earths\") of civilization. The Nation teaches that Supreme Mathematics and Supreme Alphabet, a set of principles created by Allah the Father, is the key to understanding humankind's relationship to the universe. The Nation does not believe in a mystery God but instead teaches that the Asiatic Blackman is God and his proper name is \"Allah\", the Arabic word for \"God\".\n\nThe Nation of Gods and Earths was founded by Allah the Father after he left the Nation of Islam's Temple Number Seven in Harlem, New York (the same temple where Malcolm X was a minister from 1960 to 1963). Multiple stories exist as to why the father and the NOI parted ways: some have him refusing to give up gambling; others have him questioning the unique divinity of Wallace Fard Muhammad, whom the NOI deified as the True and Living God in person; or his questioning of Fard's Godhood due to the fact that Fard was born of a Caucasian mother. The story states that Allah the Father was then disciplined by the NOI and excommunicated in 1963, but another version of events says that he left on his own free will along with Abu Shahid, who agreed with Allah's questioning of Wallace Fard Muhammad. That same year Allah met James Howell, a sea merchant, who would later become known as Justice, and Allah's closest associate until his death.\n\nAllah the Father proselytized the streets of Harlem to teach others his views based on his interpretation of NOI teachings. After failing to reach elder adults whom he saw as already set in their ways, he found success with street youth. On October 10, 1964, this young group formed the First Nine Born of what became known as the Five Percent Nation, or later the Nation of Gods and Earths.\n\nHe taught 120 Lessons to his young students (who came to refer to him as the Father), but instead of teaching the young men to be Muslims, he taught them that they were God the same as he was. The women who came into Allah's growing movement to study along with the males were taught they were symbolic of the planet Earth, because women produce and sustain human existence as does the Earth. The NGE does not consider itself a religion—its position is that it makes no sense to be religious or to worship or deify anyone or anything outside of oneself because adherents, themselves, are the highest power in the known universe, both collectively and individually.\n\nPrimarily, Allah the Father taught a system he developed called Supreme Mathematics. In this system, the numbers from one to nine, as well as zero, all represent principles and concepts. Coming together to discuss the Supreme Mathematics is the most fundamental regimen of the NGE. When Gods and Earths meet, they discuss the Supreme Mathematics and 120 Lessons and relate them to life.\n\nThe schism between Allah the Father and the NOI led to numerous confrontations. The assassination of Allah in a Harlem housing complex in 1969 remains a mystery. The murder was a blow to the movement, but according to the direct orders of Allah before his death, some of his earliest disciples, a group of nine men who were called the First Nine Born carried on the teachings, and his friend Justice assumed an acting leadership role. In the years to follow, the Gods and Earths gained a reputation and even at one time quelled a potential rebellion when Martin Luther King was assassinated.\n\nThe gang identification has caused much trouble for adherents to the teachings of the NGE in the United States. As the Nation has either gained students within the prison system or seen those who at least allege adherence to NGE teachings become incarcerated, the preceding gang reputation brought those with even remote NGE affiliation to be designated as security threats in states such as Michigan, New Jersey, New York, and South Carolina. Literature has been banned from institutions in these and other states, and inmates have been denied privileges enjoyed by those of other persuasions. Such rules were relaxed in 2004 in New York to allow registered sincere adherents to study teachings personally but not share with unregistered inmates during their incarceration.\n\nThe Nation has tried to answer these accusations by denying them. Its newspaper \"The Five Percenter\" condemns the states who impose restrictions on their practice as those who \"attempt to define us in ways that seeks to criminalize us\".\n\nIn Michigan, the Nation challenged a ban on the group's literature among prison inmates after an inmate was designated a security threat until he renounced his membership. Judge Steven Whalen found no evidence that group advocated violence and recommended that it be recognized as a legitimate belief system.\n\nIn July 2008, a man in Staten Island, New York already known in the Nation as Black Cream Allah was denied a legal adoption of the name because a judge felt it was sacrilegious and sounded like the name of a hip hop record. He has since filed a second petition for the amended name Original Kreeam Shabazz.\n\nThe men of the Five Percent Nation view themselves as Gods (both individually and collectively as the Original Man). Gods and Earths sometimes refer to themselves as scientists, implying their search for knowledge and proof. According to the \"Five Percenter Newspaper\", \"God first means that it is no longer a judicial argument; centered means everything we do is about God. Culture is the practices and principles of a people at any given time.\"\n\nThe teachings of the Nation of Gods and Earths are passed on through a modern oral tradition. The advancement of a God or Earth is based on his or her memorization, recitation, comprehension, and practical application of the Supreme Mathematics and the Supreme Alphabet and also the 120 Lessons, sometimes referred to as degrees, a revised version of the Supreme Wisdom lessons of the NOI, originally written by Wallace Fard Muhammad and Elijah Muhammad. The anthology \"Knowledge of Self: A Collection of Wisdom on the Science of Everything in Life\" by Supreme Understanding details the teachings of the Nation of Gods and Earths. Wakeel Allah has written \"In the Name of Allah: A History of Clarence 13X and the 5 Percenters\" and \"The Naked Truth: From the Goal Mind of Abu Shahid, the Elder of the Nation of Gods and Earths\".\n\nThe term Five Percent comes from NOI doctrine that sees the world's population divided into three groups: 85% of the people are blind to the knowledge of themselves and God, while 10% of the people know the truth, but teach a lie for their personal gain; seen as part of this 10% are religious leaders that teach that God is an incorporeal being (hence the term mystery God). The 10% can also include the governments of the world that deceive and mislead the majority of the world through most of the available media outlets. The remaining 5% are the Poor Righteous Teachers—those who do not subscribe to the teachings of the 10%, as they know and teach that God is the Asiatic Black man.\n\nThe Supreme Mathematics and Supreme Alphabet are key concepts in the Five Percent Nation. The Supreme mathematics is a system of understanding numerals alongside concepts and qualitative representations that are used along with the Supreme Alphabet. The Supreme Mathematics is thought to be the highest system of numerology in the NGE, used to give qualitative value to numbers in addition to quantity. How the values associated with each number were derived are currently unknown. The numerals are as follows:\n\n\nThe Supreme Alphabet is a system of interpreting text and finding deeper meaning from the NOI Lessons by assigning actual meanings to the letters of the Latin script. For example, the first letter, A, stands for Allah; the 12th letter, L, stands for Love, Hell, or Right; and the 13th letter, M, stands for Master. This Supreme Alphabet was developed with assistance from Justice Cee by Allah the Father. The method by which letters were associated with certain values is unknown.\n\nThe Five-Percent Nation holds events known as Universal Parliaments in various cities—usually once a month—to build on their interpretation of the Supreme Mathematics, lessons, and to discuss business concerning the NGE. These meetings usually take place in public areas and can be held anywhere.\n\nThe Show and Prove is an annual event that takes place in the Harlem section of Manhattan every second weekend in June. Gods and Earths converge from all over the world at Harriet Tubman Elementary School for this gathering, which includes a marketplace, performances, and speeches in the school's auditorium and a science fair in which children participate.\n\nThe Nation generally does not recognize traditional holidays, most notably those associated with religion such as Christmas or Easter. Instead, they change the meaning and celebrate how they want to. However, some regions where the Nation is active may hold events close to dates in honor of Allah the Father's birthday (February 22) or the official founding of the Nation (October 10).\n\nDietary laws of the Five Percent dictate that adherents are forbidden to eat pork or any pork-based by-products as well as all other scavengers (shrimp, crab, lobster, etc.). Many take further steps and eschew meat altogether, often opting for veganism or a raw food diet.\n\nThe Five Percent is not a monolithic entity with a rigid ideology. Consequently, it is not possible to posit that Five Percenters all believe or espouse a particular thing. Each member is considered divine in his or her own right and, thus, establishes a way of life, philosophy, ontology, epistemology to fit one's existence based on one's study and personal and community analysis of particular laws, lessons, and sciences. The Gods' personal and communal intellectual development occurs through personal study of lessons, \"builds\" in local ciphers, and \"Educational Show and Prove\" sessions at Universal Parliaments. In \"Manifestations of Masculine Magnificence: Divinity in Africana Life, Lyrics, and Literature\", Teresa Washington writes: \n\n[I]t is easy to assume that there is one single Five Percent doctrine. But the secret of the Nation's longevity and vitality is that it revolves around the acknowledged and respected autonomous power of the Divine and the ability of the Divinities to reason and exchange information to facilitate intellectual growth and philosophical and scientific enlightenment. The cipher is central to the Gods because it where knowledge is continually and holistically born. The resilience and relevance of the Gods is a direct result of the fact that they are not a monolithic group with a corpus of edicts and beliefs.\n\nThe NGE has been portrayed as racist and anti-Caucasian; however, the nation's associations, membership, and principals reveal this portrayal to be inaccurate. Allah the Father, stated repeatedly that he was \"neither pro-black nor anti-white.\" Allah's principles regarding race are echoed in various NGE literature and testimonies: In his \"National Statement\" given at Brookdale College in Monmouth County New Jersey in 1998, Dumar Wa'de Allah stated \"... we are not anti-white, nor pro-black. In fact, we have white Five Percenters.\" NGE websites and articles also state \"We as a collective are not anti-white nor pro-black. We are pro-righteous and anti-devilishment.\"\n\nAllah the Father worked closely with John V. Lindsay, the Mayor of New York from 1966-1973, and his aide, journalist Barry Gottehrer. The Allah School in Mecca (New York), which was previously known as the Street Academy, was founded in 1966 through the Urban League with the help of Lindsay, who was the mayor of New York during that time, and Gottehrer. Wakeel Allah's \"In the Name of Allah\" includes photographs of Allah the Father along with Mayor John Lindsay and a group of Five Percenters on an airplane ride to a civic event organized by the mayor. There have been, from the organization's inception, and there are presently many Caucasian Five Percenters; however, the most well-known is John Michael Kennedy, a Caucasian youth who Allah met, educated, and renamed Azreal. Michael M. Knight's \"The Five Percenters\" includes a photo of a gathering of Five Percenters that includes Barkim, who Knight describes as \"one of the earliest white Five Percenters\" and his siblings. Knight's book also includes two photos of Allah with Gottehrer, who Allah called \"Moses.\"\n\nSome Five Percenters have been accused of promoting chauvinism and misogyny. According to Prince Allah Cuba, since the death of Allah the Father, some Gods have grown preoccupied with male supremacy since the death of Allah, and this preoccupation has resulted in the minimization of all things female—from the crescent moon on the nation's flag being made smaller and eventually nearly hidden by the seven, to the lack of parity in the God-Earth dyad. According to the Five Percent Nation each member constitutes a divine being in his or her own right; consequently, while some males have attempted to promote the minimization of women, others describe the Black woman as the Black man's equal. Mecca, a Five Percenter and the female lyricist of the rap group Digable Planets, offers an explication of not only the equality of women but also of their indispensability—for without woman, no man can exist:\n\nWe need to know that there is a feminine and masculine principal or consciousness that is considered the God or the Creator. It's not a male, like religion will tell you. It's a mother/father principle, a masculine/feminine principle.The feminine principle is what gives birth to the universe. It's what brings creation forth, so there has to be an acknowledgement and respect for her in order to bring back the balance. In religion, in Christianity and in Islam, in all religions ... it's a perverted piece of the truth, when it doesn't hold the woman on a pedestal.\n\nIn a similar vein, Just I C Equality Allah asserts that gender equality is an inherent aspect of ALLAH: \n\nWe all have the components that make the physical. Allah is the all in all. How can we be the all in all if \"all\" isn't included? \n\nNeither Allah the Father nor Justice considered women to be subordinate to men. Justice declared that a Five Percenter named Tawanna had knowledge so deep that she was \"more God than some of the men!\"\n\nIn its article on Five Percenter Jay Electronica, \"Vice Magazine\" stated in regard to the Five Percent Nation: \"It's a movement that's been affiliated with hip-hop from the very beginning, coining terms like 'ciphers' and 'dropping science' and influencing everyone, World's Famous Supreme Team, Big Daddy Kane, Jay-Z, Rakim, Wu-Tang Clan, Brand Nubian, Common, Poor Righteous Teachers, Nas, and AZ. With these artists, and any others associated with the Five Percenters, music was more than just a message.\"\n\nThe Nation of Gods and Earth has propagated its teachings throughout the United States and abroad. In the early 1980s, this spread was in part due to early adherents teaching when away at college or in the military and, more famously, because of the rise of hip hop music. The main theme of the NGE doctrine spoken on hip hop records were the teachings that black people were the original or first human life to walk the planet, that the Blackman is God, the Blackwoman is Earth, and through the inner esoteric powers of the Gods and Earths, the youth can transform and possess its true potential, which aspires to overthrow the overbearing oligarchy by becoming just rulers of themselves. This especially meshed well with conscious themes found in other golden-age hip hop recordings.\n\nEarly hip-hop acts affiliated with the Five Percenters, and who spread its teachings through hip hop, include two MCs of the late 1980s–early '90s conscious-rap era—Rakim of Eric B. & Rakim and Big Daddy Kane. These two acts, as well as some of their other contemporaries, infused Five-Percent teachings and symbolism throughout their music and videos. This reputation brought fans of Rakim in particular to refer to him as the God MC. Not soon after Rakim and Kane's heyday rose acts that were even more explicit with allegiance to the NGE, most notably Brand Nubian, Poor Righteous Teachers, Wu-Tang Clan, Killarmy, Sunz of Man, Gravediggaz and Busta Rhymes. The popularity of these acts sparked a boom of new NGE students. Even the Caucasian hip hop group 3rd Bass cited NGE lessons in the song \"Triple Stage Darkness\" and other songs.\n\nFive Percenters were the innovators behind early hip-hop slang, including \"Word is bond\", \"Break it down\", \"peace\", \"droppin' science\", and \"represent\". Many MCs employ the technique and terminology of the Supreme Alphabet to create acrostics, acronyms and backronyms in their rhymes. For example, in the song \"Wildflower,\" Ghostface Killah rhymes, \"I'm God Cipher Divine,\" spelling G-O-D in the Supreme Alphabet. Furthermore, The RZA directly rhymes the Twelve Jewels of life's objectives on his later work with Gravediggaz, rhyming in succession: Knowledge, Wisdom, Understanding, Freedom, Justice, Equality, Food, Clothing, Shelter, Love, Peace, Happiness. He regularly wears an eight-pointed star pendant with a number seven and a crescent, which can be seen on the cover of his album \"The World According to RZA\".\n\nFive Percenters in New York City were even known as a visible presence at parties during hip hop's formative years of the 1970s. Scene pioneer DJ Kool Herc recalled that while there was a heavy gang presence in attendance, the Five Percenters were also there as a \"de facto\" peace-keeping element.\n\nOther examples of hip hop and R&B acts who are (or have been) associated with Five Percent teachings include Killah Priest, Digable Planets, J-Live, Nas, Erykah Badu, Queen Latifah, Planet Asia, the Guru, and Petey Pablo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459167", "title": "Flag of Latvia", "text": "Flag of Latvia\n\nThe national flag of Latvia () was used by independent Latvia from 1918 until the country was occupied by the Soviet Union in 1940. Its use was suppressed during Soviet rule. Shortly before regaining its independence, Latvia re-adopted on 27 February 1990 the same red-white-red flag.\n\nThough officially adopted in 1923, the Latvian flag was in use as early as the 13th century. The red colour is sometimes described as symbolizing the readiness of the Latvians to give the blood from their hearts for freedom and their willingness to defend their liberty. An alternative interpretation, according to one legend, is that a Latvian leader was wounded in battle, and the edges of the white sheet in which he was wrapped were stained by his blood. The white stripe may stand for the sheet that wrapped him. This story is similar to the legend of the origins of the flag of Austria.\n\nThe red-white-red Latvian flag () is first mentioned in the medieval \"Rhymed Chronicle of Livonia\" (\"Livländische Reimchronik\"), which covers the period from 1180 to 1343, and is thus among the oldest flags in the world. The chronicle tells of a battle that took place around 1279, in which ancient Latvian tribes from Cēsis, a city in the northern part of modern-day Latvia, went to war, bearing a red flag with a white stripe.\n\nLegend recounts the story of the mortally wounded chief of a Latvian tribe who was wrapped in a white sheet. The part of the sheet on which he was lying remained white, but the two edges were stained in his blood. During the next battle the bloodstained sheet was used as a flag. According to the legend this time the Latvian warriors were successful and drove the enemy away. Ever since then Latvian tribes have used these colours.\n\nBased on the aforementioned historical record, the present day flag design was adapted by artist Ansis Cīrulis in May 1917. The Latvian national flag, together with the national coat of arms was affirmed in this format by a special parliamentary decree of the Republic of Latvia passed on 15 June 1921.\n\nDuring the period of occupation by the Soviet Union (and briefly by Nazi Germany), the red-white-red Latvian flag was rendered useless from 1940-1941 and 1944-1991. Any production and public display of the nationalist Latvian flag was considered anti-state crime and punishable by law. The first flag of Soviet Latvia was a red flag with the gold hammer and sickle in the top-left corner, with the Latin characters LPSR (\"Latvijas Padomju Sociālistiskā Republika\") above them in gold in a serif font. In 1953, the final version of the flag was adopted. It depicts the Soviet flag with six 1/3 blue wavy bands representing the sea on the bottom.\n\nUnder the influence of Mikhail Gorbachev's \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\" initiatives, the flag of independent Latvia was restored on 15 February 1990, one and a half years before the formal recognition of Latvian independence.\n\nPer Latvian law \"The Latvian national flag is carmine red with white horizontal stripe.\" () The colour on the flag is sometimes referred to as \"Latvian red\". The red colour of the Latvian flag is a particularly dark shade, which is composed of brown and purple. The flag's colour proportions are 2:1:2 (the upper and lower red bands each being twice as wide as the central white band), and the ratio of the height of the flag to its width is fixed at 1:2.\n\nLatvian law states that the flag and national colours can be displayed and used as an ornament if proper respect to the flag is guaranteed. Destruction, disrespectful treatment or incorrect display of the flag is punishable by law.\n\nThe flag shall be placed at least above the ground and properly secured to the flagstaff. The flagstaff shall be longer than the longest side of the flag, straight, painted white, and preferably made of wood. The finial at the tip of the flagstaff shall be wider than the flagstaff. Where the flag is not displayed continuously, it shall be raised at sunrise and lowered at sunset. If flown for a festival or funeral, it shall be raised before and lowered after the end of the occasion.\n\nIf the flag is flown from a flagpole in mourning, it shall be raised to half-staff. If fixed to a flagstaff, a black ribbon whose width is the width of the flag shall be secured to the flagstaff above the flag; the ribbon shall be of sufficient length to span the width of the flag.\n\n\nThe Standard of the President is white with the rectangular cross in the colour proportions of the national flag. In the centre of the cross covering the interruption of the colours of the national flag there is the Coat of Arms of Latvia. The height of the Coat of Arms is of the width of the Standard, the centre of the sun depicted on the shield of the Coat of Arms is in the centre of the Standard. The proportion between the width of the national colours and that of the Standard is 1:5. The proportion between the length and width of the Standard is 3:2.\n\nThe Standard of the Prime Minister of Latvia is white with the symmetric cross in the colour proportions of the national flag. In top left canton of the flag the Coat of Arms is placed. The height of coat of arms is of the height of canton, sun of coat of arms is in centre of canton. The proportion between the width of the national colours and that of the Banner is 1:5. The proportion between the length and width of the Banner is 3:2.\n\nThe Standard of the Speaker of the Saeima is white with the symmetric cross in the colour proportions of the national flag. In top right canton of the flag the Coat of Arms is placed. The height of the coat of arms is of the height of the canton; the sun of coat of arms is in the centre of the canton. The proportion between the width of the national colours and that of the Banner is 1:5. The proportion between the length and width of the Banner is 3:2.\n\nThe Flag of the Minister of Defence of Latvia is white with the symmetric cross in the colour proportions of the national flag. In top left canton of the flag the soldier insignia is placed. The height of insignia is of the height of canton. The proportion between the width of the national colours and that of the Banner is 1:5. The proportion between the length and width of the Banner is 3:2.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30250827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30250827", "title": "Hephaestus in popular culture", "text": "Hephaestus in popular culture\n\nHephaestus makes many appearances in popular culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "8612424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8612424", "title": "Hipster (contemporary subculture)", "text": "Hipster (contemporary subculture)\n\nThe hipster subculture is stereotypically composed of young adults who reside primarily in gentrified neighborhoods. It is broadly associated with indie and alternative music and genres such as chill-out, folk, modern rock, pop rock, and post-Britpop. Hipsters also frequently flaunt a varied non-mainstream fashion sensibility, vintage and thrift store-bought clothing, generally pacifist, progressive and green political views, veganism, organic and artisanal foods, craft alcoholic beverages, and alternative lifestyles. The subculture typically consists of mostly white young adults living in urban areas. It has been described as a \"mutating, trans-Atlantic melting pot of styles, tastes and behavior\".\n\nThe term in its current usage first appeared in the 1990s and became particularly prominent in the late 2000s and early 2010s, being derived from the term used to describe earlier movements in the 1940s. Members of the subculture typically do not self-identify as hipsters, and the word \"hipster\" is often used as a pejorative to describe someone who is pretentious or overly trendy, or as a stereotypical term that has been reclaimed and redefined by some as a term of pride and group identity. Some scholars contend that the contemporary hipster is a \"marketplace myth\" that has a complex, two-way relationship with the worldview and value system of indie-oriented consumers.\n\nIn a 2009 article in \"PopMatters\" magazine, Rob Horning asserted that the hipster might be the \"embodiment of postmodernism as a spent force, revealing what happens when pastiche and irony exhaust themselves as aesthetics.\" \n\nThe term was coined during the Jazz Age, when \"hip\" emerged as an adjective to describe aficionados of the growing scene. Although the adjective's exact origins are disputed, some say it was a derivative of \"hop\", a slang term for opium, while others believe it comes from the West African word \"hipi\", meaning \"to open one's eyes\". Another argument suggests the term derives from the practice of lying on one's hip while smoking opium. The ultimate meaning of \"hip\", attested as early as 1902, is \"aware\" or \"in the know\". Conversely, the antonym \"unhip\" connotes those who are unaware of their surroundings, also including those who are opposed to hipness.\n\nNevertheless, \"hip\" eventually acquired the common English suffix \"-ster\" (as in \"spinster\" and \"gangster\"), and \"hipster\" entered the language. The first dictionary to list the word is the short glossary \"For Characters Who Don't Dig Jive Talk\", which was included with Harry Gibson's 1944 album, \"Boogie Woogie In Blue\". The entry for \"hipsters\" defined them as \"characters who like hot jazz\". It was not a complete glossary of jive, however, as it included only jive expressions that were found in the lyrics to his songs.\n\nThe same year, Cab Calloway published \"The New Cab Calloway's Hepster's Dictionary of Jive\", which had no listing for \"hipster\", and because there was also a 1939 edition of Calloway's Hepster's (an obvious play on \"Webster's\") Dictionary, it appears that \"hepster\" pre-dates \"hipster\". The term used in African-American culture was originally spelled \"hep,\" as in Cab Calloway's famous song \"(Hep Hep) The Jumpin' Jive\" recorded on July 17, 1939. 'Hep' is also used in \"Mezz Mezzrow\" essential account of underground jazz culture \"Really the Blues\" (published in 1946).\n\nInitially, hipsters were usually middle-class white youths seeking to emulate the lifestyle of the largely black jazz musicians they followed. In \"The Jazz Scene\" (1959), author Eric Hobsbawm (originally writing under the pen name Francis Newton) described hipster language—i.e., \"jive-talk or hipster-talk\"—as \"an argot or cant designed to set the group apart from outsiders\". This group crucially includes white jazz musicians such as Benny Goodman, Al Cohn, Gerry Mulligan, Stan Getz, Mezz Mezzrow, Barney Kessel, Doc Pomus, Bing Crosby, Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Jerry Lewis, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop, Chet Baker, and Gene Krupa who ought to be counted as some of the true original hipsters as they were instrumental in turning the white world onto jazz and its underground culture in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nThe subculture rapidly expanded, and after World War II, a burgeoning literary scene grew up around it. Jack Kerouac described 1940s hipsters as \"rising and roaming America, bumming and hitchhiking everywhere [as] characters of a special spirituality\". Toward the beginning of his poem \"Howl\", Allen Ginsberg mentioned \"angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection to the starry dynamo in the machinery of night\". In his essay \"The White Negro\", Norman Mailer characterized hipsters as American existentialists, living a life surrounded by death—annihilated by atomic war or strangled by social conformity—and electing instead to \"divorce [themselves] from society, to exist without roots, to set out on that uncharted journey into the rebellious imperatives of the self\".\n\nIn early 2000, both \"The New York Times\" and \"Time Out New York\" ran profiles of Williamsburg, Brooklyn without using the term \"hipster\". The \"Times\" referred to \"bohemians\" and \"TONY\" to \"arty East Village types\". By 2003, when \"The Hipster Handbook\" was published by Williamsburg resident Robert Lanham, the term had come into widespread use in relation to Williamsburg and similar neighborhoods. \"The Hipster Handbook\" described hipsters as young people with \"mop-top haircuts, swinging retro pocketbooks, talking on cell phones, smoking European cigarettes... strutting in platform shoes with a biography of Che Guevara sticking out of their bags\". Lanham further describes hipsters: \"You graduated from a liberal arts school whose football team hasn't won a game since the Reagan administration\" and \"you have one Republican friend who you always describe as being your 'one Republican friend. Mark Greif dates the initial phase of the revival of the term from 1999 to 2003.\n\nA similar phenomenon occurred in the United Kingdom, with young workers in the media and digital industries moving into traditional working class areas of London such as Hoxton, Spitalfields, and, particularly, Shoreditch. The subculture was parodied in the magazine \"Shoreditch Twat\" (1999) and the television sitcom \"Nathan Barley\" (2005). The series, about a self-described \"self-facilitating media node\", led to the term \"Nathan Barleys\" being used pejoratively to describe the culture it parodied.\n\nIn 2008, \"Utne Reader\" magazine writer Jake Mohan described \"hipster rap\" as \"consisting of the most recent crop of MCs and DJs who flout conventional hip-hop fashions, eschewing baggy clothes and gold chains for tight jeans, big sunglasses, the occasional keffiyeh, and other trappings of the hipster lifestyle\". He notes that the \"old-school hip-hop website Unkut, and Jersey City rapper Mazzi\" have criticized mainstream rappers whom they deem to be posers or \"fags for copping the metrosexual appearances of hipster fashion\". \"Prefix Mag\" writer Ethan Stanislawski argues that there are racial elements to the rise of hipster rap. He claims that there \"have been a slew of angry retorts to the rise of hipster rap\", which he says can be summed up as \"white kids want the funky otherness of hip-hop...without all the scary black people\".\n\nA 2009 \"Time\" magazine article described hipsters thus: \"take your grandmother's sweater and Bob Dylan's Wayfarers, add jean shorts, Converse All-Stars and a can of Pabst and bam—hipster.\"\n\n\"Slate\" writer Brandon Stosuy noted that \"Heavy metal has recently conquered a new frontier, making an unexpected crossover into the realm of hipsterdom\". He argues that the \"current revival seems to be a natural mutation from the hipster fascination with post-punk, noise, and no wave\", which allowed even the \"nerdiest indie kids to dip their toes into jagged, autistic sounds\". He argues that a \"byproduct\" of this development was an \"investigation of a musical culture that many had previously feared or fetishized from afar\".\nIn his 2011 book \"HipsterMattic\", author Matt Granfield described hipster culture:\n\nFixed gear bikes are associated with the hipster subculture. \"Slate\" calls the bikes an \"increasingly common hipster accessory\". An association of hipsters with an increasing popularity of full beards dates from before 2010. In 2016, historian Alun Withey remarked that \"The hipster beard, or lumberjack beard, is going to be the defining facial hair of this generation\". Other hipster trends in the 2010s have included knitting, veganism, urban beekeeping, specialty coffee, taxidermy, fedoras, and printing and bookbinding classes.\n\nIn 2017, British logistics and marketing firm, \"MoveHub\", published a \"Hipster Index\" for the United States, then followed up with a global index in 2018, listing the top 10 hipster-centric cities around the world as:\n\nAs hipsters—\"young creatives\" priced out of Bohemian urban neighborhoods in Brooklyn such as Williamsburg, Park Slope, and Greenpoint—moved into suburbs near New York City, \"The New York Times\" coined the neologism \"Hipsturbia\" to describe the hip lifestyle as lived in suburbia. Hastings-on-Hudson, Dobbs Ferry, Irvington, and Tarrytown, all in nearby Westchester County, were cited.\n\nA minor trend of cross acculturation of Chabad Hasidism and Hipster subculture appeared within the New York Jewish community, beginning in the late 2000s. A significant number of members of the Chabad Hasidic community, mostly residing Crown Heights, Brooklyn, appear to now have adopted various cultural affinities as the local hipster subculture. These cross-acculturated Hasidim have been dubbed \"Chabad hipsters\" or \"Hasidic hipsters\". The Soho Synagogue, established by Chabad emissaries in SoHo, Manhattan, have branded themselves as a \"hipster synagogue\". The trend of Chabad Hasidic hipsters stands in contrast to the tensions experienced between the Satmar Hasidic community in Williamsburg and local hipsters.\n\nThe 2014 song Brooklyn Baby by Lana Del Rey is notable for containing satirical elements targeting the New York hipster subculture: its chorus highlights \"a stable of cliches about hipsters, Brooklyn, millennials and other things Del Rey herself is known to idolize\". These elements include: having a boyfriend in a band, drug use (of amphetamines and hydroponic marijuana), obsession with Lou Reed and Beat Generation poetry, wearing feathers in hair, collecting jazz records, playing different musical instruments, and self-proclaiming coolness.\nThere has been a parallel movement within the American Muslim community with members termed 'mupsters'. \n\nThe Soviet equivalent of the hipster or beatnik, known as Stilyagi, first appeared during the mid 1950s and identified with the modern jazz scene. Their outfits were exaggerated caricatures of the costumes worn by western actors and musicians and typically incorporated bright colors, slim fit pants, thick soled shoes, vintage clothing from the 1920s and earlier, brightly colored socks, and plaid sportcoats. Following the release of a cult film in 2008, modern hipsters in Moscow and Saint Petersburg revived some aspects of this subculture.\n\nChristian Lorentzen of \"Time Out New York\" argues that \"hipsterism fetishizes the authentic\" elements of all of the \"fringe movements of the postwar era—Beat, hippie, punk, even grunge\", and draws on the \"cultural stores of every unmelted ethnicity\" and \"gay style,\" and then \"regurgitates it with a winking inauthenticity.\" He claims that this group of \"18-to-34-year-olds,\" who are mostly white, \"have defanged, skinned and consumed\" all of these influences. Lorentzen says hipsters, \"in their present undead incarnation,\" are \"essentially people who think of themselves as being cooler than America,\" also referring to them as \"the assassins of cool.\" He argues that metrosexuality is the hipster appropriation of gay culture, as a trait carried over from their \"Emo\" phase. He writes that \"these aesthetics are assimilated—cannibalized—into a repertoire of meaninglessness, from which the hipster can construct an identity in the manner of a collage, or a shuffled playlist on an iPod.\" He also criticizes how the subculture's original menace has long been abandoned and has been replaced with \"the form of not-quite-passive aggression called snark\".\n\nIn a \"Huffington Post\" article entitled \"Who's a Hipster?\", Julia Plevin argues that the \"definition of 'hipster' remains opaque to anyone outside this self-proclaiming, highly-selective circle\". She claims that the \"whole point of hipsters is that they avoid labels and being labeled. However, they all dress the same and act the same and conform in their non-conformity\" to an \"iconic carefully created sloppy vintage look\".\nRob Horning developed a critique of hipsterism in his April 2009 article \"The Death of the Hipster\" in \"PopMatters\", exploring several possible definitions for the hipster. He muses that the hipster might be the \"embodiment of postmodernism as a spent force, revealing what happens when pastiche and irony exhaust themselves as aesthetics\", or might be \"a kind of permanent cultural middleman in hypermediated late capitalism, selling out alternative sources of social power developed by outsider groups, just as the original 'white negros' evinced by Norman Mailer did to the original, pre-pejorative 'hipsters'—blacks\". Horning also proposed that the role of hipsters may be to \"appropriat[e] the new cultural capital forms, delivering them to mainstream media in a commercial form and stripping their inventors ... of the power and the glory\". Horning argues that the \"problem with hipsters\" is the \"way in which they reduce the particularity of anything you might be curious about or invested in into the same dreary common denominator of how 'cool' it is perceived to be\", as \"just another signifier of personal identity\". Furthermore, he argues that the \"hipster is defined by a lack of authenticity, by a sense of lateness to the scene\" or the way that they transform the situation into a \"self-conscious scene, something others can scrutinize and exploit\".\nDan Fletcher in \"Time\" seems to support this theory, positing that stores like Urban Outfitters have mass-produced hipster chic, merging hipsterdom with parts of mainstream culture, thus overshadowing its originators' still-strong alternative art and music scene. According to Fletcher, \"Hipsters manage to attract a loathing unique in its intensity. Critics have described the loosely defined group as smug, full of contradictions and, ultimately, the dead end of Western civilization.\"\n\nElise Thompson, an editor for the LA blog \"LAist\" argues that \"people who came of age in the 70s and 80s punk rock movement seem to universally hate 'hipsters'\", which she defines as people wearing \"expensive 'alternative' fashion[s]\", going to the \"latest, coolest, hippest bar...[and] listen[ing] to the latest, coolest, hippest band\". Thompson argues that hipsters \"don't seem to subscribe to any particular philosophy ... [or] ... particular genre of music\". Instead, she argues that they are \"soldiers of fortune of style\" who take up whatever is popular and in style, \"appropriat[ing] the style[s]\" of past countercultural movements such as punk, while \"discard[ing] everything that the style stood for\".\n\nDrawing from Pierre Bourdieu's work and Thomas Frank's theories of co-optation, Zeynep Arsel and Craig Thompson argue that in order to segment and co-opt the indie marketplace, mass media and marketers have engaged in commercial \"mythmaking\" and contributed to the formation of the contemporary discourse about hipsters. They substantiate this argument using a historical discourse analysis of the term and its use in the popular culture, based on Arsel's dissertation that was published in 2007. Their claim is that the contemporary depiction of hipster is generated through mass media narratives with different commercial and ideological interests. In other words, hipster is less of an objective category, and more of a culturally- and ideologically-shaped and mass-mediated modern mythology that appropriates the indie consumption field and eventually turns into a form of stigma. Arsel and Thompson also interview participants of the indie culture (DJs, designers, writers) to better understand how they feel about being labeled as one. Their findings demonstrate three strategies for dissociation from the hipster stereotype: aesthetic discrimination, symbolic demarcation, and proclaiming sovereignty. These strategies, empowered by one's status in the indie field (or their cultural capital) enable these individuals to defend their field dependent cultural investments and tastes from devaluing hipster mythology.\nArsel and Thompson's work seeks to explain why people who are ostensibly fitting the hipster stereotype profusely deny being one: they argue that hipster mythology devalues their tastes and interests and thus they have to socially distinguish themselves from this cultural category and defend their tastes from devaluation. To succeed in denying being a hipster, while looking, acting, and consuming like one, Arsel and Thompson suggest that these individuals demythologize their existing consumption practices by engaging in rhetorics and practices that symbolically differentiate their actions from the hipster stigma.\n\nMark Greif, a founder of \"n+1\" and an Assistant Professor at The New School, in a \"New York Times\" editorial, states that \"hipster\" is often used by youth from disparate economic backgrounds to jockey for social position. He questions the contradictory nature of the label, and the way that no one thinks of themselves as a hipster: \"Paradoxically, those who used the insult were themselves often said to resemble hipsters—they wore the skinny jeans and big eyeglasses, gathered in tiny enclaves in big cities, and looked down on mainstream fashions and 'tourists'.\" He believes the much-cited difficulty in analyzing the term stems from the fact that any attempt to do so provokes universal anxiety, since it \"calls everyone's bluff\". Like Arsel and Thompson, he draws from \"La Distinction\" by Pierre Bourdieu to conclude:\n\nGreif's efforts puts the term \"hipster\" into a socioeconomic framework rooted in the petite bourgeois tendencies of a youth generation unsure of their future social status. The cultural trend is indicative of a social structure with heightened economic anxiety and lessened class mobility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19266144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19266144", "title": "Improbable (The X-Files)", "text": "Improbable (The X-Files)\n\n\"Improbable\" is the thirteenth episode of the ninth season and the 195th episode overall of the science fiction television series \"The X-Files\". The episode first aired in the United States and Canada on April 7, 2002 on Fox, and subsequently aired in the United Kingdom. It was written and directed by series creator and executive producer Chris Carter. The episode is a \"monster-of-the-week\" episode, a stand-alone plot which is unconnected to the mythology, or overarching fictional history, of \"The X-Files\". The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 5.1 and was viewed by 9.1 million viewers. The episode received mostly positive reviews from critics.\n\nThe show centers on FBI special agents who work on cases linked to the paranormal, called X-Files; this season focuses on the investigations of John Doggett (Robert Patrick), Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish), and Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson). In this episode, Reyes and her fellow agents investigate a serial killer who uses numerology to choose his victims. Soon, Reyes and Scully meet an unusual man who may prove more of a hindrance than a help.\n\n\"Improbable\" features Burt Reynolds playing God. Reynolds was chosen after he expressed his desire to appear in an episode of \"The X-Files\" to Robert Patrick. Carter approved the idea, and Patrick later said that Reynolds enjoyed filming the episode. \"Improbable\" contains several elaborate effects, such as a cityscape rendered to look like Reynolds' head. Furthermore, the episode contains themes pertaining to fate, free will, and numerology. The tagline for this episode is \"Dio Ti Ama\", meaning \"God loves you\" in Italian, replacing the usual phrase \"The Truth is Out There.\"\n\nAt a casino bar, an unpleasant man known as \"Wayno\" (Ray McKinnon) meets a mysterious, mustachioed man (Burt Reynolds) who seems to know a lot about him. The mysterious man speaks in an enigmatic way, but his words do not seem to make any difference to Wayno, who murders a woman in a casino restroom shortly after the mysterious man tells him to \"surprise him\" by leaving the casino rather than following the woman into the restroom.\n\nAgent Monica Reyes (Annabeth Gish) is investigating the woman's murder as the latest in a series of cases that she believes are linked by numerology. She realizes that when she adds the numbers of letters in the victims' names with the numbers in their birthdates, a pattern arises. While explaining the case to Dana Scully (Gillian Anderson), who rejects the idea that numerology is relevant or that the world can be broken down into one simple equation, Scully discovers another possible clue—marks on each of the victim's cheeks that looks like three small circles, likely imprinted by the killer's ring while he beat the victims. On consulting a numerologist, who happens to have an office in the same building as the killer's apartment, Reyes ties the murders together. However, the killer also finds the numerologist, murdering her as she is on the phone with Reyes.\n\nReyes' numerology theories do not go down well at the FBI, but the pattern of the killings, when viewed on a map, seem to line up as the number six (6). After looking at the pictures of the victims, Scully realizes that the pattern on the victims was not three circles, but instead, three sixes, the mark of the devil. Meanwhile, Wayno has several additional run-ins with the mysterious man, who continues to give cryptic advice.\n\nScully and Reyes revisit the murdered numerologist's office and meet the killer in the elevator. Scully recognizes the ring on the killer's hand as the agents exit the elevator, and draws her gun on him. The killer slips back into the elevator and gets to the parking lot first. Reyes and Scully arrive only to see a car fleeing the garage and the gate closing behind it. Scully and Reyes are locked in the garage without a way out and their phones are without service.\n\nThey see another person hiding in a car and demand that he come out. It is the strange man. He says he is meeting a friend to play checkers, but does not know when his friend is coming. He does not have any identification and does not have a phone. The pair demand that he open his trunk. Inside are many CDs—the man proclaims his love of music—and a checker board. To pass the time, the mysterious man engages Reyes and Scully in a game of checkers. They play several rounds. Reyes eventually realizes that the checkers' colors (red & black) are surrogates for Scully (a redhead) and herself (a brunette); The pair realize that the last victim, the numerologist (victim number 7) was a blonde, and that the murderer has been following a pattern of killing a blonde, then a redhead, then a brunette. Thus, a redhead and a brunette are the anticipated hair-colors of the next two victims. Scully and Reyes also realize that, although they assumed that the car that exited the garage was the killer, it was possible that the killer might still be inside the garage with them. Scully and Reyes begin searching, but are surprised by the killer, who shuts off the lights, grabs Reyes and eventually gets hold of her gun. However, John Doggett (Robert Patrick), also realizing that the number \"6\" pattern is actually a \"9\" and that the killer must intend to have two more victims, arrives in the nick of time to shoot him. Reyes attempts to ask the killer why he did what he did. The killer begins to mouth a word, but dies before being able to speak to Reyes. Scully and Reyes then realize that the mysterious man is no longer in the garage.\n\nAt the end of the episode, Scully and Reyes are getting ready for bed. Scully suddenly calls Reyes and asks her what her assigned numerology \"number\" is. Reyes informs Scully she is a \"9\" which means she has risen above the other numbers and understands that there is more to life than this world. The clock shows us that it is 9:09 pm. In a nearby Italian neighborhood, an Italian festival is in progress. Two men sing a jovial song in Italian and lead a crowd through the streets. The camera zooms out to reveal that the entire neighborhood, when viewed from above, suggests the appearance of Burt's face, hinting at the fact that he might be God.\n\nCarter later explained that humorous episodes were important to the show, especially during the \"pitch-black\" ninth season. He reasoned \"there are the downbeats, and then you need the relief in the tension.\" The use of numbers in this episode helped emphasize the idea \"that numerology is an important part of our life and plays a part, but it really ... illustrate[s] the idea of patterns, patterns of behavior, of the ways in which numbers rule both the universe and our lives and our ability to solve things, [and] to solve our mysteries of life\". The tagline for this episode is \"Dio Ti Ama\", meaning \"God loves you\" in Italian, replacing the usual phrase \"The Truth is Out There.\" The normal line \"Executive Producer: Chris Carter\" is also rendered in Italian, reading, \"Produttore Esecutivo: Chris Carter\".\n\nThe name Vicki Burdick came from a high school student Chris Carter knew. Carter felt that he needed to kill the character \"all out of fondness.\" Before casting Ellen Greene, Carter had first spotted her in the musical, \"Little Shop of Horrors\" both in \"New York and Los Angeles.\" The first scene shot for Greene's character took a \"long day\". Carter called her a \"trouper\" and said she was open to the direction he gave her. The set for that scene was created by Tim Stepeck, the show's set decorator during its ninth season. Annabeth Gish later revealed that her lines were difficult to remember. She explained, \"I remember learning my lines and thinking, 'Oh my God. I've got to memorize this. It's scary. Like physics united theory, all of that.\"\n\nBurt Reynolds was chosen for \"Improbable\" after he expressed his desire to appear in an episode of \"The X-Files\" to Robert Patrick. Carter approved the idea and told Patrick that he would \"write something good\". He later noted that \"as a young man, [Reynolds] meant something to me\" and that the chance to act alongside him him was \"surreal\". After Carter had written the script, he presented it to Reynolds for his approval; Reynolds approved of the script and agreed to be in the episode. Robert Patrick later noted that Reynolds \"had a great time, and he loved working with everybody.\"\n\nThe final scene, featuring Burt's face superimposed onto the cityscape, was created by special effects supervisor Mat Beck. The only actual footage in the scene is a pull-back shot of the carnival that was filmed with the use of a crane. A CGI cityscape was then created that resembled Burt Reynolds' head. The two shots were composited together, and a blur effect was added to \"[make] it sell\". An alternate version of the scene was created that featured Chris Carter's head instead of Reynolds'. This version was included as a bonus feature on the season nine DVD set. The score for the episode, like the rest of the series, was composed by Mark Snow. Snow based much of the music in the episode on records made by Karl Zéro, on the request of Carter. Carter later noted that \"I had heard his music and it was so far out and it fit with exactly what I wanted to do because I wanted to recreate [the yearly celebration in] Little Italy. [...] I wanted to create that festival.\"\n\nAccording to Chris Carter, the whole idea behind the episode was about numbers and that the \"significance of numbers in our lives starts here on the card table where the players are being dealt a hand each.\" He continued with \"the idea is that we're all dealt hands, genetic hands, and maybe even numerological hands that give us basically the tools with which we deal and/or use for our lives.\" He further stated that the idea was that it was \"free will\" and \"fate\", continued with that fate was determined by our own genetics.\n\nThe villain in the story, Mad Wayne, had been dealt a bad hand in life. Because of his situation, he \"acts on his bad impulses\"; Carter elaborated, \"Is it fate that Wayne is about, the character, this is what I was interested in exploring here. As we'll see with the introduction in a moment of a character who throws all of this into question – God – we're going to see what his place is in all of this, or at least explore what Burt Reynolds, playing God here, has to do with the character Wayne.\" The main idea behind the episode, was that \"God knows all the numbers [because] they'e his numbers\" and he is laying them down and is in \"charge of the big game\". God in this episode is thus \"trying to show [the characters] the game\" of life that is to be \"won or lost\". By making the wrong decisions, Wayne, by the end of the episode, has lost this game.\n\n\"Improbable\" first aired in the United States on April 7, 2002. The episode earned a Nielsen household rating of 5.1, meaning that it was seen by an estimated 5.1% of the nation's households. The episode was viewed by 5.38 million households and 9.1 million viewers \"Improbable\" was the 57th most watched episode of television that aired during the week ending April 14.\n\n\"Improbable\" received mostly positive reviews from critics. Jessica Morgan of Television Without Pity awarded the episode a \"B+\". Robert Shearman and Lars Pearson, in their book \"Wanting to Believe: A Critical Guide to The X-Files, Millennium & The Lone Gunmen\", rated the episode four stars out of five, and called the script \"very witty\". The two wrote that \"the brilliance of Chris Carter's direction\" allowed the viewer of the episode to see it \"from God's point of view\". Shearman and Pearson concluded that the episode \"is not as smart as it thinks it is. But it's still pretty smart.\" M.A. Crang, in his book \"Denying the Truth: Revisiting The X-Files after 9/11\", called the episode \"bizarre yet amusing\" and said that the central numerology story \"doesn't feel like it's enough to sustain an entire episode\".\n\n\"The Guardian\" listed \"Improbable\" as one of the \"13 best X-Files episodes ever\". UGO named God/Mr. Burt as one of the \"Top 11 X-Files Monsters\", noting that \"as [series creator Chris Carter] imagines him, [God] is a benevolent deity, constantly prodding his creatures to look at the patterns before them, to see the overall plan that he's laid out. He's doomed to failure, and he knows it, though it doesn't stop him from trying\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31596081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31596081", "title": "Jihadi tourism", "text": "Jihadi tourism\n\nJihadi tourism, also referred to as jihad tourism or jihadist tourism, is a term sometimes used to describe travel to foreign destinations with the object of scouting for terrorist training. US diplomatic cables made public by WikiLeaks in 2010 have raised concerns about this form of travel. Within intelligence circles, the term is also sometimes applied dismissively to travellers who are assumed to be seeking contact with extremist groups mainly out of curiosity.\n\nIn previous times, several people from Britain and France along with Middle East travelled to join Soviet–Afghan War.\n\nBritish police characterized a visit to Pakistan by homegrown terrorists, Mohammad Sidique Khan and Shehzad Tanweer, as jihadi tourism, and doubted that they were actual terrorists. Sidique Khan and Tanweer were reported to have met Abd al-Hadi al-Iraqi, one of al-Qaeda’s most experienced commanders, in November 2004, when he tasked them to plan an attack in England. Khan and Tanweer were later two of the four suicide bombers in the 7 July 2005 London bombings.\n\nNeoconservative author Laurent Murawiec has alleged that wealthy young men from Saudi Arabia have travelled to Afghanistan and Pakistan for jihadi tourism.\n\nThe Al-Quds Mosque in Hamburg, where Mohamed Atta often prayed, became a hub for jihadi tourism prior to its closure, as Islamic militants gathered to meet those with connections to terrorist organizations in Afghanistan. It was discovered by German authorities that 10 of the mosque's members had travelled to the border region of Pakistan and Afghanistan. In 2010, the mosque was closed by German security officials following suspicions that the mosque was again being used as a meeting place for Islamic extremists.\n\nUS diplomatic cables made public by WikiLeaks have alleged that British and American citizens are travelling to Somalia to undergo training for terrorist attacks in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "40451129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40451129", "title": "List of Occult symbols", "text": "List of Occult symbols\n\nThe following is a list of symbols associated with the occult. This list shares a number of entries with the list of alchemical symbols.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17681776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17681776", "title": "List of festivals and events in Kamakura", "text": "List of festivals and events in Kamakura\n\nThe city of Kamakura in Kanagawa Prefecture has many festivals () and other events in all of the seasons, usually based on its rich historical heritage. They are often sponsored by private businesses and, unlike those in Kyoto, they are relatively small-scale events attended mostly by locals and a few tourists. January in particular has many because it's the first month of the year, so authorities, fishermen, businesses and artisans organize events to pray for their own health and safety, and for a good and prosperous working year. Kamakura's numerous temples and shrines, first among them city symbols Tsurugaoka Hachiman-gū and Kenchō-ji, organize many events too, bringing the total to over a hundred.\n\n1, 2 and 3 - at Hongaku-ji: Celebration of Ebisu, god of commerce. Young women dressed in traditional costumes (Fuku Musume) sell lucky charms made of bamboo and sake. Minamoto no Yoritomo made Ebisu the shogunate's tutelary god, but now people flock to the temple to wish for a good new year. There's a similar event on the tenth too, called , and this time the girls distribute Fukumochi (rice cakes). \n\n2nd - at Sakanoshita: This event marks the beginning of the working year for local fishermen, who pray for big catches and the safety of their boats. Tangerines are thrown into the sea, boats carrying flags gather along the coast and the captain offers sake to , the boat's guardian \"kami\".\n\n4th - at Koshigoe: See \"Funaoroshi\" above.\n\n4th - at Tsurugaoka Hachiman: This event marks the beginning of the working year for local construction workers who, for the ceremony, use traditional working tools. The festival also commemorates Minamoto no Yoritomo, who ordered the reconstruction of the main building of the shrine after it was destroyed by fire in 1191. The ceremony takes place at 1:00 PM at Tsurugaoka Hachiman. \n\n5th - at Tsurugaoka Hachiman: Festival to keep evil spirits away. Archers shoot at a target on which is painted the word \"devil\".\n\n15th- at Tsurugaoka Hachiman: The paper decorations used during the New Year festivities are publicly burned.\n\nDay before the first day of spring (usually Feb. 3) - at Tsurugaoka Hachiman, Kenchō-ji, Hase-dera, Kamakura-gū, etc. : Celebration of the end of winter. Beans are scattered in the air to ensure good luck. \n\n11th: at Chōshō-ji temple: Ceremony during which Buddhist monks douse themselves with cold water to pray for the country's safety.\n\nLast day of equinoctial week (end of the month): at Kōsoku-ji. The temple performs funerary rites in memory of defunct pets (dogs, cats, canaries).\n\n2nd to 3rd Sunday of April: \"Kamakura Matsuri\" at Tsurugaoka Hachiman and other locations: A whole week of events that celebrate the city and its history.\n\n5th - at the Kamakura-gū: Archers in samurai gear shoot arrows at a straw deer while reciting old poems.\n\n2nd Sunday - at Goshō Jinja: The faithful carry a portable shrine ( a \"mikoshi\") on Zaimokuza's streets. At about 3:00 PM the \"mikoshi\" is carried into the sea at Zaimokuza Beach.\n\nFrom the first to the second Sunday of the Month - at Koyurugi Jinja: Processions from Koshigoe's five neighborhoods play music and welcome the coming of the gods. Warrior dolls are displayed along the streets and, on the last day of the festival, Yasaka Jinja's mikoshi is carried from Enoshima to Koshigoe.\n\n15th - at Kenchō-ji: Funeral rites take place first early in the morning under the Sanmon gate. They are later repeated expressly for the soul of Kajiwara Kagetoki.\n\nFrom the first day of fall (usually the 8th) to the 9th - at Tsurugaoka Hachiman-gū: hand-drawn \"bonbori\" paper lanterns are submitted and exhibited on the shrine's grounds Photos of the lanterns.\n\n10th (or following Monday if it falls on a Saturday): A full hour of fireworks on the beach in Yuigahama.\n\n\"14th, 15th and 16th\" - : Famous festival with many attractions, the most famous of which is the , or Japanese horseback archery, which takes place on the 16th.\n\nOctober 8 and 9 - at Kamakura Shrine: Noh plays are held at the shrine by the Kamakura Tourist Association. Tickets must be reserved in advance (phone number: 0467-23-3050).\n\nEarly November- : Treasure display at Kenchō-ji and Engaku-ji. Objects normally not visible by the public are on display for three days.\n\n16th- at Tsurugaoka Hachiman-gū: Celebration of the founding of the shrine. After dark, bonfires are lighted and four maidens perform a ritual dance.\n\n"}
{"id": "10348141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10348141", "title": "List of museums with major collections of European prints and drawings", "text": "List of museums with major collections of European prints and drawings\n\nThis is a list of museums or print rooms with major collections of European old master prints and drawings. This list is incomplete, and should not be regarded as a correct ranking of the major collections.\n"}
{"id": "5388318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5388318", "title": "List of nicknames of United States Army divisions", "text": "List of nicknames of United States Army divisions\n\nMany Army divisions have over the years earned nicknames; some laudatory, some derogatory, but mostly colorful. Sometimes, the nicknames themselves have overshadowed the actual name of the division, e.g. the \"Screaming Eagles\" for the 101st Airborne Division.\n\nAn official special designation is a \"nickname granted to a military organization\" which has been authorized by the Center of Military History and recognized through a certificate signed by the Secretary of the Army.\n\nA division's nickname may derive from numerous sources:\n\n\nActive divisions are listed in boldface; no distinction has been made between regular Army divisions and those of the Army Reserve or National Guard. The origin of the nickname is noted where possible. In some cases, the nickname was officially adopted by the division in question; this is indicated along with date of adoption (where known). Official status might also be inferred by the presence of the nickname on official distinctive unit insignia or in official military source materials.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "517983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=517983", "title": "List of religious converts", "text": "List of religious converts\n\nBelow are lists of religious converts. The term proselyte is often used as a synonym for religious converts, although historically it first referred solely to converts to Judaism.\n"}
{"id": "496472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=496472", "title": "Llanero", "text": "Llanero\n\nA llanero (, \"plainsman\") is a South American herder. The name is taken from the Llanos grasslands occupying western-central Venezuela and eastern Colombia. The Llanero were originally part Spanish and Indian and have a strong culture including a distinctive form of music.\n\nDuring the Latin American wars of independence, Llaneros served in both armies and provided the bulk of the cavalry during the war. In 1819, an army of Llaneros, led by Simón Bolívar and José Antonio Páez, defeated the Spanish with a surprise attack when they crossed over the Orinoco plains and the Andes mountains.\n\nPrior to Spanish settlement in 1548, the Llanos were occupied by indigenous groups. Andalusian monks established settlements close to Native American villages and accomplished conversion through a mixture of persuasion and force.\n\nThe Spaniards started to graze cattle on the grasslands of the llanos and the Llanero were originally a mixture of Spaniards and Indians. Indeed, Llaneros still use many terms dating from the 16th and 17th centuries. From 1640 to 1790, outlaw slaves lived in \"cumbes\", or outlaw slave communities, and intermarried with the Llanero.\n\nBy the end of the 18th century, the region exported 30,000 mules a year to the Antilles and salted meat for the 1.5 million slaves there and in Cuba. There were 1.2 million cattle in the area by 1815.\n\nWhen the Wars of Liberation started, the Spanish enlisted the Llaneros, playing on their dislike of the \"criollos\" of the independence movement. Bolívar realized that the plains were critical to success in the wars of liberation – they offered freedom of movement, as well as the capacity to feed his army.\n\nHe therefore sought to enlist the Llaneros to his cause and gradually succeeded by enduring the same hardships as they did – the Llaneros called him \"culo de hierro\" – or \"iron buttocks\" – for his endurance on horseback.\n\nThe Llaneros led by Páez proved crucial in Bolivar's campaign. After leading his forces including the Llanero troops over the eastern Andes, Bolívar won a critical victory at the Battle of Boyacá on August 7, 1819. Three days later, he captured Bogotá in what was the turning point of wars of liberation.\n\nThe Llaneros would also prove to be vital in future battles in the campaign. Páez's \"Bravos de Apure\" or lancers were again critical in the Battle of Carabobo on June 24, 1821, and allowed Bolivar to capture Caracas. Páez would become the first President of Venezuela.\n\nDuring the 1850s, a hide boom stimulated the local economy. A boom in great egret feathers in the early 1930s in Europe led to them being called \"white gold\" until the trade was banned.\n\nCattle form an important part of Llanero culture. There are 12 million cattle on the llano. During the year, the Llaneros have to drive cattle great distances. During the winter wet season, the Llaneros have to drive the cattle to higher ground as the poor drainage of the plains means that the annual floods are extensive. Conversely, they have to drive the cattle towards wet areas during the dry summer.\n\nThe Llaneros show their skills in coleo competitions, similar to rodeos, where they compete to drag cattle to the ground.\n\nLlanero music is distinctive for its use of the harp, the maracas and a small guitar called a cuatro. The joropo, a Llanero dance, has become the national dance of Venezuela, and of the Llanos of Colombia. While Llanero music is relatively unknown outside of Venezuela and Colombia, the musical groups Los Llaneros and Cimarron have toured throughout the world.\n\nLlanero cuisine is based on meat, fish, chicken, \"chiguire\" meat (also known as capybara), rice, arepas, and other starches, although wheat is not used. Llanero Ken, a doll dressed in the distinctive Llanero costume Liqui liqui, including a customary starched hat, has become a popular doll in Venezuela.\n\nThe Spanish also used the term to describe the nomadic tribes of the Llano Estacado of Texas and New Mexico and was applied to the Apache in particular.\n\nIn Spanish, The Lone Ranger is known as El Llanero Solitario.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30347791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30347791", "title": "Mormon Expression", "text": "Mormon Expression\n\nMormon Expression is a periodic podcast created by John Larsen dealing with issues of Mormon faith, culture, doctrine and history. The podcast includes a mixed format of interviews and panel discussions. The overall tone of the podcast is somewhat critical of the mainline LDS Church, but also includes faithful perspectives from believing Mormons.\n\nAccording to the Mormon Expression website, the podcast is a \"weekly discussion of topics dealing with Mormon faith, culture, doctrine and history.\" It adds, \"We try to straddle the position between defense and criticism of the faith, and look at it from all points of view. We believe that Mormonism is interesting by itself, and we are going to talk about it!\" The podcast has had several guests who are faithful Mormons, but skews towards those who are not in the mainstream or those who have abandoned the faith.\n\nJohn Larsen, founder of Mormon Expression, explains that the target audience for the website is “anyone interested in Mormonism as a legitimate topic of inquiry. So much of what is out there dealing with Mormonism is either apologetic, propaganda, or vitriolic attack. We want to get to the heart of what Mormonism is, not what people would have it be – for good or for bad.\"\n\nThe podcast was the brainchild of John Larsen who was its host and director until he retired on December 23, 2014. John had been active in the ex-Mormon community for several years before beginning the show. The podcast began publishing episodes on June 23, 2009 and released its 100th episode on January 4, 2011. The podcast has included an active number of regular panelists. The initial panelists including Tom Perry, James Hill, \"George\" Thatcher, \"Nyal Davidsson\" (alias) and Zilpha Larsen who is John's ex-wife. Later additions include Mike Tannehill, Glenn Ostlund and Bridget Jack Jeffries.\n\nOn February 23, 2010, the podcast won the 2009 Brodie Award (an award for Mormon-themed blogs and websites) for best podcast. As of December 30, 2010, the podcast was downloaded an average of 15,000 times per week.\n\nThe podcast ended on September 27, 2015, with the release of final episode #317. In the same episode, Larsen announced his intent to re-release 20 episodes of his choosing with added commentary, after which time the episode archive would require a fee to access.\n\nSeveral notable individuals with ties to the Mormon Community have appeared on the podcast including Ed Decker, Will Bagley, Brian Keith \"Mr. Deity\" Dalton, Richie T. the producer of the Radio From Hell radio show, and Elna Baker, author of \"The New York Regional Mormon Singles Halloween Dance\" and contributor to This American Life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48427665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48427665", "title": "Nadaism", "text": "Nadaism\n\nNadaism (, meaning \"Nothing-ism\" in English) was an artistic and philosophical counterculture movement in Colombia prevalent from 1958 to 1964. The movement was founded by writer Gonzalo Arango and was influenced by nihilism, existentialism, and the works of Colombian writer and philosopher Fernando González Ochoa. Nadaism was largely a movement in reaction to \"La Violencia\" and was the Colombian expression of numerous avant-garde-like movements in the poetry of the Americas during the 1950s and 60s, such as the Beat Generation in the United States and the \"Tzanticos\" in Ecuador. The movement was largely anti-establishment. It resulted in several works of literature, music, and movies expressing nadaist themes.\n\nThe term \"nadaísmo\" was a play on the words \"nada\", meaning nothing, and \"Dadaism\" (). Nadaísmo has sometimes been called \"Colombian dadaism\", a \"Colombian Beat Generation\", or \"Colombian Futurism\".\n\nThe violent events in Colombia during the 1940s and 1950s permeate the works of Nadaist writers. Events such as La Violencia and the military government of Gustavo Rojas Pinilla, as well as a considerable urban expansion, greatly influenced the formation of the \"Nadaísta\" (Nothing-ist) movement. Arango had originally supported Pinilla when he came to power in Colombia, joining the \"Movimiento Amplio Nacional\" (Broad National Movement) composed of artists and young intellectuals that supported the dictator. In this period, Arango devoted himself to journalism. Soon, however, the reaction of the leaders of conservatives and liberals against Rojas was manifested in an agreement that caused his fall on May 10, 1957. While the dictator was exiled in Spain, Gonzalo Arango eventually fled to Medellín, Colombia.\n\nArango began the Nadaist movement in 1958 when his 42-page \"Nadaism Manifesto\", signed as \"gonzaloarango\", was published in the magazine \"Amistad\" (meaning \"Friendship\") in Medellín. Arango and other writers would write about their disillusionment with the government they had supported.\n\nSome of the first people to join the new movement were Alberto Escobar and Amilkar Osorio. As an inauguration, in 1958 they burned Colombian literature in the Plazuela de San Ignacio in Medellín as a symbol against what was considered the traditional great works of Colombian literature. Works that they denounced included the earlier literary movements such as \"Los Nuevos\". One of the books they burned was Arango's first work, \"After the Man\".\n\nThe movement ended largely with the deaths of its founding members. Toward the end of his life, Arango distanced himself from the beliefs of the other members associated with the movement.\n\nAuthors who were part of this movement include:\nAdditionally, Los Speakers, The Young Beats, and Los Yetis were rock bands associated with this movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42209150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42209150", "title": "Naming of chemical elements", "text": "Naming of chemical elements\n\nChemical elements may be named from various sources: sometimes based on the person who discovered it, or the place it was discovered. Some have Latin or Greek roots deriving from something related to the element, for example some use to which it may have been put.\n\nAll 118 discovered elements are confirmed and have a formal name and symbol, as decided by IUPAC. The last four names and symbols were added on November 28, 2016. Incidentally, at this moment there are no unconfirmed discoveries and all seven periods (rows) of the periodic table are completed.\n\nElement names can refer to:\n\nChemical elements are sometimes named after people, especially the synthetic elements discovered (created) after ca. 1940. However, very few are named after their discoverers, and even fewer are named after living people. The element seaborgium is named after Glenn Seaborg, who was alive at the time; and oganesson is named after Yuri Oganessian (still living ).\n\nMany of the transuranic elements are named after recipients of the Nobel Prize, including:\n\nTransuranic elements named in honour of scientists who did not receive the prize include:\n\nThe transuranic element americium is indirectly named (via the continents The Americas) after Amerigo Vespucci\n\nThe non-transuranic element samarium is named after Vasili Samarsky-Bykhovets, and gadolinium is indirectly named (via the mineral gadolinite), after Johan Gadolin.\n\nLecoq de Boisbaudran, who named the element gallium after his native land of France (from Latin \"Gallia\" meaning Gaul) denied that the element's naming was for a pun on his own name (\"le coq\" means \"the rooster\" in French, as does \"gallus\" in Latin).\n\nSome chemical elements are named after places on the planet earth.\n\nFive are named after currently existing countries – polonium (named after Poland), francium and gallium (named after France), nihonium (named after Japan) and germanium (named after Germany). Only gallium and germanium are stable and occur in more than trace amounts on Earth. Americium is named after the Americas, in analogy with europium being named after Europe.\n\nOther elements are named after modern states or cities, including berkelium, californium and tennessine named respectively after the American city of Berkeley and the states of California and Tennessee where they were discovered; and dubnium and moscovium, similarly named after Russia's Dubna and Moscow.\n\nSeveral places in Scandinavia have elements named after them:\nA number of other elements are named after classical words for various places.\n\n\nThe naming of elements from astronomical objects stems from the ancient association of metals with the various planets and their gods, as follows: mercury with the fast-moving planet Mercury; copper with the brilliant, beautiful planet Venus; iron with Mars (named for the Roman god of war); tin with Jupiter (named for the Roman king of the gods); and lead with the slow-moving planet Saturn (named for the ancient, slow god who was the father of Jupiter). The Sun and the Moon were associated with gold and silver, respectively.\n\nA few other elements are directly named for astronomical bodies, including planets, dwarf planets, a few asteroids, our star, our planet, and our Moon. Uranium, neptunium, plutonium, cerium, and palladium were named after Uranus, Neptune, Pluto, Ceres, and Pallas respectively, which were at the time of their naming all considered to be planets. (Today, Pluto and Ceres are considered to be dwarf planets, and Pallas is considered to be an asteroid.)\n\nThe name of the element selenium came from the Greek word for the Moon (Σελήνη, \"Selene\"). The name helium comes from the Greek word for the Sun (Ἢλιος, \"Helios\"). This is because the first evidence for helium was in distinctive, heretofore unknown spectroscopic lines from the Sun; these could not be explained by any of the known elements in the 1870s.\n\nMany elements are named after the minerals in which they are found, e.g. calcium after Latin \"calx\" (lime), silicon is named after Latin \"silex\" (sand), sodium after soda and potassium after potash.\n\nIn 1979, IUPAC published recommendations for their systematic element names to be used for yet unnamed or undiscovered elements as a placeholder, until the discovery of the element is confirmed and a permanent name is decided on. The recommendations are mostly ignored among scientists, who simply call these elements by their atomic number, for example \"element 119\" (instead of \"ununennium\"), with the symbol of \"(119)\" or even simply \"119\".\n\nSince 2002, the IUPAC Inorganic Chemistry Division has been the official body responsible with assigning official names to new elements, with the IUPAC Council making the final decision.\n\nOnce an element has been named, a one-, or two-letter symbol must be ascribed to it so it can be easily referred to in such contexts as the periodic table. The first letter is always capitalised. While the symbol is often a contraction of the element's name, it may sometimes not match the element's name when the symbol is based on non-English words; examples include \"Pb\" for lead (from \"plumbum\" in Latin) or \"W\" for tungsten (from \"Wolfram\" in German). Elements which have only temporary systematic names are given temporary three-letter symbols (e.g. Uue for ununennium, the undiscovered element 119).\n\nThe naming of the synthetic elements dubnium and seaborgium generated a significant amount of controversy, referred to as the Transfermium Wars. The Americans wished to name element 105 hahnium, while the Russians preferred the name dubnium. The Americans also wished to name element 106 seaborgium. This naming dispute ran from the 1970s (when the elements were discovered) to the 1990s, when the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) created a tentative list of the element names for elements 104 to 109. The Americans, however, refused to agree with these names because seaborgium was not in the list. Thus, IUPAC reconsidered, and in 1996 named element 105 dubnium and element 106 seaborgium.\n\nWhen a pure element, comprising only one type of atom, nevertheless exists in multiple forms (allotropes) with different structure and properties, they are generally given different names; for example graphite and diamond are both forms of the element carbon. Even for elements such as nitrogen having only one stable allotrope, a name such as dinitrogen may be used to indicate its molecular structure N as well as its elemental composition. The naming of chemical compounds comprising more than one element is a complex subject, discussed at length in the article on chemical nomenclature.\n\n"}
{"id": "11176027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11176027", "title": "National Anthem of Zimbabwe", "text": "National Anthem of Zimbabwe\n\n\"Simudzai Mureza wedu WeZimbabwe\" (, ; ) is the national anthem of Zimbabwe.\n\nIt was introduced in March 1994 after a nationwide competition to replace the South African-derived \"Ishe Komborera Africa\" with a distinctly Zimbabwean song. The winning entry was a Shona song written by Professor Solomon Mutswairo and composed by Fred Changundega.\n\nIt has been translated into English and Ndebele, the two other main languages of Zimbabwe. \n\nThe Ndebele version is mainly sung in the Matebeleland regions of Zimbabwe, while the English version is not commonly sung. Some schools in Matabeleland South have introduced the Sotho/Tswana version. \n\n"}
{"id": "42371917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42371917", "title": "Nut art", "text": "Nut art\n\nNut art was an artistic consciousness movement centered in northern California that flourished primarily in the late 60s and early 70s.\n\nThe term \"Nut art\" was coined by artist Roy De Forest (in conversation with writer David Zack) to describe an approach to art making which embraced humor along with the phantasmagorical. According to De Forest, Nut artists sought to create fantasy worlds reflective of their own quirks and eccentricities. As such, Nut art placed a high degree of emphasis on evolving visions, of which specific artworks were produced as part of the ongoing process of self-definition, or in service to creating new personas and personal mythologies.(Among these personas was that of Ralph \"Doggy\" Dinsmore, which was used by De Forest.)\n\nAs with Conceptual art, the idea or underlying concept with Nut art was paramount. As a result, the creation of the Nut artist was not restricted by style or medium, allowing the movement to embrace emerging formats such as performance, text pieces, and appropriation, in addition to more traditional two and three dimensional mediums such as drawing, photography, and sculpture. Because of the emphasis on concept and satire, Nut art welcomed contributions from participants without formal artistic backgrounds as well as those with advanced technical skill and training. Nut art also reflected the importance of process over product, which had been a central tenet of the Action painters a generation previous.\n\nBesides De Forest, other key practitioners of Nut art included Robert Arneson, Clayton Bailey (as well as Bailey's alter-ego Dr. Gladstone), Victor Cicansky (alter-ego Victor Ceramski), Robert Cumming, Lowell Darling, Jack Ford, David Gilhooly, Jerry Gooch, Linda Renner, Peter Saul, Harold Schlotzhauer, Richard Shaw, Irv Tepper, Chris Unterseher, Peter VandenBerge, Franklin Williams, Maija Zack (alter-ego Maija Woof), and David Zack.\n\nDavid Zack, who was also a poet and art critic, reviewed many of the group's exhibitions. Zack also participated in the movement as an exhibiting artist.\n\nThe first major exhibition of Nut art took place in 1972 at the University Art Gallery of California State University, Hayward. The show was co-curated by Clayton Bailey (then art faculty) and Gallery Director Irene Keil. The show produced a catalog which included a preface written by De Forest.\n\n"}
{"id": "1375378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1375378", "title": "Obsolete Russian units of measurement", "text": "Obsolete Russian units of measurement\n\nA native system of weights and measures was used in Imperial Russia and after the Russian Revolution, but it was abandoned after July 21, 1925, when the Soviet Union adopted the metric system, per the order of the Council of People's Commissars.\n\nThe Tatar system is very similar to the Russian one, but some names are different.\n\nThe system existed since ancient Rus', but under Peter the Great, the Russian units were redefined relative to the English system. Until Peter the Great the system also used Cyrillic numerals, and only in the 18th century did Peter the Great replace it with the Hindu-Arabic numeral system.\n\nThe basic unit is the Russian cubit, called the \"arshin\", which has been in use since the 16th century. It was standardized by Peter the Great in the 18th century to measure exactly twenty-eight English inches (). Thus, 80 vershoks = 20 piads = 5 arshins = 140 English inches ().\n\nA \"piad\" (, “palm”, “five”) or \"chetvert\" (, “quarter”) is a hand span, the distance between ends of the spread thumb and index finger.\n\nAlternative units:\n\n\nAs in many ancient systems of measurement the Russian distinguishes between dry and liquid measurements of capacity. Note that the chetvert appears in both lists with vastly differing values.\n\nTwo systems of weight were in use, an ordinary one in common use, and an apothecaries' system.\n\nThe pood was first mentioned in a number of documents of the twelfth century. It may still be encountered in documents dealing with agricultural production (especially with reference to cereals), and has been revived in determining weights when casting bells in belfries following the rebirth of the Orthodox Churches in the former Soviet lands. It is also popular in the modern fitness industry of the 21st century, as the pood is used when referencing the weight of a kettlebell, a Russian invention, especially in CrossFit. \n\nThe Imperial Russian apothecaries' weight was defined by setting the grain () to be exactly seven-fifths of a \"dolia\". The only unit name shared between the two was the \"funt\" (pound), but the one in the apothecaries' system is exactly seven-eighths of the ordinary \"funt\".\n\nThe obsolete units of measurement survived in Russian culture in a number of idiomatic expressions and proverbs, for example:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56235006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56235006", "title": "Old Cotabato City Hall Museum", "text": "Old Cotabato City Hall Museum\n\nOld Cotabato City Hall Museum is a city museum fronting Rizal Park Plaza in Cotabato City, Philippines. The structure was built in 1940s as the Municipal Hall of former Municipality of Cotabato also served as the visitors information center.\n\nBuilt in 1940s under the leadership of the former Cotabato Mayor Jose Lim, later dubbed as Cotabato City Hall in 1960s when the Municipality of Cotabato is recognized as a City. \n\nDesigned by the Filipino architect Juan Arellano before the war, this building is a legacy of neo vernacular architecture.\n\nThe museum houses the city’s historical artifacts, pioneer families heirlooms, and other noteworthy pieces of history such as vintage photos and books.\n"}
{"id": "22255103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22255103", "title": "Pittcon Editors' Awards", "text": "Pittcon Editors' Awards\n\nPittcon Editors’ Awards honoured the best new products on show at the Pittsburgh Conference on Analytical Chemistry and Applied Spectroscopy, or Pittcon, for 20 years from 1996 having been established by Dr Gordon Wilkinson, managing editor of \"Analytical Instrument Industry Report\" (later \"Instrumenta\"). On 8 March 2015, the event returned to the Morial Convention Center in New Orleans and this was the last occasion when the awards were presented.\n\nThe independent awards, which represented the results of an informal poll of leading editors, had become an important feature of the world’s largest trade show for the laboratory equipment industry. Pittcon organisers and media center supported the scheme and provided details and photographs on the exhibition's Press and Media Information page. In 2016 the group of editors and journalists that formed the core of the judging panel reluctantly decided to discontinue the awards program citing gradually dwindling support from ever-busier media representatives.\n\nThe awards were started because of the challenge that editors faced of effectively covering the trade show, which in 2015 hosted 925 exhibitors. New exhibitors at the Morial Convention Center totalled 130 companies. Walking past every booth at an event such as this represents a trek of over .\n\nAccredited media representatives, of whom there were more than 150 per year, were invited to list up to three new products on a nomination form provided on registration at the Media Center. Editors were invited to attend a judging session towards the end of the trade show. They reviewed entries and voted on the nominated products. The only criterion was that products must have appeared at the exhibition for the first time, but winning products usually featured innovations in technology or industrial design, or enabled new analytical applications.\n\nGold, Silver and Bronze winners were determined and plaques were awarded to the booth personnel of the winning companies on the final morning of the four-day exposition. Other nominated products received an Honourable Mention.\n\nWinners for the period 1996 to 2015, together with the names of their products, are listed below. Of the award winners, the majority were the largest instrument makers in the industry, but over 30 small companies or start-ups went home with awards, illustrating that editors were able to use their technical expertise to spot innovations irrespective of the marketing budgets of exhibitors.\n\nCompany names are listed in the format used at the date of the award, although may have now changed as a result of change of ownership. Trademarks are acknowledged, but not indicated; readers should check corporate literature or websites for current intellectual property rights. Web links are only provided for award-winning products up to five years old. Products introduced earlier have usually been updated with more recent models.\n\n2015:\n\n2014:\n\n2013:\n\n2012:\n\n2011:\n\n2010:\n\n2009:\n\n2008: \n\n2007: \n\n2006: \n\n2005: \n\n2004: \n\n2003: \n\n2002: \n\n2001: \n\n2000: \n\n1999: \n\n1998: \n\n1997: \n\n1996: \n"}
{"id": "14919990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14919990", "title": "Predator (franchise)", "text": "Predator (franchise)\n\nThe Predator film series is a science fiction action franchise based on a race of fictional extraterrestrials created by Jim Thomas and John Thomas. Produced by 20th Century Fox, the series started in 1987 with the film \"Predator\", which led to two sequels and novel, comic book, and video game spin-offs. Related to the franchise is the \"Alien vs. Predator\", which combine the eponymous Predator with the creatures from the \"Alien\" film series.\n\n\"Predator\" was John McTiernan's first studio film as director. The studio hired screenplay writer Shane Black to not only play a supporting role in the film, but to keep an eye on McTiernan due to the director's inexperience. Jean-Claude Van Damme was originally cast as the film's creature, the idea being that the physical action star would use his martial arts skills to make the creature an agile, ninja-esque hunter. When compared to Arnold Schwarzenegger, Carl Weathers and Jesse Ventura, actors known for their bodybuilding regimes, it became apparent a more physically imposing man was needed to make the creature appear threatening. Eventually, Van Damme was removed from the film and replaced by the actor and mime artist Kevin Peter Hall.\n\nThe predator creature's design is credited to special effects artist Stan Winston. While flying to Japan with \"Aliens\" director James Cameron, Winston, who had been hired to design the Predator, was doing concept art on the flight. Cameron saw what he was drawing and said, \"I always wanted to see something with mandibles\". Winston then included them in his designs. Schwarzenegger recommended Winston after his experience working on \"The Terminator\".\n\nThe film's creature was originally designed with a long neck, a dog-like head and a single eye. This design was abandoned when it became apparent that the jungle locations would make shooting the complex design too difficult. Originally, the studio contracted the makeup effects for the alien from Richard Edlund's \"Boss Film Creature Shop\". However, with problems filming the creature in Mexico and attempts to create a convincing monster of Van Damme, wearing a much different body suit, failing, makeup effects responsibilities were given to Winston and his studio, R/Greenberg Associates. According to former \"Boss Film Creature Shop\" makeup supervisor Steve Johnson, the makeup failed because of an impractical design by McTiernan that included length extensions that gave the creature a backward bent satyr-leg. The design did not work in the jungle locations. After six weeks of shooting in the jungles of Palenque, Mexico, the production had to shut down so that Winston could make the new creature. This took eight months and then filming resumed for five weeks.\n\nThe sound of the creature was provided by Peter Cullen. Despite his resolution not to voice any more monsters following injuries to his throat sustained during the ADR of King Kong, his agent convinced him to audition. The bubbling sound was inspired by a mixture of the visual of the creature and his recollection of a dying horseshoe crab.\n\nR/Greenberg Associates created the film's optical effects, including the creature's ability to become invisible, its thermal vision point-of-view, its glowing blood, and the electric spark effects. The invisibility effect was achieved by having someone in a bright red suit (because it was the farthest opposite of the green of the jungle and the blue of the sky) the size of the creature. The take was then repeated without the actors using a 30% wider lens on the camera. When the two takes were combined optically, a vague outline of the alien could be seen with the background scenery bending around its shape. For the thermal vision, infrared film could not be used because it did not register in the range of body temperature wavelengths. The glowing blood was achieved by green liquid from chem-lite sticks used by campers. The electrical sparks were rotoscoped animation using white paper pin registered on portable light tables to black-and-white prints of the film frames. The drawings were composited by the optical crew for the finished effects.\n\nAlso, in an interview on \"Predator\" Special Edition, actor Carl Weathers said many of the actors would secretly wake up as early as 3 a.m. to work out before the day's shooting, in order to look \"pumped\" during the scene. Weathers also stated that he would act as if his physique was naturally given to him, and would work out only after all the other actors were nowhere to be seen. It was reported that actor Sonny Landham was so unstable on the set that a bodyguard was hired; not to protect Landham, but to protect the other cast members from him.\n\nAccording to Schwarzenegger, filming was physically demanding as he had to swim in very cold water and spent three weeks covered in mud for the climactic battle with the alien. In addition, cast and crew endured very cold temperatures in the Mexican jungle that required heat lamps to be on all of the time. Schwarzenegger also faced the challenge of working with Kevin Peter Hall who could not see in the creature's suit. Hall could not see out of the mask and had to rehearse his scenes with it off and then memorize where everything was. The outfit was difficult to wear because it was heavy and off-balance.\n\nThe film was particularly successful and subsequently inspired a number of comic books, video games and popular anecdotes within the media. Schwarzenegger was asked to reprise his role in a \"Predator\" sequel, but was already attached to \"\" and could not accept the role. The character was rewritten from the developing sequel's script, and the sequel to \"Predator\", directed by Stephen Hopkins, was scheduled for 1990.\n\nDue to excessive violence, \"Predator 2\" was the first film to be given the newly instituted NC-17 rating in the United States. It was eventually rated R by the Motion Picture Association of America after being re-cut to its final theatrical length. The film cast Danny Glover in the lead role, and reprised Kevin Peter Hall as the Predator. Also, returning to the role of Anna in the sequel, Elpidia Carrillo was slated to be in two scenes but was cut back to a brief appearance on a video screen in the government agents' surveillance trailer. Her character is showing damage to the Central American jungle caused by the explosion at the conclusion of the first film\n\nAn elite paramilitary rescue team, led by Major \"Dutch\" is on a covert operation in Central America when they encounter an alien who hunts them for sport.\n\nIn 1997, a different Predator arrives in Los Angeles and begins hunting violent gang members, drawing the attention of the local police force. The creature itself is in turn being hunted by a secretive government task-force seeking to capture it for study.\n\nIn 2009, it was announced that Robert Rodriguez would relaunch the franchise. Rodriguez had written a script titled \"Predators\" before he had filmed \"Desperado\". In 2009, 20th Century Fox studio executive Alex Young called Rodriguez to consider using his treatment as the basis of reviving the individual \"Predator\" franchise. Writer Alex Litvak was hired to write the screenplay. Nimród Antal was signed on to direct the film. The film follows an ensemble cast of characters including Royce (Adrien Brody), a mercenary who appears along with murderers and otherwise undesirable people in a Predator game preserve jungle planet . The film stars Adrien Brody, Alice Braga, Danny Trejo, Walton Goggins, Oleg Taktarov, Topher Grace, Mahershalalhashbaz Ali, Louis Ozawa Changchien and Laurence Fishburne.\n\nIn June 2014, Fox announced a sequel that Shane Black would direct and co-write with Fred Dekker, and John Davis would produce. Davis has said of the film that he thought it was fresh and reimagined the franchise in a \"different, interesting way\". In February 2016, Black confirmed the title of the new sequel would be \"The Predator\". It was slated for a March 2, 2018, release date. Schwarzenegger revealed to \"TheArnoldFans.com\" in an interview that he was discussing returning to the film as his character. Shane Black referred to the project as an event film that aims to elevate the Predator series: \"It’s an attempt to ‘event-ise’ the Predator again... [An attempt to] make it more mysterious.\" Black also said that the film would mark a return to the \"intimate\" scale of the original film and that the film-makers hoped to achieve “the same sense of wonderment and newness that \"Close Encounters\" had when that came out.” Rapper 50 Cent spoke of the possibility of being involved in the film. \n\nShane Black confirmed that the film would be set in the present day and the eponymous character would have upgraded armor. Black also indicated that the film would not be a complete reboot as it would acknowledge the events of \"Predator\" and \"Predator 2\". Filming was expected to commence in Vancouver in September 2016, with a projected release date of February 9, 2018. In September 2016, Benicio del Toro signed on to star in the film. The following month, Boyd Holbrook was in negotiations to replace del Toro, who departed due to scheduling issues. Filming was delayed to February 20, 2017. On November 3, 2016, The Hollywood Reporter reported that Olivia Munn was in talks to play a role. On November 21, 2016, Larry Fong was announced as the cinematographer for the film. In January 2017, Trevante Rhodes, Keegan-Michael Key and Jacob Tremblay joined the cast while Sterling K. Brown and Thomas Jane were in talks. Black announced on his Twitter account that filming began on February 20, 2017 and wrapped up on June 2. Additional re-shoots in Vancouver started on March 12.\n\nThe producer, John Davis, says that \"The Predator\" will set up two sequels that he hopes Shane Black will return to direct. About this, Black said: \"I would love to say we've been planning a trilogy, but I take one day at a time, in motion-picture terms that's one movie at a time.\" The box office results of The Predator in China may encourage 20th Century Fox to press on with another sequel.\n\nInspired by the Dark Horse Comics series, the filmmakers of \"Predator 2\" (1990) incorporated an easter egg in which an Alien skull was seen in a Predator trophy case. Expansions upon this shared universe between the \"Alien\" and \"Predator\" franchises followed, through comics and video games, until a film franchise was launched with the release of \"Alien vs. Predator\" in 2004, followed by the sequel \"\" in 2007, which spawned various new comics, novels, video games, and other merchandise based upon or inspired by the films.\n\nIn 2004, a Predator mothership arrives in Earth orbit to draw humans to an ancient Predator training ground on Bouvetøya, an island about one thousand miles north of Antarctica. A buried pyramid giving off a \"heat bloom\" attracts a group of explorers led by Charles Bishop Weyland (Lance Henriksen), the original founder and CEO of Weyland Industries, who unknowingly activates an Alien egg production line as a hibernating Alien Queen is awakened within the pyramid. Three Predators descend unto the planet and enters the structure, killing all humans in their way with the intention of hunting the newly formed Aliens, while the scattered explorers are captured alive by Aliens and implanted with embryos. Two Predators die in the ensuing battle with an Alien. The third Predator allies itself with the lone surviving human, Alexa \"Lex\" Woods (Sanaa Lathan), while in their way out of the pyramid as it is destroyed by the Predator's wrist bomb and eventually battles with the escaped Alien Queen on the surface. The Queen is defeated by being dragged down by a water tower into the dark depths of the frozen sea, but not before she fatally wounds the last Predator. The orbiting Predator mothership uncloaks and the crew retrieves the fallen Predator. A Predator elder gives Lex a spear as a sign of respect, and then departs. Once in orbit it is revealed that an Alien Chestburster was present within the corpse, thus a Predalien hybrid is born.\n\nSet immediately after the events of the previous film, the Predalien hybrid aboard the Predator scout ship, having just separated from the mothership shown in the previous film, has grown to full adult size and sets about killing the Predators aboard the ship, causing it to crash in the small town of Gunnison, Colorado. The last surviving Predator activates a distress beacon containing a video recording of the Predalien, which is received by a veteran Predator on the Predator homeworld, who sets off towards Earth to \"clean up\" the infestation. When it arrives, the Predator tracks the Aliens into a section of the sewer below the town. He removes evidence of their presence as he moves along using a corrosive blue liquid and uses a laser net to try to contain the creatures, but the Aliens still manage to escape into the town above. The Predator fashions a plasma pistol from its remaining plasma caster and hunts Aliens all across town, accidentally cutting the power to the town in the process. During a confrontation with human survivors, the Predator loses its plasma pistol. The Predator then fights the Predalien singlehandedly, and the two mortally wound one another just as the US air force drops a tactical nuclear bomb on the town, incinerating both combatants along with the Predalien's warriors and hive, as well as the few remaining humans in the town. The salvaged plasma pistol is then taken to a Ms. Yutani of the Yutani Corporation, foreshadowing an advancement in technology leading to the future events of the \"Alien\" films.\n\nThere have been a number of spin-offs in other media including a large number of crossovers within the \"Aliens\" fictional universe. These include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4010666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4010666", "title": "Queer pedagogy", "text": "Queer pedagogy\n\nQueer pedagogy (QP) is an academic discipline devoted to exploring the intersection between queer theory and critical pedagogy, which are both grounded in Marxist critical theory.\n\nQP explores and interrogates the student/teacher relationship, the role of identities in the classroom, the role of eroticism in the teaching process, the nature of disciplines and curriculum, and the connection between the classroom and the broader community with a goal of being both a set of theoretical tools for pedagogical critique / critique of pedagogy and/or a set of practical tools for those doing pedagogical work.\n\nAccording to William Pinar, a curriculum theorist at the University of British Columbia, homosexuality and pedagogy have been linked as far back as the ancient Greeks and Romans. Modern notions of queer theory in education, however, originate around 1981 with Pinar's \"Understanding Curriculum as Gender Text,\" critiquing the way in which machisimo and masculinity plays out in Marxist educational theory. In 1982, Meredith Reiniger wrote about misogyny that had been internalized by her secondary English students. In 1983, James Sears wrote an article entitled \"Sexuality: Taking off the Masks\" for a journal called \"Changing Schools\".\n\nThe term \"queer pedagogy\" itself, however, appears to have originated in 1993 with an article in the \"Canadian Journal of Education\". This article was written by two Canadian professors, Mary Bryson (University of British Columbia) and Suzanne de Castell (Simon Fraser University), who were grappling with poststructuralist and essentialist theories of identity in the context of a classroom setting. They present various techniques that they tried, but eventually conclude that the task is both necessary and impossible, concluding: \"Queer pedagogy it is indeed, that, after all, in trying to make a difference we seem only able to entrench essentialist boundaries which continue both to define and to divide us.\"\n\nIn 1995, Deborah Britzman wrote an article entitled \"Is there a queer pedagogy-- Or, stop reading straight.\"\n\nIn 1998, as part of William Pinar's anthology \"Queer Theory in Education\", the challenge of articulating a queer pedagogy was taken up by a doctoral student at York University, Susanne Luhmann. In \"Queering/Querying Pedagogy? Or, Pedagogy is a Pretty Queer Thing\" (part of a larger anthology on Queer Theory in Education), she asks questions such as, \"Is a queer pedagogy about and for queer students or queer teachers? Is a queer pedagogy a question of queer curriculum? Or, is it about teaching methods adequate for queer content? Or, about queer learning and teaching-- and what would that mean? Moreover, is a queer pedagogy to become the house pedagogy of queer studies or is it about the queering of pedagogical theory?\" She suggests that an \"inquiry into the conditions that make learning possible or prevent learning\" through exploration of the teacher/student relationships and \"the conditions for understanding, or refusing, knowledge.\"\n\nIn 2002, Tanya Olson (who teaches Developmental English at Vance-Granville Community College) further explored the teacher/student relationship in an article in \"Bad Subjects\", an online cultural studies journal. In this article, entitled \"TA/TG: The Pedagogy of the Cross-Dressed\", Olson compared the experience of being a butch woman and not knowing which restroom and whether one was male or female to use to the experience of being a Teaching Assistant (TA) and not being fully a student or a teacher, drawing on it for inspiration towards creating a new conception of pedagogy. She concludes, \"Maybe re-defining TAs in the academy will help stop the sense of masquerade that currently characterizes their work. No matter how much they challenge accepted cultural standards or straddle societal binary divisions, everyone deserves a bathroom they can call home. From there we can create a pedagogy of the cross-dressed.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24488251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24488251", "title": "Rapid automatized naming", "text": "Rapid automatized naming\n\nRapid automatized naming (RAN) is a task that measures how quickly individuals can name aloud objects, pictures, colors, or\nsymbols (letters or digits). Variations in rapid automatized naming time in children provide a strong predictor of their later ability to read, and is independent from other predictors such as phonological awareness, verbal IQ, and existing reading skills. Importantly, rapid automatized naming of pictures and letters can predict later reading abilities for pre-literate children.\n\nThe concept of rapid automatized naming began with a study by Geshwind and Fusillo in 1966. They found some adults who suffered from a stroke were later unable to name colors despite being able to color match and having no evidence of color blindness. These individuals however were able to spell and write, indicating that their brain structures were intact and that they could generate the pathway from spoken words to visual and kinaesthetic representations. This visual-verbal disconnection led to a search for individuals who could not read and may be unable to name colors, primarily grade one students. It was found that in grade one students who could not read, color naming was possible but took much longer than color naming in children who could read.\n\nThe first color naming task was located in Ruesch and Wells Mental Examiner’s Handbook (1972). It consisted of 50 squares of 5 primary colors repeated in random order 10 times. The test was originally administered as a timed continuous test at the bedside of individuals recovering from head injury.\n\nRapid automatized naming was first identified in 1974 as predicting reading abilities in young English readers between 5–11 years of age by Martha Denckla and Rita Rudel of Columbia University.\n\nFaster times in RAN trials have been found to be a good indicator of reading competence, not only in alphabetic writing systems, but in writing systems such as Chinese logographs and Japanese kanji and hiragana. RAN testing has been shown to be effective in testing reader’s fluency in languages with orthographically transparent alphabetic scripts such as German and Dutch. Timed reading tests of poor readers of transparent orthographies show very few reading errors; their main reading problem is slow, laborious decoding for words that are automatically read by their peers. This was also found for other readers in languages with consistent orthographies such as Spanish, Italian and Dutch. English is an inconsistent orthography because it has poor letter sound correspondences. English orthography and French orthography are also inconsistent because of their use of silent letters.\n\nIt has been found that continuous rapid naming of a list, compared to naming of single items, is easier for nondyslexic readers than it is for dyslexic ones. Despite this, Wimmer, Mayringer and Landerl (2000) suggest that the diagnosis of dyslexia in English readers often overlooks naming-speed deficit and that most studies rely on poor word recognition to diagnose reading disability.\n\nRapid automatized naming can be used in many different ways. One of its strengths is flexibility in what types of stimuli categories it uses. Different categories consist of colors, digits, objects and letters. Researchers use RAN to test orthographic interpretation and phonological awareness. Two RAN tests are the CTOPP and TOWRE. Two formats of RAN testing are used, discrete and serial testing.\n\nUsing a serial testing method, participants are shown a row or column of symbols and must name the symbols sequentially as fast as possible. An assumption made of serial RAN testing is that it consists of two components: articulation time (the mean time it takes to articulate the symbol), and pause time (the mean length of time between naming two adjacent symbols). When referring to pause time, this can include saccadic eye movements, disengagement from previously named symbols and focusing on upcoming symbols.\n\nUsing the discrete testing method, participants are shown symbols individually usually on a computer screen. In discrete RAN testing each individual symbols' naming latency is measured. The naming latency consists of the mean time from presentation to articulation of symbol. It is scored using the mean naming latency of all symbols. Some theorists believe that discrete RAN testing reflects the retrieval of phonological code from memory which can also be referred to as lexical access speed.\n\nSome researchers argue that discrete testing is a better method because of individual differences in the reading speed of a list of sight words; the relationship of RAN and reading will be stronger if sight word reading speed is measured by discrete presentation.\n\nToday RAN is frequently used as a clinical instrument for diagnosing reading disabilities in children. It is often used to predict category membership in reading group sub-types. Some concerns with diagnosis using rapid automatized naming arise because it assesses a wide range of cognitive skills. Speed and accuracy can be influenced by many different processing mechanisms and variables, including the perceived speed of the object to be named. Another concern is identifying which cognitive mechanisms are shared with reading. It is not clear whether RAN is testing orthographic knowledge or whether it is testing phonological processing.\n\nThe role RAN plays in testing reading ability is contentious. Research supports the use of RAN as a measure of phonological processing, as a measure of orthographic processing and integration, and as a measure of reading ability. It has been suggested that RAN may link to reading because reading depends on object-naming circuits in the left cerebral hemisphere that are recruited in reading to underpin word-recognition abilities.\n\nLittle is known about the mediator variable between phonological awareness and RAN and the relationship between phonological awareness and RAN.\n\nResearchers argue that RAN tests \"the ability to retrieve phonological representations rapidly from long-term memory\". Part of this view consists of RAN as tapping into the phonological system by measuring the rate of retrieval of phonological information in long term memory. \"The theoretical underpinnings being that, beyond the precision or accuracy of the grapheme–phoneme representations itself, rapid access to phonological representations is the main prerequisite to develop automaticity in reading a transparent writing system\".\n\nOthers however dispute the link between RAN testing and phonological processing. They argue that phonological awareness is more strongly related to pure decoding ability, whereas naming speed appears to be more strongly related to reading fluency. Similarly, other researchers view RAN as a sub-process of phonological awareness. In this view RAN is seen as a task that draws on accessing phonological codes for effective execution. Although the relationship between RAN and phonological awareness is monotonic, these measures do not produce uniform changes. Instead, as reading skills increase or decrease, RAN and phonological awareness skills do not change uniformly.\n\nAn alternative view is that RAN plays a larger role in measuring orthographic processing. Here RAN is believed to measure processes that are important in gaining orthographic representations. Studies have been conducted where RAN has been seen to measure reading of different kinds of words. These researchers argue that \"the relationship of RAN with reading should be higher if the reading task requires more orthographic knowledge.\" The results of some studies tend to support this prediction as stronger relationships were found with exception word reading.\n\nStill other studies focus on the relationship between phonological processing and orthographic processing. \"The fact that RAN as a predictor of reading and spelling was not affected by orthographic regularity seems to suggest that RAN is a compound skill that consists of several sub-processes that are related to early literacy development. These processes might very well imply both orthographical and phonological skills\".\n\nThere are several theories why rapid automatized naming is associated with reading abilities. One suggestion is that they both exploit the speed with which phonological representations are retrieved from long-term memory. Another related theory is that both depend on variations in the rate of development of a general cognitive speed of information processing. Evidence exists that RAN’s contribution to reading ability decreases as we age. Longitudinal studies report that the contribution of naming speed to reading skills after grade 3 diminishes, whereas the contribution of phonological awareness remains constant.\n\nThe validity of RAN in measuring reading ability is based on three assumptions. First, that RAN deficits and phonological deficits are independent of one another. Secondly, the relationship between RAN and phonological awareness varies according to reading maturity. Finally, naming speed is a complex process involving processes beyond the phonological system.\n\nLabelling RAN as a measure of reading ability ignores many complexities of the task. Schatschneider et al. argue \"that rapid naming tasks are composed of attentional, visual, lexical, temporal, and recognition sub-processes that all contribute to naming speed performance. Lumping all these sub-processes under the category of phonological processes obscures the complexity of rapid naming tasks. Such a hypothesis is consistent with the finding that naming speed tasks consistently account for variance in early reading skills beyond that accounted for by measures of phonemic awareness\".\n\nAnother viewpoint is that rapid automatized naming directly relates to differences in reading competence. Supporting this is the fact that the ability to rapidly name digits and letters predicts reading better than rapidly naming colors and objects. This suggests a difference due to differences in experience with letters. However, rapid automatized naming of colors, objects, numbers and letters measured in children before they learn to read predicts later differences in reading skill, while early differences in reading ability do not predict later differences in rapid automatized naming.\n\nIt has been proposed that dyslexia is due to a \"double-deficit hypothesis\" in which phonological deficits and naming-speed deficits are two separate causes of reading problems, such that when they are combined, they produce a greater dyslexic defect than would be produced by either deficit individually.\n\nThe double-deficit hypothesis suggests that RAN and phonological awareness operate as independent systems that are equally important in word identification. This model is based on literature showing that phonological disabilities and naming speed-deficits underlie some forms of reading disabilities. In the case of modest or severe reading disability, the concurrence of both a phonological deficit and rapid naming deficit characterizes the most difficult forms of reading disabilities. These individuals score lowest on reading measures.\n\n"}
{"id": "445786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445786", "title": "Reading Recovery", "text": "Reading Recovery\n\nReading Recovery is a school-based, short-term intervention designed for children aged five or six, who are the lowest achieving in literacy after their first year of school. For instance, a child who is unable to read the simplest of books or write their own name, after a year in school, would be appropriate for a referral to a Reading Recovery program. The intervention involves intensive one-to-one lessons for 30 minutes a day with a trained literacy teacher, for between 12 and 20 weeks.\n\nReading Recovery was developed in the 1970s by New Zealand educator Marie Clay. After lengthy observations of early readers, Clay defined reading as a message-getting, problem-solving activity, and writing as a message-sending, problem-solving activity. Clay suggested that both activities involved linking invisible patterns of oral language with visible symbols. Reading Recovery is an application of Whole Language instructional principles in an attempt to address the needs of struggling readers.\n\nA combination of teacher judgment and systematic evaluation procedures identify those lowest-achieving children for whom Reading Recovery was designed. The lowest performing children (the bottom 5-20% depending on the context) are identified using the Observation Survey (Clay, 2002), a multi-faceted series of assessment tools covering early reading and writing. The Observation Survey has been standardized in the UK and US to determine its validity and reliability, however coefficients have not been reported. \nOnce a child has been identified and referred to the Reading Recovery program, intervention is developed. The intervention is different for every child, assessing what the child knows and what s/he needs to learn next. The focus of each lesson is to understand and construct \"messages\"—to understand messages in reading and construct messages in writing—and to learn how to attend to detail without losing focus on meaning.\n\nDaily 30 minute lessons are individually designed and delivered by specially trained teachers. Drawing from their training, Reading Recovery teachers make moment-to-moment decisions to support the child's learning. During each lesson, children read many little books. These include two to three familiar books, a rereading of the previous day's new book and the introduction and reading of a new story. Teachers take a running record of the previous day's new book to analyse the child's independence and reading behaviour. Children also compose, write and read their own messages or stories. Magnetic alphabet letters are used for sorting, to assist visual discrimination, and to look closely at how words work. Reading skills, including phonetic skills, are taught in the context of extended reading and writing by Reading Recovery teachers who have completed a year-long inservice education program that focuses on moment-to-moment responses to children's actions and behaviour.\n\nThe intervention goal is to bring children up to the level of their peers and to give them the assistance they need to develop independent reading and writing strategies. Once they are reading and writing at a level equivalent to that of their peers, their series of lessons is discontinued.\n\nThe intervention is not intended as an alternative to classroom teaching, but is complementary, to enable children to engage in their classroom program.\n\nAn essential component of the Reading Recovery program is the training of the teachers who provide the tutorial instruction. Reading Recovery teachers learn to observe, analyse, and interpret the reading and writing behaviours of individual students and to design and implement an individual program to meet each student's needs. Just as the Reading Recovery children engage in learning through social interaction with the teacher, Reading Recovery teachers engage in learning through social interaction with their colleagues and mentors to construct a view of learning and teaching that supports literacy development. Reading Recovery has one of the best professional development protocols in the field of beginning reading.\n\n\"Reading Recovery\" has been disseminated around a number of English-speaking countries. The phrase \"Reading Recovery\" is a registered trademark held by the Marie Clay Trust in New Zealand, with The Ohio State University in the US and the Institute of Education (http://www.ioe.ac.uk/) in the UK.\n\nInternational Reading Recovery Trainers Organization (IRRTO)\n\nThe International Reading Recovery Trainers Organization (IRRTO) provides leadership for all entities affiliated with the Reading Recovery early literacy intervention founded by Prof. Marie M. Clay.\nWebsite: http://irrto.us/\n\nReading Recovery New Zealand\n\nThe National Reading Recovery Centre is located at The University of Auckland Faculty of Education, Epsom Campus.\nWebsite: http://www.readingrecovery.ac.nz/\n\nReading Recovery Council of North America\n\nThe Reading Recovery Council of North America, Inc. is a not-for-profit association of Reading Recovery professionals, advocates, and partners. It is an advocate for Reading Recovery throughout North America.\nWebsite: http://www.readingrecovery.org/\n\nInstitute of Education, University of London\n\nThe International Literacy Centre (http://ilc.ioe.ac.uk/) is located at the Institute of Education, part of the University of London. Reading Recovery is at the International Literacy Centre's core, with its integrity applied to everything the Centre offers. There are over 60 Reading Recovery centres throughout the UK, Republic of Ireland and in Denmark.\nWebsite: http://www.ioe.ac.uk/\n\nCanadian Institute of Reading Recovery (CIRR)\n\nThe Reading Recovery network in Canada operates under the Canadian Institute of Reading Recovery (CIRR) on three levels: schools, districts, and regional divisions. The CIRR oversees and supports the operations of Reading Recovery, including training and supporting training, and upholding the Standards and Guidelines.\nWebsite: http://www.readingrecovery.org/reading_recovery/canada/index.asp\n\nReading Recovery in Australia\n\nReading Recovery operates through state and territory departments of education as well as catholic education offices. These comprise:\n\n\nIn 2015, a report from the New South Wales Department of Education , concluded that Reading Recovery was largely ineffective, and should not be used for most children . As a result, in 2016, Reading Recovery lost its \"mandated status\" as part of the curriculum in NSW's more than 900 public schools, although individual schools may still opt to use it . A further consequence of this shift in policy is that, in 2017, the NSW Department of Education initiated a hiring program to recruit dozens of new literacy and numeracy experts to support teachers in \"evidence-based professional learning\", according to NSW Minister for Education, Rob Stokes .\n\n\n\n\nReading Recovery has been widely researched throughout the world. Research has investigated effectiveness, cost benefits, continued progress and self-esteem.\n\n\"Effectiveness\"\n\n\"Continued progress\"\n\n\"Self-esteem\"\n\n\"Research reviews\"\n\n\"Cost effectiveness\"\n\n"}
{"id": "24476925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24476925", "title": "Robert Kirby (humor columnist)", "text": "Robert Kirby (humor columnist)\n\nRobert Kirby (born 1953 in California) is an American writer. He has been a columnist for the \"Salt Lake Tribune\" since 1994, focusing on the quirks of Utah and Mormon culture.\n\nKirby was born into a military family. in Barstow, California. He served as a missionary for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Uruguay, where he met his future wife. On his return from Uruguay, he was hired as a police officer with the Grantsville Police Department, and later the Springville Police Department (1979). \n\nKirby began writing columns for the local newspapers the Springville Daily Herald and \"Utah County Journal\" under the pseudonym \"Officer John \"Blitz\" Kreeg\"\n\nIn 1989, Kirby quit the police force to write full-time. The \"Salt Lake Tribune\" has published his column since 1994, winning the 2007 Utah Headliners Award.\n\nIn September 2018, Kirby was suspended from the \"Salt Lake Tribune\" for three months without pay, following an internal investigation into multiple complaints regarding his treatment of women. This included the allegation that while attending a convention in July 2018 he made inappropriate sexual comments to a young woman, co-erced her into consuming an illegal drug, then outed her as a user. Kirby issued a written apology stating he was \"sorry that my actions have offended people\" and acknowledged that there was some truth to the allegations, but initially did not apologize for the actions and words themselves. However, subsequent statements carried a fuller acknowledgement of his responsibility and his understanding of the harmful nature of his words and actions: \n\"In his own written statement, Kirby said: “I’m profoundly sorry that my actions have offended people in the community. I have a lot of work to do in understanding the pain I have caused.\n“After discussing my conduct with Tribune management,” he continued, “I am more aware of the consequences of my actions and I will be undergoing training and counseling to become a better person.”\n\nKirby, who is active in the LDS Church, often writes about its teachings and how its members interpret those teachings in their daily lives. Since many of the \"Salt Lake Tribune\"'s readers are non-Mormon, Kirby attempts to explain (usually in a humorous way) the Mormon way of thinking to outsiders. At one time he referred to himself as an \"OxyMormon\". This approach either alienates those Latter-day Saints who feel their beliefs should not be satirized, or endears itself to the reader. Despite this discordant reception, Kirby was once quoted favorably in the LDS Church's bi-annual General Conference.\n\nAs of 2017, Kirby lives in Herriman, Utah. He and his wife have three daughters and nine grandchildren.\n\nNovels:\n\nHumor:\n\nNon-fiction:\n"}
{"id": "9305343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9305343", "title": "Róisín Dubh (song)", "text": "Róisín Dubh (song)\n\n\"Róisín Dubh\" (, \"Dark Rosaleen\" or \"Little Dark Rose\"), written in the 16th century, is one of Ireland's most famous political songs. It is based on an older love-lyric which referred to the poet's beloved rather than, as here, being a metaphor for Ireland. The intimate tone of the original carries over into the political song. It is often attributed to Antoine Ó Raifteiri, but almost certainly predates him.\n\nThe song is named after Róisín Dubh, probably one of the daughters of Aodh Mór Ó Néill, earl of Tyrone in the late 16th Century. The song is reputed to have originated in the camps of Aodh Rua Ó Domhnaill.\n\nThis song is traditionally sung in the Irish language, with only a few recordings of the English existing. It has been translated from the Irish language by James Clarence Mangan and Patrick Pearse. The following translation is by Thomas Kinsella (\"The New Oxford Book of Irish Verse\", 1986).\n\nRóisín Dubh has been frequently performed and recorded, both in its own native Irish and translated into English. (However, quality of the translations vary greatly, from strict ones to those bearing no relationship to the original Irish.) It has been sung by numerous Irish traditional singers including the late Joe Heaney and Maighread Ní Dhomhnaill, as well as in genres ranging from classical to rock and jazz.\n\nThe instrumental range is as wide as the vocal, but the instruments best suited to render this air authentically are the native Irish uilleann pipes, flute, fiddle, and whistle, as these are capable of making the \"caoine\" (\"cry\"), the note-shaping and changing that is characteristic of the native Irish music. However, other versions using different instruments are also widely available.\n\nMusicians/composers who have performed or recorded the song include these:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55051316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55051316", "title": "SEVEN (brand)", "text": "SEVEN (brand)\n\nSEVEN is an Indian lifestyle brand that manufactures and markets casual and sportswear clothing and footwear. The brand was launched in February 2016 by famous Indian cricketer and former captain of the Indian national cricket team, Mahendra Singh Dhoni. Dhoni is the brand ambassador of SEVEN and also owns footwear side of the business.\n\nSEVEN was launched by RS Seven Lifestyle (owned by Rhiti Group) and MS Dhoni on 19 February 2016 in New Delhi. Dhoni was announced as the global brand ambassador. The brand was launched as a lifestyle brand, with plans to manufacture and market sportswear; both clothing and footwear. Clothing and fashion accessory side of the brand is owned by RS Seven Lifestyle whereas footwear side of the brand is owned by MS Dhoni. Dhoni also has a licensing agreement with RS seven. to were spent by investors in development and distributions of the brand. Manufacturing for the brand is done in India, China and Vietnam.\n\nThe brand name \"SEVEN\" coincides with the ODI and T20 shirt number of MS Dhoni..\nSeven is official merchandise partner of Chennai Super Kings\n\nSEVEN has fifteen distributors in India. It also has distributors in the United States and in Middle East. Flipkart is the official e-commerce partner of the brand. The brand is available at more than 300 multi-brand retail stores in India. On 20 July 2017, first outlet of SEVEN was launched in Dhoni's hometown Ranchi.\n\nOfficial website\n"}
{"id": "180337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180337", "title": "Scholarship", "text": "Scholarship\n\nA scholarship is an award of financial aid for a student to further their education. Scholarships are awarded based upon various criteria, which usually reflect the values and purposes of the donor or founder of the award. Scholarship money is not required to be repaid.\n\nThis article primarily addresses scholarships in North America.\n\nWhile the terms are frequently used interchangeably, there is a difference. Scholarships may have a financial need component but rely on other criteria as well.\n\n\nGrants, however, are offered based exclusively on financial need and determined using the applicant's FAFSA information.\n\nThe most common scholarships may be classified as:\n\nOf increasing interest in the United States are \"last dollar\" scholarships. These can be provided by private and government-based institutions, and are intended to cover the remaining fees charged to a student after the various grants are taken into account. To prohibit institutions from taking last dollar scholarships into account, and thereby removing other sources of funding, these scholarships are not offered until after financial aid has been offered in the form of a letter. Furthermore, last dollar scholarships may require families to have filed taxes for the most recent year; received their other sources of financial aid; and not yet received loans.\n\nIt is typical for people to find scholarships in their home regions. Information on these can be found by asking local institutions and organizations. Typically, these are less competitive as the eligible population is smaller.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11376634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11376634", "title": "Spanish Enlightenment literature", "text": "Spanish Enlightenment literature\n\nSpanish Enlightenment literature is the literature of Spain written during the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nDuring the 18th century a new spirit was born (it is in essence a continuation of the Renaissance) which swept away the older values of the Baroque and which receives the name of \"Enlightenment\". This movement laid its foundations in a critical spirit, in the predominance of reason and experience, philosophy and science were the most valued sources of knowledge. The period is also known as the \"century of lights\" or the \"century of reason\". In short, human happiness was pursued by means of culture and progress. The new winds that caused that art and literature were oriented towards a new classicism (Neoclassicism). The expression of feeling was avoided, norms and academic rules were followed, and balance and harmony were valued. At the end of century a reaction against so much rigidity arose, a return to the world of the feelings taking its place; this movement is known as \"Pre-romanticism\".\n\nThe 18th century began with the War of the Spanish Succession (1701–1714). The European powers, worried about the hegemonic power of the French king Luis XIV, together with his grandson Felipe de Anjou, whom Carlos II had named heir to the throne, formed the Great Alliance and endorsed the putsches of Archduke Carlos of Austria to accede to the crown. After the Treaty of Utrecht, Felipe V (1700–1746) was recognized King of Spain, although he later lost his dominions in Menorca and Gibraltar. In 1724, he abdicated in favor of his son Luis I, but when the latter died months later, he returned to assume the Spanish throne. During his reign, he developed a centralist policy and reorganized Public Property.\n\nAfter the death of Felipe V, Fernando VI (1746–1759) succeeded him, who, with ministers like Carvajal and Marqués de la Ensenada, improved communications and the road network of the country, encouraged naval constructions and favored the development of the sciences.\n\nAfter the reign of Felipe V, his stepbrother Carlos III succeeded to the throne. Prototype of illustrated monarch, he relied on the support of important ministers, like Floridablanca, Campomanes, Aranda, Grimaldi and Marqués de Esquilache. Without leaving the model of the Old Regime, he modernized the country, repopulated the Sierra Morena, and favored education, commerce and public works.\n\nDuring the reign of Carlos IV, the French Revolution exploded (1789). Because of his weakness and the ambition of minister Godoy, he had to abdicate in favour of his son Fernando VII, after the invasion by the French in 1808.\n\nIn the last decades of the 17th century, the Old Regime, based on the predominance of the ecclesiastical, military and aristocratic classes, entered into crisis in Europe. In this century, Europe critically reviewed the established order. Reason and the critique prevailed, and the experimental method and studies founded on reason are impelled.\n\nThe anxiety for knowledge became general. Court meetings left place to the bourgeois salons, cafés or cultural institutions. A necessity was felt to travel by reasons of study or pleasure, to know other languages, to make sport to keep the body fit or to improve the conditions of life of the citizens.\n\nIn this new attitude, the illustrated person is a philanthropist that worries about others, and proposes and undertakes reforms in the aspects related to the poor and society. They defended religious tolerance, and skepticism was put into practice and it was even reached to attack religions. In opposition to the absolute monarchies, Montesquieu defended the bases of modern democracy and the separation of the legislative, executive and judicial powers. The illustrated people wanted to enjoy freedom and to choose their own governors. All that inspired the motto of the French Revolution: Freedom, Equality, Brotherhood.\n\nThe illustrated theories had their origin in England, although they reached their peak in France, where they were gathered in the Encyclopédie (Encyclopedie, or reasoned dictionary of the sciences, the arts and the offices, 1751–1772), published by Jean Le Rond d'Alembert and Denis Diderot. In this work they gathered all the existing knowledge of their time, in alphabetical order.\n\nDuring the reign of the minor Austrias, Spain practically abandoned the scientific studies, seen with suspicion and continuously persecuted by the Inquisition. The delay with regard to Europe was evident at the beginning of the 18th century. Nevertheless, some intellectuals since the end of the 17th century refused to leave the investigation; not exent of risks, they were always up-to-date about the European discoveries in astronomy, medicine, mathematics or botany. These scholars are the so-called \"novatores\" (\"innovating ones\", contemptuously called this way). They spread the theories of Galileo Galilei, Kepler, Linnaeus or Isaac Newton. Among the \"novatores\", Juan de Cabriada, Antonio Hugo de Omerique, Juan Caramuel, Martínez, Tosca and Corachán stand out. In the 18th century, the legacy that they left was continued by other scientists like Jorge Juan, Cosme Bueno, Antonio de Ulloa, etc.\n\nAfter the War of Succession, the Bourbons found a Spain sunk in misery and ignorance. The Iberian Peninsula hardly had seven million and a half inhabitants. With a French political conception, Felipe V fortified the monarchic power and harnessed a process of centralization in the nation, abolishing the fueros and the laws of Aragón and Catalonia. The Church maintained its dominion, although some religious orders like the Company of Jesus fell, already at time of Carlos III. On the other hand, the common people, formed by livestock farmers, crop farmers, civil employees and marginalized people, lacked rights. The monarchs gradually reduced some privileges of the hereditary aristocracy and adopted a \"regalista\" or critical position in front of the Church, with the purpose of making a series of basic reforms. At the end of century, the quality of life of the Spaniards had been improved, as it is demonstrated by the increase of the population in almost three million inhabitants, a figure which is nevertheless smaller than the ones of other European countries.\nEnlightenment ideas entered Spain through diverse ways:\n\nThe maximum splendor of the Enlightenment in Spain occurred during the reign of Carlos III and its decay, about the dates of the French Revolution (1789) and the Napoleonic invasion of the Iberian Peninsula (1808). The illustrated people, in spite of counting on the support of the Crown, did not obtain the recognition of the majority; many were described as pro-strangers and accused of attacking the tradition and the religious education. After the French Revolution, some were persecuted and even jailed.\n\nIn this century, a fight in favor of the clarity and naturalness of the artistic language is fought, in which many writers fought against the rests of the Baroque style that still survived, that is to say, the use of artifices at which the late Baroque had arrived.\n\nLatin was used in universities as academic language, but little by little it was being replaced in that role. Spaniards wanted to return to the splendor of the Golden Age as literary language, but for that it was necessary to develop forms of expression in agreement with the European experimental sciences, work which was developed by Feijoo, Sarmiento, Mayans, Jovellanos, Forner, Capmany, among others. In 1813, after the War of Independence, the Meeting created by the Regency to make a general reform of education ordered the exclusive use of the Spanish in the university.\n\nMany of the illustrated people, for the modernization of Spain, defended the implantation of education in other languages (French, English, Italian) in the centers, and the translation of outstanding works to Castilian. To the first were opposed those who defended the priority of the classic languages (Latin and Greek) as opposed to the modern ones, and to the second were opposed those who rejected the translations because they would introduce unnecessary foreign words in the Spanish language and would endanger its identity. Two positions arose thus: casticismo, that defended a pure language, without neither mixture of voices nor strange turns, with words documented by the authorities (the Royal Spanish Academy); and purismo, that was totally against the penetration of neologisms, mainly the foreign ones, blaming its opponents for being stainers of the language.\n\nThree stages in the Spanish Literature of the 18th century can be distinguished:\n\nThe narrative is almost nonexistent in Spain during this period. Practically it is reduced to the \"Life\" of Diego de Torres Villarroel, or to the story \"Fray Gerundio de Campazas\" of José Francisco de Isla.\n\nAnother modality of great influence in this time was the newspaper. Literary, scientific, or of curiosities, publications like the \"Newspaper of the Literate of Spain\", \"The Censor\" or \"The Mail of Madrid\" contributed to spread the theories and the ideas of the moment in Spain, laying the principles of the Enlightenment.\n\nOn the contrary, the essay is the dominant genre. This educative and doctrinal prose shows a desire to approach the problems of the moment, tends to the reform of the customary and usually makes use of the epistolar form.\n\nThe benedictine friar Fray Benito Jerónimo Feijoo y Montenegro (Orense, 1676 - Oviedo, 1764) had an aristotelian formation. His works reached numerous editions and provoked many controversies, so many that Fernando VII, in an act of enlightened despotism, had to defend him by designating him his honorary advisor and prohibiting the attacks against his work and his person.\n\nHis knowledge was manifested in a multitude of essays that he grouped in the eight volumes of \"The universal critical theater\" (1727–1739) and in the five of \"Erudite and curious letters\" (1742–1760). Feijoo saw the necessity of writing to move Spain away from its delay; with this intention, he gave a didactic character to his work, noticeably catholic, but with the intention that the new European currents penetrated, at least, in the illustrated classes. He was very critical with the superstitions and the false miracles.\n\nFeijoo contributed to the consolidation of the Castilian as a cultured language by defending its use as opposed to the Latin, that still was used in the universities. He also accepted the introduction of new voices, when they were necessary, without concerning where they came. His production covers very diverse fields like economy, politics, astronomy, mathematics, physics, history, religion, etc. His style was characterized by its simplicity, naturalness and clarity. For many critics, the Spanish prosa becomes modern with Feijoo.\n\nJovellanos (Gijón, 1744 – Puerto de Vega, Asturias, 1811) is probably the most important essayist of the 18th century. Coming from an accommodated family, he studied law and he was destined to Seville, where he made epistolar contact with the Salmantine poetic School. In Madrid, as Mayor of House and Court, his political activity was in constant increase. After an exile, he was named minister of Grace and Justice by Godoy, and later, Advisor of State. When the confidence in the minister was lost, he was imprisoned in Majorca in the Castle of Bellver until the Riot of Aranjuez, that overthrew Godoy, gave him back the freedom. In 1808 he took part in the Central Meeting that confronted the Napoleonic army. He was persecuted by the French and he tried to be transferred to Cadiz, but the meteorological inclemencies forced him to take refuge in the Vega de Navia port, where he died.\n\nJovellanos began to write lyric poetry with the pastoral name (very common in his time) of Jovino, and with illustrated ideals. Like Cadalso, he satirized the uneducated aristocracy in his satire \"A Arnesto\". But soon he got tired of the poetry, which he considered to be an adolescent game to which the reason was not applied, and which was improper of a respectable man. Curiously, years later he invites in verse to the insurrection of 1808 in the \"Song for the Astures against the French\".\n\nHe also composed \"The honest delinquent\", an illustrated reformist drama. A law had been promulgated that condemned the survivor of the duels to death, considering the offender and the victim equally guilty; Jovellanos based his drama on this, because for him only the offender was the culprit. The work follows the line of the sentimental comedy, so admired in France, and its tone is already Preromantic.\nClarity, concision and sobriety are the characteristic features of the didactic work of Jovellanos.\n\nJosé Cadalso y Vázquez de Andrade (1741–1782) is another of the great prose writers of the 18th century. He wrote important literary works, whose most important creation was \"Moroccan Letters\". It was said of him that he had a vast culture, probably enriched by his trips to England, France, Germany and Italy. He was a military man and he received the colonel rank. He was deeply in love with the actress María Ignacia Ibáñez, whose excesses that she committed caused her death at a very early age. Cadalso tried to unearth her, action which caused his exile to Salamanca (ordered so that he was cured of his insanity). He was later destined to Extremadura, Andalusia, Madrid and finally Gibraltar, place where he died during the Great Siege of Gibraltar. His body was laid to rest in Santa Maria la Coronada Parish Church in San Roque, Cádiz.\n\nAs poet, and under the name of \"Dalmiro\", he composed the work \"Leisures of my youth\" (1771). His love towards the actress María Ignacia Ibáñez made him approach the dramatic world. Although he wrote three tragedies, only one of them was represented, and with little success, \"Don Sancho García, count of Castile\" (1771). His work in prose is however more extensive. In \"Dismal nights\" he narrates in dialogue form his frustrated yearning for rescuing the body of María Ignacia from the tomb. Entirely neoclassical is the book \"The erudites to the violet\", against the false intellectuals; seven lessons that satirize those who try to know much studying little.\n\nNevertheless, the \"Moroccan Letters\" (1789), published posthumously, are the ones that give the most importance to the literary production of Cadalso. According to a very cultivated model in France (for example, the Persian Letters of Montesquieu), the author composes a book with ninety letters written between Gazel, moor that visits Spain, his Moroccan teacher and friend Ben-Beley, and Nuño Núñez, Christian friend of Gazel. They comment on the historical past of Spain and its present life, and they judge the work of the governors and the customs of the country.\n\nIn 1737, Ignacio de Luzán gathered the aesthetic ideas of the Neoclasicism in his \"Poética\". This style prevailed in Spain imposing criteria of utility and service to the humanity, next to desires of aesthetic pleasure. The artistic ideals imported from France and the \"good taste\" and the courtesy dominated, while feelings and passions were repressed. The subjection to the norms was general, fleeing from the spontaneity and the imagination, which were replaced by the didactic eagerness.\n\nThe neoclassical poetry treated historical, customary and satirical subjects. In the variant denominated \"Rococó\", more luxurious and recharged, the pastoral themes that raised the pleasure and the gallant love dominated. Habitual forms were odes, epistles, \"elegías\" and romances.\n\nImportant names of the Spanish poetry are Juan Meléndez Valdés, the maximum Spanish representative of the Rococó, Nicolás Fernández de Moratín and the story-tellers Tomás de Iriarte and Félix María Samaniego.\n\nThe neoclassical literature was developed mainly in three cities: Salamanca, by people related to its University; Seville, with the influence of its assistant (position similar to mayor) Pablo de Olavide; and Madrid, around its boarding house of San Sebastián. This way, the writers of that tendency are grouped in schools or poetic groups: The Salmantine school, in which Cadalso, Meléndez Valdés, Jovellanos and Forner are found; the Sevillian school, in which the writers Manuel María de Arjona, José Marchena, José María Blanco and Alberto Lista are included, who soon evolved towards a starting Romanticism (Preromanticism); and the Madrilenian group, formed by Vicente García de la Huerta, Ramón de la Cruz, Iriarte, Samaniego and both Fernández de Moratín.\n\nMeléndez Valdés (Ribera del Fresno, Badajoz, 1754 - Montpellier, France, 1814) is considered one of the best poets of the 18th century. He was university professor in Salamanca, where he maintained friendship with Cadalso and Jovellanos. He worked as a jurist, occupying destinies in Zaragoza, Valladolid and finally in Madrid, where he worked as public prosecutor of the Supreme Court. Once that his mentor, Jovellanos, fell in misfortune before Godoy, his exile to Medina del Campo was ordered, later to Zamora and finally to Salamanca. He was pro-French during the War of Independence and he avoided being shot in Oviedo, but he had to exile himself after the defeat of the French army.\n\nTwo stages in the lyric of Meléndez Valdés can be differentiated:\n\nHis style in the beginnings was artificial and conventional, but later it became very well cared for and precise. He himself defined his intention when writing: \"I have taken care of explaining myself with nobility and of using a language worthy of the great subjects that I have treated\".\n\nIn the court and in the bourgeois environment the reformist ideas of the 18th century penetrated quickly. In addition to the Academies there were also other particular initiatives which influenced very much in the literature, as it is the case of the boarding house of San Sebastián, founded by Nicolás Fernández de Moratín and his son Leandro, along with Cadalso and Jovellanos.\n\nTwo writers were also members of the Madrilenian group. With the purpose of correcting defects and showing the rational values, they wrote fables.\nThey were Tomás de Iriarte (La Orotava, Tenerife, 1750 - Madrid, 1791) and Félix María Samaniego: (La Guardia, Álava, 1745–1801).\n\nLike Salamanca, the Sevillian city also had a great poetic tradition. In 1751 the \"Academy of the Good Letters\" was founded, which promoted the literary activity. As of 1760, and as a result of the arrival of Pablo de Olavide as intendant of the Government of Andalusia, the culture in that city was impelled remarkably. In 1776, that illustrated person is persecuted and jailed by the Inquisition.\n\nBy influence of José Cadalso and Meléndez, more recharged and colorist poems were written than in the Salmantine school, also influenced by Fernando de Herrera. In the Sevillian school poets like Manuel María Arjona (1771–1820), José Marchena (1768–1820), José María Blanco (1775–1841) and Alberto Lista (1775–1848) stood out. They wrote patriotic poems urging to fight by the freedom, after the invasion of the French and the return of Fernando VII, already in the 19th century. Some of them finished in the exile.\n\nIn theater, the main cultivators were those of the Madrilenian group. They were put under which the classic and modern rulers taught, and they created a theater which followed the political and moral interests of the time. Three tendencies existed:\n\nTheater adopted the new fashions that arrived from France. In the neoclassical theater also the reason and the harmony prevailed as norm. The so-called \"rule of the three units\" was obeyed, which demanded a single action, a single scene and a coherent chronological time in the development of the dramatic action. The separation between the comical and the tragic was established. The imaginative containment prevailed, eliminating everything which was considered exaggerated or of \"bad taste\". An educative and moralizing purpose was adopted, which would serve to spread the universal values of culture and the progress.\n\nAlthough less rationalist than other genres, tragedy cultivated historical subjects, as is the case of the most known, \"Raquel\", of Vicente García de la Huerta. But without doubt the most representative theater of the moment was that of Leandro Fernández de Moratín, creator of what has been called \"moratinian comedy\". As opposed to the tragic genre, the most common then, and which his father Nicolás practiced, and as opposed to the customary and kind sainete of Ramón de la Cruz, Moratín Jr ridiculed the vices and the customs of his time, in a clear attempt to turn the theater into a vehicle to moralize the custom.\n\nSon of Nicolás Fernández de Moratín, Leandro (Madrid, 1760 - Paris, 1828) is the main author of theater in the 18th century. His neoclassical direction is due to his father. Protégé of Jovellanos and Godoy, he traveled by England, France (he was present at the outbreak of the French Revolution) and Italy. He fell enamored with Paquita Muñoz, much younger than him, whom he did not marry according to his desire of not contracting commitments. He was pro-French and he accepted from José Bonaparte the position of Great Librarian, reason why he was exiled to France, where he died after the defeat of the invaders.\n\nAs poet, he wrote satirical poems like the \"Satire against the introduced vices in the Castilian poetry\", theme that he returns to treat in prose in \"The defeat of the pedantic ones\". The present critic considers Moratinos to be the most outstanding lyric writer of the 18th century. In the poem \"Elegía a las musas\", being already old, he sayd goodbye to the poetry and the theater, which had been his reason of living.\n\nAs dramatic author, he wrote solely five comedies that gave a great reputation to him among illustrated people. In \"The old man and the girl\" and \"The yes of the girls\" (1806), he defends the right that the woman has to accept or not her spouse against the imposition of the family, because until then it was frequent to marry young girls with wealthy old men. In \"La mojigata\", he criticizes the hypocrisy and the false devotion. Another comedy is \"The baron\", and finally \"The new comedy or The coffee\" (1792) is a ridicule towards the authors who ignore the aristotelian rules.\n\nThe sainete-writer Ramón de la Cruz (Madrid, 1731–1794) was one of the most applauded authors by the public and most criticized by the illustrated people (although some of them, seeing the popular support of his work, withdrew). He began writing tragedies of neoclassical cut, rejecting the \"out of order\" theater that people preferred. Nevertheless, his economic necessities made him approach less illustrated genres but more acclaimed by the public and the actors. This way he began to write zarzuelas of Spanish thematic and, simultaneously, sainetes. Of these he wrote more than four hundred, generally in octosyllabic verses, and some in endecasyllabic. The personages of this theater subgenus are popular (nerve girls, smart boys, deceived husbands, ruined bricklayers, chestnut sellers, nobleman of low grade, etc.) and the action usually happens in Madrid: \"The prairie of San Isidro\", \"El Prado in the evening\", \"El Rastro in the morning\"; its end sometimes wants to be exemplary. The most famous of his sainetes is \"Manolo\", satire of the theater that his neoclassical enemies wrote. With his maxim \"I write and the truth dictates\", he could find in the people an inexhaustible source, the same that, with greater depth, would inspire Francisco de Goya.\n\nSome works of the Salmantine school augur the beginning of the Romanticism. Thus, in \"The lugubrious nights\" of José Cadalso, the madness, tetric and nocturnal atmospheres, and a great loving passion, are introduced. Other important authors are Nicasio Álvarez de Cienfuegos (1764–1809), Manuel José Quintana (1772–1857), Juan Nicasio Gallego (1777–1853) and José Somoza (1781–1852).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15587594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15587594", "title": "Sustainable art", "text": "Sustainable art\n\nSustainable art is art in harmony with the key principles of sustainability, which include ecology, social justice, non-violence and grassroots democracy.\n\nSustainable art may also be understood as art that is produced with consideration for the wider impact of the work and its reception in relationship to its environments (social, economic, biophysical, historical and cultural).\n\nAccording to the contemporary art historians and curators Maja and Reuben Fowkes, the origins of sustainable art can be traced to the conceptual art of the late 1960s and early 1970s, with its stress on dematerialisation and questioning of the functioning of the art system. They also connect the rise of the concept of sustainability to the ending of the Cold War in 1989 and the emergence of a new awareness of the global character of ecological and social problems. Sustainable art adopts, according to these authors, a critical position towards some key practitioners in the land art movement of the 1960s, who showed little concern for the environmental consequences of e.g. treating the landscape like a giant canvas with a bulldozer for a brush. They have questioned the polemical division between 'autonomous' and 'instrumental' art originating with modernism, arguing that it is 'autonomy that gives art, as well as artists as social actors, the potential to be free and able to offer alternatives to dominant ideological paradigms.'\n\nSince 2005 there is a Sustainable Arts Biennale running at Ihlienworth near Hamburg, Germany, curated by the German conceptional artist and curator Samuel J. Fleiner.\nThere are a range of interpretations over the relations between art and sustainability, besides the term 'sustainable art' promoted by Maja and Reuben Fowkes: Other authors prefer the broader notions of 'sustainability arts' or 'art and sustainability' (e.g. Kagan and Kirchberg). Still others explicitly rejected the use of the term 'sustainable art', referring instead to 'artistic work that inspires us to think about sustainability\" (Margot Käßmann).\n\nProfessional discussion of the relationship of contemporary art to notions of sustainability blossomed across Europe in the early years 2000, with e.g. the conference of the German Society for Political Culture (Instituts für Kulturpolitik der Kulturpolitischen Gesellschaft e.V.), in January 2002 at the Art Academy of Berlin, and the 'Tutzinger Manifest'. An International Symposium on Sustainability and Contemporary Art took place at Central European University, in Budapest (Hungary) in March 2006. This was the first in a series of international symposia organised by Maja and Reuben Fowkes bringing together contemporary artists, philosophers, environmental sciences and acvitists to explore common ground around issues such as 'Exit or Activism' (2008), 'Hard Realities and the New Materiality' (2009) and 'Art, Post-Fordism and Eco-Critique' (2010).. In March–April 2007 at the Leuphana University Lüneburg, the Arts Research Network of the European Sociological Association focused its attention on the recent movements and approaches to 'arts and sustainability' at its biennial conference.\n\nKey texts in the emerging field of sustainable art include 'Kultur - Kunst - Nachhaltigkeit' (2002) by Hildegard Kurt and Bernd Wagner, ‘The Principles of Sustainability in Contemporary Art’ (2006) by Maja and Reuben Fowkes and 'Art and Sustainability' (2011) by Sacha Kagan. A collection of interdisciplinary analyses of the arts and cultures with relationship to sustainability is available in 'Sustainability: a new frontier for the arts and cultures' (2008) edited by Sacha Kagan and Volker Kirchberg.\n\nExhibitions devoted explicitly to \"sustainable art\" include e.g. ‘Beyond Green: Towards a Sustainable Art’ at the Smart Museum in Chicago in November 2005. For an analysis of the conflictual politics of sustainability and the ambiguity of the term sustainability (which oscillates between \"ecological sustainability\" and \"economic sustainable development,\" see TJ Demos, “The Politics of Sustainability: Art and Ecology” (2009). For a recent account of the multi-faceted role of contemporary art in highlighting environmental issues, expressing criticism towards unsustainable factors in society, and offering imaginative solutions for the achievement of sustainability, see Maja and Reuben Fowkes's essay on 'Art and Sustainability' in Enough for All Forever (2012).\n\nModern sustainable artists include artists who are using non-toxic, sustainable materials in their art practices as well as integrating conceptual ideas of sustainability into their work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22726015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22726015", "title": "The Invention of Lying", "text": "The Invention of Lying\n\nThe Invention of Lying is a 2009 American fantasy romantic comedy film written and directed by Ricky Gervais and Matthew Robinson (in their directorial debuts). The film stars Gervais as the first human with the ability to lie in a world where people can only tell the truth. The supporting cast features Jennifer Garner, Jonah Hill, Louis C.K., Rob Lowe, and Tina Fey. The film was released in the United States on October 2, 2009.\n\nThe film is set in an alternative reality in which lying does not exist.\n\nMark Bellison is a screenwriter, in a film industry limited to historical readings because there is no fiction. One night he has a date with the beautiful and wealthy Anna McDoogles. She tells Mark she is not attracted to him, because of his looks and failing financial situation, but is going out with him as a favour to his best friend, Greg Kleinschmidt.\n\nThe next day, Mark is fired from his job because of the lack of interest in his films (which are set in the lackluster 14th century), and his landlord threatens to evict him for not paying his rent. Crestfallen, he goes to the bank to close his account. The teller informs him that the computers are down and asks him how much money he has in his account. Mark then has an epiphany that enables him to tell the world's first lie, which is that he has $800 — the amount he owed his landlord — in his account. He then lies in a variety of other circumstances, initially for personal gain; he prevents a police officer from arresting Greg for drunk driving, breaks the bank at a casino, and writing a screenplay about the world being invaded by aliens in the 14th century that ends with the claim that everyone's memories were erased. He becomes wealthy from the film's success. Mark soon realises that lying can also be used to help others, such as stopping his depressive neighbour Frank Fawcett from committing suicide. Soon after, Mark convinces Anna to go out with him again. She congratulates Mark for his financial success and admits that he would be a good husband and father, but she is still not attracted to him. \n\nMark then gets a call that his mother has had a heart attack and rushes to the hospital. There, the doctor tells him that his mother is going to die. She is scared of death, believing that it will bring an eternity of nothingness. Mark, through tears, tells her that death instead brings a joyful afterlife, introducing the concept of a Heaven to her, and she dies happy. Mark soon receives worldwide attention as the news of his supposed information about death spreads. After encouragement from Anna, he tells the world, through \"ten rules\" (mirroring the Ten Commandments), that he talks to a \"Man In The Sky\" who controls everything and promises great rewards in the good place after death, as long as you do no more than three \"bad things\". \n\nSome time later, Anna and Mark are together in a park and Anna asks him, if they marry, if his now being rich and famous would make their children more physically attractive. Mark wants to lie, but does not because of his love for Anna, and says \"No\". Meanwhile, Mark's rival, Brad Kessler, pursues Anna romantically, motivated by his jealousy at Mark's success. Though Brad's selfish and cruel manner makes Anna uncomfortable, she continues dating him and they become engaged. Before the wedding, Greg appears and convinces Mark that he has not missed his chance with Anna. Mark reluctantly attends Anna and Brad's wedding, where he objects to the marriage. The officiant, however, informs him that only the Man in the Sky can stop the wedding. Brad and Anna both ask Mark to ask the Man in the Sky what Anna should do, but Mark refuses to say anything and leaves, wanting Anna to choose for herself. Anna walks out and Mark confesses his ability to lie. Anna struggles to understand the concept and asks why he did not lie to convince her to marry him; Mark states that it \"wouldn't count\". Anna confesses that she loves him.\n\nSome time later, Anna and Mark are shown happily married with a son, who appears by his actions to have inherited his father's ability to lie.\n\nMatthew Robinson’s script which was titled \"This Side of Truth\" at the time, was included in 2007 official Black List of the “most liked” un-produced scripts in Hollywood. Robinson and producer Lynda Obst sent Ricky Gervais the script out of the blue in the hopes that it would spark his interest. Gervais loved it and eventually flew Robinson to London to retool the script and make the movie. Robinson’s original idea for a feature film grew from a skit he wrote about two people on a date who do not have the ability to lie. He later expanded on the idea for more skits with the same premise and then adapted them it into a full film script.\n\nProduction of the film originally used the title \"This Side of the Truth\".\n\nMedia Rights Capital and Radar Pictures financed the film. However, 1821 Pictures sued Radar Pictures for a breach of payment contract. Shooting took place primarily in Lowell, Massachusetts; location shoots also took place in Quincy, Andover, North Andover, Sudbury, Tewksbury, Boston, Massachusetts and Haverhill, Massachusetts. Principal photography was completed in June 2008.\n\nThe soundtrack includes Elvis Costello's otherwise-unreleased rendition of the Cat Stevens song \"Sitting\".\n\nSongs also include: Eddie and the Hot Rods' \"Do Anything You Wanna Do\", Donovan's \"Catch the Wind\", Supertramp's \"Give a Little Bit\" and Electric Light Orchestra's \"Mr. Blue Sky\".\n\nWarner Bros. owns the rights for the film's North American distribution, while Universal Pictures owns the rights to release the film outside of North America. The film was released in North America on October 2, 2009. Its world premiere occurred two weeks earlier at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival on September 14, 2009.\n\nThe DVD and Blu-ray were released on January 19, 2010. Gervais briefly promoted the DVD during his hosting duty at the 67th Golden Globe Awards in a joking manner, referring to its modest box office results.\n\nReview aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports that 56% of 188 critics have given the film a positive review, with a rating average of 5.9/10. The site's consensus says, \"It doesn't quite follow through on its promise, and relies too heavily on shopworn romantic comedy tropes, but \"The Invention of Lying\" is uncommonly sly and funny.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating out of 100 to reviews from film critics, the film has a rating score of 58 based on 31 reviews, suggesting \"mixed or average reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" awarded the film three and a half stars out of four saying \"in its amiable, quiet, PG-13 way, [it] is a remarkably radical comedy\". Xan Brooks of \"The Guardian\" was also favourable, giving the film four out of five stars, although he was critical of some aspects: \"It is slick and it is funny. But it is also too obviously schematic, while that romantic subplot can feel awfully synthetic at times.\" Manohla Dargis of \"The New York Times\" called it a \"mostly funny if melancholic defense of deceit\" that \"looks so shoddy that you yearn for the camerawork, lighting and polish of his shows, like the original \"The Office\", because, really, these days TV rarely looks this bad.\" In some scenes, Dargis says \"lying becomes a means to transcendence, an escape from the quotidian, from our oppressive literal-mindedness, from our brute selves. For the most part, though, Mr. Gervais prefers to shock us with our own brutality...[with] unvarnished truths [that] begin to feel heavy, cruel.\"\n\nThe film opened at #5 with US$7,027,472 behind \"Zombieland\", \"Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs\" in its third weekend, the \"Toy Story\"/\"Toy Story 2\" 3-D double feature, and \"Surrogates\" in its second weekend. The film has grossed US$18,451,251 in the United States, and US$13,955,256 internationally, with a worldwide gross of US$32,406,507.\n\n"}
{"id": "39206015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39206015", "title": "The Legend of Diyes", "text": "The Legend of Diyes\n\nThe Legend of Diyes is the story of the northward migration of the Thracian tribe Dii to the country of Odin. The Dii initially lived among the foothills of the Rhodope Mountains in Thrace.\n\n"}
{"id": "9903293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9903293", "title": "The Moon Moth", "text": "The Moon Moth\n\n\"The Moon Moth\" is a science fiction short story by American author Jack Vance, first published in \"Galaxy Science Fiction\" (August 1961).\n\nEdwer Thissell, the new consul from Earth to the planet Sirene, has trouble adjusting to the local culture. The Sirenese cover their faces and heads with exquisitely crafted masks that indicate their social status (\"strakh\") and mood. They also communicate by singing, accompanying themselves with one of a score of musical instruments, selected based on the social situation and feelings. Furthermore, errors of etiquette may prove fatal. Thissell is a clumsy musician and lacks confidence in the alien society, so he is forced to wear a lowly Moon Moth mask. \n\nOne day, he receives an alert to arrest a notorious assassin named Haxo Angmark, who is due on the next starship. Thissell, however, gets the message too late. He races to the spaceport, but Angmark, thoroughly comfortable with Sirenese customs, has already landed and disappeared. Thissell commits a number of serious social blunders in his haste to reach the spaceport and in enquiring after Angmark.\n\nThe next morning, Thissell is shown the body of an offworlder. He concludes that, since the fugitive would be unable to pass himself off as a native, Angmark must have killed and taken the place of one of the other three expatriates on the planet. But since even they wear masks, how is Thissell to know which one?\n\nEventually, Thissell solves the mystery by borrowing a slave from each of the suspects and determining their masters' mask preferences before and after Angmark's arrival. He succeeds in identifying his quarry, but is captured and forced to walk unmasked in public (the ultimate humiliation to the natives), while Angmark masquerades as Thissell by wearing his Moon Moth mask. However, the Sirenese turn on Angmark and kill him for the perversion of unmasking another man and, ironically, for Thissell's previous gaffes.\n\nThinking quickly, Thissell cleverly represents his humiliation as an act of unsurpassed bravery, asking if any present would be willing to be so shamed in order to destroy his enemy. With his new-found confidence, Thissell receives offers of gifts (the acceptance of which would enhance the prestige of both the giver and the recipient). He first goes with a mask maker to procure a covering more befitting his lofty new \"strakh\".\n\nFirst Second Books published a graphic novel edition by Jack Vance and illustrated by Humayoun Ibrahim in May 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1266489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1266489", "title": "The Pagemaster", "text": "The Pagemaster\n\nThe Pagemaster is a 1994 American live-action/animated fantasy adventure film starring Macaulay Culkin, Christopher Lloyd, Whoopi Goldberg, Patrick Stewart, Leonard Nimoy, and Frank Welker. The film was produced by Turner Pictures and released by 20th Century Fox on November 23, 1994.\n\nThe film was written for the screen by David Casci, based on a six-page pitch by writer Charles Pogue entitled \"Library Days,\" presented to Casci by producer David Kirschner. The film was directed by Joe Johnston (live action) and Pixote Hunt and Glenn Chaika (animation), and produced by David Kirschner and Paul Gertz.\n\nPessimistic 10-year-old Richard Tyler lives life based on statistics and fears everything. His exasperated parents have tried multiple ways to build up the courage of their son, but to little success. Richard is sent to buy a bag of nails for building a treehouse. However, Richard gets caught in a harsh thunderstorm and takes shelter in a library. He meets Mr. Dewey, an eccentric librarian who insists that he is in need of a special book and gives him a library card, despite Richard explaining he is only sheltering from the storm. Searching for a phone, Richard finds a large rotunda painted with many famous literary characters. He slips on water dripping from his coat and falls over, knocking himself out. Richard awakens to find the rotunda art melting, which washes over him and the library, turning them into illustrations.\n\nHe is met by the Pagemaster, the mythical Keeper of Books and Guardian of the Written Word. Richard asks for directions to the exit so the Pagemaster sends him through the fiction section toward the green neon exit sign. Along the way, Richard befriends three anthropomorphic books: Adventure, a swashbuckling pirate-like book; Fantasy, a sassy but caring fairy tale book; and Horror, a fearful \"Hunchbook\" with a misshapen spine. The three agree to help Richard if he checks them out using his new library card. Together, the quartet encounters classic-fictional characters. They meet Dr. Jekyll who turns into Mr. Hyde, driving them to the open waters of the Land of Adventure. However, the group is separated after Moby-Dick attacks, following the whale's battle with Captain Ahab. Richard and Adventure are picked up by the \"Hispaniola\", captained by Long John Silver. The pirates go to Treasure Island, but find no treasure except for one gold coin, nearly causing a mutiny. Fantasy and Horror return and defeat the pirates. Silver attempts to convince Richard to leave with him, but surrenders when Richard threatens him with a sword.\n\nIn the fantasy section, Richard sees the exit sign on the top of a mountain. However, Adventure's bumbling awakens a dormant dragon. Richard tries to fight the dragon with a sword and shield, but the dragon swallows him. Richard finds books in the dragon's stomach and uses a beanstalk from \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" to escape through the dragon's mouth. He and the books climb the beanstalk to reach the exit. They enter a large dark room where the Pagemaster awaits them. Richard accuses the Pagemaster of causing the horrors that he suffered, but the Pagemaster reveals the journey was intended to make Richard face his fears. Dr. Jekyll, Captain Ahab, Long John Silver, and the dragon reappear in a magical twister and congratulate him. The Pagemaster then swoops Richard and the books into the twister, sending them back to the real world.\n\nRichard awakens, finding Adventure, Fantasy, and Horror lying next to him as real books. Mr. Dewey finds him, and, even though the library policy only allows a person to check out two books at time, lets him check out all three books \"just this once\". Richard returns home a braver child, sleeping in his new treehouse with his books.\n\n\n\nThe Pirates of the Hispaniola are voiced by Richard Erdman, Fernando Escandon, Dorian Harewood, and Robert Picardo.\n\n\"The Pagemaster\" took three years to produce; the animation in the film was produced by Turner Feature Animation, headed by David Kirschner and recently spun off from Hanna-Barbera. The crew included animators who were veterans of productions such as \"An American Tail\" (1986) (also produced by David Kirschner and composed by James Horner), \"The Land Before Time\" (1988) and \"Aladdin\" (1992). This was one of the first films to feature live-action, traditional animation, and CGI animation all together. One scene involving a computer-generated dragon made from paint was used, a challenge for the filmmakers. All of the fictional works featured in the film were created and first published before January 1, 1923, making them a part of the public domain in most countries. The theme songs to the movie are \"Dream Away\", sung by Babyface and Lisa Stansfield, and \"Whatever You Imagine\", sung by Wendy Moten.\n\nMany of the cast members have had roles in the \"Star Trek\" franchise: Patrick Stewart played Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Whoopi Goldberg played , Leonard Nimoy played Mr. Spock, Christopher Lloyd played Kruge in \"\", Ed Begley Jr. played Henry Starling in a two-part episode of \"\", George Hearn played Dr. Berel in an episode of \"\", and B.J. Ward played numerous characters in \"Star Trek\" computer games, as did Jim Cummings. Composer James Horner was also the composer for \"\" and \"\". Frank Welker voiced Spock's screams in \"Star Trek III\" and the alien creature in the \"Star Trek: Voyager\" episode \"\". Robert Picardo played on \"\".\n\nAdditionally, both Nimoy and Welker voiced the character Galvatron in \"Transformers\" (with Nimoy voicing him in , and Welker voicing him in the television series and again in \"\" and \"\").\n\nPromotional advertisements for this film used the theme from the 1984 film, \"The Last Starfighter\".\n\nCasci's original screenplay included a story arc for the protagonist, Richard Tyler (played by Macaulay Culkin), who begins the tale as a boy who hates reading, but by the end of the film, learns to love reading. The revised screenplay by Contreras and Kirschner omitted the reading-themed story arc, instead emphasizing the boy's journey from cowardice to courage.\n\nAccording to the film's animation crew, the film went overbudget during animation production due to mismanagement and changes to the narrative. The 2001 book \"Producing Animation\" by Catherine Winder and Zahra Dowlatbadi (Johnston's assistant on \"The Pagemaster\") recommends against making story changes during the animation process.\n\nFantasy and Long John Silver are voiced by Goldberg and Cummings. The two of them (along with Cheech Marin) voiced the three troublesome hyenas in \"The Lion King\", another animated film released the same year.\n\nAnimation production began in August 1992, and live-action scenes were filmed from September 21 to October 15, 1992. After two years in the making, the film was completed and wrapped in the summer of 1994. According to the copyright holder, it was believed to be made in 1993 (although the film was just released a year later).\n\nThe screenwriting credits for this film were the subject of a protracted legal arbitration with the Writers Guild of America (WGA) when its producer, David Kirschner, attempted to claim sole authorship of the screenplay and original story, with no credit for its original screenwriter, David Casci. Typically, proposed credits are submitted to the WGA for approval well in advance of the release of a movie or the publishing of posters or novelizations on which writing credits appear. In the case of \"The Pagemaster,\" the producers attempted to claim that, as the film was now largely animated, the WGA did not have jurisdiction to determine credits. Casci had written the screenplay under a WGA contract, as well as previous live-action versions for Disney Television dating back to 1985, also written under WGA contract. These facts positioned the WGA to get involved, testing their tenuous authority over a feature film with animated elements.\n\nAfter a lengthy investigation and interviews with those intimately familiar with the genesis of the \"Pagemaster\" project, including three persons within Kirschner's own office, the WGA credit arbitration process determined that David Casci was, in fact, the primary writer, and that Kirschner did not provide a sufficient creative contribution to the writing process to warrant any screenwriting credit. Upon receiving this determination by the WGA, Fox threatened to pull out of arbitration and release the film without WGA-approved credits, positioning the WGA to be forced to file an injunction blocking the film's heavily promoted Christmas season release.\n\nUltimately, a settlement was reached, and Fox released the film with both Kirschner and Casci receiving story and screenplay credit, with a third writer, Ernie Contreras, also receiving screenplay credit.\n\nAt the time, this case was the most expensive and extensive investigation of its type undertaken by the WGA on behalf of one of its members.\n\n\"The Pagemaster\" is presented in an extended cut version. During the production, some original scenes were removed, both live-action and animation. The deleted scenes and characters can be still seen during the making of the film, trailers and TV spots, SkyBox International trading cards, books and other related products. They can be also seen during the sneak peek on the 1993 VHS release of \"Once Upon a Forest\", the 1994 VHS release of \"Rookie of the Year\", and in the promotional trailer of the VHS release of the film on the promotional demo/screener VHS copy in 1995.\n\nThe film was a production by Turner Pictures. 20th Century Fox handled U.S. distribution, while Turner Pictures Worldwide handled International distribution. Turner Broadcasting System handles the broadcasting rights of the film to be aired on their variety of television networks (including Cartoon Network). Warner Bros. now handles International and television distribution to the film as a result of the Turner/Time Warner merger on October 10, 1996.\n\nThe film grossed $13,670,688 in theaters, on a $27 million budget. \"The Pagemaster\" earned a Razzie Award nomination for Macaulay Culkin as Worst Actor for his performance in the movie (also for \"Getting Even with Dad\" and \"Richie Rich\") but lost the award to Kevin Costner for \"Wyatt Earp\".\n\nThe film received a 17% score on Rotten Tomatoes based on 18 reviews. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" criticized the way the film's message came across, calling it a \"sad and dreary film,\" adding that its message seemed to be that \"books can be almost as much fun as TV cartoons and video arcade games.\" Brian Lowry of \"Variety\" said that the film's principal appeal for adults would be its abbreviated running time, and that it did not do enough with its famous fictional characters, noting \"A more inspired moment has Richard using a book, 'Jack and the Beanstalk,' to escape from the belly of a dragon. Unfortunately, such moments are few and far between.\"\nRita Kempley of \"The Washington Post\", however, gave the film a positive review, calling it a \"splendidly original children's fantasy about the world of books.\" James Berardinelli of ReelViews gave another positive review, calling it a \"clever, often engaging, and always fast-paced motion picture\" that \"uses the visual medium to encourage its viewers to reach out with their imagination.\"\n\n\"The Pagemaster\" was first released on VHS and LaserDisc on April 4, 1995. 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment released the film on DVD and Blu-ray on August 6, 2013.\n\nContrary to any claims, the screenplay and film are not based on any book. David Casci's screenplay preceded all novelizations and illustrated books by several years.\n\nA number of books based on the film exist, including an illustrated book attributed to David Kirschner and Ernie Contreras, illustrated by Jerry Tiritilli, which contained large passages from the Casci screenplay without giving Casci writing credit. The film was well into production by the time this book was introduced in the 1993 F. A. O. Schwarz Christmas Catalog. Other properties based on the film include a novelization of the film, children's story books, pop-up books and other film ancillaries such as toys and games.\n\nVideo game adaptations of the film were released the same year as the film. They were developed by Probe Software Ltd. and published by Fox Interactive. The PC and handheld versions of the game are almost entirely different games; the PC game is an interactive game, and the handheld version is a platformer.\n\n"}
{"id": "1619108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1619108", "title": "Trading company", "text": "Trading company\n\nTrading companies are businesses working with different kinds of products which are sold for consumer, business or government purposes. Trading companies buy a specialized range of products, maintain a stock or a shop, and deliver products to customers.\n\nDifferent kinds of practical conditions make for many kinds of business. Usually two kinds of businesses are defined in trading. Importers or wholesalers maintain a stock and deliver products to shops or large end customers. They work in a large geographical area, while their customers, the shops, work in smaller areas and often in just a small neighbourhood.\n\nWhen talking about \"trading companies\", today we refer mainly to global B2B traders, highly specialized in one goods category and with a strong logistic organization.\n\nChanges in practical conditions such as faster distribution, computing and modern marketing have led to changes in their business models.\n\nThe \"Winding-up and Restructuring Act\", an act of the Parliament of Canada, uses the following definition\"\n\n“trading company” means any company, except a railway or telegraph company, carrying on business similar to that carried on by apothecaries, auctioneers, bankers, brokers, brickmakers, builders, carpenters, carriers, cattle or sheep salesmen, coach proprietors, dyers, fullers, keepers of inns, taverns, hotels, saloons or coffee houses, lime burners, livery stable keepers, market gardeners, millers, miners, packers, printers, quarrymen, sharebrokers, ship-owners, shipwrights, stockbrokers, stock-jobbers, victuallers, warehousemen, wharfingers, persons using the trade of merchandise by way of bargaining, exchange, bartering, commission, consignment or otherwise, in gross or by retail, or by persons who, either for themselves, or as agents or factors for others, seek their living by buying and selling or buying and letting for hire goods or commodities, or by the manufacture, workmanship or the conversion of goods or commodities or trees;\nJapan has a special class of \"general trading companies\" (\"sogo shosha\"), large and highly diversified businesses that trade in a wide range of goods and services.\nTrading Companies are mostly b2b business services and they trade by other companies invested money and takes commission.\n\n\n"}
