{"id": "16423854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16423854", "title": "4797 Ako", "text": "4797 Ako\n\n4797 Ako, provisional designation , is a stony Nysian asteroid from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 5 kilometers in diameter. It was discovered on 30 September 1989, by the Japanese astronomers Toshiro Nomura and Kōyō Kawanishi at the Minami-Oda Observatory (), Japan. The asteroid was named for the Japanese city of Akō.\n\n\"Ako\" is a member of the stony subgroup of the Nysa family, which is named after its largest member 44 Nysa. It orbits the Sun in the inner main-belt at a distance of 2.0–2.9 AU once every 3 years and 9 months (1,369 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.18 and an inclination of 2° with respect to the ecliptic.\n\nIn 1978, it was first identified as at Palomar Observatory, extending the body's observation arc by 11 years prior to its official discovery observation at Minami-Oda Observatory.\n\nA rotational lightcurve of \"Ako\" was obtained for the first time from photometric observations made at the U.S. Ricky Observatory, Missouri, in November 2008. It gave a well-defined rotation period of hours with a relatively high brightness variation of 0.90 in magnitude (), indicative of a non-spheroidal shape.\n\nAccording to NASA's space-based Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, \"Ako\" measures 6.0 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo of 0.11, while the \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" (CALL) assumes a standard albedo for stony asteroids of 0.21, and calculates a diameter of 4.0 kilometers, as the higher the albedo (reflectivity), the smaller a body's diameter for a certain absolute magnitude (brightness).\n\nThis minor planet was named for the city of Akō in the Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan, and for its ancient castle on the Seto Inland Sea.\n\nKnown for its salt production, Ako is the birthplace of the fictional account of \"Chūshingura\", a tale about the forty-seven Ronin who committed seppuku after avenging their master. The city is also the home of the second discoverer's private Minami-Oda observatory, where Kōyō Kawanishi observes small Solar System bodies. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 27 June 1991 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "3302444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302444", "title": "A18 road (England)", "text": "A18 road (England)\n\nThe A18 is a road in England that links Doncaster in South Yorkshire with Ludborough in Lincolnshire, via Scunthorpe.\n\n\nThe A18 begins as a dual-carriageway and trunk road at the Balby Flyover junction with the A630 in Balby in Doncaster, under which runs the East Coast Main Line. It meets the A638 (former Great North Road) at the Sidings Roundabout then becomes Carr House Road, overlapping the A638. At the Racecourse Roundabout in Belle Vue, the A638 exits to the right (former Great North Road), and the road becomes Leger Way. Near Intake, it becomes a single carriageway and continues to Scunthorpe. At the Sandall Park Roundabout the road meets its old route and becomes Thorne Road. At the Shaw Lane Roundabout it meets the A630 and runs under a railway line. At the next roundabout, on the edge of Doncaster, the A630 leaves to the right, as a trunk road to the M18. The road, now without trunk (primary) status, passes through Edenthorpe.\nThe road enters Dunsville as High Street and becomes Doncaster Road. In Hatfield, it becomes Manor Road and then High Street, and crosses the M18. It becomes Epworth Road and meets the A1146 near Hatfield Woodhouse, then meets the A614 from the right from Finningley. The road becomes Tudworth Road and overlaps the A614; at the Tudworth Roundabout, the A18 continues to the right.\n\nAs High Levels Bank, it crosses a flat landscape known as Hatfield Chase and enters North Lincolnshire. It runs alongside the large North Engine Drain next to the M180. At Crowle, it meets the A161, close to junction 2 of the M180 and crosses Pilfrey Bridge over the Three Rivers. The A18 meets the B1392 (for Keadby) and passes through Gunness, crossing the B1216 (for Burringham) as Station Road. It meets the A1077 Scunthorpe ring road and the M181 at the Frodingham Grange Roundabout.\nThe road enters the Queensway Roundabout for the trunk road A159 at Old Brumby, becoming the non-trunk dual-carriageway Queensway. It passes through New Brumby, and at the Ashby Ville Roundabout it meets the A1029. The road meets the Briggate Lodge Roundabout on the line of Ermine Street, for junction 4 for the M180 and the trunk-road A15.\n\nAt Scawby Brook, there is a roundabout with the B1206 (for Scawby), and the road enters Brigg to the left as Scawby Road, becoming Bridge Street and then Ancholme Way. The B1206 (former A15) leaves to the left and the road enters Wrawby as Brigg Road and becomes Melton Road.\nThe road passes through Melton Ross and passes next to Humberside Airport. At the B1210 (for Brocklesby) junction, the road heads to the right, entering Lincolnshire and the district of West Lindsey, and passes through Great Limber as High Street. It meets the B1211 and heads to the right as Barton Street (a Roman road). Near Riby, the road becomes a trunk road (until its terminus) then a dual-carriageway close to where it enters North East Lincolnshire.\nThe road meets the A46 Grimsby road, and heads straight on over the roundabout. The A18 used to continue eastwards from here along the present A46 into Grimsby, and now continues southwards over Welbeck Hill along the former B1431. The boundary of Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire runs down the middle of the road for about . The road re-enters Lincolnshire and the district of East Lindsey. The road follows the former A16 from Ludborough to near Utterby, where is meets the A16.\n\nThe last section, between the junction with the A46 at Laceby and the junction with the A16 at Ludborough, was designated by the Road Safety Foundation as the most dangerous in the country for car drivers, drawing on collated data on the number of fatal and serious-injury collisions in 2010. During a 2015 inquest, a coroner called for an independent review of the A18 near Grimsby; the coroner was reacting to the death of a family after a collision with a lorry. In 2016, the government announced that £175 million would be made available for safety improvements on roads like the A18.\n\nThe A18(M) was a short motorway about long that connected the M18, from what is now junction 5 north of Hatfield to the A18. The A18(M) was built in 1972 but was redesignated after the M180 was built in 1978.\n\nThe western end of the M180 from M18 junction 5 to the junction 1 eastbound slip road was previously part of the A18(M). The eastbound slip road to the roundabout was the eastbound carriageway A18(M). About of the westbound A18(M) carriageway was abandoned when the M180 was built on a new alignment.\n\n"}
{"id": "341489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=341489", "title": "A20 road (England)", "text": "A20 road (England)\n\nThe A20 is a major road in south-east England, carrying traffic from London to Dover in Kent. Parts of the route date back to turnpikes established in the early part of the 18th century. The line of the road throughout Kent runs closely in parallel with the M20 motorway.\n\nTraffic leaving London at first takes the A2 road; at New Cross in the London Borough of Lewisham the A20 begins and heads in a south-easterly direction, becoming in turn \"Lewisham Way\" and \" Loampit Vale\". The latter road forms a large junction, where the A21 separates for Hastings. The road now runs through \"Lee High Road\" into \"Eltham Road\", The junction with the A210 contains an unusually long 41 m yellow box junction. and continues as the \"Sidcup Bypass\", crossing the A222 at Frognal Corner and the A224 at Crittall's Corner. Entering Kent, it runs past Swanley and flows directly onto the M20 motorway.\n\nThe main junctions on the London to M25 section are:\n\nThe A20 then passes the racing circuit at Brands Hatch before descending steeply from the North Downs escarpment past Wrotham and on to the county town of Maidstone. The route beyond Maidstone travels East, through the villages of Bearsted, Harrietsham, Lenham and Charing to Ashford.\n\nThe A292 takes over the former A20 through Ashford itself, then the road emerges as it heads through Willesborough and Sellindge in the direction of Hythe. It takes a sharp turn left at Newingreen (the site of the UK's first motel) before entering Folkestone via Cheriton, passing the vehicular entrance to the Channel Tunnel, forming part of the town's original bypass as the trunk road from the M20. The route then follows the coastline, tunnelling through the hills and descending to the docks in Dover, where it meets the A2 again coming down from Canterbury.\n\nPart of the route now followed by the modern road, particularly the western section, was opened as various turnpikes in the 18th century in an effort to improve coaching links between London and the Kent towns.\n\nIn the early days of the Great Britain road numbering scheme the A20 ran through Eltham. along Eltham Road the Sidcup Arterial Road begins, opened in 1923, which carries traffic south of the two towns instead, leaving the A210 and A211 roads following the original route. The nearby town of Swanley was bypassed in 1968, and the short link between the two bypasses was constructed in 1988 (to the south of the Ruxley Corner roundabout).\nA section of the A20 in Ashford formed part of the Ashford By-Pass, a dual carriageway opened in 1957, which used to run from what is now the roundabout with Simone Weil Avenue to the Willesborough roundabout. Simone Weil Avenue is the original A20 bypass, but has been diverted to curtail at Canterbury Road. The eastern end of the old by-pass is now the M20.\n\nThe section between Maidstone and Ashford was the only link between the two separate sections of the M20 for 10 years during the 1980s, until the \"missing link\" of the motorway was completed in May 1991.\n\nNorth of Folkestone the M20 becomes a dual carriageway and enters the Roundhill Tunnel before crossing over and dropping down into Dover. This part of the A20 was completed in 1993 as a project included in the Parliamentary Bill for the Channel Tunnel. During 2011, structural failures in and around the Roundhill Tunnel have caused the A20 to be closed in this area numerous times.\n\n"}
{"id": "3738949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738949", "title": "Albertinus de Virga", "text": "Albertinus de Virga\n\nAlbertinus de Virga (or Albertin de Virga) was a 15th-century Venetian cartographer.\n\nPractically nothing is known of his life, save that he was probably Venetian. Virga is the author of two famous maps:\n\n\nIt has been tentatively suggested that Virga might also have been the author of a third map, an anonymous portolan chart dating from the beginning of the 15th century currently held (Port.40) by the Museo Correr in Venice, Italy.\n\n"}
{"id": "14005209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14005209", "title": "Alqueire", "text": "Alqueire\n\nThe term alqueire is documented in Portugal since the 12th century. It derives from the Arabic \"al kayl\", which designated originally the satchels or baskets carried by pack animals for the transport of goods. The capacity of those satchels, more or less standardized by the ability of the pack animals, was taken as a measure of dry goods, especially grain. In Portugal, it was used as a measure of capacity and, eventually, it was used also as a measure of area of productive land. The spread of Portuguese culture took both meanings of the word to different parts of the world.\n\nThe Arabic \"al-kayl\", used in areas of the Iberian Peninsula under Arab rule, was imported to northern Portugal around the time of the Portuguese County, where it became known as \"alqueire\". The first explicit reference dates from 1111, but the alqueire was already in use in the late 11th century. Most likely, the term \"alqueire\" designated a single well-known measure in the Portuguese County. Half century later, in 1145, the municipal ordinances of Coimbra stipulated that the alqueire (of cereal) should have a weight of 6.5 arráteis, and thus a capacity for around 3.4 liters. This probably indicates that other alqueires were starting to be used in parallel with the standard.\n\nThroughout most of the first dynasty, reigns of Afonso Henriques to Afonso IV, the legal alqueire was equivalent to the Roman modius, i.e. about 8.7 liters. However, the legal alqueire was not used throughout the whole country. King Pedro I (1357) introduced a new alqueire of 9.8 liters and tried to impose it as a standard for the whole kingdom. This alqueire in fact had a wider spread than the previous one, but failed to generalize to the entire territory. With Manuel I (1499), the alqueire of Lisbon, which amounted to 13.1 liters, became the standard for the kingdom. Sebastião I (1575) distributed copies of this standard, in bronze, to the main towns of the kingdom. However, regional standards still survived. Later, probably following the 1755 earthquake, the capacity of the alqueire of Lisbon was adjusted, approaching the 13.9 liters, which would allow easier conversion to the Spanish system.\n\nThe main standards used in different regions of Portugal in the nineteenth century were as follows:\n\n\nAt the local level, a multitude of variants of these major patterns were in actual use. Despite the introduction of the metric system in the nineteenth century, traditional alqueires continued to be used.\n\nSince the Middle Ages, the term alqueire also designated units of measure of area of land. Typically, an area alqueire was the area of land that could be sown with an alqueire of seed.\n\nIn the time of the Portuguese Discoveries, the settlers of Brazil adopted both the capacity alqueire and the area alqueire. The area alqueire, with variations propagating throughout their territory, is still widely known:\n\nEven until the 20th century, in conversations with local Azorean seniors, many would refer to both meanings of alqueire: \"minha terra produziu 40 alqueires de milho por alqueire de terra\" (\"my land produced 40 alqueires of corn per alqueire of land\"). In the Azores, lands were distributed to the settlers who explored and expanded the territory; the Crown provided guarantees that who could explore and expand Portuguese patrimony would benefit from their largesse. It was in the moio and \"alqueire\" that many of the rural property-owners obtained their honorific titles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2201447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2201447", "title": "Angle of arrival", "text": "Angle of arrival\n\nAngle of arrival (AoA) measurement is a method for determining the direction of propagation of a radio-frequency wave incident on an antenna array or determined from maximum signal strength during antenna rotation. AoA determines the direction by measuring the Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA) at individual elements of the array -- from these delays the AoA can be calculated. \n\nGenerally this TDOA measurement is made by measuring the difference in received phase at each element in the antenna array. This can be thought of as beamforming in reverse. In beamforming, the signal from each element is weighed to \"steer\" the gain of the antenna array. In AoA, the delay of arrival at each element is measured directly and converted to an AoA measurement.\n\nConsider, for example, a two element array spaced apart by one-half the wavelength of an incoming RF wave. If a wave is incident upon the array at boresight, it will arrive at each antenna simultaneously. This will yield 0° phase-difference measured between the two antenna elements, equivalent to a 0° AoA. If a wave is incident upon the array at broadside, then a 180° phase difference will be measured between the elements, corresponding to a 90° AoA.\n\nA current application of AoA is in the geodesic location or geolocation of cell phones. The aim is either to comply with regulations that require cell systems to report the location of a cell phone placing an emergency (i.e., 911) call or to provide a special service to tell the bearer of the cell phone where he is. Multiple receivers on a base station would calculate the AoA of the cell phone's signal, and this information would be combined to determine the phone's location on the earth. \n\nAoA is generally used to discover the location of pirate radio stations or of any military radio transmitter.\n\nIn submarine acoustics, AoA is the method to localize objects with active or passive ranging.\n\nIn optics, AoA is considered from the perspective of interferometry.\n\n"}
{"id": "684142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=684142", "title": "Anglo-Celtic", "text": "Anglo-Celtic\n\nAnglo-Celtic citizens are those of British or English and Celtic descent. The concept is mainly relevant outside of Great Britain and Ireland, particularly in Australia but also in Canada, the United States, New Zealand and South Africa, where a significant diaspora is located.\n\nThe term is a combination of the combining form \"Anglo-\" and the adjective \"Celtic\". \"Anglo-\", meaning \"English\" is derived from the Angles, a Germanic people who settled in Britain (mainly in what is now England) in the middle of the first millennium. The name \"England\" ( or ) originates from these people. \"Celtic\", in this context, refers to the people of Ireland, Scotland, Wales, the Isle of Man and Cornwall.\n\nRecorded usage dates as far back to at least the mid-19th century. A newspaper of the name, \"The Anglo-Celt\" (pronounced in this case as 'Anglo-Selt'), was founded in County Cavan in Ireland in 1846. In an 1869 publication, the term was contrasted with Anglo-Saxon as a more appropriate term for people of Irish and British descent worldwide:\n\n\"Anglo-Saxon,\" as applied to the modern British people, and Britannic race, I believe every impartial scholar will agree with me in thinking a gross misnomer. For if it can be shown that there is a large Celtic element even in the population of England itself, still more unquestionable is this, not only with regard to the populations the British Isles generally, but also with reference to the English-speaking peoples of America and Australasia. Even the English are rather Anglo-Celts than Anglo Saxons; and still more certainly is Anglo-Celtic a more accurate term than Anglo-Saxon, not only for that British nationality which includes the Scots, the Irish and the Welsh; but also for that Britannic race, chief elements in the formation of which have been Welsh, Scottish and Irish immigrants.\n\nThe term lends itself to the term \"Anglo-Celtic Isles\", an alternative term for the \"British Isles\". Use in this term can be seen in a 1914 Irish unionist ballad:\nThe United Anglo-Celtic Isles\nWill e'er be blessed by Freedoms smiles\nNo tyrant can our homes subdue\nWhile Britons to the Celts are true.\nThe false may clamour to betray\nThe brave will still uphold our sway\nThe triple-sacred flag as yet\nSupreme, its sun shall never set\n— Southern Unionist Ballad (Ennis Unionist, 1914)\n\n"}
{"id": "53365285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53365285", "title": "Centro de Aperfeiçoamento Técnico Agro-Pecuário", "text": "Centro de Aperfeiçoamento Técnico Agro-Pecuário\n\nCentro de Aperfeiçoamento Técnico Agro-Pecuário (CATAP, Portuguese for: \"Centre for technical improvement of agriculture and animal husbandry\") is an agricultural training centre in São Tomé and Príncipe. It is located the village of Piedade, Mé-Zóchi District. It was established in 1988 by the Italian NGO Nuova Frontiera, with support from the European Union, the Republic of São Tomé and Príncipe, the World Food Programme and the Canada Fund for Local Initiatives. \n"}
{"id": "6781871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6781871", "title": "Cline (biology)", "text": "Cline (biology)\n\nIn biology, a cline (from the Greek \"“klinein”\", meaning \"“to lean”\") is a measurable gradient in a single character (or biological trait) of a species across its geographical range. First coined by Julian Huxley in 1938, the “character” of the cline referred to is usually genetic (e.g allele frequency, blood type), or phenotypic (e.g. body size, skin pigmentation). Clines can show smooth, continuous gradation in a character, or they may show more abrupt changes in the trait from one geographic region to the next.\n\nA cline refers to a spatial gradient in a specific, singular trait, rather than a gradient in a population as a whole. A single population can therefore theoretically have as many clines as it has traits. Additionally, Huxley recognised that these multiple independent clines may not act in concordance with each other. For example, it has been observed that in Australia, birds generally become smaller the further towards the north of the country they are found. In contrast, the intensity of their plumage colouration follows a different geographical trajectory, being most vibrant where humidity is highest and becoming less vibrant further into the arid centre of the country. \nBecause of this, clines were defined by Huxley as being an “auxiliary taxonomic principle”; that is, clinal variation in a species is not awarded taxonomic recognition in the way subspecies or species are.\n\nWhile the terms “ecotype” and “cline” are sometimes used interchangeably, they do in fact differ in that “ecotype” refers to a population which differs from other populations in a number of characters, rather than the single character that varies amongst populations in a cline.\n\nClines are often cited to be the result of two opposing drivers: selection and gene flow (also known as migration). Selection causes adaptation to the local environment, resulting in different genotypes or phenotypes being favoured in different environments. This diversifying force is countered by gene flow, which has a homogenising effect on populations and prevents speciation through causing genetic admixture and blurring any distinct genetic boundaries.\n\nClines are generally thought to arise under one of two conditions: “primary differentiation” (also known as \"primary contact\" or \"primary intergradation\" ), or “secondary contact” (also known as \"secondary introgression\", or \"secondary intergradation\").\n\nClines produced through this way are generated by spatial heterogeneity in environmental conditions. The mechanism of selection acting upon organisms is therefore external. Species ranges frequently span environmental gradients (e.g. humidity, rainfall, temperature, or day length) and, according to natural selection, different environments will favour different genotypes or phenotypes. In this way, when previously genetically or phenotypically uniform populations spread into novel environments, they will evolve to be uniquely adapted to the local environment, in the process potentially creating a gradient in a genotypic or phenotypic trait.\n\nSuch clines in characters can not be maintained through selection alone if lots of gene flow occurred between populations, as this would tend to swamp out the effects of local adaptation. However, because species usually tend to have a limited dispersal range (e.g. in an isolation by distance model), restricted gene flow can serve as a type of barrier which encourages geographic differentiation. However, some degree of migration is often required to maintain a cline; without it, speciation is likely to eventually occur, as local adaptation can cause reproductive isolation between populations.\n\nA classic example of the role of environmental gradients in creating clines is that of the peppered moth, \"Biston betularia\", in the UK. During the 19th century, when the industrial sector gained traction, coal emissions blackened vegetation across northwest England and parts of northern Wales. As a result of this, lighter morphs of the moth were more visible to predators against the blackened tree trunks and were therefore more heavily predated relative to the darker morphs. Consequently, the frequency of the more cryptic melanic morph of the peppered moth increased drastically in northern England. This cline in morph colour, from a dominance of lighter morphs in the west of England (which did not suffer as heavily from pollution), to the higher frequency of melanic forms in the north, has slowly been degrading since limitations to sooty emissions were introduced in the 1960s.\n\nClines generated through this mechanism have arisen through the joining of two formerly isolated populations which differentiated in allopatry, creating an intermediate zone. This secondary contact scenario may occur, for example, when climatic conditions change, allowing the ranges of populations to expand and meet. Because over time the effect of gene flow will tend to eventually swamp out any regional differences and cause one large homogenous population, for a stable cline to be maintained when two populations join there must usually be a selective pressure maintaining a degree of differentiation between the two populations.\n\nThe mechanism of selection maintaining the clines in this scenario is often intrinsic. This means that the fitness of individuals is independent of the external environment, and selection is instead dependent on the genome of the individual. Intrinsic, or endogenous, selection can give rise to clines in characters though a variety of mechanisms. One way it may act is through heterozygote disadvantage, in which intermediate genotypes have a lower relative fitness than either homozygote genotypes. Because of this disadvantage, one allele will tend to become fixed in a given population, such that populations will consist largely of either \"AA\" (homozygous dominant) or \"aa\" (homozygous recessive) individuals. The cline of heterozygotes that is created when these respective populations come into contact is then shaped by the opposing forces of selection and gene flow; even if selection against heterozygotes is great, if there is some degree of gene flow between the two populations, then a steep cline may be able to be maintained.\nBecause instrinsic selection is independent of the external environment, clines generated by selection against hybrids are not fixed to any given geographical area and can move around the geographic landscape. Such hybrid zones where hybrids are a disadvantage relative to their parental lines (but which are nonetheless maintained through selection being counteracted by gene flow) are known as “tension zones”.\n\nAnother way in which selection can generate clines is through frequency-dependent selection. Characters that could be maintained by such frequency-dependent selective pressures include warning signals (aposematism). For example, aposematic signals in \"Heliconius\" butterflies sometimes display steep clines between populations, which are maintained through positive frequency dependence. This is because heterozygosity, mutations and recombination can all produce patterns that deviate from those well-established signals which mark prey as being unpalatable. These individuals are then predated more heavily relative to their counterparts with \"normal\" markings (i.e. selected against), creating populations dominated by a particular pattern of warning signal. As with heterozygote disadvantage, when these populations join, a narrow cline of intermediate individuals could be produced, maintained by gene flow counteracting selection.\n\nSecondary contact could lead to a cline with a steep gradient if heterozygote disadvantage or frequency-dependent selection exists, as intermediates are heavily selected against. Alternatively, steep clines could exist because the populations have only recently established secondary contact, and the character in the original allopatric populations had a large degree of differentiation. As genetic admixture between the population increases with time however, the steepness of the cline is likely to decrease as the difference in character is eroded. However, if the character in the original allopatric populations was not very differentiated to begin with, the cline between the populations need not display a very steep gradient. Because both primary differentiation and secondary contact can therefore give rise to similar or identical clinal patterns (e.g. gently sloping clines), distinguishing which of these two processes is responsible for generating a cline is difficult and often impossible. However, in some circumstances a cline and a geographic variable (such as humidity) may be very tightly linked, with a change in one corresponding closely to a change in the other. In such cases it may be tentatively concluded that the cline is generated by primary differentiation and therefore moulded by environmental selective pressures.\n\nWhile selection can therefore clearly play a key role in creating clines, it is theoretically feasible that they might be generated by genetic drift alone. It is unlikely that large-scale clines in genotype or phenotype frequency will be produced solely by drift. However, across smaller geographical scales and in smaller populations, drift could produce temporary clines. The fact that drift is a weak force upholding the cline however means that clines produced this way are often random (i.e uncorrelated with environmental variables) and subject to breakdown or reversal over time. Such clines are therefore unstable and sometimes called “transient clines”.\n\nThe steepness, or gradient, of a cline reflects the extent of the differentiation in the character across a geographic range. For example, a steep cline could indicate large variation in the colour of plumage between adjacent bird populations. It has been previously outlined that such steep clines may be the result of two previously allopatric populations with a large degree of difference in the trait having only recently established gene flow, or where there is strong selection against hybrids. However, it may also reflect a sudden environmental change or boundary. Examples of rapidly changing environmental boundaries like this include abrupt changes in the heavy metal content of soils, and the consequent narrow clines produced between populations of \"Agrostis\" that are either adapted to these soils with high metal content, or adapted to \"normal\" soil.\nConversely, a shallow cline indicates little geographical variation in the character or trait across a given geographical distance. This may have arisen through weak differential environmental selective pressure, or where two populations established secondary contact a long time ago and gene flow has eroded the large character differentiation between the populations.\n\nThe gradient of a cline is related to another commonly referred to property, clinal width. A cline with a steep slope is said to have a small, or narrow, width, while shallower clines have larger widths.\n\nAccording to Huxley, clines can be classified into two categories; continuous clines and discontinuous stepped clines. These types of clines characterise the way that a genetic or phenotypic trait transforms from one end of its geographical range of the species to the other. \n\nIn continuous clines, all populations of the species are able to interbreed and there is gene flow throughout the entire range of the species. In this way, these clines are both biologically (no clear subgroups) and geographically (contiguous distribution) continuous. \nContinuous clines can be further sub-divided into smooth and stepped clines. \n\nUnlike in continuous clines, in discontinuous clines the populations of species are allopatric, meaning there is very little or no gene flow amongst populations. The genetic or phenotypic trait in question always shows a steeper gradient between groups than within groups, as in continuous clines. Discontinuous clines follow the same principles as continuous clines by displaying either\n\nIt was originally assumed that geographic isolation was a necessary precursor to speciation (allopatric speciation). The possibility that clines may be a precursor to speciation was therefore ignored, as they were assumed to be evidence of the fact that in contiguous populations gene flow was too strong a force of homogenisation, and selection too weak a force of differentiation, for speciation to take place. However, the existence of particular types of clines, such as ring species, in which populations did not differentiate in allopatry but the terminal ends of the cline nonetheless do not interbreed, cast into doubt whether complete geographical isolation of populations is an absolute requirement for speciation.\n\nBecause clines can exist in populations connected by some degree of gene flow, the generation of new species from a previously clinal population is termed parapatric speciation. Both extrinsic and intrinsic selection can serve to generate varying degrees of reproductive isolation and thereby instigate the process of speciation. For example, through environmental selection acting on populations and favouring particular allele frequencies, large genetic differences between populations may accumulate (this would be reflected in clinal structure by the presence of numerous very steep clines). If the local genetic differences are great enough, it may lead unfavourable combinations of genotypes and therefore to hybrids being at a decreased fitness relative to the parental lines. When this hybrid disadvantage is great enough, natural selection will select for pre-zygotic traits in the homozygous parental lines that reduce the likelihood of disadvantageous hybridisation - in other words, natural selection will favour traits that promote assortative mating in the parental lines. This is known as reinforcement and plays an important role in parapatric and sympatric speciation.\n\nClines can be portrayed graphically on maps using lines that show the transition in character state from one end of the geographic range to the other. Character states can however additionally be represented using isophenes, defined by Ernst Mayr as “lines of equal expression of a clinally varying character”. In other words, areas on maps that demonstrate the same biological phenomenon or character will be connected by something that resembles a contour line. When mapping clines therefore, which follow a character gradation from one extreme to the other, isophenes will transect clinal lines at a right angle.\n\nAlthough the term “cline” was first officially coined by Huxley in 1938, gradients and geographic variations in the character states of species have been observed for centuries. Indeed, some gradations have been considered so ubiquitous that they have been labelled ecological “rules”. One commonly cited example of a gradient in morphology is Gloger's Rule, named after Constantin Gloger, who observed in 1833 that environmental factors and the pigmentation of avian plumage tend to covary with each other, such that birds found in arid areas near the Equator tend to be much darker than those in less arid areas closer to the Poles. Since then, this rule has been extended to include many other animals, including flies, butterflies, and wolves.\n\nOther ecogeographical rules include Bergmann's Rule, coined by Carl Bergmann in 1857, which states that homeotherms closer to the Equator tend to be smaller than their more northerly or southerly conspecifics. One of the proposed reasons for this cline is that larger animals have a relatively smaller surface area to volume ratio and therefore improved heat conservancy – an important advantage in cold climates. The role of the environment in imposing a selective pressure and producing this cline has been heavily implicated due to the fact that Bergmann’s Rule has been observed across many independent lineages of species and continents. For example, the house sparrow, which was introduced in the early 1850s to the eastern United States, evolved a north-south gradient in size soon after its introduction. This gradient reflects the gradient that already existed in the house sparrow’s native range in Europe. \n\nRing species are a distinct type of cline where the geographical distribution in question is circular in shape, so that the two ends of the cline overlap with one another, giving two adjacent populations that rarely interbreed due to the cumulative effect of the many changes in phenotype along the cline. The populations elsewhere along the cline interbreed with their geographically adjacent populations as in a standard cline. In the case of \"Larus\" gulls, the habitats of the end populations even overlap, which introduces questions as to what constitutes a species: nowhere along the cline can a line be drawn between the populations, but they are unable to interbreed.\n\nIn humans, clines in the frequency of blood types has allowed scientists to infer past population migrations. For example, the Type B blood group reaches its highest frequency in Asia, but become less frequent further west. From this, it has been possible to infer that some Asian populations migrated towards Europe around 2,000 years ago, causing genetic admixture in an isolation by distance model. In contrast to this cline, blood Type A shows the reverse pattern, reaching its highest frequency in Europe and declining in frequency towards Asia.\n"}
{"id": "30684349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30684349", "title": "Compact state", "text": "Compact state\n\nA compact state in the political geography context is a state (country) in which the distance from the center to any boundary does not vary significantly.\n\nCompact states are one of six different shapes for states and are never perfect circles. The benefits of these states are that, controlling for everything else, they are easiest to defend as they have the smallest possible perimeter and they are effective with communication and transportation. Modern examples of compact states include: Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Cambodia, Botswana, Poland, Montenegro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9033099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9033099", "title": "Danube Promenade", "text": "Danube Promenade\n\nThe Danube Promenade () is located on the Pest side of Budapest, Hungary. On the bank of the Danube, this promenade extends from the Széchenyi Chain Bridge to the Erzsébet Bridge.\nA row of hotels on the bank of the Danube began to be built in 1867: these were the Hungaria (1867 A. Skalinczky), Bristol, Carlton, and Ritz (Danube Palace). In 1945 at the end of World War II, only the Bristol (Danube Hotel) survived the destruction of the row of hotels on the bank of the Danube. In 1969 the final form of the Bristol Hotel was demolished.\n\nBuildings and landmarks in the promenade include:\n\n\nIn the midst of boxes of glass hotels is the eccentric Neo-Byzantine Vigadó Concert Hall, which survived the building boom of the late 1960s. Behind the Vigadó is the local hub of the city, Vörösmarty tér, named after the 19th-century poet Mihály Vörösmarty. The traditional Gerbeaud coffeehouse has long been a great people watching spot. Váci utca and environs is the area for chic clothing, used books, folk art and sidewalk cafés. Further along the promenade is Március 15 tér, where the remains of a Roman bastion, Contra-Aquincum, were discovered, The Inner City Parish Church’s simple exterior conceals a colorful past: it began as a Romanesque basilica, was used as a mosque and was finally reconceived in the Baroque style in the 18th century.\n\n\nFrom left to right: Tabán Church; Buda Castle with the Royal Palace at night; Matthias Church; Széchenyi Chain Bridge\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6802524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6802524", "title": "Digital orthophoto quadrangle", "text": "Digital orthophoto quadrangle\n\nA digital orthophoto quadrangle (DOQ) is aerial photography or satellite imagery that has been corrected so that its pixels are aligned with longitude and latitude lines, and have a narrowly defined region of coverage. This is a widely used format introduced by United States Geological Survey (USGS). The correction technique is called image rectification and is a large part of photogrammetry.\n\nDOQs produced by the USGS cover an area measuring 7.5-minutes longitude by 7.5-minutes latitude (the same area covered by a USGS 1:24,000-scale topographic map, also known as a 7.5-minute quadrangle) or 3.75-minutes by 3.75-minutes. The second format is also known as a digital orthophoto quarter quadrangle (DOQQ) because each covers one quarter of a quadrangle (four 1:12,000-scale DOQQs display the same area as one 1:24,000-scale DOQ).\n\n"}
{"id": "1521089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1521089", "title": "Ferdinand von Richthofen", "text": "Ferdinand von Richthofen\n\nBaron Ferdinand Freiherr von Richthofen FRSFor HFRSE BGS (5 May 18336 October 1905), better known in English as was a German traveller, geographer, and scientist. He is noted for coining the terms \"Seidenstraße\" and \"Seidenstraßen\" = \"Silk Road(s)\" or \"Silk Route(s)\" in 1877. He also standardized the practices of chorography and chorology. He was an uncle of the World War I flying ace Manfred von Richthofen, best known as the \"Red Baron\".\n\nHe was born in Carlsruhe, at that time in Prussian Silesia, and was educated in the Roman Catholic Gymnasium in Breslau.\n\nHe studied Medicine at the University of Breslau and at the Humboldt University of Berlin. He traveled or studied in the Alps of Tyrol and the Carpathians in Transylvania. In 1860, he joined the Eulenburg Expedition, a Prussian expedition which visited Ceylon, Japan, Taiwan, Celebes, Java, the Philippines, Siam, Burma between 1860 and 1862. No important work resulted from these travels, for much of Richthofen's records and collections was lost. China was at the time inaccessible owing to the Taiping rebellion, but Richthofen was impressed with the desirability of exploring it. From 1862 to 1868, he worked as a geologist in the United States, discovering goldfields in California. He then followed up his interest in China by several more trips there, and also to Japan, Burma, and Java. In China he located the dried-up lake bed of Lopnur.\n\nHe published his geographical, geological, economic, and ethnological findings in three volumes with an atlas, which, however, did not cover the entire field or complete the author's plan. This work appeared at Berlin in 1877-85 under the title of \"China; Ergebnisse eigner Reisen und darauf gegründeter Studien\". In this standard work, the author deals not only with geology but with every subject necessary to a general geographical treatise. Notably he paid close attention to the economic resources of the country he traversed. He also wrote a valuable series of letters to the Shanghai Chamber of Commerce, and first drew attention to the importance of the coalfields of Shantung, and of Kiaochow as a port.\n\nHe was appointed professor of geology at the University of Bonn beginning in 1875, but being fully occupied with his work in China he did not take up professorial duties until 1879. He became professor of geography at the University of Leipzig in 1883, and professor of geography at the Friedrich Wilhelm University of Berlin in 1886. He occupied the latter position until his death. His lectures attracted numerous students who subsequently became eminent in geographical work, and in order to keep in touch with them he established his weekly geographical “colloquium.” Among his most famous students was Sven Hedin, the Swedish explorer. He served as president of the German Geographical Society for many years and founded the Berlin Hydrographical Institute.\n\nHe is noted for coining the terms \"Seidenstraße\" and \"Seidenstraßen\" = \"Silk Road(s)\" or \"Silk Route(s)\" in 1877. He also standardized the practices of chorography and chorology.\n\nHe died in 1905 in Berlin.\n\nWhen William Gill consulted him about a planned trip to China, he remarked:\nThe mountain range on the southern edge of the Hexi Corridor in western China was named Richthofen Range after him, although the modern name is now Qilian Mountains. The 12940 ft. Mount Richthofen in Rocky Mountain National Park is also named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "512544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512544", "title": "Frisian Islands", "text": "Frisian Islands\n\nThe Frisian Islands, also known as the Wadden Islands or the Wadden Sea Islands, form an archipelago at the eastern edge of the North Sea in northwestern Europe, stretching from the northwest of the Netherlands through Germany to the west of Denmark. The islands shield the mudflat region of the Wadden Sea (large parts of which fall dry during low tide) from the North Sea.\n\nThe Frisian Islands, along with the mainland coast in the German Bight, form the region of Frisia (German and Dutch: \"Friesland\"), homeland of the Frisian people. Generally, the term Frisian Islands is used for the islands where Frisian is spoken and the population is ethnically Frisian. In contrast, the term Wadden Islands applies to the entire archipelago, including the Dutch-speaking westernmost islands of Texel and Vlieland and Danish-speaking Danish Wadden Sea Islands further north off the west coast of Jutland.\n\nMost of the Frisian Islands are environmentally protected areas, and an international wildlife nature reserve is being coordinated between the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark. Natural gas and oil drilling continue, however, and in the vicinity of the Ems, Weser and Elbe estuaries, and ship traffic causes tension between wildlife protection and economic values.\n\nDuring the last ice age, which ended approximately 12,000 years ago, sea level was about lower than it is now, and part of what is now the North Sea was dry land. With the melting of the ice caps, the sea level rose, reaching the current coast line around the beginning of the Holocene era, approximately 7,000 years ago. Tidal action transported large quantities of sand to form a line of dunes extending over from the Netherlands to the mouth of the river Elbe in Germany. The sea broke through the dunes in many places to form the Wadden Islands, with the low-lying country behind becoming the tidal Wadden mudflats.\n\nThe Dutch West Frisian and the German East Frisian Islands are barrier islands. They arose along the breakers' edge where the water surge piled up sediment, and behind which sediment was carried away by the breaking waves. Over time, shoals arose, which ultimately were only covered by infrequent storm floods. Once plants began to colonize the sandbanks, the land began to stabilize.\n\nIn contrast, the North Frisian Islands arose from the remains of old Geestland islands, where the land was partially removed by storm floods and water action and then separated from the mainland. They are, therefore, often higher and their cores are less exposed to changes than the islands to the south. Beyond the core, however, the same processes are at work, as is particularly evident on Sylt, where the south of the island threatens to be broken away and the harbour at List in the north silts up.\nThe Danish Islands, the next in the chain to the north, arose from sandbanks. Into the 20th century, silt on the islands was a serious problem. To protect them, small woods were planted.\n\nLong before the beginning of the modern era, there were already humans inhabiting the Wadden area. Up to 800 AD, most inhabitants lived on terpen (artificial mounds). Living conditions were difficult. The Roman naturalist Pliny, writing in the first century AD, described the Frisians as ...\n... people who live without trees or shrubs. ... in the east, to the coasts of the ocean, a number of races in such needy conditions exist; but this also applies to the races of peoples which are called the large and small Chaucen, which we have seen in the north. There, two times in each period of a day and a night, the ocean with a fast tide submerges an immense plain, thereby the hiding ... whether the area is sea or land. There this miserable race inhabits raised pieces ground or platforms, which they have moored by hand above the level of the highest known tide. Living in huts built on the chosen spots, they seem like sailors in ships if water covers the surrounding country, but like shipwrecked people when the tide has withdrawn itself, and around their huts they catch fish which try to escape with the expiring tide. It is for them not possible to keep herds and live on milk such as the surrounding tribes. They cannot even fight with wild animals, because all the bush country lies too far away. They braid ropes of sedges and rushes from the marshes with which they make nets to be able to catch fish, and they dig up mud with their hands and dry it more in wind than in the sun, and with soil as fuel they heat their food and their own bodies, frozen in northern wind. Their only drink comes from storing rain water in tanks front of their houses. And these are the races which, if they were now conquered by the Roman nation, say that they will fall into slavery! It is only too true: Destiny saves people as a punishment.\nAround 1000, dike construction began. Monks were instrumental in this activity, among others those of the monastery of Aduard. But earlier attempts had been undertaken to dam the sea. At the Frisian Peins (near Franeker), a 40-meter section of dike has been discovered that is thought to date from the 1st or 2nd century BC.\n\nIn the late Middle Ages, the dike system was gradually strengthened and flooding diminished. Beginning in the 17th century, dikes were built further out to reclaim more land. This activity peaked in the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\nThe dunes south of the Wadden Sea were also liable to this process, but human intervention prevented the many storm surges from changing the coast of the provinces North Holland and South Holland into separate islands with Wadden mudflats behind them. However, around 1200, storm surges did break up the northern coast of Western Friesland into five islands. Around 1600, four of these along the West coast had been again recovered, but Wieringen, to the south-east of Texel, remained an island up to the 20th century.\n\nIn Friesland and Groningen plans were made to embank and drain the Wadden Sea. As a result, the islands would have become part of the mainland. As of today, nature and environmental movements have been able to prevent this.\n\nThe only plan ever to be carried out was the construction of a causeway from the Frisian Holwerd to Ameland, in 1872, which was not very successful. Shortly after construction, the causeway had already suffered so much storm damage that the dam was abandoned in 1882. The dam has been almost entirely eroded since then.\n\nIn the northern Wadden Sea building dams proved to be considerably simpler. Nordstrand is now so much linked to the rampart by dikes that it is difficult to define it as an island, and also Langeness, Oland, Nordstrandischmoor, Hamburger Hallig, Sylt, and Rømø are all reachable by dams. Mandø is even reachable without a dam by means of tidal road.\n\nThe Wadden Islands are in continuous apparent movement. The most important movement is the 'migration': the islands themselves are slowly but certainly moving from West to East. On the West side most of the islands disappear slowly into the sea and on the East side even larger sand-banks arise. This movement is also the reason that most of the villages themselves are on the West side of their island. When they were founded they were situated in the center. Over the course of the last few centuries, many houses and even entire villages disappeared into the sea.\n\nThe second movement is the development of a hook shape. Along the sea breaches hook-shaped sand ridges arise, which change form with the moving of the sea arm. By growth of these hooks new shoals arise such as the Noorder and Zuiderhaaks. Sometimes such a shoal grows, originating where an island has been 'walking', and the island regains area.\n\n\nThe Dutch islands have a surface of 405.2 km² and a total of 23,872 inhabitants.\n\n\nThe names of all these places suggest this is the transition area between island and shoal (\"plaat\" in Dutch). Noorderhaaks, Rottumerplaat and Rottumeroog are generally considered to be islands, the others are considered to be sandbars and disappear from time to time into the waves. The former island of Wieringen can be found at the top of Noord-Holland, against the Afsluitdijk.\n\n\n\nThe German islands have a surface of 448.52 km² (173 sq. mi.) and 53,296 inhabitants. It is possible to make a boat excursion from several German Wadden Islands to the small rock island of Helgoland which is situated off the German coast. Although Heligoland (German: Helgoland) is not a Wadden Island, there are strong cultural links with the Wadden area; for example a dialect of North Frisian is spoken there.\n\nNot all these islands are officially considered to be Wadden Islands. For the definition of an island, a minimum of 160 hectares (0.6 sq. mi.) must no longer be submerged during average high water by the North Sea.\n\n\nIn the 20th century, south of the Danish island Rømø lay the small island Jordsand, which sank in 1999. North of the Danish island Fanø the sand coast has been opened and closed numerous times in the course of history, but at the moment the coast line is closed, and forms a whole again except for two west coast fjords. The Danish islands have a total surface of 193.8 km² (74.5 sq. mi.) and 4,173 inhabitants.\n\n"}
{"id": "12029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12029", "title": "Geography of Gabon", "text": "Geography of Gabon\n\nGabon is a country in West Africa, lying along the Atlantic Ocean, just south of the Bight of Biafra.\n\nGabon has a total of 3,261 km of international boundaries. It borders Equatorial Guinea (335 km) and Cameroon (349 km) to the north and the Republic of the Congo (2,567 km) to the east and south. Gabon lies on the equator.\n\nGabon has the moist, hot climate typical of tropical regions. The hottest month is January, with an average high at Libreville of 31 °C and an average low of 23 °C. Average July temperatures in the capital range between 20 and 28 °C. From June to September there is virtually no rain but high humidity; there is occasional rain in December and January. During the remaining months, rainfall is heavy. The excessive rainfall is caused by the condensation of moist air resulting from the meeting, directly off the coast, of the cold Benguela Current from the south and the warm Guinea Current from the north. At Libreville, the average annual rainfall is more than 2540 mm. Farther north on the coast, it is 3810 mm.\n\nNarrow coastal plain with patches of Central African mangroves; hilly interior; savanna in east and south.\n\nInternational agreements:\n\nParty to: Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling\n\nSigned, but not ratified: None of the selected agreements\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58929759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58929759", "title": "Geology of Abkhazia", "text": "Geology of Abkhazia\n\nThe geology of Abkhazia includes Neogene molasse deposits which are common along the coast. Paleogene greywacke and siltstone rocks run in a belt inshore into Georgia, while much of the northern and central areas of the country are underlain by Cretaceous and Jurassic rocks. The entire country is underlain by the suture left by the closing the Paleotethys Ocean. The region has asymmetric, isoclinal folding. \n"}
{"id": "42933069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42933069", "title": "Head/tail Breaks", "text": "Head/tail Breaks\n\nHead/tail breaks is a clustering algorithm scheme for data with a heavy-tailed distribution such as power laws and lognormal distributions. The heavy-tailed distribution can be simply referred to the scaling pattern of far more small things than large ones, or alternatively numerous smallest, a very few largest, and some in between the smallest and largest. The classification is done through dividing things into large (or called the head) and small (or called the tail) things around the arithmetic mean or average, and then recursively going on for the division process for the large things or the head until the notion of far more small things than large ones is no longer valid, or with more or less similar things left only. Head/tail breaks is not just for classification, but also for visualization of big data by keeping the head, since the head is self-similar to the whole. Head/tail breaks can be applied not only to vector data such as points, lines and polygons, but also to raster data like digital elevation model (DEM).\n\nThe head/tail breaks is mainly motivated by inability of conventional classification methods such as equal intervals, quantiles, geometric progressions, standard deviation, and natural breaks - commonly known as Jenks natural breaks optimization or k-means clustering for revealing the underlying scaling pattern of far more small things than large ones. Note that the notion of far more small things than large one is not only referred to geometric property, but also to topological and semantic properties. In this connection, the notion should be interpreted as far more unpopular (or less-connected) things than popular (or well-connected) ones, or far more meaningless things than meaningful ones.\n\nGiven some variable X that demonstrates a heavy-tailed distribution, there are far more small x than large ones. Take the average of all xi, and obtain the first mean m1. Then calculate the second mean for those xi greater than m1, and obtain m2. In the same recursive way, we can get m3 depending on whether the ending condition of no longer far more small x than large ones is met. For simplicity, we assume there are three means, m1, m2, and m3. This classification leads to four classes: [minimum, m1], (m1, m2], (m2, m3], (m3, maximum]. In general, it can be represented as a recursive function as follows:\n\nThe resulting number of classes is referred to as ht-index, an alternative index to fractal dimension for characterizing complexity of fractals or geographic features: the higher the ht-index, the more complex the fractals.\n\nThe criterion to stop the iterative classification process using the head/tail breaks method is that the remaining data (i.e., the head part) are not heavy-tailed, or simply, the head part is no longer a minority (i.e., the proportion of the head part is no longer less than a threshold such as 40%). This threshold is suggested to be 40% by Jiang et al. (2013), just as the codes above (i.e., head ≤ 40%). But sometimes a larger threshold, for example 50% or more, can be used, as Jiang and Yin (2014) noted in another article: \"this condition can be relaxed for many geographic features, such as 50 percent or even more\". However, all heads' percentage on average must be smaller than 40% (or 41, 42%), indicating far more small things than large ones. This sensitivity issue deserves further research in the future.\n\nA good tool to display the scaling pattern, or the heavy-tailed distribution, is the rank-size plot, which is a scatter plot to display a set of values according to their ranks. With this tool, a new index termed as the ratio of areas (RA) in a rank-size plot was defined to characterize the scaling pattern. The RA index has been successfully used in the estimation of traffic conditions. However, it should be noted that the RA index can only be used as a complementary method to the ht-index, because it is ineffective to capture the scaling structure of geographic features.\n\nIn addition to the ht-index, the following indices are also derived with the head/tail breaks.\n\nInstead of more or less similar things, there are far more small things than large ones surrounding us. Given the ubiquity of the scaling pattern, head/tail breaks is found to be of use to statistical mapping, map generalization, cognitive mapping and even perception of beauty\n. It helps visualize big data, since big data are likely to show the scaling property of far more small things than large ones. The visualization strategy is to recursively drop out the tail parts until the head parts are clear or visible enough. In addition, it helps delineate cities or natural cities to be more precise from various geographic information such as street networks, social media geolocation data, and nighttime images.\n\nAs the head/tail breaks method can be used iteratively to obtain head parts of a data set, this method actually captures the underlying hierarchy of the data set. For example, if we divide the array (19, 8, 7, 6, 2, 1, 1, 1, 0) with the head/tail breaks method, we can get two head parts, i.e., the first head part (19, 8, 7, 6) and the second head part (19). These two head parts as well as the original array form a three-level hierarchy:\n\nthe 1st level (19),\n\nthe 2nd level (19, 8, 7, 6), and\n\nthe 3rd level (19, 8, 7, 6, 2, 1, 1, 1, 0).\n\nThe number of levels of the above-mentioned hierarchy is actually a characterization of the imbalance of the example array, and this number of levels has been termed as the ht-index. With the ht-index, we are able to compare degrees of imbalance of two data sets. For example, the ht-index of the example array (19, 8, 7, 6, 2, 1, 1, 1, 0) is 3, and the ht-index of another array (19, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8, 8) is 2. Therefore, the degree of imbalance of the former array is higher than that of the latter array.\n\nThe term ‘natural cities’ refers to the human settlements or human activities in general on Earth’s surface that are naturally or objectively defined and delineated from massive geographic information based on head/tail division rule, a non-recursive form of head/tail breaks. Such geographic information could be from various sources, such as massive street junctions and street ends, a massive number of street blocks, nighttime imagery and social media users’ locations etc. Distinctive from conventional cities, the adjective ‘natural’ could be explained not only by the sources of natural cities, but also by the approach to derive them. Natural cities are derived from a meaningful cutoff averaged from a massive number of units extracted from geographic information. Those units vary according to different kinds of geographic information, for example the units could be area units for the street blocks and pixel values for the nighttime images. A natural cities model has been created using ArcGIS model builder, it follows the same process of deriving natural cities from location-based social media, namely, building up huge triangular irregular network (TIN) based on the point features (street nodes in this case) and regarding the triangles which are smaller than a mean value as the natural cities.\n\nCurrent color renderings for DEM or density map are essentially based on conventional classifications such as natural breaks or equal intervals, so they disproportionately exaggerate high elevations or high densities. As a matter of fact, there are not so many high elevations or high-density locations. It was found that coloring based head/tail breaks is more favorable than those by other classifications \n\nThe following implementations are available under Free/Open Source Software licenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "33599962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33599962", "title": "Ian D. Clark (historian)", "text": "Ian D. Clark (historian)\n\nIan D. Clark (born 1958) is an academic historian and Toponymist whose primary work has focused on Victorian Aboriginal history, aboriginal toponymy and the frontier conflict between Indigenous Australians and immigrant settlers during the European settlement of Victoria, Australia.\n\nStudied Bachelor of Theology at the Melbourne College of Divinity, then a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) and Diploma of Education at Monash University. He completed his PhD in western Victorian Aboriginal historical geography at Monash University in 1992.\n\nHis academic posts have included working as a tutor / lecturer in geography, lecturer in tourism at Monash University, and as a research fellow in history from 1993–1995 at the Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies. Since 2000 he has worked in the School of Business at the University of Ballarat first as a senior lecturer in Tourism and now occupies the position of Professor in Tourism.\n\nHe has worked extensively in the Victorian tourism industry with a focus on developing indigenous tourism material and facilities. For a time he was the manager of the Brambuk Aboriginal Cultural Centre in Halls Gap, Gariwerd. He has also worked as senior researcher in the Koori Tourism Unit of the former Victorian Tourism Commission from 1989–1991.\n\nIn 2005 he was chair of the Victorian State Committee of the Australian National Placenames Survey.\n\nHe has written extensively on Victorian Aboriginal history including editing the journals of George Augustus Robinson. He worked with The \"Victorian Aboriginal Corporation for Languages\" and in 2002 published the \"Dictionary of Aboriginal Placenames of Victoria\" and several related regional placename publications. He was one of the organisers of the second \"Trends in Toponymy\" conference in Ballarat in 2007, and is researching a book on Aboriginal toponymy for the ANU E-Press series.\n\nOther important published research includes work on massacre sites in Western Victoria in the 1995 publication \"Scars in the landscape : a register of massacre sites in Western Victoria 1803–1859\". The interaction between the Wurundjeri people and the early settlement of Melbourne was told in the 2004 book – \"A bend in the Yarra : a history of the Merri Creek Protectorate Station and Merri Creek Aboriginal School 1841–1851\", which Clark co-authored with Toby Heydon.\n\nClark has also written on the Aboriginal presence on the Ballarat goldfields in the 1850s noting that while there is no evidence for any direct involvement of Aboriginal people in the events of the Eureka Rebellion in 1854, aboriginal people may be relevant to the Eureka story through the event taking place on Wathaurong aboriginal land. The early policing of the Goldfield was done by the Native Police Corps, and oral history that Aboriginal people looked after some of the children of the Eureka miners after the military storming of the Eureka Stockade and subsequent massacre of miners.\n\n\nNote: this is a list of major published writings, not a full list of research or publications.\n"}
{"id": "28082706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28082706", "title": "Index of Kazakhstan-related articles", "text": "Index of Kazakhstan-related articles\n\nBelow is the list of Kazakhstan related articles. \n"}
{"id": "28941118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28941118", "title": "International rankings of Equatorial Guinea", "text": "International rankings of Equatorial Guinea\n\nThese are the international rankings of Equatorial Guinea.\n"}
{"id": "6351769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6351769", "title": "Johann Karl Ehrenfried Kegel", "text": "Johann Karl Ehrenfried Kegel\n\nJohann Karl Ehrenfried Kegel (October 3, 1784 in Rammelburg - June 25, 1863) was a German agronomist and explorer of the Kamchatka Peninsula. He died in Odessa in 1863. \n\nKegel was born in Rammelburg (now part of the town Mansfeld) and studied in Copenhagen. In the winter of 1826/1827 he went to Saint Petersburg. In 1841 he was sent by the Russian government to Kamchatka to investigate possibilities of agriculture and mining in that region. He traveled through Siberia, embarked in Okhotsk, only to arrive shipwrecked in Kamchatka. \n\nFrom Petropavlovsk, he undertook various voyages of several months into the heart of the country in order to examine the soil conditions and perform trial sowing. He travelled during the summer, even though traveling during this time was extremely strenuous and paths virtually impassable. His reports describe in detail flora and fauna, soil, geology as well as the life of the local population. Kegel discovered mineral resources and saw the potential wealth of the country if managed well. In addition, he made proposals for improving the living conditions of the indigenous population and criticized oppression. \n\nKegel was loathed by the corrupt local administration, who were not interested in the development of the country but rather in their own profit from fur trade. When they realized that Kegel was incorruptible, he was victimized whenever possible. Still he succeeded in accomplishing his work and returned - in poor state of health - in 1847. His reports were the most precise ones of this era, but could not be published in his lifetime, since this would have meant loss of freedom or worse.\n\n"}
{"id": "36926453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36926453", "title": "List of Lepidoptera of Nauru", "text": "List of Lepidoptera of Nauru\n\nThe Lepidoptera of Nauru consist of both the butterflies and moths recorded from Nauru, an island country in Micronesia in the Central Pacific.\n\nAccording to a recent estimate, there are a total of four butterfly species present in Nauru, none of which is endemic. The number of moth species is unknown.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9647193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9647193", "title": "List of Tasmanian representative cricketers", "text": "List of Tasmanian representative cricketers\n\nThis is a list of cricket players who have played representative cricket for Tasmania in Australia.\n\nIt includes players that have played at least one match, in senior first-class, List A cricket, or Twenty20 matches. Practice matches are not included, unless they have officially been classified as first-class, List A or T20 games. The list is in chronological order of the players' first appearances for the Tasmania first team in any form of cricket; where two or more players debuted in the same match, they are ordered by their surnames. The list is complete to the end of the 2010/11 season.\n\nThough Tasmania took part in the first recognised first-class cricket match in Australia in 1850/51, it remained on the peripheries of Australian cricket for more than a century, confined to \"friendly\" first-class matches against other Australian states, primarily Victoria, and touring teams from the other Test-playing nations. After World War II, even the friendly matches against other Australian states became less frequent. To supplement the limited local schedule, matches were arranged in several seasons for a \"Tasmania Combined XI\", with the side consisting of some Tasmanian cricketers and others imported, usually from mainland Australia; matches played by this team do not count as first-class games for the Tasmania cricket team, and are therefore not included in this table.\n\nFrom the late 1960s, with the import of foreign players, such as John Hampshire, Jack Simmons and Alan Knott, Tasmania was admitted first into the List A competitions and then into first-class competition.\n\nThe Sheffield Shield is the premier domestic cricket competition in Australia. It was founded in 1892, but a Tasmanian representative side was not permitted to enter the competition by the Australian Cricket Board (now Cricket Australia) until the 1977/78 season. Even then the first two seasons were on a trial basis only.\n\nWhilst they initially struggled to prove competitive at first-class level, the Tasmanian Tigers won their first domestic trophy in 1978/79, capturing the domestic List A cricket Gillette Cup. This was a success repeated when they won the Ford Ranger Cup in 2004/05, and again in 2007/08. The Tigers also won their first First class cricket title in 2006/07, winning the Sheffield Shield, then known as the Pura Cup, in that year. A second success followed in 2010/11. Tasmania has also been twice runners-up in the domestic Twenty20 competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35578814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35578814", "title": "List of administrative villages of Jakarta", "text": "List of administrative villages of Jakarta\n\nThis is a list of administrative villages of Jakarta.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3674886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3674886", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: Q", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: Q\n\nQ is reserved by the ICAO for international radiocommunications and other non-geographical special uses.\n"}
{"id": "40321314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40321314", "title": "List of butterflies of Palau", "text": "List of butterflies of Palau\n\nThis is a list of butterflies of Palau.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44366746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44366746", "title": "List of companies of the European Union", "text": "List of companies of the European Union\n\nThis is a list of notable European companies. For further information on the types of business entities in this union and their abbreviations, see \"Business entities in the European Union\".\n\nThe following is a list of 30 largest European Union companies 2015, ordered by revenue in millions of US dollars.\n"}
{"id": "11369242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11369242", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of Malta", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of Malta\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions of Malta, excluding honorary consulates. Malta has a modest diplomatic presence. The Maltese Ministry of Foreign Affairs oversees the direction of the nation's foreign policy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19559635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19559635", "title": "List of people from Breslau", "text": "List of people from Breslau\n\nThis list includes people who were born in or lived in Breslau before 1945. For a list of famous residents after 1945, see List of notable people from Wrocław.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31090237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31090237", "title": "List of people from Comilla", "text": "List of people from Comilla\n\nA list of notable people from Cumilla, Bangladesh:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8593474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8593474", "title": "List of people on the postage stamps of the Cayman Islands", "text": "List of people on the postage stamps of the Cayman Islands\n\nThis is a list of people on postage stamps of the Cayman Islands. It includes the years of their appearances on a stamp, with the exception of British monarchs, who appear frequently throughout their reigns.\n\nThe list is complete through 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39568382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39568382", "title": "List of presidential trips made by Christian Wulff", "text": "List of presidential trips made by Christian Wulff\n\nThis is a list of presidential visits to foreign countries made by Christian Wulff as President of Germany. Wulff held the office from his election on 2 July 2010 until his resignation on 17 February 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "902322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=902322", "title": "List of rulers of Tuggurt", "text": "List of rulers of Tuggurt\n\nThis is a list of rulers of Tuggurt, a medieval Tuareg sultanate centered in Tuggurt (Touggourt), Touggourt District, Algeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "49987405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49987405", "title": "List of the major 3000-meter summits of North America", "text": "List of the major 3000-meter summits of North America\n\nThe following sortable table comprises the 401 mountain peaks of greater North America with at least of elevation and at least of topographic prominence.\n\nThe summit of a mountain or hill may be measured in three principal ways:\n\nIn greater North America, only Denali exceeds elevation. Three major summits exceed , 11 exceed, 21 exceed , 124 exceed, 277 exceed , and the following 401 major summits exceed elevation.\n\nOf the 401 major 3000-meter summits of greater North America, 299 are located in the United States (excluding three in Hawaii), 67 in Canada, 28 in México, and eight in Guatemala, four in Greenland, two in Costa Rica, and one each in Panamá and the Dominican Republic. Eight of these peaks lie on the Canada-United States border and one lies on the México-Guatemala border. Additional references and maps for the 200 highest of these major summits can be found on the List of the highest major summits of North America.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19599252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19599252", "title": "Lithgow (surname)", "text": "Lithgow (surname)\n\nLithgow is a surname originating from Scottish as a habitational name from Linlithgow, between Edinburgh and Falkirk, which was probably named with British words related to modern Welsh \"llyn\" ‘lake’, ‘pool’ + \"llaith\" ‘damp’ + \"cau\" ‘hollow’.In the 13th and 14th centuries the name appears both with and without the first syllable. Originally, Lithgow was the name of the settlement and Linlithgow that of the lake. Lithgow was associated by folk etymology with Gaelic \"liath\" ‘gray’ + \"cu\" ‘dog’, and such a figure appears on the medieval borough seal. The surname, is well represented in the Dominican Republic, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, and the UK.\n\nIt may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "32256722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32256722", "title": "Maiden Paps (Caithness)", "text": "Maiden Paps (Caithness)\n\nThe Maiden Paps are twin hills located in Caithness, Scotland that have the shape of human breasts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25702410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25702410", "title": "Maryland lidar availability", "text": "Maryland lidar availability\n\nMaryland is among the states in the US that is acquiring lidar data, complementing the National Lidar Dataset effort to acquire high resolution elevation data across the nation. The Maryland Department of Natural Resources coordinates with most counties in the state regarding acquisition specifications, post-processing quality control, and in some cases, distribution. However, in general each county initiates the lidar acquisition.\n\nIn the Spring of 2014, the Maryland Department of Information Technology announced the addition of several new LiDAR features to MD iMap, Maryland’s Mapping & GIS Data Portal. The Maryland Topography Server and Topography Viewer, hosted by the Eastern Shore Regional GIS Cooperative at Salisbury University have been created to provide open access to statewide elevation information for use in a variety of studies and applications. The Maryland Topography Server maintains the best available elevation data and provides image services in both county and statewide extents. The Maryland Topography Viewer is a web application that allows users to view and interact with the elevation services hosted on the Topography Server. Users can view, query and more on desktop and mobile devices. MD iMap provides access to the Topography Server and Viewer as well as status maps, FAQs, metadata, and more.\nMaryland county lidar sources include:\n\n"}
{"id": "5631171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5631171", "title": "N-vector", "text": "N-vector\n\nThe \"n\"-vector representation is a three-parameter non-singular representation well-suited for replacing latitude and longitude as horizontal position representation in mathematical calculations and computer algorithms.\n\nGeometrically, the \"n\"-vector for a given position on an ellipsoid is the outward-pointing unit vector that is normal in that position to the ellipsoid. For representing horizontal positions on Earth, the ellipsoid is a reference ellipsoid and the vector is decomposed in an Earth-centered Earth-fixed coordinate system. It behaves smoothly at all Earth positions, and it holds the mathematical one-to-one property.\n\nMore in general, the concept can be applied to representing positions on the boundary of a strictly convex bounded subset of \"k\"-dimensional Euclidean space, provided that that boundary is a differentiable manifold. In this general case, the \"n\"-vector consists of \"k\" parameters.\n\nA normal vector to a strictly convex surface can be used to uniquely define a surface position. \"n\"-vector is an outward-pointing normal vector with unit length used as a position representation. \nFor most applications the surface is the reference ellipsoid of the Earth, and thus \"n\"-vector is used to represent a horizontal position. Hence, the angle between \"n\"-vector and the equatorial plane corresponds to geodetic latitude, as shown in the figure.\n\nA surface position has two degrees of freedom, and thus two parameters are sufficient to represent any position on the surface. On the reference ellipsoid, latitude and longitude are common parameters for this purpose, but as all \"two-parameter representations\", they have singularities. This is similar to orientation, which has three degrees of freedom, but all \"three-parameter representations\" have singularities. In both cases the singularities are avoided by adding an extra parameter, i.e. to use \"n\"-vector (three parameters) to represent horizontal position and a unit quaternion (four parameters) to represent orientation.\n\n\"n\"-vector is a one-to-one representation, meaning that any surface position corresponds to one unique \"n\"-vector, and any \"n\"-vector corresponds to one unique surface position. \n\nAs a Euclidean 3D vector, standard 3D vector algebra can be used for the position calculations, and this makes \"n\"-vector well-suited for most horizontal position calculations.\n\nBased on the definition of the ECEF coordinate system, it is clear that going from latitude/longitude to \"n\"-vector, is achieved by:\n\nThe superscript \"e\" means that \"n\"-vector is decomposed in the coordinate system \"e\" (i.e. the first component is the scalar projection of \"n\"-vector onto the \"x\"-axis of \"e\", the second onto the \"y\"-axis of \"e\" etc.). Note that the equation is exact both for spherical and ellipsoidal Earth model.\n\nFrom the three components of \"n\"-vector, formula_2, formula_3, and formula_4, latitude can be found by using:\n\nThe rightmost expression is best suited for computer program implementation.\n\nLongitude is found using:\n\nIn these expressions formula_7 should be implemented using a call to atan2(\"y\",\"x\"). The Pole singularity of longitude is evident as atan2(0,0) is undefined. Note that the equations are exact both for spherical and ellipsoidal Earth model.\n\nFinding the great circle distance between two horizontal positions (assuming spherical Earth) is usually done by means of latitude and longitude. Three different expressions for this distance are common; the first is based on arccos, the second is based on arcsin, and the final is based on arctan. The expressions, which are successively more complex to avoid numerical instabilities, are not easy to find, and since they are based on latitude and longitude, the Pole singularities may become a problem. They also contain deltas of latitude and longitude, which in general should be used with care near the ±180° meridian and the Poles.\n\nSolving the same problem using \"n\"-vector is simpler due to the possibility of using vector algebra. The arccos expression is achieved from the dot product, while the magnitude of the cross product gives the arcsin expression. Combining the two gives the arctan expression:\n\nwhere formula_9 and formula_10 are the \"n\"-vectors representing the two positions \"a\" and \"b\". formula_11 is the angular difference, and thus the great-circle distance is achieved by multiplying with the Earth radius. This expression also works at the poles and at the ±180° meridian. Note that \"arctan\" must be replaced by \"atan2\" in computer program implementation.\n\nThere are several other examples where the use of vector algebra simplifies standard problems. For a general comparison of the various representations, see the horizontal position representations page.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4761602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4761602", "title": "Ninjalicious", "text": "Ninjalicious\n\nJeff Chapman (September 19, 1973 – August 23, 2005), better known by the pseudonym Ninjalicious, was a Toronto-based urban explorer, fountaineer, writer and founder of the urban exploration zine \"Infiltration: the zine about going places you're not supposed to go\". He was also a prominent author and editor for \"YIP magazine\", as well as its website, \"Yip.org\".\n\nChapman died of cholangiocarcinoma on Tuesday, August 23, 2005 at the age of 31 — three years after a successful liver transplant at Toronto General Hospital (a location he loved to explore). Doctors claimed that Chapman's illness was caused by coming into contact with carcinogens during exploring, and family members confirmed that Chapman had been diagnosed with auto-immune diseases after becoming an avid explorer, and that his extended stays at hospitals further hooked him on exploring institutions.\n\nChapman attended York University in the early 1990s and later studied book and magazine publishing at Centennial College. He went on to serve as Editor at \"History Magazine\" and as Director of the Toronto Architectural Conservancy board.\n\nChapman first published \"Infiltration\" in 1996. In total, 25 issues were published — covering such urban exploration topics as the navigation of storm drains, evading hotel security and adventuring through abandoned military shelters. He also launched infiltration.org, an online version of the zine, in 1996.\n\nHis book, \"Access All Areas: a user's guide to the art of urban exploration\", was published in July 2005, shortly before his death. The book serves as a how-to-guide to urban exploration — covering topics from basic stealth and concealment, to social engineering techniques to ethics. Chapman is credited with coining the term \"credibility prop\", which describes a device, uniform, piece of equipment or other appurtenances used solely to reduce suspicion if one is encountered in a normally restricted area. A specific example of \"credibility prop\" is simply being wet (wetness being a good credibility prop for infiltration of a hotel pool).\nHe was also featured in CBC Newsworlds program BIG LIfe showing him exploring Toronto.\n\nJeff and his wife Liz were both interview subjects in the film \"\" as participants in the Toronto BBS community and other early online communities. He is credited under the handle \"Milky\", though he was also known as \"Milky Puppy\" online.\n\n"}
{"id": "714694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=714694", "title": "Northern England", "text": "Northern England\n\nNorthern England, also known simply as the North, is the northern part of England, considered as a single cultural area. It extends from the Scottish border in the north to near the River Trent in the south, although precise definitions of its southern extent vary. Northern England approximately comprises three statistical regions: the North East, North West and Yorkshire and the Humber. These have a combined population of around 14.9 million as of the 2011 Census and an area of 37,331 km (14,414 sq mi). Northern England contains much of England's national parkland but also has large areas of urbanisation, including the conurbations of Greater Manchester, Merseyside, Teesside, Tyneside, Wearside, and South and West Yorkshire.\n\nThe region has been controlled by many groups, from the Brigantes, the largest Brythonic kingdom of Great Britain, to the Romans, to Anglo-Saxons, Celts and Danes. After the Norman conquest in 1066, the Harrying of the North brought destruction. The area experienced Anglo-Scottish border fighting until the unification of Britain under the Stuarts, with some parts changing hands between England and Scotland many times. Many of the innovations of the Industrial Revolution began in Northern England, and its cities were the crucibles of many of the political changes that accompanied this social upheaval, from trade unionism to Manchester Capitalism. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, the economy of the North was dominated by heavy industry such as weaving, shipbuilding, steelmaking and mining. The deindustrialisation that followed in the second half of the 20th century hit Northern England hard, and many towns remain deprived compared with those in Southern England.\n\nUrban renewal projects and the transition to a service economy have resulted in strong economic growth in some parts of Northern England, but a definite North–South divide remains both in the economy and the culture of England. Centuries of migration, invasion and labour have shaped Northern culture, and the region retains distinctive dialects, music and cuisine.\n\nFor government and statistical purposes, Northern England is defined as the area covered by the three statistical regions of North East England, North West England and Yorkshire and the Humber. This area consists of the ceremonial counties of Cheshire, Cumbria, County Durham, East Riding of Yorkshire, Greater Manchester, Lancashire, Merseyside, Northumberland, North Yorkshire, South Yorkshire, Tyne and Wear and West Yorkshire, plus the unitary authority areas of North Lincolnshire and North East Lincolnshire. This definition will be used in this article, except when otherwise stated.\nOther definitions use historic county boundaries, in which case the North is generally taken to comprise Cumberland, Northumberland, Westmorland, County Durham, Lancashire and Yorkshire, often supplemented by Cheshire, or are drawn without reference to human borders, using geographic features such as the River Mersey and River Trent. The Isle of Man is occasionally included in definitions of \"the North\" (for example, by the Survey of English Dialects, VisitBritain and BBC North West), although it is politically and culturally distinct from England.\n\nSome areas of Derbyshire, Lincolnshire, Nottinghamshire and Staffordshire have Northern characteristics and include satellites of Northern cities. Towns in the High Peak borough of Derbyshire are included in the Greater Manchester Built-Up Area, as villages and hamlets there such as Tintwistle, Crowden and Woodhead were formerly in Cheshire before local government boundary changes in 1974, due to their close proximity to the city of Manchester, and before this the borough was considered to be part of the Greater Manchester Statutory City Region. More recently, the Chesterfield, North East Derbyshire, Bolsover, and Derbyshire Dales districts have joined with districts of South Yorkshire to form the Sheffield City Region, along with the Bassetlaw district of Nottinghamshire, although for all other purposes these districts still remain in their respective East Midlands counties. The geographer Danny Dorling includes most of the West Midlands and part of the East Midlands in his definition of the North, claiming that \"ideas of a midlands region add more confusion than light\". Conversely, more restrictive definitions also exist, typically based on the extent of the historical Northumbria, which exclude Cheshire and Lincolnshire. \n\nPersonal definitions of the North vary greatly and are sometimes passionately debated. When asked to draw a dividing line between North and South, Southerners tend to draw this line further south than Northerners do. From the Southern perspective, Northern England is sometimes defined jokingly as the area north of the Watford Gap between Northampton and Leicester – a definition which would include much of the Midlands. Various cities and towns have been described as or promoted themselves as the \"gateway to the North\", including Crewe, Stoke-on-Trent, and Sheffield. For some in the northernmost reaches of England, the North starts somewhere in North Yorkshire around the River Tees – the Yorkshire poet Simon Armitage suggests Thirsk, Northallerton or Richmond – and does not include cities like Manchester and Leeds, nor the majority of Yorkshire. Northern England is not a homogenous unit, and some have entirely rejected the idea that the North exists as a coherent entity, claiming that considerable cultural differences across the area overwhelm any similarities.\n\nThrough the North of England run the Pennines, an upland chain, often referred to as \"the backbone of England\", which stretches from the Tyne Gap to the Peak District. Other uplands in the North include the Lake District with England's highest mountains, the Cheviot Hills adjoining the border with Scotland, and the North York Moors near the North Sea coastline. The geography of the North has been heavily shaped by the ice sheets of the Pleistocene era, which often reached as far south as the Midlands. Glaciers carved deep, craggy valleys in the central uplands, and, when they melted, deposited large quantities of fluvio-glacial material in lowland areas like the Cheshire and Solway Plains. On the eastern side of the Pennines, a former glacial lake forms the Humberhead Levels: a large area of fenland which drains into the Humber and which is very fertile and productive farmland.\nMuch of the mountainous upland remains undeveloped, and of the ten national parks in England, five – the Peak District, the Lake District, the North York Moors, the Yorkshire Dales, and Northumberland National Park – are located partly or entirely in the North. The Lake District includes England's highest peak, Scafell Pike, which rises to , its largest lake, Windermere, and its deepest lake, Wastwater. Northern England is one of the most treeless areas in Europe, and to combat this the government plans to plant over 50 million trees in a new Northern Forest across the region.\nDense urban areas have emerged along the coasts and rivers, and they run almost contiguously into each other in places. The needs of trade and industry have produced an almost continuous thread of urbanisation from the Wirral Peninsula to Doncaster, taking in the cities of Liverpool, Manchester, Leeds, and Sheffield, with a population of at least 7.6 million. Uniquely for such a large urban belt in Europe, these cities are all recent; most of them started as scattered villages with no shared identity before the Industrial Revolution. On the east coast, trade fuelled the growth of major ports such as Kingston upon Hull and Newcastle upon Tyne, and the riverside conurbations of Teesside, Tyneside and Wearside became the largest towns in the North East. Northern England is now heavily urbanised: analysis by The Northern Way in 2006 found that 90% of the population of the North lived in one of its city regions: Liverpool, Central Lancashire, Manchester, Sheffield, Leeds, Hull and Humber Ports, Tees Valley and Tyne and Wear. As of the 2011 census, 86% of the Northern population lived in urban areas as defined by the Office for National Statistics, compared to 82% for England as a whole.\n\nPeat is found in thick, plentiful layers across the Pennines and Scottish Borders, and there are many large coalfields, including the Great Northern, Lancashire and South Yorkshire Coalfields. Millstone grit, a distinctive coarse-grained rock used to make millstones, is widespread in the Pennines, and the variety of other rock types is reflected in the architecture of the region, such as the bright red sandstone seen in buildings in Chester, the cream-buff Yorkstone and the distinctive purple Doddington sandstone. These sandstones also mean that apart from the east coast, most of Northern England has very soft water, and this has influenced not just industry, but even the blends of tea enjoyed in the region.\n\nRich deposits of iron ore are found in Cumbria and the North East, and fluorspar and baryte are also plentiful in northern parts of the Pennines. Salt mining in Cheshire has a long history, and both remaining rock salt mines in Great Britain are in the North: Winsford Mine in Cheshire and Boulby Mine in North Yorkshire, which also produces half of the UK's potash.\n\nNorthern England has a cool, wet oceanic climate with small areas of subpolar oceanic climate in the uplands. Averaged across the entire region, Northern England is cooler, wetter and cloudier than England as a whole, and contains both England's coldest point (Cross Fell) and its rainiest point (Seathwaite Fell). Its temperature range and sunshine duration is similar to the UK average and it sees substantially less rain than Scotland or Wales. These averages disguise considerable variation across the region, due chiefly to the upland regions and adjacent seas.\n\nThe prevailing winds across the British Isles are westerlies bringing moisture from the Atlantic Ocean; this means that the west coast frequently receives strong winds and heavy rainfall while the east coast lies in a rain shadow behind the Pennines. As a result, Teesside and the Northumbrian coast are the driest regions in the North, with around of rain per year, while parts of the Lake District receive over . Lowland regions in the more southern parts of Northern England such as Cheshire and South Yorkshire are the warmest, with average maximum July temperatures of over , while the highest points in the Pennines and Lake District reach only . The area has a reputation for cloud and fog – especially along its east coast, which experiences a distinctive sea fog known as fret – although the Clean Air Act 1956 and decline of heavy industry have seen sunshine duration increase in urban areas in recent years.\nThe English spoken today in the North has been shaped by the area's history, and some dialects retain features inherited from Old Norse and the local Celtic languages. Dialects spoken in the North include Cumbrian, Geordie (Tyneside), Mancunian (Manchester), Northumbrian (Northumberland), Pitmatic (former mining communities of Northumberland/County Durham), Scouse (Liverpool) and Tyke (Yorkshire). Linguists have attempted to define a Northern dialect area, corresponding to the area north of a line that begins at the Humber estuary and runs up the River Wharfe and across to the River Lune in north Lancashire. This area corresponds roughly to the \"sprachraum\" of the Old English Northumbrian dialect, although the linguistic elements that defined this area in the past, such as the use of \"doon\" instead of \"down\" and substitution of an \"ang\" sound in words that end -\"ong\" (\"lang\" instead of \"long\"), are now prevalent only in the more northern parts of the region. As speech has changed, there is little consensus on what defines a \"Northern\" accent or dialect.\n\nNorthern English accents have not undergone the – split, and a common shibboleth to distinguish them from Southern ones is the Northern use of the short a (the near-open front unrounded vowel) in words such as \"bath\" and \"castle\". On the opposite border, most Northern English accents can be distinguished from Scottish accents because they are non-rhotic, although a few rhotic Lancashire accents remain. Other features common to many Northern English accents are the absence of the – split (so \"put\" and \"putt\" are homophones), the reduction of the definite article \"the\" to a glottal stop (usually represented in writing as \"t\"), and the T-to-R rule that leads to the pronunciation of \"t\" as a rhotic consonant in phrases like \"get up\" ().\n\nThe pronouns \"thou\" and \"thee\" survive in some Northern English dialects, although these are dying out outside very rural areas, and many dialects have an informal second-person plural pronoun: either \"ye\" (common in the North East) or \"yous\" (common in areas with historical Irish communities). Many dialects use \"me\" as a possessive (\"me car\") and some treat \"us\" likewise (\"us cars\") or use the alternative \"wor\" (\"wor cars\"). Possessive pronouns are also used to mark the names of relatives in speech (for example, a relative called Joan would be referred to as \"our Joan\" in conversation).\n\nWith urbanisation, distinctive urban accents have arisen which often differ greatly from the historical accents of the surrounding rural areas and sometimes share features with Southern English accents. Northern English dialects remain an important part of the culture of the region, and the desire of speakers to assert their local identity has led to accents such as Scouse and Geordie becoming more distinctive and spreading into surrounding areas.\n\nThere are no recognised minority languages in Northern England, although the Northumbrian Language Society campaigns to have the Northumbrian dialect recognised as a separate language. Traces of now-extinct Brythonic Celtic languages from the region survive in some rural areas in the Yan Tan Tethera counting systems traditionally used by shepherds.\n\nContact between English and immigrant languages has given rise to new accents and dialects. For instance, the variety of English spoken by Poles in Manchester is distinct both from typical Polish-accented English and from Mancunian. At a local level, the diversity of immigrant communities means that some languages that are extremely rare in the country as a whole have strongholds in Northern towns: Bradford for instance has the largest proportion of Pashto speakers, while Manchester has most Cantonese speakers.\n\nDuring the ice ages, Northern England was buried under ice sheets, and little evidence remains of habitation – either because the climate made the area uninhabitable, or because glaciation destroyed most evidence of human activity. The northern-most cave art in Europe is found at Creswell Crags in northern Derbyshire, near modern-day Sheffield, which shows signs of Neanderthal inhabitation 50 to 60 thousand years ago, and of a more modern occupation known as the Creswellian culture around 12,000 years ago. Kirkwell Cave in Lower Allithwaite, Cumbria shows signs of the Federmesser culture of the Paleolithic, and was inhabited some time between 13,400 and 12,800 years ago.\n\nSignificant settlement appears to have begun in the Mesolithic era, with Star Carr in North Yorkshire generally considered the most significant monument of this era. The Star Carr site includes Britain's oldest known house, from around 9000 BC, and the earliest evidence of carpentry in the form of a carved tree trunk from 11000 BC.\n\nThe Lincolnshire and Yorkshire Wolds around the Humber Estuary were settled and farmed in the Bronze Age, and the Ferriby Boats – one of the best-preserved finds of the era – were discovered near Hull in 1937. In the more mountainous regions of the Peak District, hillforts were the main Bronze Age settlement and the locals were most likely pastoralists raising livestock.\n\nRoman histories name the Celtic tribe that occupied the majority of Northern England as the Brigantes, likely meaning \"Highlanders\". Whether the Brigantes were a unified group or a looser federation of tribes around the Pennines is debated, but the name appears to have been adopted by the inhabitants of the region, which was known by the Romans as Brigantia. Other tribes mentioned in ancient histories, which may have been part of the Brigantes or separate nations, are the Carvetii of modern-day Cumbria and the Parisi of east Yorkshire.\n\nThe Brigantes allied with the Roman Empire during the Roman conquest of Britain: Tacitus records that they handed the resistance leader Caratacus over to the Empire in 51. Power struggles within the Brigantes made the Romans wary, and they were conquered in a war beginning in the 70s under the governorship of Quintus Petillius Cerialis. The Romans created the province of \"Britannia Inferior\" (Lower Britain) in the North, and it was ruled from the city of Eboracum (modern York). Eboracum and Deva Victrix (modern Chester) were the main legionary bases in the region, with other smaller forts including Mamucium (Manchester) and Cataractonium (Catterick). Britannia Inferior extended as far north as Hadrian's Wall, which was the northernmost border of the Roman Empire. Although the Romans invaded modern-day Northumberland and part of Scotland beyond it, they never succeeded in conquering the reaches of Britain beyond the River Tyne.\n\nAfter the end of Roman rule in Britain and the arrival of the Angles, Yr Hen Ogledd (the \"Old North\") was divided into rival kingdoms, Bernicia, Deira, Rheged and Elmet. Bernicia covered lands north of the Tees, Deira corresponded roughly to the eastern half of modern-day Yorkshire, Rheged to Cumbria, and Elmet to the western-half of Yorkshire. Bernicia and Deira were first united as Northumbria by Aethelfrith, a king of Bernicia who conquered Deira around the year 604. Northumbria then saw a Golden Age in cultural, scholarly and monastic activity, centred on Lindisfarne and aided by Irish monks. The north-west of England retains vestiges of a Celtic culture, and had its own Celtic language, Cumbric, spoken predominately in Cumbria until around the 12th century.\n\nParts of the north and east of England were subject to Danish control (the Danelaw) during the Viking era, but the northern part of the old Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Northumbria remained under Anglo-Saxon control. Under the Vikings, monasteries were largely wiped out, and the discovery of grave goods in Northern churchyards suggests that Norse funeral rites replaced Christian ones for a time. Viking control of certain areas, particularly around Yorkshire, is recalled in the etymology of many place names: the \"thorpe\" in town names such as Cleethorpes and Scunthorpe, the \"kirk\" in Kirklees and Ormskirk and the \"by\" of Whitby and Grimsby all have Norse roots.\n\nThe 1066 defeat of the Norwegian king Harald Hardrada by the Anglo-Saxon Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Stamford Bridge near York marked the beginning of the end of Viking rule in England, and the almost immediate defeat of Godwinson at the hands of the Norman William the Conqueror at the Battle of Hastings was in turn the overthrow of the Anglo-Saxon order. The Northumbrian and Danish aristocracy resisted the Norman Conquest, and to put an end to the rebellion, William ordered the Harrying of the North. In the winter of 1069–1070, towns, villages and farms were systematically destroyed across much of Yorkshire as well as northern Lancashire and County Durham. The region was gripped by famine and much of Northern England was deserted. Chroniclers at the time reported a hundred thousand deaths – modern estimates place the total somewhere in the tens of thousands, out of a population of two million. When the Domesday Book was compiled in 1086, much of Northern England was still recorded as wasteland, although this may have been in part because the chroniclers, more interested in manorial farmland, paid little attention to pastoral areas.\nFollowing Norman subjugation, monasteries returned to the North as missionaries sought to \"settle the desert\". Monastic orders such as the Cistercians became significant players in the economy of Northern England – the Cistercian Fountains Abbey in North Yorkshire became the largest and richest of the Northern abbeys, and would remain so until the Dissolution of the Monasteries. Other Cistercian abbeys are at Rievaulx, Kirkstall and Byland. The 7th-century Whitby Abbey was Benedictine and Bolton Abbey, Augustinian. A significant Flemish immigration followed the conquest, which likely populated much of the desolated regions of Cumbria, and which was persistent enough that the town of Beverley in Humberside still had an ethnic enclave called Flemingate in the thirteenth century.\n\nDuring the Anarchy, Scotland invaded Northern England and took much of the land north of Durham. In the 1139 peace treaty that followed, Prince Henry of Scotland was made Earl of Northumberland and kept the counties of Cumberland, Westmorland and Northumbria, as well as part of Lancashire. These reverted to English control in 1157, establishing for the most part the modern England–Scotland border. The region also saw violence during The Great Raid of 1322 when Robert the Bruce invaded and raided the whole of Northern England. There was also the Wars of the Roses, including the decisive Battle of Wakefield, although the modern-day conception of the war as a conflict between Lancashire and Yorkshire is anachronistic – Lancastrians recruited from across Northern England, including Yorkshire, while the Yorkists drew most of their power from Southern England, Wales and Ireland. The Anglo-Scottish Wars also touched the region, and in just 400 years, Berwick-upon-Tweed – now the northernmost town in England – changed hands more than a dozen times. The wars also saw thousands of Scots settle south of the border, chiefly in the border counties and Yorkshire.\n\nAfter the English Reformation, the North saw several Catholic uprisings, including the Lincolnshire Rising, Bigod's Rebellion in Cumberland and Westmorland, and largest of all, the Yorkshire-based Pilgrimage of Grace, all against Henry VIII. His daughter Elizabeth I faced another Catholic rebellion, the Rising of the North. The region would become the centre of recusancy as prominent Catholic families in Cumbria, Lancashire and Yorkshire refused to convert to Protestantism. Royal power over the region was exercised through the Council of the North at King's Manor, York, which was founded in 1484 by Richard III. The Council existed intermittently for the next two centuries – its final incarnation was created in the aftermath of the Pilgrimage of Grace and was chiefly an institution for providing order and dispensing justice.\n\nNorthern England was a focal point for fighting during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms. The border counties were invaded by Scotland in the Second Bishops' War, and at the 1640 Treaty of Ripon King Charles I was forced to temporarily cede Northumberland and County Durham to the Scots and pay to keep the Scottish armies there. To raise enough funds and ratify the final peace treaty, Charles had to call what became the Long Parliament, beginning the process that led to the First English Civil War. In 1641, the Long Parliament abolished the Council of the North for perceived abuses during the Personal Rule period. By the time war broke out in 1642, King Charles had moved his court to York, and Northern England was to become a major base of the Royalist forces until they were routed at the Battle of Marston Moor.\n\nAt the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, Northern England had plentiful coal and water power while the poor agriculture in the uplands meant that labour in the area was cheap. Mining and milling, which had been practiced on a small scale in the area for generations, began to grow and centralise. The boom in industrial textile manufacture is sometimes attributed to the damp climate and soft water making it easier to wash and work fibres, although the success of Northern fabric mills has no single clear source. Readily available coal and the discovery of large iron deposits in Cumbria and Cleveland allowed ironmaking and, with the invention of the Bessemer process, steelmaking to take root in the region. High quality steel in turn fed the shipyards that opened along the coasts, especially on Tyneside and at Barrow-in-Furness.\nThe Great Famine in Ireland of the 1840s drove migrants across the Irish Sea, and many settled in the industrial cities of the North, especially Manchester and Liverpool – at the 1851 census, 13% of the population of Manchester and Salford were Irish-born, and in Liverpool the figure was 22%. In response there was a wave of anti-Catholic riots and Protestant Orange Orders proliferated across Northern England, chiefly in Lancashire, but also elsewhere in the North. By 1881 there were 374 Orange organisations in Lancashire, 71 in the North East, and 42 in Yorkshire. From further afield, Northern England saw immigration from European countries such as Germany, Italy, Poland, Russia and Scandinavia. Some immigrants were well-to-do industrialists seeking to do business in the booming industrial cities, some were escaping poverty, some were servants or slaves, some were sailors who chose to settle in the port towns, some were Jews fleeing pogroms on the continent, and some were migrants originally stranded at Liverpool after attempting to catch an onwards ship to the United States or to colonies of the British Empire. At the same time, hundreds of thousands from depressed rural areas of the North emigrated, chiefly to the US, Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe First World War was the turning point for the economy of Northern England. In the interwar years, the Northern economy began to be eclipsed by the South – in 1913–1914, unemployment in \"outer Britain\" (the North, plus Scotland and Wales) was 2.6% while the rate in Southern England was more than double that at 5.5%, but in 1937 during the Great Depression the outer British unemployment rate was 16.1% and the Southern rate was less than half that at 7.1%. The weakening economy and interwar unemployment caused several episodes of social unrest in the region, including the 1926 general strike and the Jarrow March. The Great Depression highlighted the weakness of Northern England's specialised economy: as world trade declined, demand for ships, steel, coal and textiles all fell. For the most part, Northern factories were still using nineteenth-century technology, and were not able to keep up with advances in industries such as motors, chemicals and electricals, while the expansion of the electric grid removed the North's advantages in terms of power generation and meant it was now more economic to build new factories in the Midlands or South.\n\nThe industrial concentration in Northern England made it a major target for Luftwaffe attacks during the Second World War. The Blitz of 1940–1941 saw major raids on Barrow-in-Furness, Hull, Leeds, Manchester, Merseyside, Newcastle and Sheffield with thousands killed and significant damage to the cities. Liverpool, a vital port for supplies from North America, was especially hard hit – the city was the most bombed in the UK outside London, with around 4,000 deaths across Merseyside and most of the city centre destroyed. The rebuilding that followed, and the simultaneous slum clearance that saw whole neighbourhoods demolished and rebuilt, transformed the faces of Northern cities. Immigration from the \"New Commonwealth\", especially Pakistan and Bangladesh, starting in the 1950s reshaped Northern England once more, and there are now significant populations from the Indian subcontinent in towns and cities such as Bradford, Leeds, Preston and Sheffield.\n\nDeindustrialisation continued and unemployment gradually increased during the 1970s, but accelerated during the government of Margaret Thatcher, who chose not to encourage growth in the North if it risked growth in the South. The era saw the 1984–85 miners' strike, which brought hardship for many Northern mining towns. Northern metropolitan county councils, which were Labour strongholds often with very left-wing leadership (such as Militant-dominated Liverpool and the so-called \"People's Republic of South Yorkshire\"), had high-profile conflicts with the national government. The increasing awareness of the North–South divide strengthened the distinct Northern English identity, which, despite regeneration in some of the major cities, remains to this day.\n\nThe region saw several IRA attacks during the Troubles, including the M62 coach bombing, the Warrington bomb attacks and the 1992 and 1996 Manchester bombings. The latter was the largest bomb detonation in Great Britain since the end of the Second World War, and damaged or destroyed much of central Manchester. The attack led to Manchester's ageing infrastructure being rebuilt and modernised, sparking the regeneration of the city and making it a leading example of post-industrial redevelopment followed by other cities in the region and beyond.\n\nAs of the 2011 census, Northern England had a population of 14,933,000 – a growth of 5.1% since 2001 – in 6,364,000 households, meaning that Northerners comprise 28% of the English population and 24% of the UK population. Taken overall, 8% of the population of Northern England were born overseas (3% from the European Union including Ireland and 5% from elsewhere), substantially less than the England and Wales average of 13%, and 5% define their nationality as something other than a UK or Irish identity. 90.5% of the population described themselves as white, compared to an England and Wales average of 85.9%; other ethnicities represented include Pakistani (2.9%), Indian (1.3%), Black (1.3%), Chinese (0.6%) and Bangladeshi (0.5%). The broad averages hide significant variation within the region: Allerdale and Redcar and Cleveland had a greater percentage of the population identifying as White British (97.6% each) than any other district in England and Wales, while Manchester (66.5%), Bradford (67.4%) and Blackburn with Darwen (69.1%) had among the lowest proportions of White British outside London.\n\n95% of the Northern population speak English as a first language – compared to an England and Wales average of 92% – and another 4% speak English as a second language well or very well. The 5% of the population who have another native language are chiefly speakers of European or South Asian languages. As of the 2011 census, the largest languages apart from English were Polish (spoken by 0.7% of the population), Urdu (0.6%) and Punjabi (0.5%), and 0.4% of the population speak a variety of Chinese: a similar distribution to that in the whole of England. Redcar and Cleveland has the largest proportion of the population speaking English as a first language in England, with 99.3%.\n\nAt the 2011 census, the North East and North West had the largest proportion of Christians in England and Wales; 67.5% and 67.3% respectively (the proportion in Yorkshire and the Humber was lower at 59.5%). Yorkshire and the Humber and the North West both had significant populations of Muslims – 6.2% and 5.1% respectively – while Muslims in the North East made up only 1.8% of the population. All other faiths combined comprised less than 2% of the population in all regions.\n\nThe census question on religion has been criticised by the British Humanist Association as leading, and other surveys of religion tend to find very different results. The 2015 British Election Survey found 52% of Northerners identified as Christian (22% Anglican, 14% non-denominational Christian, 12% Roman Catholic, 2% Methodist, and 2% other Christian denominations), 40% as non-religious, 5% as Muslim, 1% as Hindu and 1% as Jewish.\n\nOne major manifestation of the North–South divide is in health and life expectancy statistics. All three Northern England statistical regions have lower than average life expectancies and higher than average rates of cancer, circulatory disease and respiratory disease. Blackpool has the lowest life expectancy at birth in England – male life expectancy at birth between 2012 and 2014 was 74.7, against an England-wide average of 79.5 – and the majority of English districts in the bottom 50 were in the North East or the North West. However, regional differences do seem to be slowly narrowing: between 1991–1993 and 2012–2014, life expectancy in the North East increased by 6.0 years and in the North West by 5.8 years, the fastest increase in any region outside London, and the gap between life expectancy in the North East and South East is now 2.5 years, down from 2.9 in 1993.\n\nBefore the 19th century there were no universities in Northern England. The first was the University of Durham, founded in 1832 and sometimes counted with the ancient universities of Oxford and Cambridge, although it post-dates them by many centuries. The next universities built in the North were part of the wave of redbrick universities of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Today, there are seven Northern institutions in the Russell Group of leading research universities: Durham, the redbricks of Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle and Sheffield and the later plate glass university of York. These universities, together with plate-glass Lancaster, form the N8 Research Partnership.\n\nThere is a significant attainment gap between Northern and Southern schools, and pupils in the three Northern regions are less likely than the national average to achieve five higher-tier GCSEs, although this may be down to economic disadvantages faced by Northern pupils rather than an actual difference in school quality. Northern students are under-represented at Oxbridge, where three times as many places go to Southerners as to Northerners, and other Southern universities while Southerners are under-represented at leading Northern universities such as Sheffield, Manchester and Leeds. There are calls for the government to invest in education in disadvantaged parts of Northern England to redress this.\n\nLike the UK as a whole, the Northern English economy is now dominated by the service sector – as of September 2016, 82.2% of workers in the Northern statistical regions were employed in services, compared to 83.7% for the UK as a whole. Manufacturing now employs 9.5%, compared to the national average of 7.6%. The unemployment rate in Northern England is 5.3% compared to an England-wide and UK-wide average of 4.8%, and the North East has the highest unemployment rate in the UK, at 7.0% as of December 2016, more than one percentage point higher than any other region. As of 2015, the gross value added (GVA) of the Northern English economy was £316 billion, and if it were an independent nation, it would be the tenth largest economy in Europe. The region does have poor growth and productivity rates compared to Southern England and to other EU countries.\n\nGrowth, employment and household income have lagged behind the South, and the five most deprived districts in England are all in Northern England, as are ten of the twelve most declining major towns in the UK. The picture is not clear-cut, as the North has areas which are as wealthy as, if not wealthier than, fashionable Southern areas such as Surrey. Yorkshire's Golden Triangle which extends from north Leeds to Harrogate and across to York is an example, as is Cheshire's Golden Triangle, centred on Alderley Edge. There are major disparities even across individual cities: Sheffield Hallam is one of the wealthiest constituencies in the country, and is the richest outside London and the South East, while Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough, just on the other side of the city, is one of the most deprived. Housing in Northern England is more affordable than the UK average: the median house price in most Northern cities was below £200,000 in 2015 with typical increases of below 10% over the previous five years. However, some areas have seen house prices fall considerably, putting inhabitants at risk of negative equity.\n\nTo stimulate the Northern economy, the government has organised a series of programmes to invest in and develop the region, of which the latest as of 2017 is the Northern Powerhouse. The North has also been a significant recipient of European Union Structural Funds. Between 2007 and 2013, EU funds created around 70,000 jobs in the region, and the majority of Northern Powerhouse funding comes from the European Regional Development Fund and the European Investment Bank. The loss of these funds following Brexit, combined with potential reductions in exports to the EU, has been identified as a threat to Northern growth.\n\nThe public sector is a major employer in Northern England. Between 2000 and 2008, the majority of new jobs created in Northern England were for the government and its suppliers and contractors. All three Northern regions have public sector employment above the national average, and North East has the highest level in England with 20.2% of the workforce in the public sector as of 2016 – down from 23.4% a decade earlier. The austerity programme under the government of David Cameron saw significant cuts to public services, and the reduction in public sector employment resulted in job losses for around 3% of the Northern England workforce with significant impact on the regional economy.\n\nThere are of farmland in Northern England. The rough Pennine terrain means that most of Northern England is unsuited for growing crops; like Scotland, Northern farming was traditionally dominated by oats, which grow better than wheat in poor soil. Today, the mix of cereals and vegetables grown is similar to that of the UK as a whole, but only a minority of land is arable. Only 32% of Northern farmland is primarily used for growing crops, compared to 49% for England as a whole. Conversely, 57% of the land is given over to rearing livestock, and 33% of England's cattle, 43% of its pigs and 46% of its sheep and lambs are reared in the North.\n\nThe only part of the region that is predominantly given over to crops is the land around the Humber estuary, where the well-drained fens result in excellent quality land. The lowland Cheshire Plain is mostly given over to dairy farming, while in the Pennines and Cheviots grazing sheep play an important role not just in agriculture but also in land management more generally. Heather moorland in the Pennine uplands is home to driven grouse shooting from 12 August (the Glorious Twelfth) until 10 December every year. In the twentieth century, numbers of red grouse and black grouse in the area fell significantly, but improved gamekeeping practices have resulted in both species making a comeback in the region.\n\nSea fishing is an important industry for Northern coastal towns. Major fishing ports include Fleetwood, Grimsby, Hull and Whitby. At its height, Grimsby was the largest fishing port in the world, but the Northern fishing industry suffered greatly from a series of events in the second half of the twentieth century: the Cod Wars with Iceland and establishment of the exclusive economic zone ended British access to rich North Atlantic fishing grounds, while the North Sea was badly overfished and the European Common Fisheries Policy put strict quotas on catches to protect the almost depleted stocks. Grimsby is now transitioning to the processing of imported seafood and to offshore wind to replace its fishing fleet.\n\nNorthern England has a strong export-based economy, with trade more balanced than the UK average, and the North East is the only region of England to regularly export more than it imports. Chemicals, vehicles, machinery and other manufactured goods make up the majority of Northern exports, just over half of which go to other EU countries. Major manufacturing plants include car plants at Vauxhall Ellesmere Port, Jaguar Land Rover Halewood and Nissan Sunderland, the Leyland Trucks factory, the Hitachi Newton Aycliffe train plant, the Humber, Lindsey and Stanlow oil refineries, the NEPIC cluster of chemical works based around Teesside, and the nuclear processing facilities at Springfields and Sellafield.\n\nOffshore oil and gas from North Sea and Irish Sea, and more recently offshore wind, are significant components in Northern England's energy mix. Although deep-pit coal mining in the UK ended in 2015 with the closure of Kellingley Colliery, North Yorkshire, there are still several open-pit mines in the area. Shale gas is especially prevalent across Northern England, although plans to extract it through hydraulic fracturing (\"fracking\") have proven to be controversial.\n\nAround 10% of the Northern England workforce is employed in retail. Of the Big Four supermarkets in the UK, two – Asda and Morrisons – are based in the North. Northern England was the birthplace of the modern cooperative movement, and the Manchester-based Co-operative Group has the highest revenue of any firm in the North West. The area is also home to many online retailers, with startups emerging around tech hubs in Northern cities.\n\nWith urban regeneration, high-value service sector industries such as corporate services and financial services have taken root in Northern England, with major hubs around Leeds and Manchester. Call centres – attracted by low labour costs and a preference for Northern English accents among the public – have replaced heavy industry as major employers of unskilled workers, with more than 5% of workers in all Northern England regions working in one.\n\nTogether, the N8 research universities have over 190,000 students and contribute more to the Northern economy in terms of GVA than agriculture, car manufacturing or media. Discoveries and inventions at these universities have resulted in spin-offs worth hundreds of millions to local economies: the discovery of graphene at the University of Manchester produced the National Graphene Institute and the Sir Henry Royce Institute for Advanced Materials, while robotics research at the University of Sheffield led to the development of the Advanced Manufacturing Park.\n\nRecent decades have seen the growth of high-tech companies based around Northern England's major cities. There are eleven high-tech firms worth over $1 billion based in the region, and digital industries support around 300,000 jobs. Game development, online retail, health technology and analytics are among the major high-tech sectors in the North.\n\nThe expansion of the railway network in the second half of the nineteenth century meant most in the North lived within reach of the coast, and seaside towns saw a major tourism boom. By around 1870 Blackpool on the Lancashire coast had become overwhelmingly the most popular destination – not just for Northern families, but many from the Midlands and Scotland as well. Other resorts popular with Northerners included Morecambe in northern Lancashire, Whitley Bay near Newcastle, Whitby in North Yorkshire, and New Brighton on the Wirral Peninsula, as well as Rhyl over the border in North Wales.\n\nThe same social forces that had built these resorts in the nineteenth century proved to be their undoing in the twentieth. Transport links continued to improve and it became possible to travel overseas quickly and affordably. The Belgian coast at Ostend became popular with Northern working-class tourists in the first half of the twentieth century, and the introduction of package holidays in the 1970s was the death of most Northern seaside resorts. Blackpool has maintained a focus on tourism, and remains one of the most visited towns in England, but visitor numbers are far below their peak and the town's economy has suffered – both employment rates and average earnings remain below the regional average.\n\nThe wild landscapes of the North are a major draw for tourists, and many urban areas are looking for regeneration through industrial, heritage and cultural tourism: of the 24 national museums and galleries in England outside London, 14 are located in the North. As of 2015, Northern England receives around a quarter of all domestic tourism within the UK, with 28.7 million visitors in 2015, but only 8% of international tourists to the United Kingdom visit the region.\n\nAs part of a drive to reduce media centralisation in London, the BBC and ITV have moved much of their programme production to MediaCityUK in Salford. Of the four national evening soap operas, three are set and filmed in Northern England (\"Coronation Street\" in Manchester, \"Emmerdale\" in the Yorkshire Dales and \"Hollyoaks\" in Chester) and these are important to the local TV industry – the commitment to \"Emmerdale\" saved ITV Yorkshire's Leeds Studios from closure. The region also has a reputation for drama serials and has produced some the most successful and acclaimed series of recent decades, including \"Boys from the Blackstuff\", \"Our Friends in the North\", \"Clocking Off\", \"Shameless\" and \"Last Tango in Halifax\".\n\nSince \"The Guardian\" (formerly \"The Manchester Guardian\") moved to London in 1964, no major national paper is based in the North, and Northern news stories tend to be poorly covered in the national press. \"The Yorkshire Post\" promotes itself as \"Yorkshire's national paper\" and covers some national and international stories, but is primarily focused on news from Yorkshire and the North East. An attempt in 2016 to create a dedicated North-focused national newspaper, \"24\", failed after six weeks. Across Northern England as a whole, \"The Sun\" is the best selling newspaper, but the ongoing boycott around Merseyside following the newspaper's coverage of the 1989 Hillsborough disaster has seen the paper fall behind both the \"Daily Mail\" and the \"Daily Mirror\" in the North West. In general national readership in the North drags behind that of the South; the \"Mirror\" and the \"Daily Star\" are the only national papers with more readers in Northern England than in the South East and London. Local newspapers are the top-selling titles in both the North East and Yorkshire and the Humber, although Northern regional newspapers have seen steep declines in readership in recent years. Only seven daily Northern papers have circulation figures above 25,000 as of June 2016: \"Manchester Evening News\", \"Liverpool Echo\", \"Hull Daily Mail\", \"Newcastle Chronicle\", \"The Yorkshire Post\" and \"The Northern Echo\".\n\nManchester Network Access Point is the only internet exchange point in the UK outside London, and forms the main hub for the region. Household internet access in Northern England is at or above the UK average, but speeds and broadband penetration vary greatly. In 2013 the average speed in central Manchester was 60 Mbit/s, while in nearby Warrington the average speed was only 6.2 Mbit/s. Hull, which is unique in the UK in that its telephone network was never nationalised, has simultaneously some of the fastest and slowest internet speeds in the country: many households have \"ultrafast\" fibre optic broadband as standard, but it is also one of only two places in the UK where over 30% of businesses receive less than 10 Mbit/s. Speeds are especially poor in the rural parts of the North, with many small towns and villages completely without high speed access. Some areas have therefore formed their own community enterprises, such as Broadband 4 Rural North in Lancashire and Cybermoor in Cumbria, to install high-speed internet connections. Mobile broadband coverage is similarly patchy, with 3G and 4G almost universal in cities but unavailable in large parts of Yorkshire, the North East and Cumbria.\n\nThe individual regions of the North have had their own identities and cultures for centuries, but with industrialisation, mass media and the opening of the North–South divide, a common Northern identity began to develop. This identity was initially a reactionary response to Southern prejudices—the North of the nineteenth century was largely depicted as a dirty, wild and uncultured place, even in sympathetic depictions such as Elizabeth Gaskell's 1855 novel \"North and South\"—but became an affirmation of what Northerners saw as their own personal strengths. Traits stereotypically associated with Northern England are straight-talking, grit and warmheartedness, as compared to the supposedly effete Southerners. Northern England—especially Lancashire, but also Yorkshire and the North East—has a tradition of matriarchal families, where the woman of the house runs the home and controls the family's finances. This too has its roots in industrialisation, when mills offered well-paid work for women: during depressions when demand for coal and steel were low, women were often the main breadwinners. Northern women are still stereotyped as strong-willed and independent, or affectionately as battle-axes.\n\nThe North of England is often stereotypically represented through the clothing worn by working-class men and women in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Working men would wear a heavy jacket and trousers held up by braces, an overcoat, and a hat, typically a flat cap, while women would wear a dress, or a skirt and blouse, with an apron on top as protection from dirt; in colder months they would often wear a shawl or headscarf. If not wearing leather lace-up shoes, some men and women would have worn English clogs, which were hardwearing and had replaceable soles and tips. Factory workers tapping their feet in time with the click of machinery developed a type of folk clog dance referred to as \"clogging\", which was intricately developed in the North.\n\nIn the second half of the twentieth century, these traditional clothes fell out of fashion. Other styles such as \"casual\" (mainland European designer clothing brought back by touring football fans) and sportswear became more popular, and the influence of Northern bands and football teams helped spread them across the country. In the twenty-first century, some traditional Northern items of clothing have begun to make a comeback – in particular, the flat cap.\n\nImpressions of Northern English cuisine are still shaped by the working-class diet of the early twentieth century, which was heavy on offal, high in calories and often not particularly healthy. Dishes such as black pudding, tripe, mushy peas and meat pie remain stereotypical Northern English foods in the national imagination. As a result, there is a concerted effort among Northern chefs to improve the region's image. Some Northern dishes, such as Yorkshire pudding and Lancashire hotpot have spread across the UK, and only their names now hint at their origin. Among the Northern delicacies that have achieved Protected Geographical Status are traditional Cumberland sausage, traditional Grimsby smoked fish, Swaledale cheese, Yorkshire forced rhubarb and Yorkshire Wensleydale. \n\nThe North is known for its often crumbly cheeses, of which Cheshire cheese is the earliest example. Unlike Southern cheeses like Cheddar, Northern cheeses typically use uncooked milk and a pre-salted curd pressed under enormous weights, resulting in a moist, sharp-tasting cheese. Wensleydale, another crumbly cheese, is unusual in that it is often served as a side to sweet cakes, which are themselves well represented in Northern England. Parkin, an oatmeal cake with black treacle and ginger, is a traditional treat across the North on Bonfire Night, and the fruity scone-like singing hinny and fat rascal are popular in the North East and Yorkshire respectively.\n\nWhile a variety of beers are popular across Northern England, the region is especially associated with brown ales such as Newcastle Brown Ale, Double Maxim and Samuel Smith's Nut Brown Ale. Beer in the North is usually served with a thick head which accentuates the nutty, malty flavours preferred in Northern beers. On the non-alcoholic side, the North – in particular, Lancashire – was the hub of the temperance bar movement which popularised soft drinks such as dandelion and burdock, Tizer and Vimto.\n\nIn recent decades, immigration to Northern England has shaped its cuisine. The Teesside parmo is one example, derived from escalope Parmesan brought to the area by an Italian-American immigrant and adapted to the region's taste. There are large Chinatowns in Liverpool, Manchester and Newcastle, and communities from the Indian subcontinent in all major towns. Bradford has won the Federation of Specialist Restaurant's \"Curry Capital\" title six years in a row as of 2016, while the Curry Mile in Manchester formerly had the largest concentration of curry restaurants in the UK and now offers a wide range of South Asian and Middle Eastern cuisine.\n\nThe contrasting geography of Northern England is reflected in its literature. On the one hand, the wild moors and lakes have inspired generations of Romantic authors: the poetry of William Wordsworth and the novels of the Brontë sisters are perhaps the most famous examples of writing inspired by these elemental forces. Classics of children's literature such as \"The Railway Children\" (1906), \"The Secret Garden\" (1911) and \"Swallows and Amazons\" (1930) portray these largely untouched landscapes as worlds of adventure and transformation where their protagonists can break free of the restrictions of society. Modern poets such as the former Poet Laureate Ted Hughes and Oxford Professor of Poetry Simon Armitage have found inspiration in the Northern countryside, producing works that take advantage of the sounds and rhythms of Northern English dialects.\n\nMeanwhile, the industrialising and urbanising cities of the North gave rise to many masterpieces of social realism. Elizabeth Gaskell was the first in a lineage of female realist writers from the North that later included Winifred Holtby, Catherine Cookson, Beryl Bainbridge and Jeanette Winterson. Many of the angry young men of post-war literature were Northern, and working-class life in the face of deindustrialisation is depicted in novels such as \"Room at the Top\" (1959), \"Billy Liar\" (1959), \"This Sporting Life\" (1960) and \"A Kestrel for a Knave\" (1968).\n\nTraditional folk music in Northern England is a combination of styles of England and Scotland – what is now called the Anglo-Scottish border ballad was once prevalent as far south as Lancashire. In the Middle Ages, much of Northern folk was accompanied by bagpipes, with styles including the Lancashire bagpipe, Yorkshire bagpipe and Northumbrian smallpipes. These disappeared in the early nineteenth century from the industrialising south of the region, but remain in the music of Northumbria. The British brass band tradition began in Northern England at around the same time: the dismissal of the Cheshire, Lancashire and Yorkshire military bands after the Napoleonic Wars, combined with the desire of industrial communities to better themselves, led to the founding of civilian bands. These bands provided entertainment at community events and led protest marches during the era of radical agitation. Although the style has since spread across much of Great Britain, brass bands remain a stereotype of the North, and the Whit Friday brass band contests draw hundreds of bands from across the UK and further afield.\n\nNorthern England also has a thriving popular music scene. Influential movements include Merseybeat from the Liverpool area, which produced The Beatles, Northern soul, which brought Motown to England, and Madchester, the precursor to the rave scene. Across the Pennines, Sheffield is the birthplace of influential electronic pop bands from Cabaret Voltaire to Pulp, the New Yorkshire indie rock movement of the 2000s gave the country the Kaiser Chiefs and the Arctic Monkeys, and Teesside has a rock scene stretching from Chris Rea to Maximo Park. The press frequently frames music stories and reviews in terms of cultural and class differences between North and South, notably in the 1960s rivalry between the Beatles and the Rolling Stones and the 1990s Battle of Britpop between Oasis and Blur.\n\nSport has been both one of the most unifying cultural forces in Northern England and, thanks to local rivalries such as the Lancashire–Yorkshire Roses rivalry, one of the most divisive. As huge numbers of people moved into recently-built cities with little cultural heritage, local sports teams offered the population a sense of place and identity that was otherwise absent.\n\nMany early Northern sports players were working class and needed to miss work to play, with their teams compensating them for lost wages. By contrast, Southern teams, drawing from the traditions of public schools and Oxbridge, put great emphasis on amateurism and the Southern-dominated governing bodies forbade payments to players. This tension shaped the sports of association football and cricket, and led to the schism between the two main forms of rugby. The North is also associated with the animal sports of dog racing with whippets, pigeon racing and ferret legging, although these are now far more popular in stereotype than in reality.\n\nIn recent years, the region has also become a major host of athletics events. Manchester hosted the 2002 Commonwealth Games, which left it a legacy of sporting facilities including the City of Manchester Stadium, Manchester Aquatics Centre and the National Cycling Centre, headquarters of British Cycling. The Grand Départ for the 2014 Tour de France was in Leeds, and every year since Yorkshire has hosted the Tour de Yorkshire cycling event, part of the UCI Europe Tour. Tyneside meanwhile hosts the Great North Run, the UK's biggest mass-participation sporting event and the most popular half marathon in the world.\n\nThe first football club in the UK was Sheffield F.C., founded in 1857. Early Northern football teams tended to adopt the Sheffield Rules rather than the Football Association Rules, but the two codes were merged in 1877. Many of the innovations of Sheffield Rules are now part of the global game, including corners, throw-ins, and free kicks for fouls.\n\nIn 1883 Blackburn Olympic, a team composed mainly of factory workers, became the first Northern team to win the FA Cup, and the next year Preston North End won an FA Cup match against London-based Upton Park. Upton Park protested that Preston had broken FA rules by paying their players. In response, Preston withdrew from the competition and fellow Lancashire clubs Burnley and Great Lever followed suit. The protest gathered momentum to the point where more than 30 clubs, predominantly from the North, announced that they would set up a rival British Football Association if the FA did not permit professionalism. A schism was avoided in July 1885 when professionalism was formally legalised in English football. The Football League was founded in 1888, and marked its independence from the London-based Football Association (FA) by establishing headquarters in Preston – the League retained a Northern identity even after it accepted several Southern teams into its ranks. Organised women's football followed as the workforces of majority-female factories of Northern England in the First World War entered the 1917–18 Tyne, Wear & Tees Munition Girls Cup – the world's first women's football tournament. However, the FA did not support women's football and banned it altogether in 1921. Intense local derbies between neighbouring teams mean that there is less of a North–South rivalry than in some other sports.\nMany of the powerhouses of English football came from the North – as of the 2017–18 season, of the 120 top-flight league titles since 1888, 80 (67%) have been won by teams based north of Crewe. Everton, Liverpool, Manchester United and, since 2001, Manchester City are among the mainstays of the Premier League, while teams like Blackburn Rovers, Middlesbrough, Newcastle United and Sunderland have had more inconsistent runs in recent years, regularly being promoted and relegated from the top flight. Northern England is also the birthplace of the largest proportion the country's top players – as of Euro 2016, 537 Northerners had played for the England team, compared to 266 Midlanders and 367 Southerners, and 15 of the 23 man squad for the 2018 World Cup were born in the region.\n\nThe Rugby Football Union, which enforced amateurism, suspended teams who compensated their players for missed work and injury, leading teams from Lancashire, Yorkshire and surrounding areas to split away in 1895 and form the Rugby Football League. Over time, the RFU and RFL adopted different rules and the two forms of the game – rugby union and rugby league – diverged. Rugby league's stronghold remains Northern England along the \"M62 corridor\" between Liverpool and Hull. As of the 2018 season, 11 of the 12 teams in the Super League (the highest level of rugby league in Europe) are from Northern England and the remaining one is from France, and the 12-team Championship below it has 9 Northern teams, one London team and two overseas teams.\n\nRugby union was not entirely driven from Northern England, and in the 1970s the region was home to several strong teams. The high-water mark of rugby union in Northern England was the 1979 New Zealand tour during which the English Northern Division was the only team to defeat the All Blacks. In the 21st century the region's club sides have become less popular, with association football, cricket and rugby league attracting more spectators and talent. In the 2017–18 season, Sale Sharks and Newcastle Falcons play in the English Premiership, whereas Yorkshire Carnegie, Doncaster R.F.C. and Rotherham R.U.F.C. play in the RFU Championship.\n\nCricket has a strong following in Northern England, and three counties are represented by first-class county cricket teams: Durham, Lancashire and Yorkshire. The Roses Match (named for the Red Rose of Lancaster and the White Rose of York) between Lancashire and Yorkshire is one of the hardest fought rivalries in the sport – the pride of both sides, and their determination not to lose, resulted in the teams developing a slow, stubborn and defensive style that proved unpopular elsewhere in the country. The London-based Marylebone Cricket Club, which controlled the game at the time, selected few Northern players for Test matches, and this was perceived as a snub to their playing style – the anger united Lancashire and Yorkshire against the South and helped cast a shared Northern identity that transcended the Roses rivalry. This divide was illustrated in the 1924 County Championship, when Yorkshire beat London-based Middlesex to claim the title. Surrey accused Yorkshire of scuffing the pitch and intimidating the bowlers, while the match with Middlesex was so vicious that the team threatened to never play in Yorkshire again. The Lancashire captain Jack Sharp on the other hand was quoted as saying \"I'm real glad a rose won it. Red or white, it doesn't matter.\" Durham are a recent addition to top-flight cricket, having only achieved first-class status in 1992, but have won the County Championship three times.\n\nAlthough Yorkshire and Lancashire were traditionally more relaxed about professionalism than other counties, cricket did not see the same regional schisms on the topic that rugby and football did – there were debates over amateur status in first-class cricket, but these tensions were given release in the Gentlemen v Players fixture. Nevertheless, the annual North v South games were among the most popular and competitive in the sport, running annually from 1849 until 1900 and intermittently thereafter.\n\nNorthern England, as the first area in the world to industrialise, was the birthplace of much modern political thought. Reports into the lives of the Northern working class, from Friedrich Engels' \"The Condition of the Working Class in England\" to George Orwell's \"The Road to Wigan Pier\", shaped Marxism and, more generally, socialism. Meanwhile, enterprise and trade at the North's ports influenced the birth of Manchester Liberalism, a \"laissez-faire\" free trade philosophy. Expounded by C. P. Scott and the \"Manchester Guardian\", the movement's greatest success was the repeal of the Corn Laws, protests against which had led to the 1819 Peterloo Massacre in Manchester.\nThe first Trades Union Congress was held in Manchester in 1868, and as of 2015 trade union membership in Northern England remained higher than in Southern England, although it is lower than in the other Home Nations. Since the Thatcher era, the Conservative Party have since struggled to gain support in the area. Today, Northern England is generally described as a stronghold of the Labour Party – although the Conservatives hold some rural seats, they have almost no urban seats and as of the 2016 local elections there are no Conservative councillors on Liverpool City Council, Manchester City Council, Newcastle City Council or Sheffield City Council. Historically the region was also a heartland for the Liberals, and between the 1980s and the 2010s their successors in the Liberal Democrats benefitted from Conservative unpopularity by positioning themselves as the centrist alternative to Labour in the North.\n\nAt the 2016 EU membership referendum, all three Northern England regions voted to leave, as did all English regions outside London. The largest Northern Remain vote was 60.4% in Manchester; the largest Leave vote was 69.9% in North East Lincolnshire. In total, the Leave vote in the Northern England regions was 55.9% – higher than in the Southern England regions and the other Home Nations, but lower than in the Midlands or the East of England. The Eurosceptic UK Independence Party (UKIP) positioned themselves as the main challenger to Labour in Northern constituencies, and came second in many at the 2015 general election. UKIP originally struggled in the region due to vote splitting with the far-right British National Party (BNP), who exploited racial tensions in the wake of the 2001 Bradford riots and other riots in Northern towns. In 2006, 40% of BNP voters lived in Northern England and both BNP MEPs elected at the 2009 European elections came from Northern constituencies. After 2013, BNP support in the region collapsed as most voters swung to UKIP. The Northern UKIP vote in turn collapsed following the EU referendum, with most UKIP voters returning to their former allegiances.\n\nCampaigns for regional autonomy for the North have seen little electoral support. Plans by Labour under Tony Blair to create devolved regional assemblies for the three Northern regions were abandoned after the government lost the 2004 North East England devolution referendum against a No vote of 78%. The regionalist Yorkshire Party and North East Party only hold seats at the local council level, and the Northern Party, which campaigned for a devolved Northern government with the power to make laws and full control of taxation and spending, was wound up in 2016.\n\nChristianity has been the largest religion in the region since the Early Middle Ages; its existence in Britain dates back to the late Roman era and the arrival of Celtic Christianity. The Holy Island of Lindisfarne played an essential role in the Christianisation of Northumbria, after Aidan from Connacht founded a monastery there as the first Bishop of Lindisfarne at the request of King Oswald. It is known for the creation of the Lindisfarne Gospels and remains a place of pilgrimage. Saint Cuthbert, a monk of Lindisfarne, was venerated from Nottinghamshire to Cumberland, and is today sometimes named the patron saint of Northern England. The Synod of Whitby saw Northumbria break from Celtic Christianity and return to the Roman Catholic church, as calculations of Easter and tonsure rules were brought into line with those of Rome.\n\nAfter the English Reformation Northern England became a centre of Catholicism, and Irish immigration increased its numbers further, especially in North West cities like Liverpool and Manchester. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the area underwent a religious revival that ultimately produced Primitive Methodism, and at its peak, in the 19th century, Methodism was the dominant faith in much of Northern England.\n\nAs of 2016, the list of places of worship registered for marriage for Northern England included at least 1,960 that are Methodist or Independent Methodist, 1,200 Roman Catholic, 370 United Reformed, 310 Baptist or Particular Baptist, 250 Jehovah's Witness and 240 Salvation Army, as well as many hundreds of churches from smaller denominations. \n\nIn the ecclesiastical administration of the Church of England the entire North is covered by the Province of York, which is represented by the Archbishop of York – the second-highest figure in the Church after the Archbishop of Canterbury. The unusual situation of having two archbishops at the top of Church hierarchy suggests that Northern England was seen as a \"sui generis\". Likewise, with the exception of parts of the Diocese of Shrewsbury and Diocese of Nottingham, the North is covered in Roman Catholic Church administration by the Province of Liverpool, represented by the Archbishop of Liverpool.\n\nSmall Jewish communities arose in Beverley, Doncaster, Grimsby, Lancaster, Newcastle, and York in the wake of the Norman Conquest but suffered massacres and pogroms, of which the largest was the York Massacre in 1190. Jews were forcibly banished from England by the 1290 Edict of Expulsion until the Resettlement of the Jews in England in the seventeenth century, and the first synagogue in the North appeared in Liverpool in 1753. Manchester also has a long-standing Jewish community: the now-demolished 1857 Manchester Reform Synagogue was the second Reform synagogue in the country, and Greater Manchester has the only eruv in the United Kingdom outside London. Traditionally, there is also a large Jewish presence in Gateshead. In total, there are 84 synagogues in Northern England registered for marriages.\n\nSpiritualism flourished in Northern England in the nineteenth century, in part as a backlash to the fundamentalist Primitive Methodist movement and in part driven by the influence of Owenist socialism. There remain 220 Spiritualist churches registered in the North, of which 40 identify as Christian Spiritualist.\n\nThe first mosque in the United Kingdom was founded by the convert Abdullah Quilliam in the Liverpool Muslim Institute in 1889. Today, there are around 500 mosques in Northern England. Indian religions are also represented: there are at least 45 gurdwaras, of which the largest is the Sikh Temple in Leeds, and 30 mandirs, of which the largest is Bradford Lakshmi Narayan Hindu Temple.\n\nTransport in the North has been shaped by the Pennines, creating strong north-south axes along each coast and an east-west axis across the moorland passes of the southern Pennines. Northern England is a centre of freight transport and handles around one third of all British cargo. Both passenger and freight links between Northern cities remain poor, which is a major weakness of the Northern economy.\n\nThe passenger transport executive (PTE) has become a major player in the organisation of public transport within Northern city regions; of the six PTEs in England, five (Transport for Greater Manchester, Merseytravel, Travel South Yorkshire, Nexus Tyne and Wear and West Yorkshire Metro) are located in the North. These coordinate bus services, local trains and light rail in their regions. Following the passage of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016, Transport for the North will become a statutory body in 2018, and will be given powers to coordinate services and offer integrated ticketing throughout the region.\n\nThe Preston By-pass, opened in 1958, was the first motorway in the UK, and today an extensive network connects the major cities of the North. The main western route through the North is the M6, part of a chain of motorways from London to Glasgow, while the main eastern motorway is the M1/A1(M), which runs as far north as Newcastle. The M62 links Liverpool, Manchester, Leeds and Hull across the Pennines. Other trans-Pennine roads are comparatively minor, and the lack of any dual-carriageway connection between the east and west coasts anywhere in England north of the M62 has been identified by the Department for Transport as a significant hindrance to the Northern economy. In many cases, modern roads still follow ancient routes: the M62 motorway effectively duplicates the Roman road between York and Chester, while the Great North Road, the stagecoach route from London to Scotland, became the modern A1 road.\n\nBuses are an important part of the Northern transport mix, with bus ridership above the England and Wales average in all three Northern regions. Many of the municipal bus companies were located in Northern England, and the region saw intense competition and bus wars following deregulation in the 1980s and 1990s. Increasing car ownership in the same era caused bus use to decline, although it remains higher than in most areas of the South.\n\nThe North of England pioneered rail transport. Milestones include the 1758 Middleton Railway in Leeds, the first railway authorised by Act of Parliament and the oldest continually operating in the world; the 1825 Stockton and Darlington Railway, the first public railway to use steam locomotives; and the 1830 Liverpool and Manchester Railway, the first modern main line. Today the region retains many of its original railway lines, including the East Coast and West Coast main lines and the Cross Country Route. Passenger numbers on Northern routes increased over 50% between 2004 and 2016, and Northern England handles over half of total UK rail freight, but infrastructure is poorly funded compared to Southern railways: railways in London received £5426 per resident in 2015 while those in the North East received just £223 per resident, and journeys between major cities are slow and overcrowded. To combat this, the Department of Transport has devolved many of its powers to Rail North, an alliance of local authorities from the Scottish Borders down to Staffordshire which manages the Northern Rail and TransPennine Express franchises that operate many routes in Northern England. Meanwhile, new build such as the Northern Hub around Manchester, High Speed 2 from Manchester and Leeds to London and Northern Powerhouse Rail from Liverpool to Hull and Newcastle is planned to increase capacity on important Northern routes and decrease travel times.\n\nThe first tram line in the United Kingdom was built in Birkenhead and opened on 30 August 1860. Trams turned out to be especially well suited for Northern cities, with their growing working-class suburbs, and by the turn of the century, most Northern towns had an extensive interconnected electric tram network. At the network's height, it was possible to travel entirely by tram from Liverpool Pier Head to the village of Summit, outside Rochdale, a distance of , and a gap of only separated the North-Western network from the West Yorkshire network. Starting in the 1930s, these were largely replaced by motor buses and trolley buses. With the closure of Sheffield Tramway in 1960 and Glasgow Tramway in 1962, Blackpool Tramway – popular as a tourist attraction as much as a means of transport – was left as the only public tram system in the UK until the Manchester Metrolink opened in 1992. Today there are four light rail systems in the North – Blackpool Tramway, Manchester Metrolink, Sheffield Supertram and Tyne & Wear Metro.\n\nManchester Airport serves as the main international hub for Northern England and is the busiest airport anywhere in the UK outside London, handling 27.8 million people in 2017. In total, there are seven international airports in the North; these are (in descending order of passenger traffic) Manchester, Newcastle, Liverpool John Lennon, Leeds Bradford, Doncaster Sheffield, Humberside and Durham Tees Valley. Many of these airports were developed during the boom in low-cost air travel during the early 2000s, but have suffered since the Great Recession – Durham Tees Valley is running at just 3% of its maximum capacity, and Blackpool Airport closed as an international airport in 2014. The devolution of Air Passenger Duty to Scotland represents a further possible threat to Northern English airports, allowing Scottish airports to offer cheaper flights than their English rivals. Few spoke flights operate between Northern airports and the national hubs at Heathrow and Gatwick, putting further strain on the smaller Northern airports and forcing connecting passengers to travel via continental European airports. The planned High Speed 2 station at Manchester Airport will offer direct high-speed services to London, allowing spare capacity at Manchester Airport to take some of the flights which currently serve busy London airports.\n\nThe first modern canal in England was Sankey Brook, opened in 1757 to connect Liverpool's ports to the St Helens coalfields. By 1777, the Grand Trunk Canal had opened, linking the rivers Mersey and Trent and making it possible for boats to travel directly from Liverpool on the west coast to Hull on the east coast. Manchester, inland, was connected to the Irish Sea by the Manchester Ship Canal in 1894, although the canal never saw the success that was hoped for. The North retains many navigable canals, including the Cheshire, North Pennine and South Pennine canal rings, although they are now used mostly for pleasure rather than transport – the Aire and Calder Navigation, which carries over 2 million tons of oil, sand and gravel per year, is a rare exception.\n\nMany Northern coastal towns were built on trade, and retain large sea ports. The Humber ports of Grimsby and Immingham (counted as a single port for statistical purposes) are the busiest in the UK in terms of tonnage, serving 59.1 million tons as of 2015, and Teesport and the Port of Liverpool are also among the country's largest – in total, 35% of British freight was shipped through Northern ports. Roll-on/roll-off ferries offer passenger and freight connections to the Isle of Man and Ireland along the west coast, while east coast ports connect to Belgium and the Netherlands, although Northern ports handle only a small percentage of the UK's vehicle traffic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31701494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31701494", "title": "Osama bin Laden's house in Khartoum", "text": "Osama bin Laden's house in Khartoum\n\nOsama bin Laden's house in Khartoum is a pink and beige brick-and-stucco three-storey house on Al-Mashtal Street in the affluent Al-Riyadh quarter of Khartoum, Sudan, where Osama bin Laden lived between 1991 and 1996.\n\nBin Laden arrived in Sudan in 1991 after falling out with Saudi Arabia's ruling family over their support for the United States in the Gulf War against Iraq. He purchased this property and another in Soba, a one storey unfurnished mud house on the western bank overlooking the Blue Nile where he spent many weekends with his family. He lived in Sudan with his four wives, four sons and daughter. Although extremely wealthy, both houses were described as very modest on purpose to adhere to his ideals of humble living. During his time in the country he heavily invested in the infrastructure and in agriculture and businesses. When he lived there he was more known as a \"walking bank\" than a successful organizer of terrorist operations. Hassan al-Turabi allowed bin Laden to live in Sudan on the condition that he would invest in Sudan. It is estimated that he may have invested US $50 million in Sudan. His investments consisted of a bank, trading firm, Wadi al Aqiq, construction industry, which built roads throughout North Sudan, Militant activity of Osama bin Laden and the largest of all was the Al-Damazin Farms which employed 4,000 people, near the Upper Nile region close to the Ethiopian border. All of these activities he managed with his nine-room office manned by veteran business men supported by 400 Sudanese men at a salary of $200 a month.\n\nAlthough the house was heavily guarded with guards armed with machine guns on the ground floor, bin Laden once missed an assassination attempt at this house attempted by Takfiris, an ultra extremist group who considered bin Laden's ways as heretic. Following this attack, his house was made more secure with more guards and trenches dug in front and back of the house. This caused inconvenience to his neighbours who then wished that bin Laden would leave their neighbourhood. After living in Sudan for more than 4 years, he left Sudan in May 1996, bitterly disappointed with political developments in the country he had invested so much in. The property has remained vacant since bin Laden was expelled from the country in 1996 because tenants feared that the United States might bomb it. However, it is also reported that China made it their Embassy.\n\nRichard Miniter describes the house as follows: \n\nOn El Meshtal Street, a visitor finds bin Laden's walled compound. The exterior walls are pink and faded to filth. The house is not the most opulent in this Sudanese version of Bel Air. It is a vaguely Art Deco affair, three stories high, with a ridge running up its front. Everything about the exterior of the house indicates comfort. An aluminium-frame walkway topped with thin wooden slats assures shade from the driveway to the front door. Air conditioners hum.\n\nThe house was secured with a compound wall, painted pink but faded. At the sides of the house are a series of walled-in compounds. This house was much more spacious and comfortable than the houses he lived in Afghanistan and Pakistan and bin Laden kept his office on second floor. He would even meet people in the open yard in front of his house. He also owned guest houses across the street which he purchased as homes for his top officers.\n\nIt is also said that bin Laden lived a very simple life. He owned no vehicles, and used no modern home appliances such as a refrigerator or air conditioner. He was reportedly also involved in experimental farming including Al-Damazin Farms. Today, the gate to bin Laden's old house is tightly shut, and the unkempt garden and wild tree branches growing over the wall stand out in such a wealthy, well-maintained part of the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54138895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54138895", "title": "Qinling Huaihe Line", "text": "Qinling Huaihe Line\n\nThe Qinling Huaihe line () is a reference line used by geographers to distinguish between Northern and Southern China, corresponding roughly to the 33rd parallel. Qinling refers to the Qinling Mountains, and Huaihe refers to the Huai River. It divides China into two regions that differ from each other in climate, culture, lifestyle and cuisine. \n\nRegions north of the line tend to be temperate or frigid, with snow being a regular feature in winter. Regions south of the line tend to be subtropical and tropical. The south is hotter and wetter than the north.\n\nHistorically, the North was more developed (employing the latest technology of that time) than the South. But much has changed in recent times, and half of the most developed Tier 1 cities of China are in the South. It was also in the Ming dynasty that the economy of the South outpaced that of the North.\n\nNowadays, most people acknowledge that divisions within Chinese society do not fall neatly into \"north and south\" divisions, because of the significant overlap in many regions of China.\n\nQinling Huaihe line was first drawn by Chinese geographer Zhang Xiangwen in 1908, defining north China as anything above a line running along the Qinling Mountains in the west and the Huai River the east.\n\nIn the 1950s, Premier Zhou Enlai used the line to create a subsidized district heating system only in the colder north, a system still in effect today. This has also led to the north to suffer from heavy air pollution due to coal heating plants, but the south to suffer from lack of heating during the winter months.\n\nThe line also represents the 800mm annual precipitation line of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "29707591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29707591", "title": "Robert O. Trout", "text": "Robert O. Trout\n\nRobert Oren Trout (August 4, 1904 – March 15, 1995) was an American sociologist whose principal academic career was based at Louisiana Tech University in Ruston, Louisiana, where he was the longtime chairman of the Social Sciences Department.\n\nThe oldest of three sons of Otis James Trout (1877-1953) and the former Minnie A. Railey (1873-1961), Trout was born in Girard in Richland Parish but reared in Union Parish north of Ruston. He graduated from Marion High School in the town of Marion. and procured his Bachelor of Arts in history in 1938 from Louisiana Tech and his Master of Arts in education in 1942 from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. He received his Ph.D from LSU on August 6, 1954. His dissertation is entitled \"The People of the North Louisiana Hill Country,\" a reference to the 19th century settlers of his native region. In 1962 and 1967, respectively, Trout wrote reviews of \"Canadian Society\" by Bernard R. Blishen, Frank E. Jones, Kaspar D. Nagele, and John Porter, and \"Poverty in the Affluent Society\" by Hanna H. Meissner, both for the \"Social Science Quarterly.\" a publication of the Southwestern Social Science Association.\n\nTrout began his career in Arkansas public schools, for which he taught for nine years. From 1936 to 1939, he taught the seventh grade and served as a principal in Minden in Webster Parish west of Ruston. He then served from 1942 to 1946 in the United States Navy during World War II, stationed in the Central Pacific in Hawaii and the Caroline Islands. Thereafter, Trout returned to Minden as a school principal but in 1947 joined the Louisiana Tech faculty with responsibilities in geography and sociology. He retired effective September 22, 1976. Trout held membership in Alpha Kappa Delta, the honor society for sociology, and Phi Delta Kappa, an organization of educators. He was also affiliated with the Southwestern Sociological Association, the Southwest Social Sciences Association, and the Lions International.\n\nHe is included in a past edition of \"Who's Who in the American Southwest\" and \"Who's Who in America.\" To accommodate the beginning of desegregation, Trout served on the Lincoln Parish Bi-Racial Committee. He also was a board member of the Ruston Housing Authority. In 1961, Trout was named the Louisiana delegate to the White House Conference on Aging. He frequently lectured at civic clubs and within the education system, often peppering his talks with sociological statistics that he had gathered and researched.\n\nOn April 10, 1952, Trout married the former Rita Virginia Galloway (1916–2013), a native of Arcadia in Bienville Parish, who was divorced from Rawson Fisher Stovall, Jr. (1913-1946), of Dodson in Winn Parish. Stovall had died of a heart attack while enlisting in the United States Army at the induction center in San Antonio, Texas. The secretary to the president of Louisiana Tech from 1940 until her retirement in 1970, Mrs. Trout had two daughters from her first marriage. In a ceremony at the First Baptist Church of Ruston, Mary Virginia Stovall in 1960 wed John Michael Cage (born May 1936), later a urologist in Monroe, Louisiana. The second Stovall daughter was Barbara Sue Bowman; both Mary and Barbara predeceased their mother. Robert and Virginia Trout are interred at Greenwood Cemetery in Ruston.\n\nTrout is honored by the website Chalkboard Champions.\n"}
{"id": "22579982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22579982", "title": "Saka Haphong", "text": "Saka Haphong\n\nSaka Haphong (also Mowdok Taung or Tlang Moy) is a peak in Bangladesh, often considered the highest point of the country, with an elevation of 1,052 metres (3,451 ft). Located on the Bangladesh–Burma border, it is situated between Thanchi, Bandarban, Bangladesh and the Chin State of Burma.\n\nSaka Haphong is not officially the highest peak of Bangladesh, but maps and other data indicate there are no higher peaks within the country. In February 2006 a GPS reading of 1,064 metres was recorded on this summit by English adventurer Ginge Fullen. The location he recorded, 21°47′11″N 92°36′36″E / 21.78639°N 92.61°E, accurately matches the location given by Russian topographic mapping and SRTM data, although these sources show its height to be slightly lower, at 1,052 metres. Recently two trekking clubs counted the height of Saka Haphong as 3,488 and 3,461 feet respectively. Any of these figures would make it the highest mountain in Bangladesh, exceeding the height of Keokradong which is 3,172 feet high.\n\n"}
{"id": "474419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=474419", "title": "Spatial scale", "text": "Spatial scale\n\nIn sciences such as physics, geography, astronomy, meteorology and statistics, the term scale or spatial scale is used for describing or classifying with large approximation the extent or size of a length, distance or area studied or described. For instance, in physics an object or phenomenon can be called microscopic if too small to be visible. In climatology, a micro-climate is a climate which might occur in a mountain, valley or near a lake shore, whereas in statistics a megatrend is a political, social, economical, environmental or technological trend which involves the whole planet or is supposed to last a very large amount of time.\n\nIn physics, the concept of scale is closely related to the more accurate concept of order of magnitude.\n\nThese divisions are somewhat arbitrary; where, on this table, \"mega-\" is assigned global scope, it may only apply continentally or even regionally in other contexts. The interpretations of \"meso-\" and \"macro-\" must then be adjusted accordingly.\n\n"}
{"id": "18587014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18587014", "title": "Street network", "text": "Street network\n\nA street network is a system of interconnecting lines and points (called \"edges\" and \"nodes\" in network science) that represent a system of streets or roads for a given area. A street network provides the foundation for network analysis; for example, finding the best route or creating service areas.\n\nThey greatly affect in-town movement and traffic. Street networks can become very complex in cities. Street networks are very often localized, because there is little non-highway transportation from town to town. The U.S. Highway System is like a street network, but it is national, and consists of highways instead of streets and roads.\n\n"}
{"id": "4099489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4099489", "title": "Telephone numbers in Macau", "text": "Telephone numbers in Macau\n\nTelephone numbers in Macau are eight-digit numbers. Fixed land line numbers starts with 2, and Mobile (cellular) phone numbers starts with 6. Calls from Macau to mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Portugal are treated as international calls.\n\nThe telephone number for emergency services – Police, Fire Service and Ambulance – is 999 for all telephone lines. In addition to 999, two more emergency hotline numbers 110 (mainly for tourists from mainland China) and 112 (mainly for tourists from overseas) can be dialed, however calls made to 110 and 112 are redirected to the 999 call centre.\n\nPrior to 1999 telephone regulation was under the Direcção dos Serviços de Correios e Telecomunicações (CTT) or Posts, Telegraphs and Telephones under the Secretary for Transport and Public Works.\n\nSince 1999 telephone numbers are under the responsibility of the Direcção dos Serviços de Regulação de Telecomunicações (DSRT) or Bureau of Telecommunications Regulation under the Secretariat for Transport and Public Works.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45346", "title": "Theories of urban planning", "text": "Theories of urban planning\n\nPlanning theory is the body of scientific concepts, definitions, behavioral relationships, and assumptions that define the body of knowledge of urban planning. There are eight procedural theories of planning that remain the principal theories of planning procedure today: the rational-comprehensive approach, the incremental approach, the transactive approach, the communicative approach, the advocacy approach, the equity approach, the radical approach, and the humanist or phenomenological approach.\n\nThe modern origins of urban planning lie in the movement for urban reform that arose as a reaction against the disorder of the industrial city in the mid-19th century. Urban planning exists in various forms and it addresses many different issues. Urban planning can include urban renewal, by adapting urban planning methods to existing cities suffering from decline. Alternatively, it can concern the massive challenges associated with urban growth, particularly in the Global South.\n\nIn the late 20th century, the term sustainable development has come to represent an ideal outcome in the sum of all planning goals.\n\nFollowing the rise of empiricism during the industrial revolution, the rational planning movement (1890–1960) emphasized the improvement of the built environment based on key spatial factors. Examples of these factors include: exposure to direct sunlight, movement of vehicular traffic, standardized housing units, and proximity to green-space. To identify and design for these spatial factors, rational planning relied on a small group of highly specialized technicians, including architects, urban designers, and engineers. Other, less common, but nonetheless influential groups included governmental officials, private developers, and landscape architects. Through the strategies associated with these professions, the rational planning movement developed a collection of techniques for quantitative assessment, predictive modeling, and design. Due to the high level of training required to grasp these methods, however, rational planning fails to provide an avenue for public participation. In both theory and practice, this shortcoming opened rational planning to claims of elitism and social insensitivity.\n\nAlthough it can be seen as an extension of the sort of civic pragmatism seen in Oglethorpe's plan for Savannah or William Penn's plan for Philadelphia, the roots of the rational planning movement lie in Britain's Sanitary Movement (1800-1890). During this period, advocates such as Charles Booth and Ebenezer Howard argued for central organized, top-down solutions to the problems of industrializing cities. In keeping with the rising power of industry, the source of planning authority in the Sanitary Movement included both traditional governmental offices and private development corporations. In London and its surrounding suburbs, cooperation between these two entities created a network of new communities clustered around the expanding rail system. Two of the best examples of these communities are Letchworth in Hertfordshire and Hampstead Garden Suburb in Greater London. In both communities, architects Raymond Unwin and Richard Barry Parker exemplify the elite, top-down approach associated with the rational planning movement by using the planning process to establish a uniform landscape and architectural style based on an idealized medieval village.\n\nFrom Britain, the rational planning movement spread out across the world. In areas undergoing industrialization themselves, British influences combined with local movements to create unique reinterpretations of the rational planning process. In Paris, architect Le Corbusier adopted rational planning's centralized approach and added to it a dedication to quantitative assessment and a love for the automobile. Together, these two factors yielded the influential planning aesthetic known as \"Tower in the Park\". In the United States, Frank Lloyd Wright similarly identified vehicular mobility as a principal planning metric. However, where Le Corbusier emphasized design through quantitative assessment of spatial processes, Wright identified the insights of local public technicians as the key design criteria. Wright's Broadacre City provides a vivid expression of what this landscape might look like.\n\nThroughout both the United States and Europe, the rational planning movement declined in the later half of the 20th century. The reason for the movement's decline was also its strength. By focusing so much on design by technical elites, rational planning lost touch with the public it hoped to serve. Key events in this decline in the United States include the demolition of the Pruitt-Igoe housing project in St. Louis and the national backlash against urban renewal projects, particularly urban expressway projects.\n\nAfter the “fall” of blueprint planning in the late 1950s and early 1960s, the synoptic model began to emerge as a dominant force in planning. Lane (2005) describes synoptic planning as having four central elements:\n\nPublic participation was first introduced into this model and it was generally integrated into the system process described above. However, the problem was that the idea of a single public interest still dominated attitudes, effectively devaluing the importance of participation because it suggests the idea that the public interest is relatively easy to find and only requires the most minimal form of participation.\n\nBlueprint and synoptic planning both employ what is called the rational paradigm of planning. The rational model is perhaps the most widely accepted model among planning practitioners and scholars, and is considered by many to be the orthodox view of planning. As its name clearly suggests, the goal of the rational model is to make planning as rational and systematic as possible. Proponents of this paradigm would generally come up with a list of steps that the planning process can be at least relatively neatly sorted out into and that planning practitioners should go through in order when setting out to plan in virtually any area. As noted above, this paradigm has clear implications for public involvement in planning decisions.\n\nParticipatory planning is an urban planning paradigm that emphasizes involving the entire community in the strategic and management processes of urban planning; or, community-level planning processes, urban or rural. It is often considered as part of community development. Participatory planning aims to harmonize views among all of its participants as well as prevent conflict between opposing parties. In addition, marginalized groups have an opportunity to participate in the planning process.\n\nBeginning in the late 1950s and early 1960s, critiques of the rational paradigm began to emerge and formed into several different schools of planning thought. The first of these schools is Lindblom’s incrementalism. Lindblom describes planning as “muddling through” and thought that practical planning required decisions to be made incrementally. This incremental approach meant choosing from small number of policy approaches that can only have a small number consequences and are firmly bounded by reality, constantly adjusting the objectives of the planning process and using multiple analyses and evaluations. Lane (2005) explains the public involvement implications of this philosophy. Though this perspective of planning could be considered a large step forward in that it recognizes that there are number of “public interests” and because it provides room for the planning process to be less centralized and incorporate the voices other than those of planners, it in practice would only allow for the public to be involved in a minimal, more reactive rather than proactive way.\n\nThe mixed scanning model, developed by Etzioni, takes a similar, but slightly different approach. Etzioni (1968) suggested that organizations plan on two different levels: the tactical and the strategic. He posited that organizations could accomplish this by essentially scanning the environment on multiple levels and then choose different strategies and tactics to address what they found there. While Lindblom’s approach only operated on the functional level Etzioni argued, the mixed scanning approach would allow planning organizations to work on both the functional and more big-picture oriented levels. Lane explains though, that this model does not do much more at improving public involvement since the planner or planning organization is still at its focus and since its goal is not necessarily to achieve consensus or reconcile differing points of view on a particular subject.\n\nBy the late 1960s and early 1970s, planners began to look for new approaches because as happened nearly a decade before, it was realized that the current models were not necessarily sufficient. As had happened before, a number of different models emerged. Lane (2005) notes that it is most useful to think of these model as emerging from a social transformation planning tradition as opposed to a social guidance one, so the emphasis is more bottom-up in nature than it is top-down.\n\nTransactive planning was a radical break from previous models. Instead of considering public participation as method that would be used in addition to the normal training planning process, participation was a central goal. For the first time, the public was encouraged to take on an active role in the policy setting process, while the planner took on the role of a distributor of information and a feedback source. Transactive planning focuses on interpersonal dialogue that develops ideas, which will be turned into action. One of the central goals is mutual learning where the planner gets more information on the community and citizens become more educated about planning issues.\n\nFormulated in the 1960s by lawyer and planning scholar Paul Davidoff, the advocacy planning model takes the perspective that there are large inequalities in the political system and in the bargaining process between groups that result in large numbers of people unorganized and unrepresented in the process. It concerns itself with ensuring that all people are equally represented in the planning process by advocating for the interests of the underprivileged and seeking social change. Again, public participation is a central tenet of this model. A plurality of public interests is assumed, and the role of planner is essentially the one as a facilitator who either advocates directly for underrepresented groups directly or encourages them to become part of the process.\n\nRadical planning is a stream of urban planning which seeks to manage development in an equitable and community-based manner. The seminal text to the radical planning movement is \"Foundations for a Radical Concept in Planning\" (1973), by Stephen Grabow and Allen Heskin. Grabow and Heskin provided a critique of planning as elitist, centralizing and change-resistant, and proposed a new paradigm based upon systems change, decentralization, communal society, facilitation of human development and a consideration of ecology. Grab ow and He-skin were joined by \"Head of Department of Town Planning\" from the Polytechnic of the South Bank Shean McConnell, and his 1981 work \"Theories for Planning\".\n\nIn 1987 John Friedman entered the fray with \"Planning in the Public Domain: From Knowledge to Action\", promoting a radical planning model based on “decolonization”, “democratization”, “self-empowerment” and “reaching out”. Friedman described this model as an “agropolitan development” paradigm, emphasising the re-localisation of primary production and manufacture. In “Toward a Non-Euclidian Mode of Planning\" (1993) Friedman further promoted the urgency of decentralizing planning, advocating a planning paradigm that is normative, innovative, political, transactive and based on a Social learning approach to knowledge and policy.\n\nThe bargaining model views planning as the result of give and take on the part of a number of interests who are all involved in the process. It argues that this bargaining is the best way to conduct planning within the bounds of legal and political institutions. The most interesting part of this theory of planning is that makes public participation the central dynamic in the decision-making process. Decisions are made first and foremost by the public, and the planner plays a more minor role.\n\nThe communicative approach to planning is perhaps the most difficult to explain. It focuses on using communication to help different interests in the process understand each other. The idea is that each individual will approach a conversation with his or her own subjective experience in mind and that from that conservation shared goals and possibilities will emerge. Again, participation plays a central role under this model. The model seeks to include as a broad range of voice to enhance the debate and negotiation that is supposed to form the core of actual plan making. In this model, participation is actually fundamental to the planning process happening. Without the involvement of concerned interests there is no planning. Bent Flyvbjerg and Tim Richardson have developed a critique of the communicative approach and an alternative theory based on an understanding of power and how it works in planning.\nLooking at each of these models it becomes clear that participation is not only shaped by the public in a given area or by the attitude of the planning organization or planners that work for it. In fact, public participation is largely influenced by how planning is defined, how planning problems are defined, the kinds of knowledge that planners choose to employ and how the planning context is set. Though some might argue that is too difficult to involve the public through transactive, advocacy, bargaining and communicative models because transportation is some ways more technical than other fields, it is important to note that transportation is perhaps unique among planning fields in that its systems depend on the interaction of a number of individuals and organizations.\n\nPrior to 1950, Urban Planning was seldom considered a unique profession in Canada. There were, and are, of course, differences from country to country. For example, the UK's Royal Town Planning Institute was created as a professional organisation in 1914 and given a Royal Charter in 1959. Town planning focused on top-down processes by which the urban planner created the plans. The planner would know architecture, surveying, or engineering, bringing to the town planning process ideals based on these disciplines. They typically worked for national or local governments. Urban planners were seen as generalists, capable of integrating the work of other disciplines into a coherent plan for whole cities or parts of cities. A good example of this kind of planner was Lewis Keeble and his standard textbook, \"Principles and Practice of Town and Country Planning\", published in 1951.\n\nStrategic Urban Planning over past decades have witnessed the metamorphosis of the role of the urban planner in the planning process. More citizens calling for democratic planning & development processes have played a huge role in allowing the public to make important decisions as part of the planning process. Community organizers and social workers are now very involved in planning from the grassroots level. The term advocacy planning was coined by Paul Davidoff in his influential 1965 paper, \"Advocacy and Pluralism in Planning\" which acknowledged the political nature of planning and urged planners to acknowledge that their actions are not value-neutral and encouraged minority and under represented voices to be part of planning decisions. Benveniste argued that planners had a political role to play and had to bend some truth to power if their plans were to be implemented.\n\nDevelopers have also played huge roles in development, particularly by planning projects. Many recent developments were results of large and small-scale developers who purchased land, designed the district and constructed the development from scratch. The Melbourne Docklands, for example, was largely an initiative pushed by private developers to redevelop the waterfront into a high-end residential and commercial district.\n\nRecent theories of urban planning, espoused, for example by Salingaros see the city as an adaptive system that grows according to process similar to those of plants. They say that urban planning should thus take its cues from such natural processes. Such theories also advocate participation by inhabitants in the design of the urban environment, as opposed to simply leaving all development to large-scale construction firms.\n\nIn the process of creating an urban plan or urban design, carrier-infill is one mechanism of spatial organization in which the city's figure and ground components are considered separately. The urban figure, namely buildings, are represented as total possible building volumes, which are left to be designed by architects in following stages. The urban ground, namely in-between spaces and open areas, are designed to a higher level of detail. The carrier-infill approach is defined by an urban design performing as the carrying structure that creates the shape and scale of the spaces, including future building volumes that are then infilled by architects' designs. The contents of the carrier structure may include street pattern, landscape architecture, open space, waterways, and other infrastructure. The infill structure may contain zoning, building codes, quality guidelines, and Solar Access based upon a solar envelope. Carrier-Infill urban design is differentiated from complete urban design, such as in the monumental axis of Brasília, in which the urban design and architecture were created together.\n\nIn carrier-infill urban design or urban planning, the negative space of the city, including landscape, open space, and infrastructure is designed in detail. The positive space, typically building site for future construction, are only represented as unresolved volumes. The volumes are representative of the total possible building envelope, which can then be infilled by individual architects.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "4300486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4300486", "title": "Émile-Félix Gautier", "text": "Émile-Félix Gautier\n\nÉmile-Félix Gautier or Gauthier (19 October 1864 – 16 January 1940) was a French geographer.\n\nGautier was born in Clermont-Ferrand. His studies focused on northern Africa, especially Algeria, the Sahara desert and the territories of French Africa. He also conducted research in the French colony of Madagascar. He died, aged 75, in Pontivy (Saint-Pierre-de-Quiberon).\n\nDuring his career, he taught classes at the \"École supérieure des lettres\" in Algiers, and was also a director of education in Madagascar. In 1922 he became a member of the \"Académie des sciences d'outre-mer\".\n\n\n"}
