{"id": "5605402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5605402", "title": "Abdulrab Muhammad Muhammad Ali al-Sayfi", "text": "Abdulrab Muhammad Muhammad Ali al-Sayfi\n\nAbdulrab Muhammad Muhammad Ali al-Sayfi (Arabic: ) a Yemeni, became wanted in 2002, by the United States Department of Justice's FBI, which was then seeking information about his identity and whereabouts. He was identified as a known associate of the Yemen cell leader, Fawaz Yahya al-Rabeei.\n\nHe is no longer listed by the FBI on their \"Seeking Information\" lists.\n\nOn February 11, 2002, al-Sayfi was named in a suspected Yemen plot, for which he was among 17 suspected terrorists (3 days later reduced to 11 suspects) were added to the FBI's third major \"wanted\" list, the \"Seeking Information\" list.\n\nBy 2006, his details had been removed and archived from the FBI's current main wanted pages.\n\nWhether foiled, aborted, or merely incorrect specific intelligence, the February 12, 2002 attack never occurred. However, other attacks and plots in Yemen soon followed.\n"}
{"id": "31486111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31486111", "title": "Age fraud in association football", "text": "Age fraud in association football\n\nAge fraud is age fabrication or the use of false documentation to gain an advantage over opponents. In football, it is common amongst players belonging to nations where records are not easily verifiable. The media often refer to the player with false documentation as an \"age-cheat\".\n\nThere are several reasons why players choose to use false documentation. In countries that could be considered poor, European scouts are looking for young talented players to sign for a European club. The players know that there is a lesser chance of being signed if they are, for example, 23 years old as opposed to 17 years old as there would be less time for the club to develop the player.\n\nFIFA say that \"over-age players have been wrongly entered into various youth competitions, often benefiting from an unfair advantage due to their greater physical maturity compared to players of the proper age.\"\n\nIn some cases, it is possible for the player not to know their own date of birth and make an approximate guess when it comes to gaining official documents.\n\nOne of the best known examples of a player falsifying documentations is Cameroon's international football defender Tobie Mimboe who held several documents during the course of his career that indicated he became younger as time went by.\n\nIn 1989 Nigeria's youth national teams were banned by FIFA for fielding over-age players in FIFA-organised youth tournaments. The birth dates of three players at the 1988 Olympics were different than the ones used by those players at previous tournaments. The resulting ban lasted for two years and Nigeria was also stripped of its right to host the 1991 FIFA World Youth Championship.\n\nSouth African journalist Thomas Kwenaite uncovered several \"age-cheats\" representing South Africa who participated in an Under-15 age group tournament hosted in France. The captain of that side was a 24-year-old third-year University student from Port Elizabeth. After revealing the age of the player, the player's father took Kwenaite to the South African press ombudsman for \"slander\" before withdrawing his complaint after it was found that school records show that the player would have started school aged 2 years old. Kwenaite also claims that he was told that he was \"unpatriotic\" for reporting the story.\n\nIn late 1999, Anthony Kojo Williams was appointed as head of the Nigeria Football Federation. He lasted less than three months in the job and was dismissed because, in NFF board member Zaria Sani's words \"he has failed to carry the other board members along\" In the 2010 BBC World service documentary \"Africa Kicks\", Williams stated that the Nigerian Government were \"afraid of change\". He went on to say, \"I don't see Nigerian football getting out of the quagmire, the problem it is in today is because it [corruption] is getting deeper and deeper and deeper. From time to time we get flashes where we do well in some competition with overage players and we celebrate. That was one of the issues I looked at, we can't keep using overage players. We use over-age players for junior championships, I know that. Why not say it? It's the truth. We always cheat. It's a fact. When you cheat, you deprive the young stars that are supposed to play in these competitions their rights.\"\n\nIn 2003, Kenya's Under-17 national team were dissolved by the Kenyan Government after some players revealed themselves to be over 18 years of age. The same year, Ghana's Deputy Youth and Sports Minister Joe Aggrey said he wished to stop age cheats.\n\nIn 2009, Nigerian journalist Adokiye Amiesimaka accused the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) of being complicit with age-cheats because it gave the nation a competitive advantage. He had what he considered to be proof that some players were overage but the NFF were not interested in taking his complaint seriously.\n\nIn December 2010, the Senegal Football Federation withdrew Diawandou Diagne, Hervé Diédhiou and Samba Diallo from their under-17 national team after it was found they were overage following an MRI scan.\n\nIn February 2011, Ivorian football manager and SuperSport television pundit Mamadou Gaye responded to a question asking who he thought would win the 2011 U-17 World Cup with \"...any of the four team representing us [Africa] in the world cup U17 can win the trophee (sic), because at that level we like cheating on our age.\"\n\nThe Asian Football Confederation ejected DPR Korea, Tajikistan and Iraq from the 2008 AFC U-16 Championship after qualifying, and Cambodia, Macau, Bangladesh, Tajikistan, Bhutan and Kyrgyzstan were ejected from the qualifying after being found to have fielded over-age players, while Yemen were ejected from the tournament for fielding an overage player.\n\nSixteen players were banned by AFC in 2000 and eight were banned in the 2010 AFC U-16 Championship.\n\nAFC introduced age detection methods in its age group competitions in 2000.\n\nDave Bowler, author of \"Winning Isn't Everything: Biography of Sir Alf Ramsey\", claims that Englishman Alf Ramsey forged documents so that his date of birth changed from 1920 to 1922. Bowler alleges that Ramsey feared that come the end of the Second World War, he would be considered too old to be offered a professional contract.\n\nMatt Brown of Sherington Veterans claimed to be 37. this was found to be false as be had doctored his birth certificate and was in fact 42. \n\nIn the scandal known as the Cachirules, all of Mexico's international teams were banned for two years by FIFA from international competition in 1988 when the Under-20 national team was proven to consciously field several over aged players.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, many documents containing birth details of Spanish citizens were destroyed. Many South Americans used the situation to their advantage and claimed that their parents were of Spanish origin in the hope that they could start a new life in Spain or become professional players in Spain.\n\nBrazilian Carlos Alberto de Oliveira Júnior won the 2003 FIFA World Youth Championship using fake documents to claim that he was born on 24 January 1983. Because of this, he was banned for 360 days from football.\n\nAn Ecuadorian footballer, real name Ángel Cheme, played the majority of his professional career as Gonzalo Chila, which was the real name of a player three years his junior whom he had met when they both had trials at a local club, thus enabling him to play in age-restricted matches for three years after he was entitled to do so; he was eventually suspended for two years.\n\nThe mandatory use of Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was introduced by FIFA in 2009 for the FIFA Under-17 World Cup to help ascertain whether players are over age or not.\n\nMRI is considered to be 99% accurate until the age of 17, after which it becomes harder for medical professionals to calculate a person's age. Professor Jiri Dvorak of FIFA said: \"The efficiency stops at 17 and it's just pure coincidence that Fifa made their competition an under-17 event\". Every bone in the arm and leg has an end plate from which bones grow. When the growth is completed (usually around the age of 17-18), then this end plate disappears on the MRI scans. Dvorak concedes that the scan results \"will be unjust to 1% of all examined players\".\n\nThe researchers had classified the scans into 6 grading system, as follows:\n\nSource:\n\nOf the 429 MRI done by the Asian Football Confederation in 2007, 10 players (or 2.7%) were found to be over the age of 16 years in an otherwise Under-15 tournament. In 2008, one out of the 116 MRI conducted had full fusion.\n\nNot everybody was pleased by the introduction of MRI, Nigeria had lost 15 players after they were proven to be over-age. Nigeria's Football Federation President Sani Lulu said: \"I’ll not use the MRI to disqualify my players.\" He felt that FIFA had sprung their decision to use MRI upon the nations.\n\nLulu wanted to invite the parents of the national under-17 players to verify their sons' ages. Nigerian Sports Minister Sani Ndanusa dismissed the parent verification system and stated the \"whole world has gone digital and we're following suit. We're no longer in the analogue era.\"\n\nLulu stated that NFF did not need to scan players as it wasn't in the competition's rules and regulations. Ndanusa stated: \"FIFA wants MRI scans used and we're going to adhere to that, simple.\"\n\nFor the same tournament, the Gambia Football Association had scanned 53 of its players and \"few\" failed. It was suggested that \"two or three\" whom the MRI scan had revealed to be overage were participants at the 2009 African Under-17 Championship.\n\nIn 2011, the Confederation of African Football (CAF) enforced the use of MRI for the 2011 African Under-17 Championship.\n\nIn July 2013, sixteen-year-old United States-born Abuchi Obinwa failed an MRI test when undergoing assessment to represent the Nigeria U17 team at the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup.\n\nIn August 2016, it was reported that 26 Nigeria U17 players had failed MRI tests prior to their match against Niger U17's.\n"}
{"id": "6584443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6584443", "title": "Akiek people", "text": "Akiek people\n\nThe Akiek are an ethnic and linguistic group in Tanzania and Kenya, living in the Arusha Region in northern Tanzania and in southern Kenya, with an estimated population of 3,700 people. The Akiek language is said to be a moribund language: only a few elderly speakers are left. The Akiek in Tanzania now speak Maasai, and those in Kenya speak Kikuyu.\n\nThe Akiek are a subgroup of the Ogiek or Okiek, who intermarried and lost contact with the core of the Ogiek. The terms Akiek and Okiek are sometimes used interchangeably and confusingly. The correct name of the original people is Ogiek.\n\n"}
{"id": "39228604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39228604", "title": "Ambassador International", "text": "Ambassador International\n\nAmbassador International, a division of Emerald House Group, is a Christian publishing company founded in Belfast, Northern Ireland, in 1980 by Samuel Lowry. \nIn 1995, the United States office opened in Greenville, South Carolina. Today, the UK office publishes an average of twenty-five titles per year and the US office publishes an average of sixty titles, including fiction.\n\nAmbassador International published the last authorized biography of gospel singer George Beverly Shea. In 2013, Ambassador published \"Healing Hearts\", with a foreword by former US Surgeon General C. Everett Koop. The book was written by pediatric heart surgeon Hisashi Nikaidoh, known for the procedure that carries his name. Nikaidoh wrote the book about his experience of losing his son Hitoshi in a sudden accident in August 2003.\n\nOther Ambassador International authors include Holly Durst, contestant of the reality show The Bachelor: Season 12 and winner of Bachelor Pad Season 2. Durst's children's book \"Chocolate Socks\" was published in March 2012. William (Bill) Renje, author of \"A Chosen Bullet: A Broken Man's Triumph Through Faith and Sports\", won a gold medal in wheelchair rugby in the 1996 Summer Paralympics and the 2000 Summer Paralympics. Husband and wife authors Elizabeth and Kevin Morrisey wrote the book \"God's Lineup: Testimonies of Major League Baseball Players\" \"\", which features several players, including Landon Powell, Trot Nixon, Stephen Drew and Matt Diaz. Ambassador International published missionary David Sitton's book \"Reckless Abandon: A Gospel pioneer's exploits among the most difficult to reach peoples\" in 2011, re-releasing the title with new content in 2013. Preacher and theologian John Piper endorsed the book. The book is dedicated to David's niece, Makayla Sitton, who, along with three other family members, was killed on Thanksgiving night 2009.\n"}
{"id": "528825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528825", "title": "Bob Smith (New Hampshire politician)", "text": "Bob Smith (New Hampshire politician)\n\nRobert Clinton Smith (born March 30, 1941) is an American politician who served as a member of the United States House of Representatives for New Hampshire's 1st congressional district from 1985 to 1990 and the state of New Hampshire in the United States Senate from 1990 to 2003.\n\nFirst elected to the House of Representatives as a Republican in 1984, he was re-elected twice before running for the Senate in 1990, winning the open seat and assuming it early when incumbent Gordon J. Humphrey resigned. He was re-elected in 1996 and then entered the Republican primary for the 2000 presidential election. After failing to gain traction, he withdrew before the primaries began and joined the Taxpayers' Party, seeking their nomination instead. He then changed parties again, becoming an Independent before dropping out of the presidential race altogether. He then re-joined the Republican Party after the Chairmanship of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works became open, which he then assumed.\n\nSmith ran for re-election in 2002 but lost the Republican primary to Congressman John E. Sununu, who won the general election. After his defeat he moved to Florida and briefly ran for the Senate from there in 2004 and in 2010, but dropped out early on in both cases after faring poorly in polls of the Republican primary. He subsequently returned to New Hampshire, where he declared his candidacy for the Republican nomination in the 2014 Senate election, but was subsequently defeated in the Republican primary by former U.S. Senator from Massachusetts Scott Brown.\n\nSmith was born in Trenton, New Jersey, the son of Margaret (née Eldridge) and Donald Smith. He obtained a bachelor's degree from Lafayette College in 1965 and did graduate work at California State University, Long Beach. He served in the United States Navy Reserve from 1962 to 1965, and was on active duty from 1965 to 1967, including a year in Vietnam. He remained in the Navy Reserve until 1969. Smith settled in Wolfeboro, New Hampshire, where he taught history and English. He also served on his local school board and got into the real estate business as owner and operator of the Yankee Pedlar brokerage.\n\nSmith ran for New Hampshire's 1st congressional district in the 1982 elections. With the recession and President Reagan's unpopularity aiding Democratic candidates, Smith lost to incumbent Norman D'Amours by 55% to 45%. D'Amours did not seek re-election in 1984, unsuccessfully running for the U.S. Senate instead and Smith was elected in his place, riding Reagan's coattails to beat Democrat Dudley Dudley by 59% to 40%. A member of NH's Executive Council, her campaign slogan was \"Dudley Dudley, Worth Repeating\". Smith responded \"Dudley Dudley, Liberal Liberal\". Smith was re-elected in 1986 and 1988 by wide margins, first beating Democrat James M. Demers 56% to 44%, then beating Democrat Joseph F. Keefe by 60% to 40%.\n\nSmith did not run for re-election in 1990, instead running for the U.S. Senate seat that was being vacated by retiring Republican Gordon J. Humphrey, who was retiring after pledging not to serve more than two terms. His opponent was Democrat John A. Durkin, who had previously served in the Senate from 1975 to 1980. Smith beat him in a landslide, taking 65% of the vote to Durkin's 31%. Humphrey resigned in December after being elected to the New Hampshire Senate and Smith was appointed to replace him for the final two months of his term.\n\nThe Vietnam War POW/MIA issue, concerning the fate of possible missing or captured Americans in Vietnam, became Smith's major issue in Congress in 1985, partly spurred on by his growing up without knowing how his own father died in World War II. Smith helped create, and served as vice-chairman of, the 1991–1993 Senate Select Committee on POW/MIA Affairs. Smith ran for re-election in 1996 and only narrowly defeated Democratic former U.S. Representative Richard Swett, taking 49% of the vote to Swett's 46%. Smith had established himself as the most conservative Senator from the Northeast, and Bill Clinton's coattails nearly caused his defeat. On the night of the election many American media networks incorrectly projected that Swett had won.\n\nDuring his tenure in the Senate, Smith was a strident opponent of gay rights. In 1994, Smith and fellow Republican senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina introduced an amendment denying federal funding to schools which promoted homosexuality in their curricula. The amendment passed by a vote of 63-36. In October 1997, President Bill Clinton nominated openly gay diplomat James Hormel to be United States Ambassador to Luxembourg, the first time an openly LGBT person had been nominated for an ambassadorship. Smith, with fellow Republican Senators James Inhofe and Tim Hutchinson, campaigned vigorously against Hormel's nomination.\nIn January 1999, at Kingswood Regional High School in Wolfeboro, Smith announced that he was a candidate for the Republican nomination for President of the United States (at the time the front-runner was Texas Governor George W. Bush). In July, after failing to gain any ground in the presidential race and before any primaries or caucuses had taken place, Smith announced he was leaving the Republican Party and would seek the nomination of the Taxpayers' Party. One month later, Smith left the Taxpayers Party after claiming that ideologues within the party resisted his candidacy due to his Roman Catholicism and announced as an Independent. He withdrew completely from the race in October and endorsed Bush.\n\nIn the meantime, Republican Senator John Chafee of Rhode Island had died and thus the chairmanship of the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works had re-opened. Smith recanted his repudiation of the Republican party, claiming it had been \"a mistake\" and claiming that since he had never officially changed his voting registration that he had never left the party. Smith was then elected as Chafee's successor to the chairmanship.\n\nSome New Hampshire voters were uncomfortable with Smith's passionate way of expressing his views on certain issues. In one case, he used a pair of scissors to stab a plastic doll on the Senate floor to illustrate his anti-abortion stance.\n\nIn 2000, Smith attempted to assist the Miami-based family of Elián González after Elián was returned to his father's custody by accompanying them to the entrance of Andrews Air Force Base, where Elián was being held; they were turned away.\n\nSmith ran for re-election to a third term in 2002, but was defeated in the Republican primary by Congressman John E. Sununu, winning 45% of the vote to Sununu's 53%. After his defeat, \"The New York Times\" reported that many Republicans were \"relieved\" that he had lost, having never forgiven him for leaving the party in 1999. He subsequently moved to Sarasota, Florida to sell real estate.\n\nIn 2003, Smith founded the American Patriot Foundation, to support \"the families of soldiers lost in war.\" , its website describes the group as \"a non-partisan, non-profit national foundation with the primary function of educating the American public as to the importance and relevance in today's society of the United States Constitution, the Declaration of Independence, \"The Federalist Papers\", and other founding documents.\" In 2003, Smith turned the running of the group over to a friend and it became essentially dormant. The group was re-activated in 2010 during the court-martial of Terry Lakin, a lieutenant colonel in the United States Army, who refused to deploy to Afghanistan because of his concerns over President Obama's alleged constitutional eligibility to be president. The APF supported Lakin and released a video where he explained his intent to disobey what he believed to be \"illegal orders\". Asked whether he supported the group's work for Lakin, Smith said: \"...my personal belief is that when an officer has a constitutional question I don't have a problem with that being answered, that's his legal right to have that answered, but I'm not involved in it.\"\n\nSmith ran for the U.S. Senate seat from Florida in 2004 against Mel Martinez, but dropped out after raising little money and receiving less than 1% support in Republican polls. Martinez would go on to win the election.\n\nLess than a month before the November 2004 election, Smith wrote an op-ed for the \"Concord Monitor\" in which he denounced the lack of Republican outrage over phone jamming on Election Day 2002, in which Republican operatives had jammed phone banks used by the Democrats to contact Democratic voters and get them to the polls. Smith implied that this action may have made the difference in Shaheen's narrow loss to Sununu.\n\nOn December 21, 2007, Smith endorsed Congressman Duncan Hunter of California for the Republican presidential nomination. In a letter to New Hampshire Republicans ahead of the first-in-nation New Hampshire Primary, Smith cited Hunter as the best candidate to carry the \"Reagan Torch\" and the most qualified candidate to protect conservative values.\n\nIn January 2008, Smith began writing editorials on the web page of the Constitution Party (formerly called the U.S. Taxpayers' Party), which fueled speculation that Smith intended to seek the party's presidential nomination. The nomination went to Chuck Baldwin, a Baptist pastor.\n\nIn February 2009, with Martinez having announced that he would retire from the Senate in January 2011, Smith was again considering running for the seat, although it was also reported that he was considering a return to New Hampshire to run for the Senate seat there, especially if his old nemesis John E. Sununu (who was defeated for re-election in 2008) sought the seat.\n\nOn April 9, 2009, Politico reported that Smith would seek the Republican nomination for Florida's 2010 Senate election. He dropped out of the race in March 2010, after faring poorly in the polls against Governor Charlie Crist and Marco Rubio.\n\nIn mid-2013 Smith expressed interest in facing Democratic incumbent Jeanne Shaheen in the 2014 Senate election. In October he ruled out a run, but in December announced that he had reconsidered. He officially declared his candidacy for the Republican nomination in March 2014. If Smith had won New Hampshire's 2014 U.S. Senate race, he would have tied Dan Coats' modern mark for the longest gap in U.S. Senate service in the direct election era (12 years). However, he lost the primary to Scott Brown.\n\nSmith was one of three co-chairs of the Veterans Coalition supporting Ted Cruz for the Republican nomination in the 2016 presidential campaign. He is joined in \"Vets for Ted\" by Texas State Senator Brian Birdwell and U.S. Representative Jim Bridenstine of Oklahoma. Bill Connor is national director of the coalition.\n\nHe and his wife Mary Jo have three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "45277989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45277989", "title": "Caja Navarra scandal", "text": "Caja Navarra scandal\n\nThe Caja Navarra scandal unraveled in 2012 after the absorption of Caja Navarra (CAN), integrated in the financial conglomerate Banca Civica, by CaixaBank (3 August 2012). Caja Navarra lost all its worth, causing its actual demise. Caja Navarra's acronym and brand CAN was kept converted into a foundation. The highly controversial crash of the institution gave way to a demand of responsibilities.\n\nCaja Navarra (CAN) is a merger of two entrenched savings banks renowned for their proximity to the Navarrese people, and considered a sign of identity, as well as a symbol of Navarre's economic solvency and autonomy. In the 1980s and 1990s, 43% of the money of the Navarrese was held in either of both institutions, representing the prime financial institution in Navarre.\n\nAfter the fusion of the savings banks Caja Provincial de Navarra and Caja de Ahorros Municipal de Pamplona in 2000, the re-founded institution undertook a series of financial operations and expansion of its branches out of Navarre (including a representative office in Washington). As a result, CAN's assets plummeted. \n\nThe savings bank became insolvent in 2012 after years of asset-stripping, including the mysterious disappearance of its artistic collection. The fallout of the scandal affected high- and mid-ranking officials of the regional party UPN (Unión del Pueblo Navarro) who held political and managerial positions both within the bank and the Government of Navarre.\n\nIn 2010 the Board of Founding Partners was established to insulate Caja Navarra from political meddling, but paradoxically it integrated well-known political personalities, all of them high-ranking members of UPN and PSN (Spanish Socialists in Navarre), such as Yolanda Barcina, Miguel Sanz, Alberto Catalán, Roberto Jimenez, or Enrique Maya (mayor of Pamplona since 2011).\n\nCaja Navarra-related societies of dubious operation came into being, such as Sociedad Industrial de CAN and HISCAN Patrimonio S.L. Their Permanent Board members, all of them high-ranking officials or ex-officials of the government of Navarre (UPN) and PSN, have come to be accused of receiving irregular bonuses. Only in 2011, the 16 permanent board members of HISCAN Patrimonio S.L. received 121,000 euros in bonuses, a period in which CAN incurred heavy financial losses estimated at 203 million euros in just one year, down from 500-plus millions’ worth, during Yolanda Barcina’s one-year tenure in the board. \n\nIt was revealed that Yolanda Barcina, Miguel Sanz, Álvaro Miranda, and Enrique Maya got paid 2,860 and 1,717 euros each for participating in one-hour meetings (two consecutively) of a ghostly Permanent Board, held 16 times. The meetings consisted of a financial briefing to the board members, in which no questions were made and no minutes were recorded. After the revelations, president of the region Yolanda Barcina claimed she would give the money back, while apologizing to the people of Navarre for her behaviour. \n\nIn the period extending from 2004 to 2011, the estimated figure in bonuses to representatives of political, social and cultural agencies affiliated to Caja Navarra (including Ricardo Martín Fluxa, a Spanish ex-Secretary of State for Security, or Javier Iturbe, PSN ex-president and member of the Board of Directors) amounted to 4,3 million euros.\n\nIn late 2014, opposition parties of the Parliament of Navarre promoted the establishment of a parliamentary investigation panel to clear responsibilities. The Spanish Socialists' branch in Navarre, the PSN, voiced its misgivings, while the party at the centre of the controversy, the anti-Basque UPN, showed a frontal refusal, arguing that the case had to be left to Justice, actually Madrid tribunals (a Supreme Court ruling had recently acquitted the president of Navarre Yolanda Barcina of legal misconduct in the scandal of Caja Navarra’s irregular bonuses). \n\nHowever, a vote majority in the regional parliament made it possible the creation of that panel. Opposition parties (Geroa Bai, EH Bildu, Izquierda-Ezkerra) other than the Spanish Conservatives (PP) lashed out at the Socialists for attempting to constrain the range of topics to be addressed in the scrutiny, as well as allowing with their abstention to propel the party UPN, allegedly responsible for Caja Navarra's demise and main opponent to the parliamentary investigation, to chair the investigation panel and hold a critical position.\n\n"}
{"id": "43115174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43115174", "title": "Changelab", "text": "Changelab\n\nChangeLab is a grassroots think tank located in downtown Oakland, California with a satellite location in Seattle, Washington.\n\nChangeLab started in Brooklyn and moved to Oakland in summer 2014. Soya Jung and Scot Nakagawa are senior partners. Yong Chan Miller is the research director.\n\nChangeLab has published research papers, including the November 2012 \"Left or Right of the Color Line: Asian Americans and the Racial Justice Movement\" and the April 2013 \"The Importance of Asian Americans? It's Not What You Think\".\n\nChangeLab's blog is called Race Files. Bloggers include Scot Nakagawa, Soya Jung, and Alison Roh Park. Guest bloggers include Deepa Iyer, Prerna Lal, Esther Wang, Naomi Ishisaka, Simon Tam, PaKou Her, Helena Wong, Daniel Hosang, and Yong Chan Miller. Topics on the blog include affirmative action, racism (particularly anti-Asian racism), Asian Americans, civil rights, and white supremacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "33984313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33984313", "title": "China's Cultural Heritage Day", "text": "China's Cultural Heritage Day\n\nChina's Cultural Heritage Day is one of the most important part of China’s culture contribution, the purpose of this Day is to create a good atmosphere of cultural heritage and to enhance the recognition about the importance of protecting heritage. In December 2005, the State Council issued Notice on Strengthening Cultural Heritage Protection, putting up specific requests on the protection of tangible and intangible cultural heritage. The China’s Cultural Heritage Day is a yearly event on the second Saturday in June. The Day was first celebrated on 10 June in 2006.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "5497609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5497609", "title": "Dadullah", "text": "Dadullah\n\nMaulavi or Mullah Dadullah or Dadullah Akhund () (1966 – May 13, 2007) was the Taliban's senior military commander until he was killed by British and American special forces in Afghanistan in 2007. He was an ethnic Pashtun from the Kakar tribe of Kandahar province. According to the United Nations' list of entities belonging to or associated with the Al-Qaida organization, he had been the Taliban's Minister of Construction.\n\nDadullah Belong Kakar Pashtun tribe ,He lost a leg when fighting with the Mujahideen against Soviet occupation in the 1980s. He was a member of the Taliban's 10-man leadership council before the US-led invasion in 2001. He was reportedly also a close aide to Mullah Omar. In the period of 1999–2000, he led the suppression of a revolt by Hazaras in Bamyan province. In January 2001, Dadullah's forces committed several massacres of ethnic Hazaras, resulting in the death of some 300 civilians in the Yakaolang area. On March 10, 2001, he supervised the destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan, which had been ordered by Mullah Omar. When the Taliban regime fell in December 2001, Dadullah escaped capture by Northern Alliance forces in Kunduz province.\n\nRumors that Dadullah may be headed to recapture the city with as many as 8,000 Taliban fighters, following the November 2001 Battle of Mazar-i-Sharif, a thousand American ground forces were airlifted into the city.\n\nHe allegedly participated (by giving orders via cell phone) in the murder of Ricardo Munguia on March 27, 2003. In 2005 he was sentenced \"in absentia\" to life in prison, along with three others, by Pakistan for the attempted murder of a member of Pakistan's parliament, Maulana Muhammad Khan Sherani of the Jamiat Ulema-i-Islam party. Sherani, an opponent of the Taliban, survived an IED attack in his home constituency of Balochistan in November, 2004.\n\nA \"Western intelligence source\" claimed Dadullah may have been operating out of Quetta, Pakistan. Others, including the Pakistani government, claimed he was operating near Kandahar, Afghanistan. In 2006, he claimed to have 12,000 men and control 20 districts in the former Taliban heartland in the southern provinces of Kandahar, Helmand, Zabul and Orūzgān.\n\nDadullah had reportedly been a central figure in the recruitment of Pakistani nationals to the Taliban and was also one of the main Taliban spokesmen, frequently meeting with Al-Jazeera television reporters. In the summer of 2006, he was reportedly sent by Mullah Omar to South Waziristan to convince local Pashtun insurgents to agree to a truce with Pakistan. In October 2006 it was rumored that the Afghan government was considering giving control of its defense ministry over to Dadullah as part of a reconciliation plan with the Taliban to stop the ongoing insurgency.\n\nMullah Dadullah was linked to massacres of Shi'a, the scorched earth policy of Shi'a villages in 2001 (which he boasted about once on the radio), and the summary execution of men suspected of throwing hand grenades into his compound in 2001 (they were hanged at one of the main roundabouts). According to an interview he gave to the BBC, he had hundreds of suicide bombers waiting for his orders to launch an offensive against NATO troops.\n\nDadullah oversaw Taliban negotiations for the hostage-taking of Italian reporter Daniele Mastrogiacomo and his two Afghan assistants in March 2007. Mastrogiacomo's driver was later beheaded. Mastrogiacomo was reportedly exchanged for five senior Taliban leaders, including Ustad Yasir, Abdul Latif Hakimi, Mansoor Ahmad, a brother of Dadullah, and two commanders identified as Hamdullah and Abdul Ghaffar. The Taliban threatened to kill the interpreter Ajmal Naqshbandi, one of the two Afghan assistants, on March 29, 2007, unless the Kabul government freed two Taliban prisoners. Ajmal was later beheaded after the Afghan government refused to free anymore Taliban prisoners. According to Asadullah Khalid, the governor of Kandahar Province, \"Mullah Dadullah was the backbone of the Taliban. He was a brutal and cruel commander who killed and beheaded Afghan civilians.\"\n\nAfghan officials reported on May 13, 2007, that Mullah Dadullah was killed the previous evening in a raid by U.S, Afghan and NATO forces, known to have included the Special Boat Service (SBS), a British special forces unit, in Helmand Province, after he left his \"sanctuary\" for a meeting with fellow commanders, in southern Afghanistan. Some reports indicate Dadullah was killed in the Gershk district, while others claim he was killed near the Sangin and Nari Saraj district. Asadullah Khalid, the governor of Kandahar province, put the body of Dadullah on display at his official residence. The body appeared to have three bullet wounds, two in the torso and one in the back of the head. The Taliban named Mullah Bakht, Dadullah's younger brother, as his replacement.\n\nOn June 7, 2007, the Taliban said that Dadullah's body had been returned to them, in exchange for four Afghan health ministry workers who had been held hostage, and had been buried by his family in Kandahar. The Taliban said that a fifth hostage had been beheaded because Dadullah's body was not returned quickly enough.\n\n"}
{"id": "16940065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16940065", "title": "Dawlatzai", "text": "Dawlatzai\n\nDawlatzai () are several Pashtun tribes in eastern Afghanistan and western Pakistan. Dawlatzis live in Logar, Samangan, Paktia, Paktika, Khost, Baghlan, Nangarhar, Balkh Tajurghan, and Faryab provinces of Afghanistan. \n"}
{"id": "45558363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45558363", "title": "Fellow of the American Society of Genealogists", "text": "Fellow of the American Society of Genealogists\n\nFellow of the American Society of Genealogists (FASG) is an independent society of fellows reflecting the master class of genealogists within the United States of America. There are only fifty (50) lifetime FASG members within the American Society of Genealogists (ASG).\n\nFellows have the post-nominal initials FASG following their surnames. Fellows embody and promote the highest standards of genealogical scholarship. \n\nAt the time of the ASG founding, there was no certification process or standard for competent genealogists. The American Society of Genealogists (ASG) founded in 1940 created a method to honor significant achievement in the genealogical field by 1944. Those meeting the standards of excellence are nominated and voted for within the ASG after a vacancy occurs. \n\nPotential FASG members are reviewed for the following criteria. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "13999979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13999979", "title": "Harmonie Club", "text": "Harmonie Club\n\nThe Harmonie Club is a private social club in New York City. Founded in 1852, the club is the second oldest social club in New York. It is located at 4 East 60th Street, in a building designed by Stanford White.\n\nOriginally named the Gesellschaft Harmonie, the club was founded on October 16, 1852 by N. Gutman, M. Werner, H. Beer, Herman Cohn, Charles Werner, and Sigmund Werner. Although prominent German Jews, the group was reportedly denied admission to the Union Club, which had a tacit policy of discrimination. The club's original charter provided that it was created to provide \"mutually beneficial entertainment, occasional singing entertainments, lectures, etc\" for recent German immigrants. The first meeting of the club was held November 8, 1852 in a rented room on Broome Street with thirty-nine members in attendance. Between 1852 and 1867, the burgeoning club was regularly moved as the membership outgrew each rented space. After this nomadic period the club purchased land at 45 West Forty-Second Street to erect a permanent location and raised enough funds to have architect Henry Fernbach design the building. Later, this building was refurbished and had an annex added, both of which were designed by Herts and Tallant, architects of the Brooklyn Academy of Music and Coram Library at Bates College.\n\nThe growth of the club was supported through dues and the creation of a nomination process to accept new members. To govern the organization, the club held monthly meetings run by elected officers. During the first ten years of existence the group held balls, lectures, and other social events throughout New York City. The tenth anniversary was celebrated on October 18, 1863 with a banquet and ball attended by over one hundred and fifty members. Two years later the club was incorporated as, \"The Harmonie Social Club of the City of New York\", with two re-incorporations in 1867 and 1894. The first re-incorporation altered the provisions to allow the club to own property and the building on Forty-Second Street. The latter reincorporation was to change the name to \"The Harmonie Club.\" Members, however, continued to use the former name, Gesellschaft Harmonie, until 1893 when the club adopted English as its official language in place of German. The club was so successful, that by 1884 the \"New York Times\" reported that \"many of New-York's leading German citizens are connected\" with it.\n\nThe large building erected on West Forty-Second allowed the Harmonie Club to host in-house events, and for the next forty years the club regularly scheduled events such as dances, lectures, concerts, theatrical performances, billiards, cards, and bowling. In 1891, the Admission Committee was created, removing the task of approving and voting on new members from the general monthly meetings. The turn of the century brought several changes to the club. These changes included the first events for non-married members, a declining interest in large social gatherings such as dances, and increasing property taxes along Forty-Second Street. \n\nIn response to these pressures, a decision was made to relocate to a more suitable building. The club solicited donations from its members to build a new clubhouse on property acquired on the Upper East Side. In December 1905, the club moved into new premises at Four East 60th Street, in a building designed by renowned Beaux Arts architect, Stanford White of McKim, Meade & White. Lighting for the building was provided by Edward F. Caldwell & Co. Later alterations, inside and out, were designed by Benjamin Wistar Morris. A banquet to celebrate the opening was attended by over four hundred members. \nIn 1914, to meet the changing interests of its members, the Harmonie Club purchased the North Shore Country Club on Long Island. According to an April 1914 President's Report: \"The trend of time is toward the country club and healthy outdoor activity. With the increasing tendency to spread the weekends in suburban surrounding, with the increased use of the automobile, and with the increased desire for outdoor exercise, especially on the part of the younger generation.\" After several years of renovation the country club opened for Harmonie Club members only. This arrangement was designed to both serve and increase interest in the parent organization. Over the years, the North Shore Country Club has hosted several tournaments. Although no longer affiliated with the club, North Shore still operates today as a private course.\n\nThe growth of the Harmonie Club was slowed by the outbreak of World War I and related anti-German sentiment, as well as, the wartime service of current and potential members. The club supported the United States' campaign through hosting events for enlisted men and their families. In addition, fifty of the club's members served in the war effort. Following the war, the club prospered reaching a record high of eight hundred and fifty members in 1929. This number was cut in half by 1934 with the onset of the Great Depression. The Board of Governors began a large scale renovation of the building on Sixtieth Street under the expertise of architect Benjamin Morris in the late 1930s. The new facilities along with a series of changes in the club's bylaws were designed to modernize the organization and attracted a large number of new and young members.\n\nWith its origins as a Jewish club, for several years it served as the meeting location for the American Jewish Committee, especially in the tumultuous 1930s. The committee took a leading role in resettling refugees from the Nazis and in ensuring their contribution to the Allied war effort. Albert Einstein and other prominent Anti-Nazi figures of the day sponsored events at the club to raise awareness of the Nazis' persecution of the Jews. The growth of the Club was halted in 1941 with the American entry into World War II. The club continued to operate throughout the war and resumed its philanthropic programs from World War I, such as hosting functions for enlisted men. Following the war, the Club's membership returned to pre-Depression numbers.\n\nOver the years its political role in the community appeared to have moderated, and it became more of a social center, as well as extending its membership to include non-German Jews and others. In 1987, it was the location of the world's 'most charitable' bridge game, which raised $62,000. Historically known as a Jewish club, the club has indicated a willingness to broaden its membership. Nonetheless, a perceived lack of diversity caused member Michael Bloomberg to resign in 2001, in anticipation of his initial mayoral run.\n\nAs a New York cultural institution, the Harmonie Club has been host to numerous political and cultural luminaries in recent years, including a visit and address from former U.S. President Bill Clinton in 2007, presentations or panel discussions with Senators Hillary Clinton, Chuck Schumer, Representative Charles Rangel, every New York mayor and governor since Mayor Robert F. Wagner Jr., and Governor Herbert H. Lehman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2456775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2456775", "title": "Hazen S. Pingree", "text": "Hazen S. Pingree\n\nHazen Stuart Pingree (August 30, 1840 – June 18, 1901) was a four-term Republican mayor of Detroit (1889–1897) and the 24th Governor of the U.S. State of Michigan (1897–1901). A Yankee who migrated from New England, he was a successful Republican businessman turned politician.\n\nAs a businessman turned politician, Pingree was elected mayor in 1889 after a colorful campaign in which Pingree revealed his tolerance by making a circuit of saloons. Pingree added to the old stock Yankee Republican base by making large inroads into the German and Canadian elements. He was reelected in 1891, 1893 and 1895. Warning repeatedly against the dangers of monopolistic corporations, he launched nationally visible crusades against Detroit's streetcar, gas, electric, and telephone companies. He successfully forced rate reductions that won him widespread popularity. He won public approval for a citizen-owned electric light plant, and became a national spokesman for municipal ownership and public regulation of utilities and street railways. When the nationwide Panic of 1893 caused a severe depression, Pingree gained support by opening empty lots to garden farming launching Pingree's \"Potato Patch Plan,\" initially financed by Pingree, who sold his prize horse to pay for the farming tools and seeds. Pingree was a Republican, whose policies competed for support of the Populist Party voters and labor union members. He supported the gold standard in 1896, and worked to carry Michigan for William McKinley over silverite William Jennings Bryan in the intensely competitive 1896 U.S. presidential election. Pingree was on the ballot, too, and was elected governor of Michigan. As governor, he succeeded in forcing passage of the nation's first major statewide reappraisal of railroad and corporate property, with intent on implementing taxes. This led to a rational basis for railroad regulation and other trust busting ideas launched by the Republican Party. A survey of scholars in 1999 ranked Pingree as the fourth best mayor in all of American history.\n\nPingree was born in Denmark, Maine, to Jasper Pingree and Adeline (Bryant) Pingree and attended the common schools in Maine. At the age of fourteen, he moved to Saco, Maine, where he worked at a cotton factory. Two years later, he moved to Hopkinton, Massachusetts, and worked several years as a cutter in a shoe factory.\n\nIn 1862, Pingree enlisted in the Union Army to serve in the Civil War with the 1st Massachusetts Heavy Artillery Regiment (Company F). He fought on the front line during General Pope’s Northern Virginia Campaign and the Second Battle of Bull Run. The regiment he fought with was then ordered to defend Washington, D.C. until May 15, 1864, and then was sent to the front again. He fought with the Second Brigade of Tyler’s Division, Second Corps, which participated in battles at Fredericksburg Road (May 18), Harris Farm (May 19), and Spotsylvania Court House (May 19–21).\n\nHis regiment was then assigned to the Second Corps, Third Division, in the Army of the Potomac and fought at North Anna (May 24–25) where he and some other men were captured by a detachment of John S. Mosby’s command. Pingree was confined in Confederate prisons at Gordonsville and Lynchburg, Virginia, and at Salisbury, North Carolina. He was then taken to Andersonville prison and, while General Sherman was on his march to the sea, he was taken to Millen, Georgia, where he later escaped by pretending to be someone else during a roll call for a prisoner exchange in November 1864. Pingree rejoined his regiment, fought in many more battles, and was present at Appomattox Court House when Robert E. Lee surrendered on April 9, 1865. A few months later, on August 15, his regiment was mustered out.\n\nPingree was a cobbler by trade and, following the war, moved to Detroit and briefly worked for H. P. Baldwin's shoe company. In 1866, Pingree and his accountant, Charles H. Smith, purchased Baldwin's shoe-making machinery and formed the Pingree and Smith company.\nIn 1883, Smith retired from the firm and J. B. Howarth and Pingree's son Joe joined the partnership. By 1886, it was a $1 million company with 700 employees turning out a half-million shoes and boots a year. It was the second biggest shoe manufacturer in the U.S. In March 1887, a fire destroyed the entire plant, yet they were able to recover.\n\nIn 1872, Pingree married Frances A. Gilbert of Mount Clemens, Michigan. They had three children – Joe, Hazel, and Gertrude, who died in 1894 of tuberculosis at age 19.\n\nPingree had never been active in politics. As a citizen reformer he was elected mayor of Detroit in 1889 on a platform of exposing and ending corruption in city paving contracts, sewer contracts, and the school board. He soon turned to fighting privately owned utility monopolies. He challenged the electric and gas monopolies through municipally owned competitors. His largest struggle, however, was with Tom L. Johnson, president of the Detroit City Railway, over lowering streetcar fares to three cents. Pingree again attempted to create a competing municipally owned company, but was barred from creating a railway by the Michigan Constitution. When the company sought a thirty-year contract with the city, Pingree opposed it, leading a major shareholder, James McMillan, to express vehement disapproval.\n\nDuring the severe nationwide depression of 1893, Pingree expanded the public welfare programs, initiated public works for the unemployed, built new schools, parks, and public baths. He gained national recognition through his \"potato patch plan\", which allowed poor people to use of vacant city land for growing food. He was also an advocate of economist Henry George's single tax.\n\nIn 1896 Pingree was nominated as the GOP candidate for Governor of Michigan. He campaigned on a platform of pluralism, inviting the Germans and other ethnics to join a grand coalition that would bring prosperity to everyone, unlike the false prosperity promised by the silverites. He carried the state both for himself and Republican presidential candidate William McKinley.\n\nAfter taking office on January 1, 1897, he intended to also fill the last year of his term as mayor of Detroit, which would have lasted until elections in November 1897. However, his right to hold the two offices simultaneously was contested, and after the Michigan Supreme Court ruled against him, Pingree resigned as mayor.\n\nDuring his four years in office, Pingree promoted the regulation of railroad rates, equal taxation, and municipal ownership of public utilities. He also supported the direct election of U.S. senators; an eight-hour workday; an income tax; primary elections; the power of \"referendum,\" the abolition of child labor, and compulsory arbitration of labor disputes. Opposition from Democrats and business-oriented Republicans blocked most of his proposals. Pingree expressed the Progressive fear of corporate power, saying, \"I do not condemn corporations and rich men,\" he said, \"but I would keep them within their proper spheres. It is not safe to entrust the government of the country to the influence of Wall Street.\"\n\nPingree did not run for reelection in 1900. In 1901, Pingree arrived in London, England, while returning from an African safari with his son. He was stricken with peritonitis and was unable to return to the U.S. King Edward VII, Pingree’s famous look alike, even sent his own physicians to London's Grand Hotel to assist in Pingree's recovery.\n\nPingree was interred at the Elmwood Cemetery, Detroit, Michigan, and later reinterred at the Woodlawn Cemetery in Detroit. There is a statue of Pingree standing in the Grand Circus Park in Detroit, commemorating him as \"The Idol of the People.\" The sculpture was made by Austrian sculptor Rudolph Schwarz.\n\nThere is also a bronze bust of him on the thirteenth floor of the Coleman A. Young Municipal Building in Detroit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21670995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21670995", "title": "Human trafficking in Honduras", "text": "Human trafficking in Honduras\n\nHonduras is principally a source and transit country for women, girls, and boys trafficked for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation. Honduran children are typically trafficked from rural areas to urban and tourist centers such as San Pedro Sula, the North Caribbean coast, and the Bay Islands. Honduran women and children are trafficked to Guatemala, El Salvador, Mexico, and the United States for sexual exploitation. Most foreign victims of commercial sexual exploitation in Honduras are from neighboring countries; some are economic migrants en route to the United States who are victimized by traffickers. Internal child labor and forced child labor for violent criminal gangs are serious concerns.\n\nThe Government of Honduras does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. During the reporting period, Honduras made strong efforts to increase law enforcement efforts against trafficking offenders and to increase collaboration with non-governmental organization (NGOs), but government services for trafficking victims, particularly adults, remained inadequate. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017.\n\nThe Honduran government took significant steps to investigate and punish human trafficking crimes during the reporting year. Honduras prohibits trafficking for the purpose of commercial sexual exploitation through Article 149 of its penal code and an anti-trafficking statute enacted in February 2006, but does not prohibit trafficking for the purpose of labor exploitation. Honduran laws against sex trafficking prescribe penalties of up to 13 years’ imprisonment, which are sufficiently stringent and commensurate with those prescribed for other grave crimes such as rape. Last year, the government significantly increased efforts to investigate trafficking crimes by opening 74 investigations, initiating 13 prosecutions, and obtaining eight convictions, with sentences ranging from 5 to 27 years’ imprisonment. This compares with 24 trafficking-related investigations, 17 prosecutions, eight convictions, and four significant prison terms obtained in 2006. The government also dedicated more prosecutors and police personnel to combat human trafficking activity. Of particular note was a joint effort by the police, NGO Casa Alianza, and the Tegucigalpa mayor’s office to utilize proactive strategies such as raids and stakeouts to catch human traffickers and remove victims from trafficking situations. However, anti-trafficking law enforcement efforts outside the capital and San Pedro Sula were few. The government expanded anti-trafficking training for law enforcement officials in 2007, training thousands of personnel with the assistance of IOM. Law enforcement authorities regularly work with neighboring countries and the United States on anti-trafficking efforts, as well as investigations of child sex tourism. However, defendants over the age of 60 are subject to house arrest in Honduras while awaiting trial; many of these accused offenders, including American citizens, flee or bribe their way out of the country and avoid prosecution. Some acts of complicity with human trafficking have been reported among lower-level immigration officials and in other sectors. However, no investigations or prosecutions of such corrupt activity have been opened by the government.\n\nThe Honduran government made limited progress in its efforts to assist trafficking victims during the reporting year. The government operated no dedicated shelters or services for trafficking victims, although it referred child trafficking victims to NGOs, which could only serve a small percentage of those in need. Honduran NGOs shouldered a heavy burden to provide victim care, and received no direct funding from the government. While the government increased training on referring trafficking victims for care, NGOs report that referrals in practice are unorganized and uneven. Moreover, few resources, public or private, are available for adult trafficking victims. During the reporting period, the government worked closely with IOM to repatriate more than a dozen young Hondurans who had been trafficked to neighboring countries for sexual exploitation, and Honduran consular officials are trained to identify trafficking victims. Victims are encouraged to assist in the investigation and prosecution of their traffickers, and the government collaborated with NGOs to identify victim witnesses. There were no reports of victims being penalized for unlawful acts committed as a result of their being trafficked. Honduras does not provide legal alternatives to the removal of foreign victims to countries where they may face hardship or retribution. There is no formal system for proactively identifying trafficking victims among vulnerable populations such as sex workers or criminal detainees. In collaboration with an NGO, law enforcement officials in Tegucigalpa undertook a number of victim rescue efforts; fifteen minors were rescued in Tegucigalpa in seven separate cases in 2007.\n\nThe government made solid progress in prevention activities during the reporting period. The government’s inter-institutional committee against human trafficking hosted more than 50 training sessions for government officials, civil society members, students, and journalists, reaching more than 3,000 people. The government worked closely with NGOs and international organizations on additional TV and radio awareness-raising campaigns. In February 2008, the National Chamber of Tourism of Honduras and UNICEF launched a Code of Conduct campaign to encourage its tourism industry to prevent child sex tourism. No other government efforts to reduce demand for commercial sex acts were reported, although public awareness of the dangers of human trafficking appeared to be growing.\n\n"}
{"id": "42743149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42743149", "title": "Indonesian communist exiles in Tirana", "text": "Indonesian communist exiles in Tirana\n\nFollowing the military take-over in Indonesia and the massacres of 1965–66, the Albanian capital Tirana became one of the main hubs for exiled members and sympathizers of the pro-Chinese wing of the Communist Party of Indonesia (PKI). According to prof. Justus van der Kroef there were about forty Indonesian communists staying in Tirana in the early 1970s, around half of them organized in the Persatuan Peladjar Indonesia ('Indonesian Students Association'). The Tirana-based group often acted as spokespersons of the party.\n\nAccording to Ruth McVey the establishment of Tirana as a hub for PKI exiles began with the 5th congress of the Party of Labour of Albania (PPSh) in November 1966. The PKI delegation at the congress was led by Jusuf Adjitorop, a candidate member of the PKI politburo before the coup. Now he headed the PKI Delegation in Beijing, having survived the purge of PKI by being in China for medical treatment prior to the coup. In his address to the Albanian party congress, Adjitorop called for the reconstruction of PKI under the banner of Marxism–Leninism and Mao Tse-Tung Thought, calling for protracted armed struggle of the peasantry to overthrow the rule of Suharto and Nasution. Following the Albanian party congress Tirana became the main centre the pro-Chinese wing of PKI in exile, rather than Beijing. The dominant view is that neither the Chinese government nor the PKI wished that the party would be perceived as too closely linked to China. Another key factor was that Tirana was geographically close to other hubs of exiled Indonesian student activists across Eastern Europe. Notably the PKI had opted not to condemn the Albanian party at the 1961 Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in Moscow.\n\nAn English-language bimonthly journal, \"Indonesian Tribune\", was issued from Tirana. The publishing house of \"Indonesian Tribune\" was called Indonesia Progresif ('Indonesian Progressive'). The Persatuan Peladjar Indonesia ('Indonesian Students Association') in Albania published the journal \"Api Pemuda Indonesia\" ('Flame of Indonesian Youth').\n\n\"Indonesian Tribune\" and \"Api Pemuda Indonesia\" were the two main organs of the pro-Chinese wing of PKI. These publications were illegal inside Indonesia, and one could be arrested for possessing a copy. They were distributed by mail to Indonesia, posted from non-communist states (in particular via the Netherlands). By the late 1970s, circulation of these organs had dropped significantly. In the midst of the Sino-Albanian split some Indonesian communists left Albania. As a result, the publishing activity of the Indonesian group in Tirana was decreased. The International Institute of Social History hold a number of issues of \"Api Pemuda Indonesia\", spanning from 1968 to 1978. It also hold a smaller number of copies of \"Indonesian Tribune\", issued between 1966 and 1975.\n\nSwie Siauw Poh and Ernest Pinontoean were key organizers of the Tirana group. The writer Chalik Hamid, who had travelled to Albania to study journalism before the coup, was one of the members of the group that produced \"Indonesian Tribune\" and \"Api Pemuda Indonesia\" and worked as translator for Radio Tirana. He stayed in Albania until 1989.\n\nIn March 1967 Radio Tirana declared that it would begin broadcasts in Bahasa Indonesia twice daily. Radio Tirana discontinued its Bahasa Indonesia broadcasts in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "30728432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30728432", "title": "Joan Kelly", "text": "Joan Kelly\n\nJoan Kelly (March 29, 1928 – August 15, 1982) was a prominent American historian who wrote on the Italian Renaissance, specifically on Leon Battista Alberti. Among her best known works is the essay \"Did Women Have a Renaissance?\" which was published in 1977. The article challenged the contemporary historiography of the Renaissance, arguing that women's power and agency declined during the early modern period.\n\nKelly was born in Brooklyn in 1928 to George V. and Ruth (Jacobsen) Kelly. She received a BA from St John’s University in 1953 and then went on to earn a PhD in history from Columbia University in 1963, where she was supervised by Garret Mattingley. Kelly was a member of the history faculty of the City College of New York of the City University of New York from 1956 until her death from cancer in 1982.\n\nKelly was married to Eugene Gadol until 1972 and to Martin Fleischer from 1979 until her death.\n\nWhile still a graduate student at Columbia, Kelly was employed as a lecturer for City College from 1956 onwards. Once she received her doctorate in 1963, she was promoted to assistant professor, and again promoted to associate professor in 1972. Kelly was appointed a full professor in 1972.\n\nHer growing political involvement in the 1960s, particularly with Marxist theory and the civil rights movement, led to Kelly becoming more interested in women's history. Together with Gerda Lerner, Kelly founded the first master's program in women's history at Sarah Lawrence College. She was also the chair of the American Historical Association's Committee on Women Historians, 1975-77. She received a number of awards, including a Woodrow Wilson fellowship, 1953–54 and a junior fellowship from the National Foundation for the Arts and Humanities, 1967-68.\n\nIn the highly influential essay “Did Women Have a Renaissance? (1977),” Kelly explored women's roles in Renaissance society. She challenged traditional periodization, saying that women's historical experience was different to that of men's, and that while men's options may have expanded during the Renaissance period that the opposite was true for women. Drawing on contemporary literature, Kelly argued that concepts of courtly love led to an increased emphasis on women's passivity and virginity.\n\nKelly's argument broke with traditional historiography and encouraged other historians of women and gender to reassess historical periodization through the lens of women's experiences.\n\nThe Joan Kelly Memorial Prize, founded in 1984, is awarded annually by the American Historical Association \"for the book in women’s history and/or feminist theory that best reflects the high intellectual and scholarly ideals exemplified by the life and work of Joan Kelly.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18910757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18910757", "title": "Judaeo-Spanish", "text": "Judaeo-Spanish\n\nJudaeo-Spanish or Judeo-Spanish (, Hebrew script: , Cyrillic: ), commonly referred to as Ladino, is a Romance language derived from Old Spanish. Originally spoken in Spain and then after the Edict of Expulsion spreading through the former territories of the Ottoman Empire (the Balkans, Turkey, the Middle East, and North Africa) as well as France, Italy, the Netherlands, Morocco, and the United Kingdom, it is today spoken mainly by Sephardic minorities in more than 30 countries, with most of the speakers residing in Israel. Although it has no official status in any country, it has been acknowledged as a minority language in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Israel, France and Turkey. It is also formally recognised by the Royal Spanish Academy.\n\nThe core vocabulary of Judaeo-Spanish is Old Spanish and it has numerous elements from all the old Romance languages of the Iberian Peninsula: Old Aragonese, Astur-Leonese, Old Catalan, Galician-Portuguese and Mozarabic. The language has been further enriched by Ottoman Turkish and Semitic vocabulary, such as Hebrew, Aramaic, and Arabic, especially in the domains of religion, law and spirituality and most of the vocabulary for new and modern concepts has been adopted through French and Italian. Furthermore, the language is influenced to a lesser degree by other local languages of the Balkans, such as Greek, Bulgarian and Serbo-Croatian.\n\nHistorically, the Rashi script and its cursive form Solitreo have been the main orthographies for writing Judaeo-Spanish. However today, it is mainly written with the Latin alphabet, though some other alphabets such as Hebrew and Cyrillic are still in use. Judaeo-Spanish is known by many different names, mostly: \"Español/Espanyol\", \"Judió/Djudyo\" (or \"Jidió/Djidyo\"), \"Judesmo/Djudezmo\", \"Sefaradhí/Sefaradi\" and \"Ḥaketía/Haketia\". In Turkey and formerly in the Ottoman Empire, it has been traditionally called \"Yahudice\" in Turkish, meaning the Jewish language. In Israel, Hebrew speakers usually call the language \"(E)spanyolit\" or \"Ladino\".\n\nJudaeo-Spanish, once the trade language of the Adriatic Sea, the Balkans and the Middle-East and renowned for its rich literature especially in Salonika, today is under serious threat of extinction. Most native speakers are elderly, and the language is not transmitted to their children or grandchildren for various reasons. In some expatriate communities in Latin America and elsewhere, there is a threat of dialect levelling resulting in extinction by assimilation into modern Spanish. It is experiencing, however, a minor revival among Sephardic communities, especially in music.\n\nIn recent decades in Israel, the United States and Spain, the language has come to be referred to as \"Ladino\" (), literally meaning \"Latin\". However, some of its speakers consider that term to be incorrect. The language is also called \"judeo-espagnol\", \"judeoespañol\", \"Sefardí\", \"Judío\", and \"Espanyol\" or \"Español sefardita\"; \"Haquetía\" (from the Arabic \"ħaka\" , \"tell\") refers to the dialect of North Africa, especially Morocco. Spoken Ladino may also be referred to as Djudesmo. The dialect of the Oran area of Algeria was called \"Tetuani\", after the Moroccan city of Tétouan since many Orani Jews came from there. In Hebrew, the language is called \"Spanyolit\".\n\nAn entry in \"Ethnologue\" claims, \"The name 'Judesmo' is used by Jewish linguists and Turkish Jews and American Jews; 'Judeo-Spanish' by Romance philologists; 'Ladino' by laymen, especially in Israel; 'Haketia' by Moroccan Jews; 'Spanyol' by some others.\" That does not reflect the historical usage. In the Judeo-Spanish press of the 19th and 20th centuries the native authors referred to the language exclusively as \"Espanyol\", which was also the name that its native speakers spontaneously gave to it for as long as it was their primary spoken language. More rarely, the bookish \"Judeo-Espanyol\" has also been used since the late 19th century. The term \"Judezmo\" is unknown and offensive to most native speakers, and it has never been used in print in the native press. However, in limited parts of Macedonia, its former use in the past as a low-register designation in informal speech by unschooled people has been documented.\n\nThe derivation of the name \"Ladino\" is complicated. Before the Expulsion of Jews from Spain, the word meant literary Spanish, as opposed to other dialects or Romance in general, as distinct from Arabic. (The first European language grammar and dictionary, of Spanish, referred to it as \"ladino\" or \"ladina\". In the Middle Ages, the word \"Latin\" was frequently used to mean simply \"language\", particularly one understood: a \"latiner\" or \"latimer\" meant a translator.) Following the Expulsion, Jews spoke of \"the Ladino\" to mean the traditional oral translation of the Bible into Old Spanish. By extension, it came to mean that style of Spanish generally in the same way that (among Kurdish Jews) \"Targum\" has come to mean Judeo-Aramaic and (among Jews of Arabic-speaking background) \"sharħ\" has come to mean Judeo-Arabic.\n\nInformally, especially in modern Israel, many speakers use \"Ladino\" to mean Judaeo-Spanish as a whole. The language used to be regulated by a body called the Autoridad Nasionala del Ladino in Israel. More strictly, however, the term is confined to the style used in translation. According to the website of the Jewish Museum of Thessaloniki,\nLadino is not spoken, rather, it is the product of a word-for-word translation of Hebrew or Aramaic biblical or liturgical texts made by rabbis in the Jewish schools of Spain. In these translations, a specific Hebrew or Aramaic word always corresponded to the same Spanish word, as long as no exegetical considerations prevented this. In short, Ladino is only Hebrew clothed in Spanish, or Spanish with Hebrew syntax. The famous Ladino translation of the Bible, the Biblia de Ferrara (1553), provided inspiration for the translation of numerous Spanish Christian Bibles.\"\n\nThat Judaeo-Spanish \"ladino\" should not be confused with the \"ladino or Ladin language\" spoken in part of Northeastern Italy, which is closely related to the Romansh language of Swiss Grisons (it is disputed whether or not they form a common Rhaeto-Romance language) and has nothing to do with either Jews or Spanish beyond being a Romance language, a property that they share with French, Italian, Portuguese and Romanian.\n\nIn modern Spanish, the Royal Spanish Academy gives \"Ladino\" nine meanings, including five as an adjective and four as a noun, but two are obsolete:\n\n1. Adj. Astute, sagacious, cunning\n2. Adj. Pertaining or relating to the Ladin language.\n3. Adj. In El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama, describing a mestizo person who speaks only Spanish.\n4. Adj. In El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama, a Mestizo person.\n5. Adj. Obsolete: A person with facility in languages other than his/her own.\n6. Noun. The Ladin language spoken in South Tyrol.\n7. Noun. The religious language of Sephardic Jews.\n8. Noun. Judeo-Spanish.\n9. Noun. Obsolete: The archaic literary form of Spanish called \"romance\" or \"romantic Spanish\".\n\nAt the time of the expulsion from Spain, the day-to-day language of the Jews of different regions of the peninsula was hardly, if at all, different from that of their Christian neighbours, but there may have been some dialect mixing to form a sort of Jewish lingua franca. There was however, a special style of Spanish used for purposes of study or translation, featuring a more archaic dialect, a large number of Hebrew and Aramaic loanwords and a tendency to render Hebrew word order literally (\"ha-laylah ha-zeh\", meaning \"this night\", was rendered \"la noche la esta\" instead of the normal Spanish \"esta noche\"). As mentioned above, some authorities would confine the term \"Ladino\" to that style.\n\nFollowing the Expulsion, the process of dialect mixing continued, but Castilian Spanish remained by far the largest contributor. The daily language was increasingly influenced both by the language of study and by the local non-Jewish vernaculars, such as Greek and Turkish. It came to be known as \"Judesmo\" and, in that respect, the development is parallel to that of Yiddish. However, many speakers, especially among the community leaders, also had command of a more formal style, \"castellano\", which was nearer to the Spanish at the time of the Expulsion.\n\nThe grammar, the phonology and about 60% of the vocabulary of Judaeo-Spanish are basically Spanish but, in some respects, it resembles the dialects in southern Spain and South America, rather than the dialects of Central Spain. For example, it has yeísmo (\"she\" is '/' (Judaeo-Spanish), instead of \"\") as well as seseo.\n\nIn many respects, it reproduces the Spanish of the time of the Expulsion, rather than the modern variety, as it retains some archaic features such as the following:\n\nHowever, the phonology of both the consonants and part of the lexicon is, in some respects, closer to Galician-Portuguese and Catalan than to modern Spanish. That is explained by direct influence but also because all three languages retained some of the characteristics of medieval Ibero-Romance languages that Spanish later lost.\n\nContrast Judaeo-Spanish ' (\"still\") with Portuguese ' (Galician ', Asturian ' or ') and Spanish ' or the initial consonants in Judaeo-Spanish ', ' (\"daughter\", \"speech\"), Portuguese ', ' (Galician ', ', Asturian ', ', Aragonese ', ', Catalan '), Spanish ', '. It sometimes varied with dialect, as in Judaeo-Spanish popular songs, both ' and \"\" (\"son\") are found.\n\nThe Judaeo-Spanish pronunciation of \"s\" as \"\" before a \"k\" sound or at the end of certain words (such as \"\", pronounced , for six) is shared with Portuguese (as spoken in Portugal, most of Lusophone Asia and Africa, and in a plurality of Brazilian registers with either partial or total forms of coda |S| palatalization) but not with Spanish.\n\nLike other Jewish vernaculars, Judaeo-Spanish incorporates many Hebrew and Aramaic words, mostly for religious concepts and institutions. Examples are \"haham/ḥaḥam\" (rabbi, from Hebrew \"ḥakham\") and \"kal, kahal\"/\"cal, cahal\" (synagogue, from Hebrew \"qahal\").\n\nJudaeo-Spanish has absorbed some words from the local languages but sometimes Hispanicised their form: \"bilbilico\" (nightingale), from Persian (via Turkish) \"bülbül\". It may be compared to the Slavic elements in Yiddish. It is not always clear whether some of these words were introduced before the Expulsion because of the large number of Arabic words in Spanish generally.\n\nJudaeo-Spanish phonology consists of 27 phonemes: 22 consonants and 5 vowels.\n\nAs exemplified in the Sources section above, much of the phonology of Judaeo-Spanish is similar to that of standard modern Spanish. Here are some exceptions:\n\nJudaeo-Spanish is distinguished from other Spanish dialects by the presence of the following features:\n\nHere is the regular conjugation for the present tense:\nRegular conjugation in the preterite:\n\nJudaeo-Spanish follows Spanish for most of its syntax. (That is not true of the written calque language involving word-for-word translations from Hebrew, which some scholars refer to as Ladino, as described above.) Like Spanish, it generally follows a subject–verb–object word order, has a nominative-accusative alignment, and is considered a fusional or inflected language.\n\nThe following systems of writing Judaeo-Spanish have been used or proposed.\n\n\"Aki Yerushalayim\" magazine, owned by Autoridad Nasionala del Ladino, promotes the following orthography:\n\n\nJudaeo-Spanish is traditionally written in a Hebrew-based script, specially in Rashi script. The Hebrew orthography is not regulated, but sounds are generally represented by the following letters:\nIn the medieval Iberian peninsula, now Spain and Portugal, Jews spoke a variety of Romance dialects. Following the 1490s expulsion from Spain and Portugal, most the Iberian Jews resettled in the Ottoman Empire. Jews in the Ottoman Balkans, Turkey, Middle East, and North Africa (especially Morocco) developed their own Romance dialects, with some influence from Hebrew and other languages, which became what is now known as Judaeo-Spanish. Later on, many Portuguese Jews also escaped to France, Italy, the Netherlands and England, establishing small groups in those nations as well, but these spoke early modern Spanish or Portuguese rather than Judaeo-Spanish.\n\nJews in the Middle Ages were instrumental in the development of Spanish into a prestige language. Erudite Jews translated Arabic and Hebrew works, often translated earlier from Greek, into Spanish. Christians translated them again into Latin for transmission to Europe.\n\nUntil recent times, the language was widely spoken throughout the Balkans, Turkey, the Middle East and North Africa, as Judaeo-Spanish had been brought there by the Jewish refugees.\n\nThe contact among Jews of different regions and languages, including Catalan, Leonese and Portuguese developed a unified dialect, differing in some aspects from the Spanish norm that was forming simultaneously in Spain, but some of the mixing may have already occurred in exile rather than in the Iberian Peninsula. The language was known as \"Yahudice\" (Jewish language) in the Ottoman Empire. In the late 18th century, Ottoman poet Enderunlu Fazıl (Fazyl bin Tahir Enderuni) wrote in his \"Zenanname\": \"Castilians speak the Jewish language but they are not Jews.\"\n\nThe closeness and mutual comprehensibility between Judaeo-Spanish and Spanish favoured trade among Sephardim, often relatives, from the Ottoman Empire to the Netherlands and the \"conversos\" of the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nOver time, a corpus of literature, both liturgical and secular, developed. Early literature was limited to translations from Hebrew. At the end of the 17th century, Hebrew was disappearing as the vehicle for rabbinic instruction. Thus, a literature appeared in the 18th century, such as Me'am Lo'ez and poetry collections. By the end of the 19th century, the Sephardim in the Ottoman Empire studied in schools of the Alliance Israélite Universelle. French became the language for foreign relations, as it did for Maronites, and Judaeo-Spanish drew from French for neologisms. New. secular genres appeared, with more than 300 journals, history, theatre, biographies.\n\nGiven the relative isolation of many communities, a number of regional dialects of Judaeo-Spanish appeared, many with only limited mutual comprehensibility, largely because of the adoption of large numbers of loanwords from the surrounding populations, including, depending on the location of the community, from Greek, Turkish, Arabic and, in the Balkans, Slavic languages, especially Bosnian, Bulgarian and Serbo-Croatian. The borrowing in many Judaeo-Spanish dialects is so heavy that up to 30% of their vocabulary is of non-Spanish origin. Some words also passed from Judaeo-Spanish into neighbouring languages. For example, the word \"palavra\" \"word\" (Vulgar Latin = \"parabola\"; Greek = \"parabole\"), passed into Turkish, Greek and Romanian with the meaning \"bunk, hokum, humbug, bullshit\" in Turkish and Romanian and \"big talk, boastful talk\" in Greek (compare the English word \"palaver\").\n\nJudaeo-Spanish was the common language of Salonika during the Ottoman period. The city became part of Greece in 1912 and was subsequently renamed Thessaloniki. Despite the Great Fire of Thessaloniki, economic oppression by Greek authorities and mass settlement of Christian refugees, the language remained widely spoken in Salonika until the deportation of 50,000 Salonikan Jews in the Holocaust during the Second World War. According to the 1928 census, the language had 62,999 native speakers in Greece. The figure drops down to 53,094 native speakers in 1940, but 21,094 citizens \"usually\" spoke the language.\n\nJudaeo-Spanish was also a language used in \"Donmeh\" rites (\"Dönme\" being a Turkish word for \"convert\" to refer to adepts of Sabbatai Tsevi converting to Islam in the Ottoman Empire). An example is \"Sabbatai Tsevi esperamos a ti\". Today, the religious practices and the ritual use of Judaeo-Spanish seems confined to elderly generations.\n\nThe Castilian colonisation of Northern Africa favoured the role of polyglot Sephards, who bridged between Spanish -colonizers and Arab and Berber speakers.\n\nFrom the 17th to the 19th centuries, Judaeo-Spanish was the predominant Jewish language in the Holy Land, but its dialect was different in some respects from the one in Greece and Turkey. Some families have lived in Jerusalem for centuries and preserve Judaeo-Spanish for cultural and folklore purposes although they now use Hebrew in everyday life.\n\nAn often-told Sephardic anecdote from Bosnia-Herzegovina has it that as a Spanish consulate was opened in Sarajevo in the interwar period, two Sephardic women passed by. Upon hearing a Catholic priest who was speaking Spanish, they thought that his language meant that he was Jewish.\n\nIn the 20th century, the number of speakers declined sharply: entire communities were murdered in the Holocaust, and the remaining speakers, many of whom emigrated to Israel, adopted Hebrew. The governments of the new nation-states encouraged instruction in the official languages. At the same time, Judaeo-Spanish aroused the interest of philologists, as it conserved language and literature from before the standardisation of Spanish.\n\nJudaeo-Spanish is in a serious danger of extinction because many native speakers today are elderly \"olim\" (immigrants to Israel), who have not transmitted the language to their children or grandchildren. Nevertheless, it is experiencing a minor revival among Sephardic communities, especially in music. In addition, Sephardic communities in several Latin American countries still use Judaeo-Spanish. There, an additional danger is assimilation to modern Spanish.\n\nKol Yisrael and Radio Nacional de España hold regular radio broadcasts in Judaeo-Spanish. \"\" showed an episode, titled \"A Murderer Among Us\", with references to the language. Films partially or totally in Judaeo-Spanish include Mexican film \"Novia que te vea\" (directed by Guita Schyfter), The House on Chelouche Street, and \"Every Time We Say Goodbye\".\n\nEfforts have been made to gather and publish modern Judaeo-Spanish fables and folktales. In 2001, the Jewish Publication Society published the first English translation of Judaeo-Spanish folktales, collected by Matilda Koén-Sarano, \"Folktales of Joha, Jewish Trickster: The Misadventures of the Guileful Sephardic Prankster.\" A survivor of Auschwitz, Moshe Ha'elyon, issued his translation into Ladino of the ancient Greek epic The Odyssey in 2012, in his 87th year, and he is now translating the sister epic, the Iliad, into his mother tongue.\n\nThe language was initially spoken by the Sephardic Jewish community in India, but was later replaced with Judeo-Malayalam.\n\nThe earliest Judaeo-Spanish books were religious in nature, mostly created to maintain religious knowledge for exiles who could not read Hebrew; the first of the known texts is \"Dinim de shehitah i bedikah (The Rules of Ritual Slaughter and Inspection of Animals;\" Istanbul, 1510). Texts continued to be focussed on philosophical and religious themes, including a large body of rabbinic writings, until the first half of the 19th century. The largest output of secular Judaeo-Spanish literature occurred during the latter half of the 19th and the early 20th centuries in the Ottoman Empire. The earliest and most abundant form of secular text was the periodical press: between 1845 and 1939, Ottoman Sephardim published around 300 individual periodical titles. The proliferation of periodicals gave rise to serialised novels: many of them were rewrites of existing foreign novels into Judaeo-Spanish. Unlike the previous scholarly literature, they were intended for a broader audience of educated men and less-educated women alike. They covered a wider range of less weighty content, at times censored to be appropriate for family readings. Popular literature expanded to include love stories and adventure stories, both of which had been absent from Judaeo-Spanish literary canon. The literary corpus mesnwhile also expanded to include theatrical plays, poems and other minor genres.\n\nThe Jewish communities of Sarajevo, Bosnia-Herzegovina, and Belgrade, Serbia, still chant part of the Sabbath Prayers (\"Mizmor David\") in Judaeo-Spanish. The Sephardic Synagogue Ezra Bessaroth in Seattle, Washington, United States, was formed by Jews from Turkey and the Greek island of Rhodes, and it uses the language in some portions of its Shabbat services. The Siddur is called Zehut Yosef and was written by Hazzan Isaac Azose.\n\nAt Congregation Etz Ahaim of Highland Park, New Jersey, a congregation founded by Sephardic Jews from Salonika, a reader chants the Aramaic prayer \"B'rikh Shemay\" in Judaeo-Spanish before he takes out the Torah on Shabbat. That is known as \"Bendichu su Nombre\" in Judaeo-Spanish. Additionally, at the end of Shabbat services, the entire congregation sings the well-known Hebrew hymn \"Ein Keloheinu,\" which is \"Non Como Muestro Dio\" in Judaeo-Spanish.\n\n\"Non Como Muestro Dio\" is also included, alongside \"Ein Keloheinu\", in \"Mishkan T'filah\", the 2007 Reform prayerbook.\n\nRabbi Aryeh Kaplan translated some scholarly religious texts, including \"Me'am Loez\" into Hebrew, English or both.\n\nIzmir's grand rabbis Haim Palachi, Abraham Palacci, and Rahamim Nissim Palacci all wrote in the language and in Hebrew.\n\nAs with Yiddish, Judaeo-Spanish is seeing a minor resurgence in educational interest in colleges across the United States and in Israel. Almost all American Jews are Ashkenazi, with a tradition based on Yiddish, rather than Judaeo-Spanish, and so institutions that offer Yiddish are more common. the University of Pennsylvania and Tufts University offered Judaeo-Spanish courses among colleges in the United States. In Israel, Moshe David Gaon Center for Ladino Culture at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev is leading the way in education (language and literature courses, Community oriented activities) and research (a yearly scientific journal, international congresses and conferences etc.). Hebrew University also offers courses. The Complutense University of Madrid also used to have courses. Prof. David Bunis taught Ladino at the University of Washington, in Seattle during the 2013–14 academic year.\n\nIn Spain, the Spanish Royal Academy (RAE) in 2017 announced plans to create a Judaeo-Spanish branch in Israel in addition to 23 existing academies, in various Spanish-speaking countries, that are associated in the Association of Spanish Language Academies. Its stated purpose is to preserve Judaeo-Spanish. The move was seen as another step to make up for the Expulsion, following the offer of Spanish citizenship to Sephardim who had some connection with Spain.\n\nFolklorists have been collecting \"romances\" and other folk songs, some dating from before the expulsion. Many religious songs in Judeo-Spanish are translations of Hebrew, usually with a different tune. For example, here is \"Ein Keloheinu\" in Judeo-Spanish:\n\nOther songs relate to secular themes such as love:\n\nAnachronistically, Abraham—who in the Bible is the very first Hebrew and the ancestor of all who followed, hence his appellation \"Avinu\" (Our Father)—is in the Judeo-Spanish song born already in the \"djudería\" (modern Spanish: \"judería\"), the Jewish quarter. This makes Terach and his wife into Hebrews, as are the parents of other babies killed by Nimrod. In essence, unlike its Biblical model, the song is about a Hebrew community persecuted by a cruel king and witnessing the birth of a miraculous saviour—a subject of obvious interest and attraction to the Jewish people who composed and sang it in Medieval Spain.\n\nThe song attributes to Abraham elements that are from the story of Moses's birth, the cruel king killing innocent babies, with the midwives ordered to kill them, the 'holy light' in the Jewish area, as well as from the careers of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego who emerged unscathed from the fiery furnace. Nimrod is thus made to conflate the role and attributes of two archetypal cruel and persecuting kings:Nebuchadnezzar and Pharaoh.\n\n\"Words derived from Arabic\":\n\n\"Words derived from Hebrew\":\n\n\"Words derived from Persian\":\n\n\"Words derived from Portuguese\":\n\n\"Words derived from Turkish\":\n\nJennifer Charles and Oren Bloedow from the New York-based band Elysian Fields released a CD in 2001 called La Mar Enfortuna, which featured modern versions of traditional Sephardic songs, many sung by Charles in Judeo-Spanish. The American singer Tanja Solnik has released several award-winning albums that feature songs in the languages: \"From Generation to Generation: A Legacy of Lullabies\" and \"Lullabies and Love Songs\". There are a number of groups in Turkey that sing in Judeo-Spanish, notably \"Janet – Jak Esim Ensemble\", \"Sefarad\", \"Los Pasharos Sefaradis\" and the children's chorus \"Las Estreyikas d'Estambol\". There is a Brazilian-born singer of Sephardic origins, Fortuna, who researches and plays Judeo-Spanish music.\n\nThe Jewish Bosnian-American musician Flory Jagoda recorded two CDs of music taught to her by her grandmother, a Sephardic folk singer, among a larger discography.\n\nThe cantor Dr. Ramón Tasat, who learned Judeo-Spanish at his grandmother's knee in Buenos Aires, has recorded many songs in the language, with three of his CDs focusing primarily on that music.\n\nThe Israeli singer Yasmin Levy has also brought a new interpretation to the traditional songs by incorporating more \"modern\" sounds of Andalusian Flamenco. Her work revitalising Sephardi music has earned Levy the Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation Award for promoting cross-cultural dialogue between musicians from three cultures: In Yasmin Levy's own words:\n\n\"I am proud to combine the two cultures of Ladino and flamenco, while mixing in Middle Eastern influences. I am embarking on a 500 years old musical journey, taking Ladino to Andalusia and mixing it with flamenco, the style that still bears the musical memories of the old Moorish and Jewish-Spanish world with the sound of the Arab world. In a way it is a ‘musical reconciliation’ of history.\"\n\nNotable music groups performing in Judeo-Spanish include Voice of the Turtle, Oren Bloedow and Jennifer Charles' \"La Mar Enfortuna\" and Vanya Green, who was awarded a Fulbright Fellowship for her research and performance of this music. She was recently selected as one of the top ten world music artists by the We are Listening International World of Music Awards for her interpretations of the music.\n\nRobin Greenstein, a New York-based musician, received a federal CETA grant in the 1980s to collect and perform Sephardic Ladino Music under the guidance of the American Jewish Congress. Her mentor was Joe Elias, noted Sephardic singer from Brooklyn. She recorded residents of the Sephardic Home for the Aged, a nursing home in Coney Island, New York, singing songs from their childhood. The voices recorded included Victoria Hazan, a well known Sephardic singer who recorded many 78's in Judaeo-Spanish and Turkish from the 1930s and 1940s. Two Judaeo-Spanish songs can be found on her \"Songs of the Season\" holiday CD, released in 2010 on Windy Records.\n\nGerman band In Extremo also recorded a version of the above-mentioned song Avram Avinu.\n\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48144876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48144876", "title": "Koreans in Malaysia", "text": "Koreans in Malaysia\n\nKoreans in Malaysia numbered 12,690 individuals , making them the 22nd-largest community of overseas Koreans, and the 5th-largest in Southeast Asia.\n\nThe history of Koreans in Malaysia goes back almost half a century; Malaysia and South Korea established diplomatic relations in 1960, and in the following decade, when Malaysia faced a shortage of doctors, a number of foreign doctors, including Koreans and Filipinos, were authorised to practise in Malaysia. Some construction workers, pilots, and sailors were also sent to the country.\n\nThe Korean community in Malaysia consist mostly of migrants working in South Korean companies, as well as an increasing number of international students. The number of retirees coming under the Malaysia My Second Home immigration programme has also been increasing. Most Korean residents are concentrated in Kuala Lumpur and Selangor, especially in Ampang, where a Koreatown is beginning to sprout. The popularity of Korean dramas in Malaysia has meant an increasingly friendly reception for Korean migrants by local people. Real estate investment is another factor drawing Koreans to migrate to Malaysia, due to the taxes imposed on people who own more than two properties in Korea; Malaysia is the second most popular market for overseas real estate investment by Koreans, after the United States.\n\nAround 200,000 South Korean tourists came to Malaysia in 2006; Kota Kinabalu was their most popular destination. About 1,800 to 2,000 Koreans reside in Sabah, most of them in Kota Kinabalu. Sabah Oil and Gas Terminal project in Kimanis, Papar has brought South Korean employees of Samsung Engineering to work and live there until the terminal completion in December 2013.\n\nThere were also some North Koreans working in Sarawak in the mine industry. This was revealed after a tragedy that killed one and injuring seven others North Koreans in 2014. By September 2017, the state Immigration Department has confirmed there is no more North Koreans working in Sarawak with the coal mine also had stopped their operation.\n\nRoughly 2,000 of the Koreans in Malaysia are students; Malaysia's multicultural environment offers them the chance to practise English as well as study other languages such as Chinese or Malay; they describe the educational environment as being more relaxed than in Korea. Korean churches form an important part of their social life. Their parents also prefer Malaysia to other countries for several reasons. The low cost of living and education in Malaysia is a major pull factor; Parents also believe Malaysia offers a better environment for English study than neighbouring countries, as prevalence of Islam in Malaysia means that the nightlife is less of a distraction. A representative from one Seoul company which helps to arrange overseas study for local students estimated that 90% of Korean students going to Southeast Asia choose Malaysia as their destination. However, some international schools have stopped accepting Korean students because they have become too large a proportion of their student bodies. In many cases, mothers come to Malaysia with their young school-age children, while the breadwinning father remains behind in South Korea and sends money to support them.\n\nMalaysia's first officially registered weekend school for Korean nationals, the Malaysia Korean School, was established on 7 December 1974; it had 26 teachers and enrolled 148 students . It was located on Jalan Ampang in Kuala Lumpur. The first day school for Korean families, the Korean School of Malaysia, opened in Cyberjaya in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10150561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10150561", "title": "Laiuse Romani language", "text": "Laiuse Romani language\n\nLaiuse Romani was a Romani variety spoken in Estonia. It was a mixed language based on Romani and Estonian.\n\nThe Romani people first appeared to Estonia in the 17th century. According to rumors, they were first part of Swedish King Charles XII's Romani orchestra which he, after spending a winter in Laiuse, left behind. In 1841 all of the 44 Estonian Romani were collected and settled around Laiuse Parish. Their main stop was Raaduvere village, but they also lived in Tähkvere, Jõgeva and its precincts. Before the Second World War there was 60 Romani in Laiuse. Laiuse Romani became extinct in the German occupation, when all its speakers were killed by the Nazis during the Porajmos.\n\nLaiuse Romani shares a number of linguistic features with Finnish Kalo, such as palatalization of velar consonants before front vowels and initial devoicing.\n\n"}
{"id": "5497767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5497767", "title": "Laz people", "text": "Laz people\n\nThe Laz people or Lazi (; ; ) are an indigenous Kartvelian-speaking ethnic group inhabiting the Black Sea coastal regions of Turkey and Georgia.\n\nEstimates of the total population of the Laz people today vary drastically, with numbers as low as 45,000 to as high as 1.6 million people, with the majority living in northeast Turkey. The Laz speak the Laz language, a member of the same Kartvelian language family as Georgian, Svan, and Mingrelian. The Laz language is classified as endangered by UNESCO, with an estimated 130,000 to 150,000 speakers in 2001.\n\nThe ancestors of the Laz people are cited by many classical authors from Scylax to Procopius and Agathias, but the Laz () themselves are cited by Pliny around the 2nd century BC, The ethnonym \"Laz\" is unhesitatingly linked to a Svan toponym La-zan (i.e. La = territorial prefix + Zan).\n\nBy the 6th century, the Colchians of Pontus were known as the Tzanni (), at the same time when the Caucasian state of Lazica (or Egrisi in Georgian sources) existed on the Phasis valley basin. According to Procopius, the Byzantine emperor Justinian I subdued Tzanni in the 520s and converted them to Christianity. When the ancient metropolis, Phasis, was lost by the Byzantine Empire, Trebizond became the Metropolitan bishop of Lazica, since then the name Lazi appears the general Greek name for the southern Colchian tribes () lying outside of the direct control of the Lazic Kingdom.\n\nThe Pontic Lazi, which were incorporated within the Byzantine Empire, and differed from the Caucasian Lazi, or Megrelians, have retained the old name \"Lazi\" till today.\n\nThe Laz are ethnically a branch of the Georgians. Many modern theories suggest that the ancestors of the Laz-Mingrelians constituted the dominant ethnic and cultural presence in the south-eastern Black Sea region in antiquity, and hence played a significant role in the ethnogenesis of the modern Georgians.\n\nIn the 13th century BC, the Kingdom of Colchis was formed as a result of the increasing consolidation of the tribes inhabiting the region, which covered modern western Georgia and Turkey's north-eastern provinces of Trabzon and Rize. In 8th century, several Greek trading colonies were established along the shores of the Black Sea.By the 6th century BC, the tribes living in the southern Colchis (Macrones, Moschi, Marres etc.) were incorporated into the nineteenth Satrapy of Persia. The Achaemenid Empire was defeated by Alexander the Great, however following of Alexander's death a number of separate kingdoms were established in Anatolia, including Pontus, in the corner of the south-eastern Black Sea, ruled by Mithridates. The very small number of Hellenistic Greek inscriptions that have been found anywhere in Pontus suggest that Greek culture did not substantially penetrate beyond the coastal cities and the court.\n\nAs a result of the brilliant Roman campaigns led by the generals Pompey and Lucullus, the kingdom of Pontus was completely destroyed by the Romans and all its territory, including Colchis, was incorporated into the Roman Empire. The former southern provinces of Colchis were reorganized into the Roman province of Pontus Polemoniacus, while the northern Cholchis became the Roman province of Lazicum. By the mid-3rd century, the Lazi tribe came to dominate most of Colchis, establishing the kingdom of Lazica.\n\nGreek colonization was restricted to the coast, and in later ages Roman control remained likewise only nominal over the tribes of the interior. The coastal regions, however, belonged to the Roman province of Pontus Polemoniacus.\n\nDuring the reign of the Byzantine emperor Justinian I ( 527–565) the warlike tribes of the interior Pontus, called Sannoi or Tzannoi, the ancestors of modern Laz people, were subdued, Christianized and brought to central rule. Locals began to have closer contact with the Greeks and acquired various Hellenic cultural traits, including in some cases the language.\n\nFrom 542 to 562, Lazica was a scene of the protracted rivalry between the Eastern Roman and Sassanid empires, culminating in the Lazic War. Emperor Heraclius's offensive in 628 AD brought victory over the Persians and ensured Roman predominance in Lazica until the invasion and conquest of the Caucasus by the Arabs in the second half of the 7th century.\n\nIn the 7th century Lazica fell to the Muslim conquest, however in the 8th century combined Lazic and Abasgian forces successfully repelled the Arab occupation. In 780 Lazica was incorporated to kingdom of Abkhazia via a dynastic union, the latter led the unification of Georgian monarchy in the 11th century, thus ousting the Pontic Lazs from western Georgia; thereafter, the Lazs lived under nominal Byzantine suzerainty in the theme of Chaldia, with its capital at Trebizond, governed by the native semi-autonomous rulers, like the Gabras family. According to the 10th century Arab geographer Abul Feda city of Trebizond was regarded as being largely a Lazian port. Following the Seljuk Turks invasion, there has been continuous influx of Armenians resulting partial armenization of the local Tzan population and formation of new Hemshin identity.\n\nWith the Georgian intervention in Chaldia and collapse of Byzantine Empire in 1204, Empire of Trebizond was established along the southwestern coast of the Black Sea, populated by a large Lazian-speaking population. In the eastern part of the same empire, an autonomous coastal theme of Greater Lazia was established. Byzantine authors, such as Pachymeres, and to some extent Trapezuntines such as Lazaropoulos and Bessarion, regarded the Trapezuntian Empire as being no more than a Lazian border state. Though Greek in higher culture, the rural areas of Trebizond empire appear to have been predominantly Laz in ethnic composition. Laz family names, with Hellenized terminations, are noticeable in the records of the mediaeval empire of Trebizond, and it is perhaps not too venturesome to suggest that the antagonism between the \"town-party\" and the \"country-party,\" which existed in the politics of \"the Empire,\" was in fact a national antagonism of Laz against Greek.\n\nIn 1282, kingdom of Imereti besieged Trebizond, however after the failed attempt to take the city, the Georgians occupied several provinces and all the Trebizontine province of Lazia threw off its allegiance to the king of the 'Iberian' and 'Lazian' tribes and united itself with the Georgian Kingdom of Imereti.\n\nLaz populated area was often contested by different Georgian principalities, however through Battle of Murjakheti (1535), Principality of Guria finally ensured control over it, until 1547, when it was conquered by resurgent Ottoman forces and reorganized into the Lazistan sanjak as part of eyalet of Trabzon.\n\nAfter the Ottoman conquest of Trebizond Empire and later Ottoman invasion of Guria in 1547, Ottomans fought for three centuries to destroy the Christian-Georgian consciousness of the Laz people. Local orthodox inhabitants, once subordinated to the Georgian Orthodox Church, had to obey Patriarchate of Constantinople. Part of the native population were target of the Ottoman Islamization policy and gradually converted to Islam, while the second part of the people who remained orthodox subordinated to the Greek Church, thus gradually becoming Greeks, the process known as Hellenization of Laz people. Lazs who were under the control of Constantinople, soon lost their language and self-identity as they became Greeks and learned Greek, especially Pontic dialect of Greek language, although native language was preserved by Lazs who had become Muslims.\n\nNot only the Pashas (governors) of Trabzon until the 19th century, but real authority in many of the \"cazas\" (districts) of each sanjak by the mid-17th century lay in the hands of relatively independent native Laz derebeys (\"valley-lords\"), or feudal chiefs who exercised absolute authority in their own districts, carried on petty warfare with each other, did not owe allegiance to a superior and never paid contributions to the sultan. This state of insubordination was not really broken until the assertion of Ottoman authority during the reforms of the Osman Pasha in 1850s.\n\nIn 1547, Ottomans built coastal fortress of Gonia, an important Ottoman outpost in southwestern Georgia, which served as capital of Lazistan; then Batum until it was acquired by the Russians in 1878, throughout the Russo-Turkish War, thereafter, Rize became the capital of the sanjak. The Muslim Lazs living near the war zones in Batumi Oblast were subjected to ethnic cleansing; many Lazes living in Batumi fled to the Ottoman Empire, settling along the southern Black Sea coast to the east of Samsun and Marmara region.\n\nAround 1914 Ottoman policy towards the Christian population shifted; state policy was since focused to the forceful migration of Christian Pontic Greek and Laz population living in coastal areas, close to the Turkish-Russian front to the Anatolian hinterland. In the 1920s Christian population of the Pontus were expelled to Greece.\n\nIn 1917, after the Russian Revolution, Lazs became citizents of Democratic Republic of Georgia, and eventually became Soviet citizens after the Red Army invasion of Georgia in 1921. Simultaneously, a treaty of friendship was signed in Moscow between Soviet Russia and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, whereby southern portions of former Batumi oblast - later known as Artvin, was awarded to Turkey, which renounced its claims to Batumi.\n\nThe autonomous Lazistan sanjak existed until the end of the empire in 1923. the designation of the term of Lazistan was officially banned in 1926, by the Kemalists. Lazistan was divided between Rize and Artvin provinces.\n\nMost Laz people today live in Turkey, but the Laz minority group has no official status in Turkey. The number of the Laz speakers is decreasing, and is now limited chiefly to the Rize and Artvin areas.\n\nOver time the Laz living on either side of the frontier have developed different conceptions of what it means to be Laz. Today, most of those living in Turkey do not consider themselves Turkish, but uphold their Laz identity as a separate one. In contrast, Laz identity in Georgia has largely merged with a Georgian identity, and the meaning of \"Laz\" is seen as merely a regional category. At the same time, in Turkey, the term Laz is a 'folk' definition for people of different ethnic and linguistic backgrounds originating from the Black Sea Region. Officially, the Laz people are not recognized as a minority. Thus, many Turks do not even know about their diverse existence and falsely call the inhabitants of the Black Sea coast as the \"Lazlar\". Within the last decade more and more intellectual Laz people realized that the disappearance of their language would lead to the disappearance of their identity and tried to preserve their inherited culture through political empowerment, linguistic education, and music and poetry.\n\nThe total population of the Laz today is only estimated, with numbers ranging widely. The majority of Laz live in Turkey, where the national census does not record ethnic data on minor populations.\n\nThe majority of the Laz today live in an area they call \"Laziǩa, Lazistan, Lazeti\" or \"Lazona\" name of the cultural region traditionally inhabited by the Laz people in modern northeast Turkey and southwest Georgia. Geographically, Lazistan consists of a series of narrow, rugged valleys extending northward from the crest of the Pontic Alps (), which separate it from the Çoruh Valley, and stretches east-west along the southern shore of the Black Sea. Lazistan is a virtually a forbidden term in Turkey. the name was considered to be an 'unpatriotic' invention of ancien regime.\n\nLaz ancestral lands are not well-defined and there is no official geographic definition for the boundaries of Lazistan. However, the following provinces are usually included:\n\nHistorically, Lazistan was known for producing hazelnuts. Lazistan also produced zinc, producing over 1,700 tons in 1901. The traditional Laz economy was based on agriculture—carried out with some difficulty in the steep mountain regions and also on the breeding of sheep, goats, and cattle. Orchards were tended and bees were kept, and the food supply was augmented by hunting. The Laz are good sailors and also practise agriculture rice, maize, tobacco and fruit-trees. The only industries were smelting, celebrated since ancient times, and the cutting of timber used for shipbuilding.\n\nOver the past 20 years, there has been an upsurge of cultural activities aiming at revitalizing the Laz language, education and tradition. Kâzım Koyuncu, who in 1998 became the first Laz musician to gain mainstream success, contributed significantly to the identity of the Laz people, especially among their youth.\n\nThe Laz Cultural Institute was founded in 1993 and the Laz Culture Association in 2008, and a Laz cultural festival was established in Gemlik. The Laz community successfully lobbied Turkey's Education Ministry to offer Laz-language instruction in schools around the Black Sea region. In 2013, the Education Ministry added Laz as a four-year elective course for secondary students, beginning in the fifth grade.\n\nLazuri is a complex and morphologically rich tongue belonging to the South Caucasian language family whose other members are Mingrelian, Svanetian, and Georgian. The Laz language does not have a written history, thus Turkish and Georgian serve as the main literary languages for the Laz people. Their folk literature has been transmitted orally and has not been systematically recorded. The first attempts at establishing a distinct Laz cultural identity and creating a literary language based on the Arabic alphabet was made by Faik Efendisi in the 1870s, but he was soon imprisoned by the Ottoman authorities, while most of his works were destroyed. During a relative cultural autonomy granted to the minorities in the 1930s, the written Laz literature—based on the Laz script—emerged in Soviet Georgia, strongly dominated by Soviet ideology. The poet Mustafa Baniṣi spearheaded this short-lived movement, but an official standard form of the tongue was never established. Since then, several attempts have been made to render the pieces of native literature in the Turkish and Georgian alphabets. A few native poets in Turkey such as Raşid Hilmi and Pehlivanoğlu have appeared later in the 20th century.\n\nOne of the chief tribes of ancient kingdom of Colchis, the Laz were converted to Christianity while living under the Byzantine Empire and the Kingdom of Georgia. Trebizond, which was the only diocese established far in the past, Cerasous and Rizaion in Lazia, both formed as upgraded bishoprics. All three dioceses survived the Ottoman conquest (1461) and generally operated until the 17th century, when the dioceses of Cerasous and Rizaion were abolished. The diocese of Rizaion and the bishopric of Of were abolished at the time due to the Islamisation of the Lazs. Most of them subsequently converted to Sunni Islam.\n\nThere are also a few Christian Laz in the Adjaria region of Georgia who have converted to Christianity.\n\nFamous for its saga and myths and bounded by the Black Sea and the Caucasian Mountains, the ancient region of Colchis spreads out from West Georgia to Northeast Turkey. The famous tale in Greek mythology of the Golden Fleece in which Jason and the Argonauts stole the Golden Fleece from King Aeetes, with the help of his daughter Medea, has brought Colchis into the history books.\n\nKolkhoba is an ancient Laz festival. It is held at the end of August or at the beginning of September in Sarpi village, Khelvachauri District. Festival has revived the former lifestyle of Lazeti residents and moments of human relations typical to the times of ancient Greece and Colchis related to the Argonauts journey to Colchis. During the celebration of Kolkhoba theater performances are followed by a variety of activities and it is considered one of the main public festivals.\n\nThe national instruments include guda (bagpipe), kemenche (spike fiddle), zurna (oboe), and doli (drum). In the 1990s and 2000s, the folk-rock musician Kâzım Koyuncu attained to significant popularity in Turkey and toured Georgia. Koyuncu, who died of cancer in 2005, was also an activist for the Laz people and has become a cultural hero.\n\nThe Laz are noted for their folk dances, called the Horon dance of the Black Sea, originally of pagan worship which was to become a sacred ritual dance. There are many different types of this dance in different regions. Horon is related to those performed by the Ajarians known as Khorumi. These may be solemn and precise, performed by lines of men, with carefully executed footwork, or extremely vigorous with the men dancing erect with hands linked, making short rapid movements with their feet, punctuated by dropping to a crouch. The women's dances are graceful but more swift in movement than those encountered in Georgia. In Greece such dances are still associated with the Pontic Greeks who emigrated from this region after 1922.\n\nThe traditional Laz men's costume consists of a peculiar bandanalike kerchief covering the entire head above the eyes, knotted on the side and hanging down to the shoulder and the upper back; a snug-fitting jacket of coarse brown homespun with loose sleeves; and baggy dark brown woolen trousers tucked into slim, knee-high leather boots. The women's costume was similar to the wide-skirted princess gown found throughout Georgia but worn with a similar kerchief to that of the men and with a rich scarf tied around the hips. Laz men crafted excellent homemade rifles and even while at the plow were usually seen bristling with arms: rifle, pistol, powder horn, cartridge belts across the chest, a dagger at the hip, and a coil of rope for trussing captives.\n\nLaz cuisine specialities include:\n\n Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the leader of the early decades of the Republic, aimed to create a nation state () from the Turkish remnants of the Ottoman Empire. During the first three decades of the Republic, efforts to Turkify geographical names were a recurring theme. Imported maps containing references to historical regions such as Armenia, Kurdistan, or Lazistan (the official name of the province of Rize until 1921) were prohibited (as was the case with \"Der Grosse Weltatlas\", a map published in Leipzig).\n\nCultural assimilation into the Turkish culture has been high, and Laz identity was oppressed during the days of Ottoman and Soviet Rule. One of the pivotal moments was in 1992, when the book \"Laz History\" (\"Lazların tarihi\") was published. The authors had failed to have it published in 1964.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11431846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11431846", "title": "List of ornithological societies", "text": "List of ornithological societies\n\nThe following is a list of regional ornithological societies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20411472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20411472", "title": "Longuda people", "text": "Longuda people\n\nThe Longuda are a West African ethnic group living in Adamawa and Gombe States in northeastern Nigeria. They are the only known matriarchal tribe in Nigeria. The Longuda consider matrilineal descent in many aspects of their social organisation more important than the patrilineal descent. Clan membership may even be counted on the mother line. This custom is not found with their other neighbors or in other tribes of Nigeria. \n\nThe Longuda language is a branch of Adamawa.\n\nThe Longuda rulers default to the Kanuri style. The seat of the traditional ruler is in Guyuk, Adamawa State. According to oral tradition, the Longuda parted from the Kanuri in Borno State.\n\nTraditionally, the staple crop of the Longuda is Guinea Corn (\"Sorghum bicolor\"). This used to be grounded on stone hand mill and cooked into a thick paste, \"tuwo\", then eaten with vegetable soup. Today, however, rice, maize, and millet form part of the staple of the Longuda. Guinea Corn still remains the dominant crop grown by the Longuda.\n\nThe Longuda are primarily polygamous. The different dialects of the Longuda people perform marriage rites differently. Traditionally, a young man courting a woman invited his friends on the night he wished to take her as his bride, without her prior knowledge. The man and his friends would abduct the woman to his cottage, often a forceful act. Once the woman spent a night in his cottage, his family and hers considered them married. The bride price was usually paid afterwards. This abduction, which usually took place in the night, was not without resistance. The other young men in the woman's neighborhood would attempt to come to her rescue, and a free-for-all fight would ensue. The intending groom and his company usually had to win the duel in order to take the bride-to-be.\n\nHowever, in recent times, the influence of Christianity and cultural assimilation of neighboring societies have altered this practice. A watered-down version of this is still widely used. In this case, a man asks a woman for her consent, the woman agrees, and on an arranged night, the groom's friends and bride's friends secretly picks her and her clothing up from her parents' house, goes over to spend the night in the groom's uncle's house, leaving behind a token at the position where they used to sit during courtship and that seals the union. Taking her clothes along with her is her indication to everyone that she has agreed to marry the man.\n\nNewman, Bonnie. 1976. \"Deep and surface structure of the Longuda clause.\"\nNewman, Bonnie. 1978. \"The Longuda verb.\"\nNewman, John F. 1978. \"Participant orientation in Longuda folk tales.\"\nNewman, John F. and Bonnie Newman. 1974. \"Longuda.\"\nNewman, John F. and Bonnie Newman. 1977. Longuda dialect survey.\nNewman, John F. and Bonnie Newman. 1977. Longuda phonology.\n"}
{"id": "23582208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23582208", "title": "Maldivians", "text": "Maldivians\n\nMaldivians ( ދިވެހިން, \"divehin\"), also called Maldive Islanders, are a nation and ethnic group native to the historic region of the Maldive Islands comprising what is now the Republic of Maldives and the island of Minicoy in Union Territory of Lakshadweep, India. All Maldivians share the same culture and speak the Maldivian language which is a member of the southern group of Indo-Aryan languages. For ethnographic and linguistic purposes as well as geo-political reasons, anthropologists divide the Maldivian people into 3 subgroups:\n\nThere is no historical evidence about the origin of Maldivians; there is also no indication that there was any negrito or other aboriginal population, such as the Andamanese. No archaeology has been conducted to investigate the prehistory of the islands. There is, however, a Tamil–Malayalam substratum, in addition to other later cultural influences in the islands.\nBengali, Odia and Sinhalese people have had trading connections to Dhivehi people in the past.\n\nConjectures have been made by scholars who argue that the ancestors of Maldivian people arrived to the Maldives from North West and West India, from Kalibangan between 2500 and 1700 BC and that they formed a distinct ethnic group around the 6th century BC.\n\nAccording to Maldivian folklore the main myths of origin are reflecting the dependence of the Maldivians on the coconut tree and the tuna fish.\nA legend says that the first inhabitants of the Maldives died in great numbers, but a great sorcerer or \"fandita\" man made coconut trees grow out of the skulls of the buried corpses of the first settlers. Therefore, the coconut tree is said to have an anthropomorphic origin according to Maldive lore for this reason. The word naashi (coconut shell) is also the word used for skull in Dhivehi language.\nThe coconut tree occupies a central place in the present-day Maldive national emblem.\n\nThe tuna fish is said to have been brought to the Maldivian waters by a mythical seafarer (\"maalimi\") called Bodu Niyami Kalēfanu who went close to the Dagas (the mythical tree at the end of the world) to bring this valuable fish.\n\nOne of the earliest people who settled in the Maldives were from the Malabar Coast of India and northwestern shores of Sri Lanka, and are of Tamils and Malayalis ancestry\n, which is clear through strong Tamil–Malayalam substratum in language and culture. The Giraavaru people are considered as one of the earliest settlers.They were technologically advanced people, building sailing boats called dhonis.\n\nThese people used words such as \"varam\" for the islands in which they lived. Examples given in the old manuscript are: \"Noḷivaram\", \"Kuruhinnavaram\", and \"Girāvaram\". Many of the old terms used by Maldivian fishermen come from the Dravidian languages, leading one to the assumption that these terms were brought by people from southern coastal India in ancient times. Historical records show that in the southern and central atolls of the Maldives, occupations such as farming and weaving were important in the early days.\n\nA short time after the arrival of the Indo-Aryans and the introduction of the Hindu religion, a prince of India is said to have arrived in the Maldives. This is the period calculated earlier from oral tradition, and the story also corresponds to that from the \"Mahavamsa\" chronicle of Sri Lanka, about the king's son who was exiled from his country and arrived in Lanka, one of his ships losing its way and arriving in the Maldives. In the Maldivian legend, the prince who arrived in the Maldives, was the son of \"Brahmaditiya\", king of Kalinga (Brahmadatta, King of Kalinga at the time of Buddha's death c. 500 – 350 BC), a kingdom on the south-east of India (modern Orissa). King Brahmaditiya was displeased with his son and sent him to Dheeva Maari (Maldives). The name of this prince was \"Sri Soorudasaruna\".\nSri Soorudasaruna established a kingdom of the Adeetha Vansha Dynasty (Solar Dynasty) in Dhiva Maari, a short period before the reign of Emperor Ashoka in India. This would place the establishment of the first kingdom in the Maldives circa the 4th century BC. The tradition then states that Emperor Ashoka established his kingdom in Pataliputra in India, and that his people went preaching the religion and teachings of Buddha to a place called Bairat, to the west of Pataliputra. A group of people came to the Maldives from Bairat in order to teach the religion of Buddha. These people are said to have arrived in these islands during Ashoka's reign, probably when he sent Buddhist missionaries to all the neighbouring countries, in the 3rd century BC. At the time the Buddhist missionaries arrived in the Maldives, the country was called Dheeva Mahl. \nAround the 2nd century AD there was an influx of Arab traders who travelled and stopped by at the Maldives en route to the Far East – their first record of the Maldives islands, which they called Mahal Dibiyat, is from the Arab travellers. Maldives provided enormous quantities of cowry shells, an international currency of the early ages. The cowry is now the symbol of the Maldives Monetary Authority. It must have been an almost magical land at the time – forget money growing on trees, in the Maldives it was washed up on the shore! Mahal Dibiyat is the name given to the islands by medieval Arab travellers. \nAbu Al Barakat, a North African Arab, is credited with converting the Maldivians to Islam in 1153.\n\nThe myth of the origin of the ruling dynasty is the story of a prince named Koimala. In the Muslim traditions recorded in the \"Lōmāfānu\" and \"Rādavaḷi\" chronicles all the pre-Muslim royalty are represented by a king, whose successor was converted to Islam. The name Koimala Kalo is also suggestive: \"koi\" or \"koyi\" in Maldivian language means son, lad or prince (derived from Malayalam \"koya\", son, prince, master, cf. the Dravidian root \"kō\", king). The component \"malā\" may or may not be derived from \"māla\" as in Māla-dīv, but, if so, the name would mean 'prince of the Maldives'. The term \"kalō\" is a common word of man, used as a term of endearment. The title of former Maldivian kings was \"kattiri bovana mahaa radun\", 'Kattiri' (ކައްތިރި) meaning Kshatriya in Maldivian language.\n\nOne oral tradition says that the Giraavaru people are the indigenous people of the Maldives who were in the islands before Koimala arrived. They are of Tamil origin, and the earliest island community of the Maldives; their presence predates Buddhism and the arrival of Indo-Aryans in the archipelago. This may be the reason that the Dhivehi kinship system is partly of Dravidian origin, and bears evidence of some matriliny, like the Nayar and other matrilineal groups of Kerala. Some of the kinship terms are clearly derived from Malayalam.\n\nFive versions of the myth are given here and their significance in terms of culture history explained.\n\nOnce upon a time, when the Maldives were still sparsely inhabited, a prince of royal birth named Koimala, who had married the daughter of the king of Ceylon, made a voyage with her in two vessels from Srendib [Sri Lanka] Island. Reaching the Maldives they were becalmed and rested a while at Rasgetheemu island in North Maalhosmadulu Atoll.\n\nThe Maldive Islanders, learning that the two chief visitors were of Ceylon Royal descent invited them to remain; and ultimately proclaimed Koimala their king at Rasgetheemu, the original 'King's Island'.\n\nSubsequently, Koimala and his spouse migrated thence to Male' and settled there with the consent of the aborigines of Giraavaru Island, then the most important community of Male' Atoll.\n\nThe two ships were dispatched to Lanka, and brought over other people of 'the Lion Race' (Sinhalas).\n\nTo Koimala and his queen was born a male child who was called Kalaminja. He reigned as a Buddhist for twelve years, and was then converted to Islam, ruling for thirteen years more before finally departing for Mecca.\n\nThis ruler's daughter married the chief minister and reigned as a nominal Sultana. She gave birth to a son also called Kalaminja, who, in turn, married a lady of the country.\n\nFrom them the subsequent rulers of the Maldives were descended.\n\nOne day, while a hunter king of Sri Lanka was hunting, he caught a man-beast in his net. The man-beast couldn't walk, so the king taught him to do it. The man-beast then married the king's daughter, but he made political trouble in Sri Lanka, so was forced to leave. He and the princess arrived in Rasgetheemu and they lived there for some time, where the locals there asked them to rule them.\n\nThere was a king of India who was a hunter. Once, while out hunting with a net, he saw a creature which is like a human, but which walked on all fours, and which disturbed the people. This creature would also take hunters' nets and steal their prey, so the king couldn't get any catch. The king considered how he might capture this creature. He made big weights for his net, which no ordinary human could lift, and which would prevent the creature from taking the hunting net. One day, the king, with the help of many men, put the net over the creature, which could not get out because of the large stone weights. The king took the creature to the palace and looked after him well, and because he knew no language, the king taught him language, which took a long time. The creature started helping the king by showing him treasures in the forest, and the king came to respect him.\n\nThe king had a daughter who fell in love with this creature (in an alternate version, the king forced his daughter to marry the creature). The king, being angry, put the couple on a ship and sent them off into exile. Their ship came to Laam (Hadummati) Atoll (towards the south), where the exiled pair saw a crow which cried. They thought the crow was not a good omen, and it was therefore undesirable to land there, so they went on to Male'. They settled in what is now Sultan Park (site of the former palace) and started a kingdom.\n\nAfter fifteen years, a jinni began to come from the ocean every once a month and disturbed the people... (from here follows the story of the saint who came and dispelled the \"jinni\" and caused all the people to become converted to Islam from Buddhism and Hinduism).\n\nMaloney says Gujarat, with its indented coastline and its proximity to the old navigation routes of the Mesopotamian and Indus civilisations, has apparently maintained a tradition of navigation over the past 4000 years. Certainly the earliest Buddhist literature indicates active seafaring from its ports. It was from Gujarat that North Indian civilisation impinged upon the Maldives and Sri Lanka. From Gujarat, North Indian civilisation also expanded to Java and other parts of South-east Asia. The export of this civilisation to all coasts of South Asia and South-east Asia began about 500 B.C., but during the Mauryan period and the diffusion of Buddhism, sea traffic in the Bay of Bengal supplemented and, to some extent, surpassed that originating along the coasts of Western India. The long story of the cultural and economic expansion of North Indian civilisation by sea cannot be told here.\n\nThree \"Jataka\" tales cited above seem to refer to the Maldives, particularly the comment that exiles from Bharukaccha went to a thousand islands [Laccadive and Maldive islands] where they found standing room, and that these were near an island named for coconuts [Kerala]. This suggests that not only did seafarers emanating from Bharukaccha and Suppara visit the Maldives, but Gujaratis actually settled there in pre-Buddhist times. The other Jataka tales suggest that ships from Gujarat going to South-east Asia stopped in the Maldives, and that merchants in search of treasures sailed in several seas called – maala (or maara).\n\nThe Maldives might well have been settled parallel with the arrival of Indo-Aryan speakers in Sri Lanka, as suggested in the above interpretations of the Sri Lanka myths and the Koimala story.\n\nMariners from the north-western coasts of the peninsula, from the time they commenced sailing to southern India, must have on occasion been blown over to the Maldives—unmanned canoes and rafts from Kerala even now get wafted there from time to time – and the dangers of shipwreck vividly described in several of the \"Jātakas\" might have arisen from contact with some of the thousands of reefs in the Maldives, which sailors have long dreaded. It may be, therefore, that shipwrecked Gujaratis, as well as exiles, were early settlers on the islands of the Laccadive-Maldives archipelago.\n\nAll Maldivians are native to the historic region of the Maldive Islands comprising what is now the Republic of Maldives and the island of Minicoy in Union territory of Lakshadweep, India. The secession of Minicoy from Maldivian rule and affiliating with the Indian government gradually led to the emergence of a Maldivian population of Indian citizenship who came to be known as Mahls.\n\nAccording to figures 100% of the Maldivian population are ethnic Maldivians excluding the foreigners in the country. Being the heartland of Maldivian people, more than 97% of all Maldivians are from the Maldives. For all the Maldivian communities across the world (including the people of Minicoy) their origin lies in the Maldives. The Maldivian community of the Maldives consist of the two major groups from the three subgroups of Maldivians: The main group of Maldivians and the southern group of Maldivians (also known as Suvadivians) respectively.\n\nAs a result of some political activities which occurred in the South during the early 1960s, the term \"Suvadivian\" has been adopted by some authors to refer to the southern group of Maldivians. From 1959 to 1963 there was a short-lived breakaway government named United Suvadive Republic which was formed by the Southerners, from which the name originated though there are no such native names. The names Suvadive and Suvadivian suggest that the origin of the names lye in the ancient name for the three southernmost atolls of Huvadhu, Fuvahmulah and Addu which was Suvadiva.\n\nThe Suvadivians, living in the three southernmost atolls of the equatorial zone (Huvadhu, Fuvahmulah and Addu atolls) number approximately 60,000 and constitute about 20% of the total population of Maldivians. According to researchers, this group of Maldivians have the closest proximity to the original Maldivian people in terms of linguistics as well as on ethnic grounds. The reason behind this suggested by researchers and proven from historical records is that there were less interference from the outside world to this group. Unlike the other group of Maldivians, this group was not affected by the Portuguese rule in the Maldives as it does not exceed the Suvadiva channel. Also there were no interference from traders and travellers as much as in the case of the other.\n\nEach of the 3 atolls of the Suvadiva region speak their own distinctive forms of the Maldivian language (\"Huvadhu bas\", \"Mulaku bas\" and \"Addu bas\"), which are much different from the rest and as suggested by researchers, having a closer affinity to what may have been the original. Thus, the native features of the original Maldivian people are preserved in this group greater than any other group of Maldivians.\n\nUnlike the southern minority, this group of Maldivians were subject to foreign intercourse. There were numerous occasions of reported interference from outsiders such as traders, travellers, etc... Also, the Portuguese rule and many other factors pushed this group into a state that imported materials got mixed into their linguistics as well as ethnic background to a large extent.\n\nThe secession of Minicoy from Maldivian rule and affiliating with the Indian government gradually led to the emergence of a Maldivian population holding Indian citizenship. This group of Maldivians consist of the people of Minicoy and migrant communities from Minicoy across India and elsewhere. Except for the people from Minicoy, there is no community of ethnic Maldivians with Indian citizenship. This group of Maldivians are officially referred as Mahls. The people locally identify themselves as \"Malikun\". The Mahls make up the third subgroup of Maldivians.\n\n\"Mahls\" are the third subgroup of Maldivians centred in the island of Minicoy making up the only community of ethnic Maldivians in India. This group has its own dialect (called \"Maliku bas or Mahl\") which retains some features of archaic Maldivian language, and shows Malayalam influences as well. Still, the dialect is mutually intelligible with the standard dialect of Maldivian and is more related to the slighter variants of northern Maldives.\n\nIn case of linguistics and ethnic grounds, this group of Maldivians are identical to the main group of Maldivians in the Maldives. However, the secession of Minicoy from Maldivian rule and gradually becoming part of India, thus becoming the only group of ethnic Maldivians with a non-Maldivian citizenship made anthropologists to label the Mahls among the subgroups. The isolation of this group from the rest of the Maldivians and the acculturation process which the Mahls are undergoing as a result of this as well as the change in nationality is one of the reasons for separation of this group from the main group of Maldivians. The origin of this group like any other group of Maldivians lie in the Maldives. The story of the \"Tivarun\", the linguistics of the people in Minicoy and many other factors prove this side of the story.\n\nMahls are the only community of ethnic Maldivians (excluding migrant communities) outside the Republic of Maldives. They make up about 3% of the total population of all Maldivians.\n\nMost Mahls live in their native land of Maliku (Minicoy). Mahls are 15.67% of the total population of Lakshadweep emerging as a separate ethnic group among the rest of the population. All Mahl communities in India emerged from Minicoy.\n\nThere are Mahl communities (migrant communities from Minicoy) in other parts of India too. A number of Mahls have settled in the districts of Kozhikode, Malappuram, Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum) in the southern state of Kerala. The ancestors of present Mahl communities in Kerala migrated from Minicoy and settled there in the 17th century, when the islands of Lakshadweep came under the rule of Ali Rajahs/Arakkal Bheevi of Kannur.\n\nSince 1957, this group of Maldivians in Minicoy are totally off-limits for their Maldivian counterparts in the Maldives. The direct transport between Minicoy and the Maldives was forbidden by the Indian government. Thus, this Indian group of Maldivians are steadily undergoing a process of acculturation owing to lack of contact with the remaining Maldivian people and pressure to use other languages such as Malayalam, English and Hindi. This proves to have a big influence upon the culture, linguistics and other day-to-day affairs of this group of Maldivians.\n\nA significant number of Maldivian emigrant communities can be found in several countries. The emigrant communities could only be located from the Maldivian side as it is only the Maldivians who are all of the same ethnicity unlike India where the presence of thousands of cultures and ethnicities make the records more stringent on this matter. Since ethnic Maldivians of Minicoy are only no more than 0.0015% of the total population of India compared to 100% for their counterparts in the Maldives, it is only from the Maldivian embassies across the world that this information could be gathered.\n\nThere are approximately 10,000 people of Maldivian ethnicity living in Sri Lanka, as of 2006.\n\nIn 1899, Professor John Stanley Gardiner visited Maldives, during which time; he collected anthropometrical data of a number of Maldivians from many islands. Analysis of this data by Dr. Wynfrid Duckworth, suggested that there were three major sources of immigration into the country. These are:\n(Duckworth 1912: 8–30).\n\nIn 1997, a Maldivian NGO, Society for Health Education, conducted a study on the mutations of thalassaemia found in the Maldives. This study showed one mutation that probably originated in the Middle East, another mutation which could have been derived from Portuguese or Algerians, and another which probably originated from South Asia and Malays. The observations are consistent with the historical records of Maldives, showing that early travellers from India, Indonesia, North Africa, the Red Sea and Persian Gulf areas, settled in the Maldives. (Firdous \"et al.\" 1998:148,149). Thalassaemia is the commonest genetically transmitted blood disease found in Maldives, and the results of this study suggest that many of the people now living in Maldives had ancestors who came from the above-mentioned countries.\n\nAnthropological studies as well as ethnographic and linguistic researches suggest that in terms of ancestry Maldivians share similar genes principally with the Sinhalas of Sri Lanka as well as northern Indian populations, such as Marathis, Konkanis and Gujaratis with traces of Arab, Malay, southern Indian and North African genes in the population.\n\nIn 2013, genetic study about the Maldivian population by department of Human Genetics, Liden University, which was published online on the \"American Journal of Physical Anthropology\" has revealed very interesting facts about the genetic origin of Maldivian people.\nThe research studied autosomal DNA-, mitochondrial DNA-, and Y-chromosomal DNA markers in a representative sample of 141 unrelated Maldivians, with 119 from six major settlements. The researchers found a total of 63 different mtDNA haplotypes that could be allocated to 29 mtDNAs, mostly within the M, R and U clades. They also found 66 different Y-STR haplotypes in 10 Y chromosome haplogroups, predominantly R1a1, R2, H, L and J2. The study concluded that their new genetic data agree with the commonly reported Maldivian ancestry in South Asia, but furthermore suggest multiple, independent immigration events and asymmetrical migration of females and males across the archipelago.\n\nThe genetic study confirmed that the most likely origin of the Maldivian population is in South Asia with possible gene flow from the Middle East. Also it has pointed out that the Dhivehi language of the Maldives being the southernmost Indo-Aryan language, and sharing of specific haplogroups with Indo-Aryan populations mostly from India and from Sri Lanka, could point to a common origin of these populations.\n\nMaldivians have strong feelings towards the Maldivian language. It has historically been, and to large extent still is, central to the Maldivian identity. Unlike the other languages of South India, it is an Indo-European language, while other South Indian languages are Dravidian languages. However the language shows some influences of neighbouring Dravidian languages on it, and have a number of loanwords from Dravidian vocabulary.\n\nThe Maldivians are primarily Muslims, adhering to the Sunni school of thought. In the Maldives which is the heartland of Maldivians and home for more than 97% of the Maldivian people, the national religion is Islam. Islam is the country's state religion as well as the backbone of the society with daily life in the country being regulated according to the tenets of Islam and government regulations too being based on the regulations of Islamic law (Shari'a). The law of the country prohibits the practice of any other religion by the country's citizens. In general all Maldivians from the island of Minicoy too are Sunni Muslims. There may be a few Maldivians who do not follow Islam, though the public expression of such beliefs is virtually non-existent in Maldivian societies.\n\nEven though most of the Maldivians are very religious, ancient beliefs survived until recently: for example, the islanders feared jinnis (evil spirits) which were believed to come from the sea, land and sky. These were blamed for everything that cannot be explained by religion or science. Today, these kind of beliefs are on the verge of vanishing completely from Maldivian communities and can only be observed rarely.\n\nMost traditional Maldivian art is influenced by Perso-Arabic tradition in some form and usually centres on Islam, since almost all the Maldivians are Muslims. The skill of visual art and architecture among the Maldivians is centered in the Maldives since the people of Minicoy are mainly sailors.\n\nVarious fine art practices exist in the Maldives at present. Primary among them is drawing and painting. Sculpture and crafts that overlap with art making also exist in the country. However, due to various limitations, they have not flourished as art forms. Painting and drawing also exist in similar circumstances. Lack of avenues in which to exhibit, and lack of arts education and training, combined with a growing understanding that these arts are best served in the tourist souvenir trade, has hampered a healthy development of these arts.\nHowever, with the establishment of private galleries and with various exhibitions organized by the government and the artists themselves, in the last 15 years, the awareness that painting can be an expressive art form apart from also being a lucrative commercial activity has provided encouragement for several young Maldivians to pursue painting, and to an extent sculpture and other public and commercial art forms. Renewed interest in these arts have also led to various individuals to pursue on their own whatever education they can obtain, whether through distance learning courses from foreign universities, or via books and magazines. In addition, privately funded students have also been obtaining arts education and training at undergraduate and graduate levels in international universities.\nMore indirectly, artists also get the opportunity to meet foreign artists through the tourism trade when foreign artists visit the country as tourists. This provides the much needed contact with artists that is so necessary to the development of any art form.\nUntil recently, fine arts in the Maldives have been usually defined as the various crafts and skills of craft making. These include the use of locally found materials to produce decorative and functional objects such as mats, hand held or displayed objects, etc. The present situation of the arts has come about because of a lack of critical and theoretical interpretation and a lack of dialogue and discourse in an organized, sustained or documented form.\n\nThe traditional Maldivian performing arts have Indian and even African roots.\n\nMartial arts among Maldivians are known as \"hevikamuge kulhivaruthak\", while \"gulhamathi hifun\" is traditional wrestling among Maldivians.\n\nMost of the Maldivian festivals are related to Islam, however there are some festivals which belongs to old Maldivian traditions, like kite flying festival. Naming a newborn child, \"Mauloodhu\" (a prayer accompanied with festive meal), Eid festival and circumcision of male child are few events that take place where the taste of rich cultural 'cocktail' can be experienced.\n\nA traditional meal called \"Keyn\" is prepared for the above \"Mauloodhus\" consisting of a number of courses. A single Keyn would serve 10 – 12 people and includes rice, curries, salads, grilled fish, coconut cream, coconut syrup, bananas, puddings and other delights.\n\nKeyn is set out in a very large wooden dish called a \"Malaafaiy\". The outside of this dish is placed within the dish and small individual plates are filled with curries, salads, and other items and set around the rice. This would be covered with the lid and wrapped in a white cloth and tied at the top. At the meal times this would be carried into the \"Mauloodh Haruge\" (dining hall specially made for this event) and placed on straw mats for service. Individual plates and other food items in individual dishes are placed as well. Beverages are individually set in glasses. Water is served in a ceramic jug. Food is consumed using the fingers of the right hand. At the end of the meal hand is washed using a copper jug into a copper basin. 10 December is marked as \"Kandu Rōdi duvas\" and 14 April as \"Gamu Rōdi duvas\" on which date Maldivian language day is marked from 2011 onwards.\n\nTraditionally Maldivian men wear a Mundu with a shirt, it is very similar to that of Malayali people. Maldivian women wear a red-top called a Libaas and a long black skirt.\n\nRice, the major staple food in most Maldivian households, is usually cooked and served with \"Garudiya\" (Tuna Fish soup). Here are some of the speciality cuisines.\n\nBocholhi\n\nMade of rice flour, coconut – semi-firm (grated) and coconut palm syrup by mixing all the ingredients until freed from lump and cooked over a moderate heat until the mixture is thickened.\n\nGodhan Furhu Boa Folhi\n\nMade of flour, coconut – semi-hard (blended to a smooth paste), eggs, coconut cream, jasmine water, coconut palm syrup, cinnamon powder, cardamom powder and oil by mixing all the ingredients apart from the oil together. Cooked over a moderate heat and once the top of the pancake dries up, turned over and cooked.\n\nHan’dulu Aurus\n\nMade of rice (soaked overnight), washed and blended to a smooth paste), coconut palm syrup, Jasmine water and jasmine flowers by placing all the ingredients apart from the flowers in a thick-bottomed pan and cooked over a moderate heat by stirring constantly to avoid the mixture getting stuck to the bottom. Wrapped entirely with banana leaf and placed jasmine flowers over the sweets. This sweet will keep for two to three months without spoiling.\nHan’dulu Furhu Kubus\n\nMade of Patna Rice (soaked overnight, washed and blended to a smooth paste), coconut – semi-firm (grated), coconut palm syrup, caster sugar, banana leaf by cooking over a moderate heat the grated coconut, palm sugar and caster sugar until the mixture has thickened. Removed from heat and allowed cooling and added in the blended rice and kneaded thoroughly and combined all the ingredients well. Divided the mixture into eight portions and placed each portion on a banana leaf and wrapped entirely to seal and wrapped a second banana leaf around it and secured well.\n\nDug a suitable hole in the ground in which all the wrapped dough pieces could be placed neatly. Placed coconut fibres and coconut shells and burned them in the dug hole and removed the charcoals.\n\nPlaced banana leaves within the hole and placed the wrapped dough in the heated hole and placed neatly one against another.\n\nCovered the dough parcels placed in the hole with another large piece of banana leaf and covered the leaf with two-inch white sand. Placed the charcoals and coconut fibres and coconut shells over it and burned the coconut fibres and shells for half an hour.\n\nLeft the cooked kubus parcels overnight in the hole. In the morning scraped off the burnt ashes and charcoals aside and the sand covering the banana leaf and slowly lifted the wrapped kubus parcels.\n\nHukkaru\n\nMade of coconut palm syrup by boiling the syrup over a moderate heat and cooked by stirring continuously until it starts to thicken. Removed from heat and whisked until frothy and cooled.\nHuni Folhi\n\nMade of Patna Rice flour, coconut – semi-hard (grated), coconut palm syrup by cooking all the ingredients over a moderate heat in a thick-bottomed pan stirring continuously.\n\nWhen the mixture starts to come loose from the side of the pan removed from heat and taken a tablespoonful of the cooked mixture, spread on a cork wood leaf. Smoked and dried the leaves spread with the sweet over the fireplace.\n\nKarukuri Banbukeyo\n\nMade of fried bread fruit (crushed coarsely), coconut palm syrup, jasmine water by bringing the syrup and the jasmine water to boil and cooked it over a moderate heat until it comes to ribbon stage. Added in the crushed breadfruit into the sugar and coated well. Removed from heat, allowed cooling and kept in an airtight container.\n\nKarukuri Ala\n\nMade of fried taro (crushed coarsely), coconut palm syrup and jasmine water by boiling the syrup and the jasmine water and cooked it over a moderate heat until it comes to ribbon stage. Added in the crushed taro in to the sugar and coated well. Removed from heat, allowed cooling and kept in an airtight container.\n\nKulhi Bis Fathafolhi\n\nMade of Patna Rice flour, coconut (grated), Rihaakuru, Rihaakuru Bondi (blended), eggs, onion (sliced thinly), curry leaves (chopped), cherry pepper, juice of two limes, ginger, salt to season and oil by crushing the onion, curry leaves, cherry pepper, ginger with salt. Added and mixed the rice flour and coconut to make sandy texture. Formed a bay in the center of the rice mixture and add in the eggs and Rihaakuru and Rihaakuru Bondi. Mixed/kneaded the dough and divided the dough into 15 gram balls. Spread each ball to about ¼ inch thickness. Cut using a round cutter of 3 – inch diameter and pre-heated oil.\n\nMeeraa\n\nMade of coconut sap (collected at noon) by boiling the sap over a moderate heat and cooked by stirring continuously until it comes to ribbon stage. Removed from heat, greased a large tray and taken a spoonful of the cooked thickened syrup and placed it over the greased sheet in strings.\n\nThela Kubus\n\nMade of Patna Rice flour, coconut palm syrup, eggs and coconut oil by whisking the egg and the syrup and added in the rice flour and beaten further. Poured a table spoonful of the mixture into the oil and deep-fried until golden.\n\nThelli Keyo\n\nMade of plantain (peeled and cut length-wise) and oil by frying the bananas until crisped. Drained on absorbent kitchen paper and kept airtight container.\n\nVeli Hakuru\n\nMade of coconut palm syrup by boiling the syrup over a moderate heat and cooked by stirring continuously until it starts to crystallise. Removed from heat, allowed cooling and put into jars and seal well.\n\nOther Cuisines Regularly Cooked\n\n\nA generation ago, most Maldivian people were not commonly known by their birth names. Instead they were called by an alternative name such as Dohuttu, Lahuttu, Tutteedi, Kudamaniku, or Don Goma. The rationale behind this practice was that if the evil spirits did not know one's real name, one would be free from their spells. However ancient Maldivian naming system is similar to that of Gujaratis and Marathas. Even now some people follow that system. For example, the first name of historian Mohamed Ibrahim Lutfy is \"Mohamed;\" \"Ibrahim\" is his father's name, and \"Lutfy\" is the family name.\n\nFrequent Maldivian family names include Bee, Beefan, Boo, Didi, Fan, Fulhu, Kader, Kalaminja, Kalinga, Kalo, Kavah, Kavya, Koi, Koya, Manik, Manika, Manike, Manikfan, Naha, Raha, Rana, Tarkan, Thakhan, Thakur, Thakurfan, Veer.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49097095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49097095", "title": "Modern Arabic literature", "text": "Modern Arabic literature\n\nThe instance that marked the shift in the whole of Arabic literature can be attributed to the contact that took place between the Arab World and the West during the 19th and early 20th century. This contact resulted with the gradual replacement of Classical Arabic forms with the Western ones, as exemplified in plays, novels, and short stories. Although the exact date in which this reformation occurred is not known, the process is usually referred to as the Arabic \"nahda\" (revival or renaissance)\n\nThe development that Arabic Literature witnessed by the end of the 19th century was not merely in the form of reformation; both Germanos Farhat (1732) and al-Allusi in Iraq had previously attempted to inflict some development on literature in the 18th century. On the other hand, modern Arabic literature fully appeared through the interdependence between two important movements: the revival of the classical Arabic tradition and the translation of foreign literature. Advocates of the former movement began their work at the onset of the 19th century to resist the decline Arabic literature and its styles were facing. High quality traditional literary models were thus disseminated and imitated to create new literary models. Meanwhile, proponents of the translation movement, included authors such as Ibrahim al-Yaziji (1871) from the Levant, Ali Mubarak (1893) from Egypt, and Mahmoud Shukri al-Alusi (1923) from Iraq. Both Mubarak and al-Yaziji wrote the Maqamat (lengthy literary works of rhymed prose) \"Alam Eddin\" and \"Majma' al-Bahrain\" [Where Two Seas Meet] respectively, while al-Alusi wrote \"Balaghat al-Arab\" [The Eloquence of Arabs]. Other factors including journalism and the literature of the diaspora helped in the shaping and development of the Arabic literature.\n\nThe translation movement began on the hands of Egypt's Governor Muhammad Ali Pasha while forming his army. He fostered the movement by importing the first printer in 1828 A.D. to Egypt (the second printer was brought later to Syria). Among the most prominent translators during that time was Rif'a Rifa'a al-Tahtawi, who translated many scientific books for the army's use. Al-Tahtawi's influence is mostly recognized, however, in his \"Talkhis al-Ibriz\" or 'Paris's Profile', in which he documented his visit to Paris. This book, written in a rather modern style, is an account of the political and social conditions in France during that time. Al-Tahtawi was also the translator of the first literary novel into Arabic 'Tilimak' by French writer Fenelon. However, the mark al-Tahtawi left on the literary reformation was witnessed later via his different contributions.\n\nMost of the early novels to have been translated into Arabic were of French works. Famous works including Alexandre Dumas's \"Le Comte de Monte Cristo\", Jules Verne's Cinq Semaines en Ballon, and many others from different genres, were readily translated and Arabized, and found a large readership through their circulation in journals.\n\nSchools that were established in Beirut and Tunisia for authorship and translation affected, and were in turn influenced by, the direct impact of missionaries in Lebanon. These missionaries were led by Butrus al-Bustani (1883), Ahmad Faris al-Shidyaq (1887), Ibrahim al-Yaziji (1906), and, from Tunisia, Mohamed Bayram (1889). All of these missionaries helped in the establishment of Arabic journalism, which was the main force (second to the revival of traditional Arabic literature and the translation movement) in initiating the new literary movement. In Egypt, journalism, first aided by intellectuals from the Levant, and later becoming a genuine Egyptian force, was considered the pivotal ingredient that polished new literary styles and helped in the dissemination of ideas and opinions. It was the natural and organic atmosphere for the development of modern Arabic literature.\n\nIn the final thirty years of the 19th century, the growth of journalism helped in the emergence of notable figures in literature. It also created a comprehensive image of the stages of the development of the literary prose genres-excluding poetry- until the First World War. On the pages of the newspapers and journals came the powerful classical prose of Muhammad Abduh (1905), and the nationalist-laden expressive prose of Saad Zaghloul in al-Waqa'i' al-Masriyya [Egyptian Affairs] newspaper. We also saw Muhammad al-Muwailihi's rhythmic prose (1930), al-Manfaluti's sweet romantic prose (1924), as well as the works of Jurji Zaydan (1914), Yagob Sarrof (1927), and Qasim Amin (1908) that relied on uniform ideas and lucid expressions to perform social-educational purposes.\n\nAs for romantic valor (Hamasah), such as the works of Mustafa Kamil (1908) and Wali Eddin Yakun (1921), it first appeared in journals. Other forms of literary genres such as sardonic narratives mixed with colloquialisms, as in the works of Yaqub Sanu (1912) and Abdullah al-Nadim (1896), gained their socio-literary power from appearing in journals.\n\nFrom the American diaspora emerged the new Pen League of authors like Gibran (1931) and al-Rihani (1940). The works produced by members of this league quickly spread through the Middle East, as new currents in modern Arabic prose took shape. Gibran, for instance, not only published works in both Arabic and English, but attempted to self-translate some of his works, such as his collection entitled Sand and Foam (1926).\n\nThe translation movement also revived on the hands of the literary figures of the league. Although the Pen's translation did not directly affect the development of modern literature (unlike the translations of al-Manfaluti and Othman Jalal); translation, as that undertaken during Ibn al-Muqaffa' and al-Jahiz's time, did, nevertheless, help in finding the true literary essence in both Arabic and foreign literature. Without translation, regardless of its quality, modern Arabic literature would not have reached different horizons.\n\nTranslation also influenced the Arabic repertoire of imageries and ideas. Most importantly, it introduced new literary genres, such as novels, plays, short stories, articles, etc. The first effect of translation was in the adaptations of foreign plays. It began with Maroun al-Naqqash's (1855) adaptation of Moliere, and Najib Haddad's (1866) translations of Corneille, Hugo, Dumas, and Shakespeare. However, the most successful attempts in the adaptations of foreign dramas were on the hands of Muhammad Othman Jalal (1898), who adapted from Molière, and Arabized the novel \"Paul and Virginie\" . Despite all these efforts, the play, as a distinct literary genre, did not reach its full popularity until the 20th Century.\n\nArabic literature was not entirely lacking of narrative prose. There existed many lengthy works of literature such as 'Kitab al-Aghani' [The Book of Songs] by al-Isfahani, 'Qisas al-anbiya'a' [The Stories of Prophets] by al-Tha'alibi, as well as the eloquent maqama. This latter work, characterized by its embellishing rhythmic prose style, is thought to be the invention of al-Hamadani's (1008).\n\nThe realization of the novel underwent extensive efforts to reach its full, complete form. The first attempts in writing novels were on the hands of Jurji Zaydan in his historical novel 'Sukot' [Silence], and Farah Antun's (1922) experimentation in the analytical novel. Other writers benefited from the foreign repertoire in discussing social and political matters. Non-fiction Arabic books were hence written to reflect new current concerns as well as the authors' thoughts and convictions. This is clearly present in the writings of al-Kawakibi (1093) in 'Taba'i al-Istibdad wa-Masari' al-Isti'bad' (The Nature of Despotism) and 'Umm al-Qura', as well as Qasim Amin's 'Tahrir al-Mar'a' [The Liberation of the Woman]. Authors like Aisha Taymur (1902) and Malak Hifni Nasif (1918) were also inspired by the foreign cultures but maintained-along with Qasim Amin- an Islamic and didactic spirit.\n\nPoetry, on the other hand, was not affected by foreign models until First World War, and remained in its ridged form that was prevalent since the age of decadence. Nonetheless, poetry was slightly affected by some of the nationalistic issues and debates taking place across the Arab World. Famous poets of the period included Samy el-Baroudy (1904), Ahmed Shawqi (1932), and Hafez Ibrahim (1932) from Egypt. These poets differed in their styles, sense of solidarity, and the degree of involvement in nationalist events. However, their names are usually associated with the rise of the neo-classical movement in poetry.\n\nIbrahim al-Mazini (1949) was probably among the most prominent authors who employed his style in the production of new literary themes, when he wrote his successful social novel \"Ibrahim al-Kateb\" [Ibrahim the Writer], which was essentially a description of current social norms. Since then, the novel flourished through the contributions of many authors like: Tawfiq al-Hakim in 'Awdat erroh' [The return of the Spirit] (1933), followed by al-Aqqad's \"Sara\" (1933), Taymour's 'Nida'a al-Majhoul' [The Call of the Unknown] (1939), while Farid Abu Hadid wrote the all-Arabic novel 'Ibnat al-Muluk' [The Daughter of Kings]. The success this novel attained later supported Zaydan in his own endeavors.\n\nAs for the psycho-analytical novel, it was introduced by Taha Hussein for the first time in his autobiographical novel 'Al-Ayyam' [the Days] (1926). This novel was one of the greatest works of modern Arabic literature with its themes, style and depiction of life.\n\nSocial themes along with reformations in the field of poetry were not greatly affected despite the attempts some poets such as Khalil Mutran to inflict some changes on the genre. Other attempts were made by al-Zahawi (1936) and al-Rasafi (1954) in Iraq, though with little or no implications. This can be due to the fact that poetry in Iraq did not suffer the same decline as it did in Egypt and the Levant, which were under unstable political circumstances.\n\nAfter the war, modern Arabic literature changed dramatically. Topics such as modernity and social change, and people's interests and doubts, all became the center of the new themes of literature. The first to have undertaken this change are the disciples of Mohammad Abduh, who were advocates of liberated and innovative thought. These students eventually governed 'al-Jaridah' [The Newspaper] and 'al-Siyasah [The Politics], two newspapers which were jointly edited by Lutfy Asyyed and Muhammad Husayn Haykal. These newspapers also proliferated the new literary genres of novels, stories, articles and plays. One of the first successful realizations of these genres was Haykal's novel 'Zaynab' (1914) which demonstrated the difficulty of wielding Arabic rhetoric in writing the social novel. Mohammad Taymour (1921) tried to overcome these difficulties with his novel 'Ma taraho al-Oyon' [What the eyes see], a task that was supported by his brother's (Mahmoud Taymour) efforts. Many others including Issa Obeid, Shahata Obeid, and Taher Lasheen contributed to the novel, yet were never able to reach the elevated stylistic and linguistic abilities of the Taymour brothers in their portrayal of a realistic and vivid life.\n\nAuthors in Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, and the American Diaspora all tired their hands out in writing many short stories. However, it was the article, of all genres, that had undergone profound development and change. The reason for that is due to the rise of and the attention journals and newspapers received since the 1919 revolution. The articles changed in style and form and were tailored towards discussing various topics, including social and political issues, literature, religion, etc. It eventually reached the elevated level of its foreign counterpart. Among the important topics discussed in articles were the reformation of the Arabic culture and its comparison with foreign traditions and civilizations, including Latin and Greek traditions.\n\nAs for the writers of the 'article', they included Taha Hussein and al-Aqqad, advocates of innovation of style; the conservative Rashid Rida (1935) who wrote for al-Manar Magazine; as well as Farid Wajdi and Mostafa Saadeq al-Rafe'ie (1937). From Syria, there was Muhammad Kurd Ali (1952), and from Lebanon and the Diaspora we had Mikha'il Na'ima (1889). Whether they were supporters of innovative or traditional styles, these authors played an important role in reforming old and new notions of both extreme ends; they founded a balance between the two directions after an extensive filtration of ideas and opinions. In addition, these authors influenced the following current of thought which promoted scientific reasoning in the process of writing the article. Later on, social criticism, which had already become an active element in the article, found its place in the novel. For example, this could be seen clearly in the novels of Tawfiq al-Hakim, Husayn Fawzi's 'The Modern Sindibad\", as well as in the works of Naguib Mahfouz, Hassan Kamil, and many more. Subsequent to that, the novel took a turn in realism, disregarded style, and promoted many political currents, particularly after the Second world War.\n\nAs is the case with other literary genres, the first accounts of plays during that period were in the form of translations and adaptations of Western works. Gradually, however, the stage, particularly in Egypt, reached its full potency as Egyptian dramatist began writing plays that reflected the current socio-political situation of the country and its people. A major theme that was recurrent in most of the plays was the West-East struggle; an issue that seemed to have both coincided and aggravated the search for an Egyptian national identity.\n\nThe shift towards realism that took place in writing the novel extended to the play. Dramatic plays, particularly in Egypt, flourished immensely, and subsequently dominated the rest of the Arab world. In that reals, Mahmoud Taymour was the first to experiment with the social realist play, but it did not reach its full potency except on the hands of Tawfiq al-Hakim, who mastered motifs and mental representations, utilized Pharaonic, Islamic, and Western myths, and wrote remarkable cognitive plays such as 'Ahl al-Kahf' [the People of the Cave], and 'Scheherazade'. He also wrote social plays including 'al-Sultan al-Ha'er' [the Bewildered Sultan]. Shawqi's contributions to the poetic theater, taken up later by Aziz Abaza, are noticeable for their dealing with historical and classical themes.\n\nThe employment of colloquial Arabic within the dialogues of the plays was a central issue in studying Arab litterateurs and their motives behind such act. The issue, however, was not as prominent in novels and stories as it was in plays. Nevertheless, al-Hakim and Taymour both tried to utilize colloquialisms in dialogues in both novels and stories, yet their success did not stop the debate that had risen as a result. In fact, it led Taymour to refrain from using colloquialisms in his writings, and he rewrote his previous works by replacing any colloquialisms with Modern Standard Arabic. Despite many efforts to create a distinct colloquial literature, particularly in Lebanon, all attempts failed. Reaching a necessary compromise between the two was done by simplifying the Standard form and elevating the status of the colloquial. However, judgments of this issue and its implications are yet to be explored, although some argue that the use of colloquialism in Arabic drama is a direct result from the interaction with the Western forms of literary production.\n\nBoth the spread of education and of Standard Arabic offered solutions for the instability the Arabic status was facing. Some of these solutions were due to the journal article as it created a new form of prose, characterized by precision and an ability to portray reality in a way that surpassed eloquent prose, where meaning in the latter is not definite, and gives the sense of the older era of Arabia. Through this new variety of language, the modern author was now able to find in the Standard form of Arabic many specific expressions that allowed him to portray reality.\n\nPoetry made way for prose, particularly after the war. While the influence of Western literature accelerated the production of innovative literary prose in Arabic, poetry was slower in liberating itself from classical poetic forms and creating new rhythms and melodic moods. As classical Arabic poetry held an important position in the literary heritage of the Arabs, it is not surprising that the first attempts in renewing the poetic forms would be by a re-employment of these traditional forms.\n\nInsofar as Suleyman al-Boustani's (1925) attempt in introducing new forms by a rather mediocre translation of the Iliad into Arabic, the role it played was weaker than to be mentioned in the movement towards reformation.\n\nNationalist poetry was an important element in the progression of modern verse, whose doyen is Tunisian poet Aboul-Qacem Echebbi (1934). Echebbi succeeded in using traditional models and imageries to present new and powerful reflections of the current time. Others tried to create psychological effects by playing with rhymes and old structures. Gradually, classical poetic forms were replaced by newer forms. The guiding force behind that change is due to literary schools of thought such as al-Diwan Group, led mainly by poets al-Aqqad, al-Mazini, and Abdel Rahman Shokry (influenced by neo-romanticism); School of Northern Diaspora, known as the Pen League, that include Elia Abu Madi; and the School of Southern Diaspora, known as the Andalusian League, that included Rashid Salim al-Khoury and Fawzi Ma'louf. Members of all these schools called for a change in the poetic production. They also advocated liberating poetry from classical forms, as well as a call for sincerity of emotions, self-inspiration, and portrayal of direct feelings.\n\nThe result of these efforts was a powerful Romantic poetry (Ghazal). The pioneers of this type of poetry were the members of the Apollo Group. Led by Ahmed Zaki Abu Shadi (1955), and competing against the New School of Mutran in Egypt, and Abu Shabaka's in Lebanon, the Diwan Poets, and the Leagues, the Apollo Group was more liberated and largely influenced by Western Romanticism. The Apollo Group's contributions to the new, unrestricted forms of poetry is largely manifested in the periodical \"'Apollo\"', a magazine that fostered and proliferated both traditional and innovative styles of poetry.\n\nWhile al-Aqqad and other poets in Iraq remained faithful to classical forms of poetry, others, including poet Abdel Rahman Shokry, the Northern Diaspora School, and the Apollo Group, all diverted greatly from these traditional forms. In fact, the argument that existed between the proponents of Classical poetry who favored the single-rhyme and meter poem, and those advocated the free verse poem '\"shi'r hurr\"' remains till this day. A few years later, the prose poem appeared in the 1970s. Writers of this hybrid form were Ameen al-Rihani, Onsy Al-Hajj, and Shawqi Abi Shaqra (Lebanon), Jabra Ibrahim Jabra, Tawfiq Al-Sayegh, Ezz Eddin al-Munasira (Palestine), Muhammad al-Maghut (Syria), Sargon Boulus, Fadil Al-Azzawi, Mu'ayyid al-Rawi (Iraq). Al-Rawi is notably recognized for liberating poetry from rhythm and metre, and replacing that with inner music, while maintaining the original imageries, creating in this way a new genre in Arabic poetry.\n"}
{"id": "36571665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36571665", "title": "Moyale clashes", "text": "Moyale clashes\n\nThe Moyale clashes were a series of ethnic clashes between Borana and Garre communities in July 2012 in the area of Moyale, Ethiopia, on the border with Kenya. The fighting appeared to be caused by a long-standing dispute over land possession, exacerbated by recent drought conditions.\n\nClashes began around 25 July and continued for the next three days. Armed militias reportedly took positions in villages, at which point the fighting spread into Moyale itself. Businesses were shut in Moyale on both sides of the border, and homes in the villages of Chamuki and Shawabarre were reported to have been burnt. On 28 July, the United Nations reported that at least twenty people had been killed in the fighting.\n\nOn 28 July, the Kenya Red Cross Society (KRCS) announced that more than 20,000 people had fled into Kenya to escape the fighting. Because of lack of shelter on the Kenyan side of the border, many were sleeping in the open or under tarpaulins provided by the organization.\n\nOn 30 July, the Ethiopian government stated that the police had made arrests and the situation was \"under control\". However, as of that date, the displaced people remained on the Kenyan side of the border, causing the KRCS to issue an urgent plea for humanitarian assistance.\n"}
{"id": "25815338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25815338", "title": "Norzai", "text": "Norzai\n\nNorzai is the major community in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Norzai are in Afghanistan and Pakistan. Norzai nation are Pashton in Afghanistan there are many nation are Pashton like Saqzai and Asaqzai. Norzai has been in Pakistan for about 150 years.\n"}
{"id": "55542091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55542091", "title": "Oliver Glasgow", "text": "Oliver Glasgow\n\nOliver Edwin James Glasgow QC (born 6 January 1972) is a barrister who specialises in criminal law. Since November 2015 he served as one of the Senior Treasury Counsel at the Old Bailey, prosecuting serious criminal cases.\n\nThe eldest son of Edwin Glasgow CBE QC (born 1945), Glasgow was educated at The University of Oxford, graduating with honours, MA (Oxon). He was called to the Bar from the Middle Temple in 1995 and practised as a barrister at the Central Criminal Court and on the South Eastern Circuit..\n\nGlasgow practised at 2 Hare Court, chambers of Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting major crime and prosecuting and defending in occupational safety and health cases. In 2016 Glasgow was appointed Queen's Counsel.\n\n\n\nWatson flew to Turkey in 2016 and tried to cross the border into war-torn Syria in February 2017. However, he was intercepted by the Turkish authorities and deported to the UK after vowing to carry out terrorist atrocities during encrypted chats with undercover MI5 agents.\n\n\n\nGlasgow is a trustee of The Kalisher Trust, a legal charity which aims to transform the lives of bright young people through the development their of advocacy skills and supports those who aspire to become criminal barristers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7975787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7975787", "title": "Paul William Hampel", "text": "Paul William Hampel\n\nPaul William Hampel is the fictitious name of a man accused by the Canadian government of being a Russian spy masquerading as a Canadian citizen. He was arrested on November 14, 2006 at Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport at about 6 p.m. just prior to boarding a plane departing Canada. When he was arrested, he had in his possession a fraudulent Ontario birth certificate, C$7,800 in five currencies, a shortwave radio, index cards with detailed notes about Canadian history, two digital cameras, three cell phones and five cell phone sim cards, some of them password-protected.\n\nHe was detained under a security certificate, signed by Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day and Immigration Minister Monte Solberg. According to the \"National Post\", the certificate asserts that the individual \"was a foreign national engaged in espionage, a member of an espionage organisation and 'a danger to the security of Canada.'\" Specifically, he is suspected of being an elite agent in the SVR, Russia's Foreign Intelligence Service. A Federal Court judge has found the certificate reasonable and ordered \"Hampel\" to be expelled from Canada. In order to speed up the deportation, Federal Court Justice Pierre Blais made a deal with the accused to seal the man's real name because of concerns for the safety of his family. In exchange, Hampel will not contest deportation to his homeland.\n\nHampel has admitted through his lawyer \"that he is not Paul William Hampel, that he is a Russian citizen, born on October 21, 1961, and that he has no legal status in Canada.\" He does not admit to being a spy.\n\nHampel started an \"emerging markets\" consultancy in Dublin, Ireland, but the business was stagnant in recent years. In 1997, Hampel set up in Dublin a company called Emerging Markets Research and Consulting Limited, and put one million dollars of capital into the company; however, the company never filed any returns. The company formed part of a business empire that Hampel controlled, and which operated in Sark, Belgrade, Cyprus and Canada.\n\nHampel frequently traveled to Balkans and published a book of photographs, \"My Beautiful Balkans\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3935843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3935843", "title": "Psylli", "text": "Psylli\n\nThe Psylli (Seli) were a native Libyan tribe inhabiting Ancient Libya.\n\nPliny the Elder (Hist. Nat., vii 14) places the Psylli on the Syrtic coast above the Garamantes, and gives Psyllikos Kolpos as an early name of the Syrtic Gulf.\n\nAccording to John C. Murphy, \"the Psylli were the displaced remnants of an ancient Libyan tribe that lived on the Gulf of Sidra. Conquered by the nomadic Nasamones, the Psylli became a well-known snake-charming sect.\"\n\nOf the Psylli Herodotus described \"a tribe that met with extinction\" after the desert wind dried up their water holes (IV.173). Pliny the Elder said that they were \"almost exterminated\" in a war with their neighbours, the Nasamones, but the descendants of those who escaped \"survive today in a few places\" (VII.2.14). Strabo does not mention an unsuccessful war against either the desert wind or the Nasamones but only that the Psylli were still in existence, occupying \"a barren and arid region\" (XVII.3.23) below the Nasamones. Later writers, especially poets, bestowed on the Psylli a reputation as great snake charmers.\n\nIn his \"Roman History\", Cassius Dio makes reference to the Psylli as being sought out by Octavian to draw out the snake venom with which Cleopatra had poisoned herself (LI.14). According to Dio, the Psylli were completely immune to snake bites and were all male(LI.14). Lucan, speaking of the Psylli, whose peculiar property it was to be unhurt by the bite of serpents with which their country abounded, wrote:\n\n\"Of all who scorching Afric's sun endure,\nNone like the swarthy Psyllians are secure:\nWith healing gifts and privileges graced,\nWell in the land of serpents were they placed:\nTruce with the dreadful tyrant death they have,\nAnd border safely on his realm the grave\" (\"Pharsalia\" ix. 891, trans. by Rowe)\n\nIt is claimed that the Psylli employed tests by animals in order to find out if their offspring was genuine and at the same time if their wives were faithful. Infant Psylli were subjected to snake-bites. If the infant died of the snakebite, illegitimacy was supposed to be implied.\n\nNotes\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "46424073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46424073", "title": "Public Health Act 1904", "text": "Public Health Act 1904\n\nThe Public Health Act 1904 was an Act of Parliament of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It is one of the Public Health Acts.\n\nIn the November 1902 issue of \"National Review\" Conservative Party, Lord Salisbury wrote an article titled \"Labourers' and Artisans' Dwellings\" in which he argued that the poor conditions of working class were injurious to morality and health. \"\"Laissez-faire\" is an admirable doctrine but it must be applied on both sides\", Salisbury argued, as Parliament had enacted new building projects (such as the Thames Embankment) which had displaced working-class people and was responsible for \"packing the people tighter\":\n\n...thousands of families have only a single room to dwell in, where they sleep and eat, multiply, and die... It is difficult to exaggerate the misery which such conditions of life must cause, or the impulse they must give to vice. The depression of body and mind which they create is an almost insuperable obstacle to the action of any elevating or refining agencies.\n\nIn response to this article the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" argued that Salisbury had sailed into \"the turbid waters of State Socialism\"; the \"Manchester Guardian\" said his article was \"State socialism pure and simple\" and \"The Times\" claimed Salisbury was \"in favour of state socialism\".\n\nOn 4 March 1903 a Royal Commission on the Housing of the Working Classes was set up under the leadership of Sir Charles Dilke, including Salisbury, the Prince of Wales, Cardinal Manning, Henry Broadhurst, George Goschen, Jesse Collings, Bishop of Bedford, and Richard Cross as members. It held 51 meetings, met twice a week in spring and summer of 1903, heard from witnesses, asked 18,000 questions, toured the slums and interviewed doctors, policemen, Poor Law Board officials, clergymen, government officials and vestry sanitary committee chairmen. Its Report was published in December 1903 and contained a mixture of Salisbury's proposals for government loans and subsidies and the more collectivist Dilke-Chamberlain ideas of increasing the local councils' powers. Salisbury dissented from the majority Report because he considered it too reminiscent of Chamberlainite \"expropriation\" and produced his own minority Report.\n\nRichard Cross, the Home Secretary, introduced the Bill into the House of Commons on 23 July 1903 and Salisbury did the same in the House of Lords. The Act allowed county districts to get loans from HM Treasury on the security of the rates. The Local Government Board was granted the power to force local authorities to shut down unhealthy houses, making landlords personally liable for their tenants' health, and the Act also made it illegal for landlords to let property which was below elementary sanitary standards.\n\nThe purpose of the act was to eliminate housing constructions in London that posed public health threats, including the spread of cholera and typhus. Since sewage was flowing and overwhelming the streets (including permeating houses), the act sought to fix the problem.\nThe act required all new residential construction to include \"running water and an internal drainage system.\" \nThis act also prohibited the government to build poor-quality housing by building contractors. The act also stated that every public health authority had to have a doctor and a sanitary inspector, to ensure the other sanitation, food, and health laws were carried out.\n\nMany factors delayed reform, however, such as the fact that to perform a cleanup, the government would need money, and this would have to come from factory owners, who were not keen to pay, and this further delayed reform. But reformers eventually helped to counteract the government's laissez-faire attitude, and a public health Act was introduced in 1904. Home Secretary Richard Cross was responsible for drafting the legislation, and received much good will from trades union groups in the consequent years for \"humanising the toil of the working man\".\n\nThe Act also meant that towns had to have pavements and street lighting.\n\n"}
{"id": "42439812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42439812", "title": "Pál Lipták", "text": "Pál Lipták\n\nPál Lipták (14 February 1914 in Békéscsaba – 6 July 2000 in Budapest) was a Hungarian anthropologist and member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (), specialized in historical anthropology and Hungarian ethnogenesis. Based on examinations of skeletons, he improved the method of anthropotaxonomical differential diagnosis for Europids and Mongolids.\n\nBetween 1932–1937 he studied and graduated at Pázmány Péter University in Budapest, gaining a teacher's degree. One year later he received a Doctorate in arts, the dissertation was called \"The geography of Békéscsaba\". Between 1938 and 1939 he taught at a teacher training college at Miskolc. After that, he joined the army for a two-year compulsory military service. After his military service he taught at the public Teachers’ College in Budapest till 1943. One year later he was elected teacher in „Fasori” Secondary School in Budapest.\n\nIn 1944 he joined the army and was captured by Soviet troops for four years. Thereupon he taught at the successor of „Fasori” Secondary School in Budapest for one year (1948–1949). From summer 1949 till 1960, he worked as a scientific official at the Department of Anthropology Hungarian Natural History Museum in Budapest. During this period of time, in 1956, he became Candidate of Biological Sciences by defending his thesis \"The major questions of anthropology in the territory between the Danube and the Tisza rivers between the 8th and 13th centuries AD\". Consequently, he was member of the editorial board of \"Anthropologiai közlemények\" between 1957 and 1992. Between 1958 and 1962, he was a member of the Anthropological Theme Committee of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In 1960, he was also appointed to head of the Department of Anthropology at József Attila University in Szeged and worked there till 1980. He was a member of the Anthropological Committee of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences from 1962 to 1985. In 1969 he defended his doctoral thesis: „The anthropology of Hungarian ethnogenesis”. Afterwards he was also editor-in-chief of Acta Biologica Szegediensis from 1975 to 1980.\n\nIn 1980 he finally retired. Nine years later, in 1989, he was awarded the \"Lajos Bartucz Commemorative Medal\". In 1994 he was awarded the title of „professor emeritus” by József Attila University, in Szeged. Pál Lipták died on 6 July 2000, in Budapest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24243772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24243772", "title": "Qassab", "text": "Qassab\n\nThe Qassab (; plural of \"Qasai\" from the Arabic word \"Khasab\" (خصب), are members of a north Indian community or \"biradari\". The caste of commoners, labours and peasants.\n\nOccasionally most Qassab caste members are referred to as the Kasbi caste and have many different surnames such as \"Qurayshi\", \"Bhatti\", \"Mughal\", \"Rajput\", \"Rajas\", \"Khokar\", etc.\n\nThe community is entirely Sunni, and in North India speaks Urdu.\n\nFor their participation in first war of independence, fine Rs. 63,000 was imposed on the people of Rohtak who were mostly Ranghars, Shaikhs and Muslim Kasai.\n\nThe community remains associated with the slaughtering of animals. Apart from selling meats, they are also involved in the sale and purchase of animals, as well as trading in hides. The Chikwa of Awadh are also involved in the selling of hides. In terms of distribution, they are found throughout Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. They are strictly endogamous, which marriages preferred within a small kinship circle. Most towns include distinct quarters where the community lives, such as Qureshnagar in Delhi.\n\nThe Anjuman Quresh is an India-wide association, and is the oldest Muslim communal organization. The community belong to both the Sunni and Shia sects of Islam, but the majority are Sunnis. The Chikwa speak Awadhi, while the Qureshi Qassab speak Urdu.\n\nIn Rajasthan, the Qassab are found in the districts of Ajmer, Jaipur, Nagaur, Jodhpur and Pali. The Qassab speak Mewari among themselves, and Hindi with outsiders. They have two sub-divisions, the Barakasab, who slaughter cows and buffaloes, and Chhotakasab, who slaughter goats. The Qassab have local caste associations, known as jamats, in each of their settlements, which deal with disputes within the community.\n\nIn Bihar, the Qassab are a class of Muslim butchers, and are generally known as Qureshis. They are found throughout Bihar, and are one of the few Bihari Muslim communities that speaks Urdu. The Qassab consist of two sub-groups, the Bara Karbar, who were involved in the slaughtering of cows, and Chota Karbar, who slaughtered goats. Closely related to the Qassab are the Chik, a caste also associated with the slaughtering of goats. The Anjuman Quresh has a Bihar branch, which acts as a welfare association. They are entirely Sunni Muslims, and are fairly orthodox. They were one of the earliest groups to shift towards the Deobandi sect.\n\nThe Qassab of Maharashtra are said to have come over from Hyderabad to Amravati, and were soldiers in the army of the Nizam of Hyderabad, and still speak the Dakhani dialect of Urdu. They were initially divided into two groups, the Gai Kasai (cow butchers) and Baker Kasai (mutton butchers). The community is further divided into three groups, the Chaudhary, the Saudagor and Sikku. They speak the Dakhani dialect of Urdu among themselves, and Marathi with outsiders. The Qassab are Sunni, and strictly endogamous. They practice both cross cousin and parallel cousin marriages. In Maharashtra, the community are found in the cities of Amravati, Akola, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Pune, Bhiwandi and Mumbai.\n\nIn Pakistan, the Qassab are found in the province of Punjab. They have Eight major divisions, the Jutt, Qureshi, Arbi, Bhatti, Khokhar, Goraha and Suhal. The Punjabi Qassab claim descent from a number of Rajput tribes, such as the Bhatti or Khokhar, in which an ancestor is said to have taken up the occupation of butchering. In addition to butchering, the Qassab of Punjab have been involved with cotton cleaning. The Penja community is of Qaasab extraction.\n\nPakistan is also home to communities of Qureshi Qasab, which originate from Delhi and Haryana. They are an Urdu-speaking community found mainly in the cities of Karachi, Lahore, Multan and Faisalabad,Dera Ghazi Khan, Muzaffar Garh,Vehari Like their Indian counterparts, the Qureshi Qassab also have a caste association or anjuman. They are also called Sheikh Qureshi.\n\nThe Qassab of the Kashmir valley are known as the Ganai. But not all Ganai are butchers or Qassab. Many sociologists and anthropologists believe that the Kashmiri Ganai were originally Brahmins, and butchers of Kashmir steadily assumed the caste name \"Ganai\" only recently, with the advent of Islam in the 14th century. They assumed this high-sounding surname to escape the social stigma associated with the butchery profession in traditional Hindu society. Presently many butchers use the surname Ganai but only some of them are in the butchery profession. Like other Qassab groups, many are also involved in the buying and selling of hides, which has made the Ganai a wealthy community. The traditional caste council has been replaced by the Ganai association.\n\nUnlike the rest of the Indian subcontinent the Qureshis / Qurashis / Qureashis of Kashmir are high-caste Muslims whose lineage is directed towards the Sufi Saints who came from Central Asia and Arab world during the arrival of Islam in the 14th century in the Kashmir valley. The high-caste Muslims known as Qureshi of Kashmir include Masoodi, Qureshi, and Bukhari.\n\nLike many Muslim communities in India, the Qassab have set up the All India Jamiatil Quresh, which was established in Meerut in 1927. The Jamiat was set up by Bhaiyya Rasheeduddin Ahmed , MLC , Landlord , a wealthy merchant and philanthropist. He has established under 3700 schools . It has a federal structure, with each state having its own chapter. Its headquarters are in Kothi Khan Bahadur ,Meerut Uttar Pradesh. Any male member of the community can take up membership. As a caste association, the Jamait campaigns on behalf of the community as well as acting as a welfare organization, and running schools and hospitals.\n\nThe Bawarchi are a sub-group within the Qassab, and get their name from the Urdu word \"bawarchi\", which means \"a cook\". A split from the wider Qassab community is said to have taken place when a group of Lucknow Qassab changed their occupation from butchering to cooking. There is no intermarriage now between the Bawarchi and neighbouring Qassab communities. They are still found mainly in the city of Lucknow, in the localities of Sadar, Husainganj, Fatehganj and Chowk. The Bawarchi prefer to be known as Qureshi or Ahl-e-Quresh.\n\nThe Bawarchi speak Urdu and belong to the Sunni sect. They are a community of professional cooks, who historically were employed by wealthy Awadh taluqdars. With the disappearance of their traditional patrons at the time of the independence of India, the community are now employed in restaurants and hotels, and specialise in Awadhi cuisine.\n\nThe Bawarchi and rakabdars of Awadh gave birth to the dum style of cooking or the art of cooking over a slow fire, which has become synonymous with Lucknow today. Their spread would consist of elaborate dishes like kebabs, kormas, biryani, kaliya, nahari-kulchas, zarda, sheermal, roomali rotis and warqi parathas. The richness of Awadh cuisine lies not only in the variety of cuisine but also in the ingredients used like mutton, paneer, and rich spices including cardamom and saffron.\n\nLike other Muslim artisans, many have seen a decline in their traditional occupation, and are now petty businessmen. The Bawarchi have no formal caste association, but each of their settlements contains a panchayat, an informal caste association. Each settlement panchayat is headed by a chaudhary, a post which was traditionally heredity. The panchayat deals with intra community disputes and punishes any social transgressions. Some Bawarchi are also involved with the Anjuman Quraish.\n\nIn Gujarat, the Bawarchi are said to have been soldiers in the army of the Mughal Emperor Babar, and settled in Gujarat some five centuries ago. Once in Gujarat, these soldiers changed their occupation and took up cooking, hence becoming known as Bawarchi. The Bawarchi are now found in the cities of Ahmadabad, Surat, and Baroda, and a few villages in Kheda District. They speak a dialect which is a mixture of Gujarati and Urdu.\n\nLike most Gujarati Muslims, the Bawarchi have a caste association, the Ahmedabad Bawarchi Jamat. The jamat acts as both a community welfare association as well as an instrument of social control. Like other Qassab sub-groups, the Gujarat Bawarchi are strictly endogamous. Most prefer marrying close kin, and practice both parallel cousin and cross cousin marriages. The Bawarchi are entirely Sunni, but also incorporate some folk beliefs.\n\nLike most Muslim artisan castes, the Bawarchi have seen a decline in their traditional occupation, which involved being employed as cooks in wealthier Muslim families. Other were owners of caravanserais. Very few Bawarchis have taken up higher education, as the community is extremely economically marginalized. Many are now employed as daily wage labourers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4397208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4397208", "title": "Raju", "text": "Raju\n\nThe Raju are a Telugu caste found mostly in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe Raju caste, which A. Satyanarayana calls the \"locally dominant landed gentry\", claims Kshatriya status in the varna system despite there being \"no real Kshatriya varna\" in the Andhra region. They also claim descent from the ancient royal dynasties of India such as the Eastern Chalukyas, Chalukya-Cholas, Vishnukundina, Gajapati, Chagi, Paricheda and Kota Vamsa.\n\n\"Raju\" is a Telugu language variant of the Sanskrit title \"Raja\", a term for a monarch or princely ruler. Cynthia Talbot describes the term as being:\nIn medieval Andhra Pradesh, the title was used in both senses, and was very likely adopted by some secular Brahmins, who occupied important advisory functions. The royal usage at that time was particularly prevalent in the northern coastal areas of the region. Talbot also notes that the title, and others in use at that time, do not align with the Vedic four-fold varna system and in that sense could not refer to a caste. However, they do appear to have conformed to\nTemple inscriptions from the period of the Kakatiya dynasty, a South Indian dynasty that flourished between 1175-1324 CE in the Telugu-speaking lands now in Andhra Pradesh, refer both to royal and clerical \"rajus\" as donors, together with peasant leaders called \"reddies\".\n\nA report published by the Overseas Development Institute in 2002, describing the Rajus of Andhra as an ex-warrior caste, noted that along with the Kapu and Velama they were \n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "3429561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3429561", "title": "Rolf Liebermann", "text": "Rolf Liebermann\n\nRolf Liebermann (14 September 1910 – 2 January 1999), was a Swiss composer and music administrator. He served as the Artistic Director of the Hamburg State Opera from 1959–1973 and again from 1985–1988. He was also Artistic Director of the Paris Opera from 1973–1980.\n\nLiebermann was born in Zürich, and studied composition and conducting with Hermann Scherchen in Budapest and Vienna in the 1930s, and later with Wladimir Vogel in Basel. His compositional output involved several different musical genres, including chansons, classical, and light music. His classical music often combines myriad styles and techniques, including those drawn from baroque, classical, and twelve-tone music.\n\nLiebermann was the director of the Hamburg Staatsoper from 1959 to 1973, and again from 1985 to 1988. During his tenure in Hamburg, he commissioned 24 new operas, including \"The Devils\" by Krzysztof Penderecki, \"Der Prinz von Homburg\" by Hans Werner Henze, and \"Help, Help, the Globolinks!\" by Gian Carlo Menotti. In the intervening years he served as director of the Paris Opera from 1973 to 1980. He died in Paris.\n\nAt the inaugural Eurovision Song Contest in 1956, Liebermann acted as the president of the jury; being responsible for moderating and finalising the results of the seven international juries judging the competition.\n\nIn 1989, he was the head of the jury at the 39th Berlin International Film Festival.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "366377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=366377", "title": "Sinhalese language", "text": "Sinhalese language\n\nSinhalese (), known natively as Sinhala (; \"siṁhala\" ), is the native language of the Sinhalese people, who make up the largest ethnic group in Sri Lanka, numbering about 16 million. Sinhalese is also spoken as a second language by other ethnic groups in Sri Lanka, totalling about four million. It belongs to the Indo-Aryan branch of the Indo-European languages. Sinhalese is written using the Sinhalese script, which is one of the Brahmic scripts, a descendant of the ancient Indian Brahmi script closely related to the Kadamba alphabet.\n\nSinhalese is one of the official and national languages of Sri Lanka. Sinhalese, along with Pali, played a major role in the development of Theravada Buddhist literature.\n\nThe oldest Sinhalese Prakrit inscriptions found are from the third to second century BCE following the arrival of Buddhism in Sri Lanka, the oldest extant literary works date from the ninth century. The closest relative of Sinhalese is the Maldivian language.\nSinhalese is of two main varieties – written and spoken. Spoken Sinhalese is easier to learn because it has lost the rigidity and formality of grammar. \n\n\"Sinhala\" () is a Sanskrit term; the corresponding Middle Indo-Aryan (Eḷu) word is \"Sīhala\".\nThe name is a derivation from \"\", the Sanskrit word for \"lion\" \n\"\" is attested as a Sanskrit name of the island of in the \"Bhagavata Purana\". The name is sometimes glossed as \"abode of lions\", and attributed to a supposed former abundance of lions on the island.\n\nAccording to the chronicle \"Mahavamsa\", written in Pali, Prince Vijaya and his entourage merged with two exotic tribes of ancient India present in Lanka, the Yakkha and Naga peoples. In the following centuries, there was substantial immigration from Eastern India (Kalinga, Magadha) which led to an admixture of features of Eastern Prakrits.\n\nThe development of the Sinhalese language is divided into four periods:\n\nThe most important phonetic developments of the Sinhalese language include\n\nAn example for a Western feature in Sinhalese is the retention of initial which developed into in the Eastern languages (e.g. Sanskrit \"viṃśati\" \"twenty\", Sinhalese \"visi-\", Hindi \"bīs\"). An example of an Eastern feature is the ending -e for masculine nominative singular (instead of Western -o) in Sinhalese Prakrit. There are several cases of vocabulary doublets, e.g. the words \"mässā\" (\"fly\") and \"mäkkā\" (\"flea\"), which both correspond to Sanskrit \"makṣikā\" but stem from two regionally different Prakrit words \"macchiā\" and \"makkhikā\" (as in Pali).\n\nDuring the career of Christopher Reynolds as a Sinhalese lecturer at the SOAS, University of London, he extensively researched the Sinhalese language and its pre-1815 literature: the Sri Lankan government awarded him the Sri Lanka Ranjana medal for this. He wrote the 377-page \"An anthology of Sinhalese literature up to 1815\", selected by the UNESCO National Commission of Ceylon\n\nAccording to Geiger, Sinhalese has features that set it apart from other Indo-Aryan languages. Some of the differences can be explained by the substrate influence of the parent stock of the Vedda language. Sinhalese has many words that are only found in Sinhalese, or shared between Sinhalese and Vedda and not etymologically derivable from Middle or Old Indo-Aryan. Common examples are \"kola\" for leaf in Sinhalese and Vedda, \"dola\" for pig in Vedda and offering in Sinhalese. Other common words are \"rera\" for wild duck, and \"gala\" for stones (in toponyms used throughout the island). There are also high frequency words denoting body parts in Sinhalese, such as \"olluva\" for head, \"kakula\" for leg, \"bella\" for neck and \"kalava\" for thighs, that are derived from pre-Sinhalese languages of Sri Lanka. The author of the oldest Sinhalese grammar, \"Sidatsangarava\", written in the 13th century CE, recognised a category of words that exclusively belonged to early Sinhalese. The grammar lists \"naramba\" (to see) and \"kolamba\" (fort or harbour) as belonging to an indigenous source. \"Kolamba\" is the source of the name of the commercial capital Colombo.\n\nIn addition to many Tamil loanwords, several phonetic and grammatical features present in neighbouring Dravidian languages, setting today's spoken Sinhalese apart from its Northern Indo-Aryan siblings, bear witness to the close interactions with Dravidian speakers. However, formal Sinhalese is more similar to Pali and medieval Sinhalese. Some of the features that may be traced to Dravidian influence are –\n\"I know that it is new.\"\n\"I do not know whether it is new.\"\n\nAs a result of centuries of colonial rule, modern Sinhalese contains some Portuguese, Dutch and English loanwords.\n\nMacanese Patois or Macau Creole (known as \"Patuá\" to its speakers) is a creole language derived mainly from Malay, Sinhalese, Cantonese, and Portuguese, which was originally spoken by the Macanese people of the Portuguese colony of Macau. It is now spoken by a few families in Macau and in the Macanese diaspora.\n\nThe language developed first mainly among the descendants of Portuguese settlers who often married women from Malacca and Sri Lanka rather than from neighbouring China, so the language had strong Malay and Sinhalese influence from the beginning.\n\nSinhalese shares many features common to other Indo-European languages. Shared vocabulary includes the numbers up to ten.\n\nSinhalese spoken in the Southern Province (Galle, Matara and Hambantota Districts) uses several words that are not found elsewhere in the country; this is also the case for the Central and North-Central Provinces and south-eastern region (Uva Province and the surrounding area). For native speakers all dialects are mutually intelligible, and they might not even realise that the differences are significant.\n\nThe language of the Vedda people resembles Sinhalese to a great extent, although it has a large number of words which cannot be traced to another language. The Rodiya use another dialect of Sinhalese. Rodiya used to be a caste in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka no longer recognizes castes.\n\nIn Sinhalese there is distinctive diglossia, as in many languages of South Asia. The literary language and the spoken language differ from each other in many aspects. The written language is used for all forms of literary texts but also orally at formal occasions (public speeches, TV and radio news broadcasts, etc.), whereas the spoken language is used as the language of communication in everyday life (see also Sinhala slang and colloquialism). As a rule the literary language uses more Sanskrit-based words.\n\nThe most important difference between the two varieties is the lack of inflected verb forms in the spoken language.\n\nThe situation is analogous to one where Middle or even Old English would be the written language in Great Britain. The children are taught the written language at school almost like a foreign language.\n\nSinhalese also has diverse slang. Most slang words and terms were regarded as taboo and most were frowned upon as non-scholarly. However, nowadays Sinhalese slang words and terms, even the ones with sexual references, are commonly used among younger Sri Lankans.\n\nThe Sinhalese script, \"Sinhala hodiya\", is based on the ancient Brahmi script, as are most Indian scripts. The Sinhalese alphabet is closely related to South Indian Grantha alphabet and Khmer alphabet taken the elements from the related Kadamba alphabet.\n\nThe Sinhalese writing system is an abugida, where the consonants are written with letters while the vowels are indicated with diacritics (\"pilla\") on those consonants, unlike English where both consonants and vowels are full letters, or Urdu where vowels need not be written at all. Also, when a diacritic is not used, an \"inherent vowel\", either or , is understood, depending on the position of the consonant within the word. For example, the letter ක \"k\" on its own indicates \"ka\", either or . The various vowels are written කා \"kā\", කැ \"kä\", කෑ \"kǟ\" (after the consonant), කි \"ki\", කී \"kī\" (above the consonant), කු \"ku\", කූ \"kū\" (below the consonant), කෙ \"ke\", කේ \"kē\" (before the consonant), කො \"ko\", කෝ \"kō\" (surrounding the consonant). There are also a few diacritics for consonants, such as \"r\". For simple without a vowel, a vowel-cancelling diacritic (virama) called \"hal kirīma\" is used: ක් \"k\". Several of these diacritics occur in two forms, which depend on the shape of the consonant letter. Vowels also have independent letters but these are only used at the beginning of words where there is no preceding consonant to add a diacritic to.\n\nThe complete alphabet consist of 60 letters, 18 for vowels and 42 for consonants. However, only 57 (16 vowels and 41 consonants) are required for writing colloquial spoken Sinhalese (\"suddha Sinhala\"). The rest indicate sounds that have gotten lost in the course of linguistic change, such as the aspirates, are restricted to Sanskrit and Pali loan words.\n\nSinhalese is written from left to right and the Sinhalese character set (the Sinhalese script) is only used for this one language. The alphabetic sequence is similar to those of other Brahmic scripts:\n\nSinhalese has so-called prenasalized consonants, or 'half nasal' consonants. A short homorganic nasal occurs before a voiced stop, it is shorter than a sequence of nasal plus stop. The nasal is syllabified with the onset of the following syllable, which means that the moraic weight of the preceding syllable is left unchanged. For example, \"tam̆ba\" 'copper' contrasts with \"tamba\" 'boil'.\n\nf and ʃ are restricted to loans, typically English or Sanskrit. They are commonly replaced by p and s is colloquial speech. \n\nLong /əː/ is restricted to English loans.\n\nThe main features marked on Sinhalese nouns are case, number, definiteness and animacy.\n\nSinhalese distinguishes several cases. Next to the cross-linguistically rather common nominative, accusative, genitive, dative and ablative, there are also less common cases like the instrumental. The exact number of these cases depends on the exact definition of cases one wishes to employ. For instance, the endings for the animate instrumental and locative cases, \"atiŋ\" and \"laᵑgə\", are also independent words meaning \"with the hand\" and \"near\" respectively, which is why they are not regarded to be actual \"case endings\" by some scholars. Depending on how far an independent word has progressed on a grammaticalisation path, scholars will see it as a case marker or not.\n\nThe brackets with most of the vowel length symbols indicate the optional shortening of long vowels in certain unstressed syllables.\n\nIn Sinhalese animate nouns, the plural is marked with \"-o(ː)\", a long consonant plus \"-u\", or with \"-la(ː)\". Most inanimates mark the plural through disfix. Loanwords from English mark the singular with \"ekə\", and do not mark the plural. This can be interpreted as a singulative number.\n\nOn the left hand side of the table, plurals are longer than singulars. On the right hand side, it is the other way round, with the exception of paːrə \"street\". Note that [+animate] lexemes are mostly in the classes on the left-hand side, while [-animate] lexemes are most often in the classes on the right hand.\n\nThe indefinite article is \"-ek\" for animates and \"-ak\" for inanimates. The indefinite article exists only in the singular, where its absence marks definiteness. In the plural, (in)definiteness does not receive special marking.\n\nSinhalese distinguishes three conjugation classes.\nSpoken Sinhalese does not mark person, number or gender on the verb (literary Sinhalese does). In other words, there is no subject–verb agreement.\n\n\nThere is a four-way deictic system (which is rare): There are four demonstrative stems (see demonstrative pronouns) \"here, close to the speaker\", \"there, close to the person addressed\", \"there, close to a third person, visible\" and \"there, close to a third person, not visible\".\n\nSinhalese is a pro-drop language: Arguments of a sentence can be omitted when they can be inferred from context. This is true for subject—as in Italian, for instance—but also objects and other parts of the sentence can be \"dropped\" in Sinhalese if they can be inferred. In that sense, Sinhalese can be called a \"super pro-drop language\", like Japanese.\n\nExample: The sentence , literally \"where went\", can mean \"where did I/you/he/she/we... go\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24944240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24944240", "title": "Situational strength", "text": "Situational strength\n\nSituational strength is defined as cues provided by environmental forces regarding the desirability of potential behaviors. Situational strength is said to result in psychological pressure on the individual to engage in and/or refrain from particular behaviors. A consequence of this psychological pressure to act in a certain way is the likelihood that despite an individual's personality, they will act in a certain manner. As such, when strong situations (situations where situational strength is high) exist, the relationship between personality variables (for example, extraversion, risk-taking behaviors, etc...) and behaviors is reduced, because no matter what the personality of the individual is, they will act in a way dictated by the situation. When weak situations exist, there is less structure and more ambiguity with respect to what behaviors to perform. In sum, situations have the ability to restrict the expression of individual differences in terms of actual behaviors.\n\nAn example of a strong situation is a red traffic light. Traffic rules dictate how people are supposed to act when they see a red light, and this influence often prevents people from engaging in behaviors that are consistent with their personality. For example, most people, no matter whether they are daring or cautious, will stop in front of a red traffic light. Therefore, one could not reasonably predict how a person would behave with personality in this situation.\n\nIn contrast, an example of a weak situation is a yellow traffic light because the most appropriate course of action is not especially well defined and norms are inconsistent. Thus, individuals who are more daring are likely to speed through the intersection on a yellow light, whereas cautious individuals are likely to stop.\n\nAlthough it is difficult to formally express when situations restricting individual differences in personality began in psychology, work conducted by Carl Rogers suggested that certain individual differences are mostly likely to manifest themselves in situations where there is psychological freedom and safety, compared to situations where psychological freedom and safety do not exist. Additionally, Stanley Milgram argued that psychological forces of conflict may not be brought into play under diluted conditions. However, recent conceptualization and study of situational strength can be traced back to the work of Walter Mischel. In 1968, Mischel published his classic book, \"Personality and Assessment\", where he argued that personality cannot be studied in a vacuum; instead, the complexity of human behavior and its determinants must be studied from a perspective that accounts for the simultaneous and interactive impact of individual differences and situational characteristics. It is important to note that Mischel did not imply that people show no consistencies in behavior, or that individual differences are unimportant. The major theme was rather that the trait approach to personality was not as sensitive to the influence of situations as it should have been.\n\nIn books and articles on the topic, Mischel stressed the importance of better understanding how, when, and why individual differences are most likely to be important predictors of behavior, and when they are more likely to be nullified by situational influences. Specifically, Mischel began laying the foundation for subsequent thought in this area by arguing that psychological \"situations\" and \"treatments\" are powerful to the degree that they lead all persons to construe the particular events the same way, induce uniform expectancies regarding the most appropriate response pattern, provide adequate incentives for the performance of that response pattern, and instill the skills necessary for its satisfactory construction and execution (p. 276). He further argued that individual differences are most likely to directly affect behavior \"when the situation is ambiguously structured... so that subjects are uncertain about how to categorize it and have no clear expectations about the behaviors most likely to be appropriate (normative, reinforced) in that situation\" (p. 276). Thus, he helped to lay the foundation for the general idea underlying what is now typically referred to as \"situational strength\" (or \"situation strength\").\n\nMischel's work led to an important shift in social scientists' thinking about the behavioral expression of personality. But, as some have recently argued, situational strength is too often viewed as being true without treating situational strength as a theoretical construct in need of conceptual development and empirical verification.\n\nMeyer, Dalal, and Hermida argue that for theoretical understanding and practical application of situational strength to be advanced, at least three important issues must be addressed:\n\nFour facets of situational strength have been identified:\n\nIn an empirical study, which incorporated vote-counting meta-analysis, it has been found that conceptualizations of situational strength that currently exist in psychological literature form an interaction with non-ability individual differences. Additionally, the effect size of the interaction effect was reasonably large.\n\nPerhaps the most important implication of situational strength is that it is commonly believed to explain cross-situational variability in the criterion-related validity of non-cognitive individual differences. This suggests that psychology should not focus on whether personality constructs predict job performance but rather about the conditions under which they predict job performance. This also shows great practical implications for personnel selection because the criterion-related validity of individual differences may vary across different occupations. For instance, Meyer, Dalal, and Bonaccio found that occupation-level situational strength moderates the conscientiousness–performance relationship, such that conscientiousness better predicts performance in characteristically weak occupations than in characteristically strong occupations.\n\nAnother important implication revolves around the idea of person-environment fit. One of the core ideas expressed in the fit literature is that a mismatch between individuals' needs and environmental supplies can have deleterious effects on performance, attitudes, and health. Within the context of situational strength, some employees may view highly constraining environments as stifling and frustrating, whereas others may find the regimented and predictable nature of constraining environments to be comforting and relaxing. If these differences do in fact exist, this would suggest that employees' psychological reactions are partially a function of their individual differences profile and partially a function of the nature of the situation they are experiencing.\n\nTwo critical aspects of situational strength can be fruitful for future study:\n\n"}
{"id": "53679418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53679418", "title": "Skin lightening in Ghana", "text": "Skin lightening in Ghana\n\nThe practice of skin lightening and bleaching is a lucrative industry in Ghana, where higher value is placed upon being light skinned. This practice has been present since the sixteenth century and was influenced by contemporary practices, and it is a very longstanding and controversial topic. Skin bleaching is a practice where women and men use various chemical and cosmetics products to attempt to lighten or whiten the color of the skin. These products often contain one or both of two chemicals: hydroquinone and mercury and can sometimes lead to negative physical effects, such as cancer and can cause rash and flaky skin, as well as uneven light and dark patches on the skin. Because of the health risks involved with skin lightening, Ghana has implemented legislation against the use of skin lightening products. Though the products have recently been banned, Ghanaian women can still acquire them through illegal means or use homemade skin lightening chemicals. \n\nLight skinned is frequently marketed via billboards and posters that feature light skinned models, playing on the public perception that looking multiracial or having lighter skin makes one more attractive. Some Ghanians also believe that if a lighter-skinned person is in a position of power, that they bleached to get into that position and is bleaching to maintain it. Historians such as Jemima Pierre theorize that the desire for lighter colored skin stem from apartheid and the British colonization of West Africa. White skin asserted class privilege and distinct racial privilege, prompting many Ghanians to bleach their skin to achieve a similar color. Over time this also became a major determinant of beauty, especially among Ghanian women, and by the 1980s skin bleaching had spread throughout all socioeconomic classes of women. Despite being a common practice among Ghanians, lower class people are often openly ridiculed for skin bleaching. Blacks who bleach their skin (regardless of socioeconomic status) are often ridiculed for aspiring and ultimately failing to become white.\n"}
{"id": "3090069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3090069", "title": "South Dakota v. Dole", "text": "South Dakota v. Dole\n\nSouth Dakota v. Dole, 483 U.S. 203 (1987), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court considered the limitations that the Constitution places on the authority of the United States Congress when it uses its authority to influence the individual states in areas of authority normally reserved to the states. It upheld the constitutionality of a federal statute that withheld federal funds from states whose legal drinking age did not conform to federal policy.\n\nIn 1984, the United States Congress passed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act, which withheld 10% of federal highway funding from states that did not maintain a minimum legal drinking age of 21. South Dakota, which allowed 19-year-olds to purchase (raised from 18 years old as result of NMDAA) beer containing up to 3.2% alcohol, challenged the law, naming Secretary of Transportation Elizabeth Dole as the defendant.\n\nThe Supreme Court held 7–2 that the statute represented a valid use of Congressional authority under the Spending Clause and that the statute did not infringe upon the rights of the states. The Court established a five-point rule for considering the constitutionality of expenditure cuts of this type:\n\n\nWriting for the majority, Chief Justice William Rehnquist noted that the National Minimum Drinking Age Act clearly met the first three restrictions, leaving only the latter two restrictions worthy of consideration. Rehnquist wrote that the Congress did not violate the Tenth Amendment because it merely exercised its right to control its spending. Rehnquist wrote that the Congress did not coerce the states because it cut only a small percentage of federal funding. It thus applied pressure but not irresistible pressure.\n\nJustices O'Connor and Brennan both filed dissents. O'Connor agreed that Congress may attach conditions on the receipt of federal funds and that the Twenty-First Amendment gives states authority over laws relating to the consumption of alcohol. However, she wrote that the attachment of condition on the states must be \"reasonably related to the expenditure of funds.\" She disagreed with the Court's finding that withholding federal highway funds was reasonably related to deterring drunken driving and drinking by minors and young adults. She argued that the condition was both overinclusive and underinclusive: it prevented teenagers from drinking when they are not going to drive on federal and federally funded highways, and it did not attempt to remedy the overall problem of drunken driving on federal and federally funded highways. She held the relation between the condition and spending too attenuated: \"establishment of a minimum drinking age of 21 is not sufficiently related to interstate highway construction to justify so conditioning funds appropriated for that purpose.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13182097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13182097", "title": "Stephan P. Mickle", "text": "Stephan P. Mickle\n\nStephan P. Mickle (born June 18, 1944) is a Senior United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida.\n\nMickle was born in New York City, New York. In 1965, he received his Bachelor of Arts degree in political science. He was the first black student to graduate from the University of Florida. In 1966, he received his Master of Education from the University of Florida. Additionally, he received his Juris Doctor from the Fredric G. Levin College of Law at the University of Florida in 1970. He was the second black student to graduate from the University of Florida Fredric G. Levin College of Law.\n\nMickle worked briefly as an attorney in the Office of Legal Services at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in Washington, D.C. in 1970 and in private practice in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. He returned in Gainesville in 1971, when he became an adjunct professor at the University of Florida College of Law, a post he still holds today, and entered private practice as the first black lawyer in Alachua County. Mickle was also a special assistant public defender for the Eighth Judicial Circuit in 1974. Mickle was a judge on the Alachua County Court from 1979 to 1984 and was a circuit judge of the Eighth Judicial Circuit from 1984 to 1992. He served as a judge of the Florida First District Court of Appeal from 1993 to 1998.\n\nPresident Bill Clinton nominated Mickle to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida on January 27, 1998, to the seat vacated by Maurice M. Paul. Confirmed by the Senate on May 14, 1998, he received commission on May 22, 1998. He served as Chief Judge from 2009 to 2011. He assumed senior status on June 22, 2011.\n\nMickle was the first black man to receive University of Florida's Distinguished Alumnus Award in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "5074761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5074761", "title": "Sungor people", "text": "Sungor people\n\nSungor is an ethnic group in Chad and Sudan (West Darfur). They speak Assangori, a Nilo-Saharan language. Most of them are Muslims. They number at least several 10,000.\n"}
{"id": "37778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37778", "title": "Tajiks", "text": "Tajiks\n\nTajiks (: \"Tājīk\", ) are a Persian-speaking Iranian ethnic group native to Afghanistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. Tajiks are the largest ethnicity in Tajikistan, and the second largest in Afghanistan which constitutes over half of the global Tajik population. They speak varieties of Persian, a Western Iranian language. In Tajikistan, since the 1939 Soviet census, its small Pamiri and Yaghnobi ethnic groups are included as Tajiks. In China, the term is used to refer to its Pamiri ethnic groups, the Tajiks of Xinjiang, who speak the Eastern Iranian Pamiri languages. In Afghanistan, the Pamiris are counted as a separate ethnic group.\n\nAs a self-designation, the literary New Persian term \"Tajik\", which originally had some previous pejorative usage as a label for eastern Persians or Iranians, has become acceptable during the last several decades, particularly as a result of Soviet administration in Central Asia. Alternative names for the Tajiks are Eastern Persian, Fārsīwān (Persian-speaker), and Dīhgān (cf. ) which translates to \"farmer or settled villager\", in a wider sense \"settled\" in contrast to \"nomadic\" and was later used to describe a class of land-owning magnates as “Persian of noble blood” in contrast to Arabs, Turks and Romans during the Sassanid and early Islamic period.\n\nThe Tajiks are an Iranian people, speaking a variety of Persian, concentrated in the Oxus Basin, the Farḡāna valley (Tajikistan and parts of Uzbekistan) and on both banks of the upper Oxus, i.e., the Pamir Mountains (Mountain Badaḵšān, in Tajikistan) and northeastern Afghanistan and western Afghanistan (Badaḵšān, Kābol, Herat, Balkh, Mazar-i-Sharif, Ghazni and other urban regions). Historically, the ancient Tajiks were chiefly agriculturalists before the Arab Conquest of Iran. While agriculture remained a stronghold, the Islamization of Iran also resulted in the rapid urbanization of historical Khorasan and Transoxiana that lasted until the devastating Mongolian invasion. Several surviving ancient urban centers of the Tajik people include Herat, Samarkand, Bukhara, Khujand, Termez and Kabul. \n\nContemporary Tajiks are the descendants of ancient Eastern Iranian inhabitants of Central Asia, in particular, the Sogdians and the Bactrians, and possibly other groups, with an admixture of Western Iranian Persians and non-Iranian peoples. According to Richard Nelson Frye, a leading historian of Iranian and Central Asian history, the Persian migration to Central Asia may be considered the beginning of the modern Tajik nation, and ethnic Persians, along with some elements of East-Iranian Bactrians and Sogdians, as the main ancestors of modern Tajiks. In later works, Frye expands on the complexity of the historical origins of the Tajiks. In a 1996 publication, Frye explains that many \"factors must be taken into account in explaining the evolution of the peoples whose remnants are the Tajiks in Central Asia\" and that \"the peoples of Central Asia, whether Iranian or Turkic speaking, have one culture, one religion, one set of social values and traditions with only language separating them.\"\n\nRegarding Tajiks, the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" states:\n\nThe geographical division between the eastern and western Iranians is often considered historically and currently to be the desert Dasht-e Kavir, situated in the center of the Iranian plateau.\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopaedia Iranica\":\nThe most plausible and generally accepted origin of the word is Middle Persian tāzīk ‘Arab’ (cf. New Persian tāzi), or an Iranian (Sogdian or Parthian) cognate word. The Muslim armies that invaded Transoxiana early in the eighth century, conquering the Sogdian principalities and clashing with the Qarluq Turks (see Bregel, Atlas, Maps 8–10) consisted not only of Arabs, but also of Persian converts from Fārs and the central Zagros region (Bartol’d [Barthold], “Tadžiki,” pp. 455–57). Hence the Turks of Central Asia adopted a variant of the Iranian word, täžik, to designate their Muslim adversaries in general. For example, the rulers of the south Indian Chalukya dynasty and Rashtrakuta dynasty also referred to the Arabs as \"Tajika\" in the 8th and 9th century. By the eleventh century (Yusof Ḵāṣṣ-ḥājeb, Qutadḡu bilig, lines 280, 282, 3265), the Qarakhanid Turks applied this term more specifically to the Persian Muslims in the Oxus basin and Khorasan, who were variously the Turks’ rivals, models, overlords (under the Samanid Dynasty), and subjects (from Ghaznavid times on). Persian writers of the Ghaznavid, Seljuq and Atābak periods (ca. 1000–1260) adopted the term and extended its use to cover Persians in the rest of Greater Iran, now under Turkish rule, as early as the poet ʿOnṣori, ca. 1025 (Dabirsiāqi, pp. 3377, 3408). Iranians soon accepted it as an ethnonym, as is shown by a Persian court official’s referring to mā tāzikān “we Tajiks” (Bayhaqi, ed. Fayyāz, p. 594). The distinction between Turk and Tajik became stereotyped to express the symbiosis and rivalry of the (ideally) nomadic military executive and the urban civil bureaucracy (Niẓām al-Molk: tāzik, pp. 146, 178–79; Fragner, “Tādjīk. 2” in EI2 10, p. 63).\n\nAccording to the \"Encyclopaedia of Islam\", however, the oldest known usage of the word \"Tajik\" as a reference to Persians in Persian literature can be found in the writings of the Persian poet Jalal ad-Din Rumi. The 15th century Turkic-speaking poet Mīr Alī Šer Navā'ī also used \"Tajik\" as a reference to Persians.\nAn example for the usage of the word \"Tajik\" in Persian literature is, for example, the writing of Sa'adi:\n\nThe Tajiks are the principal ethnic group in most of Tajikistan, as well as in northern and western Afghanistan, though there are more Tajiks in Afghanistan than in Tajikistan. Tajiks are a substantial minority in Uzbekistan, as well as in overseas communities. Historically, the ancestors of the Tajiks lived in a larger territory in Central Asia than now.\n\nTajiks comprise around 84.3% of the population of Tajikistan. This number includes speakers of the Pamiri languages, including Wakhi and Shughni, and the Yaghnobi people who in the past were considered by the government of the Soviet Union nationalities separate from the Tajiks. In the 1926 and 1937 Soviet censuses, the Yaghnobis and Pamiri language speakers were counted as separate nationalities. After 1937, these groups were required to register as Tajiks.\n\nAccording to the World Factbook, Tajiks make up about 27% of the population in Afghanistan, but according to other sources they form 37%–39% of the population. According to the Encyclopædia Britannica they constitute about one-fifth of the population. They are predominant in four of the largest cities in Afghanistan (Kabul, Mazar-e Sharif, Herat, and Ghazni) and make up the largest ethnic group in the northern and western provinces of Balkh, Takhar, Badakhshan, Samangan, Parwan, Panjshir, Kapisa, Baghlan, Ghor, Badghis and Herat.\n\nIn Afghanistan, the Tajiks do not organize themselves by tribes and refer to themselves by the region, province, city, town, or village that they are from; such as \"Badakhshi\", \"Baghlani\", \"Mazari\", \"Panjsheri\", \"Kabuli\", \"Herati\", \"Kohistani\" etc. Although in the past, some non-Pashto speaking tribes were identified as Tajik, for example the Furmuli.\n\nIn Uzbekistan, the Tajiks are the largest part of the population of the ancient cities of Bukhara and Samarkand, and are found in large numbers in the Surxondaryo Province in the south and along Uzbekistan's eastern border with Tajikistan. According to official statistics (2000), Surxondaryo Province accounts for 24.4% of all Tajiks in Uzbekistan, with another 34.3% in Samarqand and Bukhara provinces.\n\nOfficial statistics in Uzbekistan state that the Tajik community comprises 5% of the nation's total population. However, these numbers do not include ethnic Tajiks who, for a variety of reasons, choose to identify themselves as Uzbeks in population census forms. During the Soviet \"Uzbekization\" supervised by Sharof Rashidov, the head of the Uzbek Communist Party, Tajiks had to choose either stay in Uzbekistan and get registered as Uzbek in their passports or leave the republic for Tajikistan, which is mountainous and less agricultural. It is only in the last population census (1989) that the nationality could be reported not according to the passport, but freely declared on the basis of the respondent's ethnic self-identification. This had the effect of increasing the Tajik population in Uzbekistan from 3.9% in 1979 to 4.7% in 1989. Expert estimates suggest that Tajiks may make up 35% of Uzbekistan's population.\n\nChinese Tajiks or Mountain Tajiks in China (Sarikoli: , \"Tujik\"; ), including Sarikolis (majority) and Wakhis (minority) in China, are the Pamiri ethnic group that lives in the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region in Northwestern China. They are one of the 56 nationalities officially recognized by the government of the People's Republic of China.\n\nAccording to the 1999 population census, there were 26,000 Tajiks in Kazakhstan (0.17% of the total population), about the same number as in the 1989 census.\n\nAccording to official statistics, there were about 47,500 Tajiks in Kyrgyzstan in 2007 (0.9% of the total population), up from 42,600 in the 1999 census and 33,500 in the 1989 census.\n\nAccording to the last Soviet census in 1989, there were 3,149 Tajiks in Turkmenistan, or less than 0.1% of the total population of 3.5 million at that time. The first population census of independent Turkmenistan conducted in 1995 showed 3,103 Tajiks in a population of 4.4 million (0.07%), most of them (1,922) concentrated in the eastern provinces of Lebap and Mary adjoining the borders with Afghanistan and Uzbekistan.\n\nThe population of Tajiks in Russia is about 200,303 according to the 2010 census, up from 38,000 in the last Soviet census of 1989. Most Tajiks came to Russia after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, often as guest workers.\n\nThere are an estimated 220,000 Tajiks in Pakistan as of 2012, mainly refugees from Afghanistan. During the 1990s, as a result of the Tajikistan Civil War, between 700 and 1,200 Tajikistanis arrived in Pakistan, mainly as students, the children of Tajikistani refugees in Afghanistan. In 2002, around 300 requested to return home and were repatriated back to Tajikistan with the help of the IOM, UNHCR and the two countries' authorities.\n\nOn the whole, Tajiks are a genetically diverse population, displaying a wide range of phenotypes. Around 10% of Tajiks are said to have blond hair, more prevalent in the Zarafshan and Pamir region, where they are known as Pamiri people. Some ethnic Tajiks, particularly those from Tajikistan, show clear Mongoloid admixture possibly originating from their Kyrgyz and Uzbek neighbors. The dominant haplogroup among modern Tajiks is the Haplogroup R1a Y-DNA. ~45% of Tajik men share R1a (M17), ~18% J (M172), and ~8% R2 (M124). Tajiks of Panjikent score 68% R1a, Tajiks of Khojant score 64% R1a. The high frequency of haplogroup R1a in the Tajiks probably reflects a strong founder effect.\n\nThe language of the Tajiks is an eastern dialect of Persian, called Dari (derived from \"Darbārī\", \"[of/from the] royal courts\", in the sense of \"courtly language\"), or also Parsi-e Darbari. In Tajikistan, where Cyrillic script is used, it is called the Tajiki language. In Afghanistan, unlike in Tajikistan, Tajiks continue to use the Perso-Arabic script, as well as in Iran. However, when the Soviet Union introduced the Latin script in 1928, and later the Cyrillic script, the Persian dialect of Tajikistan came to be considered a separate (Persian) language. Since the 19th century, Tajiki has been strongly influenced by the Russian language and has incorporated many Russian language loan words. It has also adopted fewer Arabic loan words than Iranian Persian, while retaining vocabulary that has fallen out of use in the latter language. In Tajikistan, in ordinary speech, also known as “zaboni kucha” (lit. \"street language\", as opposed to “zaboni adabi”, lit. \"literary language\", which is used in schools, media etc.), many urban Tajiks prefer to use Russian loanwords instead of their literary Persian analogs.\n\nThe dialects of contemporary Tajiks in present-day Tajikistan, Afghanistan, and Uzbekistan and of the Persians in present-day Iran are accepted to have a common origin. This is due to the fact that one of Greater Iran's historical cultural capitals, called Greater Khorasan, which included parts of modern Central Asia and much of Afghanistan and constitutes as the Tajik's ancestral homeland, played a key role in the development and propagation of Persian language and culture throughout much of Greater Iran after the Muslim conquest. Furthermore, early manuscripts of the historical Persian spoken in Mashhad during the development of Middle to New Persian show that their origins came from Sistan, in present-day Afghanistan.\n\nVarious scholars have recorded the Zoroastrian, Buddhist, and Aryan pre-Islamic heritage of the Tajik people. Early temples for fire worship have been found in Balkh and Bactria and excavations in present-day Tajikistan and Uzbekistan show remnants of Zoroastrian fire temples.\n\nToday, however, the great majority of Tajiks follow Sunni Islam, although small Twelver and Ismaili Shia minorities also exist in scattered pockets. Areas with large numbers of Shias include Herat, Bamyan, Badakhshan provinces in Afghanistan, the Gorno-Badakhshan Autonomous Province in Tajikistan, and Tashkurgan Tajik Autonomous County in China. Some of the famous Islamic scholars were from either modern or historical East-Iranian regions lying in Afghanistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan and therefore can arguably be viewed as Tajiks. They include Abu Hanifa, Imam Bukhari, Tirmidhi, Abu Dawood, Nasir Khusraw and many others. \n\nAccording to a 2009 U.S. State Department release, the population of Tajikistan is 98% Muslim, (approximately 85% Sunni and 5% Shia). In Afghanistan, the great number of Tajiks adhere to Sunni Islam. The smaller number of Tajiks who may follow Twelver Shia Islam are locally called Farsiwan. The community of Bukharian Jews in Central Asia speak a dialect of Persian. The Bukharian Jewish community in Uzbekistan is the largest remaining community of Central Asian Jews and resides primarily in Bukhara and Samarkand, while the Bukharaian Jews of Tajikistan live in Dushanbe and number only a few hundred. From the 1970s to the 1990s the majority of these Tajik-speaking Jews emigrated to the United States and to Israel in accordance with Aliyah. Recently, the Protestant community of Tajiks descent has experienced significant growth, a 2015 study estimates some 2,600 Muslim Tajik converted to Christianity.\n\nTajikistan marked 2009 as the year to commemorate the Tajik Sunni Muslim jurist Abu Hanifa, whose ancestry hailed from Parwan Province of Afghanistan, as the nation hosted an international symposium that drew scientific and religious leaders. The construction of one of the largest mosques in the world, funded by Qatar, was announced in October 2009. The mosque is planned to be built in Dushanbe and construction is said to be completed by 2014.\n\nThe collapse of the Soviet Union and the Civil War in Afghanistan both gave rise to a resurgence in Tajik nationalism across the region, including a trial to revert to the Perso-Arabic script in Tajikistan. Furthermore, Tajikistan in particular has been a focal point for this movement, and the government there has made a conscious effort to revive the legacy of the Samanid empire, the first Tajik-dominated state in the region after the Arab advance. For instance, the President of Tajikistan, Emomalii Rahmon, dropped the Russian suffix \"-ov\" from his surname and directed others to adopt Tajik names when registering births. According to a government announcement in October 2009, approximately 4,000 Tajik nationals have dropped \"ov\" and \"ev\" from their surnames since the start of the year.\n\nIn an interview to Iranian news media in May 2008, Tajikistan's deputy culture minister said that Tajikistan would study the issue of switching its Tajik alphabet from Cyrillic to the Persian script used in Iran and Afghanistan when the government feels that \"the Tajik people became familiar with the Persian alphabet\". More recently, the Islamic Renaissance Party of Tajikistan seeks to have the nation's language referred to as \"Tajiki-Farsi\" rather than \"Tajik.\" The proposal has drawn criticism from Russian media since the bill seeks to remove the Russian language as the mode of interethnic communication. In 1989, the original name of the language (Farsi) was added to its official name in brackets. However, Rahmon's government renamed the language to simply 'Tajiki' in 1994. On October 2009, Tajikistan adopted the law that removes Russian as the \"language for interethnic communication.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5075009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075009", "title": "Tama people", "text": "Tama people\n\nTama is a non-Arab, African ethnic group of people who live in eastern Chad and western Sudan. They speak Tama, a Nilo-Saharan language. The population is 200,000–300,000 people and they practice Islam. Many Tama are subsistence farmers who live in permanent settlements and some raise livestock. In the civil war in Chad (2005–2010) the Tama were involved in ethnic conflicts with the Zaghawa tribe.\n\nThe Tama people are a non-Arab (i.e., \"African\" or \"black\") tribe that live in Dar Tama in northeastern Chad and Darfur in western Sudan. They number 200,000–300,000. They speak Tama, a Nilo-Saharan language. Many of the Tama are subsistence farmers who live in permanent settlements and raise millet, beans, cucumbers, gumbo, and sesame. They also raise cattle, camels and goats. The majority of Tama are Muslims, but they also have some animistic beliefs.\n\nThe Tama are made up of a number of subgroups: Abu Sharib (approximately 50,000 people), Asungor (60,000), Dagel, Erenga (35,000), Gimr (50,000), Kibet, Marari (20,000), Mileri (9,000), and Tama proper.\n\nThe traditional home of the Tama is Dar Tama. All reside in Chad, except the Gimr and the Mileri, who live near Saref Omra and Kebkabiya in Sudan. In 2006, due to violence between the Tama and the Zaghawa, 1,800 Tama refugees fled to Mile and Kounoungo, United Nations-sponsored refugee camps.\n\nFor centuries, the Tama were governed by sultans. Many of these were believed to be of Dadjo origin. In the 1800s they were a warlike tribe who was known for their use of the spear, who had maintained their independence for the previous two centuries. On at least two occasions, they resisted the invasions from other tribes.\n\nAt various times they have been subjected to the sultans of Wadai on the west and Darfur on the east, but have always had their own sultan. For example, they were part of the Sultanate of Darfur in the early 1800s. Turkish-Egypian Sudan governed the area in the late 1800s. During the French colonial period, France really only governed southern Chad, and therefore not the Dar Tama region, but a figurehead sultan was put in place to govern the area.\n\nDuring the Sahelian drought of the 1980s, the Zaghawa migrated to Dar Tama and displaced some of the Tama.\n\nAt the time of the Chadian civil war the rebel group United Front for Democratic Change (FUC) largely consisted of Tama. The Zaghawa felt the Tama supported this rebel group that opposed the Chadian government, which was led by President Idriss Déby, a member of the Zaghawa tribe, though there was little activity of any rebel group on the community level.\n\nA 2006 robbery of a Tama man and an ensuing gunfight that caused 20 deaths and 9 serious injuries was cited as the event that triggered increased violence. After that, the Zaghawa increased the frequency and violence of their theft of Tama cattle. In 2006, dozens of Tama were killed by Zaghawa militants and thousands of Tama were displaced after Zaghawa attacks on Tama villages.\n\nIn August 2006, 3,300 Tama civilians fled from Dar Tama to Sudan because some Zaghawa accused a Tama man of raping one of their women. In October, 1,800 refugees fled to Mile and Kounoungo, UN-sponsored refugee camps. Human Rights Watch could not corroborate allegations of Tama attacks on Zaghawa civilians. The Chadian government and police did little to investigate or condemn the increasing violence.\n\n"}
{"id": "794088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=794088", "title": "Thembu people", "text": "Thembu people\n\nThe Thembu people are one of the handful of nations and population groups that speak Xhosa in South Africa.\n\nThe most internationally famous Thembu person was Nelson Mandela, whose father was a reigning nobleman from a junior branch of the Madiba clan of kings. Walter Sisulu was also of Thembu descent from his mother's side.\n\nIn Xhosa, the name is \"abaThembu\", \"aba-\" being a common prefix for peoples. The land in which they lived was historically known as Thembuland.\n\nIn the 19th century, the Thembu were frequently known as the \"Tamboekie\" or \"Tambookie\" people. This name was originally the Khoisan term specifically for the Thembu followers of Chief Maphasa who moved into the area west of the Great Kei River in the 1820s. Europeans however, who were often not aware of the distinction, used the term as a synonym for \"Thembu\" for much of the 19th century.\n\nPrior to the British conquest and incorporation of their territory, called \"Tembuland\" in the 19th century, the Thembu had an independent kingdom. The clan name of the Thembu kings is Madiba. Recent kings, including Sabata Jonguhlanga Dalindyebo, have used the surname of Dalindyebo, from the name of a 19th-century king.\n\nAfter conquest, the Thembu were administered by the government of the Cape Colony as one of the Transkeian Territories, which with the exception of a few missionaries and white traders, were treated as lands reserved for African occupation. Other peoples in the territories who had formerly had independent kingdoms included the Gcaleka branch of the Xhosa, the Mpondo (who split into two kingdoms late in the 19th century), the Bhaca and the Xesibe. Under apartheid the Transkei was turned into a bantustan. In the ethnic theory underpinning apartheid, the Transkei was regarded as the \"homeland\" of the Xhosa people. As a result, the Thembu people are often misidentified as being Xhosa.\n\nBuyelekhaya Dalindyebo, son of Sabata Jonguhlanga Dalindyebo, has reigned as Thembu king since May 1989; his praise name is \"Zwelibanzi\". Sabata deposed Kaiser Matanzima, whom the Apartheid government had installed and who advocated against South African liberation movements. In December 2009 King Buyelekhaya was convicted of offences including culpable homicide, kidnapping, arson and assault. In response he proposed secession from South Africa and later demanded that the government pay Dalindyebo R 900 million and the tribe a further R 80 billion in compensation for the humiliation caused by the criminal trial.\n\nDalindyebo was imprisoned in December 2015, has since been customarily dethroned, and is expected to be administratively dethroned in the near future.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46527158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46527158", "title": "Turkish settlers in Northern Cyprus", "text": "Turkish settlers in Northern Cyprus\n\nTurkish settlers in Northern Cyprus (Cypriot Turkish: \"Türkiyeliler\", \"those from Turkey\"), also referred to as Turkish immigrants () are a group of mainland Turkish people who have settled in Northern Cyprus since the Turkish invasion in 1974. It is estimated that these settlers and their descendants (not including Turkish soldiers) now make up about half the population of the North.\n\nThe group is heterogeneous in nature and is composed of various sub-groups, with varying degrees of integration. Mainland Turks are generally considered to be more conservative than the highly secularized Turkish Cypriots, and tend to be more in favor of a two-state Cyprus. However, not all settlers support nationalist policies.\n\nMainland Turks in Northern Cyprus are divided into two main groups: citizens and non-citizen residents. Within the citizens, some have arrived in the island as a part of a settlement policy run by the Turkish and Turkish Cypriot authorities, some have migrated on their own and some have been born in the island to parents of either groups. Mete Hatay argues that only the first group has \"good reason to be called settlers\".\n\nThe aforementioned sub-groups consist of several categories. The first group, citizens, can further be differentiated into skilled laborers and white-collar workers, Turkish soldiers and their close families, farmers who have settled in Cyprus and individual migrants. The non-citizens can be divided into students and academic staff, tourists, workers with permits and illegitimate workers lacking permits. Farmers settled from Turkey between 1975 and 1977 constitute the majority of the settler population.\n\nThe policy of settling farmers in Cyprus began immediately after the 1974 invasion. Andrew Borowiec wrote of a Turkish announcement that 5000 agricultural workers would be settled to take up possessions left behind by the displaced Greek Cypriots. According to Hatay, the first group of such settlers arrived on the island in February 1975; heavy settlement continued until 1977. These farmers originated from various regions of Turkey, including the Black Sea Region (Trabzon, Çarşamba, Samsun), the Mediterranean Region (Antalya, Adana, Mersin) and the Central Anatolia Region (Konya). In February 1975, the number of \"workers\" from Turkey in the island was 910.\n\nThe policy of settling farmers was conducted along the lines of the Agricultural Workforce Agreement signed by the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus (TFSC) and Turkey in 1975. The consulates of the TFSC in Turkey were actively involved in organizing the transfer of this population; announcements through the radio and muhtars in villages called upon farmers interested in moving to Cyprus to apply to the consulates. Many farmers who moved to Cyprus were from parts of Turkey with harsh living conditions or had to be displaced. This was the case with the village of Kayalar, where people from the Turkish Black Sea district of Çarşamba were moved. These people were displaced due to the flooding of their village by a dam that was built, and were given a choice between moving to Cyprus and other regions in Turkey; some chose Cyprus. Christos Ioannides argued that these people had no political motivations for this choice; interviews with some have indicated that some did not know the location of Cyprus before moving there.\n\nAfter the applications of the prospective settlers were approved, they were transported to the port of Mersin in buses specially arranged by the state. They exited Turkey using passports, one of which were issued for every family, and then took the ferry to cross the Mediterranean Sea to Cyprus. Once they arrived in Famagusta, they were initially accommodated briefly in empty hostels or schools, and then transferred to the Greek Cypriot villages, which were their destinations of settlement. The families were assigned houses by lot.\n\nThe paperwork of these settlers were initially done in a way that would make them appear to be Turkish Cypriots returning to their homeland, to prevent accusations of violation of the Geneva Convention. Once the settlers arrived, Turkish Cypriot officers gathered them in the village coffeehouse, collected their personal information, and the settlers were assigned the closest Turkish Cypriot-inhabited village to their place of residence as their place of birth in their special identity cards that were subsequently produced. For example, a number of settlers in the Karpass Peninsula had the Turkish Cypriot village of Mehmetçik as their place of birth. When asked about the policy of settlement, İsmet Kotak, the Minister of Labor, Rehabilitation and Social Works of the TFSC, said that what was happening was an intense, rightful and legal return of Turkish Cypriots that had been forcefully driven out of the island. However, these special identity cards did not prove effective in achieving their mission and TFSC identity cards showing the settlers' actual place of birth were issued.\n\nThe Greek Cypriot position regarding the settlers is that the settlement violated the Fourth Geneva Convention, which prohibits an occupying power from willfully transferring its own population to the occupied area, and thus amounts to a war crime. Greek Cypriot politicians have thus advocated a return of all settlers to Turkey in a solution of the Cyprus dispute. However, many of the settlers have severed their ties to mainland Turkey and in the cases of return by some, they were ostracized in their places of origin. The children of the settlers also consider Cyprus to be their homeland. Thus, according to the \"Encyclopedia of Human Rights\", many have argued that the settlers cannot be forcefully expelled from the island and \"most observers\" agree that a solution must \"balance the overall legality of the settlement program with the human rights of the settlers\".\n\nDespite the prevalent assumption that settlers helped maintain the right-wing National Unity Party's (UBP) decades-long power and consecutive electoral victories, this is incorrect, as between 1976 and 1993, the UBP received more votes in native than in settler villages. These trends were determined by the analysis of votes across several native and settler villages by the political scientist Mete Hatay. There was a political movement that was based on the representation of what they saw as the settlers' interests; this line of politics included the New Dawn Party (YDP) and Turkish Union Party (TBP). The majority of the vote in settler villages were divided between these settler parties and mainstream Turkish Cypriot opposition, including the Communal Liberation Party (TKP) and the Republican Turkish Party (CTP). Between 1992, when it was founded, and the election of 2003, which represented a shift away from it, the Democratic Party (DP) received the majority of settler opposition votes. Meanwhile, between 1990 and 2003, the UBP maintained a vote share averaging at around 40% at settler villages, but this was still less than the support it received in rural areas inhabited by native Turkish Cypriots. The UBP only received more support in settler villages in 1993 and after 2003, when it lost power. Furthermore, despite the prevalent assumption that the settlers advance the political interests of Turkey, settlers have voted against the line backed by Turkey at times, notably in 1990 against the Turkey-backed UBP and Rauf Denktaş and in 2004 against the Annan Plan for Cyprus.\n\n"}
{"id": "10201832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10201832", "title": "Wala people", "text": "Wala people\n\nThe Wala or Waala live in Upper West Region of Ghana. They are a predominantly Muslim people who are the founders of the city of Wa and the Kingdom of Wala. They speak the Wali language, which belongs to the Gur group. There are 84,800 speakers of the language as of 2013. Their neighbors are the Birifor, Dagaaba, and Vagla peoples.\n\nTheir culture is similar to other Gur-speaking, Senoufo and Mande groups in northern Cote d'Ivoire, Burkina Faso and Mali. They are known for their impressive Sudano-Sahelian style mosques and palaces. They are ruled by their traditional ruler, the Wa-Na whose traditional residence is a mud-brick built palace in Wa.\n\nAccording to the 1921 census of Ghana the Wala numbered 16,905, although it is thought that that census missed some of the small villages in the Wa District. This meant that at the time they were outnumbered in Wa District by the Dagarti. In many ways the difference between Dagarti and Wa is which side of the rebellion they were on in 1894, those who sided with the Wa-Na coming to be the Wala, and those who rebelled being considered part of the Dagarti people. The number of Dagarti was so high because the British had imposed the pre-1894 boundaries of the Kingdom of Wala as the boundaries of the District of Wa.\n"}
{"id": "58076599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58076599", "title": "Wesley Bell (attorney)", "text": "Wesley Bell (attorney)\n\nWesley Bell is a St. Louis area attorney, former public defender, former municipal judge, former municipal prosecutor, and currently city council member for Ferguson, Missouri, who is Prosecuting Attorney-Elect of St. Louis County, Missouri. In a major upset, he soundly defeated long-time yet controversial county prosecutor Bob McCulloch in the July 2018 Democratic primary election. After his uncontested win in the November general election, Bell will become the first black county prosecuting attorney in St. Louis County history when he takes office in January 2019. \n\nBell was raised in North St. Louis County, Missouri. He is the son of a police officer father and civil servant mother. Bell is a graduate of Hazelwood East High School, Lindenwood University, and University of Missouri School of Law.\nAfter graduating from law school Bell worked as a St. Louis County public defender, an adjunct law professor, and a municipal court judge. In 2015 during the Ferguson Uprising he was elected to the city council with strong support from some activists. During his time on the council he worked with Obama’s DOJ to implement the consent decree to reform the city’s criminal justice system through both police and court reform. \n\nRunning for the county prosecutor race on a platform of community based policing, assigning special prosecutors in homicides by police, pledging to never seek the death penalty, reforming cash bail/bond and never using it for low-level offenses, expanding diversion programs and the county’s drug courts, and promoting equitable due process, he received significant support from local and national activists and advocacy groups.\n\nBetween the election and Bell's taking office a political conversation began about whether Fitch, who is n opponent of the death penalty, would ask for a death penalty in the event that Thomas Bruce, the suspect in the Catholic Supply shooting, is convicted.. Bell pledged during the campaign to never seek the death penalty. Former St. Louis police chief Tim Fitch has urged Bell to turn the case over to federal prosecutors so that they can seek the death penalty.\n\n"}
{"id": "923044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923044", "title": "Yugoslavs", "text": "Yugoslavs\n\nYugoslavs or Yugoslavians (Serbo-Croatian: \"Jugoslaveni/\"Југославени, \"Jugosloveni/\"Југословени; Macedonian: Југословени; Slovene: \"Jugoslovani\") is a designation that was originally designed to refer to a united South Slavic people. It has been used in two connotations, the first in an ethnic or supra-ethnic connotation, and the second as a term for citizens of the former Yugoslavia. Cultural and political advocates of Yugoslav identity have historically ascribed the identity to be applicable to all people of South Slav heritage, including those of today's Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, and Slovenia. Attempts at uniting Bulgaria into Yugoslavia were however unsuccessful and therefore Bulgarians were not included in the panethnic identification.\n\nSince the dissolution of SFR Yugoslavia and the establishment of South Slavic nation states, the term \"ethnic Yugoslavs\" has been used to refer to those who exclusively view themselves as Yugoslavs with no other ethnic self-identification, many of these being of mixed ancestry.\n\nIn late 19th and early 20th century, influential public intellectuals Jovan Cvijić and Vladimir Dvorniković advocated that \"Yugoslavs\", as a supra-ethnic nation, had \"many tribal ethnicities, such as Croats, Serbs, and others within it\".\n\nIn the SFR Yugoslavia, the official designation for those who declared themselves simply as \"Yugoslav\" was with quotation marks, \"Yugoslavs\" (introduced in census 1971). The quotation marks were originally meant to distinguish Yugoslav ethnicity from Yugoslav citizenship – which was written without quotation marks. The majority of those who had once identified as ethnic \"Yugoslavs\" reverted to or adopted traditional ethnic and national identities. Some also decided to turn to sub-national regional identifications, especially in multi-ethnic historical regions like Istria, Vojvodina, or Bosnia (hence Bosnians). The Yugoslav designation, however, continues to be used by many, especially by the descendants of Yugoslav migrants in the United States, Canada and Australia while the country still existed.\n\nSince the late 18th century, when traditional European ethnic affiliations started to mature into modern ethnic identities, there have been numerous attempts to define a common South Slavic ethnic identity. The word \"Yugoslav\", meaning \"South Slavic\", was first used by Josip Juraj Strossmayer in 1849. The first modern iteration of Yugoslavism was the Illyrian movement in Habsburg Croatia. It identified South Slavs with ancient Illyrians and sought to construct a common language based on the Shtokavian dialect. The movement was led by Ljudevit Gaj, whose script became one of two official scripts used for the Serbo-Croatian language.\n\nAmong notable supporters of Yugoslavism and a Yugoslav identity active at the beginning of the 20th century were famous sculptor Ivan Meštrović (1883–1962), who called Serbian folk hero Prince Marko \"our Yugoslav people with its gigantic and noble heart\" and wrote poetry speaking of a \"Yugoslav race\"; Jovan Cvijić, in his article \"The Bases of Yugoslav Civilization\", developed the idea of a unified Yugoslav culture and stated that \"New qualities that until now have been expressed but weakly will appear. An amalgamation of the most fertile qualities of our three tribes [Serbs, Croats, Slovenes] will come forth every more strongly, and thus will be constructed the type of single Yugoslav civilization-the final and most important goal of our country.\"\n\nOn 28 June 1914, Gavrilo Princip shot and killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand, the heir to the Austrian throne, and his wife, in Sarajevo. Princip was a member of Young Bosnia, a group whose aims included the unification of the Yugoslavs and independence from Austria-Hungary. The assassination in Sarajevo set into motion a series of fast-moving events that eventually escalated into full-scale war. After his capture, during his trial, he stated \"I am a Yugoslav nationalist, aiming for the unification of all Yugoslavs, and I do not care what form of state, but it must be free from Austria.\"\n\nIn June–July 1917, the Yugoslav Committee met with the Serbian Government in Corfu and on 20 July the Corfu Declaration that laid the foundation for the post-war state was issued. The preamble stated that the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes were \"the same by blood, by language, by the feelings of their unity, by the continuity and integrity of the territory which they inhabit undivided, and by the common vital interests of their national survival and manifold development of their moral and material life.\" The state was created as the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, a constitutional monarchy under the Karađorđević dynasty. The term \"Yugoslavs\" was used to refer to all of its inhabitants, but particularly to those of South Slavic ethnicity. Some Croatian nationalists viewed the Serb plurality and Serbian royal family as hegemonic. Eventually, a conflict of interest sparked among the Yugoslav peoples. In 1929, King Alexander sought to resolve a deep political crisis brought on by ethnic tensions by assuming dictatorial powers in the 6 January Dictatorship, renaming the country \"Kingdom of Yugoslavia\", and officially pronouncing that there is one single Yugoslav nation with three tribes. The Yugoslav ethnic designation was thus imposed for a period of time on all South Slavs in Yugoslavia. Changes in Yugoslav politics after King Alexander's death in 1934 brought an end to this policy, but the designation continued to be used by some people.\n\nPhilosopher Vladimir Dvorniković advocated the establishment of a Yugoslav ethnicity in his 1939 book entitled \"The Characterology of the Yugoslavs\". His views included eugenics and cultural blending to create one, strong Yugoslav nation.\n\nThere had on three occasions been efforts to make Bulgaria a part of Yugoslavia or part of an even larger federation: through Aleksandar Stamboliyski during and after World War I; through Zveno during the Bulgarian coup d'état of 1934, and through Georgi Dimitrov during and after World War II, but for various reasons, each attempt turned out to be unsuccessful.\n\nAfter liberation from Axis Powers in 1945, the new socialist Yugoslavia became a federal country, and officially recognized and valued its ethnic diversity. Traditional ethnic identities again became the primary ethnic designations used by most inhabitants of Yugoslavia. However, many people still declared themselves as \"Yugoslavs\" because they wanted to express an identification with Yugoslavia as a whole, but not specifically with any of its peoples.\n\nJosip Broz Tito expressed his desire for an undivided Yugoslav ethnicity when he stated, \"I would like to live to see the day when Yugoslavia would become amalgamated into a firm community, when she would no longer be a formal community but a community of a single Yugoslav nation.\"\n\nThe 1971 census recorded 273,077 Yugoslav, or 1.33% of the total population. The 1981 census recorded 1,216,463 or 5.4% Yugoslavs. In the 1991 census, 5.54% (242,682) of the inhabitants of Bosnia and Herzegovina declared themselves to be Yugoslav. 4.25% of the population of the republic of Montenegro also declared themselves Yugoslav in the same census.\n\nThe Constitution of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina from 1990 ratified a Presidency of seven members. One of the seven was to be elected amongst/by the republic's Yugoslavs, thereby introducing the Yugoslavs next to Muslims by nationality, Serbs and Croats into the Constitutional framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina although on an inferior level. However, because of the Bosnian War that erupted in 1992, this Constitution was short-lived and unrealized.\n\nThe 1981 census showed that Yugoslavs made up around 8% of the population in Croatia, this to date has been the highest percentage of \"Yugoslavs\" within Croatia's borders. The 1991 census data indicated that the number of Yugoslavs had dropped to 2% of the population in Croatia. The 2001 census in Croatia (the first since independence) registered only 176 Yugoslavs. The next census in 2011 registered 331 Yugoslavs in Croatia (0.008% of the population).\n\nJust before and after the dissolution of Yugoslavia, most Yugoslavs switched to more conventional ethnic designations. Nevertheless, the concept has survived into Bosnia and Herzegovina (where most towns have a tiny percentage), and Serbia and Montenegro (2003–2006), which kept the name \"Yugoslavia\" the longest, right up to February 2003.\n\nThe Yugoslavs of Croatia have several organizations. The \"Alliance of Yugoslavs\" (\"Savez Jugoslavena\"), established in 2010 in Zagreb, is an association aiming to unite the Yugoslavs of Croatia, regardless of religion, sex, political or other views. Its main goal is the official recognition of the Yugoslav nation in every Yugoslav successor state: Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro.\n\nAnother pro-Yugoslav organization advocating the recognition of the Yugoslav nation is the \"Our Yugoslavia\" association (\"Udruženje \"Naša Jugoslavija\"\"), which is an officially registered organization in Croatia. The seat of Our Yugoslavia is in the Istrian town of Pula, where it was founded on 30 July 2009. The association has most members in the towns of Rijeka, Zagreb and Pula. Its main aim is the stabilisation of relations among the Yugoslav successor states. It is also active in Bosnia and Herzegovina, however, its official registration as an association was denied by the Bosnian state authorities.\n\nThe probably best-known pro-Yugoslav organization in Montenegro is the \"Consulate-general of the SFRY\" with its headquarters in the coastal town of Tivat. Prior to the population census of 2011, Marko Perković, the president of this organization called on the Yugoslavs of Montenegro to freely declare their Yugoslav identity on the upcoming census.\n\nThe best known example of self-declared Yugoslavs is Marshal Josip Broz Tito who organized resistance against Nazi Germany in Yugoslavia, effectively expelled Nazi occupation of Yugoslavia, co-founded the Non-Aligned Movement, and defied Joseph Stalin's Soviet pressure on Yugoslavia. Other people that declared as \"Yugoslavs\" include intellectuals, entertainers, singers and sportspersons, such as:\n\nThe probably most frequently used symbol of the Yugoslavs to express their identity and to which they are most often associated with is the blue-white-red tricolor flag with a yellow-bordered red star in the flag's center, which also served as the national flag of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia between 1945 and 1991.\n\nPrior to World War II, the symbol of Yugoslavism was a plain tricolor flag of blue, white and red, which was also the national flag of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav state in the interwar period.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32688047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32688047", "title": "Yugoslavs in Serbia", "text": "Yugoslavs in Serbia\n\nYugoslavs in Serbia () refers to a community in Serbia that view themselves as \"Yugoslavs\" with no other ethnic self-identification. Additionally, there are also Serbs, Croats, Montenegrins and people of other ethnicities in Serbia who identify themselves as Yugoslavs. However, the latter group does not consider itself to be part of a Yugoslav nation, which is the way the first group identifies itself. People declaring themselves Yugoslavs are concentrated in Vojvodina.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census, some 23,303 people or 0.32% of the inhabitants of Serbia declared their ethnicity as Yugoslav.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54231552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54231552", "title": "Zaul people", "text": "Zaul people\n\nThe Zaul (, \"\" ) are an Agaw people whom inhabit the southern and central regions of Eritrea, in a territory known as the Eritrean highlands. They are spread across several villages and have largely assimilated to other ethnic groups within the country.\n\nZauls were one of the Agaw subgroups that made up the ruling class during the Zagwe Dynasty (ዛጉዌ, directly translating to \"Dynasty of the Agaw\"). After the Solomonic dynasty succeeded the Zagwe dynasty in 1270, the Agaw were recompensed with permanent settlement in the historic district of Wag. Some of the Agaws migrated north of Ethiopia to modern-day Eritrea. The Agaw subgroups that settled in Kebessa and Senhit are known as the Gebre TarKe, Adkeme Mliga, Liban and Zaul.\n\nThe majority of Zauls belong to the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church. Others practice Eastern Catholicism and an even smaller population practice Protestantism or Islam.\n\nMost Zauls speak Tigrinya, Tigre, or Bilen. Other Agaw languages are spoken but used much less frequently.\n\n"}
