{"id": "54189079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54189079", "title": "ADRI", "text": "ADRI\n\nThe ADRI approach to evaluation of an organization's effectiveness considers the following:\n\n\nThe approach is used to improve quality in a cyclical manner at many universities. It is also used for independent reviews of organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1429202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1429202", "title": "Agency shop", "text": "Agency shop\n\nAn agency shop is a form of union security agreement where the employer may hire union or non-union workers, and employees need not join the union in order to remain employed. However, the non-union worker must pay a fee to cover collective bargaining costs. The fee paid by non-union members under the agency shop is known as the \"agency fee\".\n\nWhere the agency shop is illegal, as is common in labor law governing American public sector unions, a \"fair share provision\" may be agreed to by the union and the employer. The provision requires non-union employees to pay a \"fair share fee\" to cover the costs of the union's collective bargaining activities. The \"fair share\" is similar to the agency shop, but usually more restrictive as to what may be charged to the non-member. In Canada, the agency fee is usually known as the Rand formula. In the United States, compelling payment of agency fees from non-union employees in the public sector was held unconstitutional in Janus v. AFSCME, in June 2018. \n\nInternational Labour Organization covenants do not address the legality of agency fee provisions, leaving the question up to each individual nation. The legal status of agency shop agreements varies widely from country to country, ranging from bans on the agreement to extensive regulation of the agreement to not mentioning it at all.\n\n"}
{"id": "34616955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34616955", "title": "Arthur Hadfield Fisher", "text": "Arthur Hadfield Fisher\n\nArthur Hadfield Fisher (11 February 1871 – 23 March 1961) was a New Zealand cricketer and businessman.\n\nHe was born in Nelson, New Zealand. He played for Otago from 1890-91 to 1909-10 as a left-arm medium-pace bowler, taking 197 wickets at an average of 16.38. Against a touring Queensland cricket team in 1896-97 he took 9 for 50 in the first innings.\n\nHe represented New Zealand, in the days before New Zealand had Test status, in matches against Australian and English teams. Against the MCC in Wellington in 1906-07, he took 4 for 25 and 5 for 61 in a 56-run victory for New Zealand.\n\nHe died in Dunedin in 1961 at the age of 90.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52433695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52433695", "title": "Bound Together Anarchist Collective Bookstore", "text": "Bound Together Anarchist Collective Bookstore\n\nBound Together Anarchist Collective Bookstore is an anarchist bookstore and visitor attraction in the Haight-Ashbury neighborhood of San Francisco. Its Lonely Planet review in 2016, commenting on its multiple activities, states that it \"makes us tools of the state look like slackers\".\n\nMembers of the collective started the Prisoners Literature Project which has sent books to imprisoned persons for more than 30 years, as of 2016.\n\nIt coordinates the annual Bay Area Anarchist Book Fair.\n\nIt is at located at 1369 Haight Street. It was founded in 1976 and operated at the corner of Hayes St. and Ashbury St. from then until 1983. One of the early members was Joey Cain. It was named \"Bound Together Bookstore\" during the 1976-83 period, then took on the formal name \"Bound Together: An Anarchist Collective Bookstore\".\n\nThe store's side is decorated by a mural titled \"Anarchists of the Americas\". A restoration of the mural was dedicated on November 1, 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "7005392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7005392", "title": "Business Roundtable", "text": "Business Roundtable\n\nThe Business Roundtable (BRT) is a group of chief executive officers of major U.S. corporations formed to promote pro-business public policy.\n\nThe Roundtable was founded in 1972 by John Harper, the head of Alcoa, and Fred J. Borch, CEO of General Electric, who were concerned about growing public hostility toward corporations as evidenced by support for government regulation of the workplace environment and about the power of unions to squeeze corporate profits in an increasingly competitive international market. The two CEOs talked with John Connally, President Nixon's Secretary of the Treasury, and Arthur Burns, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, who advised them to set up a lobbying organization that would specifically represent large banks and corporations. Harper was the first president, followed by Thomas Murphy of General Motors, Irving Shapiro of DuPont, and Clifford Garvin of Exxon. \n\nThe group was formed through the merger of three existing organizations: the March Group, consisting of chief executive officers who met informally to consider public policy issues; the Construction Users Anti-Inflation Roundtable, a group devoted to containing construction costs; and, the Labor Law Study Committee, largely made up of labor relations executives of major companies. The group has called itself President Obama's \"closest ally in the business community.\"\n\nThe Business Roundtable played a key role in defeating an anti-trust bill in 1975 and a Ralph Nader plan for a consumer protection agency in 1977. It also helped dilute the Humphrey-Hawkins Full Employment Act. But the Roundtable's most significant victory was in blocking labor law reform that sought to strengthen labor law to make it more difficult for companies to intimidate workers who wanted to form unions. The AFL-CIO produced a bill in 1977 that passed the House. But the Roundtable voted to oppose the bill, and through its aggressive lobbying, it prevented the bill's Senate supporters from rounding up the 60 votes in the Senate necessary to withstand a filibuster.\n\nIn fiscal policy, the Roundtable was responsible for broadening the 1985 tax cuts signed into law by Ronald Reagan, lobbying successfully for sharp reductions in corporate taxes. In trade policy, it argued for opening foreign markets to American trade and investment. The Omnibus Trade Act of 1988 reflected the thinking of the Business Roundtable. In 1990, the Roundtable urged George Bush to initiate a free trade agreement with Mexico. In 1993, the Roundtable lobbied for NAFTA and against any strong side agreements on labor and the environment. It provided the money and leadership for the main pro-NAFTA lobby.\n\nThe Roundtable also successfully opposed changes in corporate governance that would have made boards of directors and CEOs more accountable to stockholders. In 1986, the Roundtable convinced the Securities and Exchange Commission to forgo new rules on merger and acquisitions, and in 1993 convinced President Clinton to water down his plan to impose penalties on excessive executive salaries. Citicorp CEO, John Reed, chairperson of the Roundtables Accounting Task Force, argued that Clinton's plan would have had negative effects on U.S. competitiveness. The Roundtable's Health, Welfare, and Retirement Income Task Force, chaired by Prudential Insurance CEO Robert C. Winters, cheered President Bush's plan, which consisted mainly of subsidies to the health care industry. The nation's health care system works well for the majority of Americans, the Roundtable announced in a June 1991 statement. \"We believe the solutions lie not in tearing down the present system, but in building upon it.\"\n\nIn a press release, it said it \"strongly supported passage of\" the No Child Left Behind Act of 2002, and was \"actively working with states on implementation.\" It has issued press releases, submitted editorials, given congressional testimony, and distributed position advertisements.\n\nThe Business Roundtable also acts as a major lobby that aims to extend or maintain administrators' rights/power in large companies. For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted the so-called \"shareholders’ access to proxy\" rule, which aimed to empower shareholders in the proposition and nomination of administrators of big corporations. The Business Roundtable was strongly against that rule, as its president John Castellani reported to the \"Washington Post\" about removing this rule: \"this is our highest priority [...] Literally all of our members have called about this\". And they got the upper hand: the SEC rule was finally dropped after intense lobbying and lawsuits.\n\nThe Business Roundtable wrote a letter to members of the House strongly endorsing the Customer Protection and End User Relief Act (H.R. 4413; 113th Congress). According to the Business Roundtable letter, a survey of chief financial officers and corporate treasurers \"underscores the urgent need for the end-user provisions\" in this bill because \"eighty-six percent of respondents indicated the fully collateralizing over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives would adversely impact business investment, acquisitions, research and development, and job creation.\" The letter concluded that the Business Roundtable \"supports efforts to increase transparency in the derivatives markets and enhance financial stability for the U.S. economy through thoughtful new regulation while avoiding needless costs.\"\n\nThe Business Roundtable has been identified by advocates for shareholder democracy and owners' rights as a primary inhibitor of progress in corporate governance, who claim that through its lobbying of the SEC, the NYSE, and other regulatory and self-regulatory institutions, the Business Roundtable has sought to limit shareholders proxy rights and the power to nominate directors. The critics of the Business Roundtable contend that rather than fighting on behalf of stockholders in companies, it has focused purely on increasing executive power and compensation, thereby diminishing return to the owners (shareholders) of these firms.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46614475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46614475", "title": "Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand", "text": "Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand\n\nThe Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand (CA ANZ) represents over 121,418 members in Australia, New Zealand and overseas.\n\nIn November 2013 the majority of members from the Institute of Chartered Accountants Australia and the New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants voted yes on a proposal to create Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe New Zealand Parliament passed the third and final reading of the Accounting Infrastructure Reform Bill (AIRB) on 30 October 2014. The Royal Charter and By-laws for Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand were approved and signed by Peter Cosgrove, Governor-General of Australia on 26 November 2014. The legal structure of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand, was formally implemented on 31 December 2014\n\nA Council is elected and appointed by members regionally. The Council is responsible for appointing the Board and assisting management in ensuring decisions are made in the best interest of Members. \nThe Council also advises the Board and management on Member and strategic issues.\n\nThe Board is the delegated decision-making body. It operates on a corporate model and has oversight responsibility for the development and approval of long term strategy and performance including key policy issues and oversight of risk.\n\nThe Strategic Leadership Team supports the CEO and is responsible for the day-to-day operation.\n\nRegional Councils represent Members in Australia and New Zealand by providing a voice for the Members in their region and advising the Council on member issues.\n\nEvery Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand Member living in New Zealand is represented by a Local Leadership Team (LLT) in their area.\n\nThe Chartered Accountant (CA) designation denotes an accountant qualified to offer the full range of accountancy services privately and to the public.\n\nThe \"Associate Chartered Accountant\" (ACA) designation is a mid-level qualification. The designation recognises individuals who may not wish to train to be Chartered Accountants but who want to be recognised for their skills in business and finance. The ACA designation is currently available in New Zealand only.\n\nThe designation \"Associate Chartered Accountant\" is not directly comparable to the \"Associate Chartered Accountant\" (ACA) designation offered by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales , the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.\n\nThe Accounting Technician (AT) designation is for individuals employed to oversee and manage financial accounts in roles such as Accounts Manager or Assistant Finance Manager. The AT designation is currently available in New Zealand only.\n\nNew Zealand's practice in this respect is not followed in other countries. For example, in the United Kingdom, accounting technicians generally belong to the Association of Accounting Technicians.\n\nFellowships (FCA) are awards granted to Chartered Accountants ANZ members to recognise outstanding achievement in and/or contribution to the profession of accountancy at either a local, national or international level.\n\nChartered Accountants may apply for a \"Certificate of Public Practice\". Every member who offers accounting services to the public must be a Chartered Accountant and hold a Certificate of Public Practice (CPP). The requirements for the issuing of this certificate are that (amongst others) a member must have had two years of acceptable practical experience while a member of the College of Chartered Accountants and have attended a course for new practitioners.\n"}
{"id": "10853282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10853282", "title": "Chief gaming officer", "text": "Chief gaming officer\n\nA chief gaming officer (abbreviated as CGO) is an executive position whose holder is focused on research and technical issues within a computer game company.\n\nThe first two companies that have employed this executive position are Bigpoint and Golden Worlds Entertainment Media Group. \n\nThe chief gaming officer or chief game officer is in charge of heading both the game development and the online/offline publishing functions of the company.\n\nThe CGO has authority to manage the online game production cycle from start to finish. As head of game development, he or she is solely responsible for the conceptualization and planning of new games, the budget allocations to different gaming projects, the budget allocation within each game, assembling a team of software developers and game designers, and ultimately, the approval of new games.\n\nAs head of online publishing, the CGO also manages the online publishing, web portal, localization, and user interaction for all of the company products. The CGO negotiates and executes the appropriate agreements for web hosting and networking services for game delivery to the community, resolving issues with local internet service providers, and making sure that appropriate online payment agreements and systems are in place in each country. In addition to the online publishing of individual games, he acts as the portal manager, coordinating the development and publishing teams for the company web portal, which is of vital importance for a company delivering its products and collecting its user fees exclusively through the Internet.\n\nThe CGO has the ultimate decision-making authority over the localization function, being the final person responsible for adapting each game to the geographical market where it is delivered. He interfaces directly with the community manager and marketing manager to ensure that the final product is delivered and marketed in the most effective way, consistently integrating customer feedback into new releases.\n\nThe CGO reports directly to the chief operating officer.\n\n"}
{"id": "4688726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4688726", "title": "Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States", "text": "Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States\n\nClearfield Trust Co. v. United States, 318 U.S. 363 (1943), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that federal negotiable instruments were governed by federal law, and thus the federal court had the authority to fashion a common law rule.\n\nOn April 28, 1936, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia mailed a check for $24.20, drawn on the Treasurer of the United States, to Clair Barner. The check was Barner's paycheck from the Works Progress Administration (WPA). Barner never received the check, which was stolen by an unknown party. The thief forged Barner's signature and cashed the check at the J.C. Penney department store in Clearfield, Pennsylvania, where the thief assumed the identity of Mr. Barner. J.C. Penney then turned the check over to Clearfield Trust Co. as its collection agent. Clearfield Trust Co. collected the check from the Federal Reserve Bank, knowing nothing about the forgery.\n\nOn May 10, 1936, Barner informed his supervisors at the WPA that he had not received his paycheck. His complaint made its way up the chain of command, and on November 30, 1936, Barner signed an affidavit alleging that the endorsement of his name on the check was forged. Neither J.C. Penney Co. nor Clearfield Trust Co. had any notice of the forgery until January 12, 1937, when the U.S. government sent its first notice about it. The United States sent its initial request for reimbursement on August 31, 1937, and filed suit against Clearfield Trust Co. in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania on November 16, 1939. The government based its cause of action on the express guaranty of prior endorsements by Clearfield Trust Co.\n\nThe District Court determined that the dispute should be governed by the state law of Pennsylvania. It then dismissed the government's complaint on grounds of laches, holding that because the United States unreasonably delayed in notifying Clearfield Trust Co. of the forgery, it was barred from recovery. The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the dismissal.\n\nJustice Douglas, writing for a unanimous United States Supreme Court, first distinguished the case from \"Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins\", holding that because the U.S. government was exercising a constitutionally-permitted function in disbursing its own funds and paying its debts, the commercial paper it issues should be governed by federal law rather than state law. Thus, the Erie doctrine rule -- that a United States District Court must apply the law of the state in which it is sitting -- did not apply. In the absence of an applicable Act of Congress, a federal court had the right to fashion a governing common law rule by its own standards.\n\nWhile the Court's decision explicitly retained the option of applying state law in fashioning a federal common law rule, the Court chose instead to fashion its own rule based on prior decisions. Justice Douglas identified a major federal interest in permitting the Court to fashion its own rule: uniformity in dealing with the vast amount of negotiable instruments and commercial paper issued by the federal government. Douglas reasoned that if each transaction were subject to the application of a multiplicity of different state laws, confusion and uncertainty in the administration of federal programs would be the result.\n\nJustice Douglas chose to follow the rule set forth in \"United States v. National Exchange Bank of Providence\", , in which the U.S. Supreme Court held that the U.S. government, “\"as drawee of commercial paper stands in no different light than any other drawee\"” and could recover on a check as a drawee from a person who had cashed a pension check with a forged endorsement, despite the government's protracted delay in giving notice of the forgery. The \"National Exchange Bank\" case held the government to conventional business terms, but said nothing about whether lack of prompt notice was a defense for nonpayment of a check. The Court held that the Pennsylvania state law -- requiring prompt notice from the drawee -- presumed injury to the defendant by the mere fact of delay. In this case, not only did Clearfield Trust Co. fail to demonstrate that it had suffered a loss because of the delay in notice, it could still recover the amount of the check from J.C. Penney, because none of its employees detected the fraud. The court chastised both companies for their \"neglect and error\" in accepting the forged check, and suggested that they should only be permitted to shift the loss to the drawee only when he can demonstrate that the delay in notice caused him damage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1980549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1980549", "title": "Coolhunting", "text": "Coolhunting\n\nCoolhunting is a neologism coined in the early 1990s referring to a new kind of marketing professionals who make observations and predictions in changes of new or existing \"cool\" cultural fads and trends. Coolhunting is also referred to as \"trend spotting,\" and is a subset of trend analysis.\n\nCoolhunters resemble the intuitive fashion magazine editors of the 1960s such as Nancy White (\"Harper's Bazaar\" 1958–1971). Coolhunters operate mostly in the world of street fashion and design, but their work also blurs into that of futurists such as Faith Popcorn.\n\nA coolhunting firm is a marketing agency whose exclusive purpose is to conduct research of the youth demographic. They then compile their data and produce reports detailing emerging and declining trends in youth culture as well as predictions for future trends. These reports are then sold to various companies whose products target the youth demographic. They also offer consulting services. Coolhunting firms often provide services for some of the largest corporations in the world.\n\nRather than outsourcing their market research, some companies opt for in-house youth culture marketing divisions. These divisions act in much the same way as a coolhunting firm but the reports and data collected remain within the company and are used solely to promote its products. A company will often prefer this form of coolhunting as a way to gain an advantage in the valuable youth market since the research conducted by coolhunting firms is available to anyone willing to pay for it. Viacom's MTV television network employs in-house coolhunting.\n\nCoolhunting is more than simple market research because of the nature of the subjects. The teen and preteen market is often referred to as a \"stubborn\" demographic in that they do not respond as well to blatant advertising and marketing campaigns targeted at them. Coolhunters therefore must be more stealthy in their methods of gathering information and data.\n\nFocus groups, though quite obvious in their attempts at gathering information, are very popular among coolhunters as they provide direct insight into the thoughts and feelings of their target demographic. Coolhunters will typically gather a group of randomly selected individuals from their target demographic. While one or more market researchers interact with the group, they are often being monitored and recorded by a non-visible group, because not only do coolhunters want to \"hear\" what their subjects have to say, they also want to \"observe\" their simple mannerisms.\n\nDepending on the nature of the study, the methods of the information-gathering during a focus group interview may be extremely broad, with questions relating to lifestyle and youth culture, or more specific, like comparing certain brands and determining which brands the group is most responsive to.\n\nParticipants in focus groups are usually rewarded for their participation, whether it be a cash amount, free products, or other rewards.\n\nCoolhunters will often seek out individuals from within their target demographic who are regarded as leaders or trendsetters. They will then hire these individuals to be \"Cool Narcs\", who gather information secretly among their peers and report their findings back to their employers. This is a popular method of coolhunting as it provides insight into their target demographic within their natural environment.\n\nThere are a wide variety of methods for conducting market research online. Popular examples are online surveys where upon completion, the participant will usually receive a prize or monetary compensation. Other times coolhunters will enter chatrooms and webgroups posing as an individual within the target demographic and gather information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4401438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4401438", "title": "Cort Theatre", "text": "Cort Theatre\n\nThe Cort Theatre is a Broadway theatre located at 138 West 48th Street in the Theater District of midtown Manhattan in New York City. It is owned by the Shubert Organization, the largest owner of Broadway theatres.\n\nThe Cort Theatre was designated a New York City landmark on November 17, 1987.\n\nJohn Cort (\"ca.\" 1861-1929), founder of the Northwestern Theatrical Association, commissioned architect Thomas W. Lamb to design the theater. Its façade was modeled on the Petit Trianon in Versailles. The resulting 1082-seat Cort Theater is one of the few Lamb theaters still extant and functioning as a legitimate theater. The interior was designed in the style of the era of Louis XVI, with a Pavanozza marble lobby with plasterwork panels. The arch of the proscenium stage consists of perforated plaster treated with art glass, and was designed to be lit during performances. The arch still exists as of 2007, although the lighting feature is no longer in operation.\n\nThe Cort Theatre opened on December 20, 1912 with Laurette Taylor starring in the play \"Peg o' My Heart\", which ran for 603 performances, an auspicious start for the new venue. Numerous famous British actors have appeared at the Cort: Basil Rathbone played Dr. Nicholas Agi in \"The Swan\" in October 1923, and in April 1927 appeared as Vladimir Dubriski in \"Love is Like That\". In October 1924, Henry Daniell appeared as Aubrey Tanqueray in \"The Second Mrs Tanqueray\", was there again in August 1943 in \"Murder Without Crime\", and in January 1946 appeared as Leontes in \"The Winter's Tale\". This was also the theatre where the aspiring actor James Dean made his broadway debut in 1952 with the play \"See The Jaguar\".\n\nThe Shubert Organization purchased the theatre in 1927, two years before John Cort's death. The theatre was used as a television studio for \"The Merv Griffin Show\" from 1969 to 1972.\n\nIn the 1968 version of the comedy film \"The Producers\", directed by Mel Brooks, the Cort Theatre was seen in the movie across the street from the Playhouse Theater (torn down in 1969), whose marquee can be glimpsed momentarily and exterior was used only. However, in the scene where the theater blows up, the marquee of the Cort Theater can be seen.\n\nThe Tony Award-winning revival of \"Fences\", starring Denzel Washington and Viola Davis, achieved the box office record for the Cort Theatre. The production grossed $1,175,626 over eight performances, for the week ending July 11, 2010.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "12863026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12863026", "title": "Dick van Burik", "text": "Dick van Burik\n\nDick van Burik (born 29 November 1973) is a retired Dutch professional footballer who played as a central defender.\n\nBorn in Utrecht, Van Burik played in the Eredivisie with Ajax, NAC and FC Utrecht.\n\nHowever, he would be best known for a 10-year stint with German Bundesliga outfit Hertha BSC, where he would be a defensive mainstay for a side that participated in five UEFA Cup editions and the 1999–2000 UEFA Champions League (as a result of a third league place in 1998–99, with Van Burik subsequently appearing in ten Champions League contests, as Hertha reached the second group stage).\n\nVan Burik was dismissed by Hertha after the club accused him of playing a role in the departure of teammate Jérôme Boateng, who was a client of van Burik's father and football agent Karel. He subsequently retired in June 2007.\n\nHe was assistant manager at SC Heerenveen from February to June 2010. He runs a football agency with his father and a coating company, VB Coatings.\n\n"}
{"id": "3439123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3439123", "title": "Duty of loyalty", "text": "Duty of loyalty\n\nThe duty of loyalty is often called the cardinal principal of fiduciary relationships, but is particularly strict in the law of trusts. In that context, the term refers to a trustee's duty to administer the trust solely in the interest of the beneficiaries, and following the terms of the trust. It generally prohibits a trustee from engaging in transactions that might involve self-dealing or even an appearance of conflict of interest. Furthermore, it requires a fiduciary to deal with transparency regarding material facts known to them in interactions with beneficiaries. \nDuty of loyalty in corporation law to describe a fiduciaries' \"conflicts of interest and requires fiduciaries to put the corporation's interests ahead of their own.\" \"Corporate fiduciaries breach their duty of loyalty when they divert corporate assets, opportunities, or information for personal gain.\"\n\nIt is generally acceptable if a director makes a decision for the corporation that profits both him and the corporation. The duty of loyalty is breached when the director puts his or her interest in front of that of the corporation.\n\n\n\nSection 8.60 of the Model Business Corporation Act states there is a conflict of interest when the director knows that at the time of a commitment that he or a related person is 1) a party to the transaction or 2) has a beneficial financial interest in the transaction that the interest and exercises his influence to the detriment of the corporation.\n\n"}
{"id": "14041658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14041658", "title": "E-Verify", "text": "E-Verify\n\nE-Verify is a United States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) website that allows businesses to determine the eligibility of their employees, both U.S. or foreign citizens, to work in the United States.\n\nE-Verify was originally established in 1996 as the Basic Pilot Program to prevent illegal immigrants and other people who have violated immigration laws from obtaining employment illegally in the United States. In August 2007, DHS started by requiring all federal contractors and vendors to use E-Verify. The Internet-based program is free and maintained by the United States government. Use of E-Verify at the state level varies; some states have mandated use of E-Verify or similar programs, while others have discouraged the program.\n\nE-Verify compares information from an employee's Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 to data from U.S. government records. If the information matches, that employee is eligible to work in the United States. If there is a mismatch, E-Verify alerts the employer and the employee is allowed to work while he or she resolves the problem; they must contact the appropriate agency to resolve the mismatch within eight federal government work days from the referral date. The program is operated by the DHS in partnership with the Social Security Administration. According to the DHS website, more than 600,000 employers used E-Verify as of 2016.\n\nResearch shows that E-Verify harms the labor market outcomes of undocumented immigrants and improves the labor market outcomes of Mexican legal immigrants and U.S.-born Hispanics, but has no impact on labor market outcomes for non-Hispanic white Americans. A 2016 study suggests that E-Verify reduces the number of undocumented immigrants in states that have mandated use of E-Verify for all employers, and further notes that the program may deter illegal immigration to the US in general.\n\nThe program was originally established in 1997 as the Basic Pilot Program along with two other programs created to prevent illegal immigrants from getting jobs. The others were discontinued. In the two years since ICE finalized the regulations for electronically storing and/or generating I-9 records there has also been a steady increase in the number of administrative I-9 audits – where employers are asked to deliver their I-9 records to ICE within 72 hours for inspection. The USCIS Verification Division reported that over 16,000 E-Verify compliance letters were issued in Fiscal Year 2010. Another 13,000 letters and over 26,000 emails were sent to employers in Fiscal Year 2011. Additionally, another 23,000 e-mails were sent in the first half of Fiscal Year 2012, alone.\n\nAll employers, by law, must complete Form I-9. E-Verify is closely linked to Form I-9, but participation in E-Verify is voluntary for most employers. After an employee is hired to work for pay, the employee and employer complete Form I-9. After an employee begins work for pay, the employer enters the information from Form I-9 into E-Verify. E-Verify then compares that information against millions of government records and returns a result.\n\nOn 31 August 2007, the program began to include facial image data to help enhance searches. The 14 million images kept by federal immigration authorities are being used in the program, and the government is in talks with some states to cross reference with state drivers license records.\n\nDuring the United States federal government shutdown of 2013, E-Verify was anticipated to \"be inaccessible for the duration of the shutdown.\" Also, \"the 'three-day rule' for processing employment eligibility queries in E-Verify is indefinitely suspended pending a resolution of 2013 funding impasse.\"\n\nA 2015 study found that E-Verify reduced the average earnings of undocumented immigrants, improved labor market outcomes for male Mexican immigrants and U.S.-born Hispanic men, and had no impact on U.S.-born non-Hispanic whites. A 2016 study found that E-Verify \"reduces the number of less-educated prime-age immigrants from Mexico and Central America—immigrants who are likely to be unauthorized—living in a state. We find evidence that some new migrants are diverted to other states, but also suggestive evidence that some already-present migrants leave the country entirely.\"\n\nAs of September 2007, most of the federal government did not use the system when hiring employees, but an Office of Management and Budget directive mandates that all federal government agencies sign up to use E-Verify by 1 October 2007.\n\nSocial Security Administration failed to perform required verifications of the Social Security numbers of 19 percent of its own new hires during an 18-month period, according to a January 2010 report from the agency’s inspector general.\n\nAs of 8 September 2009, employers with federal contracts or subcontracts that contain the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) E-Verify clause are required to use E-Verify to determine the employment eligibility of 1) Employees performing direct, substantial work under those federal contracts and 2) New hires organization-wide, regardless of whether they are working on a federal contract. A federal contractor or subcontractor who has a contract with the FAR E-Verify clause also has the option to verify the company's entire workforce.\n\nIn April 2008, U.S. government extended the duration of post-completion work authorization (the \"Optional Practical Training\" (OPT))\nfrom 12 months to an additional 24 months, for a total of 36 months of work authorization between the various OPT authorizations granted by USCIS, for certain qualifying students with completed U.S. degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). In all circumstances, students are only eligible for this extension if their employer participates in the E-Verify program. If an employer does not participate in E-Verify, students working for those employers are only given 12 months of OPT, and can not get the 24-month extension even if they would otherwise qualify for the extension.\n\nThere are a number of state laws requiring or limiting the use of E-Verify for employers. According to a 2012 survey by the Center for Immigration Studies, 16 states require use of E-Verify in some form. The survey found that six states have laws requiring all or nearly all businesses to use E-Verify to determine employment eligibility: Arizona, Mississippi, South Carolina, Alabama, Georgia, and North Carolina. Five states require use of E-Verify by public employers and all or most public contractors: Indiana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Virginia, and Missouri. Three states require only public contractors to use E-Verify: Louisiana, Minnesota, and Pennsylvania. Idaho only requires public employers to use E-Verify, while Florida only requires it for agencies under direction of the governor. Colorado and Utah encourage use of E-Verify, but allow for alternative means of employment verification. An E-Verify-only mandate in Utah is contingent on the state's effort to create a state-level guestworker program. The survey also found that some states have moved in the opposite direction, limiting or discouraging use of E-Verify: California, Rhode Island, and Illinois.\n\nIn 2011, the Supreme Court of the U.S. rejected a suit arguing that Arizona's state law, which can cause employers found failing to use E-Verify to lose their state business licenses, was pre-empted by federal law. The ruling effectively confirmed that states may mandate the use of E-Verify. \n\nThe state of Alabama passed a law mandating employers to use E-Verify on new hires. The \"Beason-Hammon Alabama Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act\" (H.B. 56) was signed into law on 9 June 2011. The act makes it illegal for any business entity, employer, or public employer to \"knowingly employ, hire for employment, or continue to employ\" an illegal immigrant to perform work within the state. Effective 1 April 2012, every employer in Alabama must enroll in E-Verify and use the program to check employment authorization. The act creates an incentive for using E-Verify as businesses and subcontractors that enroll in E-Verify are immune from liability for employing an illegal immigrant. The act requires the Alabama Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to establish and maintain an E-Verify employer service for any employer in the state with 25 or fewer employees that wants assistance. The Alabama DHS will enroll a participating business in E-Verify on its behalf at no cost. This law is applied to businesses both inside and outside Alabama that do business with the state.\n\nThe state of Arizona requires employers to participate in E-Verify: the \"Legal Arizona Workers Act\" has survived a number of constitutional challenges, up to and including the US Supreme Court and is currently in effect. The Legal Arizona Workers Act requires all Arizona employers to use E-Verify with all newly hired employees, effective 1 January 2008. As of December 2008, 5.6 percent of Arizona businesses had signed up with E-Verify.\n\nAs amended, the law prohibits employers from intentionally and/or knowingly hiring illegal immigrants (or a person who employs or contracts with an illegal immigrant) and requires all employers to use E-Verify during the employment process and keep a record of the verification for the duration of the employee's employment or at least three years, whichever is longer. Additional legislation prohibits the state government from entering into a contract with any contractor or subcontractor that fails to use E-Verify. According to USCIS, there are 39,191 employers in Arizona using E-Verify at 84,703 hiring sites.\n\nIn 2011, California passed an act to prohibit municipalities from mandating use of E-Verify. At least 20 municipalities had required use of E-Verify, for all businesses and/or companies doing business with the local government, including Mission Viejo (2007), Temecula (ordinance 5.06.030) (2010), Murrieta (ordinance Chapter 5.04) (2010), Riverside, Santa Maria (only for city employees), Lake Elsinore (Ordinance No. 1279) (2010), Wildomar (only for contractors) (2010), Lancaster (Ordinance No. 934), Palmdale, San Clemente, Escondido, Menifee, Hemet, San Juan Capistrano, Hesperia, Norco, San Bernardino County, Rancho Santa Margarita, and Simi Valley.\n\nCities considering E-Verify ordinances for businesses for 2011 are Costa Mesa, San Luis Obispo, Santa Maria (for all businesses) Santa Barbara, and San Jose. However, Costa Mesa is the only city that has adapted the same state law as Arizona's SB-1070, allowing the City to arrest those without proper identification of resident status under suspicion of being unlawfully present in the United States.\n\nColorado's E-Verify law became effective on 7 August 2006, and was amended on 13 May 2008, (H.B. 06-1343, amended by H.B. 07-1073 and S.B. 08-193). The amendment created the \"Department Program\" and is offered as an alternative to E-Verify, meaning that E-Verify is not mandated in Colorado. Public contractors must participate in either E-Verify or the Department Program. The state's Department of Labor and Employment is tasked with investigating complaints and can conduct on-site inspections and random audits of state agencies. It has the authority to request and review citizenship documentation of persons performing work on public contracts. Under the \"Department Program\" public contractors must consent to random audits to assess compliance with the law.\n\nOn 4 January 2011, Gov. Rick Scott signed an executive order requiring agencies under his direction to use E-Verify. It was superseded on 27 May 2011, with a similar E-Verify order that brought the policy more in line with standard E-Verify practices by requiring verification of new employees rather than both new and existing employees. Specifically, all agencies under the direction of the governor have been directed to verify the employment eligibility of all new employees through E-Verify. Agencies not under the direction of the governor are \"encouraged\" to follow the same guidelines. All agencies under the direction of the governor must expressly require contractors to use E-Verify for all new employees hired by the contractor during the contract term as a condition of all contracts for the provision of goods and services to the state in excess of nominal value. Additionally, subcontractors performing work pursuant to the contract must use E-Verify. Agencies not under the direction of the governor are encouraged to follow these guidelines as well.\n\nFlorida was the second State to join the E-verify RIDE program, which allows employers to view State ID and driver's license photos during the verification process.\n\nGeorgia requires both public and private employers to use E-Verify during the hiring process. In 2006 the state passed the \"Georgia Security and Immigration Compliance Act\" (S.B. 529), which applied to public employers, contractors, and subcontractors and was followed by a number of amendments. In 2011, the state passed the \"Illegal Immigration Reform and Enforcement Act of 2011\" (H.B. 87), which extends required use of E-Verify to private employers.\n\nAs of 1 July 2007, all public employers in Georgia were required to use E-Verify for all new employees. With additional amendments, the law now requires all public employees to permanently post the employer's federally issued user identification number and date of authorization on the employer's website. If the public employer does not have a website, then the local government is directed to submit the relevant information to the Carl Vinson Institute of Government of the University of Georgia to be posted by the institute on the website created for local government audit and budget reporting.\n\nAn official at the state's Department of Labor told the Center for Immigration Studies that funding has not been made available for the auditing process rendering the law largely ineffective.\n\nOn 29 May 2009, Gov. Butch Otter signed Executive Order 2009-10, mandating, among other things, that state agencies verify that new employees are eligible for employment under federal and state law. While the order does not specifically reference E-Verify, subsequent internal guidelines resulted in all state agencies using E-Verify to meet the order's requirements. The order came into effect on 1 July 2009.\n\nPublic contractors and subcontractors are required to declare to the contracting state agency that they have \"substantiated that all employees providing services or involved in any way on projects funded directly by or assisted in whole or part by state funds or federal stimulus dollars\" are legally authorized to work in the United States. According to an official at the state's Department of Human Resources, public contractors are encouraged, but not required to use E-Verify to meet this requirement.\n\nOn 14 July 2013, Idaho joined the E-verify RIDE program, which allows employers to view State ID and driver's license photos during the verification process.\n\nSection 12(a) of the Illinois Right to Privacy in the Workplace Act prohibited Illinois employers from using E-verify to verify the work authorization of their employees. The United States Department of Homeland Security sued to prevent the law from taking effect as scheduled on 1 January 2008. On 12 March 2009, agreeing with the federal government, the U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois ruled that Illinois’ law is invalid under the Supremacy Clause to the U.S. Constitution because it conflicts with the federal Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act (IIRIRA). The case was United States v. Illinois, (No. 07-3261, C.D. Ill., 2009).\n\nAs a rule, E-Verify is not required in Illinois. In fact, Illinois is the only state that has tried to block the use of E-Verify by private employers. Concerned about inaccuracies in the E-Verify data kept by the federal government as well as ongoing privacy implications for workers, Illinois enacted a law in 2007 that would have prohibited private employers from using E-Verify until the federal government made specific improvements to the system. However, DHS challenged the Illinois law in federal court and eventually won. Thus, the provision of the Illinois law prohibiting employers from using E-Verify was struck down, but the rest of the statute survived. An amended version of the law was enacted in August 2009, and it is that version which went into effect on 1 January 2010.\n\nUnder the new law, which amends the Illinois Right to Privacy in the Workplace Act, Illinois employers are required to sign a sworn attestation either upon initial enrollment in E-Verify, or by 31 January 2010 if they are already enrolled in the program. The attestation form affirms that the employer has received the requisite E-Verify training materials from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (\"DHS\"), and that all employees with access to the company’s E-Verify account have completed mandatory online E-Verify tutorials. It further states that the employer has posted the required legal notices regarding its enrollment in E-Verify and certain non-discrimination procedures. The employer must retain the signed original attestation and proof of its employees’ E-Verify training.\n\nOn 1 July 2011, Indiana enacted S.B. 590. Among other things, the law requires state agencies and political subdivisions to use E-Verify to determine work authorization status of all employees hired after 30 June 2011. The requirement to use E-Verify also applies to public contractors. The law does not contain any enforcement provisions or any auditing process to determine employer compliance.\n\nOn 15 August 2011, two pieces of E-Verify legislation were approved in Louisiana. The first bill, H.B. 342, requires all state and local contractors who seek to do business with Louisiana to use E-Verify. The second bill, H.B. 646, encourages all private businesses to verify the legal status of their new hires by providing employers a safe harbor against sanctions if they use E-Verify or another method for determining worker eligibility.\n\nOn 7 January 2008, then-Governor Tim Pawlenty signed Executive Order 08-01, requiring use of E-Verify for the state's executive branch employees and for some public contracts. Gov. Mark Dayton allowed the order to lapse in April 2011. A new E-Verify provision requires use of E-Verify only for some public contracts. It requires state contracts for services in excess of $50,000 to require certification from vendors and subcontractors that they have implemented or are in the process of implementing the E-Verify program for all newly hired employees who will perform work under the contract. It exempts contracts entered into by the State Board of Investment.\n\nThe Mississippi Employment Protection Act requires all Mississippi employers to use E-Verify with new hires. Mississippi employers with 250 or more employees must comply with the law as of 1 July 2008. The law goes into effect for employers with 100 to 249 employees as of 1 July 2009. Employers with 30 to 99 employees must comply by 1 July 2010. The law is effective for employers with fewer than 30 employees on 1 July 2011. As of June 2011, a total of 4,336 employers representing more than 9,000 worksites in Mississippi were using E-Verify.\n\nEnforcement of the law, and its effectiveness, remains a significant problem. An official at the Mississippi Attorney General's office explained to the Center for Immigration Studies that his office is tasked with investigating complaints that the public may file about potential violations of the law. However, when asked how often such complaints are filed, he responded, \"Rarely.\" This is consistent with information from a two-day immigration hearing held at the state capital in 2010. Then, a different spokesperson for the Attorney General's office explained that the office had received no formal complaints. A state representative told the Center for Immigration Studies that because the state law grants authority over E-Verify regulation to multiple state agencies, no agency has taken the lead and enforcement has been nominal.\n\nAs of August 2012 Mississippi was the first state to use USCIS's RIDE program as part of its E-Verify efforts (Florida and Idaho have also since joined). On 13 June 2011, in an effort to improve E-Verify's accuracy in Mississippi, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) launched the \"Records and Information from DMVs for E-Verify\" (RIDE) program in the state. The RIDE program compares driver's licenses or other government-issued ID cards against data held by the state's motor vehicle agency.\n\nOn 7 July 2008, Missouri's E-Verify bill (H.R. 1549) was signed into law. It became effective on 1 January 2009. The law prohibits businesses from knowingly employing, hiring, or continuing to employ an illegal immigrant to perform work within the state of Missouri. The E-Verify portion of the law does not apply to all businesses, but those businesses that do use E-Verify are provided an affirmative defense that the business has not violated the provisions of the law that prohibit the employment of illegal immigrant. All public employers are required to \"actively participate\" in E-Verify.\n\nOn 8 April 2009, Nebraska's L.B. 403 was signed into law. The law requires use of E-Verify by state agencies (and political subdivisions) and by public contractors starting 1 October 2009. Every contract between a public employer and public contractor must contain a provision requiring the public contractor to use E-Verify for new employees physically performing services within Nebraska. The requirement does not apply to public contracts made prior to the operative date of this act. According to state surveys, use of E-Verify appears to be low.\n\nThe North Carolina governor signed H.B. 36 into law on 23 June 2011. All counties and municipalities were required to begin using E-Verify by 1 October 2011. The law also requires private businesses to use E-Verify for new employees, but exempts any \"seasonal temporary employee who is employed for 90 or fewer days during a 12-consecutive-month period\". Employers with 500 or more employees must be using E-Verify by 1 October 2012; employers with 100 to 499 employees must be using E-Verify by 1 January 2013; and employers with 25 to 99 employees must be using E-Verify by 1 July 2013. The law does not include a random audit process for determining employer compliance.\n\nThe \"Oklahoma Taxpayer and Citizen Protection Act of 2007\" (H.B. 1804) was signed into law on 9 May 2007. Among other things, the law requires public contractors and subcontractors to use E-Verify (or a third-party program with an equal or higher degree of reliability, should one appear). After 1 July 2008, public employers were prohibited from entering into contracts for the physical performance of services within Oklahoma unless the contractor (and any subcontractor) uses E-Verify to verify the work authorization of all new employees. If an independent contractor, contracting for the physical performance of services in Oklahoma, fails to provide to the contracting entity documentation to verify the independent contractor's employment authorization, the contracting entity is required to withhold state income tax at the top marginal income tax rate as provided under state law.\n\nOn 5 July 2012, Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corbett signed \"Public Works Employment Verification Act\" (S.B. 637). It requires some public works contractors and subcontractors to use E-Verify to determine employment eligibility of all new hires. In order to ensure compliance, employers are subject to complaint-based and random audits. The act takes effect 1 January 2013. Under the act, \"public work\" means \"construction, reconstruction, demolition, alteration, and/or repair work other than maintenance work, done under contract and paid for in whole or in part out of the funds of a public body\" where the estimated cost of the total project is in excess of $25,000 but does not include work performed under a \"rehabilitation or manpower training program.\"\n\nThe legislation was approved by both houses of the state legislature and aims to ensure that all construction jobs funded by taxpayers employ only documented workers by checking employees’ information against government records.\n\nIn March 2008, Governor Carcieri issued an executive order requiring executive agencies to use E-Verify; and for all persons and businesses, including grantees, contractors and their subcontractors and vendors to use E-Verify.\n\nOn 5 January 2011, less than 24 hours after his swearing-in, Gov. Lincoln Chafee rescinded Executive Order 08-01, calling it \"an agent of divisiveness, incivility, and distrust among the state's citizens.\" In defending his move, Gov. Chafee incorrectly claimed on at least two occasions that Rhode Island was one of only six states with an E-Verify mandate.\n\nThe \"South Carolina Illegal Immigration Reform Act\" (H. 4400) was signed into law on 4 June 2008, and amended on 27 June 2011, (S. 20). The law requires all employers to use E-Verify. The original version of the law gave employers the option of confirming the eligibility of new employees through either E-Verify or by checking the validity of driver's licenses and other identification cards. The 2011 amendment made E-Verify the exclusive method for confirming employment eligibility. South Carolina is said to have one of the nation's most effective E-Verify laws in that the state uses an audit process to ensure businesses are in compliance with the law.\n\nSouth Carolina conducted approximately 6,000 audits of businesses under the 2008 version of the law. During the first year — 1 July 2009, through 30 June 2010, when the law applied to businesses with 100 or more employees (a total of 2,300 employers) — South Carolina conducted approximately 1,900 audits. The second year, when the law applied to every employer, the state conducted audits of approximately 4,200 businesses.\n\nEvery public employer must register and participate in \"federal work authorization program to verify the employment authorization of all new employees.\" See SC Code Section 8-14-20(A). Public employer must also require public contractors and subcontractors to agree to use e-verify or \"to employ only workers who\" possess or qualify to obtain a SC drivers license or identification card. See SC Code Section 8-14-20(B). The latter requirement applies as follows: \"(1) on and after 1 January 2009, with respect to contractors, subcontractors, or sub-subcontractors of five hundred or more employees; (2) on and after 1 July 2009, with respect to contractors, subcontractors, or sub-subcontractors of one hundred or more employees but less than five hundred employees; and (3) on and after 1 January 2010, with respect to all other contractors, subcontractors, or sub-subcontractors.\" See SC Code Section 8-14-20(D).\n\nSC Code Section 41-8-20 requires that \"(A) All private employers in South Carolina shall be imputed a South Carolina employment license, which permits a private employer to employ a person in this State. A private employer may not employ a person unless the private employer's South Carolina employment license and any other applicable licenses as defined in Section 41-8-10 are in effect and are not suspended or revoked. A private employer's employment license shall remain in effect provided the private employer complies with the provisions of this chapter.\n(B) All private employers who are required by federal law to complete and maintain federal employment eligibility verification forms or documents must register and participate in the E-Verify federal work authorization program, or its successor, to verify the work authorization of every new employee within three business days after employing a new employee. A private employer who does not comply with the requirements of this subsection violates the private employer's licenses.\n(C) The South Carolina Department of Employment and Workforce shall provide private employers\nwith technical advice and electronic access to the E-Verify federal work authorization program's website\nfor the sole purpose of registering and participating in the program.\n(D) Private employers shall employ provisionally a new employee until the new employee's work\nauthorization has been verified pursuant to this section. A private employer shall submit a new\nemployee's name and information for verification even if the new employee's employment is terminated\nless than three business days after becoming employed. If a new employee's work authorization is not\nverified by the federal work authorization program, a private employer must not employ, continue to\nemploy, or reemploy the new employee.\n(E) To assist private employers in understanding the requirements of this chapter, the director shall\nsend written notice of the requirements of this section to all South Carolina employers, and shall publish\nthe information contained in the notice on its website. Nothing in this section shall create a legal\nrequirement that any private employer receive actual notice of the requirements of this chapter through\nwritten notice from the director, nor create any legal defense for failure to receive notice.\n(F) If a private employer is a contractor, the private employer shall maintain the contact phone numbers\nof all subcontractors and sub-subcontractors performing services for the private employer. The private\nemployer shall provide the contact phone numbers or a contact phone number, as applicable, to the\ndirector pursuant to an audit or investigation within seventy-two hours of the director's request.\nHISTORY: 2008 Act No. 280, Section 19, eff June 4, 2008; 2011 Act No. 69, Section 9, eff January 1,\n2012.\"\n\nThe Tennessee Lawful Employment Act (HB 1378) was signed into law by Governor Bill Haslam in June 2011. Effective January 1, 2017, private employers with 50 or more employees under the same FEIN are required to use the federal E-Verify employment verification process. This applies to employees working in or outside the state of Tennessee. Private employers with fewer than 50 employees may choose to use E-Verify for newly hired employees or request and maintain documents under the TLEA’s list of authorized identity and employment eligibility documents. The TLEA covers “non-employees” as well, while not employed directly, are paid directly by the employer for labor or services. Companies in Tennessee are required to request and maintain copies of certain identity and work authorization documents for non-employees, unless an exception applies (i.e. workers are employed by a separate company). \n\nOn December 3, 2014, Governor Rick Perry issued Executive Order RP 80, relating to state agencies using the U.S. Department of Homeland Security's E-Verify System. The order requires all agencies under the direction of the governor to verify the employment eligibility of all current and prospective agency employees through the E-Verify system. It also requires all agencies under the direction of the governor to include, as a condition of all state contracts for services, a requirement that contractors utilize the E-Verify system to determine the eligibility of all persons employed during the contract term to perform duties within Texas and all persons (including subcontractors) assigned by the contractor to perform work pursuant to the contract.\n\nThe \"Private Employer Verification Act\" (S.B. 251) was signed into law on 31 March 2010. It requires all private employers who employ more than 15 or more employees as of 1 July 2010, to use a \"status verification system\" to verify the employment eligibility of new employees, though it does not mandate use of E-Verify. As an alternative to E-Verify, businesses can use any other federal program the state deems equivalent to E-Verify, including \"the Social Security Number Verification Service or similar online verification process implemented by the United States Social Security Administration.\" (Note: However, the E-Verify is considered to be more reliable than the mere verification through a Social Security Administration database that the social security number, name of employee, and date of birth all match.) The law exempts employers of aliens on H-2A (temporary agricultural) and H-2B (temporary, non-agricultural) visas. An official at the Social Security Administration told the Center for Immigration Studies that the program is not sufficient for determining immigration status.\n\nOn 11 April 2010, Virginia's H.B. 737 was signed into law. In early 2011, Gov. Robert McDonnell announced that he would push up the deadline by 18 months to 1 June 2011.\nThe state's E-Verify policy requires both state agencies and businesses contracting with Virginia to use E-Verify, the result of two pieces of legislation. On 25 March 2011, an E-Verify bill aimed at public contractors was signed into law: H.B. 1859. Effective 1 December 2013, employers with more than an average of 50 employees for the previous 12 months entering into a work or service contract in excess of $50,000 with any state agency must register and participate in E-Verify. Failure to comply with the law results in the employer being debarred from contracting with any state agency for a period up to one year. Such debarment ends upon the employer's registration and participation in E-Verify.\n\nAs of 2012, \"the overall accuracy of E-Verify for employment-authorized workers, as measured by the FNC (Final Nonconfirmations) accuracy rate, was approximately 94 percent.\". However, the margin of error, currently around 8%, is decreasing, as many of the errors came from changing last names after marriage or not informing the government of changes in citizenship status. As of 2018, 98.88% of E-Verify applicants were approved to work.\n\nChris Calabrese of the American Civil Liberties Union opposes E-Verify, citing concerns that it could expand into an onerous national ID system: \"Employers are not police officers, except in this one context where we suddenly want them to be law enforcement agents who are going to police their workforce.\"\n\nThe American Farm Bureau Federation opposes E-Verify and stated in July 2011 that it \"could have a significant, negative impact on US farm production, threatening the livelihoods of many farmers and ranchers in labor intensive agriculture.\"\n\nArizona, Maryland and Wyoming have joined the federal government's E-Verify program for checking records from motor vehicle departments, a system designed to electronically verify an employee’s driver’s license or ID card used to prove work eligibility. RIDE is an ongoing initiative that links the E-Verify employment eligibility verification system with participating employers that use E-Verify and state departments of motor vehicles (DMVs) to help to reduce document and employment eligibility verification fraud in E-Verify.\nRIDE allows employers using E-Verify to validate the authenticity of driver’s licenses and state identification cards issued by state DMVs that employees present as identity documents for the Form I-9.The other states in the RIDE program are Florida, Idaho, Iowa, Mississippi, Nebraska, North Dakota, and Wisconsin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2769157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2769157", "title": "Edith Kingdon Gould", "text": "Edith Kingdon Gould\n\nEdith Kingdon Gould Martin (August 20, 1920 – August 17, 2004) was an American socialite, linguist, actress, and poet.\n\nShe was the daughter of financier Kingdon Gould, Sr., granddaughter of financier George Jay Gould I, and great-granddaughter of Jay Gould the robber baron. She appeared as an actress in the 1946 Broadway production of Agatha Christie's play \"Hidden Horizon\".\n\nTime writes on December 24, 1934:\n\nOut just in time to make a fine Christmas present for her schoolmates at Miss Hewitt's Classes was a thin, blue & white book of Poems by Edith Kingdon Gould, 14, great-granddaughter of Jay Gould. On the day it was published Manhattan newshawks called at the Goulds' Manhattan penthouse, found the butler and Miss Edith, a well-poised girl with bangs and saucer eyes, at home. Said Poet Gould. \"I suppose I must get used to this if I am going to be any good with my verse.\" Thereupon she rattled solemnly: \"I have been writing poetry since I was 6. It's funny that I should have loved poetry, isn't it? Most of the girls I know really loathe it. ... I like horseback riding, swimming, and tennis, but I am poor at tennis. ... I like boys all right, but I don't like them my own age. They seem so stupid. ... I think it's very silly of Roosevelt to tax the rich and give it to the unemployed.\" Miss Gould posed for newscameramen, then ushered her callers to the elevator. \"You know,\" said she \"I will get 10 cents for every copy that's sold. Best of her 37 verses. Author Gould likes \"When Tomorrow,\" written on her 14th birthday last August:\nIn October 1942 she joined the WAVES as an apprentice seaman and trained in Madison, Wisconsin. She graduated as an Ensign from the Naval Reserve Midshipmen's School in Northampton, Massachusetts in April 1944. Later she was promoted to a Lieutenant. She spoke five languages.\n\nShe married Isaiah Guyman \"Guy\" Martin, Jr. (1911-2014) when he was age 35. He was a Navy lieutenant and a lawyer in Judge Advocate General's Corps. They married in Manhattan in October 1946. They had four children: Isaiah Guyman Martin III, Jason Gould Martin, Christopher Kingdon Martin, and Edith Maria Theodosia Burr Martin.\n\nShe died on August 17, 2004 in the Catskills.\n"}
{"id": "12335326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12335326", "title": "Essie Sakhai", "text": "Essie Sakhai\n\nEssie Sakhai (born in the city of Tehran in Iran and educated in Great Britain) is a rug dealer and expert on the ancient Iranian art form of the Persian Carpet and Oriental rugs. Born to a family with a long history of dealing in Persian Carpets, he gained much of his knowledge from his father Benayahoo Sakhai.\n\nEssie spends most of his time at his Gallery in London’s Mayfair, carrying on the family tradition started in 1766.\n\nEssie advises museums, and private collectors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50259195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50259195", "title": "Ethical Toy Program", "text": "Ethical Toy Program\n\nThe ICTI Ethical Toy Program (IETP) is an independent, not-for-profit organisation established in 2004 to safeguard and improve ethical and sustainability standards in the global toy industry supply chain.\n\nThe ICTI Ethical Toy Program oversees the Ethical Toy Program, the ethical manufacturing program for the toy industry. The Ethical Toy Program is the most widespread labor and social standard in the toy industry. The program is based on the ICTI Code of Business Practices. It is estimated that 70% of global toy sales are covered by the Ethical Toy Program.\n\nWorking conditions in Asian toy factories in the 1990s were under intense scrutiny, most notably following the Kader Toy Factory Fire in Bangkok (Thailand), considered the worst industrial factory fire in history, and a toy factory fire in Shenzhen (China) in 1993 which together caused more than 250 deaths. As a reaction to the tragedy, the Hong Kong Toy Coalition was established and published the \"Charter on the Safe Production of Toys\" in the mid 1990s. In this charter, the Hong Kong Toy Coalition demanded the improvement of labor, social, and safety standards in Chinese toy factories.\n\nFollowing the production of the charter, larger toy brands and retailers started to create their own Codes of Conduct. Hasbro established its “Global Business Ethics Principles” in 1993, Zapf Creation a code of conduct in 1995, The Walt Disney Corporation its “International Labor Standards” in 1996, Mattel its “Global Manufacturing Principles” 1997, and LEGO created a code of conduct in 1997. It is estimated that there were up to 70 different standards which made it difficult for toy factories to comply with varying standards and created significant amounts of duplication of auditing in factories. Therefore, an industry wide ethical manufacturing standard was called for in the toy industry.\n\nThe International Council of Toy Industries (ICTI) created the Code of Business Practices in 1995. In 2002 at the annual general meeting of ICTI, the member toy industry associations unanimously agreed to launch the ICTI CARE Process, a worldwide auditing process to implement the ICTI Code of Business Practices, drive convergence, and reduce duplication of social auditing in the global toy industry supply chain.\n\nIn 2004, the ICTI CARE Foundation was created as a non-profit organisation working completely independently of ICTI to oversee the ICTI CARE Process.\n\nIn 2018, the organization became the ICTI Ethical Toy Program. Along with a new name, the next generation of the Ethical Toy Program was unveiled with an updated mission and strategy for the organization, a new membership model and a brand-new look and feel to deliver the changes.\n\nEthical Toy Program is the ethical manufacturing program specifically designed for the toy industry based on the ICTI Code of Business Practices.\n\nThe ICTI Code of Business Practices, upon which the Ethical Toy Program is based, covers nine core principals:\n\nWhen a factory is awarded a Seal of Compliance by the Ethical Toy Program this denotes their adherence to the Ethical Toy Program. The Ethical Toy Program offers Seals of Compliance from Class A to C depending on the maximum number of hours worked.\n\n"}
{"id": "5857676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5857676", "title": "FIN 46", "text": "FIN 46\n\nFIN 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, was an interpretation of United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles published by the US Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) that made it more difficult to remove assets and liabilities from a company's balance sheet if the company retained an economic exposure to the assets and liabilities. One of the main reasons FIN 46 was issued as an interpretation instead of an accounting standard was to issue the standard in a relatively short period of time in response to the Enron scandal. \n\nFIN 46 was an interpretation of ARB 51, an accounting principle issued in August 1959 defining the situations where Consolidated Financial Statements must be prepared. Whenever a company has a controlling financial interest in another entity it must consolidate the assets and liabilities of the other entity - that is, it must add the assets and liabilities of the other entity to its own, canceling any intercompany interests. The traditional ARB 51 approach assumed that equity - usually common stock - would receive the residual economic interest generated by a business, which is why ARB 51 focuses on equity-based majority voting interests. The traditional criterion for a controlling financial interest under ARB 51 is a majority voting interest. In the 1980s and 1990s it became common for companies to control assets in certain businesses without maintaining a majority voting interest in those businesses. This was more often done with securitizations rather than traditional limited liability corporations, because the securitization's common stock or other voting interests could be paid defined, limited amounts and all other cash flows could be directed to other securityholders. Until FIN 46 was implemented, this enabled companies to avoid consolidation, which permitted them to keep the liabilities and losses of their controlled special purpose entities off of their financial statements. In such cases, consolidation based on equity did not serve the purpose of effective reporting because it does not reflect the true nature of relationships among entities.\n\nFIN 46 closed this loophole by defining tests to identify a controlling financial interest beyond formal equity ownership and voting rights. This is important in cases where the legal equity is insignificant or at least somewhat irrelevant from the viewpoint of risk/rewards. The new rules emphasize the substance of relationships among entities, rather than emphasizing the form of relationships among entities (such as a majority voting interest), which can be more easily manipulated. \n\nUnder FIN 46, the first step is to determine if a company has a variable interest in another entity. In general terms, a variable interest is an interest in an entity that increases and decreases in value (i.e., is variable) according to increases and decreases in the expected cash flows from the entity's assets and liabilities. Once a variable interest is established, the second step is to determine who is the primary beneficiary of the variable interest entity (or \"VIE\"). The primary beneficiary is the entity, if any, that holds the majority of the risks and rewards associated with the VIE. Once a primary beneficiary is identified, it is deemed to have a controlling financial interest in the VIE and must consolidate the VIE onto its financial statements, whether or not it holds a majority voting interest.\n\nWhen FASB first began working on FIN 46, it focused on special purpose entities such as the entities Enron used. FASB then recognized that the principles of FIN 46 should apply to all entities where a variable interest exists, so the final interpretation was broader than the original objective. Also, in a securitization, if a party selling assets to a VIE maintains an ongoing involvement with those assets (for example as a swap counterparty to the VIE with respect to asset cashflows) then Financial Accounting Standard 140 (FAS 140), which deals with de-recognition of assets upon transfer to a special purpose entity, will also be relevant.\n\nFIN 46 was revised by FIN 46R in December 2003 which, among other things, defined in more detail the calculation of an entity’s economic risks and rewards, which party must consolidate a variable interest entity, and when a consolidation or deconsolidation should be reconsidered. FIN 46R was then replaced by a new accounting standard, FASB Statement 167, in June 2009 in the aftermath of the Financial crisis of 2007-08.\n\n"}
{"id": "4478305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4478305", "title": "Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board", "text": "Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board\n\nThe Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) is a United States federal advisory committee whose mission is to improve federal financial reporting through issuing federal financial accounting standards and providing guidance after considering the needs of external and internal users of federal financial information. FASAB is designated as the body that sets U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the United States Government and its component entities, referred to as federal financial reporting entities. The AICPA Council designated FASAB as the body that establishes GAAP for federal entities in 1999.\n\nThe Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 required annual, audited financial statements for the United States Government and its federal reporting entities. In order to apply the statutes of the CFO Act of 1990, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the Comptroller General established FASAB to develop the \"applicable accounting principles\" for the newly required financial statements.\n\nFASAB issues the Statement of Federal Financial Accounting Standards (SFFAS), Interpretations, Technical Bulletins, Technical Releases, and Staff Implementation Guidance. FASAB standards are publicly available on its website--both by chapter and in the FASAB Handbook, which is updated annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "9293287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9293287", "title": "First Market Tower", "text": "First Market Tower\n\n525 Market Street, also known as First Market Tower, is an office skyscraper at the southwest corner of First- and Market Streets in the financial district of San Francisco, California. The , 39 floor tower was the second largest office building by square footage in the city (after 555 California Street) when completed in 1973.\n\n"}
{"id": "24261639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24261639", "title": "Hugo Sigman", "text": "Hugo Sigman\n\nHugo Sigman is the founder, CEO and –jointly with his wife, Biochemist Silvia Gold— the only shareholder of Grupo Insud, a business conglomerate with an active presence in the fields of pharmaceuticals, agroforestry, culture, nature and design.\n\nHugo Sigman was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1944. He completed his primary and secondary schooling in public schools.\nIn 1969, he earned his Medical Doctor degree from Universidad de Buenos Aires, and in the same year, he graduated from the Social Psychology School led by Dr. Pichon Riviére.\n\nIn 1970, he joined as Resident the Psychiatry Service of Policlínico Lanús, directed by Professor Mauricio Goldenberg. He continued his career, first as Chief of Residents, and then as founder and director of the Psychiatric Emergency Unit at the same hospital. In 1976, he moved to Spain, where he worked at the Psychiatry Service of Hospital Clínico de Barcelona.\n\nAt that time, encouraged by his father-in-law Roberto Gold, Hugo Sigman started his entrepreneurial career and got involved in the pharmaceutical industry.\nIn 1978, with his wife, Silvia Gold –his partner in love and work for 45 years-, he founded Chemo, a chemical-pharmaceutical company, and the first company of Grupo Insud.\nTheir goal was to create a company to produce high-quality medicines at affordable prices.\nIn the 1980s, Hugo and Silvia returned to Argentina to continue the path they had started in Europe.\n\nAt present, Grupo Insud comprises three companies in the life sciences industry: Chemo, a company that sells active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and finished dosage forms (FDFs) to 1,200 pharmaceutical companies around the world, has 15 manufacturing sites and 9 R&D centers; Exeltis, a company that sells branded products in more than 40 countries, and mAbxience, a biotech company created in 2008, with 3 manufacturing sites, the first monoclonal antibody plant in Latin America –pharmADN- and the first vaccine and biotech production plant in Argentina, Sinergium Biotech.\n\nChemo signed an agreement with the World Health Organization and Utrecht University to produce the Palivizumab monoclonal antibody and facilitate access to this medicine for premature children, as it is estimated that 250,000 premature children die every year around the world without treatment due to its high cost.\n\nJointly with renowned Argentine companies, in 2011 Hugo Sigman founded the Argentine Chamber of Biotechnology, Cámara Argentina de Biotecnología, which he currently chairs. The goal of CAB is to strengthen the public-private collaboration policy in biotechnology and encourage its development in the region.\nIn Argentina’s veterinary industry, he is a partner of Biogénesis Bagó, which runs a world-class facility for foot-and-mouth disease vaccine production, the only one that has been authorized by the government of China to build a plant in that country.\n\nFor 20 years, Hugo and Silvia have led the Public-Private Consortium for Research and Development of Innovative Oncology Therapies, which developed the first therapeutic vaccine against lung cancer, Racotumomab (Vaxira), introduced in 2013, and which currently has five new products in research.\n\nIn this framework, Hugo Sigman strongly supports public-private partnerships, which he views as a positive paradigm to be promoted with ethics and transparency. He understands that public research centers should give back to society by contributing their knowledge and developments, and the private sector should recognize that contribution by compensating them accordingly. Inspired in that model, he has built partnerships with prestigious institutions including Universidad de Buenos Aires, Universidad Nacional de Quilmes, Universidad Nacional de San Martín, Roffo and Garrahan Hospitals, , and several foreign universities.\n\nApproximately 250 researchers work at the partnerships supported by the Group, doing basic and applied research; 100 of them are dedicated to the development of products for treating cancer.\n\nHis entrepreneurial spirit and interest in biology have led Hugo Sigman beyond the frontiers of the pharmaceutical industry. In 1998, he started agricultural and forestry activities in different locations of Argentina, focused on genetic improvement and sustainable production, with companies Garruchos, devoted to farming and cattle-raising; Pomera, ranked as the top Argentine-capital forestry company; and Cabaña Los Murmullos, a leading cattle breeding ranch.\nSigman is also a shareholder of Bioceres, an Argentine biotechnology company focused on agricultural production. This young company developed a gene that enables the production of wheat, corn and soybean resistant to draughts and soil salinity, and has licensed its products to the USA, France and India.\n\nHugo Sigman encourages the exchange of ideas through publishing company Capital intellectual, which includes a line of publications in Spain under the publishing brand Clave Intellectual, the Southern Cone edition of Le Monde Diplomatique, and the Latin American version of prestigious The New York Review of Books.\nIn 2005, Hugo Sigman partnered with Oscar Kramer and established filmmaking company Kramer&Sigman Films (K&S), which has grown to be a thriving production company, with several box-office successes, including \"Kamchatka\", \"El perro\", \"The Last Elvis\", \"Seventh Floor\", \"Wild Tales\".\n\nProduced by Hugo Sigman for Kramer& Sigman Films and by El Deseo (Pedro Almodóvar and Agustín Almodóvar ’s production company), \"Wild Tales\" (Relatos Salvajes) was directed by Damián Szifron, starring Ricardo Darín, Julieta Zylberberg, Rita Cortese; Darío Grandinetti; Érica Rivas; Oscar Martínez and Leonardo Sbaraglia. Co-produced by Telefé and Corner, and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures, Wild Tales exceeded 1 million tickets sold in its first ten days of screening.\n\nAn art and culture enthusiast, between 2010 and 2013, Hugo Sigman was a member of the Advisory Council of the National Fine Arts Museum of\nArgentina, and is currently a member of the Board of Patronage of Museo Reina Sofía, in Madrid, Spain. Additionally, the venue of Grupo INSUD in Buenos Aires (the traditional Díaz Vélez Palace), built in 1907 and recently restored, has won several architectural awards and has been declared a protected heritage site of Buenos Aires City.\n\nHugo and Silvia have always had a strong commitment to give back to society. This social responsibility is infused in their work with the Mundo Sano Foundation. in Argentina, Spain and Ethiopia, with the vision to transform the reality of populations affected by neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) including Chagas, dengue and soil-transmitted helminths.\n\nIn 2015, Hugo Sigman received the Entrepreneur of the Year Award, from EY consulting firm (Ernst & Young) in Argentina.\n\nIn 2013, the Endeavor Foundation named him the \"Model Entrepreneur\" for his values and track record. In 2008, he received the merit diploma at the Konex Awards, in the \"Innovative Entrepreneurs\" category. In 2011, jointly with Silvia Gold, he received an award from Asociación de Dirigentes de Empresa (ADE) in the \"Agroindustry\" category.\n\nSigman presented the achievements of the Research, Development and Innovation Consortium at Experience Endeavor in August 2013, and at the 11th International Symposium on AIDS, organized by Fundación Huésped, in 2012.\n\nIn April 2012, he was a speaker at the Global Investment Forum, organized by the United Nations in Qatar. He presented the state-of-the-art productive investment model based on partnerships with other pharmaceutical companies and public entities.\n\nIn September 2011, Sigman was guest speaker at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development held in Geneva, Switzerland. His lecture was about the manufacturing of vaccines and biotechnologicals in Argentina. \"The Sinergium Biotech model of integration for the production of vaccines and biotech products involves technology transfer, export potential and the creation of 320 jobs,\" said Sigman. Also in 2011, Sigman delivered a presentation on global entrepreneurship at the 47th IDEA Colloquium.\n\nIn 2009, Sigman took part in the 15th Conference of the Argentine Industrial Union, and was guest speaker representing Argentina at Harvard and Columbia Universities.\n\n"}
{"id": "39395954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39395954", "title": "Hyperscale", "text": "Hyperscale\n\nIn computing, hyperscale is the ability of an architecture to scale appropriately as increased demand is added to the system. This typically involves the ability to seamlessly provision and add compute, memory, networking, and storage resources to a given node or set of nodes that make up a larger computing, distributed computing, or grid computing environment. Hyperscale computing is necessary in order to build a robust and scalable cloud, big data, map reduce, or distributed storage system and is often associated with the infrastructure required to run large distributed sites such as Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Amazon, or Oracle. Companies like Ericsson and Intel provide hyperscale infrastructure kits for IT service providers.\n\n"}
{"id": "26251329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26251329", "title": "Håkan Jeppsson", "text": "Håkan Jeppsson\n\nHåkan Lennart Jeppsson (born 6 May 1961) is a Swedish businessman who is currently the chairman of the Swedish Association football club Malmö FF, a post he has held since 2010. Jeppsson received his education at Lund University and works as CEO for Inwido.\n\nIn his younger years Jeppsson played football at Malmö FF simultaneously as he played table tennis at IK Pallas. After a couple of years being active in both sports he decided to quit football in favour of becoming a professional table tennis player. Jeppsson had his active career at the same time as Sweden was dominating the table tennis world in the 1970s and the 1980s. After growing tired of the life as a professional player he decided to focus on a civil career and started studying international economy at Lund University.\n\nAfter graduating he worked his way up to higher positions. Jeppsson was the president of Papyrus AB from 1999 to 2002. He later went on to become the president and CEO of BE group. Jeppsson has been the president and CEO of Inwido since 2009.\n\nJeppsson was elected a board member of Malmö FF in 2004. Eventually he was elected vice chairman under Bengt Madsen. In 2010 when Madsen decided not to stand for re-election Jeppsson was the only candidate to succeed him and did so on 18 February 2010. In his first year as chairman and the same year as the club's centennial anniversary Malmö FF won its 16th Swedish championship.\n\nMalmö FF had completed the move from former home stadium Malmö Stadion to Swedbank Stadion a year before Jeppsson's presidency began. The new stadium created both financial opportunities as well as certain risks for the club. These risks became apparent when the club announced that the loss for the 2010 season was 30 million kronor. As a result, the club sacked its current managing director and Jeppsson announced that there would be several austerity measures to turn the result back to positive. As part of the plan Malmö FF increased their share in Swedbank Stadion to 75% to reduce costs and increase profits.\n\n"}
{"id": "50893423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50893423", "title": "Inés Temple", "text": "Inés Temple\n\nInés Temple Arciniaga is a Peruvian businesswoman. She is president of Lee Hecht Harrison Peru and Lee Hecht Harrison Chile.\n\nTemple has a BS in business administration from New York University in New York City, and an MBA from the Adolfo Ibañez School of Management in Miami, Florida. She has 3 children.\n\nShe set up the Peruvian branch of Drake Beam Morin, a human resources company, in 1993. In 2011, Drake Beam Morin was acquired by Adecco and merged with its existing Lee Hecht Harrison subsidiary.\n\nShe wrote \"Usted S.A - Empleabilidad & Marketing Personal\" in 2010; it has gone through several editions and was among the top selling books in Perú for 2013.\n\nShe has chaired the board of directors of Perú2021, and of CARE Peru.\n\n"}
{"id": "8656668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8656668", "title": "Jean-Louis de Cartier de Marchienne", "text": "Jean-Louis de Cartier de Marchienne\n\nBaron Jean-Louis de Cartier de Marchienne is a Belgian businessman. He is a member of the board and Managing Director of Carta Mundi, the world leader in the production of playing cards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19028214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19028214", "title": "Jean Chatzky", "text": "Jean Chatzky\n\nJean Sherman Chatzky (born November 7, 1964) is an American financial journalist, author and motivational speaker. Chatzky has given personal financial advice on various TV shows. She is the financial editor for NBC's \"Today Show\".\n\nBorn in Michigan and raised in Wisconsin, Indiana and West Virginia, Chatzky holds a BA in English from the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nStarting her career in 1986 at \"Working Woman\", Chatzky rose from editorial assistant to the assistant editor. In 1989 she left journalism and joined the equity research department of Dean Witter Reynolds, returning to journalism two years later as a reporter/researcher at Forbes. She moved to the Dow Jones/Hearst start-up SmartMoney in 1992, rising from staff writer to senior editor. After a five-year run, Chatzky joined \"Money Magazine\" in 1998.\n\nChatzky has appeared on \"Oprah\", \"Live With Regis and Kelly\", \"The View\" and other programs. She has written for \"Parents\", \"Seventeen\", \"Cosmopolitan\", was a staff writer for SmartMoney and a fact checker for \"Forbes\".\n\nChatzky is also the financial editor for NBC’s Today Show. Jean also maintains a daily blog on her website, www.jeanchatzky.com. In 2011 Jean became the Director of Education for Savvymoney.com.\n\nIn addition to her professional work, Chatzky supports various service groups and is on the board of the Nora Magid Mentorship prize at the University of Pennsylvania, co-founded by her husband, Eliot Kaplan, which helps journalism students get a head-start in the field. She is also on the Communications Committee for the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nShe is a resident of Briarcliff Manor, New York, where her former husband Peter Chatzky served as mayor.\n\n\nChatzky received the Clarion Award for magazine columns from the Association of Woman in Communications in 2002, and her radio show received a Gracie Award from the American Women in Radio and Television. She has also been nominated twice as part of a three-person writing team each time for National Magazine Awards in Personal Service and was named one of the country’s 30 best magazine columnists by the \"Chicago Tribune\" in 2003. In 2009, the Consumer Federation of America awarded Chatzky the Betty Furness Consumer Media Service Award for her nearly two decades of pioneering personal finance education.\n\n"}
{"id": "29619329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29619329", "title": "John Paterson (Cape politician)", "text": "John Paterson (Cape politician)\n\nJohn (\"Jock\") Paterson (1822 – 1880) was a prominent politician and successful businessman of the Cape Colony, and had a great influence on the development of Port Elizabeth where he was based. He ran newspapers, established the Grey Institute and played a significant role in founding South Africa's Standard Bank. As a politician he was somewhat less successful, playing a role in the failed separatist movement for a British ruled Eastern Cape in the 1870s and backing Carnarvon’s ill-fated confederation plan.\n\nBorn and raised in Aberdeen, Scotland, Paterson studied at Marischal university college and emigrated to Port Elizabeth in 1841 to take up a position as a school master. Later he successfully persuaded Sir George Grey, then the Governor of the Cape Colony, to take an interest in his proposals for new boys schools and Grey made land and funding available to Paterson for their founding.\n\nHe had a notoriously volatile temperament. On 7 May 1845, he secretly started his first business, the \"Eastern Province Herald\" newspaper, with his partner John R. Phillip as the official owner. As he was still contracted by the state this was an illegal activity so his involvement remained clandestine. After the two men fought, Paterson stopped publication in 1850 and started a new newspaper, the \"Eastern Province News\" which he soon renamed to the original name in 1854. He later sold the newspaper in 1857 to his friend Robert Godlonton who owned the \"Grahamstown Journal\", though he continued to use the paper as a platform for his opinions. Philip meanwhile had opened the competing \"Port Elizabeth Mercury\" newspaper.\n\nPaterson was however already a successful businessman. He had made a series of property investments on the outskirts of the expanding town of Port Elizabeth, and a range of other business enterprises. He also briefly served as the Consular Agent for the United States in Port Elizabeth, and gained much American business for his trading firm though this. \nHe had a lifelong interest in boys schools, and founded several in his life, including Grey High School, an elite school for boys in Port Elizabeth that he founded in 1856.\n\nPaterson's temperament led him to be intensely drawn to politics, from relatively early on. His early activity involved lobbying for increased European immigration, and the widespread anti-convict agitation of 1849.\n\nIn 1854 he was elected to the first Cape Parliament as one of the two members for Port Elizabeth (together with Henry Fancourt White). From the beginning of his political career he made the secession of the eastern part of the Cape Colony a priority. He felt very strongly that the Xhosa people of the eastern Cape frontier were a severe threat to the colonists' safety and that this threat was not helped by the Cape government's relaxed attitude to the frontier. The Cape Town parliament at the time was also dominated by liberals such as Saul Solomon who prevented the settlers of the eastern Cape from cheaply exploiting African labour. Deprived of cheap African labour, Paterson then moved a resolution to import indentured \"coolie labour\" from Asia to work the farms instead, but the government blocked that motion too.\nAltogether, Paterson felt that the distant and overly-tolerant Cape government was \"...the root of all the troubles with the kaffirs...\".\n\nHis proposed solution was a view which he held for the remainder of his life - that the white eastern Cape deserved a greater degree of separation, or to become the seat of the Cape's parliament and government. In this, he differed from the radical members of the \"separatist league\", who were based further east in Grahamstown, were led by Robert Godlonton, and who proposed absolute and immediate separation. He also angered Godlonton's Grahamstown clique by his blocking of their Kowie harbour proposal, which he saw as potentially taking shipping activity away from Port Elizabeth. The separatist movement began a gradual decline due to a growing fear in the Midlands around Port Elizabeth and Graaff-Reinett that if they attained separation then they would fall under the domination of Grahamstown.\n\nHe resigned from politics in 1858 due to his wife's fatal illness.\n\nIn 1859 he made a business trip to Britain where he had a great deal of family and business connections, and he even made a bid for a seat in the British parliament, which he eventually decided against.\n\nIn 1862 he founded Standard Bank, now one of the largest banks in southern Africa. However he later suffered several business failures and declared bankruptcy in 1867.\n\nIn 1872, the Cape attained self-rule (or \"responsible government\" as it was known) and an economic boom ensued as the new locally elected government began vast infrastructure projects across the country. Paterson, financially uplifted by the economic boom, re-entered politics.\n\nPaterson was elected to the Cape Parliament again in 1873. The enormous growth in the economy was fueling a competition between the ports Cape Town and Port Elizabeth, for the expanding inland trade. Paterson therefore returned to his fight for a moderate form of separation - so as to avoid dominance by either Cape Town to the west, or Grahamstown to the east. \nIn other developments, he put forward bills for a local government system, and for a division of public money according to customs and land revenue, but both bills were defeated.\n\nPaterson and his political ally John Gordon Sprigg comprised the core of the opposition to the first Cape government, together with the renegade independent John X. Merriman (who soon joined the government). Paterson's strongest critic was the liberal Saul Solomon, who ridiculed Paterson's ideas.\n\nPaterson's role in the \"Eastern Cape Separatist League\" also brought him into a direct showdown with the strong-willed Prime Minister of the Cape, John Molteno – a firm proponent of regional and racial unity in the Cape – who reacted in May 1874 by passing the Seven Circles Act. This re-drew the borders of the Cape’s subdivisions, abolishing the last legal remnants of the East/West distinction. Together with Molteno's policy of drawing ministers from the Eastern Cape into his government, and the general rising prosperity of the whole country, this effectively crushed the separatist movement. Paterson fought the Bill bitterly, but nonetheless kept his seat in parliament as a member of the opposition once it was passed. He went on to become the primary critic of the Molteno Ministry over the following years, even when the official head of the opposition John X. Merriman joined Molteno's unity government.\n\nNot always popular, Paterson's views, and especially the way in which he delivered them, often provoked considerable hostility in parliament. This all too frequently left him isolated and unable to do more than temporarily obstruct government projects.\n\nStarting in 1874, the British Secretary of State for the Colonies, Lord Carnarvon, having recently federated Canada, began a project to impose the very same system of confederation on the very different states of southern Africa. This was to consolidate European control of southern Africa and bring about a united policy towards the Black African inhabitants. Lord Carnarvon also expressed an interest in making Paterson the next Cape Prime Minister, in order to bring this about.\n\nThere was little local enthusiasm for the project, and its timing was particularly unfortunate – coming when the various southern African states were still simmering after the last bout of British imperial expansion. However Carnarvon was determined, and appointed Henry Bartle Frere – an autocratic imperialist with little experience of southern African politics – as governor, with instructions to implement Carnarvon's confederation. Molteno turned the confederation idea down flat, saying it was impractical and badly timed, but Paterson saw an opportunity to ensure that his eastern province gained autonomy (albeit within the proposed confederation), and that he himself could win the position of leading it. In a series of letters between him and Carnarvon (\"The Confederation Despatch\", 1876), Paterson discreetly offered the British Colonial Office his support against the Molteno government in exchange for vague promises of a future leadership position. Paterson also made a public call for a British invasion and annexation of the Transvaal Republic, for the future confederation. When Molteno, by now furious with Paterson for what he saw as a betrayal of the Cape's independence and democracy, made it clear that he was willing to resign but not to endorse confederation, Frere used the authority of the British Colonial Office to suspend the elected Cape government and assumed direct control in 1878 (appointing Gordon Sprigg as his puppet Prime Minister, instead of Paterson who was at the time considered too divisive a politician for the job). Paterson, disappointed, then travelled to London as a representative of the potential new Eastern Province, while Frere launched his invasion of Zululand in 1879 before being recalled to London to face charges of misconduct.\n\nThe confederation scheme was dropped, having by now spawned a trail of wars across southern Africa – including new frontier wars against the Xhosa and the Pedi people, the Anglo-Zulu war, the Basuto Gun War and later the First Boer War.\n\nPaterson died suspiciously on his way back to the Cape in May 1880 in a bizarre double-shipwreck. He initially twice delayed his departure, missing ships, before he boarded the ship the Union R.M.S. \"American\". The \"American\" was then dramatically wrecked off West Africa, when its propeller-shaft snapped, bent and tore open part of the ship's plating. The passengers evacuated the ship in an ordered way before it sank but, adrift in the Atlantic Ocean, the lifeboats became separated. The passengers were all later found and rescued. However, Paterson's lifeboat was separately picked up by the \"Senegal\" which then ran aground on the coast of Grand Canary Island. In the chaos following this second shipwreck, Paterson was reported to have been struck by a hard object (reportedly the ship's propeller) and killed. He was the only casualty from the two shipwrecks.\n\nUpon news of Paterson's death, flags across the Cape were flown at half mast. His obituary in the \"Cape Argus\", while acknowledging the political controversy and hostility he sometimes caused, paid tribute to his zeal for what he believed to be right, and to his enormous achievements. The village of Paterson in the Eastern Cape, South Africa was named after him.\n\nWriter Stanley Little commented on Paterson's death and political style in his 1887 work on the Cape's political leaders. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "27922654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27922654", "title": "Joseph Hackmey", "text": "Joseph Hackmey\n\nJoseph D. Hackmey is an Israeli businessman, insurance company executive, actuary, investor, and an art and stamp collector. Art News listed Hackmey as one of the 200 biggest art collectors in the world.\nHe was the Chairman of Israel Phoenix.\n\nChairman of the Israeli Insurance Association and Chairman of the Israeli Life Offices Association.\nJoseph Hackmey is a 5th generation Israeli. His grandfather, Joseph Hackmey Shvili directed Barclays bank – then the largest bank in Mandatory Palestine. His second grandfather, Moshe Carasso, was a prominent businessman in Palestine. His father, David, established an assurance agency in 1943, when he was 24 years old. In 1949 Hackmey turned his assurance agency into an assurance company. At the time, his partners were the English Phoenix Assurance Company and the Israel Discount Bank.\n\nHackmey was born in Tel Aviv to a Sepharadi-Jerusalemite family on his father's side and a Sepharadi-Greek-Italian family on his mother's side. His sister, Nitza Kanfer, is 12 years younger than him.\n\nHackmey attended Boarding schools in Switzerland. He earned a B.Sc. degree in mathematics at M.I.T. in 1964. He continued his studies at M.I.T. and earned an M.sc. degree in electrical engineering in 1965, at the age of 20. An honorary post-graduate diploma in actuarial science and business administration from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem was awarded in 1967. Hackmey received an MA in Judaic Studies from New York University in 2013.\n\nHackmey knows seven languages.\n\nHackmey commenced his insurance career in 1968 with the Israel Phoenix Assurance company. After seven years he was appointed by the board of directors as chief executive officer of the Phoenix. Four years after he appointed as CEO the Phoenix profits multiplied by five times. He was elected Chairman of the Israeli Insurance Association twice and Chairman of the Israeli Life Offices Association twice. When his father died in 1991, Hackmey succeeded him as the Chairman of Israel Phoenix. In 2002 Hackmey and his sister sold their stake of 56.8% in the Israel Phoenix Assurance company, for 314 million US$. At the time, it was the third largest insurance company in Israel. It was sold to the brothers in law, Ya'akov Shahar and Israel Kez, the importers of Volvo cars to Israel and the owners of Maccabi Haifa football team.\n\nIn 1994, a London-based art news magazine named Hackmey \"Art Collector of the year\". The Israel Phoenix corporate collection, consisting of 2,200 items, most of them paintings and a small quantity of sculptures, was estimated in 2002 to be worth 216 million shekels. The international collection included Picasso, Matisse, Robert Rauschenberg, Barnett Newman, Jasper Johns, Jean Dubuffet, Mark Rothko. The Israeli collection included Reuven Rubin, Yehezkel Streichman, Arie Aroch, Joseph Zaritsky, Yitzhak Danziger, Marcel Janco, Mordecai Ardon, Aviva Uri, Raffi Lavie, Avigdor Stematsky.\n\nProfessor Mordechai Omer, director of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art, studied the collection and published a selection of it in a 600-page book. In 1998 Tel Aviv Museum of Art organized an exhibition which included 300 items from the collection.\n\nHackmey also possesses a large personal collection of international art and Israeli art, including a special collection of young Israeli artists.\n\nHackmey is an enthusiastic philatelist. His collections of Ceylon and New Zealand Commonwealth stamps considered to be the finest ever assembled for those countries, and Hackmey was presented with an International Award in recognition for his record. Hackmey's most remarkable purchase, is a November 11, 1858 issue of Romanian newspaper Zimbrul și Vulturul. The item bears eight rare Romanian cap de bour (\"Bull's Head\") stamps, issued by the principality of Moldova in 1858. He won the Grand Prix National and a Large Gold Medal at the Efiro 2008 in Bucharest for his exhibit Classical Romania. He also owned a May 1851 cover widely considered to be the greatest USA Classic cover in existence.\n\nHe also won Grand Prix medals at the World Philatelic Exhibitions, Istanbul 1996, Israel 1998, Israel 2008, and was a candidate for the Grand Prix in Washington, 2006.\n\nHackmey is a Fellow of the Royal Philatelic Society, London and a member of the Collectors Club of New York. In 2010 he was elected an associate foreign member of the Académie de philatélie, Paris.\n\nThe Bnai Brith International organization awarded Hackmey the \"Bnai Brith International Humanitarian award\". In 2009 he received an honorary doctorate degree from the Tel Aviv University in recognition of his various contributions to Israeli society, including art, music and culture.\n\nHackmey is a member of the board of governors of the Weizmann Institute of Science, the Israel Museum, the Tel Aviv Museum, the Tel Aviv University, the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, the Israeli Opera, the Israeli Philharmonic Orchestra, and is a member of the International Council of the Tate Gallery of London. He served as the Chairman of the Israeli Chess Association, and during his chairmanship, the number of Israeli international chess grandmasters had increased from 5 to 29.\n\nHe established Hackmey Hebrew Classical Library, joined its two world-famous predecessors at Harvard University Press – the Loeb Classical Library. it will offer classical texts – in the case of the Hackmey Library, Hebrew and Aramaic in facing-page translation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1300701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1300701", "title": "Juanita Broaddrick", "text": "Juanita Broaddrick\n\nJuanita Broaddrick is an American former nursing home administrator. In 1999, she alleged that U.S. President Bill Clinton raped her in April 1978 when he was the attorney general of Arkansas. Clinton's attorney, David Kendall denied the allegations on his client's behalf. Clinton declined to comment further on the issue.\n\nRumors circulated about Broaddrick's allegations for many years, but she refused to speak to the media. In a sworn statement in 1997 with the placeholder name \"Jane Doe #5\", Broaddrick filed an affidavit with Paula Jones' lawyers stating there were unfounded rumors and stories circulating \"that Mr. Clinton had made unwelcome sexual advances toward me in the late seventies. ... These allegations are untrue\".\n\nSpeculation continued that Broaddrick had more to say on the matter, and in an interview with \"Dateline NBC\" that aired on February 24, 1999, Broaddrick told her story in public in full for the first time, this time stating that Clinton had indeed raped her. It is the most serious of the claims that emerged during the 1990s comprising the Bill Clinton sexual misconduct allegations.\n\nBroaddrick's claims have received new attention as a consequence of the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign, 2016 and the 2017 #MeToo phenomenon.\n\nBroaddrick is from Van Buren, Arkansas, a town in the northwest part of the state. She was born Juanita Smith to parents Buster Smith and Mary Elizabeth Smith. She has an older sister. Her father owned the Smith Cleaners establishment. The family belonged to the Episcopal Church. In her memoir she says her mother was physically and emotionally abusive to her and her sister.\n\nJuanita Smith graduated from Van Buren High School in 1960. She attended nursing school at Sparks School of Nursing from 1960 to 1963. She then worked as a registered nurse at several nursing homes.\n\nIn 1974 she decided she wanted to run a nursing home herself and so she bought one in Van Buren. It was known as the Brownwood Manor Nursing Home. Her mother was part owner with her.\n\nJuanita was first married to Gary Hickey, with the marriage happening before she left nursing school. They had a son who was born around 1969. At the time of the alleged 1978 rape, she was having an affair with David Broaddrick, who also was married to another person.\n\nBroaddrick, who was known as Juanita Hickey at the time, first met Clinton when he made a visit to her nursing home during his 1978 gubernatorial campaign. Clinton was Arkansas Attorney General at the time. Broaddrick wanted to volunteer for the campaign, and says Clinton invited her to stop by the campaign office in Little Rock. She contacted the office a few weeks later while in the area for a nursing home conference. Clinton said he would not be in the campaign office that day and suggested they meet at her hotel's coffee shop instead. Upon his arrival, however, he allegedly requested that they instead have coffee in her room to avoid a crowd of reporters in the lobby. Broaddrick agreed.\n\nBroaddrick says the two spoke briefly in her room, with Clinton describing plans to renovate a prison visible from her window if he became governor. Then, according to Broaddrick, Clinton suddenly kissed her. Broaddrick says she pushed Clinton away and told him she was married and not interested, but he persisted. As recounted in the NBC interview:\n\nWhen asked if there was any way Clinton could have thought it was consensual, Broaddrick said \"No, not with what I told him and with how I tried to push him away. It was not consensual.\"\n\nBroaddrick shared the hotel room with her friend and employee Norma Rogers. Rogers attended a conference seminar that morning, and says she returned to their room to find Broaddrick on the bed \"in a state of shock,\" her pantyhose torn in the crotch and her lip swollen as though she had been hit. Rogers says Broaddrick told her Clinton had \"forced himself on her.\" Rogers helped Broaddrick ice her lip, and then the women left Little Rock. Rogers said that Broaddrick was very upset on the way home and blamed herself for letting Clinton in the room. Broaddrick says she did not tell her husband, Gary Hickey, about the incident, and told him she accidentally injured her lip. He told NBC he did not remember the injury or her explanation. David Broaddrick, however, has said he noticed her injured lip, and she told him that Clinton had raped her when he asked about it. Three other friends confirmed that Broaddrick had told them about the incident at the time: Susan Lewis, Louis Ma, and Jean Darden, Norma Rogers' sister. Broaddrick did not recall the date of the alleged incident, but said it was spring of 1978 and that she had stayed in the Camelot Hotel. Records show Broaddrick attended a nursing home meeting at the Camelot Hotel in Little Rock on April 25, 1978. The Clinton White House would not respond to requests for Clinton's official schedule for the date, but news reports suggest that he was in Little Rock that day, with no official commitments in the morning.\n\nThree weeks after the alleged assault, Broaddrick participated in a small Clinton fundraiser at the home of a local dentist. Broaddrick said she was \"in denial\" and felt guilty, thinking that she had given Clinton the wrong idea by letting him into her room. When she arrived at the event, she says, her friend who had picked the Clintons up from the airport told her that Hillary Clinton had asked if she would be at the event. Broaddrick says Bill Clinton did not speak to her at the event, but Hillary Clinton approached her, took her hand, and said \"I just want you to know how much Bill and I appreciate what you do for him.\" When Broaddrick moved her hand away, she says, Hillary Clinton held on to her and said, \"Do you understand? Everything that you do.\" Broaddrick says she felt nauseated and left the gathering. Broaddrick says she interpreted the incident as Hillary Clinton thanking her for keeping quiet.\n\nShe divorced Hickey around 1979 and married David Broaddrick around 1981.\n\nBroaddrick opened a second facility, to provide services for mentally disabled children in Fort Smith, Arkansas.\n\nIn 1984, Broaddrick's nursing facility was adjudged the best in the state, which brought a congratulatory official letter from the governor. On the bottom was a handwritten note from Clinton, saying, \"I admire you very much.\"\n\nBroaddrick said that in 1991, Clinton called her out of a state nursing standards meeting to try to apologize: \"'Juanita, I'm so sorry for what I did. I'm not the man that I used to be, can you ever forgive me? What can I do to make this up to you?' And I'm standing there in absolute shock. And I told him to go to hell, and I walked off.\" Jean Darden, in whom Broaddrick had confided about the incident, also attended the meeting, and said she saw Broaddrick talking to Clinton in the hallway. Clinton announced his 1992 presidential campaign soon after that alleged interaction.\n\nThough Broaddrick was resistant to talking to the media, rumors about her story began circulating no later than Clinton's presidential bid in 1992. Broaddrick had confided in Phillip Yoakum, whom she knew from business circles and at the time considered a friend. When Clinton won the Democratic nomination, Yoakum, widely considered to have a Republican agenda, contacted Sheffield Nelson, Clinton's opponent in the 1990 gubernatorial race. Yoakum arranged a meeting between Nelson and Broaddrick, who resisted Yoakum's and Nelson's push that she go public. Yoakum secretly taped the conversation and wrote a letter summarizing the allegations, which began to circulate within Republican circles. The story reached the \"New York Times\" and the \"Los Angeles Times\" in October 1992, but the papers dropped the story after Broaddrick refused to talk to reporters and Yoakum refused to release the recording.\n\nIn the fall of 1997, Paula Jones's private investigators tried to talk to Broaddrick at her home, also secretly taping the conversation. Broaddrick refused to discuss the incident, saying \"it was just a horrible horrible thing,\" and that she \"wouldn't relive it for anything.\" The investigators told her she would likely be subpoenaed if she would not talk to them. Broaddrick said she would deny everything, saying \"you can't get to him, and I'm not going to ruin my good name to do it ... there's just absolutely no way anyone can get to him, he's just too vicious.\" Broaddrick was subpoenaed in the Jones suit soon after and submitted an affidavit denying that Clinton had made \"any sexual advances\". The recording of Broaddrick's conversation with the investigators was leaked to the press, but Broaddrick continued to refuse to speak to reporters.\n\nDespite Broaddrick's denial in her affidavit, Jones' lawyers included Yoakum's letter and Broaddrick's name in a 1998 filing. The letter suggested that the Clintons had bought Broaddrick's silence, describing a phone call where Broaddrick's husband asked Yoakum to say the incident never happened and said that he intended to ask Clinton \"for a couple of big favors.\" This, along with the discrepancy between the letter and Broaddrick's affidavit, attracted the attention of independent counsel Kenneth Starr, who was investigating Clinton for obstruction of justice. After being approached by the FBI, Broaddrick consulted her son, a lawyer, who told her she could not lie to federal investigators. After Starr granted her immunity, thus assuring that she would not be prosecuted for perjury regarding her affidavit in the Jones case, Broaddrick recanted the affidavit. However, she insisted that Clinton had not pressured or bribed her in any way, and so Starr concluded that the story was not relevant to his investigation and his report only mentioned the recanting in a footnote.\n\nRumors continued to circulate in tabloids and on talk radio, now with Broaddrick's name attached. Broaddrick was upset by a tabloid report that she had been paid to keep quiet, and decided to agree to an interview with NBC's Lisa Myers. Myers interviewed her on January 20, 1999, the day after Clinton was impeached. The interview only aired on February 24, 1999, 35 days later and after Clinton had been acquitted on February 12. NBC was accused of intentionally sitting on the story and invoking unusually demanding standards of corroboration until the impeachment process ended. Broaddrick and another source said NBC gathered the key corroborating evidence within 10 days of the interview, NBC assistant producer Chris Giglio said it may have taken him 14 days—in either case, while the impeachment process was ongoing. Though the story was unaired, at least one Republican senator reportedly invoked it to convince undecided Republicans to vote for impeachment.\n\nWhile NBC waited to air the interview, Broaddrick was approached by Dorothy Rabinowitz, who wrote for the \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial page. Upset with NBC's delay, Broaddrick agreed to speak with Rabinowitz, and the story debuted on the \"Wall Street Journal\"'s editorial page on February 19. NBC aired Myers' interview soon after.\n\nOn Friday night, February 19, 1999, Clinton's attorney, David Kendall, denied the allegations on Clinton's behalf. Kendall stated: \"Any allegation that the president assaulted Mrs. Broaddrick more than 20 years ago is absolutely false. Beyond that, we're not going to comment.\"\n\nClinton himself did not say anything on the matter. When asked about Broaddrick's claims at a news conference on February 24, 1999, Clinton said: \"Well, my counsel has made a statement about the ... issue, and I have nothing to add to it.\"\n\nClinton has never been charged with anything in connection with Broaddrick's allegations.\n\nBecause of the time elapsed since the alleged incident and the nature of acquaintance rape cases, there was limited corroborating evidence and so the allegations rested on Broaddrick's testimony. Because she had filed and then recanted an affidavit saying there was no assault, some thought she was not credible. According to the \"New York Times\" in 1999, the problems with Broaddrick<nowiki>'s accusations were that \"There is no physical evidence to verify it. No one else was present during the alleged encounter in a Little Rock hotel room nearly 21 years ago. The hotel has since closed. And Mrs. Broaddrick denied the encounter in an affidavit in January 1998 in the Paula Jones case, in which she was known only as \"Jane Doe No. 5.\"</nowiki> Through all those years, she refused to come forward. When pressed by the Jones lawyers, she denied the allegation. And now, she has recanted that denial.\"\n\nIn March 1999 \"Slate\" magazine ran a much-cited analysis piece, called \"Is Juanita Broaddrick Telling the Truth?\", that gave possible grounds upon which Broaddrick should be believed, or should not be believed, regarding each of a number of key points. On the disbelief side, it was suggested the five people that said Broaddrick had confided in them soon after the incident could be lying. Rogers and Darden had an independent reason to dislike Clinton: as they notified NBC, Clinton had commuted the life sentence of the man who killed their father. The disbelief argument proposes that they may have a grudge against Clinton. Even if the confidants were telling the truth, skeptics noted that Broaddrick could have been lying when she originally confided in them.\n\nSome details in Broaddrick's account corresponded with other women's allegations. In an interview that emerged after Broaddrick's allegations, Elizabeth Ward Gracen said that Clinton bit her lip during a consensual encounter that became rough.\n\nBroaddrick said that after the assault, Clinton told her not to worry about pregnancy because childhood mumps had rendered him sterile. When contacted about the issue, Gennifer Flowers, who Clinton later admitted to a sexual relationship with, agreed that Clinton had thought he couldn't have children.\n\nIn March 1999, shortly after the allegations publicly aired, 56% of Americans believed the allegations were false, while a third believed that Broaddrick's allegation of rape was at least possibly true. Similarly, 29% of the public felt the press should continue to cover the story, while 66% felt that the media should stop pursuing the story.\n\nThe public and media had \"scandal fatigue\" from the repeated sexual misconduct allegations against Clinton and, after his impeachment and acquittal, many felt the charges had nowhere to go. Many reporters had encountered the story while it was being disseminated by Republican activists and felt they had already looked into it. Jack Nelson, Washington bureau chief of the \"Los Angeles Times\", said \"This is a story that's been knocked down and discredited so many times ... [E]veryone's taken a slice of it, and after looking at it, everyone's knocked it down. The woman has changed her story about whether it happened. It just wasn't credible.\" Julia Malone, a Cox Communications reporter, became frustrated by what she perceived as media neglect of the story and held a National Press Club panel on the issue entitled \"Too Hot for a 'Scandal-Weary' New Media to Handle?\" Sam Donaldson of ABC News said he was frustrated over his fellow reporters' unwillingness to press Clinton to respond to the allegations: Clinton refused to comment when Donaldson asked about the allegations, and no one else would press the issue.\n\nJudgement on the Broaddrick matter has varied among book-length treatments of the Bill Clinton years. Joe Conason and Gene Lyons' book \"The Hunting of the President\" argued that Broaddrick's claim is not credible, noting that the FBI had found evidence for the allegations \"inconclusive\". Michael Isikoff's book, \"Uncovering Clinton\", stated that Clinton's lawyers figured that he might well have had consensual, extramarital sex with Broaddrick, but they did not believe he would have forced himself on her. Christopher Hitchens' book, \"No One Left to Lie To\", argued that Broaddrick's claim is credible and shows similarities to Paula Jones' later allegation of sexual harassment.\n\nBroaddrick filed a lawsuit against Clinton in December 1999 to obtain documents that the White House may have gathered about her, claiming its refusal to accede to her demand for such documents violated the Privacy Act of 1974. Her lawyer was conservative judicial activist Larry Klayman, head of Judicial Watch. The suit was dismissed by U.S. District Court Judge Henry H. Kennedy, Jr. in March 2001. The judge ruled that the Privacy Act did not apply in this case and that Broaddrick had failed to show evidence that the U.S. Department of Justice had improperly released documents about her. The lawsuit did not ask for money, and indeed unlike many of the women involved in Bill Clinton instances, Broaddrick did not seek out financial settlements, publishing deals, or a role as a celebrity.\n\nDuring that time, Broaddrick's business was audited by the IRS which she charged was retaliation: \"I do not believe this was coincidence,\" Broaddrick declared, \"I do not think our number just came up.\"\n\nAs the United States Senate election in New York, 2000 unfolded, in which Hillary was a candidate, Broaddrick published an open letter to her, denouncing her alleged role in covering for her husband's alleged attack.\n\nThe Broaddricks divorced in 2004. David Broaddrick had opposed her going public with her rape story in 1999. Juanita Broaddrick felt, according to a 2005 book, that the publicity around the \"Dateline\" interview contributed significantly to the end of her second marriage. She says she also developed a fear of enclosed spaces as a result of what happened.\n\nIn 2008 Broaddrick sold her nursing home business and retired, having done well as a businesswoman. She continues to live in Van Buren, on a 23-acre farm.\n\nBroaddrick resurrected her rape claims on Twitter during the United States presidential election, 2016, as Hillary Clinton was the Democratic nominee for president.\n\nIn this context, the Broaddrick case has often brought about unease on the part of people who are generally supportive of the Clintons. In an October 2016 recap of the case, Dylan Matthews of Vox said: \"The basic answer is that some of the claims [against Bill Clinton] appear more credible than others. There are three main accusers [the others being Jones and Willey], of whom it seems by far the most credible—based on the publicly available evidence—is Broaddrick.\" Matthews continues: \"Given the prevailing view among many progressives—including Hillary Clinton—that one should default to believing rape accusers, the Broaddrick allegation thus poses a problem.\" Michelle Goldberg of \"Slate\" wrote in a late 2015 essay, \"our rules for talking about sexual assault have changed since the 1990s, when these women were last in the news. Today, feminists have repeatedly and convincingly made the case that when women say they've been sexually assaulted, we should assume they're telling the truth. Particularly when it comes to Broaddrick, it's not easy to square the arguments against believing her with the dominant progressive consensus on trusting victims. This is a tension that people on the right are eager to exploit.\"\n\nMany conservative commentators who were typically quite skeptical of sexual assault claims without firm evidence, found Broaddrick's allegations quite believable.\nAs Katie J. M. Baker of BuzzFeed lamented, \"In theory, partisan politics shouldn't play a role in determining whether an alleged rape victim deserves to be heard.\" Similar observations have been made by Robby Soave of \"Reason\" magazine.\n\nThe now-retired NBC reporter who broadcast her story, Lisa Myers, has said: \"No one can objectively look at Juanita's story and not be troubled. One of the things that makes her so credible is who she is—open, straightforward, seemingly guileless.\"\n\nWhen in late 2015, during a town hall that was an event during the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign, 2016, Hillary Clinton was asked about this question in terms of these women's charges, she responded: \"Well, I would say that everyone should be believed at first until they are disbelieved based on evidence.\"\n\nIn January 2016, Broaddrick shared on the social networking site Twitter, \"I was 35 years old when Bill Clinton, Ark. Attorney General raped me and Hillary tried to silence me. I am now 73. ... it never goes away.\" Broaddrick said she was neither a Democrat nor a Republican, but she supported Donald Trump's presidential campaign: \"He says the things I like to hear.\" In the United States presidential election, 2008 she voted for Barack Obama and gave more than $1,000 to his campaign because he was running against Hillary Clinton. She agreed with Trump's injection of Bill Clinton's acknowledged and alleged sexual misdeeds into the campaign. And as the campaign went on, she more and more aligned herself with conservative actions and outlook.\n\nOn October 8, 2016, in the wake of the Donald Trump \"Access Hollywood\" controversy, Trump retweeted Broaddrick's tweets in which she calls Bill Clinton a \"rapist\" and calls Hillary Clinton's actions \"horrific\". On October 9 Broaddrick appeared on a panel with Trump, Paula Jones, and Kathleen Willey (a fourth woman at the panel, Kathy Shelton, had an unrelated grievance against Hillary Clinton) an hour before the second debate between Trump and Clinton in the general election portion of the United States presidential election debates, 2016. Broaddrick and the others were also in the audience during the debate, as was Bill Clinton, although debate organizers kept them in separate areas. The Trump campaign said it had paid for Broaddrick's travel to the debate.\n\nIn 2017, in the wake of Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse allegations, Broaddrick criticized 1990s Bill Clinton paramour Monica Lewinsky for aligning herself with the #MeToo movement, saying, \"I have always felt sad for you, but where were you when we needed you?\" Broaddrick added, \"I always felt she was a victim. I only wish she had spoken up in '99 when I was going thru so much persecution after my interview on \"NBC Dateline\".\"\n\nOnce again media attention focused on the allegations against Clinton, including those from Broaddrick. Matthews wrote that \"America's ongoing national reckoning with sexual assault and sexual harassment by powerful men now has liberals and Democrats reconsidering the legacy of one of party's most important figures of the past quarter-century: President Bill Clinton.\"\n\nCaitlin Flanagan of \"The Atlantic\" wrote \"Yet let us not forget the sex crimes of which the younger, stronger Bill Clinton was very credibly accused in the 1990s. Juanita Broaddrick reported that ...\" before recapping the case. During an NPR interview Flanagan said, \"And so there were a series of women throughout the course of his presidency who came forward with accounts of things they said he did to them which really mirror the kinds of things we're looking at now in the very worst of the cases. Juanita Broaddrick, most prominently, said that he raped her very violently in a way that is quite like the Harvey Weinstein accusations in terms of the hotel room and the suddenness and the bleak horror of it all.\"\n\nGoldberg wrote an op-ed in the \"New York Times\" entitled \"I Believe Juanita\", where she said, \"In this #MeToo moment, when we're reassessing decades of male misbehavior and turning open secrets into exposes, we should look clearly at the credible evidence that Juanita Broaddrick told the truth when she accused Clinton of raping her. But revisiting the Clinton scandals in light of today's politics is complicated as well as painful.\"\n\nFollowing the allegations made against Alabama senate candidate Roy Moore, Broaddrick said, \"All victims matter. It doesn't matter if you're a Democrat or a Republican ... We all have the right to be believed.\"\n\nIn January 2018 Broaddrick self-published a memoir, co-authored by Nick Lulli, with the title \"You'd Better Put Some Ice On That: How I Survived Being Raped By Bill Clinton\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13038570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13038570", "title": "Justin Herman Plaza", "text": "Justin Herman Plaza\n\nEmbarcadero Plaza, previously known as Justin Herman Plaza from its opening in 1972 until 2017, is a plaza near the intersection of Market and Embarcadero in San Francisco's Financial District, in the U.S. state of California. It is owned by Boston Properties, who acquired the neighboring Embarcadero Center office, hotel, and retail complex in 1998.\n\nThe design of Embarcadero Plaza is credited to Don Carter (principal-in-charge) with help from Mario J. Ciampi and John Bolles. The original concept was devised by Lawrence Halprin, who described five distinct districts of Market Street in the 1962 report \"What to do About Market Street\" starting at the Embarcadero and ending at Van Ness. In retrospect, Halprin's vision for Market was described as a \"pedestrian-oriented series of linked civic spaces\" which were later realized as the open spaces running from Embarcadero Plaza (in the northeast) to UN Plaza in the southwest. Halprin described an early concept for what he called Ferry Building Park in the 1962 \"Market Street\" report, proposing to bring San Francisco Bay and the original harbor closer to Market, as \"the [Embarcadero] Freeway and the Ferry building have created an impenetrable barrier, at street level, to one of San Francisco's most priceless assets – its marine setting\" and offering ways to minimize the visual and aural impact of the double-decked freeway. \nThe controversial \"Vaillancourt Fountain\" dominates the northeast end of the plaza. The large plaza could accommodate large crowds, and the roaring fountain was designed to drown out noise from the Embarcadero Freeway, which was completed in 1959 and ran along the east side of the plaza from its opening in 1972 until the freeway was torn down in 1991. \"La Chiffonnière\" is also installed in the plaza, closer to Market.\n\nA bocce ball court was built using private donations in 2010.\n\nDuring the debate over changing the name, \"San Francisco Chronicle\" urban spaces critic John King called it \"a stark concrete landscape\" and added \"there's no earthly reason you would want to be there.\" In an earlier article published just after Halprin's death in 2009, King noted that Embarcadero Plaza was \"oversize and stiff, unable to adjust to the changing urban scene on all sides.\"\n\nThe plaza, located at the eastern end of Market Street, opened in 1972. It was originally named for M. Justin Herman, executive director of the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency from 1959 to 1971.\n\nIn 2017, County Supervisor Aaron Peskin introduced a resolution to rename the site Embarcadero Plaza, citing Herman's role in displacing poor and minority residents from the Western Addition, Fillmore, Chinatown, and South of Market neighborhoods while presiding over the San Francisco Redevelopment Agency. The San Francisco Board of Supervisors passed the resolution unanimously on September 19, 2017. The name Embarcadero Plaza will be temporary until a new official name can be decided upon. The Board's resolution is nonbinding, as the authority to change the name rests with the San Francisco Recreation and Park Commission. Peskin stated he had received an unsolicited text from the owner, Boston Properties, which said they would cover the cost of replacing the plaque bearing Herman's name.\n\nThe Recreation & Parks Commission voted 4–2 to remove Justin Herman's name on November 16, 2017. An earlier vote in October ended in a 3–3 tie after one of the commissioners (who had favored removal of the name) left the meeting before the vote was held. David Johnson, a photographer who documented life in the Western Addition prior to SFRA's redevelopment, is a leading candidate for the renaming of the plaza.\n\nThe plaza is frequented by nearby office workers on lunch break and by families with small children. Free daytime concerts occur frequently in the summer, and an ice skating rink is set up for winter months. In 1987, during The Joshua Tree Tour, U2 held a free concert in Justin Herman Plaza to \"Save the Yuppies\" following the Black Monday financial crisis in October. During the finale of the impromptu concert, Bono spray-painted graffiti on \"Vaillancourt Fountain\", for which he was fined.\nDuring the early 1990s, the plaza was better known as EMB, one of the world's premier street skateboarding sites. Formal athletic ceremonies and rallies have also occurred in the plaza, including the retirement of Joe Montana (1995), attended by an estimated 25,000 people; the commemoration of Barry Bonds becoming the all-time home run leader (2007); and as the site of Super Bowl City, a \"fan village\" for attendees of Super Bowl 50 (2016) at Levi's Stadium in distant Santa Clara. Because of its size, the plaza is also frequently used for political rallies, including the Occupy San Francisco protest which took over the plaza for several months in 2011.\n\nThe monthly Critical Mass bicycle rides have started from the plaza since September 1992. Since 2006, on Valentine's Day, the plaza is the site of the Great San Francisco Pillow Fight, an unsponsored annual pillow fight flash mob.\n\n"}
{"id": "27774511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27774511", "title": "Lakes District Technocity", "text": "Lakes District Technocity\n\nThe Lakes District Technocity(established in 2004) is a science park located on the campus of Süleyman Demirel University. The technocity is a full member of International Association of Science Parks. The science park occupies 112000 squaremeters area.\n\nThe activities of the technocity include Energy and Renewable Energy, Internet Technology and Services / E-Business, Plasma Technology, and Environment Technologies. \n\nAs of 2010, 57% of firms on the tecnocity involved in the area of computer software industry.\n\nThe technocity made its first export(plasma sensors to Saudi Arabia) in 2008.\n\nThe following entities are shareholders of the park:\n\n"}
{"id": "25407554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25407554", "title": "Lifeshape", "text": "Lifeshape\n\nLifeshape is a nonprofit organization founded by John and Trudy Cathy White, daughter of Chick-fil-A founder S. Truett Cathy. Lifeshape was launched in 2003. The nonprofit exists to glorify God by breaking the cycle of spiritual poverty. In addition to its own ministry, Lifeshape funds Lifeshape Brasil, and Impact 360 Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "45515325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45515325", "title": "List of lingerie brands", "text": "List of lingerie brands\n\nThis is a list of notable lingerie brands and manufacturers. This list catalogues brands known primarily for their lingerie or underwear, and not fashion or clothing in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "15540507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15540507", "title": "MERMEC", "text": "MERMEC\n\nMERMEC S.p.A is an Italian company focused on rail inspection and diagnostics (both systems and vehicles), railway signalling, asset management software, diagnostic and professional services for the railway industry. Today, MERMEC is part of the MERMEC Group, an international holding company with more than 300 employees worldwide whose subsidiaries include UK based MERMEC UK, USA based MERMEC Inc., Italy based Tecnogamma S.p.A and France based MERMEC France.\n\nPrior to becoming a joint-stock company in 1988, MER MEC was known as Meridional Meccanica, which began in the 1960s. Meridional Meccanica began making railway maintenance vehicles in the early 1980s and after incorporating focused all of its attention to the railway market.\n\nIn the early 1990s MER MEC, in cooperation with the main Italian research institutes, developed an opto-electronic system for the automatic inspection of railway infrastructure conditions. The 1990s also saw the prototype of the ROGER vehicle which is an acronym for \"Rilievo Ottico Geometria Rotaia\", Italian for optical rail geometry control. In 1997 MER MEC produced the ROGER 1000, a self-propelled vehicle for rail track and overhead line inspection.\n\nToday, MER MEC exports its products worldwide, in particular to Australia, Brazil, Chile, China, France, Greece, Norway, Peru, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Syria, Taiwan,Turkey, USA.\n\nMER MEC has been awarded the following certifications: UNI EN ISO 9001; UNI EN ISO 14001:2004; IRIS: 2006 (International Railway Industry Standards); SA8000: 2001\n\nMER MEC is an authorized research laboratory of the Italian Ministry of University and Research and a member of the following organizations: UNIFE; CEN - the European Committee for Standardization.\nSince 2010 MERMEC Group is part of the UNISIG Consortium\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39459977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39459977", "title": "Manfredi Lefebvre d'Ovidio", "text": "Manfredi Lefebvre d'Ovidio\n\nManfredi Lefebvre d'Ovidio (born 30 April 1953) is an Italian-born Monegasque billionaire businessman. He is the chairman and former owner of Silversea Cruises, a company founded by his father. In June 2018, he sold two-thirds of the company to Royal Caribbean for US$1 billion, retaining a one-third stake in the company.\n\nLefebvre d'Ovidio grew up in Rome, one of three children born into an Italian family. The son of Antonio Lefebvre d'Ovidio, legal professor and Italian jurist, and Eugenia Beck, of a German family, he was involved in a variety of family businesses from an early age and today is chairman of luxury cruise line, Silversea Cruises.\n\nHe attended law school at Sapienza University of Rome but did not complete his studies.\n\nHis father's background in maritime law, among other industrial interests, led to the family’s involvement in shipping and ultimately, in the cruise industry. In 1988 they purchased control of Sitmar Cruises from the Vlasov family and in 1989, merged it with P&O's Princess Cruises unit. Silversea Cruises was founded in 1994 by his father with two ships purpose-built for the line, the Silver Cloud and the Silver Wind. Lefebvre d'Ovidio led Silversea through his board position before being named Chairman in 2001. By that time, it added two more vessels (Silver Whisper and Silver Shadow) making it a four ship fleet.\n\nAs of 2017 Silversea operates nine vessels on worldwide itineraries that call in all seven continents. It has been recognized as one of the World's best with multiple awards from Condé Nast Traveler and Travel + Leisure magazines as well as other travel publications and organizations.\n\nHe was the sole owner of Silversea, until June 2018, when Royal Caribbean agreed to pay about US$1 billion for a two-third stake in the company. In August 2018, \"Bloomberg\" assessed Lefebvre d'Ovidio as a billionaire.\n\nHe resides in Monaco, where Silversea is headquartered. He has a daughter, Costanza.\n\nLefebvre d'Ovidio was a key driver of the unification of the European cruise industry as chairman of the European Cruise Council (ECC) since 2010. He led the merger of that association with the Cruise Lines International Association (CLIA) of which he has served on the board of directors since 2013. He remains on the board of CLIA Global and serves as chairman of CLIA Europe. He is also active in promoting international tourism efforts as the vice chairman of the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC), in charge for Europe and a member of the World Economic Forum (WEF).\n"}
{"id": "35480191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35480191", "title": "Michael Moe Myint", "text": "Michael Moe Myint\n\nMichael Moe Myint () is a Burmese business tycoon, who founded and runs 2 major companies in the country's petroleum industry, Myint & Associates, a service provider and MPRL E&P, a gas extraction company.\n\nHe was educated at the Methodist English High School (now Dagon1 High School) in Yangon, then at International School Bangkok, University of Rangoon and Marshall University, before returning to Burma. From 1974 to 1987, he served as a pilot for the state-owned Myanma Airways, and served as the personal pilot of Ne Win.\n\nTwo years later, in 1989, he founded Myint & Associates. In 1996, he established his own oil exploration and excavation company, Myanmar Petroleum Resources Limited (MPRL).\n\nHis two sons, Sithu Moe Myint and Phone Kyaw Moe Myint, both studied at the Colorado School of Mines, and work for multinational oil firms. His father worked as geologist for Shell.\n"}
{"id": "38744628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38744628", "title": "Moore Stephens", "text": "Moore Stephens\n\nMoore Stephens International Limited is a global accountancy and advisory network of independent firms with its headquarters in London.\n\nMoore Stephens was founded as Moore, Partridge & Co in 1907. It became Moore & Co in 1914 and then Moore, Stephens & Co in 1918. In 1986 it established itself with its present name.\n\nSince Moore Stephens London was founded a century ago, Moore Stephens International Limited has grown to be one of the largest international accounting and consulting groups worldwide. Today the network comprises 650 offices in 106 countries throughout the world, incorporating 30,168 people and with fees of more than US$2.909 billion.\n\nManaging audits and dealing with multi-jurisdictional tax matters of multi-national operations is the core of their business. The scope of their global client management extends, therefore, beyond the delivery of compliance services to advising on international business structures and tax planning to minimise tax liabilities.\n\nThe member firms' services include accounting, auditing, shipping consulting, financial advisory and actuarial.\n\n"}
{"id": "43229063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43229063", "title": "Nasra Agil", "text": "Nasra Agil\n\nNasra Agil (; ) is a Somali-Canadian civil engineer and entrepreneur. She has been involved in a variety of community service programmes and initiative, being awarded The Duke of Edinburgh's International Award - Canada.\n\nAgil was born in Somalia. She and her family later moved to Canada. As a teenager, Agil helped launch various community service initiatives. She organized youth programs, survival skills workshops, educational plays and sporting activities. For her tertiary education, Agil studied civil engineering at Ryerson University in Toronto. She graduated from the institution with Honours in 2005, earning a Bachelor of Engineering degree. Nasra graduated at the top of her class at Ryerson University and is recorded as one of the first known women of Somali descent to earn an engineering degree in Canada. She also received the prestigious Golden Key International Honour Society Award for academic excellence.\n\nAgil began her civil engineering career as a road inspector for the Transportation Services of the Toronto Municipality. After a two-year period, she moved to Dubai, United Arab Emirates, which had evolved into one of the main global centers for major real estate development. In 2007, Agil joined Cansult, a Canadian engineering firm headquartered in Dubai and one of the largest industry operators in the Middle East. She later served as an advisor to Nakheel, the biggest real estate developer in the UAE. She was also a Senior Traffic Engineer for the Dubai Municipality's Roads Authority.\n\nIn 2012, Agil returned to Somalia to contribute to the local post-conflict reconstruction process. She subsequently opened the country's first dollar store.\n\nIn recognition of her societal work, Agil was presented The Duke of Edinburgh's International Award - Canada by the Governor General of Canada. She also received various academic awards for her scholastic achievements while still an honours student, including the Golden Key International Honour Society Award.\n"}
{"id": "437319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=437319", "title": "Ortigas Center", "text": "Ortigas Center\n\nOrtigas Center is a central business district located within the joint boundaries of Pasig, Mandaluyong and Quezon City, within the Metro Manila region in the Philippines. With an area of more than , it is Metro Manila's second most important business district after the Makati CBD. It is governed by Ortigas Center Association, Inc.\n\nOrtigas Center is home to many shopping malls, office and condominium skyscrapers, nightlife bars, restaurants and other building complexes. These include the St. Francis Square, the Asian Development Bank compound, the Oakwood Premier serviced apartments and a Shangri-La hotel. It is also the headquarters of San Miguel Corporation, Jollibee Foods Corporation, the Philippine branch of HSBC and Robinsons Galleria. Also present in the area are Philippine offices of prominent engineering firms such as Parsons Brinckerhoff, Sinclair Knight Merz, and WSP Group.\n\nIt also home to the Banco de Oro main office owned by mall tycoon Henry Sy, Sr., as is the SM Megamall he owns—one of the largest malls in the nation—along EDSA. Also located near the Ortigas Center is The Medical City, one of the three hospitals in the nation accredited by the Joint Commission on International Accreditation. Ortigas Center is surrounded by the streets of Ortigas Avenue to the north, EDSA to the west, Meralco Avenue to the east, and Shaw Boulevard to the south.\n\nOrtigas Center began as the 4,033-hectare \"Hacienda de Mandaloyon\", an estate from the Augustinian Order. In the following years, there were several changes of partners. Then, on July 10, 1931, the company was incorporated “Ortigas, Madrigal y cia., S. en C.” as a limited partnership by shares (). The parties to the partnership were Francisco Ortigas (Don Paco), Vicente Madrigal, B.C.M. Johnston, Fulgencio Borromeo, Clyde A. Dewitt and Manuel L. Quezon.\n\nWhen Ortigas & Company acquired the estate, it was a virtual wasteland. The vision of the management, headed by Atty. Francisco Ortigas Jr., who was President and Chairman at that time, turned it into a progressive industrial, commercial and residential urban complex.\n\nThe northern portion of the area is part of Quezon City. It is situated south of Ugong Norte. The EDSA Shrine and Robinsons Galleria is situated here. Robinsons Galleria is a mixed-use complex composed of two high-rise office towers namely the Galleria Corporate Center and the Robinsons Equitable Tower, the Holiday Inn Manila Ortigas and Crowne Plaza Manila Galleria, the Galleria Regency and a 5-level shopping mall. Before Robinsons Galleria,This mall used to be an open land owned by SSS within Ortigas Center. In 1986, they used the land for the People Power Revolution. In 1987, John Gokongwei bought the large portion of the land from SSS. It started construction on mid-1988 and finished on late-1989. The mall opened in 1990 being the first mall of Robinsons Malls. Buildings like the UnionBank Plaza, Marco Polo Ortigas Manila, The Robinsons Cyberscape are located here, as well as the Famous EDSA Shrine.\n\nThe western portion of Ortigas Center is part of Mandaluyong City. It is in the eastern side of Barangay Wack-Wack Greenhills. Mandaluyong is known for being the \"Shopping Capital of the Philippines\" because it is home to a cluster of shopping centers which stand side by side. This is where most of the shopping malls in the area located like SM Megamall, The Podium, Shangri-la Plaza Mall and St. Francis Square Mall. It is also proximity to nearby Robinsons Cybergate Center. The Asian Development Bank Headquarters, The Edsa Shangri-La, Manila, The One Shangri-La Place Towers, The St. Francis Shangri-La Place and The BDO Corporate Center are also located here.\nThe eastern portion is part of Pasig and is where most of the Ortigas Center's skyscrapers are located. The whole place is politically known as Barangay San Antonio. It is where most of Pasig's financial resources are primarily concentrated. The barangay of San Antonio has the largest income in Pasig, second only to San Lorenzo Village of Makati as the largest single income-generated government unit in the Philippines. Buildings like The Benpres Building, One Corporate Centre, One San Miguel Avenue, Orient Square, Wynsum Corporate Plaza, as well as the Department of Education (Philippines) Headquarters, The Tektite Towers, houses the former trading floor of the Philippine Stock Exchange, and The Capitol Commons are located here.\n\nAmong the universities and colleges situated within Ortigas are St. Paul College Pasig, University of Asia and the Pacific, and the Saint Pedro Poveda College. The Ateneo School of Medicine and Public Health of the Ateneo de Manila University is also located within the financial center. Lourdes School of Mandaluyong is among the secondary schools within Ortigas. The MFI Foundation also hosts a vocational school in the financial center.\n\n"}
{"id": "2958001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2958001", "title": "Page-Vawter House", "text": "Page-Vawter House\n\nPage-Vawter House in the town of Ansted in Fayette County, West Virginia was built in 1889-90 by company carpenters of the Gauley Mountain Coal Company for the family of William Nelson Page, who was company president. The palatial white Victorian mansion is located on a knoll in the middle of town. William and Emma (née Gilham) Page raised their four children there, attended by a staff of 8 servants.\n\nArchitect William Minter designed the house in a Gothic style. It has 15 regular rooms, plus a butler's pantry and a dressing room. There are 11 fireplaces with hand-carved wooden mantels; most are in different styles. Even the doors have ornately decorated hinges. The exterior features 52 8-foot-tall windows built by company carpenters on a knoll in the middle of town.\nAccording to author and railroad historian H. Reid in his book \"The Virginian Railway\" (Kalmbach, 1961), it was in this mansion that Page developed the plans for the coal-hauling Virginian Railway, which was financed by industrialist Henry Huddleston Rogers and became the \"Richest Little Railroad in the World\" after its completion in 1909. The nearby railroad town of Page was named for him.\n\nThe mansion was later occupied by several generation of the Vawter family. In the 21st century, it still stands as evidence of the once-thriving coal business.\n\nThe Page-Vawter House was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3457634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3457634", "title": "Peter Buffett", "text": "Peter Buffett\n\nPeter Andrew Buffett (born May 4, 1958) is an American musician, composer, author and philanthropist. With an acclaimed career that spans more than 30 years, Peter is an Emmy Award winner, New York Times best-selling author and co-chair of the NoVo Foundation. He is the youngest son of billionaire investor Warren Buffett.\n\nBuffett began his musical career in the early part of the 1980s in San Francisco. There, he recorded and produced albums for local talent. He also was hired by ad agencies to compose commercials and logos - including MTV and CNN, both of which were new to cable television at the time.\n\nNarada Productions, a new-age music recording company, signed Buffett to a recording contract. In 1987, Buffett debuted with Narada, releasing an album entitled \"The Waiting\". His second album, \"One by One\", was inspired by Evan S. Connell's book \"Son of the Morning Star\". In 1989, Buffett moved to Milwaukee, home of Narada Productions and closer to his childhood home in Omaha, Nebraska. Buffett would release two more albums with Narada: \"Lost Frontier\" and \"Yonnondio\".\n\nWhile with Narada, Buffett had his first major success scoring the \"Fire Dance\" scene in the film \"Dances with Wolves\". The film score, composed by John Barry, won the Academy Award for Best Original Score. Barry would later invite Buffett to collaborate with him again, this time at the Abbey Road Studios in London. Buffett contributed the American Indian soundscapes to the film as well as composed two songs for the soundtrack of \"The Scarlet Letter\".\n\nAfter the release of \"Yonnondio\", Buffett signed with Epic Records. In 1994, he released his soundtrack for the CBS miniseries \"500 Nations\", which was produced by Kevin Costner. Buffett also met Chief Hawk Pop while scoring the series.\n\nIn 1996, Buffett produced \"Star of Wonder\", a Christmas CD featuring Celtic harpist Kim Robertson and arranger Eric Segnitz. Buffett then signed with Hollywood Records, which released his album \"Spirit Dance\" in 1997.\n\nIn 1998, he entered the pop music realm with the release of \"Comet9<nowiki>'</nowiki>\"s \"Like Mercury\" on Milwaukee-based independent label \"Don't Records\", with Buffett producing, writing and playing multi-instrumentalist. Co-writer and guitarist Tom Nelson and vocalist Susan Zielke completed the studio trio, with Citizen King members D. J. Brooks and Malcolm Michiles guesting on drums and turntables, respectively. The live band added bassist Josh Warner to the lineup.\n\nIn 1999, Buffett's score for the documentary \"Wisconsin: An American Portrait\" won the Emmy for Best Soundtrack.\n\nAlso in 1999, Buffett's \"Spirit – A Journey in Dance Drums and Song\" aired on PBS as a highly successful pledge break special. Combining modern and American Indian dancers with Director and Choreographer Wayne Cilento, \"Spirit\" went on to tour through the end of 1999. In 2004, Buffett worked with Jody Ripplinger and Frank Anderson to create \"Spirit –The Seventh Fir\"e; an updated version of his earlier show. It was premiered on the National Mall during the opening of the Smithsonian National Museum of the American Indian in its 800-seat theater tent.\n\nIn 2006, Buffett released his first vocal album, \"Gold Star\". Over the course of the next two years, he released two more albums, \"Staring at the Sun\" (2007) and \"Imaginary Kingdom\" (2008) on his own label BeSide Records.\n\nIn 2009, Buffett began to release exclusive singles through his social networking community on Ning. He has released over 25 singles since then, including a compilation album of fifteen of the songs. The collection, released initially as a USB album, was titled \"Running Blind\" (2011) and contained an innovative interactive environment.\n\nDuring this time he collaborated twice with Grammy-nominated recording artist Akon and once with Grammy-winning artist Angélique Kidjo on human rights inspired songs. One Akon collaboration, titled “Blood Into Gold,” debuted at a special event at the UN General Assembly in March 2009 that focused on human trafficking.\n\nIn 2013, Peter released \"Already Flown\" which was the inspiration behind his \"New York Times\" op-ed piece, \"The Charitable-Industrial Complex\". The piece sparked a lively debate on the role of philanthropy.\n\nPeter, along with cellist Michael Kott, is currently touring around the world in support of his \"Life Is What You Make It: A Concert & Conversation with Peter Buffett\" performance. Buffett continues to visit numerous university campuses, community foundations and other organizations using his own life story and experiences as illustration. He discusses how important it is for each person to define his or her own path, regardless of their wealth or background, and ultimately conveys that it’s one’s values — and what we are able to give back to society — that shape and define us as individuals.\n\nIn May 2010, his book, \"Life Is What You Make It: Find Your Own Path to Fulfillment\", was published with Random House/Crown Publishing. The book was praised by Ted Turner, former President Bill Clinton, Bill and Melinda Gates, and Gloria Steinem, among others. It has sold over half a million copies worldwide, peaking at number four on The New York Times Best Sellers List. It has been available in over fifteen languages. Buffett appeared on NPR, as well as The Today Show and CBS Sunday Morning with his father, to discuss the book.\n\nIn 2013, Buffett began contributing essays to the \"Huffington Post\" Impact blog.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Buffett was the sound engineer on three albums by Pauline Anna Strom, which included \"Plot Zero\".\n\nPeter Buffett was born in Omaha, Nebraska, and is the youngest child of investor Warren Buffett and Susan Thompson Buffett. He has two siblings: sister Susie and brother Howard. Buffett graduated from Omaha Central High School and attended Stanford University.\n\nHe was married to his first wife, Mary Buffett, for 12 years before they divorced in 1993. Mary's twin daughters from a previous relationship, Erica and Nicole, were four years old at the time of their wedding. Subsequently, Peter Buffett legally adopted the girls. He married Jennifer Buffett in June 1996.\n\nPeter is the co-chairman of the NoVo Foundation; an organization dedicated to catalyzing a transformation in global society, moving from a culture of domination and exploitation to one of equality and partnership. Alongside his wife Jennifer, the organization supports the development of capacities in people — individually and collectively — to help create a caring and balanced world. They envision a world that operates on the principles of mutual respect, collaboration, and civic participation, thereby reversing the old paradigm predicated on hierarchy, violence, and the subordination of girls and women.\n\nIn a 2013 New York Times op-ed and radio podcast, \"The Charitable-Industrial Complex\", Peter Buffett uses the terms \"philanthropic colonialism\" and \"conscience laundering,\" and describes his insights into \"searching for answers with their right hand to problems that others in the room have created with their left\" rather than systemic change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11239316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11239316", "title": "Rafael Termes", "text": "Rafael Termes\n\nDr. Rafael Termes i Carreró (December 5, 1918 - August 25, 2005) was born in Sitges, Barcelona. Although he graduated as an Industrial Engineer, he choose a career in finance and banking. Termes was founder and teacher of the IESE Business School and also a director of IESE's Madrid campus since 1997, position that ceased in June 2000, to become honorary president of the IESE in Madrid. He was a member of the Royal Academy of Moral and Political Sciences, and of the Academy of Economics and Finance and a member of Opus Dei.\n\nBetween 1951 and 1954 he set up the Crèdit Andorrà, and he acted as Delegate Advisor from 1955 to 1965, and Advisor from 1965 to 1970. In 1955 he was appointed Regional Advisor to the Spanish Popular Bank, where he worked until named Vice-President of the Regional Council in Barcelona in 1960.\n\nHe became a member of the Administrative Board of the Spanish Popular Bank in 1964, and, later that year, was instrumental in creating a new branch - the European Business Bank. In 1965, he helped set up the Spanish Analysts' Investment Institute, the board of which he presided over until 1973 when he was named Honorary President. He became Delegate Advisor to the Spanish Popular Bank in 1966. From 1966 to 1977, he was Delegate Advisor to the Spanish Bank Association (AEB), before serving as President from 1977 until 1990, when he decided not to run for re-election. For three years, from 1970 to 1973, he represented Spain in the EFFAS - European Federation of Financial Analysts' Societies .\n\nEver a staunch defender of human liberty and of a free market as the means to attain improved social order, Rafael Termes has published, among other works: El poder creador del riesgo (1986); Del estatismo a la libertad. Perspectiva de los países del Este (1990); Desde la banca. Tres décadas de la vida económica española (1991); Antropología del capitalismo: un debate abierto abierto (1992); Las causas del paro (1995); and Desde la libertad (1997).\n\n"}
{"id": "45626839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45626839", "title": "Robert Dahlstrom", "text": "Robert Dahlstrom\n\nRobert F. Dahlstrom (born c. 1958) is an American organizational theorist and Seibert Professor at Miami University, Department of Marketing. known for his work on international marketing.\n\nDahlstrom obtained his MA at Xavier University in 1980, and his PhD in marketing at the University of Cincinnati in 1990.\n\nDahlstrom started his academic career at the University of Kentucky in 1990, where he became Bloomfield Professor of Marketing at Gatton College of Business & Economics. He founded and directed its Douglas K. Von Allmen Center for Green Marketing, which aims \"to expand the knowledge of green marketing practices among business owners, and to contribute to scholarly research on green marketing and sustainability.\" From 2000 to 2014 Dahlstrom was Professor at the BI Norwegian Business School, and since 2011 he is Joseph C. Seibert Professor of Marketing at the Department of Marketing of Miami University Farmer School of Business. He also chairs the Department of Marketing.\n\n\nArticles, a selection:\n\n"}
{"id": "30816318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30816318", "title": "Tejo Power Station (history)", "text": "Tejo Power Station (history)\n\nThe history of the Tejo Power Station, operating from 1908 to 1975 in the Belém district of Lisbon, Portugal. \n\nAs the latter 19th century advanced, Lisbon's rate of urbanisation and electricity consumption was outgrowing existing power generation stations. The two power stations that supplied the city with electricity were the \"Avenida Power Station\" (1889) and the \"Boavista Power Station\" (1903). Their names were intimately connected to their locations. It was for this same reason that during the Tejo Power Station's initial stages, toponymy remained in use and it was originally named the \"Junqueira Power Station\", being located in the Junqueira district. Despite everything, this name didn’t last long since, once construction was concluded, official documents and the plant's facade took on the name of the Tagus River (Rio Tejo) it was built on, as the Tejo Power Station.\n\nThe small power plants that existed in the capital (Avenida and Boavista Power Stations) became obsolete due to the increasing demand for electric power. Furthermore, they were located in heavily urbanised neighbourhoods, thereby exerting a strong environmental impact on the residents and presenting a lack of space for the more than predictable expansions that the new electricity industry was going to require.\nFor these reasons, at the beginning of 1908, the company that held the concession to produce and distribute electric power in Lisbon, the \"Companhias Reunidas de Gás e Electricidade\" (CRGE - United Gas and Electric Companies) undertook construction of a new thermoelectric power station in Lisbon. In the operating license, they asked for permission to install a “new power generating station”, located in a manufacturing district that went from the Navy Dockyard to Pedrouços beach, in the western part of the city.\n\nThe chosen location was situated halfway between the Belém Palace and the Junqueira National Rope Factory, which still exist today. Thus, after raising the capital to finance the new thermoelectric power station, in March 1908 construction began on the plant that would provide Lisbon and the surrounding area with electricity for more than six decades.\n\nThe final technical project was created by engineer Lucien Neu, who made the most of all the usable space by placing the turbines in the central area and the boilers on either side. This project underwent several alterations, with the construction work extending for longer than had initially been programmed. The company responsible for constructing the buildings was Vieillard & Touzet, who maintained approximately 50 workers on the site.\nIn the summer of 1909, the Tejo Power Station was officially inaugurated despite undergoing important alterations in its interior until 1910, such as the acquisition of new turbo-alternators or the expansion of the boiler room, which involved building a new 36 meter-high chimney in the shape of an inverted pyramidal stem.\n\nFrom its construction up to 1912, the Junqueira Power Station acquired new machinery to increase its production. In 1908 it started off with two alternators from the Boavista Power Station, each with a 1 MW output, and six Delaunay – Belleville boilers. The 1910 expansion involved the installation of three new Brown Boveri & Cª. turbo-alternators that raised the total output to 7.75 MW, as well as four boilers at a first stage, later joined by five more boilers with greater vaporisation capacity.\nThus, in 1912, when all this equipment was in place, the original Tejo Power Station had fifteen small Belleville boilers and five generating sets that supplied the city of Lisbon's electric grid.\n\nRegarding the exterior, the building that accommodated this extensive set of machinery displayed an architectural style typical of the small power stations at the end of the 19th century, the then called “electricity factories”. Its plan was of a longitudinal nave covered on two sides, and three transversally adjacent pavilions on the western side. Between them, two slim chimneys doubled the height of the plant's body and “overlooked” the area. The North-South facades displayed the inscription \"1909 / Cªs Reunidas Gás e Electricidade / Estação Eléctrica Central Tejo\" (United Gas and Electric Companies / Tejo Electric Power Station).\n\nThis original Tejo Power Station was planned to operate for six years (1908–1914) until the CRGE managed the necessary means to build a larger plant with greater capacity. However, due to the outbreak of World War I in that final year, the Tejo Power Station's original phase was extended and remained operational until 1921. The production and distribution of electricity began to take place under very precarious conditions since, among other aspects, the fuels used were of poor quality, and as a consequence the boilers suffered constant breakdowns, which led to a significant reduction in the rate of expansion and development of electricity in the city.\n\nDespite these setbacks, construction work on the low pressure boiler building continued, and at the end of 1916 the plant started receiving steam from the first two low pressure boilers installed in the new building that was still under construction but nonetheless guaranteed the necessary conditions to reinforce the supply to the existing generating sets.\n\nIn 1921, once the Low Pressure building was constructed and made fully operational, the original Tejo Power Station was deactivated and dismantled, with a set of workshops and warehouses taking its place. Some years later, in 1938, the need to build a new High Pressure boiler building led to the demolition of the naves from the station's original phase, leaving no trace behind.\n\nThe need to build a new power station to satisfy the growing demand for electricity, and the precarious conditions under which the original Tejo Power Station was operating, led in 1914 to the construction of new buildings and the installation of more efficient machinery. This was a time of growth and modernisation that only ended with the installation of the 15th and final boiler in 1951.\n\nGenerally speaking, there were two main construction periods:\n\nWith the construction of the low pressure boiler building and the new machinery room, the Tejo Power Station began to consolidate itself both in terms of production and on an architectural level, with the use of brick on the visible facades of the entire industrial complex.\n\nOnce again, it is possible to separate this low pressure period into three construction phases:\n\nConstruction on the low pressure and machinery buildings began in 1914. The project included several manufacturing bodies: two longitudinal naves covered on both sides, each one to accommodate six Babcock & Wilcox low pressure boilers; one machinery room with a capacity for two German AEG 8MW turbo-alternators; as well as a smaller control and substation building. Construction began from north to south and east to west, and aside from the above, the possibility of later expanding on the southern side to the edge of the Tagus river was also immediately plotted.\n\nShortly after beginning the construction work, World War I broke out, causing delays in established deadlines and problems receiving the two turbo-alternators ordered from Germany, which remained detained until the end of the conflict. Nonetheless, in 1916 the first two low pressure boilers were installed (which in the project were assigned numbers 5 and 6) in order to supply the generators from the original power station.\n\nDuring the two years that followed, two new boilers were installed (numbers 3 and 4) which, along with 5 and 6, exceeded the output that the old generators from the original Tejo Power Station could withstand. The CRGE concluded that it was necessary that another turbo-alternator be purchased to add to the two generators ordered years before from the German supplier and which were still held up, thus moving forward with the construction of one part of the machinery room to accommodate this new generator. In 1919, the new Swiss Escher Wyss & Cie 7500 kW turbo-alternator began operating.\n\nThe next year, the remaining boilers (numbers 1 and 2) were installed, and with the war over, the two German AEG sets were finally received, beginning operation in 1921. With the permanent installation of these 6 boilers and three generating sets, production stabilised and it was possible to dismantle the outdated equipment from the Junqueira Power Station.\n\nGradually, due to the increase in consumption, it was once again necessary to carry out new and important work on the power station in order to expand and complete the low pressure boiler room. The program created by the CRGE consisted in expanding one industrial nave that would accommodate three new low pressure boilers and purchasing one new generating set.\n\nThus, throughout 1922 a study was conducted regarding the installation of boilers number 7 and 9, and the possibility of these operating with pulverised coal, which ended up proving unsuccessful, since in boiler number 6 the tests carried out to implement this process produced unsatisfactory results. Nonetheless, pulverised coal would still be used in boiler number 11.\n\nThe “new boiler room”, as it was called, grew southward, toward the Tagus River, with the facade facing the river and remaining unfinished, temporarily closed off with a sheet of zinc and a metallic structure imitating the bay windows on the opposite side. This because a third and final expansion was anticipated for this low pressure boiler room. Boilers 7 and 9, both Babcock & Wilcox, were the first to be installed in this new space in 1924 and 1925 respectively. The third, boiler 11 – a Humboldt – was installed in 1928; since it used pulverised coal, it had its own coal mill.\n\nThe machinery room didn’t undergo any change in size but inside, an 8MW generating set – number 4, a Stal-Asea – was installed in 1925. The channels and two siphons on the cooling system's new docks were also built, which carried water from the river to the power station's interior.\n\nIt was in the third building phase of the Tejo Power Station's first period that construction on the industrial naves was completed, both on the boiler rooms and machinery room. In 1928, the same year boiler 11 was installed, it was decided to go ahead with the purchase of the final two low pressure boilers, numbers 8 and 10, from the most frequent supplier, Babcock & Wilcox, due to the delays on the installation of the Humboldt boiler. However, their permanent installation was only concluded at the end of 1930.\n\nThe new manufacturing body that accommodated them maintained the same aesthetic lines as the previous structures, although with greater dimensions. For this, the temporary zinc sheet facade was removed and the building was built toward the river, acquiring the facade that remains today.\n\nRegarding the machinery room, it was also necessary to pull down the existing southern facade in order to expand the plant's area toward the river, thus aligning it with the boiler room in order to allow the installation of the new and final Escher Wyss/Thompson generating set (which, following the sequence used until then, was assigned the number 5), as well as creating a space on the lower floor for unloading and managing turbines, alternators and other material. The reinforcement of the machinery's capacity also implied the expansion of the cooling water channelling facility, leading to the construction of two new siphons, one for water intake and another for elimination, thereby bringing the total to four siphons.\n\nAfter approximately fifteen years undergoing construction and expansion, in its Low Pressure phase, the Tejo Power Station finally had three large manufacturing areas: boilers, machinery and substation, located parallel to the river. The boiler room consisted of four large industrial naves that created a free space in the interior for housing eleven low pressure boilers, ten Babcock & Wilcox (British technology) and one Humboldt (German origin). The machinery room is a longitudinal and also open space, perpendicular to the boiler room, accommodating five generating sets of varying capacities and brands: Escher Wyss & Cie, AEG, Stal-Asea and Escher Wyss/Thompson.\n\nDespite having concentrated work on low pressure during the period between 1930 and 1938, a series of construction work was carried out in order to prepare the Tejo Power Station for future high pressure production, which implied constructing a new building.\n\nThe location chosen for this new building was plotted where the original Tejo Power Station still stood. Despite being made up of a combination of workshops and warehouses, before demolishing it, a new location had to be found to accommodate these roles that were complementary but indispensable to the plant's operation. Thus the decision was made to purchase the property and buildings where the old sugar refinery Senna Sugar Estates, Ltd. (owned by the \"Companhia de Açúcar de Moçambique\" - Mozambique Sugar Company¬) used to lie, located on the power station's east side.\n\nFrom the beginning of that decade, AEG turbo-alternators 2 and 3 began to cause problems and break down constantly, and in 1934 a request was issued to purchase and license the installation of two generators of the same brand but with double the capacity. It was the end of 1935 when the new turbo-alternator number 2 was installed and inaugurated; it was also at this time that installation of the new voltage transformation equipment was concluded, allowing the Tejo Power Station's substation to supply the Lisbon and Tejo Valley region all the way to Santarém. At the end of the following year, generator number 3 was also replaced.\n\nThe installation of new generating sets with greater capacity made it almost mandatory to set up the first high pressure boilers (numbers 12, 13 and 14) in order to use the capacity provided by the turbo-alternator sets more efficiently due to the greater power the steam from the new boilers produced. The boilers were once again ordered from manufacturer Babcock & Wilcox, and their large size dictated the construction of the largest building in the industrial complex, the High Pressure Boiler Building.\n\nIn 1938, dismantled and without use, demolition began on what remained of the old original power plant to build in its place the new Tejo Power Station manufacturing space. Building was contracted out to several companies: for the coal mixer and increase in coal elevation, the Societé des Pieux Franki was selected, beginning work in September of that year. The metallic structure and construction work was given to Portuguese company Vulcano & Colares, beginning work on the first elements for the structure and the boilers in March 1939.\nWhat was noteworthy about this new building was that its structure was entirely built in iron, with the finishing following the same lines as the low pressure building, in other words, brick on the visible facades. The difference lay in the trimming, which contrary to the rest of the complex, presented a markedly classicist character of renaissance palace influence.\n\nDuring the time in which the High Pressure building began to take shape, work was also taking place on a new building of much smaller proportions destined for the Low Pressure Auxiliary equipment; in other words, to accommodate the water purification and treatment machinery. This annex also served to free up space in the boiler room since an Auxiliary High Pressure room was to be built at a later date. The auxiliary low pressure facility was completed in 1939 and adjoined the main building, next to boilers 8 and 10.\n\nOnce again the war, this time World War II, caused delays in the assembly and installation of the high pressure building. The three boilers planned to begin operating in 1940 only began to work a year later when their facilities were finally in working condition; boiler 12 in March, boiler 13 the following month and boiler 14 in August 1941.\n\nHowever, the boilers couldn’t reach a high output because they were operating under low pressure; the High Pressure auxiliary equipment had to be built and the turbines adapted. The auxiliary building grew within the low pressure boiler room, making it necessary to dismantle boilers 1 and 2 in 1943. On the other hand, making the turbines in sets 2 and 3 compatible with a high pressure process was complicated, since the order placed with the German manufacturer encountered the commercial blockade that spread all over the European continent as a consequence of World War II.\nThe equipment finally arrived in 1942, allowing High Pressure electric power production to begin the following year. In 1943, boilers 12 and 13 began to supply turbo-alternator number 2, and in 1944, boiler 14 began supplying turbo-alternator 3.\n\nBecause of the war, during the years of conflict the price of coal increased progressively while its quality dropped. Consequently, the rise in prices quadrupled in only six years (between 1939 and 1945). On the other hand, electricity production also rose progressively, reaching maximum rates year after year, peaking in 1950 at a record rate of 52 200 kW and 216 million kWh produced.\n\nIn 1948, due to the escalating price of coal, the three high pressure boilers were slightly altered to adapt them to burn naphtha (fuel oil), a petroleum by-product that at the time was cheaper than coal. It was also necessary to build an 8 000m3 reservoir near the \"Praça de Carvão\" (Coal Square) to store this flammable liquid.\n\nThroughout the year of 1944, the CRGE made plans to replace the old alternators and boilers with equipment better suited to the reality of those times, a consequence of technological evolution. Later, and due to the increase in electricity consumption, that project evolved into an expansion plan to create a new production centre, in other words, a new thermoelectric power station. That same year the National Electrification Law was approved, indicating a turning point in Portuguese electric power policy, making hydroelectric systems an absolute priority for power production. This meant that a project for a new thermoelectric power station would be denied, since it opposed the law. After making several appeals to the government, in 1948 the CRGE were finally granted permission to proceed with a minimal expansion of the Tejo Power Station, which meant the acquisition and installation of a new boiler, boiler number 15.\n\nOnce again supplied by Babcock & Wilcox, it was installed beside boiler 12. In order to accomplish this, the existing facade had to be demolished, the new area cemented, and the metallic structure covered in brick built, always with the same technique and look. Construction work began at the beginning of 1950 and the boiler began operating when construction was concluded in mid-1951, a time when the power station was already acting as a reserve.\n\nThe almost ten-year difference between the installation of the first high pressure boilers and this final one results in differences between them. For instance, boiler 15 already came equipped with naphtha injectors (in the others, these were added progressively), the conveyor belt is lower, the control table is more advanced in registering and reading the boiler's operational data, the boiler dust (ash) pan has six coal hoppers to expel boiler dust and coal (in the other there were only three), and it is also slightly larger in size.\n\nThe National Electrification Law made producing hydroelectric power an absolute priority, as was standardising electricity in the country through a national transport network. For those reasons, since 1950 the Tejo Power Station was classified as a reserve power station, occupying a secondary position to support the electric power production sector, inevitably beginning its decline.\n\nIndeed, on 21 January 1951 the Castelo do Bode Power Station was officially inaugurated, the first of several large scale hydroelectric power plants that the National Electrification Law established in its project to supply electric power to the large consumption centres, such as Lisbon and Porto. From that moment on, the Tejo Power Station became a reserve plant, limiting its operation to years of drought or complicated water situations, and as a support system for the national electric grid. However, it continued to produce power, although operating only one turbo set and two high pressure boilers.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1968, it worked every year except in 1961. 1953 was an especially difficult year due to a lack of water supply, which meant the Tejo Power Station had to work for almost the entire year, often overburdened in order to satisfy demand not only from its own distribution network but also to support the national grid. It was also during the 1960s that all the low pressure equipment was shut down and dismantled.\n\nThe last record of the power station's operation dates 14 August 1972, and is related to the movement opposing the political regime in government at the time. On 9 August, the high voltage lines that supplied Lisbon with electricity were sabotaged and the city was left without power. The Tejo Power Station was called upon for one week to overcome the problem and produce electricity to supply Lisbon's distribution network. The power station's former workers that had been summoned, some already retired, with all their knowledge and experience, got the Tejo Power Station working once again, feeding coal into boiler number 15 for the last time. 1 200 678 kWh were produced, a residual value that only represented one fifth of the daily consumption demands on the CRGE grid. That is the record that marks the final day of the Tejo Power Station. The noise and vibrations that characterised the operation of this power plant for several generations, were permanently stilled.\n\nOfficially, the Tejo Power Station was shut down and declassified in 1975.\n\nAfter nationalising the Portuguese electricity sector in 1975, the CRGE's assets were integrated into the new company established in 1976, EDP – Electricidade de Portugal, and the question arose regarding what to do with the old Tejo Power Station, where there was still a large amount of machinery tied to the impressive structure. The proposal was clear: reopen the space as a science and industrial archaeology museum.\n\nIn the same year the site was declared an Asset of Public Interest, in 1986, the future Electricity Museum's founding team got to work, opening its doors to the general public for the first time in 1990.\nThe Museum's permanent exhibits tell the story of the Tejo Power Station's process, history and work, as well as relevant aspects in the evolution of electric power production, from the first discoveries to current new forms of producing electricity. The Museum also has a Documentation Centre, a specialised library and a research and conservation service pertaining to a great variety of electricity-related equipment, thus consolidating the historic study of electricity in Portugal and perpetuating its memories and facts.\n\nBetween 2001 and 2005, as a response to its declining state of conservation, the power station underwent restoration work. Its facades and interiors were cleaned, its iron structure reinforced, thousands of bricks were replaced and the museographic content was altered, as is visible today and can be confirmed by visiting the space, the old Tejo Power Station, now an Electricity Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4338197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4338197", "title": "The Conference Board", "text": "The Conference Board\n\nThe Conference Board, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) non-profit business membership and research group organization. It counts approximately 1,200 public and private corporations and other organizations as members, encompassing 60 countries. The Conference Board convenes conferences and peer-learning groups, conducts economic and business management research, and publishes several widely tracked economic indicators.\n\nThe organization was founded in 1916 as the National Industrial Conference Board (NICB). At the time, tensions between labor and management in the United States were seen as potentially explosive in the wake of the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire in 1911 and the Ludlow Massacre in 1914. In 1915 presidents of twelve major corporations in the United States and six leading industry associations met in Yama, New York to formulate the business community’s response to continued labor unrest and growing public criticism.\n\nAfter additional crisis meetings, the National Industrial Conference Board was officially founded May 5, 1916, at the Hotel Gramatan in Bronxville, New York. Although many of the organizations’ founders—including former AT&T president Frederick P. Fish and General Electric executive Magnus W. Alexander, its first president—had supported the open-shop movement, by 1916 they regarded national unions such as the American Federation of Labor as permanent fixtures of the American economy, and urged negotiation and concord.\n\nWhen the United States entered World War I in 1917, the National War Labor Board formed by President Woodrow Wilson asked the NICB to formulate plans that would keep war industries running and strife-free. Its recommendations—based on cooperation between representatives of employers, employees, and government—were adopted in full. During and after the war, the NCIB conducted pioneering research into workers' compensation laws and the eight-hour workday, and established the U.S. Cost of Living Index. Though often mistrusted in its early years as an “employers union” funding studies against the labor movement, the non-profit NICB was also seen “as a spokesman for the so-called progressive wing of the business community [and] produced hundreds of research reports on economic and social issues facing the United States.”\n\nThe organization today remains funded by the contributions of members, often Fortune 500 companies. By the 1930s, however, it had already lost most of its character as an industry lobby. Virgil Jordan, a writer and economist who replaced Alexander as president on the latter’s death in 1932, established a Bureau of Economic Audit and Control to offer members and the public an independent source of studies on unemployment, pensions, healthcare, and related issues in the midst of the Great Depression, when many questioned the credibility of the government’s economic statistics. Unions soon joined the NICB alongside corporations for access to its research, conferences, and executive network.\n\nThe organization is now considered an unbiased “trusted source for statistics and trends, second only to perhaps the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics”. After World War II, The Conference Board—the shortened name adopted in 1970—expanded to non-U.S. members for the first time. Today, it has offices in Brussels, Beijing, Mumbai, Hong Kong, and Singapore. The Conference Board of Canada was spun off as an independent non-profit in 1981.\n\nThe Conference Board publishes a number of regular indicators for United States and international economies that are widely tracked by investors and policy makers. They include:\n\n\nThe organization also releases regular global and regional growth outlooks and commentaries on economic news. In 2008, The Conference Board named Professor Bart van Ark of the University of Groningen as its first non-U.S. chief economist.\n\nIn addition to research reports, The Conference Board organizes conferences, leadership events, and professional peer networks. It is a leading source of knowledge about corporate governance, corporate performance, business ethics, corporate security, human resources management and global corporate citizenship, grouped into four major practice areas:\n\n\nThe Conference Board also published a magazine of ideas and opinion, which was called Across the Board from 1976 to 2006 and \"The Conference Board Review\" until June 2014, when production ceased. In 2003, The Conference Board's Commission on Public Trust and Private Enterprise, which included 12 prominent leaders from business and other sectors of society, issued a wide-ranging series of recommendations to help restore public trust in companies, their leaders and the capital markets. Many of these recommendations have been adopted. In 2009, The Conference Board convened a task force on executive compensation.\n\nIn February 2012, The Conference Board launched The Demand Institute in collaboration with Nielsen. The Demand Institute is a non-profit, non-advocacy organization focused on helping business and government leaders understand how consumer demand is evolving and shifting around the world.\n\nIn January 2015, the Committee for Economic Development (CED) merged with The Conference Board, given the many synergies between the two organizations. Both are non-partisan, non-lobbying, and have members comprised mainly from the business community. CED's trusted policy voice in the nation's capital of Washington, D.C. expands the reach of The Conference Board's research; The Conference Board's economic data further strengthens CED's policy solutions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9013193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9013193", "title": "Trans World (video game)", "text": "Trans World (video game)\n\nTrans World is a business simulation computer game for the Commodore 64 published by Starbyte Software in 1990.\n\nThe player takes control of a new trucking company and competes against up to either three other human or computer players to make the most money. The game has two modes to choose from, a continuous play mode that plays indefinitely or a timed mode that runs a select number of turns. Players control all aspects of the company from purchasing new trucks to hiring mechanics to building new offices. Each round of the game controls one day of game time with each player taking a turn. Periodically, a random event will happen which can either help or hinder the player's company. Some events are offers to have goods delivered while others are sick days that skip the player's turn. The game ends when a player chooses to end it or when the selected number of rounds have been completed. The winner is the player with the most money at the game's end.\n"}
{"id": "26481965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26481965", "title": "Ukrainian Internet Association", "text": "Ukrainian Internet Association\n\nThe Ukrainian Internet Association (UIA) was founded in November 2000 in Kiev, the capital of Ukraine. It currently owns the Ukrainian Internet Exchange Network (UA-IX) network, which is the biggest internet exchange network in Ukraine. Additionally, in February 2010 it has announced a bid for a company that would monitor Ukrainian internet users population, in addition to two other companies that also monitor it, namely Internet Advertisement Association of Ukraine and Bigmir.net.\n\nIn June 2006 the UIA warned that proposed increased government regulation of the internet in Ukraine would amount to censorship. It had made similar complaints previously in October 2003. On 17 July 2003 the government of Ukraine requested service providers to install equipment which would allow all internet traffic to be monitored. The UIA said this was an \"unacceptable breach of privacy for Internet users\" and that such action was, under then-existing law, illegal.\n\nIn March 2004 the UIA announced the formation of a committee that would \"carry out development of recommendations on conscientious use of the Internet and methods of Internet offences prosecution on the basis of current Ukrainian law.\"\n\nEuropeMedia has called the UIA \"the oldest and one of the most influential organisations in Ukrainian Internet\".\n\n"}
{"id": "37974250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37974250", "title": "Uruguayan privatisation referendum, 1992", "text": "Uruguayan privatisation referendum, 1992\n\nA referendum on partially repealing the law on public enterprises was held in Uruguay on 13 December 1992. The proposed repeal was approved by 73% of voters.\n\nOn 10 January 1991 the General Assembly passed law 16,211 (Law on Public Enterprises), which allowed for the privatisation of some state enterprises.\n\nTwo attempts were made to gain enough support to force a referendum, with a quorum of 25% of registered voters required - equivalent to 589,823 voters. The first attempt gained 448,265 in favour for a partial repeal and 21,473 for a full repeal. The second effort obtained 693,668 for a partial repeal and 14,960 for a full repeal. On 15 October 1992 the Electoral Court decided on a referendum on a partial repeal.\n\nUnevaluated votes were those cast by voters outside of their local polling station. They would have been examined after a court had decided on their validity, but as the result was already clear, they were not counted.\n"}
{"id": "5113569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5113569", "title": "William Grant (businessman)", "text": "William Grant (businessman)\n\nWilliam Grant (18 December 1839 – 1923) was a Scottish distiller and entrepreneur who founded William Grant & Sons, the manufacturer of Glenfiddich, as such, the first company in the world to market a true single malt whisky and a leading brand today.\n\nGrant was descended from Clan Grant, which arrived in Speyside after being rewarded with land for \"services to the king\".In 1745, three brothers fought in the Jacobite rebellion against Hanover. Alexander Grant survived the Battle of Culloden but had to flee to Banffshire where he was hidden by a clan chief.\n\nAlexander Grant's great-grandson, William Grant, was born in 1839 in Dufftown, Scotland. When he was seven he began herding the family cattle in the hills. He then worked as an apprentice shoemaker and a limeworks employee. He did, however, receive a good education. Consequently, in 1866 he became a bookkeeper at the local Distillery. He gained an appreciation for the production of whisky and became manager of the distillery, where he worked for 20 years. His wife, Elizabeth, had nine children.\n\nThroughout this period of his life he saved money to set himself up as a distiller. In 1886, he quit his job, purchased the necessary land, materials and machines, and built the Glenfiddich Distillery with the help of his 9 children. On Christmas day in 1887, his distillery began operation, pioneering single malt Scotch whisky. Until Glenfiddich only blended brands were common.\n\nGlenfiddich whisky from William Grant & Sons proved successful and so in 1892 he built a second distillery next door in Dufftown, known as the Balvenie Distillery. His daughter Isabella married Charles Gordon, the company's first salesman. In 1909, Charles Gordon began travelling to export Glenfiddich around the world. By 1914, he had established distribution networks in 30 countries, and today the company exports to 180 countries.\n\nWilliam Grant died in 1923. In the 2008 Sunday Times Rich List, his family were ranked 86th richest in the UK, and 3rd richest in Scotland. In the Sunday Times Rich List 2013, the Grant and Gordon family were listed as the second richest family in Scotland.\n\nHis grandson William Grant, Lord Grant\n(1909–1972) was an advocate who served as Solicitor General for Scotland, Lord Advocate, and Lord Justice Clerk from 1962 to 1972.\n\nHis granddaughter was a woman named Janet Roberts (née Gordon; 13 August 1901 - 6 April 2012) who lived to be supercentenarian. Bottles of whisky were produced in her honour to mark her 100th, 105th, 107th and 110th birthdays. She died in her home at the advanced age of 110. She was the oldest living person in Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "24274117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24274117", "title": "Yosef Fischer", "text": "Yosef Fischer\n\nYosef Fischer (, born 11 February 1920, died 14 December 1992) was an Israeli politician who served as a member of the Knesset for Mapai and its successors between 1959 and 1969.\n\nBorn in Budapest in Hungary, Fischer made aliyah to Mandatory Palestine in 1935. Between 1938 and 1940 he served in the British Army as a Haganah emissary, before working as a cadet in the Jewish Settlement Police in Hanita and the Haifa Bay area from 1940 until 1943.\n\nA Haganah instructor, he was commander of the Kfar Azar training camp in 1947. Between 1947 and 1949 he worked as a manager, before establishing a machine shop in 1949 and becoming active in the Small Industries Association.\n\nIn 1952 he joined Mapai, and was elected to the Knesset on the party's list in 1959. He was re-elected in 1961 and 1965, before losing his seat in the 1969 elections.\n\nHe died in 1992 at the age of 72.\n"}
{"id": "49180265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49180265", "title": "Yrjö Vesa", "text": "Yrjö Vesa\n\nYrjö Waldemar Vesa (12 April 1898 — 4 December 1967) was a Finnish engineer, businessman and vuorineuvos.\n\nVesa was born and he did his studies in Helsinki. Following his graduation as Mechanical Engineer in 1921 he worked in Germany and United States in engineering and automotive companies. He returned in Finland in 1927 working for the following five years for Tampereen Pellava- ja Rauta-Teollisuus Oy in Tampere.\n\nYrjö Vesa started his career in Helsinki-based engineering company Kone ja Silta in 1932. The company was taken over by Wärtsilä and by time Vesa became manager of Kone ja Silta, and subsequently he was Deputy Director of Wärtsilä until 1947.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s Vesa was board member and later chairman of the Finnish Employers' Central Association (STK). His most difficult time as negotiator was after the World War II, when communists organised several strikes and reached for weight in companies.\n\nYrjö Vesa became the first manager of state-owned Valmet. He was involved at starting tractor and paper machine production, which later grew flourishing businesses. The company's shipyards created problems, and when the board wanted to produce ships unprofitably due to employment reasons, Vesa was against it, and became subsequently fired. For the rest of his career he managed an insurance company.\n\nVesa's parents were Matti Viktor Vesa and Maria Theresia née Gustafsson. He did studied in Helsinki Finnish Normal Lyceum and did his matriculation exam in 1917. Vesa continued his studies in Finnish University of Technology and graduated MSc in Mechanical Engineering in 1921.\n\nAlready during his studies, in 1919–1920, Vesa had worked as manager of Motor Battalion workshop; he worked as depot manager in 1921–1922. At the same time he worked in patent office under Ministry of Trade and Industry. In 1922 Vesa moved to Germany where he worked as workshop engineer for Siemens-Schuckert-Werke GmbH and Protos Automobile GmbH in 1922–1924. In 1925 Vesa moved to the United States where he first worked as mechanic at H. Drexler in New York City, then he became draftsman at American Machine & Foundry Co. in Brooklyn. Still in the same year he changed to Westinghouse Electric Co. where he worked as draftsman until 1926. During 1926–1927 he was employed by Columbus Die & Tool Co. in Columbus, Ohio as special tool designer. Vesa returned in Finland in 1927. During 1927–1932 Vesa worked as workshop engineer for Tampereen Pellava- ja Rauta-Teollisuus Oy in Tampere.\n\nIn 1932 Vesa changed to Kone- ja Siltarakennus (Kone ja Silta), a Helsinki-based engineering company. He started as manager of separator workshop. Vesa was appointed Technical Manager in 1934. In 1935 the company was taken over by Wärtsilä. The Wärtsilä manager Wilhelm Wahlforss trusted Vesa who had a similar vivid temper and style of making decisions quickly. Wahlforss first made him Deputy Director and in the end of 1936 Vesa was appointed Manager of Kone ja Silta. In spring 1939 Vesa participated in Wärtsilä trade negotiations with Soviet Union. The negotiations were successful, the company was to get orders for steamships, pulp boilers and steam boilers, but the Winter War, that bursted out in the same year, cancelled the agreement.\n\nIn 1942, during the Continuation War, Wahlforss appointed Vesa Deputy Manager of Wärtsilä Group. Running up and managing military supply production kept Vesa busy. After the war ended to Moscow Armistice, Vesa negotiated about war reparations as representative of the Finnish war reparation industry.\n\nDuring 1937–1941 Vesa had been deputy chairman in Finnish Engineering Industry Employers' Association and Deputy Board member of the Finnish Employers' Central Association (STK). Wahlforss had been member of board of STK since 1931 and Deputy Chairman in 1937–1942. Despite of requests, he did not want to become chairman. In 1941 Vesa became actual board member of STK and in 1942 he was selected as a chairman. The association manager, Antti Hackzell, was a close friend of Wahlforss and Wärtsilä board member. The strong presence of engineering industry, and Wärtsilä in particular, caused concern amongst the STK forest industry representatives, who accused the engineering industry about coup d'état.\n\nIn January 1940 STK and the trade union Finnish Federation of Trade Unions (SAK) officially recognised each other as representative, negotiating parties. Since then, the employers' side had been expecting initiatives from the union. In spring 1943 SAK proposed a general agreement. The negotiations began with meetings between chairmen of both parties. At the beginning of the process Vesa tried to exclude collective agreement from the package, but eventually failed; the pressure from the union side was high, and finally, in spring 1944, Vesa had to sign the general agreement, which included a collective agreement.\n\nAfter the war against Soviet Union ended in September 1944, labour disputed bursted out as number of legal and illegal strikes. This created challenges to the war reparations industry which had to follow the strict schedule set in the armistice. Moreover, the strikes often included volatile demonstrations, which were feared to escalate riots leading communists rising to power.\n\nA critical occasion took place in Turku in spring 1945 when workers of Crichton-Vulcan shipyard started overtime ban. According to the armistice, the yard capacity was prioritised to Soviet Navy vessels which were needed in the Soviet East Pomeranian Offensive. Many of the Soviet vessels brought to the yard, mostly submarines, were severely damaged. The yard workers were tired because of the intense workload and required a such increase to their salaries that it would assure livelihood by normal working hours. The Soviet military leadership had no understanding towards Finnish labour disputes. Prime minister Paasikivi was afraid that Soviet Union would even occupy Finland if the dispute would not be resolved; he called Vesa into his office and told him that the union action must be ended at any cost. Vesa went directly to meet the communist Minister of the Interior, Yrjö Leino, who had been his classmate in the Normal Lyceum. Leino made him a document that included an order to end the action. After Vesa showed the paper in Turku the overtime ban was withdrawn in March 1945.\n\nCommunist minister Yrjö Murto suggested creating production committees at workplaces. The employers saw it as an attempt to promote socialism. The employers started countermeasures under Vesa's lead, and finally the Production Committee Act introduced in 1946 defined the committees purely advisory.\n\nThe intense war reparation industry required professional leadership, which was not sufficiently available. Vesa initiated founding of industrial management institute in STK board meeting in 1945. STK collected the funding and the Management Institute of Industry was started already in the following year when it organised ten management courses. Vesa also criticised the contemporary Finnish school system in which the children were put to select the line of their studies at an early stage. He suggested creating a such school which would give basic education for the whole generation.\n\nIn 1947 Vesa was awarded vuorineuvos title due to his contribution as company and employers' association. He worked as STK chairman until 1947 when he started as manager in newly formed Valtion Metallitehtaat (State Metalworks) company and he was forced to give up his position in STK; this was due to demand of the political left wing, which at first did not accept membership of employers' association for managers of the state owned companies.\n\nWhen Yrjö Vesa started as manager of Valtion Metallitehtaat, it was a miscellaneous group of small companies which had been collected together in 1946. The companies had produced military supplies during the wartime after which they had focused on war reparations. Management and administration of a such arrangement turned out to be problematic, and therefore the state put them under one company, Valmet Oy, which was founded at the end of 1950.\n\nVesa was involved at starting tractor and paper machine production; these divisions grew later successful lines of business.\n\nThe Valmet shipyards caused a lot of problems. During the war they had operated as repairs yards and for the war reparations they had built such ships which other yards had refused to produce. After the war reparations were paid off the yards did not have enough of orders. The government pressed Valmet to produce ships to Soviet Union with unprofitable prices due to employment reasons. The company board decided that the Helsinki yard must get enough of orders from Soviet Union even if they would not be profitable, or cover all the costs. Vesa stood against such business and subsequently he was removed from office in 1954.\n\nAfter Valmet, Vesa worked for over ten years as manager for Teollisuuden Auto- ja vastuuvakuutus (Vehicle and Liability Insurance Company of Industry) in 1954–1965.\n\n"}
