{"id": "36567794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36567794", "title": "1841 rebellion in Guria", "text": "1841 rebellion in Guria\n\nThe 1841 rebellion in Guria (, \"guriis ajanq'eba\"; , \"myatezh v Gurii\") was a conflict in the former Georgian principality of Guria, at that time part of the Georgia-Imeretia Governorate of the Russian Empire, that took place as a reaction to the government's newly introduced duties and taxes for the Georgian peasants. The rebels, joined by several nobles, were initially successful in overrunning much of Guria, but they were finally defeated by the Russian army and the allied Georgian nobility in September 1841.\n\nGuria, a small and poor Georgian rural province on the Black Sea, had been under the Russian hegemony since 1810. In 1829, the Russians eliminated the local autonomous princely rule and imposed a Russian administration. The province had already been a scene of anti-Russian insurrection in 1820 and would gain more notability with a popular Social-Democratic uprising in 1905.\n\nIn 1841, without regard to local conditions, the Russian government ordered Gurian peasants to cultivate potatoes and to pay their taxes in Russian cash. Guria still maintained a primarily natural economy based on corn and millet. Rumors began to spread among the peasants that money payments would soon be required and that peasants would be drafted into the army.\n\nWhen the tax collections began in May 1841, the peasants of the Lanchkhuti community resisted and took to arms on May 22, 1841. The disturbances spread through all Guria and soon the rebels had almost 7,200 men in their ranks. They took control of most fortified points in the province and blocked roads leading to the city of Kutaisi. On August 9, 1841, the insurgents headed by Abes Bolkvadze clashed with the Russian troops of Colonel Brusilov at Gogoreti, inflicted heavy casualties upon them and forced Brusilov to retreat. Twice that month the Gurians tried but failed to take Ozurgeti, the principal town of Guria and the last remaining outpost of the Russians. Dissension within the rebel ranks led to the defection of many noble allies, most importantly of Prince David Gugunava. Eventually, on September 5, some 2,500 regular Russian troops under Colonel Moisey Argutinsky-Dolgorukov—aided by the volunteer units provided by the pro-Russian nobles—attacked the rebels and defeated them, killing more than 60. By late September Guria was again calm and under the Russian control, but the government made no further effort to collect taxes in cash or cultivate potatoes. By 1842, most arrested rebel leaders were released, except Prince Ambako Shalikashvili, who was banished to Siberia. According to a Russian source published in 1901, the Russian losses in the rebellion were at least 32 killed, 115 wounded, and 17 captured.\n\nThe rebellion was described by the peasant writer Egnate Ninoshvili (1859–1894) in his historical novel, \"The Revolt in Guria\" (ჯანყი გურიაში), which was screened by the pioneering Georgian film director Alexander Tsutsunava in 1928.\n"}
{"id": "13198492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13198492", "title": "Arun III", "text": "Arun III\n\nArun III is an \"under-construction\" run-of-the river type hydro-electric project constructed by SJVN Arun III Power Development Company Private Limited (A wholly owned subsidiary of SJVN Ltd) in Nepal at the Arun River. In this project, 900 megawatts of electricity was expected to be produced. \n\nThe project was formed by Nepal Government in 1992. However, the NGOs, environment protectors and individuals worried against rampant privatization in the culture and natural beauty of the Arun valley expressed numerous concerns against it. Besides, the criticism of the project included fear of increase of already high electricity tariffs and if the size of the project was appropriate for a country of Nepal's size. There was also a debate for the road to the project area concerning deforestation and habitat fragmentation. Finally in 1995, the World Bank decided to withdraw their support, effectively cancelling the project. \n\nThe Project again resurfaced and Project Development Agreement (PDA) was signed in November 2014, which brought into limelight the 21.9% free power to Nepal for 25 years, effectively silencing the Organisations and individuals working hard to protect the Arun valley. The surplus power from the project will be exported to India from Dhalkebar in Nepal to Muzaffarpur in Bihar. In 2017 the cabinet of india approved the project once the resistance for the project were weakened, and so the project is being pushed to be inaugurated in October, despite numerous objections to it, by the Indian prime minister.\n\n\nhttp://kathmandupost.ekantipur.com/news/2017-10-03/indian-pm-modi-likely-to-visit-nepal-this-month.html\n"}
{"id": "11301061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11301061", "title": "Chinese University Student Press", "text": "Chinese University Student Press\n\nChinese University Student Press (CUSP, 中大學生報) is a magazine published by the Chinese University of Hong Kong Students' Union. The \"CUSP\" is considered a liberal magazine as it sparked controversy because of its publication of the sex column.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37015016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37015016", "title": "Citizens' Ministry", "text": "Citizens' Ministry\n\nThe \"Citizens' Ministry\" (\"Bürgerministerium\") is a term used in a political debate, and later in historical literature. It also applies to the \"Doctors' Ministry\" (\"Doktorenministerium\"). They are used as summary descriptions for the four governments of the Austrian part of Austria-Hungary (Cisleithania), from 30 December 1867 to 4 April 1870, when the government tendered its resignation, and was dismissed on 12 April 1870. These were the initial administrations after the Austro-Hungarian Compromise (\"Ausgleich\") of 1867 that divided the empire's internal administration.\n\nThese were the ministries of Prince Karl of Auersperg (30 December 1867 – 24 September 1868), Taaffe (24 September 1868 – 15 January 1870), Baron Ignaz von Plener (15 January 1870 – 1 February 1870), and Leopold Hasner von Artha (1 February 1870 – 12 April 1870), during which the composition of the cabinet changed slightly. Cabinet members were drawn mainly from the German-Liberal Party. The Citizens' Ministry pursued a liberal political agenda, but failed in 1870 due to their inability to adequately manage the tensions between the many nationalities. When Hasner refused Emperor Franz Josef I's request to dissolve the uncooperative regional Diet Assemblies, he resigned, bringing the \"Bürgerministerium\" to an end.\n\nThe term \"Bürgerministerium\", which may be translated as \"citizens' ministry\" or \"bourgeois ministry\" (the German term \"Bürger\" should be understood in its double meaning: both \"citoyen\" and \"bourgeois\"), refers to four of the nine members of the Auersperg government. They were drawn from the bourgeoisie, rather than nobility, while Plener had been knighted eleven years earlier. The majority of ministers were therefore commoners, a novelty at the time.\n\nThe term \"Doctors' Ministry\" refers to the five members who had obtained doctorates. The other three (Auersperg, Taaffe and Plener) had law degrees. Thus the proportion of graduates among the ministers was very high, also a novelty.\n\nOn 30 December 1867, Emperor Franz Joseph I proclaimed the former President of the Upper House of the Imperial Council (\"Reichsrat\"), Prince Karl von Auersperg, as minister-president of the Cisleithanian part of the empire, or formally, the \"President of My Council of Ministers of the Kingdoms and Lands represented in the Imperial Council\" (\"Präsidenten Meines Ministerrates der im Reichsrat vertretenen Königreiche und Länder\"). After conflicts in the cabinet over concessions to various nationalities and ethnic groups represented in the Council of Ministers, he resigned in protest on 4 September 1868. Although an advocate of centralism, he agreed to negotiations with the Czechs in order to win their participation in the Imperial Council. In his view, Taaffe and Foreign Minister Friedrich Ferdinand von Beust (30 December 1867 – 8 November 1871) made excessive concessions to the Czech National Party.\nHe was succeeded by Eduard Taaffe until 15 January 1870 and then Plener and Hasner.\n\nThe Ministry proclaimed by the Emperor on 30 December 1867 consisted of;\n\nTaaffe, Potocki and Berger became the minority over their support of federalism and eventually resigned in 1870 when the Emperor did not support them and their \"Minority Memorandum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "25619904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25619904", "title": "Cloud computing security", "text": "Cloud computing security\n\nCloud computing security or, more simply, cloud security refers to a broad set of policies, technologies, and controls deployed to protect data, applications, and the associated infrastructure of cloud computing. It is a sub-domain of computer security, network security, and, more broadly, information security.\n\nCloud computing and storage provides users with capabilities to store and process their data in third-party data centers. Organizations use the cloud in a variety of different service models (with acronyms such as SaaS, PaaS, and IaaS) and deployment models (private, public, hybrid, and community). Security concerns associated with cloud computing fall into two broad categories: security issues faced by cloud providers (organizations providing software-, platform-, or infrastructure-as-a-service via the cloud) and security issues faced by their customers (companies or organizations who host applications or store data on the cloud). The responsibility is shared, however. The provider must ensure that their infrastructure is secure and that their clients’ data and applications are protected, while the user must take measures to fortify their application and use strong passwords and authentication measures.\n\nWhen an organization elects to store data or host applications on the public cloud, it loses its ability to have physical access to the servers hosting its information. As a result, potentially sensitive data is at risk from insider attacks. According to a recent Cloud Security Alliance report, insider attacks are the sixth biggest threat in cloud computing. Therefore, cloud service providers must ensure that thorough background checks are conducted for employees who have physical access to the servers in the data center. Additionally, data centers must be frequently monitored for suspicious activity.\n\nIn order to conserve resources, cut costs, and maintain efficiency, cloud service providers often store more than one customer's data on the same server. As a result, there is a chance that one user's private data can be viewed by other users (possibly even competitors). To handle such sensitive situations, cloud service providers should ensure proper data isolation and logical storage segregation.\n\nThe extensive use of virtualization in implementing cloud infrastructure brings unique security concerns for customers or tenants of a public cloud service. Virtualization alters the relationship between the OS and underlying hardware – be it computing, storage or even networking. This introduces an additional layer – virtualization – that itself must be properly configured, managed and secured. Specific concerns include the potential to compromise the virtualization software, or \"hypervisor\". While these concerns are largely theoretical, they do exist. For example, a breach in the administrator workstation with the management software of the virtualization software can cause the whole datacenter to go down or be reconfigured to an attacker's liking.\n\nCloud security architecture is effective only if the correct defensive implementations are in place. An efficient cloud security architecture should recognize the issues that will arise with security management. The security management addresses these issues with security controls. These controls are put in place to safeguard any weaknesses in the system and reduce the effect of an attack. While there are many types of controls behind a cloud security architecture, they can usually be found in one of the following categories:\n\n\n\n\n\nIt is generally recommended that information security controls be selected and implemented according and in proportion to the risks, typically by assessing the threats, vulnerabilities and impacts. Cloud security concerns can be grouped in various ways; Gartner named seven while the Cloud Security Alliance identified twelve areas of concern. Cloud access security brokers (CASBs) are software that sits between cloud users and cloud applications to provide visibility into cloud application usage, data protection and governance to monitor all activity and enforce security policies.\n\n\n\n\nScanning could from outside and inside using free or commercial products is very important because without a hardened environment your service is considered as a soft target. Virtual servers should be hardened like a physical server against data leakage, malware, and exploited vulnerabilities. \"Data loss or leakage represents 24.6% and cloud related malware 3.4% of threats causing cloud outages”\n\nScanning and penetration testing from inside or outside the cloud require to be authorized by the cloud provider. Since the cloud is a shared environment with other tenants following penetration testing rules of engagement step-by-step is a mandatory requirement. Violation of acceptable use policy which can lead to termination of the service.\n\nA number of security threats are associated with cloud data services: not only traditional security threats, such as network eavesdropping, illegal invasion, and denial of service attacks, but also specific cloud computing threats, such as side channel attacks, virtualization vulnerabilities, and abuse of cloud services. The following security requirements limit the threats.\n\nData confidentiality is the property that data contents are not made available or disclosed to illegal users. Outsourced data is stored in a cloud and out of the owners' direct control. Only authorized users can access the sensitive data while others, including CSPs, should not gain any information of the data. Meanwhile, data owners expect to fully utilize cloud data services, e.g., data search, data computation, and data sharing, without the leakage of the data contents to CSPs or other adversaries.\n\nAccess controllability means that a data owner can perform the selective restriction of access to her or his data outsourced to cloud. Legal users can be authorized by the owner to access the data, while others can not access it without permissions. Further, it is desirable to enforce fine-grained access control to the outsourced data, i.e., different users should be granted different access privileges with regard to different data pieces. The access authorization must be controlled only by the owner in untrusted cloud environments.\n\nData integrity demands maintaining and assuring the accuracy and completeness of data. A data owner always expects that her or his data in a cloud can be stored correctly and trustworthily. It means that the data should not be illegally tampered, improperly modified, deliberately deleted, or maliciously fabricated. If any undesirable operations corrupt or delete the data, the owner should be able to detect the corruption or loss. Further, when a portion of the outsourced data is corrupted or lost, it can still be retrieved by the data users.\n\nSome advanced encryption algorithms which have been applied into cloud computing increase the protection of privacy. In a practice called crypto-shredding, the keys can simply be deleted when there is no more use of the data.\n\nAttribute-based encryption is a type of public-key encryption in which the secret key of a user and the ciphertext are dependent upon attributes (e.g. the country in which he lives, or the kind of subscription he has). In such a system, the decryption of a ciphertext is possible only if the set of attributes of the user key matches the attributes of the ciphertext.\n\nIn the CP-ABE, the encryptor controls access strategy. The main research work of CP-ABE is focused on the design of the access structure.\n\nIn the KP-ABE, attribute sets are used to describe the encrypted texts and the private keys are associated to specified policy that users will have.\n\nFully homomorphic encryption allows computations on encrypted data, and also allows computing sum and product for the encrypted data without decryption.\n\nSearchable encryption is a cryptographic system which offer secure search functions over encrypted data.\nSE schemes can be classified into two categories: SE based on secret-key (or symmetric-key) cryptography,\nand SE based on public-key cryptography.\nIn order to improve search efficiency, symmetric-key SE generally builds keyword indexes to answer user queries.\n\nNumerous laws and regulations pertain to the storage and use of data. In the US these include privacy or data protection laws, Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), and Children's Online Privacy Protection Act of 1998, among others.\n\nSimilar laws may apply in different legal jurisdictions and may differ quite markedly from those enforced in the US. Cloud service users may often need to be aware of the legal and regulatory differences between the jurisdictions. For example, data stored by a cloud service provider may be located in, say, Singapore and mirrored in the US.\n\nMany of these regulations mandate particular controls (such as strong access controls and audit trails) and require regular reporting. Cloud customers must ensure that their cloud providers adequately fulfil such requirements as appropriate, enabling them to comply with their obligations since, to a large extent, they remain accountable.\n\n\n\n\nAside from the security and compliance issues enumerated above, cloud providers and their customers will negotiate terms around liability (stipulating how incidents involving data loss or compromise will be resolved, for example), intellectual property, and end-of-service (when data and applications are ultimately returned to the customer). In addition, there are considerations for acquiring data from the cloud that may be involved in litigation. These issues are discussed in service-level agreements (SLA).\n\nLegal issues may also include records-keeping requirements in the public sector, where many agencies are required by law to retain and make available electronic records in a specific fashion. This may be determined by legislation, or law may require agencies to conform to the rules and practices set by a records-keeping agency. Public agencies using cloud computing and storage must take these concerns into account.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42535667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42535667", "title": "Commemorative Works Act", "text": "Commemorative Works Act\n\nThe Commemorative Works Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-652; 40 U.S. Code Chapter 89) is a United States federal law which bars the construction of commemorative works on the National Mall and the National Capital Area unless they are approved by the National Capital Memorial Advisory Commission (NCMAC). The law also establishes criteria a memorial must meet in order to be approved the NCMAC, and establishes a seven-year deadline by which construction must begin or the memorial loses its congressional authorization. As of April 2014, the law has been amended five times, most notably by the Commemorative Works Clarification and Revision Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-126).\n\nBy 1986, there were 110 national monuments, memorials, and statues in Washington, D.C., and its immediate environs. The pressure to build more memorials on the National Mall was extremely heavy, with roughly 15 new proposals being introduced in each session of Congress. Approximately 25 additional memorials had been seriously proposed but lacked a congressional sponsor to introduced authorizing legislation in Congress. The sheer number of memorials being proposed was not the only problems. The memorials were increasingly large, and often included extensive exhibits that threatened to turn memorials into miniature museums.\n\nOn March 11, 1986, Representative Mo Udall (D-Arizona) introduced H.R. 4378, the Commemorative Works Act of 1986, in the United States House of Representatives. The bill was favorably reported by the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs on April 23, and passed the House by voice vote on May 5. A companion bill, S. 2522, was introduced in the United States Senate by Senator Malcolm Wallop (R-Wyoming) on June 5. The bill was assigned to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, which favorably reported the bill with amendments on August 15. The bill passed the Senate, with additional amendments, by voice vote on September 10. The House made additional amendments of its own, and concurred with the Senate bill by voice vote on September 29. The Senate concurred with the House-amended bill by voice vote on October 16. President Ronald Reagan signed the bill into law on November 14, 1986.\n\nThe Commemorative Works Act (CWA) established \"significant procedural roadblocks\" to the creation of new memorials.\n\nSection 2(c) of the Commemorative Works Act of 1986 defines a \"commemorative work\" as a garden, memorial, memorial grove, monument, sculpture, statue, or other structure or landscape feature designed to perpetuate the memory of a person, group, or event.\nSection 2(e) established specific zones within the National Capital Region to which various rules established by the Act would apply. Working with the General Services Administration and the National Park Service, Congress had on May 1, 1986, created a map (number 869/86501) of these areas, which it named Area I and Area II. Area I roughly encompassed a zone extending from the White House to the United States Capitol; from the Capitol along Maryland Avenue SW to and along the 14th Street Bridge; the Virginia shore of the Potomac River from the 14th Street Bridge to Columbia Island; Columbia Island; the National Park Service land fronting Arlington National Cemetery (excluding Memorial Drive) north to Key Bridge; Key Bridge due east across the Potomac River to Rock Creek; Rock Creek north to 26th Street NW and L Street NW; south on 26th Street NW to I Street NW; roughly west from the intersection of I and 26th Streets NW to the National Park Service land on the D.C. shore of the Potomac River; south along the Potomac River to West Potomac Park (including the grounds of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts); east along the National Mall to The Ellipse; and north to the White House. Area II consisted of those parts of the National Capital Area outside Area I.\n\nSection 3(a) of the Act barred establishment of a memorial anywhere within Area I or Area II without specific authorization by Congress.\n\nSection 4(a) of the Act formally established the National Capital Memorial Advisory Committee (NCMAC). This committee had been informally established earlier by the United States Department of the Interior. The Act charged NCMAC with administering the Commemorative Works Act, and specified the membership of the committee. These were:\nSection 7(a)(1) required memorials to be submitted to NCMAC for siting approval. Section 7(a)(1) required memorials to be submitted to the Commission of Fine Arts and the National Capital Planning Commission for both site and design approval.\n\nSection 6(a) of the Commemorative Works Act established the criteria a commemorative work had to meet to be erected in Area I. Either the United States Secretary of the Interior or the Administrator of the General Services Administration could approve a memorial within Area I if and only if the person, group, or event to be commemorated was of \"preeminent historical and lasting significance to the Nation.\" This determination could be made only after consulting with NCMAC. Even so, the affiramtive determination had to be approved by Congress within 150 days, or it was considered disapproved.\n\nSection 6(b) of the Commemorative Works Act established the criteria a commemorative work had to meet to be erected in Area II. Section 6(b)(1) governed military commemorative works. It barred memorials for \"lesser\" conflicts and those commemorating only a unit of the armed forces of the United States. An individual or the last surviving member of a group to be commemorated had to have died at least 25 years ago for a memorial to be erected. Other commemorative works—those not commemorating a war, branch of the armed forces, individual, or group—were permissible in Area II only if they were \"a subject of lasting historical significance.\"\n\nSection 8(a) barred the District of Columbia or Department of the Interior from issuing a construction permit for a commemorative work unless its site and design had been approved by the Secretary or Administrator, the Commission of Fine Arts, and the National Capital Planning Commission; unless the memorial planners could prove they had consulted knowledgeable individuals regarding historic preservation and \"structural soundness and durability\" about the memorial design; the memorial's builder had design and construction contracts signed; and the memorial's builder had sufficient funds in hand to complete construction.\n\nSection 8(b) also required memorial builders to collect an amount equal to 10 percent of the total cost of construction. This amount was to be turned over to the United States Treasury, which would hold them in trust as a perpetual operations and maintenance fund for the memorial.\n\nSection 10(b) provided that the authorization for a memorial would expire at the end of five years, unless a construction permit had been issued by the Department of the Interior or the General Services Administration or Congress had expressly enacted legislation authorizing an extension of the deadline. Section 10(e) exempted any memorial authorized before the 99th Congress from the five-year deadline.\n\nSection 10(c) of the Act required that title to completed commemorative works be transferred to the Department of the Interior or the General Services Administration upon completion.\n\nThe 102nd Congress amended the Commemorative Works Act for the first time. Representative Bill Clay (D-Missouri) introduced H.R. 3169 on August 1, 1991. It was referred to the House Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs, which approved an amended bill on October 21. The House approved the bill by voice vote the same day. The bill was passed to the Senate, and referred to the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources. It was reported favorably on November 12, and approved by the Senate in a voice vote on November 27. President George H. W. Bush signed it into law on December 11, 1991 (Public Law 102-216).\n\nPublic Law 102-216 lengthened the term of memorial authorization to seven years from five years.\n\nIn 1994, Congress enacted amendments to the Commemorative Works Act (Public Law 103-321).\n\nOn August 6, 1993, Representative Nancy Johnson (R-Connecticut) introduced H.R. 2947. It was referred to the House Committee on Natural Resources (the successor committee to the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs), and reported favorably (with amendments) on November 20, 1993. It passed the House on a voice vote on November 23. On October 15, 1993, Senator John Warner (R-Virginia]] introduced companion legislation (S. 1552) in the Senate. It was referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, which favorably reported it, with amendments, on April 5, 1994. It passed the Senate on a voice vote on April 12. The House voted 378-to-0 to accept the amendment Senate bill on August 16, 1994. President Bill Clinton signed the bill into law (Public Law 103-321) on August 26.\n\nSeveral memorials were close to losing their congressional authorization in 1994. The backers of these memorials convinced Congress that they were close to raising enough funds to build their commemorative works and obtain final design approval. In Section 1 of the amendments, Congress extended the authorization for the Black Revolutionary War Patriots Memorial, National Peace Garden, and Women in Military Service for America Memorial from seven years to 10 years.\n\nSection 2(a) of the amendment made minor revisions to the commemorative works encompassed by the CWA. Commemorative works now included plaques and inscriptions, and memorial sponsors had to be either a public agency or a nonprofit organization as defined by the Internal Revenue Code.\n\nSection 2(b)(2) added the requirement that a major conflict occur at least 10 years ago in order to be authorized in Area I.\n\nSection 2(c) changed the requirements for meeting the construction deadline. Instead of commencing construction by the deadline, memorial backers now merely had to request a construction permit by the deadline. Memorial backers were also now required to show that they had considered alternative sites and alternative designs for their memorial as well.\n\nSection 2(e)(2) established a new section of the CWA. It allowed the Secretary of the Interior or the Administrator of the General Services Administration (GSA) to suspend the fundraising for or construction of a commemorative work if the fundraising efforts misrepresented what the funds were being raised for, or if the fundraising effort implied it was an official effort of the United States government. Annual reports regarding fundraising were now required to be submitted either to Interior or GSA.\n\nOn August 21, 2002, Congress enacted a law entitled \"Codifying Title 40, United States Code—Public Buildings, Property, and Works\" (Public Law 107–217). Subtitle II-Public Buildings and Works, Part D-Public Buildings, Grounds, and Parks in the District of Columbia, Sections 8901 to 8909 further amended the Commemorative Works Act.\n\nSection 8902(a)(1) included \"landscape features\" in the definition of commemorative works. Section 8902(a)(2) expanded the range of organizations which could build memorials to any organization authorized by Congress (regardless of its nonprofit or for-profit status). Section 8903(b) now barred absolutely works commemorating lesser conflicts or units of the armed forces.\n\nBecause the National Capital Memorial Advisory Committee was a creation of the Department of the Interior, it could be dissolved by the department at will, which would leave the CWA without an enforcing body. To rectify this, Section 8904 established a new National Capital Memorial Commission. It had the same membership, chair, and authority as its predecessor.\n\nPart D also made changes to the procedures by which memorials would be considered. Now it was mandatory under Section 8905(a)(1) for a memorial's backers to consult with the National Capital Memorial Commission (NCMC) regarding alternative sites and designs. No longer could memorial backers submit their proposed sites and designs directly to the CFA or the NCPC. Now, according to Section 8905(a)(2), only the Department of the Interior or GSA had that authority (which effectively forced memorial backers to coordinate with them to get a submission made).\n\nCongress also tightened the rules for approving a memorial. Section 8905(b) now required that the work be placed only in an area \"relevant to the subject of the work\"; that the new memorial not \"interfere with, or encroach on, an existing commemorative work\"; protect as much open space as possible and be compatible with existing public use; be constructed of durable materials; and contain landscaping compatible with the local climate.\n\nSection 8906(b)(1) now required that the 10 percent trust fund be turned over to the Treasury before a construction permit could be issued.\n\nCongress enacted the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visitor Center Authorization (Public Law 108–126) on November 17, 2003. Unlike subsequent memorial nonprofits, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Foundation (VVMF) continued to operate and solicit funds long after the Vietnam Veterans Memorial had been constructed. The foundation was now self-perpetuating, and had a large staff, lobbyists, and programming. The VVMF began agitating for a museum about the Vietnam War to be constructed near the memorial. The VVMF had raised significant sums of money to construct this museum (which it called a \"visitor's center\", so as not to alarm Smithsonian Institution officials), and it had a potent and well-organized grassroots campaign pressuring Congress to approve the plan.\n\nTitle I of the act authorized construction of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visitors' Center.\n\nTitle II of the act was titled the Commemorative Works Clarification and Revision Act of 2003 (CWCRA).\n\nTitle II, Section 202 made a major revision to Area I. Congress now defined within Area I a zone it called the Reserve. The Reserve was designated generally as the National Mall from the Capitol to the Lincoln Memorial, and the cross-axis of the Mall from the White House to the Jefferson Memorial. Section 202 expressly prohibited new commemorative works or visitors' centers within the Reserve. A new map, numbered 869/86501 B and dated June 24, 2003, was created to depict the Reserve.\n\nTitle II, Section 203(a) now explicitly required NCMC, CFA, NCPC, and other bodies with oversight over memorial siting to seek to locate commemorative works throughout the entire National Capital Area (not just Area I or areas adjacent to it).\n\nTitle II, Section 203(c) also changed what works could qualify for placement in Area I and Area II. Works commemorating lesser conflicts were no longer outright barred. Now a commemorative work could memorialize a lesser conflict so long as it did not solely do so.\n\nTitle II, Section 203(c)(3) relaxed slightly the standard for issuing a construction permit. Now the Secretary of the Interior or the Administrator of the GSA, in consultation with NCMAC, had the discretion to issue a construction permit if both the NCPC and CFA had issued final (not preliminary) design approval and the foundation had 75 percent (not 100 percent) of the construction funds in hand. Either the Secretary or Administrator also had the authority to extend for up to three years the authorization of a memorial if these conditions were met. Title II, Section 203(f) made it clear, however, that the 10 percent trust fund contribution must also be made (in addition to having 75 percent of construction funds) for a construction permit to issue.\n\nTitle II, Section 204 made adjustments to the approval criteria. It barred construction of any museum in either Area I or East Potomac Park, and authorized the CFA and NCPC to develop joint regulations, guidelines, and criteria to carry out the CWA. It also barred recognition of donor contributions on any memorial.\n\nCongress enacted the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–11) on March 30, 2009. Title VII—National Park Service Authorizations, Subtitle B—Amendments to Existing Units of the National Park System, Section 7116(e) made minor technical corrections to the CWA (primarily in the name of committees).\n"}
{"id": "1143143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1143143", "title": "Common ground (communication technique)", "text": "Common ground (communication technique)\n\nCommon ground is the overlap between the positions of parties that may otherwise disagree. \"Finding common ground\" is a technique people use to facilitate interpersonal relationships. To find common ground between parties, participants must search for signals of recognition, which are often subtle and prone to misunderstanding. Generally, smiles, bland faces, or frowns can be the positive, neutral, or negative signals. When verbal communication is possible, the participants can speak and then listen. Another aspect to establishing common ground is the use of visual cues. According to Gergle et al (2013), visual cues also help establish common ground in that it gives a reference to the speaker as to how much is understood.\n\nIn academia, \"grounding criterion\" is the standard that communicators must meet for a communication to succeed. Effective communication can be further thought of as having two distinct parts—the presentation phase, in which the information is relayed, and the acceptance phase, in which the receiver acknowledges comprehension of the information.\n\nHistorically, the \"commons\" in many communities were places available to everyone, such as the village pump, or the sidewalk of a road. Thus, even for those far from home, the sight of someone familiar only from the \"commons\" might be comforting to a homesick or lonely traveller. This effect can be seen in many kinship groups. One measure for interpersonal relationships is \"warmth\". Thus discovery of \"common ground\" is commonly cause for comfort and additional happiness among the participants, and is one step on the way to respect or perhaps friendship.\n\nHowever, to some people in small-enough communities, conflict may have occurred between them too often to find common ground, and isolation from each other is the only path toward healing and a healthy relationship. For such people, shunning of the commons is necessary. But if one is \"forced\" onto the commons, then a minimal acceptable behavior toward others is necessary when on common ground, as in a truce.\n\nAs an example, one technique for anonymous trade between mutually suspicious parties was for the offerers to lay the goods (such as gold) in a clearing (the potential \"common ground\"), and then to hide in the forest with the gold in their plain sight, while armed with weapons, in the event of treachery. Thus, offers could be made to traders. The traders, who bore goods (and who were also armed with weapons), would lay the trade goods in the clearing, and take the gold back with them. This was a mechanism for trading between the Moors and the gold miners of Africa over a millennium ago, and also for trade with Sumatra (the \"isle of gold\") and other islands of Southeast Asia. This has some structural similarity to the policy of mutually assured destruction during the Cold War era.\n\nToday, we have the advantage of more highly developed communications techniques, but the basic need for minimizing suspicion and maximizing trust remains with us, worldwide, at a time when polarization is increasing.\n"}
{"id": "53575060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53575060", "title": "Corruption in Azerbaijan", "text": "Corruption in Azerbaijan\n\nAzerbaijan is a member of Council of Europe's Group of States Against Corruption (GRECO) and OECD's Anti-Corruption Network. Its anti-corruption measures are regularly evaluated within their monitoring mechanisms. GRECO notes that despite of carried out anti-corruption policies and measures by the Government of Azerbaijan, corruption is referred as one of problematic areas in Azerbaijan.\n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 122nd place out of 180 countries.\n\nAccording to Transparency International, Azerbaijan demonstrates improvement in international anti-corruption reports; however, its position in these indices is weak comparatively to that of neighbouring countries, such as Georgia and Turkey. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index (CPI), Azerbaijan achieved its best position in that year since its inclusion in the report in 2000.\n\nThus, in 2015, Azerbaijan was ranked 20th out of 168 countries compared to 2001 when it was ranked 87th out of 90 countries. The 2015 CPI results show that even though Azerbaijan is ahead of the Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan, it is behind Georgia and Turkey.\n\nThe World Bank’s Worldwide Governance Indicators support the above-mentioned comparative statistics between countries and report that Azerbaijan's ability to control corruption has increased to 20 (2015) from 7 (2000).\n\nThe 2013 Global Corruption Barometer (GCB) report of Transparency International indicates that 9% of respondents in Azerbaijan think that corruption has increased a lot. While 69% consider that the government's efforts are effective in the fight against corruption Furthermore, 71% of respondents agree that an ordinary person can make a difference in the fight against corruption in Azerbaijan. Citizens participation and the values of integrity, accountability, and transparency are crucial components of fighting corruption. It is important to develop programs and actions to change the cultural understanding of corruption and helped citizens to act against abuses.\n\nIn the 2013 GCB report, health, the judiciary, and police were perceived as the most corrupt sectors by respondents. In comparison to the 2010 GCB report, improvement is noted in the more recent report with increased levels of trust in the civil service, education, and police. It is noted that, contrary to international perceptions, Azerbaijani respondents perceive political parties as one of the least corrupt sectors alongside the media and religious bodies\n\nThe 2014 National Integrity Assessment report of the Azerbaijani National Chapter of Transparency International characterized Azerbaijan as having a strong executive branch, and law enforcement and anti-corruption agencies while the report indicates that the judiciary and legislative branches of governance are comparatively weak, with the pillars that perform watchdog functions, including civil society, the media, and political parties, being the weakest links in the national integrity system.\n\nAccording to the Global Integrity Index (GIX) (2011), the anti-corruption legislative framework of Azerbaijan is strong (89 out of 100); however, its implementation is very weak (38 out of 100) considering the powers that have been granted by law.\n\nAzerbaijan has improved its anti-corruption legislation to bring it into line with the standards of international conventions. However, it lacks the supporting legislative Acts and institutional measures to apply it in practice, thus creating a disparity between the existing legislation and its application.\n\nAzerbaijan is a member of the Council of Europe's Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) and has passed its first, second and third evaluation rounds. In GRECO's fourth evaluation round report, it is noted that, even though serious anti-corruption efforts have been carried out by the Azerbaijani government to fight against corruption, corruption is still being referred to as one of most problematic areas in the country In addition, the GRECO report notes that the lack of control on ancillary activities and asset disclosure of Members of Parliament weakens the anti-corruption framework: the report recommends that anti-corruption efforts be deepened and institutionalized in the field of asset declaration and conflicts of interest.\n\nAzerbaijan has signed the Istanbul Anti-Corruption Action Plan (Istanbul Action Plan, or IAP) which covers Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Tajikistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan and the other ACN countries in 2003. The Implementation of the plan includes regular and systematic peer review of the legal, and institutional framework for fighting corruption in the covered countries by the signing parties. Since then Azerbaijan has actively taken part in the monitoring rounds.\n\nThe international corruption reports and surveys conclude that Azerbaijan demonstrates steady improvement in anti-corruption rankings, but its progress is relatively slower than that of neighbouring countries. Furthermore, Azerbaijan has advanced with its anti-corruption legislation and strong executive branch; however, the legislature and the judiciary are perceived weak and potentially more exposed to corruption.\n\nOn March 2017, the authorities of Azerbaijan have authorised publication of the Fourth Round Compliance Report on Azerbaijan by GRECO.\n\nAfter the dissolution of the Soviet Union in late 1991, the transition period in Azerbaijan was complicated and further prolonged by the inability of the national political elite to ensure the existence of key public institutions during 1991–1993 In addition, during those years, Azerbaijan was forced to engage in military clashes with Armenia over the region of Nagorno-Karabakh. In 1993, as a result of the invasion by Armenia, Azerbaijan lost 20% of its territory. In the same year, the United Nations Security Council adopted four resolutions (822, 853, 874 and 884) which condemned the use of force against Azerbaijan and the occupation of its territories. The UN Security Council demanded from Armenia the immediate, complete and unconditional withdrawal of the occupying forces.\n\nAs a result of the war with Armenia, the influx of more than one million refugees and internally displaced people had a devastating impact on both the social and economic situation in Azerbaijan (Badalov and Mehdi, 2004). This tragic event shifted the priority of the country from building public institutions to accommodating internally displaced people (IDPs) and providing them with the necessary living standards. In addition, the collapse of the Soviet Union caused economic paralysis in Azerbaijan. Therefore, the main priorities of the Azerbaijani government were to divert all of its financial and political resources to safeguarding IDPs and to fighting against the invasion by Armenia in the international legal arena.\n\nFollowing a period of state building after 1993, adoption of the new Constitution and with Azerbaijan's increasing economic power, President Heydar Aliyev identified four key reform areas comprising: (i) re-organization of state institutions; (ii) adoption of clear and transparent regulations for civil service recruitment; (iii) creation of various anti-corruption preventive and judicial institutions; and (iv) establishment of an anti-corruption policy. President Aliyev next signed the decree on “Strengthening the fight against corruption in the Republic of Azerbaijan” on 8 August 2000, which is considered to be the first indicator of the commitment of political will to the fight against corruption in Azerbaijan. The document clearly indicates that despite reforms having been carried out in the field of fighting against economic crimes, corruption and bribery continued to be widespread in public administration and financial regulatory bodies\n\nThe document also noted that some public officials were misusing their powers to embezzle state property. Furthermore, it stated that legal violations in the private sector and financial regulatory bodies were the main impediments to the establishment of a safe market economy, entrepreneurship and foreign direct investments (FDIs). This anti-corruption decree shows that the fight against corruption came to the state policy agenda almost one decade after the year of independence, and that the main reason behind this document was to attract foreign investment. Another important aspect of this decree is that it assigned tasks to relevant authorities to prepare the draft law and the State Program on Combating Corruption.\n\nCommission on Combating Corruption is set up according to the article 4.2 of the Law of the Republic of Azerbaijan on \"Fight Against Corruption\" and functions as a specialized agency on combating corruption since 2005. Commission is composed of 15 members. 5 members of the Commission are appointed by the President of the Republic, 5 by the Parliament and the 5 by the Constitutional Court. The statute of it approved by the Law of Azerbaijan Republic dated May 3, 2005 defines the authorities of the Commission.\n\nCommission's main objectives are:\nCommission in order to reach its objectives, shall vested with followings:\nCommission shall have other authorities provided by the legislation.\n\nCommission on Combating Corruption (CCC) is the main organization and government body which is responsible for policies and prevention measures to fight against corruption. CCC is also responsible for making progress and action plans according to the requirements of the international organizations Azerbaijan has joined with the purpose of eliminating corruption. Azerbaijan has also adopted National Action Plan for 2016-2018 on Promotion of Open Government (hereinafter Action Plan) which addresses anti-corruption, through public consultations with the help of proposals of several NGOs.\n\nAnti-Corruption (bribery) General Directorate with the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Azerbaijan was established by the Order of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan No.114 dated March 3, 2004. Directorate General - is a body specialized in the field of preliminary investigation conducted on the corruption crimes, and is subordinated to the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Azerbaijan.\n\nMain responsibilities of the Directorate include: consideration and investigation of complaints received in relation to corruption offenses; to institute criminal proceedings and conduct a preliminary investigation of corruption crimes; carry out operational-search activities to prevent, detect and disclose corruption crimes; on the basis of orders of the Directorate to oversee the implementation of laws during the implementation of operational-search measures on corruption crimes by other bodies of operational and search activities; compensation for material damage caused as a result of corruption offenses as well as to implement legal measures to enable confiscation of property; get acquainted with measures on fight against corruption; collect, analyze and summarize information on offenses relating to corruption; to enhance the effectiveness of the fight against corruption make proposals and recommendations; ensure the implementation of safety measures of witnesses, victims, defendants and others involved in criminal proceedings during the preliminary investigation of corruption crimes, as well as during the trial of these crimes; via the Prosecutor General to regularly inform the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan and the Commission for combating corruption about the measures undertaken in the field of fight against corruption; cooperate with the government and other authorities in the field of fighting corruption; to inform the public on their activities, to ensure transparency in its activities, etc.\n\nCorrupt practices, including nepotism and cronyism, were widespread in civil service recruitment in Azerbaijan until 2005 Azerbaijan did not have the necessary legislative and institutional basis to prevent corruption in one of the most important sectors of public administration. The widespread practice used in the recruitment of personnel was based on recommendations and bribes. In addition, Azerbaijan did not have a merit-based recruitment system and the Chief Executives of the executive bodies had wide discretion in appointing any personnel. In 2005, the Civil Service Commission (CSC) was established by Presidential Decree, with the commission legally authorized to conduct civil service recruitment and to place candidates in state positions in a centralized manner based on competition and objective evaluation (OECD Istanbul Anti-corruption Action Plan, 2016). Furthermore, the CSC has powers to audit the ethics compliance of civil servants and to implement state policy on supplementary education, attestation and the social protection of civil servants.\n\nThe CSC has reduced the risk of corruption and has prevented the use of personal affiliations in the civil service recruitment system. Some loopholes are still present in the recruitment system: the OECD Anti-Corruption Network has pointed out that new preventive regulations should also cover the recruitment of high-level civil servants.\n\nIssues of corruption in public service delivery were one of the problematic areas within the public sector. Citizens faced administrative burdens and bureaucratic barriers in obtaining basic public services. In some situations, citizens were extorted to pay bribes to obtain public services. To eliminate corruption in public service delivery, a new preventive institution, namely, the Azerbaijan service assessment network (ASAN) (\"asan\" means “easy” in the Azerbaijani) was established by Presidential Decree in 2012. Currently, this institution provides 34 services for 10 state bodies. It was the first one-stop-shop service delivery model in the world to provide the services of various state bodies rather than only the services of one state body.\n\nNo conflict of interest exists between ASAN service employees and Azerbaijani citizens as ASAN service employees do not provide any kind of service themselves. All services are provided by the employees of the 10 state bodies under one roof, based on the standards of the ASAN service. Employees of the ASAN service monitor the work of the state bodies, check for compliance with ethics rules and manage the queue system.\n\nMonitoring report by OECD has praised Azerbaijan \"for advancing Azerbaijani Service and Assessment Network (ASAN) centers, which has contributed to eliminating the conditions that are conducive to corruption when delivering various administrative services to the public\". Azerbaijan 2016 report by EEAS acknowledged ASAN services have been a great help in the elimination of corruption and bribery, as well as removing bureaucracy in public service delivery.\n\nA similar institution is planned to be established in Afghanistan as well. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the State Agency for Public Service and Social Innovations under the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan and Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Afghanistan on July 12, 2016. The aim of the Memorandum is to establish a public service delivery mechanism in Afghanistan based on Azerbaijani model “ASAN service”.\n\nThe Judicial-Legal Council (JLC), established in 2005, is an independent body and has organizational and financial independence. It is financed from the state budget and its prospective year's budget cannot be less than the previous year's budget. The JLC has 15 members, nine of whom are judges, while five are from the Prosecutor General's Office and the Bar Association of the Republic of Azerbaijan, and one member is from the executive body. The JLC has the competence to carry out the selection of candidate judges and to undertake evaluation, promotion and transfer of judges. Those members of the JLC who are not judges are also granted immunity.\n\nThe JLC has the authority to bring judges to account in terms of disciplinary liability; to discuss the issue of terminating the term of judges; and to propose this course of action to the relevant state body. Furthermore, the JLC has the right to endorse the Prosecutor General's Office to initiate criminal proceedings against judges and to temporarily suspend them from their position. The JLC also analyzes the activities of judges and the organization of the courts; submits proposals regarding the improvement of legislation related to courts and judges; and arranges specialized courses, and relevant seminars and training to raise the level of professionalism of judges. The JLC convenes the Judges’ Selection Committee which has the right to select candidates for vacant judicial posts. This Committee is composed of 11 members, who include judges, JLC staff, representatives of the respective executive body and the Prosecutor General's Office, defence lawyers and academics.\n\nThe main anti-corruption law, the \"Law of 2004 on Combating Corruption\", which defines the directions of the fight against corruption, was adopted on 13 January 2004. This law, which consists of the following four chapters, defines the main principles and framework for fighting against corruption: (i) general provisions; (ii) prevention of corruption; (iii) criminalization of corruption; and (iv) removal of the proceeds of corruption offences.\n\nThis law explained the notion of corruption; introduced a list of corruption offences (stipulating that these offences will give rise to civil, administrative and criminal liability); identified specialized anti-corruption agencies (ACAs); and regulated the general rules on asset declarations, the rule of restrictions on gifts and the prohibition on working together for those who are next of kin.\n\nIn 2006, a new chapter on corruption offences was added to the Azerbaijani Criminal Code. It is important to note that this existing criminal legislation fully addresses the requirements of UNCAC's Article 15 (Bribery of national public officials); Article 16 (Bribery of foreign public officials and officials of public international organizations); and Article 21 (Bribery in the private sector), which together criminalize the active and passive bribery of national/foreign public officials as well as persons carrying out organizational-administrative or administrative-economic functions in commercial and non-commercial organizations.\n\nUNCAC's Article 17 (Embezzlement, misappropriation or other diversion of property by a public official) and Article 22 (Embezzlement of property in the private sector) are criminalized in the Azerbaijani Criminal Code along with Article 178 (Fraud) and Article 179 (Misappropriation and embezzlement of property). Even though public officials are not specified as the subject of Articles 178 and 179, an aggravating condition for both criminal offences is commission of the offence by any person through the use of his/her service position, with this including public officials and people working in the private sector (E-qanun.az, 2016).\n\nIt should be noted that UNCAC's Article 18 (Trading in influence) and Article 19 (Abuse of power) are not mandatory provisions, but both active/passive trading in influence and abuse of power were criminalized in the Azerbaijani Criminal Code with Article 308 (Abuse of power) and Article 312-1 (Trading in influence).\n\nIllicit enrichment, UNCAC non-mandatory requirement, is not criminalized in Azerbaijan's national legislation. Very few states have introduced this corruption offence to their criminal legislation: different controversies about this issue include the point that a reversal of the burden of proof is used in illicit enrichment (Dionisie and Checchi, 2007). To elaborate, in illicit enrichment, public officials are obliged to explain the source of a significant increase in his/her assets and financial situation. It is important to note that the reversal of the burden of proof is contrary to the principles of the presumption of innocence and the protection of property, as laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights (Huseynov, 2014).\n\nIn addition, the Azerbaijani Criminal Code criminalizes the laundering of the proceeds of crime and its concealment: this legislation fully complies with the mandatory obligation arising from UNCAC's Article 23 (Laundering of proceeds of crime) and Article 24 (Concealment). Article 193-1 of the Criminal Code includes two crimes on money laundering. Firstly, the Criminal Code criminalizes the concealment of the real source, disposition, movement or ownership of the rights to money resources and other property, knowing that they have been obtained through illegal acts. Secondly, the Criminal Code criminalizes the carrying out of financial operations, the conversion or the transfer of proceeds of crime.\n\nThe Criminal Code provides for the criminal liability of legal persons with criminal charges incurring the following: sanctions, confiscation, depriving a legal person of the right to engage in certain activities, or liquidation of a legal entity. Even though Azerbaijan's national domestic legislation on the criminal liability of legal persons is advanced, it is not functional as no specific procedures on the criminal liability of legal persons have been adopted in the Criminal Procedure Code. The Criminal Code is not self-executing law: each liability or measure in the Criminal Code has to be regulated with the Criminal Procedure Code.\n\nAzerbaijan's national domestic legislation complies with the requirements of UNCAC's Article 29 (Statute of limitations). Article 75 of the Azerbaijani Criminal Code indicates that a person shall be released from criminal liability if the following time limits have expired since the commission of the act: \nThe Criminal Code specifies that the limitation period is to be counted from the day the crime is committed to the time the court verdict is entered. If a new crime is committed, the limitation period for each crime should be counted separately. The statute of limitations should be stopped if the accused is evading the investigation for the court trial. In this situation, the limitation period should be resumed at the time of detaining the accused or his/her acknowledgement of guilt.\n\nUNCAC's Article 5 (Preventive anti-corruption policies and practices) requires member states to develop and implement or to maintain effective, coordinated anti-corruption policies. In the last 10 years, the Azerbaijani government has adopted five anti-corruption programs:\nIt should be noted that all state programs and action plans were adopted with Presidential Decrees. In the state programs, key anti-corruption laws were adopted; the specialized ACAs began functioning; reforms were implemented in state institutions; and efficient cooperative relationships with CSOs were established. Azerbaijan has ratified all international documents on the fight against corruption. The implemented reforms have positively impacted on economic development, with Azerbaijan becoming a world leader in gross domestic product (GDP) during 2005–2006. As a result of the measures implemented to strengthen financial control, the state budget was dramatically increased.\n\nWithin Azerbaijan's national anti-corruption strategies, national legislation was brought into line with the requirements of international conventions on the fight against corruption. In addition, the Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure Code were amended to criminalize active/passive bribery, trading in influence, abuse of power and other corruption-related offences. These corruption offences were all included in the category of grave crimes. Furthermore, the new \"Law of 2014 on the Prevention of the Legalization of Criminally Obtained Funds or Other Property and the Financing of Terrorism\" was adopted and respective changes were made to the Criminal Code to criminalize money laundering and the financing of terrorism.\n\nThe \"Law of 2011 on Reviewing Citizens’ Appeals\" was amended to reduce the time taken in reviewing corruption-related appeals by state bodies and to receive and respond to appeals in electronic form.\n\nOne of the key preventive legislative Acts, the \"Law of 2005 on Access to Information\" was adopted on 5 December 2005. This law specified the scope of information that should be disclosed by state bodies and indicated the methods to be used for disclosing information and the types of information to be disclosed. In addition, it required state bodies to designate responsible structures or public officials to provide information regarding the work of state bodies. More than 30 laws were amended to satisfy the implementation of this law. The electronic database of Azerbaijan's national legislation was established and made publicly available.\n\nThe \"Law of 2007 on Rules of Ethics Conduct of Civil Servants\" was adopted as were ethics codes for the sectors of prosecutors, judges and employees of the Ministries of Customs and Taxes. This law provided 15 ethics conduct rules including rules: on gifts; impermissibility of acquiring material and non-material gifts, privileges and concessions; prevention of corruption; prevention of conflict of interest; and use of information and property.\n\nArticle 13 (Prevention of corruption) of the \"Law of 2007 on Rules of Ethics Conduct of Civil Servants\" indicates that a civil servant shall refuse any offered illegal material/non-material gifts or privileges. In the case that those gifts and privileges are given for reasons not depending on the actions of the civil servant, he/she should disclose them to the head of the state body and must return those benefits to the state body.\n\nArticle 14 (Prohibition on accepting gifts) of this law provides that the civil servant shall not demand or accept any gift which may influence his/her work. However, a civil servant can accept the gift as a sign of hospitality but this should not exceed the value of €30. If a civil servant is not sure whether he/she should accept the gift, he/she must consult with his/her immediate supervisor.\n\n"}
{"id": "923028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923028", "title": "Declaration of the Rights of the Peoples of Russia", "text": "Declaration of the Rights of the Peoples of Russia\n\nThe Declaration of the Rights of the Peoples of Russia () was a document promulgated by the Bolshevik government of Russia on November 15 (November 2 by Old Style), 1917 (signed by Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin).\n\nThe document proclaimed:\n\n\nThe meaning of the Declaration is still disputed in Russian historiography. In 1917 the Bolshevist thinking was still largely idealistic, dominated by vague ideas of \"universal happiness\". Also, at that moment Bolsheviks believed that the World revolution was imminent, so they did not care much about loss of territories. \n\nHowever, in the cold-war western literature, it is often argued that in fact Lenin and Stalin agreed to liberate mostly the territories they had no sovereignty over since Russia had lost them to Central Powers in 1915 and 1916. Many historians suggest that the purpose of the document was to limit the public dissent after Russia lost most of its western areas and try to complicate the matters behind the front lines. \n\nBut in reality, the declaration had the effect of rallying some ethnic non-Russians behind the Bolsheviks. Latvian riflemen were important supporters of Bolsheviks in the early days of Russian Civil War and Latvian historians recognize the promise of sovereignty as an important reason for that. White Russians did not support self-determination and, as a result, few Latvians fought on the White side.\n\nActually, the right of secession was soon exercised by many nations that earlier had been incorporated into Imperial Russia. Many areas in Russia itself were also declared independent republics. Bolshevist Russia would, however, attempt to establish Soviet power in as many of those as possible. All three Baltic states experienced wars between Soviet governments aiming to establish a Communist state allied with Bolshevist Russia and non-Communist governments aiming for an independent state. The Soviet governments received direct military support from Russia. After the non-Communist side won, Russia recognized them as the legitimate governments of the Baltic states in 1920.\n\nRussian historiography often cited the document as one of the main bases for the liberation of Central European states. However, it is to be noted that Poland, Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Belarus and Estonia were either created as puppet states by the Central Powers or liberated by the nations of the abovementioned countries themselves after the collapse of Germany and Austria-Hungary.\n\nThe following countries declared their independence soon after the Bolsheviks' declaration, establishing themselves as non-Communist states. Although the role this declaration played in their declared independence is doubtful, it eased Bolshevist Russia's recognition of their independence. Except for Finland, all of these areas were outside of Russian sovereignty following the Austro-German successes in the Great War and were officially ceded in the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, but note that the Bolsheviks could not have known this development at the time of the Declaration. \n\n\nThese countries declared their independence, as Communist states, soon after the declaration:\n\n\nSeveral other independent republics were proclaimed but happened to be short-lived:\n\n\nBolsheviks never rejected the idea of self-determination, but the Soviet Constitutions (of 1924, 1936 and 1977) limited the right of secession to the constituent republics only. In 1990 Lithuania declared its independence again, citing their right to secession as written down in the Soviet Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "26765522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26765522", "title": "EqualityMaine", "text": "EqualityMaine\n\nEqualityMaine (formerly the Maine Lesbian/Gay Political Alliance) is a political advocacy organization in Maine, United States. Founded in 1984 after the murder of Charlie Howard, it is the oldest and largest lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) organization in the state. In 2008, they were a primary opponent of an attempt to revoke an anti-discrimination law in Maine. In 2009, EqualityMaine was one of the main supporters of a push to recognize same-sex marriage in Maine.\n\nEqualityMaine's past executive director was Betsy Smith.\n\nOn June 30, 2011, EqualityMaine and Gay & Lesbian Advocates & Defenders (GLAD) announced plans to place a voter initiative in support of same-sex marriage on the state's November 2012 ballot. After leading the effort to gather the signatures necessary for a citizen's initiative, EqualityMaine was among the lead groups of the Maine Freedom to Marry Coalition, the group that led the effort to win the right to marry for same-sex couples in Maine.\n\nIn July 2013, EqualityMaine announced a new, five year strategic plan. That new strategic plan focuses the organization's work on issues that affect LGBT youth, LGBT elders, LGBT people living in rural Maine and transgender Mainers.\n\nThe organization is a member of the Equality Federation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9883560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9883560", "title": "Equality California", "text": "Equality California\n\nEquality California or EQCA is a non-profit civil rights organization that advocates for the rights of LGBT people in California. It is the largest statewide LGBT organization in the United States and the largest member of the Equality Federation. The organization is currently based in Los Angeles.\n\nEquality California is an umbrella organization for the Equality California Institute, a 501(c)(3) organization that conducts public education programs for members of the LGBT community and the general public, as well as for healthcare workers, educators and public policymakers; and Equality California, a 501(c)(4) that maintains three political action committees (PACs), and, as of September 2016 has sponsored passage of more than 118 laws in the California Legislature expanding LGBT civil rights in the state.\n\nEquality California's leadership includes Executive Director Rick Zbur, and is supported by the separate boards of Equality California and Equality California Institute, as well as the Equality Council, a body of LGBT community leaders and allies. Zbur retired from his senior partnership with the law firm Latham & Watkins, where he was the first openly gay partner, to become Equality California's executive director.\n\nWhen Zbur assumed the position of the organization's executive director in 2014, a rapid string of LGBT civil rights victories made it clear that a victory in the two-decade struggle to win marriage equality appeared imminent and that the priorities of LGBT organizations would have to evolve if they were to survive. In the summer of 2014, months before the historic 2015 U.S. Supreme Court decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, Zbur met with boardmembers to assess the organization, its priorities and its place in the LGBT civil rights landscape. The result was a broadly refocused mission designed to address the many, well-documented disparities in health and well-being that LGBT people suffer in comparison to the general population, especially the community's most marginalized members: people of color, the transgender community and LGBT undocumented immigrants.\n\nThe organization divided its new mission and its programs into three areas: ending LGBT disparities in health and well-being, advancing the civil rights and acceptance of LGBT people and achieving a fair and just society for LGBT people and all the communities of which they are a part. That intersectional focus has led the organization to initiate programs and take positions on issues that have not traditionally been a focus of LGBT civil rights organizations, including filing an \"amicus\" brief in \"United States v. Texas,\" calling for the lifting of injunctions on presidential executive orders DACA and DAPA; condemning votes by members of California's congressional delegation to tighten restrictions on Syrian refugees attempting to enter the United States; and advocating for healthcare coverage for California's undocumented immigrants, as well as educating healthcare professionals in the state's Central Valley and Inland Empire regions about the special healthcare needs of LGBT and undocumented populations.\n\nThe California Alliance for Pride and Equality (CAPE) was founded in 1999, and the CAPE Foundation was launched in 2000 to expand education and outreach efforts. In 2003, the organizations became Equality California, the Equality California Institute and Equality California Political Action Committee. During that time, the organization grew exponentially under the leadership of Executive Director Geoffrey Kors. In 2004, Equality California merged with Marriage Equality California in order to better coordinate efforts to pass marriage equality legislation in California. From Marriage Equality USA, EQCA subsumed both the local grassroots organizing chapters of MECA throughout California, as well as hiring their volunteer leadership to become the field staff. The new consolidated programs became a co-branded joint project of EQCA and MECA under the direction of Molly McKay and Geoffrey Kors. For several years local chapters and staff worked as part of the joint project, until eventually the decision was made to drop joint branding and the program became the Equality California field team.\n\nIn 2006, Equality California Institute launched \"Let California Ring,\" an educational campaign aimed at swaying public opinion on marriage equality. Let California Ring produced the well-received \"Garden Wedding\" ad, which aired only in the Santa Barbara media market as part of a study of the effect of various messages on public opinion. It was credited with a 11-point jump in support for marriage equality in the study area, and, in fact, Santa Barbara was the only county in Southern California to vote against Proposition 8 in 2008. Equality California was an organizational plaintiff in \"In re Marriage Cases,\" a consolidation of lawsuits filed by the National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR), American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Lambda Legal, several law firms and a number of individuals challenging California’s marriage laws that excluded same-sex couples. The California Supreme Court on May 15, 2008 ruled that California same-sex couples had a right to marry under the California Constitution. Same-sex couples were able to marry as of June 17, 2008. Voters amended the state constitution to prohibit same-sex couples from marrying in November of that year with the passage of Proposition 8.\n\nAs of the end of the 2016 legislative session, Equality California has sponsored and helped lobby for the passage of 118 bills advancing LGBT civil rights in the California Legislature. Some of the most significant include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe stated purpose of Equality California's Candidate PAC is to \"achieve equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Californians by supporting candidates who share the goals and objectives of Equality California and opposing candidates who do not \" by working to elect openly LGBT and pro-LGBT candidates to state and local office across California. At the state level, the organization endorses LGBT and allied candidates with a 100-percent record of supporting LGBT issues, and, in the case of incumbent legislative candidates, a history of scoring 100 percent on Equality California's \"Equality Scorecard.\" In September 2016, that requirement of 100-percent support led Equality California to take the unusual step of revoking its endorsement of six state legislators, following their abstentions or opposition in a key vote on SB 1146. The organization also endorses openly LGBT candidates at the local level.\n\nEquality California's Federal PAC works to elect LGBT and pro-LGBT candidates to congressional office and the White House through endorsements and direct advocacy.\n\nIn March 2015 EQCA announced its endorsement of Hillary Clinton for president, making it the first LGBT-rights group to endorse Clinton’s then-anticipated candidacy.\n\nEquality California takes positions on selected ballot initiatives that either directly impact LGBT people, the communities of which they are a part, or have a bearing on broader social justice issues. The organization issues \"support\" or \"oppose\" recommendations on initiatives to its members in advance of elections, and has been a lead member of coalitions to defeat several ballot measures, including Proposition 8 and against a failed drive to place a measure on the ballot to overturn AB 1266.\n\n\nAs part of the mission adopted in 2014, Equality California Institute initiated a number of new programs to educate LGBT people and the public at large about issues impacting the LGBT community and the communities of which LGBT people are also a part. Those program areas include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19607220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19607220", "title": "Estonian Provisional Government", "text": "Estonian Provisional Government\n\nThe Estonian Provisional Government () was formed on February 24, 1918, by the Salvation Committee appointed by \"Maapäev\", the Estonian Province Assembly. \n\nThe Provisional Government was led by Konstantin Päts. Jüri Vilms was appointed minister of justice, Jaan Poska minister of foreign affairs, Juhan Kukk minister of finance, Jaan Raamot minister of food and agriculture, Andres Larka minister of war. Villem Maasik was minister of labour and welfare, Ferdinand Peterson minister of roads and Peeter Põld minister of education.\n\nThe main functions of the Provisional Government were lobbying for diplomatic recognition for Estonian independence abroad, oppose the German occupation of Estonia and organise elections to the Estonian Constituent Assembly.\n\nAfter the formation of the Provisional Government the country was occupied by German troops and became administered by Ober Ost. As the result of German revolution and capitulation of Germany in World War I on November 11, the German occupation authorities handed over the power to the Estonian Provisional Government on November 19, 1918.\n\nThe Estonian Provisional Government resigned on May 8, 1919, after the Estonian Constituent Assembly had met on April 23, 1919, and the first elected government of the Republic of Estonia took office.\n\n"}
{"id": "2881577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2881577", "title": "Export subsidy", "text": "Export subsidy\n\nExport subsidy is a government policy to encourage export of goods and discourage sale of goods on the domestic market through direct payments, low-cost loans, tax relief for exporters, or government-financed international advertising. An export subsidy reduces the price paid by foreign importers, which means domestic consumers pay more than foreign consumers. The World Trade Organization (WTO) prohibits most subsidies directly linked to the volume of exports, except for LDCs. Incentives are given by the government of a country to exporters to encourage export of goods. \n\nExport subsidies are also generated when internal price supports, as in a guaranteed minimum price for a commodity, create more production than can be consumed internally in the country. (These price supports are often coupled with import tariffs, which keeps the domestic price high by discouraging or taxing imports on the difference between the world price and the mandatory minimum.) Instead of letting the commodity rot or destroying it, the government exports it. Saudi Arabia is a net exporter of wheat, Japan often is a net exporter of rice.\n\nAt the WTO's Tenth Ministerial Conference, which was held in Nairobi, Kenya from 15 to 19 December 2015, the WTO member states agreed to eliminate export subsidies for agricultural products; least-developed nations have until the end of 2018 to eliminate agricultural export subsidies (until 1 January 2017 in relation to cotton exports), while developed nations agreed to eliminate most such subsidies immediately.\nExport subsidies can cause inflation: the government subsidises the industry based on costs, but an increase in the subsidy is directly spent on wage hikes demanded by employees. Now the wages in the subsidised industry are higher than elsewhere, which causes the other employees demand higher wages, which are then reflected in prices, resulting in inflation everywhere in the economy.\n\nSome countries provide indirect export subsidies in the form of tax reductions. In the United States closely held exporters of U.S. made goods may get a reduction of tax using an Interest Charge Domestic International Sales Corporation (IC-DISC).\n\n"}
{"id": "22267013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22267013", "title": "Food, Inc.", "text": "Food, Inc.\n\nFood, Inc. is a 2008 American documentary film directed by filmmaker Robert Kenner. The film examines corporate farming in the United States, concluding that agribusiness produces food that is unhealthy, in a way that is environmentally harmful and abusive of both animals and employees. The film is narrated by Michael Pollan and Eric Schlosser.\n\nThe film received positive responses and was nominated for several awards, including the Academy Award and the Independent Spirit Awards in 2009, both for Best Documentary Feature.\n\nThe film's first segment examines the industrial production of meat (chicken, beef, and pork), calling it inhumane and economically and environmentally unsustainable. The second segment looks at the industrial production of grains and vegetables (primarily corn and soy beans), again labeling this economically and environmentally unsustainable. The film's third and final segment is about the economic and legal power, such as food labeling regulations, of the major food companies, the profits of which are based on supplying cheap but contaminated food, the heavy use of petroleum-based chemicals (largely pesticides and fertilizers), and the promotion of unhealthy food consumption habits by the American public.\nIt shows companies like Wal-Mart transitioning towards organic foods as that industry is booming in the recent health movement.\n\nMichael Pollan was a consultant and appears in the film. Eric Schlosser co-produced and appears in the film. Participant Media was the production company. The film took three years to make. Director Kenner claims that he spent large amounts of his budget on legal fees to try to protect himself against lawsuits from industrial food producers, pesticide and fertilizer manufacturers, and other companies criticized in the film.\n\nAn extensive marketing campaign was undertaken to promote the film. A companion book of the same name was released in May 2009. Stonyfield Farm, an organic yogurt maker located in New Hampshire, promoted the film by printing information about it on the foil lids of 10 million cups of its yogurt in June 2009.\n\nThe film was shown as a preview at the True/False Film Festival in Columbia, Missouri, in February 2009. It also screened at several film festivals in the spring before opening commercially in the United States on June 12, 2009, in New York City, Los Angeles, and San Francisco. It made $61,400 in its first week. It expanded to an additional 51 theaters in large cities in the U.S. and Canada on June 19. It made an additional $280,000 its second weekend.\n\nThe film was due to be released in the United Kingdom in the summer of 2009; however, its release was postponed until 12 February 2010.\n\nThe producers invited on-screen rebuttals from Monsanto Company, Tyson Foods, Smithfield Foods, Perdue Farms, and other companies, but all declined the invitation. Monsanto says it invited the filmmakers to a producers' trade show, but they claimed that they were denied press credentials at the event, and were not permitted to attend. An alliance of food production companies (led by the American Meat Institute) created a website, SafeFoodInc.org, in response to the claims made in the film. Monsanto also established its own website to specifically respond to the film's claims about that company's products and actions. Cargill told the \"Minneapolis Star Tribune\" that the company welcomed \"differing viewpoints on how global agriculture can affordably nourish the world while minimizing environmental impact, ensuring food safety, guaranteeing food accessibility and providing meaningful work in agricultural communities.\" But the company criticized the film's \"'one-size-fits-all' answers to a task as complex as nourishing 6 billion people who are so disparately situated across the world.\"\n\nFast-food chain Chipotle responded to the documentary in July 2009 by offering free screenings of it at various locations nationwide and stating that it does things differently, which it hopes customers will appreciate after seeing \"Food, Inc.\"\n\nThe film's director, Robert Kenner, has denied attacking the current system of producing food, noting in one interview: \"All we want is transparency and a good conversation about these things.\" In the same interview, he went on to say, \"...the whole system is made possible by government subsidies to a few huge crops like corn. It's a form of socialism that's making us sick.\"\n\nThe film has been highly rated by critics collectively, with a combined rating of 95% on Rotten Tomatoes, and 80 out of 100 on Metacritic. The \"Staten Island Advance\" called the documentary \"excellent\" and \"sobering\", concluding: \"Documentaries work when they illuminate, when they alter how we think, which renders \"Food, Inc.\" a solid success, and a must-see.\" The \"Toronto Sun\" called it \"terrifying\" and \"frankly riveting\". The \"San Francisco Examiner\" was equally positive, calling the film \"visually stylish\" and \"One of the year’s most important films...\" The paper called the picture's approach to its controversial subject matter \"a dispassionate appeal to common sense\" and applauded its \"painstaking research and thoughtful, evenhanded commentary...\" \n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\", too, praised \"Food, Inc.'s\" cinematography, and called the film \"eloquent\" and \"essential viewing.\" The \"Montreal Gazette\" noted that despite the film's focus on American food manufacture, the film is worth viewing by anyone living in a country where large-scale food production occurs. The paper's reviewer declared \"Food, Inc.\" \"must-see\", but also cautioned that some of the scenes are \"not for the faint of heart\". \n\nThe \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" noted that other documentaries and books have examined similar issues before; however, the film was still worth seeing: \"The food-conglomerate angle was covered in a less-ambitious documentary called \"King Corn,\" and a more-ambitious documentary called \"The Corporation\" touched on the menace of the multinationals; but this one hits the sweet spot, and it does it with style.\" The review concluded that the most powerful portion of the film focused on Monsanto's pursuit of legal action against farmers it accuses of improperly saving and reselling or replanting Monsanto’s patented seed, in violation of a signed stewardship agreement and contract not to save and resell or replant seeds produced from the crops they grow from Monsanto seed.\n\nThe Environmental Blog sympathized with the film's message and urged viewers to \"vote to change this system,\" but other reviews have not been as positive. A commentator at \"Forbes\" magazine found the film compelling but incomplete. The picture, the reviewer found, \"fails to address how we might feed the country—or world\" on the sustainable agriculture model advocated by the filmmakers, and that it failed to address critical issues of cost and access. A reviewer for \"The Washington Times\" said the movie was \"hamstrung\" because few corporate executives wished to be interviewed by those documentarians, although the reviewer agreed that the film was aiming for balance.\n\nThe film tied for fourth place as best documentary at the 35th Seattle International Film Festival.\n\nThe film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature Film at the 82nd Academy Awards, but lost to \"The Cove\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7815285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7815285", "title": "Food for Peace", "text": "Food for Peace\n\nIn different administrative and organizational forms, the Food for Peace program of the United States has provided food assistance around the world for more than 50 years. Approximately 3 billion people in 150 countries have benefited directly from U.S. food assistance. The Office of Food for Peace within the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) is the U.S. Government's largest provider of overseas food assistance. The food assistance programming is funded primarily through the Food for Peace Act. The Office of Food for Peace also receives International Disaster Assistance Funds through the Foreign Assistance Act (FAA) that can be used in emergency settings (more information below).\n\nWhile U.S. food aid started out in the 1950s as a means to donate surplus U.S. commodities, the U.S. government moved away from this decades ago, and now purchases food from American farmers through a competitive process. The Office of Food for Peace donates food based on an identified need, in close consultation with the host government requesting the assistance.\n\nDuring the 2010s the program underwent revisions offered by in the Administration's Fiscal Year 2014 budget. These revisions would change the program to provide cash donations rather than American grown and delivered food. On April 24, 2013, the chairman of USA Maritime, a coalition of carriers and maritime unions, wrote a statement which discussed the efficacy of the program and specifically the importance of the U.S. Merchant Marine in delivering the U.S. food aid to people who are undernourished around the world. Henry cited the fact that USAID's own data actually revealed that the traditional efforts to deliver food as opposed to cash transfers for countries to buy their own food is actually 78 percent cheaper per ton of food. Henry offers that this is a significant fact in the effort to address global hunger.\n\nAmerica's food assistance programs began in 1812 when James Madison sent emergency aid to earthquake victims in Venezuela. As director of the American Relief Administration, Herbert Hoover led a $20 million feeding program in Russia during the 1920s under the Russian Famine Relief Act. In 1949, the United States launched the Marshall Plan, which provided large quantities of food aid commodities to the people of Western Europe. The Marshall Plan helped rejuvenate and unite Europe while laying the foundations for a permanent U.S. food assistance program. Many of the European countries the U.S. Government helped at that time have since become major food exporters and important international donors.\n\nOn July 10, 1954, Dwight D. Eisenhower signed the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act — or Public Law (P.L.) 480 — an action which simultaneously created the Office of Food for Peace. By signing this legislation, the President laid \"the basis for a permanent expansion of our exports of agricultural products with lasting benefits to ourselves and peoples of other lands.\" The bill, a solution for food deficient, cash-poor countries, created a secondary foreign market by allowing food-deficient countries to pay for American food imports in their own currencies instead of in U.S. dollars. The law's original purpose was to expand international trade, to promote the economic stability of American agriculture, to make maximum use of surplus agricultural commodities in the furtherance of foreign policy, and to stimulate the expansion of foreign trade in agricultural commodities produced in the United States.\n\nIn 1961, President John F. Kennedy termed the law \"Food for Peace,\" stating, \"Food is strength, and food is peace, and food is freedom, and food is a helping hand to people around the world whose good will and friendship we want.\" Through new amendments, the law switched its focus from disposing of surplus agricultural commodities to addressing humanitarian needs and responding to growing food crisis demands. In signing the extension of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act in 1959, President Eisenhower criticized the shortcomings of the amendment. He specifically referred to the extension as the Food for Peace program. Although Kennedy may have expanded the program, he was not the first to refer to the program as Food for Peace.\n\nFormer U.S. Representative from South Dakota George McGovern was picked to become a Special Assistant to the President and first director of Kennedy's high-priority Food for Peace program, which realized what McGovern had been advocating in the House. McGovern assumed the post on January 21, 1961.\n\nAs director, McGovern urged the greater use of food to enable foreign economic development, saying, \"We should thank God that we have a food abundance and use the over-supply among the under-privileged at home and abroad.\" He found space for the program in the Executive Office Building rather than be subservient to either the U.S. Department of State or U.S. Department of Agriculture. McGovern worked with deputy director James W. Symington and Kennedy advisor Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr. in visiting South America to discuss surplus grain distribution, and attended meetings of the United Nations' Food and Agriculture Organization.\n\nBy the close of 1961, the Food for Peace program was operating in a dozen countries, and 10 million more people had been fed with American surplus than the year before. In February 1962, McGovern visited India and oversaw a greatly expanded school lunch program thanks to Food for Peace; subsequently one in five Indian schoolchildren would be fed from it, and by mid-1962, 35 million children around the world. During an audience in Rome, Pope John XXIII warmly praised McGovern's work.\n\nMcGovern resigned his post on July 18, 1962, wanting to resume his electoral political career. Kennedy said that under McGovern, the program had \"become a vital force in the world\", improving living conditions and economies of allies and creating \"a powerful barrier to the spread of Communism\". Columnist Drew Pearson wrote that it was one of the \"most spectacular achievements of the young Kennedy administration,\" while Schlesinger would later write that Food for Peace had been \"the greatest unseen weapon of Kennedy's third-world policy\".\n\nMcGovern was succeeded by Richard W. Reuter, who had been the executive director of CARE. In 1965, during the Lyndon B. Johnson administration, the program was folded into the State Department under Secretary Dean Rusk. A year later Reuther resigned his retitled position of Special Assistant to the Secretary of State for Food for Peace, reportedly dismayed by the direction the food program had taken.\n\nThe Food for Peace Act of 1966, P.L. 89-808, , revised the basic structure of the programs and placed the emphasis clearly on the humanitarian goals of the program. The policy statement shifted from surplus disposal to planned production for export to meet world food needs.\n\nIn 1990, the U.S. Congress passed, and President George H.W. Bush signed into law the first comprehensive restatement and reorganization of P.L. 480 in the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act (the 1990 Farm Bill). This bill made a significant change in the overall focus of P.L. 480. Once seen as simply an aspect of foreign policy, P.L. 480 now has food security as a primary goal.\n\nIn 2008, the Food for Peace Act formally replaced the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act. Programs are authorized, along with all U.S. agricultural programs, through the Farm Bill which Congress typically amends and reauthorizes every five years.\n\nThe purpose of the Food for Peace Act is to:\n\n\nThe Food for Peace Act includes four sections, referred to as titles, which regulate food aid commodities and development and relief support. The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) manages Title I, while USAID manages Titles II, III and V.\n\n\nThe Title I authority of the Food for Peace Act is administered by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and provides funding for a concessional sales program and the Food for Progress grant program.\n\nThe concessional sales program supports trade and development. The primary objective of the concessional sales component is to provide food assistance to targeted developing countries to promote economic growth. The 1996 Farm Bill modified Title I concessional loans to allow USDA to enter into loan agreements with private entities in addition to its government-to-government mandate. As a result, the new goal of the Title I program was to prioritize areas that had the potential to become commercial markets for U.S. agricultural commodities.\n\nFood for Progress authorizes the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) to finance the sale and export of agricultural commodities to development countries and emerging democracies on credit terms, or on a grant basis, to support developing countries and countries that are emerging democracies and have made commitments to introduce or expand free enterprise elements into their agricultural economies.\n\nSince fiscal year 2006, new funding has not been requested because demand for food assistance using credit financing has fallen or grant programs have been a more appropriate tool.\n\nTitle II is administered by the USAID Office of Food for Peace as authorized in the Food for Peace Act which states\n\nthe Administrator may provide agricultural commodities to meet emergency food needs under this title through governments and public or private agencies […] The Administrator may provide agricultural commodities for nonemergency assistance under this title through eligible organizations.\n\nIt authorizes use of U.S. agricultural commodities for both emergency and development food assistance programs to:\n\n\nTitle II emergency and development programs have provided more than 106 million metric tons of commodities to more than 3 billion people in 150 countries. Title II programs respond to emergencies and focus on reducing food insecurity in vulnerable populations as well as improving resilience to shocks, by incorporating many activities to strengthen local capacity to prevent and respond to natural disasters.\n\nSince 2011, the Office of Food for Peace has begun work to reformulate its food commodities to make them more nutritious. These reformulated products are used for both emergency and development programs.\n\nThe Food for Peace Title III program is a USAID-administered tool for enhancing food security and supporting long-term economic development in the least-developed countries. When funded, the USG donates agricultural commodities to the recipient country and funds their transportation to the point of entry in the recipient country. These commodities are sold on the domestic market and the revenue generated from their sale is used to support and implement economic development and food security programs.\n\nFunds were last requested or appropriated for Title III before 2000.\n\nTitle IV of the Food for Peace Act authorizes active participation of the private sector in storage, marketing, transport and distribution. It requires multi-year agreements and an annual report to Congress. Title IV also contains debt forgiveness provisions and establishes the prohibited uses of food aid, which are:\n\n\nTitle V funds the Farmer-to-Farmer Program which was authorized in the Food Security Act of 1985. The U.S. Congress authorized the FY 2008-2012 phase of the Farmer-to-Farmer Program in the 2008 Food for Peace Act, designating it the \"John Ogonowski and Doug Bereuter Farmer-to-Farmer Program\" in honor of Ogonowski, one of the pilots killed on September 11, 2001, and former Congressman Bereuter, who initially sponsored the program.\n\nThe Farmer-to-Farmer Program provides voluntary technical assistance to farmers, farm groups and agribusinesses in developing and transitional countries to promote sustainable improvements in food processing, production and marketing. The program relies on the expertise of volunteers from U.S. farms, land grant universities, cooperatives, private agribusinesses and nonprofit farm organizations to respond to the needs of host-country farmers and organizations.\n\nTitle VI of the Food for Peace Act authorizes official debt relief. It links Food for Peace and AID debt owed to the United States to the promulgation of structural adjustment and open investment policies. Title VI is administered by the Department of the Treasury.\n\n\nUSAID's Office of Food for Peace manages two programs to support emergency food assistance efforts. Emergency programs authorized under Title II of the Food for Peace Act provide in-kind commodities and associated costs. Emergency programs implemented by Food for Peace using International Disaster Assistance Funds (called the Emergency Food Security Program, or EFSP) provide cash that can be used for local and regional purchase of food and other interventions such as food vouchers and cash transfers. Title II is authorized by the Food for Peace Act, while EFSP is authorized under the Foreign Assistance Act (FAA). EFSP is deployed to respond to the highest priority emergency food security needs as a complement to Title II in-kind food aid. Both programs provide emergency food assistance to address needs arising from natural disasters, such as floods or droughts, and complex emergencies, which are often characterized by insecurity and population displacement.\n\nThe Office of Food for Peace manages development food assistance programs through Title II of the Food for Peace Act, which target the underlying causes of hunger and malnutrition, including interventions in health and nutrition, agriculture, and water and sanitation, among others. These programs focus on approximately 20 priority countries determined based on the weighted average of the country ranking under three food security indicators:\n\nAdditional considerations such as security conditions also factor into countries selected.\n\nThe International Food Relief Partnership (IFRP) is a sub-program of Title II food assistance. IFRP provides small grants to predominantly faith-based groups working on nutritional support programs. IFRP allows for the transportation, delivery, and distribution of shelf-stable prepackaged foods overseas and the establishment and maintenance of stockpiles of the foods in the United States.\n\nUSAID's Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS NET) works with other U.S. Government agencies to monitor, collect, analyze and disseminate critical data and information on conditions of food availability and access in the most food insecure countries. These agencies include the U.S. Geological Survey, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and U.S. Department of Agriculture. FEWS NET provides decision-makers in the U.S. Government, host country governments, and a variety of other regional and international partners timely, unbiased, and insightful early warning and vulnerability information.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52979423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52979423", "title": "Hail, America", "text": "Hail, America\n\n\"Hail, America\" is a regal concert march composed by George Drumm. It is known for its fanfare and trio sections performed during the presidential entrance at state dinners, but is not to be confused with \"Hail to the Chief\", the president's arrival march. It has also been used as the honors music for the President-Elect of the United States.\n\n\"Hail, America\" was composed by George Drumm, a German immigrant to the United States, in 1917 and first publicly performed during a concert in New York City the following year. Drumm appears to have composed the march to rebut questions as to his national loyalty after the United States declaration of war on Germany. According to Drumm, he wrote the march while riding the subway between Manhattan and Brooklyn.\n\nDwight Eisenhower preferred \"Hail, America\" to the traditional arrival march \"Hail to the Chief\" and ordered it performed at the 1953 and 1957 inaugurations to introduce him. Beginning with John F. Kennedy, the use of \"Hail to the Chief\" was resumed.\n\nThe trio section of \"Hail, America\" was performed to introduce then President-Elect Barack Obama during the 2009 U.S. presidential inauguration and, eight years later, to introduce then President-Elect Donald Trump at the 2017 U.S. presidential inauguration.\n\n\"Hail, America\" is performed by \"the President's Own\" United States Marine Band during a short transit ceremony by which the President of the United States moves from the second floor to the state floor of the White House on official occasions. In the ceremony, the president, the First Lady of the United States and, if applicable, a guest of honor and the guest of honor's spouse, descend the Grand Staircase accompanied by a military escort advancing the flag of the United States and the flag of the President of the United States.\n\nThe Grand Staircase was reconstructed in the imperial stair form by Theodore Roosevelt specifically to serve as a stage for the presidential entrance, whose early version had the president followed by a procession of 30 attendants and dignitaries. Cartoons at the time frequently portrayed Roosevelt descending the stairs crowned by a diadem. \"Hail, America\", however, did not become the musical accompaniment to the ceremony until the presidency of Eisenhower.\n\nEarly in the presidency of Jimmy Carter the presidential entrance was scrapped as part of an effort by Carter to make White House events less formal. During the 1977 state visit of Mexico, presidents Carter and José López Portillo descended the staircase without a military escort or the performance of \"Hail, America\". However, Misty Malarkey Yin Yang, Amy Carter's cat, escaped from its room and unexpectedly joined presidents Carter and Portillo, according to one source \"marching down the stairs most regally and surefooted\" at the head of the group. (Another source, however, seems to dispute Misty Malarkey Yin Yang's composure, reporting instead that the cat actually appeared \"very confused\" while leading Carter and Portillo.) The performance of the presidential entrance ceremony was resurrected the following week, during the official visit of Canada. Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau, who had participated in the presidential entrance during previous visits to the United States, at the time remarked \"I love coming in to that music\" in reference to \"Hail, America\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8998606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8998606", "title": "Hans Carl von Carlowitz", "text": "Hans Carl von Carlowitz\n\nHans Carl von Carlowitz, originally \"Hannß Carl von Carlowitz\" (24 December 1645 - 3 March 1714), was a German tax accountant and mining administrator. His book \"Sylvicultura oeconomica, oder haußwirthliche Nachricht und Naturmäßige Anweisung zur wilden Baum-Zucht\" (1713) was the first comprehensive treatise about forestry. He is considered to be the father of sustainable yield forestry.\n\nHans Carl von Carlowitz was born in Oberrabenstein bei Chemnitz. He was the son of forest master Georg Carl von Carlowitz. He studied law and public administration in Jena, learned foreign languages, travelled to France, Russia and Italy in his youth and was engaged in the natural and mining sciences.\n\n1677 he became a mining administrator and in 1711 he became in charge of mining at the court of Kursachsen in Freiberg (Sachsen). Freiberg, which is located in the foot hills of the Erzgebirge, was known for its silver mines. In this post, he was responsible, among other things, for the supply of timber to the mining industry, which employed about ten thousand miners at the time. He died in Freiberg.\n\nThe idea of sustainability, wherever it occurs in the history, emerges in time of crisis and scarcity. Around 1700, the mining industry and livelihood of thousands was threatened in Saxony. It was not that the mines had been exhausted of their ores, the problem was an acute scarcity of timber. The mining industry and smelting of ores had consumed whole forests. In the vicinity of places of mining activity the old growth forests had disappeared completely. Trees had been cut at unsustainable rates for decades without efforts to restore the forests. First, the river systems in the Erzgebirge was engineered, so logs could be transported from ever more distant forest areas, but these measures only postponed the crisis. The prices for timber rose ever more, which led to bankruptcy and closure of parts of the mining industry.\nHans Carl von Carlowitz was raised in and influenced by this environment. He traveled widely in his youth and learned much from the forced discipline of the French minister Jean Baptiste Colbert, who had enacted a forestry reform in France.\n\nHis importance as author is in the fact that he was the first one who comprehensively wrote about forestry. His treatise is a compilation of the knowledge about forest management at the time. He used his own experience to expand the scientific knowledge base that remained after the devastation of the Thirty Years' War. Hans Carl von Carlowitz was the first one to clearly formulate the concept of sustainability in forestry.\n\nThe full title of his book loosely translated is: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5884261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5884261", "title": "House of Deputies", "text": "House of Deputies\n\nThe House of Deputies is one of the legislative houses of the bicameral General Convention of the Episcopal Church in the United States of America. The other is the House of Bishops.\n\nEach diocese of the Episcopal Church, as well as the Navajoland Area Mission and the Convocation of Episcopal Churches in Europe, are entitled to representation in the House of Deputies by four clergy deputies, either presbyters or deacons, canonically resident in the diocese and four lay deputies who are confirmed communicants in good standing.\n\nEach diocese chooses the manner in which deputies are chosen. They are generally elected by diocesan conventions. If a special meeting of the General Convention occurs, the deputies elected to the preceding General Convention continue to serve as deputies. If a vacancy occurs in a diocesan delegation, the diocese determines how a new deputy is chosen.\n\nThe House of Deputies elects a president from among its members as its presiding officer. The president can be of either order. Presidents are elected every three years, taking office at the adjournment of the General Convention at which they were elected and continuing until the adjournment of the following General Convention. Individuals can be elected for up to three consecutive terms. The president appoints an advisory council and a chancellor educated in secular and ecclesiastical law for advice and consultation. A vice president, who must be from a different order than the president, is also elected. In cases of resignation, death, or inability of the president, the vice president performs the duties of the office until a new president is elected.\n\nThe president since 2012 is Gay Clark Jennings of the Diocese of Ohio. She is the first ordained woman to hold the position. The first laywoman to be elected House of Deputies president was Pamela P. Chinnis of the Diocese of Washington (D.C.) (1991–2000). The first layman to be elected to the office of President of the House of Deputies was former Supreme Court Justice Owen Roberts who served in that capacity in 1946. \n\nThe vice president of the House of Deputies is Byron Rushing of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts, elected on July 11, 2012.\n\n\n\nThe secretary of the House of Deputies is elected every three years by majority vote at the start of each General Convention. The secretary certifies deputies and keeps minutes and records of the house. In addition, the secretary also notifies the bishops and secretaries of every diocese to actions of General Convention, especially alterations to the \"Book of Common Prayer\" and the constitution of the Episcopal Church. If the offices of president and vice president become vacant during the triennium, the secretary performs the duties of president until the next meeting of General Convention. With the approval of the house, the secretary may appoint assistant secretaries.\n\nAt each regular meeting of General Convention, the secretary of the House of Deputies is by concurrent action of both houses made the secretary of the General Convention. In this capacity, the secretary oversees the publishing of the Journal of the General Convention. Gregory S. Straub was elected secretary of the House of Deputies and the General Convention in 2006.\n\nIn many cases, a simple majority vote of all deputies is sufficient for a motion to pass. However, the lay or clerical representation of any three dioceses may require a \"vote by orders\". In some cases, the constitution and canons require a vote by orders. In a vote by orders, the votes of the clerical and lay orders are counted separately. Each diocese has a single vote in each order and a majority of dioceses must vote in favor in each order for a motion to pass.\n"}
{"id": "2557110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2557110", "title": "Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park", "text": "Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park\n\nKgalagadi Transfrontier Park is a large wildlife preserve and conservation area in southern Africa. \nThe park straddles the border between South Africa and Botswana and comprises two adjoining national parks:\nThe total area of the park is . Approximately three-quarters of the park lies in Botswana and one-quarter in South Africa. \"Kgalagadi\" means \"place of thirst.\"\n\nIn September 2014, more than half of the Botswana portion of the park was sold for gas-fracking.\n\nThe park is located largely within the southern Kalahari Desert. The terrain consists of red sand dunes, sparse vegetation, occasional trees, and the dry riverbeds of the Nossob and Auob Rivers. The rivers are said to flow only about once per century. However, water flows underground and provides life for grass and camelthorn trees growing in the river beds. The rivers may flow briefly after large thunderstorms.\n\nThe park has abundant, varied wildlife. It is home to large mammalian predators such as lions, cheetahs, African leopards, and hyenas. Migratory herds of large herbivores such as blue wildebeest, springbok, eland, and red hartebeest also live and move seasonally within the park, providing sustenance for the predators. More than 200 species of bird can be found in the park, including vultures and raptors such as eagles, buzzards, and secretary birds.\n\nSince 2005, the protected area is considered a Lion Conservation Unit and a lion stronghold in Southern Africa.\n\nThe weather in the Kalahari can reach extremes. January is midsummer in southern Africa and the daytime temperatures are often in excess of . Winter nights can be quite cold with temperatures below freezing. Extreme temperatures of and up to have been recorded. Precipitation is sparse in this desert area.\n\nWithin the park there are three traditional tourist lodges, called \"rest camps\". These are fully serviced lodges and include amenities such as air conditioning, shops and swimming pools. There are also six wilderness camps in the park. The wilderness camps provide little more than shelter and wash water; visitors must supply their own food, drinking water and firewood.\n\nThe Kalahari Gemsbok National Park in South Africa was established on 31 July 1931 mainly to protect the migrating game, especially the gemsbok, from poaching. In 1948 an informal verbal agreement was made between the then Bechuanaland Protectorate and the Union of South Africa to set up a conservation area in the contiguous areas of the two lands. In June 1992 representatives from the South African National Parks Board Board (now SANParks) and the Department of Wildlife and National Parks of Botswana set up a joint management committee to manage the area as a single ecological unit. A management plan was drafted, reviewed, and approved in 1997. The parties agreed to cooperate in tourism and share equally in park entrance fees. On 7 April 1999, Botswana and South Africa signed a historic bilateral agreement whereby both countries undertook to manage their adjacent national parks, the Gemsbok National Park in Botswana and the Kalahari Gemsbok National Park in South Africa as a single ecological unit. The boundary between the two parks had no physical barriers, although it is also the international border between the two countries. This allowed for the free movement of animals. On 12 May 2000, President Festus Mogae of Botswana and President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa formally launched Southern Africa's first peace park, the Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park.\n\nIn October 2002, the governments set aside 580 km² (224 mi²) for the use of the native peoples, the Khomani San and Mier communities. This was divided between 277.69 km² of San Heritage Land and 301.34 km² of Mier Heritage Land. The South African National Parks (SANParks) manages the land under contract. The settlement agreement also provided for the communities to receive funds for the specific purpose of constructing a tourism facility. The lodge was named !Xaus Lodge (meaning 'heart' in the local language) and is managed commercially on behalf of the ‡Khomani San and Mier communities by Transfrontier Parks Destinations.\n\nIn September 2014, the government of Botswana quietly sold the rights to frack for shale gas in Kgalagadi Transfrontier Park. It granted prospecting licences for , and – more than half of the Botswanan part of the park – to a United Kingdom-listed company called \"Nodding Donkey\". The sale was not reported at the time. In November 2015, the company changed its name to \"Karoo Energy\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1714337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1714337", "title": "List of Scottish Governments", "text": "List of Scottish Governments\n\nThis is a list of all Scottish Parliaments and Governments (called the \"Scottish Executive\" from 1999 until 2008) the time of the introduction of devolved administration for Scotland in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "3225387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3225387", "title": "Lynn Wells", "text": "Lynn Wells\n\nLynn Wells was a civil rights activist in Atlanta, Georgia during the 1960s and was a member of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), the Southern Student Organizing Committee (SSOC), and then a national leader of Students for a Democratic Society and the Revolutionary Youth Movement in the late 1960s. \n\nToday, She is now the Director of the Cooleemee Historical Association and the mayor of Cooleemee, North Carolina.\n"}
{"id": "34958081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34958081", "title": "Ministry of Economy (Afghanistan)", "text": "Ministry of Economy (Afghanistan)\n\nThe Afghan Ministry of Economy is the Afghan Government Ministry in charge of stimulating the Economy of the country. The current Minister of Economy is Abdul Hadi Arghandiwal.\n\nAbdul Sattar Murad 2015–Present\n"}
{"id": "56849736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56849736", "title": "Ministry of General Education", "text": "Ministry of General Education\n\nThe Ministry of General Education is a ministry in Zambia. It is headed by the Minister of General Education and oversees primary and secondary education. Tertiary and vocational education is overseen by the Ministry of Higher Education, which was split from the main ministry in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "13615512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13615512", "title": "Mun Awng", "text": "Mun Awng\n\nMun Awng (born 1960) is a Kachin singer, song writer, and pro-democracy activist. Awng was born in the Kachin State in north of Burma to a small Christian minority. His Christian name was Dennis Daws, a name he later changed. Awng became a popular singer and musician in Burma during the 1980s. Due to having participated in the wave of anti-government demonstrations in 1988, that resulted in more than 3,000 dead civilians, he was forced to leave Burma and has been living in exile in Eidsvoll, Norway since. He fled to Norway to work with the opposition Democratic Voice of Burma radio and television broadcaster. From abroad he continued to release albums and activists sang his songs while facing down the military in both the 1996, and the 2007 anti-government street protests. Awng is considered a \"subversive element\" by the military junta in Burma.\n\nAwng's music is a mix of Western style rock music and east Asian ballads. Since he flew into exile he has not produced more than two albums in the last fourteen years. Even under the scrutiny of the notorious censorship board, the Press Scrutiny Board, Awng managed to produce one album a year in Burma. He occasionally performs his music for Burmese exiles in other countries.\n\nIn 2004 Awng was part of a musical project to raise funds for the US campaign for Democracy in Burma. Together with well-known pop stars such as U2, Avril Lavigne, Talib Kweli and more they created an album dedicated to the famous Burmese democracy activist Aung San Suu Kyi. Awng penned the album's final cut with his \"Tempest of Blood\".\n\n"}
{"id": "498705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498705", "title": "NationStates", "text": "NationStates\n\nNationStates is a multiplayer government simulation browser game. It was created by Max Barry and was publicly released on 13 November 2002, based loosely on his novel \"Jennifer Government\". Barry founded the site as an independent vehicle publicising the book one week before its release. The site continues to promote books written by Barry, but has developed to be a sizeable online community, with over 5 million user-created nations.\n\nIn an interview, Max Barry said the influence for the game began with a questionnaire he took: \"NationStates was influenced by a little political quiz I did once, where you answer a bunch of multiple-choice questions and have your politics categorised. ... It was fun, but I also wanted to see what kind of country my policies created, and have to deal with the consequences.\"\n\nPlayers set up their nation by answering a short questionnaire about their intentions for its economy, civil rights and political freedoms, giving it a name, a flag from current countries and territories or their own, a national animal, a currency, and an official motto. The player's response to the initial questionnaire defines the type of government they are running, though it can change over time as you answer Issues.\n\nGameplay hinges on deciding government policies: Multiple times each day the player is presented with an automatically assigned \"issue\", such as choosing whether to allow a right-wing protest march, or dealing with food shortages in their country. The player chooses a government stance from a list of options, or may choose to dismiss the problem. Each action or inaction affects the prosperity of the player's country, and may have unforeseen effects. For instance, granting greater political freedom may lead to more civil unrest. Some issues are written by the game's developers, while others are submitted by players with in-game \"populations\" of 50,000,000 or greater. For the first 30 days of a nation's existence, only game-created issues can be answered, but after that period any approved issue can be answered. The player's responses to issues affect the nation's status in three main factors: the level of \"Political Freedoms\" and \"Civil Rights\" and the strength of the \"Economy\".\n\nBased on the nation's civil, economic and political freedoms, the nation is assigned to one of 27 government types, from Anarchy, to Inoffensive Centrist Democracy, to Psychotic Dictatorship. Although there is no way of \"winning\" the game, daily \"World Census reports\" are compiled for each region and the entire world, ranking nations on anything from economic strength to the most liberal public nudity laws.\n\nAs of 21 May 2018, there are now 1,000 different issues that nations can be confronted with.\n\nOutside the basic technical parameters of nation play, players can also move freely between regions, and use their status to \"endorse\" each other, making one of them regional World Assembly Delegate, a tactic commonly referred to as raiding. This sometimes, depending on the regional settings, gives the invaders power over the region's appearance, border control, \"embassies\" with other regions, among other powers. Certain regions, such as the Black Hawks, exist to do such, leading to the rise of other, \"defending\" regions who seek to prevent raiders from doing so, such as The Order of the Grey Wardens.\n\nA region is defined as a group of nations which come together in order to interact. They do this on a Regional Message Board, which functions much like a chat room, or on regional offsite forums, through groups such as xenForo and Discord. Furthermore, many regions, particularly larger ones, have \"regional governments\", which involve themselves in the World Assembly, in inter-regional gameplay, and domestic regional affairs. Some of these regions, such as The North Pacific, have adopted democratic governmental models, while others, such as Lazarus, opt for anarchy or other forms of regional government.\n\nNew nations appear in one of five main game regions (known in the game as \"feeders\") located in the NationStates version of the Pacific Ocean (The East, West, North, South and the Pacific), but nations are able to move to other regions, or create their own. Nations that remain inactive and are resurrected are put into three \"sinker\" regions called Osiris, Balder, and Lazarus, all named after characters that purportedly rose from the dead. Nations ejected or banned from a region are moved to a region known as \"The Rejected Realms\". Players may have multiple nations (contributing to the active nation count), but only one nation may be a member of the World Assembly.\n\nThe World Assembly is an international law-making body within NationStates, in which players may submit resolutions that, if they garner enough approvals from regional World Assembly Delegates, reach a vote among all members of the organization (membership is voluntary). These resolutions, some of which are drafted on the forums, have covered a range of international issues, such as human rights and environmental protection, usually written in a format similar to that in a Model United Nations resolution.\n\nInvolvement in the World Assembly has led to an argument among nations as to the merits of national Sovereignty as opposed to the World Federalist Movement (also called International Federalism), which has the power to make binding laws over its member nations. One example of these contentious resolutions was \"Reproductive Freedoms\", which requires member nations to legalize abortion.\n\n\"Jay Is Games\"s Jerrad praised the game stating \"The real beauty in this game is that it's accessible on so many levels.\" In the 2008 book \"The Video Game Theory Reader 2\", Lars Konzack critiqued that it promoted libertarianism but says \"open to experimentation and reflection on politics rather than being merely political propaganda. It becomes a philosophical game in which the player is invited to become part of an examination of political ideas. This game takes advantage of the potential in games to truly put the player in control and let him reflect on his own decisions, investigating political theory turned into meaningful game aesthetics.\" In the 2008 book \"The Art and Science of Interface and Interaction Design, Volume 1\", C. Paul said \"NationStates\" \"is an interesting take on the interplay of freedom and control (and governance without government)\". \"ProgrammableWeb\"s Kevin Sundstrom listed \"NationStates\" among the \"30 New APIs\" remarking its application programming interface \"provides a developer interface for automate game world data collection\".\n\nThe game attracted a thousand nations within two weeks, and had 20,700 by the end of the first year. Barry was surprised by the popularity of the game, and saw its discussion forums developing into an arena for political debate. He was impressed by some of the activity in the forums, relating how \"One nation accused another of conducting secret missile tests and posted photos to prove it. That escalated into an international crisis that was only solved by sending in teams of independent weapons inspectors\".\n\nIn 2008, Barry received a cease and desist order from the United Nations for using the UN name and logo for the international ruling body on the website. In response, he removed the logo and changed the name to the World Assembly on 1 April, which many initially took as one of Barry's annual April Fool's Day jokes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4948376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4948376", "title": "National Conference on Organized Resistance", "text": "National Conference on Organized Resistance\n\nThe National Conference on Organized Resistance (NCOR) was an annual event that brought together activists from a variety of issues, struggles, ideologies and backgrounds for a weekend of learning and reflecting on the state of progressive movements occurring locally, nationally and worldwide. Through diverse workshops, panel discussions, skillshares, tabling, and the creation of an open and safe space, NCOR sought to promote organized action amongst participants against the injustices and inequalities that are confronted in people's daily lives and in the world. NCOR was held on the main campus of American University in northwest Washington, DC, from 1998 to 2008.\n\nWhile the overall political mood of the conference was that of anarchism, the event drew both speakers and participants across the spectrum of the left - from the International Socialist Organization to the Catalyst Project to the Green Party.\n\nNCOR was partially funded by American University's student Club Council, the rest coming from admission to the conference. This had forced NCOR (now an official \"club\" on campus) to adhere to official campus policies, including having to forgo catering by the local Food Not Bombs chapter, as food in AU's student union building must be professionally catered for insurance reasons. \n\nIn October 2008, it was announced that future NCOR events were indefinitely canceled due to no current American University students volunteering to be part of the next organizing collective. \n\n"}
{"id": "20371069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20371069", "title": "Organic Law of Village Committees", "text": "Organic Law of Village Committees\n\nThe Organic Law of Village Committees of the People's Republic of China () consists of 30 articles about self-governance, self-education and elections in Chinese villages.\n\nThe Organic Law of Village Committees sets the rules and regulations under which the Chinese villagers may govern their villages as well as terms and conditions for village elections.\n\nAfter a trial implementation in 1987 the Organic Law of Village Committees was fully adopted in 1998 by the National People’s Congress of China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "378033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=378033", "title": "Parliament of England", "text": "Parliament of England\n\nThe \"Parliament of England\" was the legislature of the Kingdom of England, existing from the early 13th century until 1707, when it became the Parliament of Great Britain after the political union of England and Scotland created the Kingdom of Great Britain. \n\nIn 1066, William of Normandy introduced what, in later centuries, became referred to as a feudal system, by which he sought the advice of a council of tenants-in-chief (a person who held land) and ecclesiastics before making laws. In 1215, the tenants-in-chief secured Magna Carta from King John, which established that the king may not levy or collect any taxes (except the feudal taxes to which they were hitherto accustomed), save with the consent of his royal council, which gradually developed into a parliament.\n\nOver the centuries, the English Parliament progressively limited the power of the English monarchy which arguably culminated in the English Civil War and the trial and execution of Charles I in 1649. After the restoration of the monarchy under Charles II, and the subsequent Glorious Revolution of 1688, the supremacy of Parliament was a settled principle and all future English and later British sovereigns were restricted to the role of constitutional monarchs with limited executive authority. The Act of Union 1707 merged the English Parliament with the Parliament of Scotland to form the Parliament of Great Britain. When the Parliament of Ireland was abolished in 1801, its former members were merged into what was now called the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nUnder a monarchical system of government, monarchs usually must consult and seek a measure of acceptance for their policies if they are to enjoy the broad cooperation of their subjects. Early kings of England had no standing army or police, and so depended on the support of powerful subjects. The monarchy had agents in every part of the country. However, under the feudal system that evolved in England following the Norman Conquest of 1066, the laws of the Crown could not have been upheld without the support of the nobility and the clergy. The former had economic and military power bases of their own through major ownership of land and the feudal obligations of their tenants (some of whom held lands on condition of military service). The Church was virtually a law unto itself in this period as it had its own system of religious law courts.\n\nIn order to seek consultation and consent from the nobility and the senior clergy on major decisions, post-Norman Conquest English monarchs called Great Councils. A typical Great Council would consist of archbishops, bishops, abbots, barons and earls, the pillars of the feudal system. When this system of consultation and consent broke down, it often became impossible for government to function effectively. The most prominent instances of this prior to the reign of Henry III are the disagreements between Thomas Becket and Henry II and between King John and the barons. Becket, who served as Archbishop of Canterbury between 1162 and 1170, was murdered following a long running dispute with Henry II over the jurisdiction of the Church. John, who was king from 1199 to 1216, aroused such hostility from many leading noblemen that they forced him to agree to Magna Carta in 1215. John's refusal to adhere to this charter led to civil war (see First Barons' War).\n\nThe Great Council evolved into the Parliament of England. The term (French \"parlement\" or Latin \"parlamentum\") came into use during the early 13th century, when it shifted from the more general meaning of \"an occasion for speaking.\" It first appears in official documents in the 1230s. As a result of the work by historians G. O. Sayles and H. G. Richardson, it is widely believed that the early parliaments had a judicial as well as a legislative function.\n\nDuring the 13th and 14th centuries, the kings began to call Knights of the Shire to meet when the monarch saw it as necessary. A notable example of this was in 1254 when sheriffs of counties were instructed to send Knights of the Shire to parliament to advise the king on finance.\n\nInitially, parliaments were mostly summoned when the king needed to raise money through taxes. Following the Magna Carta this became a convention. This was due in no small part to the fact that King John died in 1216 and was succeeded by his young son Henry III. Leading peers and clergy governed on Henry's behalf until he came of age, giving them a taste for power that they would prove unwilling to relinquish. Among other things, they made sure that Magna Carta would be reaffirmed by the young king.\n\nOnce the reign of John ended and Henry III took full control of the government, leading peers became increasingly concerned with his style of government, specifically his unwillingness to consult them on decisions he took, and his seeming patronisation of his foreign relatives over his native subjects. Henry's support of a disastrous papal invasion of Sicily was the last straw. In 1258, seven leading barons forced Henry to swear to uphold the Provisions of Oxford, superseded, the following year, by the Provisions of Westminster. This effectively abolished the absolutist Anglo-Norman monarchy, giving power to a council of fifteen barons, and providing for a thrice-yearly meeting of parliament to monitor their performance. Parliament assembled six times between June 1258 and April 1262, most notably at Oxford in 1258.\n\nThe French-born nobleman Simon de Montfort, Earl of Leicester, emerged as the leader of this characteristically English rebellion. In the following years, those supporting Montfort and those supporting the king grew more hostile to each other. Henry obtained a papal bull in 1263 exempting him from his oath and both sides began to raise armies. At the Battle of Lewes on 14 May 1264, Henry was defeated and taken prisoner by Montfort's army. However, many of the peers who had initially supported Montfort began to suspect that he had gone too far with his reforming zeal. His support amongst the nobility rapidly declined. So in 1264, Montfort summoned the first parliament in English history without any prior royal authorisation. The archbishops, bishops, abbots, earls and barons were summoned, as were two knights from each shire and two burgesses from each borough. Knights had been summoned to previous councils, but the representation of the boroughs was unprecedented. This was purely a move to consolidate Montfort's position as the legitimate governor of the kingdom, since he had captured Henry and his son Prince Edward (later Edward I) at the Battle of Lewes.\n\nA parliament consisting of representatives of the realm was the logical way for Montfort to establish his authority. In calling this parliament, in a bid to gain popular support, he summoned knights and burgesses from the emerging landed gentry class, thus turning to his advantage the fact that most of the nobility had abandoned his movement. This parliament was summoned on 14 December 1264. It first met on 20 January 1265 in Westminster Hall and was dissolved on 15 February 1265. It is not certain who actually attended this parliament. Nonetheless, Montfort's scheme was formally adopted by Edward I in the so-called \"Model Parliament\" of 1295. The attendance at parliament of knights and burgesses historically became known as the summoning of \"the Commons\", a term derived from the Norman French word \"commune\", literally translated as the \"community of the realm\".\n\nFollowing Edward's escape from captivity, Montfort was defeated and killed at the Battle of Evesham in 1265. Henry's authority was restored and the Provisions of Oxford were forgotten, but this was nonetheless a turning point in the history of the Parliament of England. Although he was not obliged by statute to do so, Henry summoned the Commons to parliament three times between September 1268 and April 1270. However, this was not a significant turning point in the history of parliamentary democracy. Subsequently, very little is known about how representatives were selected because, at this time, being sent to parliament was not a prestigious undertaking. But Montfort's decision to summon knights of the shires and burgesses to his parliament did mark the irreversible emergence of the landed gentry as a force in politics. From then on, monarchs could not ignore them, which explains Henry's decision to summon the Commons to several of his post-1265 parliaments.\n\nEven though many peers who had supported the Provisions of Oxford remained active in English public life throughout Henry's reign, the conditions they had laid down for regular parliaments were largely forgotten, as if to symbolise the historical development of the English Parliament via convention rather than statutes and written constitutions.\n\nDuring the reign of Edward I, which began in 1272, the role of Parliament in the government of the English kingdom increased due to Edward's determination to unite England, Wales and Scotland under his rule by force. He was also keen to unite his subjects in order to restore his authority and not face rebellion as was his father's fate. Edward therefore encouraged all sectors of society to submit petitions to parliament detailing their grievances in order for them to be resolved. This seemingly gave all of Edward's subjects a potential role in government and this helped Edward assert his authority. Both the Statute of Westminster 1275 and Statute of Westminster 1285, with the assistance of Robert Burnell, codified the existing law in England.\n\nAs the number of petitions being submitted to parliament increased, they came to be dealt with, and often ignored, more and more by ministers of the Crown so as not to block the passage of government business through parliament. However the emergence of petitioning is significant because it is some of the earliest evidence of parliament being used as a forum to address the general grievances of ordinary people. Submitting a petition to parliament is a tradition that continues to this day in the Parliament of the United Kingdom and in most Commonwealth realms.\n\nThese developments symbolise the fact that parliament and government were by no means the same thing by this point. If monarchs were going to impose their will on their kingdom, they would have to control parliament rather than be subservient to it.\n\nFrom Edward's reign onwards, the authority of the English Parliament would depend on the strength or weakness of the incumbent monarch. When the king or queen was strong he or she would wield enough influence to pass their legislation through parliament without much trouble. Some strong monarchs even bypassed it completely, although this was not often possible in the case of financial legislation due to the post-Magna Carta convention of parliament granting taxes. When weak monarchs governed, parliament often became the centre of opposition against them. Subsequently, the composition of parliaments in this period varied depending on the decisions that needed to be taken in them. The nobility and senior clergy were always summoned. From 1265 onwards, when the monarch needed to raise money through taxes, it was usual for knights and burgesses to be summoned too. However, when the king was merely seeking advice, he often only summoned the nobility and the clergy, sometimes with and sometimes without the knights of the shires. On some occasions the Commons were summoned and sent home again once the monarch was finished with them, allowing parliament to continue without them. It was not until the mid-14th century that summoning representatives of the shires and the boroughs became the norm for all parliaments.\n\nOne of the moments that marked the emergence of parliament as a true institution in England was the deposition of Edward II. Even though it is debatable whether Edward II was deposed \"in\" parliament or \"by\" parliament, this remarkable sequence of events consolidated the importance of parliament in the English unwritten constitution. Parliament was also crucial in establishing the legitimacy of the king who replaced Edward II: his son Edward III.\n\nIn 1341 the Commons met separately from the nobility and clergy for the first time, creating what was effectively an Upper Chamber and a Lower Chamber, with the knights and burgesses sitting in the latter. This Upper Chamber became known as the House of Lords from 1544 onward, and the Lower Chamber became known as the House of Commons, collectively known as the Houses of Parliament.\n\nThe authority of parliament grew under Edward III; it was established that no law could be made, nor any tax levied, without the consent of both Houses and the Sovereign. This development occurred during the reign of Edward III because he was involved in the Hundred Years' War and needed finances. During his conduct of the war, Edward tried to circumvent parliament as much as possible, which caused this edict to be passed.\n\nThe Commons came to act with increasing boldness during this period. During the Good Parliament (1376), the Presiding Officer of the lower chamber, Sir Peter de la Mare, complained of heavy taxes, demanded an accounting of the royal expenditures, and criticised the king's management of the military. The Commons even proceeded to impeach some of the king's ministers. The bold Speaker was imprisoned, but was soon released after the death of Edward III. During the reign of the next monarch, Richard II, the Commons once again began to impeach errant ministers of the Crown. They insisted that they could not only control taxation, but also public expenditure. Despite such gains in authority, however, the Commons still remained much less powerful than the House of Lords and the Crown.\n\nThis period also saw the introduction of a franchise which limited the number of people who could vote in elections for the House of Commons. From 1430 onwards, the franchise was limited to Forty Shilling Freeholders, that is men who owned freehold property worth forty shillings or more. The Parliament of England legislated the new uniform county franchise, in the statute 8 Hen. 6, c. 7. The \"Chronological Table of the Statutes\" does not mention such a 1430 law, as it was included in the Consolidated Statutes as a recital in the Electors of Knights of the Shire Act 1432 (10 Hen. 6, c. 2), which amended and re-enacted the 1430 law to make clear that the resident of a county had to have a forty shilling freehold in that county to be a voter there.\n\nDuring the reign of the Tudor monarchs the modern structure of the English Parliament began to be created. The Tudor monarchy was powerful, and there were often periods of several years when parliament did not sit at all. However the Tudor monarchs were astute enough to realise that they needed parliament to legitimise many of their decisions, mostly out of a need to raise money through taxation legitimately without causing discontent. Thus they consolidated the state of affairs whereby monarchs would call and close parliament as and when they needed it.\n\nBy the time Henry Tudor (Henry VII) came to the throne in 1485 the monarch was not a member of either the Upper Chamber or the Lower Chamber. Consequently, the monarch would have to make his or her feelings known to Parliament through his or her supporters in both houses. Proceedings were regulated by the presiding officer in either chamber. From the 1540s the presiding officer in the House of Commons became formally known as the \"Speaker\", having previously been referred to as the \"prolocutor\" or \"parlour\" (a semi-official position, often nominated by the monarch, that had existed ever since Peter de Montfort had acted as the presiding officer of the Oxford Parliament of 1258). This was not an enviable job. When the House of Commons was unhappy it was the Speaker who had to deliver this news to the monarch. This began the tradition whereby the Speaker of the House of Commons is dragged to the Speaker's Chair by other members once elected.\n\nA member of either chamber could present a \"bill\" to parliament. Bills supported by the monarch were often proposed by members of the Privy Council who sat in parliament. In order for a bill to become law it would have to be approved by a majority of both Houses of Parliament before it passed to the monarch for royal assent or veto. The royal veto was applied several times during the 16th and 17th centuries and it is still the right of the monarch of the United Kingdom and Commonwealth realms to veto legislation today, although it has not been exercised since 1707 (today such exercise would presumably precipitate a constitutional crisis).\n\nWhen a bill was enacted into law, this process gave it the approval of each estate of the realm: the King, Lords, and Commons. In reality, this was not a democratic process. The Parliament of England was far from being a democratically representative institution in this period. It was possible to assemble the entire peerage and senior clergy of the realm in one place to form the estate of the Upper Chamber. However, the voting franchise for the House of Commons was small; some historians estimate that it was as little as three per cent of the adult male population; and there was no secret ballot. This meant that elections could be controlled by local grandees, because in many boroughs a majority of voters were in some way dependent on a powerful individual, or else could be bought by money or concessions. If these grandees were supporters of the incumbent monarch, this gave the Crown and its ministers considerable influence over the business of parliament. Many of the men elected to parliament did not relish the prospect of having to act in the interests of others. So a law was enacted, still on the statute book today, whereby it became unlawful for members of the House of Commons to resign their seat unless they were granted a position directly within the patronage of the monarchy (today this latter restriction leads to a legal fiction allowing \"de facto\" resignation despite the prohibition, but nevertheless it is a resignation which needs the permission of the Crown). However, it must be emphasised that while several elections to parliament in this period were in some way corrupt by modern standards, many elections involved genuine contests between rival candidates, even though the ballot was not secret.\n\nIt was in this period that the Palace of Westminster was established as the seat of the English Parliament. In 1548, the House of Commons was granted a regular meeting place by the Crown, St Stephen's Chapel. This had been a royal chapel. It was made into a debating chamber after Henry VIII became the last monarch to use the Palace of Westminster as a place of residence and following the suppression of the college there. This room became the home of the House of Commons until it was destroyed by fire in 1834, although the interior was altered several times up until then. The structure of this room was pivotal in the development of the Parliament of England. While most modern legislatures sit in a circular chamber, the benches of the British Houses of Parliament are laid out in the form of choir stalls in a chapel, simply because this is the part of the original room that the members of the House of Commons used when they were granted use of St Stephen's Chapel. This structure took on a new significance with the emergence of political parties in the late 17th and early 18th centuries, as the tradition began whereby the members of the governing party would sit on the benches to the right of the Speaker and the opposition members on the benches to the left. It is said that the Speaker's chair was placed in front of the chapel's altar. As Members came and went they observed the custom of bowing to the altar and continued to do so, even when it had been taken away, thus then bowing to the Chair, as is still the custom today.\n\nThe numbers of the Lords Spiritual diminished under Henry VIII, who commanded the Dissolution of the Monasteries, thereby depriving the abbots and priors of their seats in the Upper House. For the first time, the Lords Temporal were more numerous than the Lords Spiritual. Currently, the Lords Spiritual consist of the Archbishops of Canterbury and York, the Bishops of London, Durham and Winchester, and twenty-one other English diocesan bishops in seniority of appointment to a diocese.\n\nThe Laws in Wales Acts of 1535–42 annexed Wales as part of England and this brought Welsh representatives into the Parliament of England, first elected in 1542.\n\nParliament had not always submitted to the wishes of the Tudor monarchs. But parliamentary criticism of the monarchy reached new levels in the 17th century. When the last Tudor monarch, Elizabeth I, died in 1603, King James VI of Scotland came to power as King James I, founding the Stuart monarchy.\n\nIn 1628, alarmed by the arbitrary exercise of royal power, the House of Commons submitted to Charles I the Petition of Right, demanding the restoration of their liberties. Though he accepted the petition, Charles later dissolved parliament and ruled without them for eleven years. It was only after the financial disaster of the Scottish Bishops' Wars (1639–1640) that he was forced to recall Parliament so that they could authorise new taxes. This resulted in the calling of the assemblies known historically as the Short Parliament of 1640 and the Long Parliament, which sat with several breaks and in various forms between 1640 and 1660.\n\nThe Long Parliament was characterised by the growing number of critics of the king who sat in it. The most prominent of these critics in the House of Commons was John Pym. Tensions between the king and his parliament reached boiling point in January 1642 when Charles entered the House of Commons and tried, unsuccessfully, to arrest Pym and four other members for their alleged treason. The five members had been tipped off about this, and by the time Charles came into the chamber with a group of soldiers they had disappeared. Charles was further humiliated when he asked the Speaker, William Lenthall, to give their whereabouts, which Lenthall famously refused to do.\n\nFrom then on relations between the king and his parliament deteriorated further. When trouble started to brew in Ireland, both Charles and his parliament raised armies to quell the uprisings by native Catholics there. It was not long before it was clear that these forces would end up fighting each other, leading to the English Civil War which began with the Battle of Edgehill in October 1642: those supporting the cause of parliament were called Parliamentarians (or Roundheads).\n\nBattles between Crown and Parliament would continue throughout the 17th and 18th centuries, but parliament was no longer subservient to the English monarchy. This change was symbolised in the execution of Charles I in January 1649. It is somewhat ironic that this event was not instigated by the elected representatives of the realm. In Pride's Purge of December 1648, the New Model Army (which by then had emerged as the leading force in the parliamentary alliance) purged Parliament of members that did not support them. The remaining \"Rump Parliament\", as it was later referred to by critics, enacted legislation to put the king on trial for treason. This trial, the outcome of which was a foregone conclusion, led to the execution of the king and the start of an 11-year republic. The House of Lords was abolished and the purged House of Commons governed England until April 1653, when army chief Oliver Cromwell dissolved it following disagreements over religious policy and how to carry out elections to parliament. Cromwell later convened a parliament of religious radicals in 1653, commonly known as Barebone's Parliament, followed by the unicameral First Protectorate Parliament that sat from September 1654 to January 1655 and the Second Protectorate Parliament that sat in two sessions between 1656 and 1658, the first session was unicameral and the second session was bicameral.\n\nAlthough it is easy to dismiss the English Republic of 1649-60 as nothing more than a Cromwellian military dictatorship, the events that took place in this decade were hugely important in determining the future of parliament. First, it was during the sitting of the first Rump Parliament that members of the House of Commons became known as \"MPs\" (Members of Parliament). Second, Cromwell gave a huge degree of freedom to his parliaments, although royalists were barred from sitting in all but a handful of cases. His vision of parliament appears to have been largely based on the example of the Elizabethan parliaments. However, he underestimated the extent to which Elizabeth I and her ministers had directly and indirectly influenced the decision-making process of her parliaments. He was thus always surprised when they became troublesome. He ended up dissolving each parliament that he convened. Yet it is worth noting that the structure of the second session of the Second Protectorate Parliament of 1658 was almost identical to the parliamentary structure consolidated in the Glorious Revolution Settlement of 1689.\n\nIn 1653 Cromwell had been made head of state with the title Lord Protector of the Realm. The Second Protectorate Parliament offered him the crown. Cromwell rejected this offer, but the governmental structure embodied in the final version of the Humble Petition and Advice was a basis for all future parliaments. It proposed an elected House of Commons as the Lower Chamber, a House of Lords containing peers of the realm as the Upper Chamber, and a constitutional monarchy, subservient to parliament and the laws of the nation, as the executive arm of the state at the top of the tree, assisted in carrying out their duties by a Privy Council. Oliver Cromwell had thus inadvertently presided over the creation of a basis for the future parliamentary government of England. In 1657 he had the Parliament of Scotland unified with the English Parliament.\n\nIn terms of the evolution of parliament as an institution, by far the most important development during the republic was the sitting of the Rump Parliament between 1649 and 1653. This proved that parliament could survive without a monarchy and a House of Lords if it wanted to. Future English monarchs would never forget this. Charles I was the last English monarch ever to enter the House of Commons. Even to this day, a Member of the Parliament of the United Kingdom is sent to Buckingham Palace as a ceremonial hostage during the State Opening of Parliament, in order to ensure the safe return of the sovereign from a potentially hostile parliament. During the ceremony the monarch sits on the throne in the House of Lords and signals for the Lord Great Chamberlain to summon the House of Commons to the Lords Chamber. The Lord Great Chamberlain then raises his wand of office to signal to the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, who has been waiting in the central lobby. Black Rod turns and, escorted by the doorkeeper of the House of Lords and an inspector of police, approaches the doors to the chamber of the Commons. The doors are slammed in his face – symbolising the right of the Commons to debate without the presence of the Queen's representative. He then strikes three times with his staff (the Black Rod), and he is admitted.\n\nThe revolutionary events that occurred between 1620 and 1689 all took place in the name of parliament. The new status of parliament as the central governmental organ of the English state was consolidated during the events surrounding the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660. Following the death of Oliver Cromwell in September 1658, his son Richard Cromwell succeeded him as Lord Protector, summoning the Third Protectorate Parliament in the process. When this parliament was dissolved following pressure from the army in April 1659, the Rump Parliament was recalled at the insistence of the surviving army grandees. This in turn was dissolved in a coup led by army general John Lambert, leading to the formation of the Committee of Safety, dominated by Lambert and his supporters. When the breakaway forces of George Monck invaded England from Scotland where they had been stationed—without Lambert's supporters putting up a fight—Monck temporarily recalled the Rump Parliament and reversed Pride's Purge by recalling the entirety of the Long Parliament. They then voted to dissolve themselves and call new elections, which were arguably the most democratic for 20 years although the franchise was still very small. This led to the calling of the Convention Parliament which was dominated by royalists. This parliament voted to reinstate the monarchy and the House of Lords. Charles II returned to England as king in May 1660. The Anglo-Scottish parliamentary union that Cromwell had established was dissolved in 1661 when the Scottish Parliament resumed its separate meeting place in Edinburgh.\n\nThe Restoration began the tradition whereby all governments looked to parliament for legitimacy. In 1681 Charles II dissolved parliament and ruled without them for the last four years of his reign. This followed bitter disagreements between the king and parliament that had occurred between 1679 and 1681. Charles took a big gamble by doing this. He risked the possibility of a military showdown akin to that of 1642. However he rightly predicted that the nation did not want another civil war. Parliament disbanded without a fight. Events that followed ensured that this would be nothing but a temporary blip.\n\nCharles II died in 1685 and he was succeeded by his brother James II. During his lifetime Charles had always pledged loyalty to the Protestant Church of England, despite his private Catholic sympathies. James was openly Catholic. He attempted to lift restrictions on Catholics taking up public offices. This was bitterly opposed by Protestants in his kingdom. They invited William of Orange, a Protestant who had married Mary, daughter of James II and Anne Hyde to invade England and claim the throne. William assembled an army estimated at 15,000 soldiers (11,000 foot and 4000 horse) and landed at Brixham in southwest England in November, 1688. When many Protestant officers, including James's close adviser, John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough, defected from the English army to William's invasion force, James fled the country. Parliament then offered the Crown to his Protestant daughter Mary, instead of his son (James Francis Edward Stuart). Mary refused the offer, and instead William and Mary ruled jointly, with both having the right to rule alone on the other's death. As part of the compromise in allowing William to be King—called the Glorious Revolution—Parliament was able to have the 1689 Bill of Rights enacted. Later the 1701 Act of Settlement was approved. These were statutes that lawfully upheld the prominence of parliament for the first time in English history. These events marked the beginning of the English constitutional monarchy and its role as one of the three elements of parliament.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Union in 1707, Acts of Parliament passed in the Parliament of England and the Parliament of Scotland created a new Kingdom of Great Britain and dissolved both parliaments, replacing them with a new Parliament of Great Britain based in the former home of the English parliament. The Parliament of Great Britain later became the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1801 when the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland was formed through the Act of Union 1800.\n\n\nTwo European cities, both annexed from and later ceded to the Kingdom of France were represented in the Parliament as borough constituencies while they were English possessions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40287572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40287572", "title": "Paul Ingram (nuclear disarmament expert)", "text": "Paul Ingram (nuclear disarmament expert)\n\nPaul Ingram is the Executive Director of the British American Security Information Council (BASIC), a think tank focusing on nuclear disarmament based in London and Washington, D.C. He lives in London with his wife and two children.\n\nPaul is an expert on the global nuclear disarmament debate and transatlantic security, specifically on issues relating to the UK nuclear weapons system, UK-US transatlantic security, NATO's nuclear posture, Iran's nuclear programme, nuclear proliferation politics in the Middle East, and U.S./Russia bilateral arms reduction treaties. As well as coordinating BASIC’s activities, Paul leads, in particular, BASIC's work in the UK debate on Trident renewal, developing narratives for nuclear non-proliferation in the Middle East, and engaging with officials in Europe and within NATO to reduce reliance on nuclear weapons and extended deterrence. Recent work of his includes an assessment of the Trident Alternative Review and Trident in UK Politics and Public Opinion, analysis of further nuclear reduction negotiations with Russia and a summary of prospects for nuclear non-proliferation in the Middle East.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2002, Paul worked as a researcher and Project Leader for the Oxford Research Group before joining BASIC as an analyst in 2002 and being appointed Co-Executive Director in November 2007, and Executive Director in April 2008. In January 2008 he also started hosting a peak-time talk show each Friday evening on Iranian national television broadcast in Persian in Iran (IRINN), a post he held for 5½ years until July 2012. From February 2008 Paul also taught Systems Approaches at the UK government's National School of Government as core element of its flagship three-week Top Management Programme for senior civil servants until the National School was closed in 2012. Before joining BASIC, Paul was involved in local politics for the Green Party in Oxford; he was elected the first Green Vice-President to Oxford University Student Union for 1998-1999, and later served as Green City Councillor for Central Ward (1996-2002) and Co-Leader of the City Council (2000-2002) in a joint Green-Liberal Democrat Administration. In 2004 he was election coordinator for the London Euro, Mayoral and Assembly elections, and was second on the Green list in the European Election. He was also Warden of Oxford Quaker Meeting House 1994-1997, and has served on the Quaker Council for European Affairs and several national Quaker committees. He received his BA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from the University of Oxford in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "34951626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34951626", "title": "Peripheral nationalism", "text": "Peripheral nationalism\n\nPeripheral nationalism refers to the nationalist sentiments of some regions or territorial entities within a sovereign state, in occasions in conflict with the larger concept of the nation-state in which they reside, and trying to construct a minority social space. Peripheral nationalism is so called because the regions in which it exists are at the \"periphery\" as opposed to the \"center\" of the territory of the State.\n\nPeripheral nationalism occurs in a culturally or linguistically distinctive territory — and oftentimes with a different socioeconomic degree of development — that resists incorporation or assimilation into an expanding State, or resists the larger Statewide nationalist construction. Existing theories of peripheral nationalism explain that the emergence of peripheral nationalism occurs in regions with a larger or greater degree of economic development in relation to the rest of the State, overlapping spatially delimited ethnic communities, as it is the case in the Basque Country or Catalonia in Spain, or Xinjiang in China. Nonetheless, peripheral nationalism may also emerge in regions with \"lesser\" economic development, as was the case in Ireland or Scotland. Peripheral nationalism may also emerge in opposition to the State seeking legitimacy through hegemony or domination by imposing a nationalistic sentiment which is then resisted by the smaller peripheral nationalisms, which defend their \"cultural nation.\"\n\nEven if the aim of peripheral nationalists is emancipation, their solution may not be the creation of a nation-state for themselves, in which case a federal solution is preferred, according with the concept of \"regional pluralism\" in opposition to monism or imperialism. Peripheral nationalisms may demand a recognition of the national identity of their own regions (i.e. their own existence as a \"nation\"). The existence of such nations may coexist within the State they belong to (e.g. by proposing the concept of a \"nation composed of several nations\" or a \"nation of nations\"), or they may defend their right to self-determination, secession, and the ability to create their own independent State.\n\n"}
{"id": "56132595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56132595", "title": "Red Spears' uprising in Shandong (1928–1929)", "text": "Red Spears' uprising in Shandong (1928–1929)\n\nThe Red Spear Society staged a major uprising in 1928/29 against the rule of Liu Zhennian, the Nationalist government-aligned warlord ruler of eastern Shandong province in Republican China. Motivated by their resistance against high taxes, rampant banditry and the brutality of Liu's private army, the Red Spear peasant insurgents captured large areas on the Shandong Peninsula and were able to set up a proto-state in Dengzhou county. Despite this, the whole insurgency was eventually crushed by Liu in late 1929.\n\nThe Red Spear Society was a movement and network of peasant self-defense and vigilante militias that sprung up throughout China in response to the chaos of the Warlord Era in the 1910s and 1920s. As the influence of the Red Spears grew, branches of the movement were set up in several Chinese provinces, such as Shandong. The largest area of Red Spears activity in Shandong was its western counties, while the Shandong Peninsula in the east remained relatively calm until the late 1920s. The only eastern area with a large Red Spears presence was Laiyang county.\n\nThis changed in fall of 1928, as banditry on the peninsula rapidly increased, leading to additional villages joining the Red Spear Society to defend themselves. The Red Spears' power and influence consequently grew greatly. Meanwhile, the situation for the civilian population in eastern Shandong worsened due to the ascension of Liu Zhennian. Liu, a former subordinate of Fengtian warlord Zhang Zongchang, defected to the Nationalists during the Northern Expedition in 1928. In return, the new Nationalist government in Nanjing allowed him to keep the Shandong Peninsula as his personal fiefdom. Liu's rule was marked by the brutality of his private army, and high taxes (though these taxes were still lower than those under the previous regime of Zhang Zongchang). Furthermore, Liu did nothing to curb the widespread and escalating banditry. All this motivated additional peasants to join the Red Spears and the peasant movement to take a more aggressive stance against the perceived oppression by the government.\n\nThe situation began to escalate in late 1928, as the Red Spears organized a militant tax resistance, so that officials no longer dared to venture into areas held by the peasant movement such as Laiyang and Zhaoyuan. The escalating Red Spears' revolt was helped by the deteriorating security in Shandong, as elements of Liu's army mutinied at Longkou and Huangxian in January 1929 and then fled into areas controlled by the Red Spears. This mutiny was followed by a full-blown rebellion of demobilized ex-warlord troops led by Zhang Zongchang who wanted to regain control of Shandong. This insurgency devastated the northern Shandong Peninsula, as over 50 villages and six towns were destroyed by rebel troops. Both Zhang's followers as well as Liu's soldiers plundered, murdered and raped civilians, while captured women and girls were sold as slaves on Huangxian's market for 10–20 Mexican dollars (the Mexican silver dollar was the main currency used in China at the time). This chaos allowed the Red Spears to further increase their power, as the desperate rural population flocked en masse to their cause in order to receive at least some protection from the rampaging soldiers and bandits.\n\nBy the time Liu Zhennian managed to crush the warlord rebellion in summer 1929, the Red Spear Society had grown so powerful that it had set up a proto-state in Dengzhou county. There, it had established a headquarters, named a magistrate, taken over the local administration and introduced land as well as head taxes in order to fund itself. In several other counties the peasant rebels at least prevented tax collection by government officials. The Red Spears also introduced compulsory membership to a certain degree, so that at least one member of every family in those villages the insurgents controlled had to be a Red Spear. Those among the rural population who worked at Zhifu were also forced to pay a special tax which was used by the Red Spears to buy weapons and ammunition. Access to the insurgent areas was tightly controlled, and anyone wearing a government or military uniform was shot on sight. At this point, even those who did not speak the local dialect and therefore appeared to be outsiders, no longer dared to venture into the Red Spears' territory. The peasant insurgents even came to behave like a mafia, looting, raping, robbing and kidnapping for ransom. The victims of these activities mostly belonged to the wealthier upper class or were Christians, who consequently fled into the city of Dengzhou. As historian Lucien Bianco noted, secret societies in rural China had the \"chronic tendency to degenerate into gangs\", though at least some of the peasant rebels' criminal activities may have stemmed from military necessity.\n\nThe number of Red Spears on the Shandong Peninsula had grown to about 50,000–60,000 in August 1929, and the peasant movement had thus become so strong that Liu Zhennian could no longer ignore them as he had done before. On 23 September, he launched an encirclement campaign between Dengzhou and Huangxian, pursuing a scorched earth policy to force the rebels into submission. His soldiers completely destroyed 18 villages and largely burned more than sixty others, killing all inhabitants they encountered, including women and children. By November, the Red Spears had ceased to exist in the area.\n\nOverall, once Liu had decided to finally take action, he had been able to crush the uprising relatively quickly and easily. According to Bianco, this was typical of rural rebellions at the time, which had only a chance to succeed as long as no concentrated action was undertaken against them by government representatives. Despite continued challenges to his rule, Liu himself remained in power until he was defeated in a war with the ruler of western Shandong, Han Fuju, in 1932. Han was a relatively capable and popular civilian administrator, and his reign restored order and stability on the Shandong Peninsula.\n\nOn the other side, many of those peasant rebels who had escaped or simply survived Liu's ruthless campaign found themselves with the official magistrate of Zhaoyuan. He gave the remaining Red Spears leaders jobs and enlisted the common fighters among the ex-insurgents into a local militia. This was an attempt to win them over, so that they would not resume their struggle against the authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "53117141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53117141", "title": "Regulation Law", "text": "Regulation Law\n\nThe Judea and Samaria Settlement Regulation Law (), commonly known as the Regulation Law () or sometimes the Regularization Law, is an Israeli law that aims to retroactively legalize Israeli settlements in the West Bank Area C under the Oslo Accords. It is meant to \"regulate\" the status of about 2,000 to 4,000 residences in 16 settlements which were built on Palestinian-owned lands. The Knesset passed the legislation 60 to 52, on February 6, 2017. According to the law, the land on which the residences are built will remain that of the legal owners, but their usage will be expropriated by the State. In exchange, the Palestinian owners will be compensated at a rate of 125%, or receive alternate lands (whenever possible). The law is known by some of its critics as the \"Expropriation Law\" () due to its land expropriation components. The Israeli occupation of the West Bank is considered a breach of international law, though Israel disputes this.\n\nDuring the last decade of the 20th century and at the beginning of the 21st century, a number of outposts as well as neighborhoods in established settlements, were built in areas that are listed in the Judea and Samaria land registration as lands privately owned by Palestinians. At the beginning of the 21st century, several of these Palestinian owners petitioned the Supreme Court of Israel, claiming those residencies were built on their own private land. In some of these instances, the Court acknowledged their property rights and directed to demolish houses, such as: at a neighborhood in Beit El, at the Amona outpost, nine houses in Ofra, and more. Great efforts by the government to prevent these demolitions resulted in some of the proceeding extending over the course of years, but did not end up halting the demolitions. To prevent this from reoccurring, MPs of parties from the right drafted legislation that would prevent such judicial rulings of demolition of houses in the settlements of Judea and Samaria.\n\nOn February 8, 2017 the law was brought before the Supreme Court of Israel by 17 Palestinian local governments and three human rights organizations. Attorney General of Israel Avichai Mandelblit has announced that he will not be defending the law on behalf of the government at the Supreme Court because he deems it unconstitutional, and that it may lead to a suit against Israel at the International Criminal Court. Israeli Justice Minister Ayelet Shaked, whose party The Jewish Home was behind the legislation, responded by saying that the State plans to hire a private lawyer to represent it.\n\nSpeaking for the Palestinian National Authority, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has termed the law \"an aggression against our people\". The law has also been criticized internationally, including by allies of Israel. UN envoy for the Middle East peace process Nickolay Mladenov said the law \"crosses a very thick red line.\" EU foreign policy chief Federica Mogherini stated that: \"The European Union condemns the recent adoption of the 'Regularisation Law,'\" adding that it \"crosses a new and dangerous threshold by legalizing under Israeli law the seizure of Palestinian property rights.\" Tobias Ellwood UK Minister for the Middle East and Africa had said that: \"As a longstanding friend of Israel, I condemn the passing of the Land Regularisation Bill by the Knesset, which damages Israel’s standing with its international partners.\" The German Foreign Ministry stated that its \"trust in the Israeli government’s commitment to the two-state solution” had been \"fundamentally shaken\". As well, French Ambassador to Israel, Hélène Le Gal, said that the law brought Israel to \"a path which is not leading to peace\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24115", "title": "Religious affiliations of Presidents of the United States", "text": "Religious affiliations of Presidents of the United States\n\nThe religious affiliations of Presidents of the United States can affect their electability, shape their stances on policy matters and their visions of society and also how they want to lead it. Speculation of Thomas Jefferson,\nAbraham Lincoln, and William Howard Taft being atheists was reported during election campaigns, while others, such as Jimmy Carter, used faith as a defining aspect of their campaigns and tenure to hold the office. Almost all of the presidents can be characterized as Christian, at least by upbringing, though some were unaffiliated with any specific religious body. Protestants predominate, with Episcopalians and Presbyterians being the most prevalent. There have been four Nontrinitarian presidents, and a single Roman Catholic president (John F. Kennedy). No president thus far has been openly an atheist. However, it has been acknowledged that two US Presidents—Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Johnson—had no religious affiliation.\n\nMost presidents have been formal members of a particular church or religious body, and a specific affiliation can be assigned to every president from James A. Garfield on. For many earlier presidents, however, formal church membership was forestalled until they left office; and in several cases a president never joined any church. Conversely, though every president from George Washington to John Quincy Adams can be definitely assigned membership in an Anglican or Unitarian body, the significance of these affiliations is often downplayed as unrepresentative of their true beliefs.\n\nThe pattern of religious adherence has changed dramatically over the course of United States history, so that the pattern of presidential affiliations is quite unrepresentative of modern membership numbers. For example, Episcopalians are extraordinarily well represented among the presidents compared to a current membership of about 2% of the population; this is partly because the Church of England, from which the Episcopal Church is derived, was the established church in some of the British Colonies (such as New York and Virginia) before the American Revolution. The Episcopal Church has been much larger previously, with its decline in membership occurring only in more recent decades. The first seven presidents listed as Episcopalians were all from Virginia. Unitarians are also overrepresented, reflecting the importance of those colonial churches. Conversely, Baptists are underrepresented, a reflection of their quite recent expansion in numbers; there has been only one Catholic president, although they are currently the largest single denomination, and there have been no Adventist, Anabaptist, Lutheran, Orthodox, Pentecostal, or Latter Day Saint presidents.\n\nWhile many presidents did not formally join a church until quite late in life, there is a genre of tales of deathbed conversions. Biographers usually doubt these, though the baptism of James K. Polk is well documented.\n\nThe inner beliefs of the presidents are much more difficult to establish than church membership. While some presidents have been relatively voluble about religion, many have been reticent to the point of complete obscurity. Researchers have tried to draw conclusions from patterns of churchgoing or religious references in political speeches. When explicit statements are absent, it is difficult to assess whether the presidents in question were irreligious, were unorthodox in their beliefs, or simply believed that religion was not a matter for public revelation.\n\nOn the other hand, there are several presidents who considered themselves aligned with a particular church, but who withheld from formal affiliation for a time. James Buchanan, for instance, held himself allied with the Presbyterian church, but refrained from joining it until he left office.\n\nSome presidents changed their beliefs and affiliation at some point in their lives; synthesis of statements and membership from different periods can be misleading.\n\nDeism was a religious philosophy in common currency in colonial times, and some Founding Fathers (most notably Thomas Paine, who was an explicit proponent of it, and Benjamin Franklin, who spoke of it in his Autobiography) are identified more or less with this system. Thomas Jefferson became a deist in later life, and Washington, James Madison, James Monroe, and John Tyler are often identified as having some degree of deistic beliefs.\n\nFour presidents are affiliated with Unitarian churches, and a fifth (Jefferson) was an exponent of ideas now commonly associated with Unitarianism. Unitarians fall outside of Trinitarian Christianity, and the question arises as to the degree to which the presidents themselves held Christian precepts. The information is generally available in the statements of the presidents themselves; for example, John Quincy Adams left detailed statements of his beliefs. William Howard Taft, a Unitarian, is noted to have said in a letter to a friend, \"I am interested in the spread of Christian civilization, but to go into a dogmatic discussion of creed I will not do whether I am defeated or not. . . . If the American electorate is so narrow as not to elect a Unitarian, well and good. I can stand it.\"\n\nTwo presidents were Quakers (Herbert Hoover and Richard Nixon) and information about their religion is harder to come by. Quakerism is, by its nature, not circumscribed by doctrines, but even so it is hard to determine whether either Hoover or Nixon had much adherence even to Quaker practice. For instance, it is common among Quakers to refuse to swear oaths; however, recordings show that Nixon did swear the oath of office in the conventional manner in all cases, and while the matter is clouded for Hoover, there is newspaper and circumstantial evidence that he did likewise. While Abraham Lincoln never officially joined a church, there has been some research indicating that he may have had Quaker leanings. During his time in office, he had numerous meetings with Quakers and had investigated a supposed Quaker ancestry.\n\nThe only other president with any association with a definitely non-Trinitarian body is Dwight D. Eisenhower, whose parents moved from the River Brethren to the antecedents of the Jehovah's Witnesses. Eisenhower himself was baptized in the Presbyterian church shortly after assuming the presidency, the only president thus far to undergo such a rite while in office; and his attendance at West Point was in sharp opposition to the tenets of the groups to which his parents belonged.\n\nThere are some presidents for whom there is little evidence as to the importance of religion in their lives. For example, almost no evidence exists for Monroe's personal religious beliefs, though this may be the result of the destruction of most of his personal correspondence, in which religious sentiments may have been recorded. As with claims of deism, these identifications are not without controversy. No president has declared himself to be atheist.\n\nSt. John's Episcopal Church (built 1815-1816) just across Lafayette Square and north of the White House, is the church nearest to the White House, and its services have been attended at least once by nearly every President since James Madison (1809–1817). Another Episcopal church, Washington National Cathedral, chartered by Congress in 1893, has been the scene of many funeral and memorial services of Presidents and other dignitaries, as well as the site of interfaith presidential prayer services after their inaugurations, and the burial place of Woodrow Wilson.\n\nPresidential proclamations, from the earliest days, have often been laden with religious if not explicitly Christian language. In at least two cases, Presidents saw fit to issue denials that they were atheists. At the same time, this was tempered, especially in early years, by a strong commitment to disestablishment. Several Presidents especially stand out as exponents of this. Consideration of this has become increasingly contentious as topics such as civil rights and human sexuality have increasingly put churches at odds with each other and with the government.\n\nPresidential biographers have often been brought to consider the issue of presidential religion. In the case of certain key figures (particularly Washington, Jefferson, and Lincoln), they have devoted considerable attention to the subject.\n\nSome researchers have produced general surveys of presidential religion. A recent example is \"The Faiths of the Founding Fathers\" by David L. Holmes (New York, Oxford University Press USA, 2006), which examines the views of some early presidents as well as other political figures of the period. The Adherents.com website maintains a list of presidential affiliations, with subpages for each president. Most of these subpages refer to a site by one Peter Roberts, which has links and some more detailed information on the religion of the presidents, vice presidents, and founding fathers.\n\nFor each president, the formal affiliation at the time of his presidency is listed first, with other affiliations listed after. Further explanation follows if needed, as well as notable detail.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "507981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=507981", "title": "Religious antisemitism", "text": "Religious antisemitism\n\nReligious antisemitism is aversion to or discrimination against Jews as a whole based on religious beliefs, false claims against Judaism and religious antisemitic canards. It is sometimes called theological antisemitism.\n\nSome scholars have argued that modern antisemitism is primarily based on nonreligious factors. John Higham being emblematic of this school of thought. However, this interpretation has been challenged. In 1966 Charles Glock and Rodney Stark first published public option polling data showing that most Americans based their stereotypes of Jews on religion. Further opinion polling since in America and Europe has supported this conclusion.\n\nFather Edward Flannery in his \"The Anguish of the Jew: Twenty-Three Centuries of Antisemitism\", traces the first clear examples of specific anti-Jewish sentiment back to Alexandria in the third century BCE. Flannery writes that it was the Jews' refusal to accept Greek religious and social standards that marked them out. Hecataetus of Abdera, a Greek historian of the early third century BCE, wrote that Moses \"in remembrance of the exile of his people, instituted for them a misanthropic and inhospitable way of life.\" Manetho, an Egyptian historian, wrote that the Jews were expelled Egyptian lepers who had been taught by Moses \"not to adore the gods.\" The same themes appeared in the works of Chaeremon, Lysimachus, Poseidonius, Apollonius Molon, and in Apion and Tacitus. Agatharchides of Cnidus wrote about the \"ridiculous practices\" of the Jews and of the \"absurdity of their Law,\" and how Ptolemy Lagus was able to invade Jerusalem in 320 BCE because its inhabitants were observing the Sabbath.\n\nChristian religious antisemitism is often expressed as anti-Judaism, i.e., it is argued that the antipathy is to the practices of Judaism. As such, it is argued, antisemitism would cease if Jews stopped practicing or changed their public faith, especially by conversion to Christianity, the official or right religion. However, there have been times when converts were also discriminated against, as in the case of liturgical exclusion of Jewish converts in the case of Christianized \"Marranos\" or Iberian Jews in the late 15th century and 16th century accused of secretly practising Judaism or Jewish customs.\n\nFrederick Schweitzer and Marvin Perry write that the authors of the gospel accounts sought to place responsibility for the Crucifixion of Jesus and his death on Jews, rather than the Roman emperor or Pontius Pilate. As a result, Christians for centuries viewed Jews as \"the Christ Killers\". The destruction of the Second Temple was seen as judgment from God to the Jews for that death, and Jews were seen as \"a people condemned forever to suffer exile and degradation\". According to historian Edward H. Flannery, the Gospel of John in particular contains many verses that refer to Jews in a pejorative manner.\n\nIn , Paul states that the Churches in Judea had been persecuted by the Jews who killed Jesus and that such people displease God, oppose all men, and had prevented Paul from speaking to the gentile nations concerning the New Testament message. Described by Hyam Maccoby as \"the most explicit outburst against Jews in Paul's Epistles\", these verses have repeatedly been employed for antisemitic purposes. Maccoby views it as one of Paul's innovations responsible for creating Christian antisemitism, though he notes that some have argued these particular verses are later interpolations not written by Paul. Craig Blomberg argues that viewing them as antisemitic is a mistake, but \"understandable in light of [Paul's] harsh words\". In his view, Paul is not condemning all Jews forever, but merely those he believed had specifically persecuted the prophets, Jesus, or the 1st-century church. Blomberg sees Paul's words here as no different in kind than the harsh words the prophets of the Old Testament have for the Jews.\n\nThe Codex Sinaiticus contains two extra books in the New Testament – the Shepherd of Hermas and the Epistle of Barnabas. The latter emphasizes the claim that it was the Jews, not the Romans, who killed Jesus, and is full of antisemitism. The Epistle of Barnabas was not accepted as part of the canon; Professor Bart Ehrman has stated \"the suffering of Jews in the subsequent centuries would, if possible, have been even worse had the Epistle of Barnabas remained\".\n\nA number of early and influential Church works — such as the dialogues of Justin Martyr, the homilies of John Chrysostom, and the testimonies of church father Cyprian — are strongly anti-Jewish.\n\nDuring a discussion on the celebration of Easter during the First Council of Nicaea in 325 CE, Roman emperor Constantine said, ...it appeared an unworthy thing that in the celebration of this most holy feast we should follow the practice of the Jews, who have impiously defiled their hands with enormous sin, and are, therefore, deservedly afflicted with blindness of soul. (...) Let us then have nothing in common with the detestable Jewish crowd; for we have received from our Saviour a different way.\n\nPrejudice against Jews in the Roman Empire was formalized in 438, when the \"Code of Theodosius II\" established Christianity as the only legal religion in the Roman Empire. The Justinian Code a century later stripped Jews of many of their rights, and Church councils throughout the 6th and 7th century, including the Council of Orleans, further enforced anti-Jewish provisions. These restrictions began as early as 305, when, in Elvira, (now Granada), a Spanish town in Andalucia, the first known laws of any church council against Jews appeared. Christian women were forbidden to marry Jews unless the Jew first converted to Catholicism. Jews were forbidden to extend hospitality to Catholics. Jews could not keep Catholic Christian concubines and were forbidden to bless the fields of Catholics. In 589, in Catholic Iberia, the Third Council of Toledo ordered that children born of marriage between Jews and Catholic be baptized by force. By the Twelfth Council of Toledo (681) a policy of forced conversion of all Jews was initiated (Liber Judicum, II.2 as given in Roth). Thousands fled, and thousands of others converted to Roman Catholicism.\n\nAntisemitism was widespread in Europe during the Middle Ages. In those times, a main cause of prejudice against Jews in Europe was the religious one. Although not part of Roman Catholic dogma, many Christians, including members of the clergy, held the Jewish people collectively responsible for the death of Jesus, a practice originated by Melito of Sardis.\n\nAmong socio-economic factors were restrictions by the authorities. Local rulers and church officials closed the doors for many professions to the Jews, pushing them into occupations considered socially inferior such as accounting, rent-collecting and moneylending, which was tolerated then as a \"necessary evil\". During the Black Death, Jews were accused as being the cause, and were often killed. There were expulsions of Jews from England, France, Germany, Portugal and Spain during the Middle Ages as a result of antisemitism.\nGerman for \"Jews' sow\", \"Judensau\" was the derogatory and dehumanizing imagery of Jews that appeared around the 13th century. Its popularity lasted for over 600 years and was revived by the Nazis. The Jews, typically portrayed in obscene contact with unclean animals such as pigs or owls or representing a devil, appeared on cathedral or church ceilings, pillars, utensils, etchings, etc. Often, the images combined several antisemitic motifs and included derisive prose or poetry.\n\"Dozens of Judensaus... intersect with the portrayal of the Jew as a Christ killer. Various illustrations of the murder of Simon of Trent blended images of Judensau, the devil, the murder of little Simon himself, and the Crucifixion. In the 17th-century engraving from Frankfurt... a well-dressed, very contemporary-looking Jew has mounted the sow backward and holds her tail, while a second Jew sucks at her milk and a third eats her feces. The horned devil, himself wearing a Jewish badge, looks on and the butchered Simon, splayed as if on a cross, appears on a panel above.\"\n\nIn Shakespeare's \"\"Merchant of Venice\",\" considered to be one of the greatest romantic comedies of all time, the villain Shylock was a Jewish moneylender. By the end of the play he is mocked on the streets after his daughter elopes with a Christian. Shylock, then, compulsorily converts to Christianity as a part of a deal gone wrong. This has raised profound implications regarding Shakespeare and antisemitism.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the story of Jephonias, the Jew who tried to overturn Mary's funeral bier, changed from his converting to Christianity into his simply having his hands cut off by an angel.\nOn many occasions, Jews were subjected to blood libels, false accusations of drinking the blood of Christian children in mockery of the Christian Eucharist.\nJews were subject to a wide range of legal restrictions throughout the Middle Ages, some of which lasted until the end of the 19th century. Jews were excluded from many trades, the occupations varying with place and time, and determined by the influence of various non-Jewish competing interests. Often Jews were barred from all occupations but money-lending and peddling, with even these at times forbidden.\n\nThroughout the 19th century and into the 20th, the Roman Catholic Church still incorporated strong antisemitic elements, despite increasing attempts to separate anti-Judaism, the opposition to the Jewish religion on religious grounds, and racial antisemitism. Pope Pius VII (1800–1823) had the walls of the Jewish Ghetto in Rome rebuilt after the Jews were released by Napoleon, and Jews were restricted to the Ghetto through the end of the Papal States in 1870.\n\nAdditionally, official organizations such as the Jesuits banned candidates \"who are descended from the Jewish race unless it is clear that their father, grandfather, and great-grandfather have belonged to the Catholic Church\" until 1946. Brown University historian David Kertzer, working from the Vatican archive, has further argued in his book \"The Popes Against the Jews\" that in the 19th century and early 20th century the Church adhered to a distinction between \"good antisemitism\" and \"bad antisemitism\".\n\nThe \"bad\" kind promoted hatred of Jews because of their descent. This was considered un-Christian because the Christian message was intended for all of humanity regardless of ethnicity; anyone could become a Christian. The \"good\" kind criticized alleged Jewish conspiracies to control newspapers, banks, and other institutions, to care only about accumulation of wealth, etc. Many Catholic bishops wrote articles criticizing Jews on such grounds, and, when accused of promoting hatred of Jews, would remind people that they condemned the \"bad\" kind of antisemitism. Kertzer's work is not, therefore, without critics; scholar of Jewish-Christian relations Rabbi David G. Dalin, for example, criticized Kertzer in the \"Weekly Standard\" for using evidence selectively.\n\nThe Nazis used Martin Luther's book, \"On the Jews and Their Lies\" (1543), to claim a moral righteousness for their ideology. Luther even went so far as to advocate the murder of those Jews who refused to convert to Christianity, writing that \"we are at fault in not slaying them\"\n\nArchbishop Robert Runcie has asserted that: \"Without centuries of Christian antisemitism, Hitler's passionate hatred would never have been so fervently echoed...because for centuries Christians have held Jews collectively responsible for the death of Jesus. On Good Friday Jews, have in times past, cowered behind locked doors with fear of a Christian mob seeking 'revenge' for deicide. Without the poisoning of Christian minds through the centuries, the Holocaust is unthinkable.\" The dissident Catholic priest Hans Küng has written that \"Nazi anti-Judaism was the work of godless, anti-Christian criminals. But it would not have been possible without the almost two thousand years' pre-history of 'Christian' anti-Judaism...\"\n\nThe document Dabru Emet was issued by many American Jewish scholars in 2000 as a statement about Jewish-Christian relations. This document states,\n\"Nazism was not a Christian phenomenon. Without the long history of Christian anti-Judaism and Christian violence against Jews, Nazi ideology could not have taken hold nor could it have been carried out. Too many Christians participated in, or were sympathetic to, Nazi atrocities against Jews. Other Christians did not protest sufficiently against these atrocities. But Nazism itself was not an inevitable outcome of Christianity.\"\n\nAccording to American historian Lucy Dawidowicz, antisemitism has a long history within Christianity. The line of \"antisemitic descent\" from Luther, the author of On the Jews and Their Lies, to Hitler is \"easy to draw.\" In her \"The War Against the Jews, 1933-1945\", she contends that Luther and Hitler were obsessed by the \"demonologized universe\" inhabited by Jews. Dawidowicz writes that the similarities between Luther's anti-Jewish writings and modern antisemitism are no coincidence, because they derived from a common history of \"Judenhass\", which can be traced to Haman's advice to Ahasuerus. Although modern German antisemitism also has its roots in German nationalism and the liberal revolution of 1848, Christian antisemitism she writes is a foundation that was laid by the Roman Catholic Church and \"upon which Luther built.\" Dawidowicz' allegations and positions are criticized and not accepted by most historians however. For example, in \"Studying the Jew\" Alan Steinweis notes that, \"Old-fashioned antisemitism, Hitler argued, was insufficient, and would lead only to pogroms, which contribute little to a permanent solution. This is why, Hitler maintained, it was important to promote 'an antisemitism of reason,' one that acknowledged the racial basis of Jewry.\" Interviews with Nazis by other historians show that the Nazis thought that their views were rooted in biology, not historical prejudices. For example, \"S. became a missionary for this biomedical vision... As for anti-Semitic attitudes and actions, he insisted that 'the racial question... [and] resentment of the Jewish race... had nothing to do with medieval anti-Semitism...' That is, it was all a matter of scientific biology and of community.\"\n\nThe Second Vatican Council, the \"Nostra aetate\" document, and the efforts of Pope John Paul II helped reconcile Jews and Catholicism in recent decades, however. According to Catholic Holocaust scholar Michael Phayer, the Church as a whole recognized its failings during the council, when it corrected the traditional beliefs of the Jews having committed deicide and affirmed that they remained God's chosen people.\n\nIn 1994, the Church Council of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the largest Lutheran denomination in the United States and a member of the Lutheran World Federation publicly rejected Luther's antisemitic writings.\n\nThough never a part of Christian dogma, many Christians, including members of the clergy, held the Jewish people under an antisemitic canard to be collectively responsible for deicide, the killing of Jesus, whom they believed was the son of God. According to this interpretation, the Jews present at Jesus' death as well as the Jewish people collectively and for all time had committed the sin of deicide, or God-killing. The accusation has been the most powerful warrant for antisemitism by Christians.\n\nPassion plays are dramatic stagings representing the trial and death of Jesus and they have historically been used in remembrance of Jesus' death during Lent. These plays historically blamed the Jews for the death of Jesus in a polemical fashion, depicting a crowd of Jewish people condemning Jesus to death by crucifixion and a Jewish leader assuming eternal collective guilt for the crowd for the murder of Jesus, which, \"The Boston Globe\" explains, \"for centuries prompted vicious attacks — or pogroms — on Europe's Jewish communities\".\n\nWith the origin of Islam in the 7th century AD and its rapid spread through the Arabian peninsula and beyond, Jews (and many other peoples) became subject to the will of Muslim rulers. The quality of the rule varied considerably in different periods, as did the attitudes of the rulers, government officials, clergy and general population to various subject peoples from time to time, which was reflected in their treatment of these subjects.\n\nVarious definitions of antisemitism in the context of Islam are given. The extent of antisemitism among Muslims varies depending on the chosen definition:\n\nAccording to Jane Gerber, \"the Muslim is continually influenced by the theological threads of anti-Semitism embedded in the earliest chapters of Islamic history.\" In the light of the Jewish defeat at the hands of Muhammad, Muslims traditionally viewed Jews with contempt and as objects of ridicule. Jews were seen as hostile, cunning, and vindictive, but nevertheless weak and ineffectual. Cowardice was the quality most frequently attributed to Jews. Another stereotype associated with the Jews was their alleged propensity to trickery and deceit. While most anti-Jewish polemicists saw those qualities as inherently Jewish, Ibn Khaldun attributed them to the mistreatment of Jews at the hands of the dominant nations. For that reason, says Ibn Khaldun, Jews \"are renowned, in every age and climate, for their wickedness and their slyness\".\n\nMuhammad's attitude towards Jews was basically neutral at the beginning. During his lifetime, Jews lived on the Arabian Peninsula, especially in and around Medina. They refused to accept Muhammad's teachings. Eventually he fought them, defeated them, and most of them were killed. The traditional biographies of Muhammad describe the expulsion of the Banu Qaynuqa in the post Badrperiod, after a marketplace quarrel broke out between the Muslims and the Jews in Medina and Muhammad's negotiations with the tribe failed.\n\nFollowing his defeat in the Battle of Uhud, Muhammad said he received a divine revelation that the Jewish tribe of the Banu Nadir wanted to assassinate him. Muhammad besieged the Banu Nadir and expelled them from Medina. Muhammad also attacked the Jews of the Khaybar oasis near Medina and defeated them, after they had betrayed the Muslims in a time of war, and he only allowed them to stay in the oasis on the condition that they deliver one-half of their annual produce to Muslims.\n\nAnti-Jewish sentiments usually flared up during times of Muslim political or military weakness or when Muslims felt that some Jews had overstepped the boundaries of humiliation prescribed to them by Islamic law. In Spain, ibn Hazm and Abu Ishaq focused their anti-Jewish writings on the latter allegation. This was also the chief motivating factor behind the massacres of Jews in Granada in 1066, when nearly 3,000 Jews were killed, and in Fez in 1033, when 6,000 Jews were killed. There were further massacres in Fez in 1276 and 1465.\n\nIslamic law does not differentiate between Jews and Christians in their status as \"dhimmis\". According to Bernard Lewis, the normal practice of Muslim governments until modern times was consistent with this aspect of sharia law. This view is countered by Jane Gerber, who maintains that of all dhimmis, Jews had the lowest status. Gerber maintains that this situation was especially pronounced in the latter centuries in the Ottoman Empire, where Christian communities enjoyed protection from the European countries, which was unavailable to the Jews. For example, in 18th-century Damascus, a Muslim noble held a festival, inviting to it all social classes in descending order, according to their social status: the Jews outranked only the peasants and the prostitutes.\n\nLeon Poliakov, Walter Laqueur, and Jane Gerber, suggest that later passages in the Qur'an contain very sharp attacks on Jews for their refusal to recognize Muhammad as a prophet of God. There are also Qur'anic verses, particularly from the earliest Qur'anic surahs, showing respect for the Jews (e.g. see , ) and preaching tolerance (e.g. see ). This positive view tended to disappear in the later Surahs. Taking it all together, the Qur'an differentiates between \"good and bad\" Jews, Poliakov states. Laqueur argues that the conflicting statements about Jews in the Muslim holy text have defined Arab and Muslim attitudes towards Jews to this day, especially during periods of rising Islamic fundamentalism.\n\nBernard Lewis holds that Muslims were not antisemitic in the way Christians were for the most part because:\n\nTraditionally Jews living in Muslim lands, known (along with Christians) as dhimmis, were allowed to practice their religion and to administer their internal affairs but subject to certain conditions. They had to pay the jizya(a per capita tax imposed on free adult non-Muslim males) to Muslims. Dhimmis had an inferior status under Islamic rule. They had several social and legal disabilities such as prohibitions against bearing arms or giving testimony in courts in cases involving Muslims. The most degrading one was the requirement of distinctive clothing, not found in the Qur'an or hadith but invented in early medieval Baghdad; its enforcement was highly erratic. Jews rarely faced martyrdom or exile, or forced compulsion to change their religion, and they were mostly free in their choice of residence and profession.\n\nThe notable examples of massacre of Jews include the 1066 Granada massacre, when a Muslim mob stormed the royal palace in Granada, crucified Jewish vizier Joseph ibn Naghrela and massacred most of the Jewish population of the city. \"More than 1,500 Jewish families, numbering 4,000 persons, fell in one day.\" This was the first persecution of Jews on the Peninsula under Islamic rule. There was also the killing or forcibly conversion of them by the rulers of the Almohad dynasty in Al-Andalus in the 12th century. Notable examples of the cases where the choice of residence was taken away from them includes confining Jews to walled quarters (mellahs) in Morocco beginning from the 15th century and especially since the early 19th century. Most conversions were voluntary and happened for various reasons. However, there were some forced conversions in the 12th century under the Almohaddynasty of North Africa and al-Andalus as well as in Persia.\n\nThe portrayal of the Jews in the early Islamic texts played a key role in shaping the attitudes towards them in the Muslim societies. According to Jane Gerber, \"the Muslim is continually influenced by the theological threads of anti-Semitism embedded in the earliest chapters of Islamic history.\" In the light of the Jewish defeat at the hands of Muhammad, Muslims traditionally viewed Jews with contempt and as objects of ridicule. Jews were seen as hostile, cunning, and vindictive, but nevertheless weak and ineffectual. Cowardice was the quality most frequently attributed to Jews. Another stereotype associated with the Jews was their alleged propensity to trickery and deceit. While most anti-Jewish polemicists saw those qualities as inherently Jewish, Ibn Khaldun attributed them to the mistreatment of Jews at the hands of the dominant nations. For that reason, says ibn Khaldun, Jews \"are renowned, in every age and climate, for their wickedness and their slyness\".\n\nSome Muslim writers have inserted racial overtones in their anti-Jewish polemics. Al-Jahiz speaks of the deterioration of the Jewish stock due to excessive inbreeding. Ibn Hazm also implies racial qualities in his attacks on the Jews. However, these were exceptions, and the racial theme left little or no trace in the medieval Muslim anti-Jewish writings.\n\nAnti-Jewish sentiments usually flared up at times of the Muslim political or military weakness or when Muslims felt that some Jews had overstepped the boundary of humiliation prescribed to them by the Islamic law. In Moorish Iberia, ibn Hazm and Abu Ishaq focused their anti-Jewish writings on the latter allegation. This was also the chief motivation behind the 1066 Granada massacre, when \"[m]ore than 1,500 Jewish families, numbering 4,000 persons, fell in one day\", and in Fez in 1033, when 6,000 Jews were killed. There were further massacres in Fez in 1276 and 1465.\n\nIslamic law does not differentiate between Jews and Christians in their status as dhimmis. According to Bernard Lewis, the normal practice of Muslim governments until modern times was consistent with this aspect of sharia law. This view is countered by Jane Gerber, who maintains that of all dhimmis, Jews had the lowest status. Gerber maintains that this situation was especially pronounced in the latter centuries, when Christian communities enjoyed protection, unavailable to the Jews, under the provisions of Capitulations of the Ottoman Empire. For example, in 18th century Damascus, a Muslim noble held a festival, inviting to it all social classes in descending order, according to their social status: the Jews outranked only the peasants and prostitutes. In 1865, when the equality of all subjects of the Ottoman Empire was proclaimed, Ahmed Cevdet Pasha, a high-ranking official observed: \"whereas in former times, in the Ottoman State, the communities were ranked, with the Muslims first, then the Greeks, then the Armenians, then the Jews, now all of them were put on the same level. Some Greeks objected to this, saying: 'The government has put us together with the Jews. We were content with the supremacy of Islam.'\"\n\nSome scholars have questioned the correctness of the term \"antisemitism\" to Muslim culture in pre-modern times. Robert Chazan and Alan Davies argue that the most obvious difference between pre-modern Islam and pre-modern Christendom was the \"rich melange of racial, ethic, and religious communities\" in Islamic countries, within which \"the Jews were by no means obvious as lone dissenters, as they had been earlier in the world of polytheism or subsequently in most of medieval Christendom.\" According to Chazan and Davies, this lack of uniqueness ameliorated the circumstances of Jews in the medieval world of Islam. According to Norman Stillman, antisemitism, understood as hatred of Jews as Jews, \"did exist in the medieval Arab world even in the period of greatest tolerance\". Also see Bostom, Bat Ye'or, and the CSPI issued text, supporting Stillman and cited in the bibliography.\n\nHistorian Martin Gilbert writes that in the 19th century the position of Jews worsened in Muslim countries.\n\nThere was a massacre of Jews in Baghdad in 1828 and in 1839, in the eastern Persian city of Meshed, a mob burst into the Jewish Quarter, burned the synagogue, and destroyed the Torah scrolls. It was only by forcible conversion that a massacre was averted. There was another massacre in Barfurush in 1867.\n\nIn 1840, the Jews of Damascus were falsely accused of having murdered a Christian monk and his Muslim servant and of having used their blood to bake Passover bread or Matza. A Jewish barber was tortured until he \"confessed\"; two other Jews who were arrested died under torture, while a third converted to Islam to save his life. Throughout the 1860s, the Jews of Libya were subjected to what Gilbert calls punitive taxation. In 1864, around 500 Jews were killed in Marrakech and Fez in Morocco. In 1869, 18 Jews were killed in Tunis, and an Arab mob looted Jewish homes and stores, and burned synagogues, on Jerba Island. In 1875, 20 Jews were killed by a mob in Demnat, Morocco; elsewhere in Morocco, Jews were attacked and killed in the streets in broad daylight. In 1891, the leading Muslims in Jerusalem asked the Ottoman authorities in Constantinople to prohibit the entry of Jews arriving from Russia. In 1897, synagogues were ransacked and Jews were murdered in Tripolitania.\n\nBenny Morris writes that one symbol of Jewish degradation was the phenomenon of stone-throwing at Jews by Muslim children. Morris quotes a 19th-century traveler: \"I have seen a little fellow of six years old, with a troop of fat toddlers of only three and four, teaching [them] to throw stones at a Jew, and one little urchin would, with the greatest coolness, waddle up to the man and literally spit upon his Jewish gaberdine. To all this the Jew is obliged to submit; it would be more than his life was worth to offer to strike a Mahommedan.\"\n\nAccording to Mark Cohen in \"The Oxford Handbook of Jewish Studies\", most scholars conclude that Arab antisemitism in the modern world arose in the 19th century, against the backdrop of conflicting Jewish and Arab nationalism, and was imported into the Arab world primarily by nationalistically minded Christian Arabs (and only subsequently was it \"Islamized\").\n\nThe massacres of Jews in Muslim countries continued into the 20th century. Martin Gilbert writes that 40 Jews were murdered in Taza, Morocco in 1903. In 1905, old laws were revived in Yemen forbidding Jews from raising their voices in front of Muslims, building their houses higher than Muslims, or engaging in any traditional Muslim trade or occupation. The Jewish quarter in Fez was almost destroyed by a Muslim mob in 1912.\n\nAntagonism and violence increased still further as resentment against Zionist efforts in the British Mandate of Palestine spread. The Grand Mufti of Jerusalem, Mohammad Amin al-Husayni played a key role in violent opposition to Zionism and closely allied himself with the Nazi regime. From 1941 al-Husayni was based in Germany from where he urged attacks on Jews. There were Nazi-inspired pogroms in Algeria in the 1930s, and massive attacks on the Jews in Iraq and Libya in the 1940s (see Farhud). Pro-Nazi Muslims slaughtered dozens of Jews in Baghdad in 1941.\n\nAnti-Zionist propaganda in the Middle East frequently adopts the terminology and symbols of the Holocaust to demonize Israel and its leaders. At the same time, Holocaust denial and Holocaust minimization efforts have found increasingly overt acceptance as sanctioned historical discourse in a number of Middle Eastern countries. Arabic- and Turkish-editions of Hitler's\"Mein Kampf\" and \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" have found an audience in the region with limited critical response by local intellectuals and media. See International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust.\n\nAccording to Robert Satloff, Muslims and Arabs were involved both as rescuers and as perpetrators of the Holocaust during pro-Nazi rule of Vichy in French North Africa, and during Italian and German Nazi occupation of Tunisia and Libya.\n\nAccording to a Pew Global Attitudes Project report released on August 14, 2005, Anti-Jewish sentiment was endemic. Of six Muslim majority countries surveyed, all have high percentages of their populations with unfavorable views of Jews. Turkey reported that 60% had unfavorable views of Jews, Pakistan reported 74%, Indonesia reported 76%, and Morocco reported 88%. 100% of Lebanese Muslims viewed Jews unfavorably, as did 99% of the Jordanian people.\n\nGeorge Gruen attributes the increased animosity towards Jews in the Arab world to several factors, including the breakdown of the Ottoman Empire and traditional Islamic society; domination by Western colonial powers under which Jews gained a larger role in the commercial, professional, and administrative life of the region; the rise of Arab nationalism, whose proponents sought the wealth and positions of local Jews through government channels; resentment against Jewish nationalism and the Zionist movement; and the readiness of unpopular regimes to scapegoat local Jews for political purposes.\n\nBlood libels are false accusations that Jews use human blood in religious rituals.\nHistorically these are accusations that the blood of Christian children is especially coveted. In many cases, blood libels served as the basis for a blood libel cult, in which the alleged victim of human sacrifice was elevated to the status of a martyr and, in some cases, canonized.\n\nAlthough the first known instance of a blood libel is found in the writings of Apion, who claimed that the Jews sacrificed Greek victims in the Temple, no further incidents are recorded until the 12th century, when blood libels began to proliferate. These libels have persisted from then through the 21st century.\n\nIn the modern era, blood libel continues to be a major aspect of antisemitism. It has extended its reach to accuse Jews of many different forms of harm that can be carried out against other people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25536", "title": "Republic", "text": "Republic\n\nA republic () is a form of government in which the country is considered a \"public matter\", not the private concern or property of the rulers. The primary positions of power within a republic are not inherited. It is a form of government under which the head of state is not a monarch.\n\nIn American English, the definition of a republic refers specifically to a form of government in which elected individuals represent the citizen body and exercise power according to the rule of law under a constitution, including separation of powers with an elected head of state, referred to as a constitutional republic or representative democracy.\n\n, 159 of the world's 206 sovereign states use the word \"republic\" as part of their official names – not all of these are republics in the sense of having elected governments, nor is the word \"republic\" used in the names of all nations with elected governments. While heads of state often tend to claim that they rule only by the \"consent of the governed\", elections in some countries have been found to be held more for the purpose of \"show\" than for the actual purpose of in reality providing citizens with any genuine ability to choose their own leaders.\n\nThe word \"republic\" comes from the Latin term \"res publica\", which literally means \"public thing,\" \"public matter,\" or \"public affair\" and was used to refer to the state as a whole. The term developed its modern meaning in reference to the constitution of the ancient Roman Republic, lasting from the overthrow of the kings in 509 B.C. to the establishment of the Empire in 27 B.C. This constitution was characterized by a Senate comprised of wealthy aristocrats and wielding significant influence; several popular assemblies of all free citizens, possessing the power to elect magistrates and pass laws; and a series of magistracies with varying types of civil and political authority. With power spread so widely, the Roman constitution epitomized the republican ideals of both mixed government and broad public participation in politics. These ideals would prove influential in the modern revival of republican political thought during the Italian Renaissance.\n\nMost often a republic is a single sovereign state, but there are also sub-sovereign state entities that are referred to as republics, or that have governments that are described as \"republican\" in nature. For instance, Article IV of the United States Constitution \"guarantee[s] to every State in this Union a Republican form of Government\". In contrast, the former Soviet Union, which described itself as being a group of \"Republics\" and also as a \"federal multinational state composed of 15 republics\", was widely viewed as being an authoritarian form of government and not as a republican form of government. It was seen as authoritarian, as its electoral system was structured so as to automatically guarantee the election of government-sponsored candidates.\n\nThe term originates as the Latin translation of Greek word \"politeia\". Cicero, among other Latin writers, translated \"politeia\" as \"res publica\" and it was in turn translated by Renaissance scholars as \"republic\" (or similar terms in various western European languages).\n\nThe term \"politeia\" can be translated as form of government, polity, or regime and is therefore not always a word for a specific type of regime as the modern word republic is. One of Plato's major works on political science was titled \"Politeia\" and in English it is thus known as \"The Republic\". However, apart from the title, in modern translations of \"The Republic\", alternative translations of \"politeia\" are also used.\n\nHowever, in Book III of his \"Politics\" (1279) Aristotle was apparently the first classical writer to state that the term \"politeia\" can be used to refer more specifically to one type of \"politeia\": \"When the citizens at large govern for the public good, it is called by the name common to all governments (\"to koinon onoma pasōn tōn politeiōn\"), government (\"politeia\")\". Also amongst classical Latin, the term \"republic\" can be used in a general way to refer to any regime, or in a specific way to refer to governments which work for the public good.\n\nIn medieval Northern Italy, a number of city states had commune or signoria based governments. In the late Middle Ages, writers such as Giovanni Villani began writing about the nature of these states and the differences from other types of regime. They used terms such as \"libertas populi\", a free people, to describe the states. The terminology changed in the 15th century as the renewed interest in the writings of Ancient Rome caused writers to prefer using classical terminology. To describe non-monarchical states writers, most importantly Leonardo Bruni, adopted the Latin phrase \"res publica\".\n\nWhile Bruni and Machiavelli used the term to describe the states of Northern Italy, which were not monarchies, the term \"res publica\" has a set of interrelated meanings in the original Latin. The term can quite literally be translated as \"public matter\". It was most often used by Roman writers to refer to the state and government, even during the period of the Roman Empire.\n\nIn subsequent centuries, the English word \"commonwealth\" came to be used as a translation of \"res publica\", and its use in English was comparable to how the Romans used the term \"res publica\". Notably, during The Protectorate of Oliver Cromwell the word commonwealth was the most common term to call the new monarchless state, but the word republic was also in common use. Likewise, in Polish the term was translated as \"rzeczpospolita\", although the translation is now only used with respect to Poland.\n\nPresently, the term \"republic\" commonly means a system of government which derives its power from the people rather than from another basis, such as heredity or divine right.\n\nWhile the philosophical terminology developed in classical Greece and Rome, as already noted by Aristotle there was already a long history of city states with a wide variety of constitutions, not only in Greece but also in the Middle East. After the classical period, during the Middle Ages, many free cities developed again, such as Venice.\n\nThe modern type of \"republic\" itself is different from any type of state found in the classical world. Nevertheless, there are a number of states of the classical era that are today still called republics. This includes ancient Athens and the Roman Republic. While the structure and governance of these states was very different from that of any modern republic, there is debate about the extent to which classical, medieval, and modern republics form a historical continuum. J. G. A. Pocock has argued that a distinct republican tradition stretches from the classical world to the present. Other scholars disagree. Paul Rahe, for instance, argues that the classical republics had a form of government with few links to those in any modern country.\n\nThe political philosophy of the classical republics has in any case had an influence on republican thought throughout the subsequent centuries. Philosophers and politicians advocating republics, such as Machiavelli, Montesquieu, Adams, and Madison, relied heavily on classical Greek and Roman sources which described various types of regimes.\n\nAristotle's \"Politics\" discusses various forms of government. One form Aristotle named \"politeia\", which consisted of a mixture of the other forms. He argued that this was one of the ideal forms of government. Polybius expanded on many of these ideas, again focusing on the idea of mixed government. The most important Roman work in this tradition is Cicero's \"De re publica\".\n\nOver time, the classical republics were either conquered by empires or became ones themselves. Most of the Greek republics were annexed to the Macedonian Empire of Alexander. The Roman Republic expanded dramatically conquering the other states of the Mediterranean that could be considered republics, such as Carthage. The Roman Republic itself then became the Roman Empire.\n\nThe term \"republic\" is not commonly used to refer to pre-classical city states, especially if outside Europe and the area which was under Graeco-Roman influence. However some early states outside Europe had governments that are sometimes today considered similar to republics.\n\nIn the ancient Near East, a number of cities of the Eastern Mediterranean achieved collective rule. Arwad has been cited as one of the earliest known examples of a republic, in which the people, rather than a monarch, are described as sovereign. The Israelite confederation of the era before the United Monarchy has also been considered a type of republic. In Africa the Axum Empire was organized as a confederation ruled similarly to a royal republic. Similarly the Igbo nation of what is now Nigeria.\n\nThe ancient Indian subcontinent had a number of early republics among Mahajanapadas. Early republican institutions comes from the independent \"republics\" of India, \"sanghas\" and \"ganas\", which existed as early as the 6th century B.C. and persisted in some areas until the 4th century. The evidence for this is scattered, however, and no pure historical source exists for that period. In addition, Diodorus—a Greek historian who wrote two centuries after the time of Alexander the Great's invasion of India—mentions, without offering any detail, that independent and democratic states existed in India. Modern scholars note the word \"democracy\" at the time of the 3rd century B.C. and later suffered from degradation and could mean any autonomous state, no matter how oligarchic in nature.\nKey characteristics of the \"gana\" seem to include a monarch, usually known by the name raja, and a deliberative assembly. The assembly met regularly. It discussed all major state decisions. At least in some states, attendance was open to all free men. This body also had full financial, administrative, and judicial authority. Other officers, who rarely receive any mention, obeyed the decisions of the assembly. Elected by the \"gana\", the monarch apparently always belonged to a family of the noble class of \"Kshatriya Varna\". The monarch coordinated his activities with the assembly; in some states, he did so with a council of other nobles. The Licchavis had a primary governing body of 7,077 rajas, the heads of the most important families. On the other hand, the Shakyas, Koliyas, Mallas, and Licchavis, during the period around Gautama Buddha, had the assembly open to all men, rich and poor. Early \"republics\" or Gaṇa sangha, such as Mallas, centered in the city of Kusinagara, and the Vajji (or Vriji) confederation, centered in the city of Vaishali, existed as early as the 6th century BCE and persisted in some areas until the 4th century CE. The most famous clan amongst the ruling confederate clans of the Vajji Mahajanapada were the Licchavis. The Magadha kingdom included republican communities such as the community of Rajakumara. Villages had their own assemblies under their local chiefs called Gramakas. Their administrations were divided into executive, judicial, and military functions. \n\nScholars differ over how best to describe these governments, and the vague, sporadic quality of the evidence allows for wide disagreements. Some emphasize the central role of the assemblies and thus tout them as democracies; other scholars focus on the upper-class domination of the leadership and possible control of the assembly and see an oligarchy or an aristocracy. Despite the assembly's obvious power, it has not yet been established whether the composition and participation were truly popular. The first main obstacle is the lack of evidence describing the popular power of the assembly. This is reflected in the \"Arthashastra\", an ancient handbook for monarchs on how to rule efficiently. It contains a chapter on how to deal with the \"sangas\", which includes injunctions on manipulating the noble leaders, yet it does not mention how to influence the mass of the citizens—a surprising omission if democratic bodies, not the aristocratic families, actively controlled the republican governments. Another issue is the persistence of the four-tiered Varna class system. The duties and privileges on the members of each particular caste—rigid enough to prohibit someone sharing a meal with those of another order—might have affected the roles members were expected to play in the state, regardless of the formality of the institutions. A central tenet of democracy is the notion of shared decision-making power. The absence of any concrete notion of citizen equality across these caste system boundaries leads many scholars to claim that the true nature of \"ganas\" and \"sanghas\" is not comparable to truly democratic institutions.\nThe Icelandic Commonwealth was established in AD 930 by refugees from Norway who had fled the unification of that country under King Harald Fairhair. The Commonwealth consisted of a number of clans run by chieftains, and the Althing was a combination of parliament and supreme court where disputes appealed from lower courts were settled, laws were decided, and decisions of national importance were taken. One such example was the Christianisation of Iceland in 1000, where the Althing decreed, in order to prevent an invasion, that all Icelanders must be baptized, and forbade celebration of pagan rituals. Contrary to most states, the Icelandic Commonwealth had no official leader.\n\nIn the early 13th century, the Age of the Sturlungs, the Commonwealth began to suffer from long conflicts between warring clans. This, combined with pressure from the Norwegian king Haakon IV for the Icelanders to rejoin the Norwegian \"family\", led the Icelandic chieftains to accept Haakon IV as king by the signing of the \"Gamli sáttmáli\" (\"Old Covenant\") in 1262. This effectively brought the Commonwealth to an end. The Althing, however, is still Iceland's parliament, almost 800 years later.\n\nIn Europe new republics appeared in the late Middle Ages when a number of small states embraced republican systems of government. These were generally small, but wealthy, trading states, like the Italian city-states and the Hanseatic League, in which the merchant class had risen to prominence. Knud Haakonssen has noted that, by the Renaissance, Europe was divided with those states controlled by a landed elite being monarchies and those controlled by a commercial elite being republics.\n\nAcross Europe a wealthy merchant class developed in the important trading cities. Despite their wealth they had little power in the feudal system dominated by the rural land owners, and across Europe began to advocate for their own privileges and powers. The more centralized states, such as France and England, granted limited city charters.\n\nIn the more loosely governed Holy Roman Empire, 51 of the largest towns became free imperial cities. While still under the dominion of the Holy Roman Emperor most power was held locally and many adopted republican forms of government. The same rights to imperial immediacy were secured by the major trading cities of Switzerland. The towns and villages of alpine Switzerland had, courtesy of geography, also been largely excluded from central control. Unlike Italy and Germany, much of the rural area was thus not controlled by feudal barons, but by independent farmers who also used communal forms of government. When the Habsburgs tried to reassert control over the region both rural farmers and town merchants joined the rebellion. The Swiss were victorious, and the Swiss Confederacy was proclaimed, and Switzerland has retained a republican form of government to the present.\n\nItaly was the most densely populated area of Europe, and also one with the weakest central government. Many of the towns thus gained considerable independence and adopted commune forms of government. Completely free of feudal control, the Italian city-states expanded, gaining control of the rural hinterland. The two most powerful were the Republic of Venice and its rival the Republic of Genoa. Each were large trading ports, and further expanded by using naval power to control large parts of the Mediterranean. It was in Italy that an ideology advocating for republics first developed. Writers such as Bartholomew of Lucca, Brunetto Latini, Marsilius of Padua, and Leonardo Bruni saw the medieval city-states as heirs to the legacy of Greece and Rome.\n\nTwo Russian cities with powerful merchant class—Novgorod and Pskov—also adopted republican forms of government in 12th and 13th centuries, respectively, which ended when the republics were conquered by Muscovy/Russia at the end 15th – beginning of 16th century.\n\nThe dominant form of government for these early republics was control by a limited council of elite patricians. In those areas that held elections, property qualifications or guild membership limited both who could vote and who could run. In many states no direct elections were held and council members were hereditary or appointed by the existing council. This left the great majority of the population without political power, and riots and revolts by the lower classes were common. The late Middle Ages saw more than 200 such risings in the towns of the Holy Roman Empire. Similar revolts occurred in Italy, notably the Ciompi Revolt in Florence.\n\nFollowing the collapse of the Seljuk Sultanate of Rum and establishment of the Turkish Anatolian Beyliks, the Ahiler merchant fraternities established a state centered on Ankara that is sometimes compared to the Italian mercantile republics.\n\nWhile the classical writers had been the primary ideological source for the republics of Italy, in Northern Europe, the Protestant Reformation would be used as justification for establishing new republics. Most important was Calvinist theology, which developed in the Swiss Confederacy, one of the largest and most powerful of the medieval republics. John Calvin did not call for the abolition of monarchy, but he advanced the doctrine that the faithful had the duty to overthrow irreligious monarchs. Advocacy for republics appeared in the writings of the Huguenots during the French Wars of Religion.\n\nCalvinism played an important role in the republican revolts in England and the Netherlands. Like the city-states of Italy and the Hanseatic League, both were important trading centres, with a large merchant class prospering from the trade with the New World. Large parts of the population of both areas also embraced Calvinism. During the Dutch Revolt (beginning in 1566), the Dutch Republic emerged from rejection of Spanish Habsburg rule. However, the country did not adopt the republican form of government immediately: in the formal declaration of independence (Act of Abjuration, 1581), the throne of king Philip was only declared vacant, and the Dutch magistrates asked the Duke of Anjou, queen Elizabeth of England and prince William of Orange, one after another, to replace Philip. It took until 1588 before the Estates (the \"Staten\", the representative assembly at the time) decided to vest the sovereignty of the country in themselves.\n\nIn 1641 the English Civil War began. Spearheaded by the Puritans and funded by the merchants of London, the revolt was a success, and King Charles I was executed. In England James Harrington, Algernon Sidney, and John Milton became some of the first writers to argue for rejecting monarchy and embracing a republican form of government. The English Commonwealth was short lived, and the monarchy soon restored. The Dutch Republic continued in name until 1795, but by the mid-18th century the stadtholder had become a \"de facto\" monarch. Calvinists were also some of the earliest settlers of the British and Dutch colonies of North America.\n\nAlong with these initial republican revolts, early modern Europe also saw a great increase in monarchical power. The era of absolute monarchy replaced the limited and decentralized monarchies that had existed in most of the Middle Ages. It also saw a reaction against the total control of the monarch as a series of writers created the ideology known as liberalism.\n\nMost of these Enlightenment thinkers were far more interested in ideas of constitutional monarchy than in republics. The Cromwell regime had discredited republicanism, and most thinkers felt that republics ended in either anarchy or tyranny. Thus philosophers like Voltaire opposed absolutism while at the same time being strongly pro-monarchy.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau and Montesquieu praised republics, and looked on the city-states of Greece as a model. However, both also felt that a nation-state like France, with 20 million people, would be impossible to govern as a republic. Rousseau admired the republican experiment in Corsica (1755–1769) and described his ideal political structure of small, self-governing communes. Montesquieu felt that a city-state should ideally be a republic, but maintained that a limited monarchy was better suited to a large nation.\n\nThe American Revolution began as a rejection only of the authority of the British Parliament over the colonies, not of the monarchy. The failure of the British monarch to protect the colonies from what they considered the infringement of their rights to representative government, the monarch's branding of those requesting redress as traitors, and his support for sending combat troops to demonstrate authority resulted in widespread perception of the British monarchy as tyrannical.\n\nWith the United States Declaration of Independence the leaders of the revolt firmly rejected the monarchy and embraced republicanism. The leaders of the revolution were well versed in the writings of the French liberal thinkers, and also in history of the classical republics. John Adams had notably written a book on republics throughout history. In addition, the widely distributed and popularly read-aloud tract \"Common Sense\", by Thomas Paine, succinctly and eloquently laid out the case for republican ideals and independence to the larger public. The Constitution of the United States, ratified in 1789, created a relatively strong federal republic to replace the relatively weak confederation under the first attempt at a national government with the Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union ratified in 1781. The first ten amendments to the Constitution, called the United States Bill of Rights, guaranteed certain natural rights fundamental to republican ideals that justified the Revolution.\n\nThe French Revolution was also not republican at its outset. Only after the Flight to Varennes removed most of the remaining sympathy for the king was a republic declared and Louis XVI sent to the guillotine. The stunning success of France in the French Revolutionary Wars saw republics spread by force of arms across much of Europe as a series of client republics were set up across the continent. The rise of Napoleon saw the end of the French First Republic and her Sister Republics, each replaced by \"popular monarchies\". Throughout the Napoleonic period, the victors extinguished many of the oldest republics on the continent, including the Republic of Venice, the Republic of Genoa, and the Dutch Republic. They were eventually transformed into monarchies or absorbed into neighbouring monarchies.\n\nOutside Europe another group of republics was created as the Napoleonic Wars allowed the states of Latin America to gain their independence. Liberal ideology had only a limited impact on these new republics. The main impetus was the local European descended Creole population in conflict with the Peninsulares—governors sent from overseas. The majority of the population in most of Latin America was of either African or Amerindian descent, and the Creole elite had little interest in giving these groups power and broad-based popular sovereignty. Simón Bolívar, both the main instigator of the revolts and one of its most important theorists, was sympathetic to liberal ideals but felt that Latin America lacked the social cohesion for such a system to function and advocated autocracy as necessary.\n\nIn Mexico this autocracy briefly took the form of a monarchy in the First Mexican Empire. Due to the Peninsular War, the Portuguese court was relocated to Brazil in 1808. Brazil gained independence as a monarchy on September 7, 1822, and the Empire of Brazil lasted until 1889. In the other states various forms of autocratic republic existed until most were liberalized at the end of the 20th century.\nThe French Second Republic was created in 1848, but abolished by Napoleon III who proclaimed himself Emperor in 1852. The French Third Republic was established in 1870, when a civil revolutionary committee refused to accept Napoleon III's surrender during the Franco-Prussian War. Spain briefly became the First Spanish Republic in 1873–74, but the monarchy was soon restored. By the start of the 20th century France, Switzerland and San Marino remained the only republics in Europe. This changed when, after the 1908 Lisbon Regicide, the 5 October 1910 revolution established the Portuguese Republic.\nIn East Asia, China had seen considerable anti-Qing sentiment during the 19th century, and a number of protest movements developed calling for constitutional monarchy. The most important leader of these efforts was Sun Yat-sen, whose Three Principles of the People combined American, European, and Chinese ideas. Under his leadership the Republic of China was proclaimed on January 1, 1912.\n\nRepublicanism expanded significantly in the aftermath of World War I, when several of the largest European empires collapsed: the Russian Empire (1917), German Empire (1918), Austro-Hungarian Empire (1918), and Ottoman Empire (1922) were all replaced by republics. New states gained independence during this turmoil, and many of these, such as Ireland, Poland, Finland and Czechoslovakia, chose republican forms of government. Following Greece's defeat in the Greco-Turkish War (1919–22), the monarchy was briefly replaced by the Second Hellenic Republic (1924–35). In 1931, the proclamation of the Second Spanish Republic (1931–39) resulted in the Spanish Civil War that would be the prelude of World War II.\n\nRepublican ideas were spreading, especially in Asia. The United States began to have considerable influence in East Asia in the later part of the 19th century, with Protestant missionaries playing a central role. The liberal and republican writers of the west also exerted influence. These combined with native Confucian inspired political philosophy that had long argued that the populace had the right to reject unjust government that had lost the Mandate of Heaven.\n\nTwo short-lived republics were proclaimed in East Asia, the Republic of Formosa and the First Philippine Republic.\n\nIn the years following World War II, most of the remaining European colonies gained their independence, and most became republics. The two largest colonial powers were France and the United Kingdom. Republican France encouraged the establishment of republics in its former colonies. The United Kingdom attempted to follow the model it had for its earlier settler colonies of creating independent Commonwealth realms still linked under the same monarchy. While most of the settler colonies and the smaller states of the Caribbean retained this system, it was rejected by the newly independent countries in Africa and Asia, which revised their constitutions and became republics.\n\nBritain followed a different model in the Middle East; it installed local monarchies in several colonies and mandates including Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Yemen and Libya. In subsequent decades revolutions and coups overthrew a number of monarchs and installed republics. Several monarchies remain, and the Middle East is the only part of the world where several large states are ruled by monarchs with almost complete political control.\n\nIn the wake of the First World War, the Russian monarchy fell during the Russian Revolution. The Russian Provisional Government was established in its place on the lines of a liberal republic, but this was overthrown by the Bolsheviks who went on to establish the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. This was the first republic established under Marxist-Leninist ideology. Communism was wholly opposed to monarchy, and became an important element of many republican movements during the 20th century. The Russian Revolution spread into Mongolia, and overthrew its theocratic monarchy in 1924. In the aftermath of the Second World War the communists gradually gained control of Romania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Hungary and Albania, ensuring that the states were reestablished as socialist republics rather than monarchies.\n\nCommunism also intermingled with other ideologies. It was embraced by many national liberation movements during decolonization. In Vietnam, communist republicans pushed aside the Nguyễn Dynasty, and monarchies in neighbouring Laos and Cambodia were overthrown by communist movements in the 1970s. Arab socialism contributed to a series of revolts and coups that saw the monarchies of Egypt, Iraq, Libya, and Yemen ousted. In Africa Marxist-Leninism and African socialism led to the end of monarchy and the proclamation of republics in states such as Burundi and Ethiopia.\n\nIslamic political philosophy has a long history of opposition to absolute monarchy, notably in the work of Al-Farabi. Sharia law took precedence over the will of the ruler, and electing rulers by means of the Shura was an important doctrine. While the early caliphate maintained the principles of an elected ruler, later states became hereditary or military dictatorships though many maintained some pretense of a consultative shura.\n\nNone of these states are typically referred to as republics. The current usage of republic in Muslim countries is borrowed from the western meaning, adopted into the language in the late 19th century. The 20th century saw republicanism become an important idea in much of the Middle East, as monarchies were removed in many states of the region. Iraq became a secular state. Some nations, such as Indonesia and Azerbaijan, began as secular. In Iran, the 1979 revolution overthrew the monarchy and created an Islamic republic based on the ideas of Islamic democracy.\n\nWith no monarch, most modern republics use the title president for the head of state. Originally used to refer to the presiding officer of a committee or governing body in Great Britain the usage was also applied to political leaders, including the leaders of some of the Thirteen Colonies (originally Virginia in 1608); in full, the \"President of the Council\". The first republic to adopt the title was the United States of America. Keeping its usage as the head of a committee the President of the Continental Congress was the leader of the original congress. When the new constitution was written the title of President of the United States was conferred on the head of the new executive branch.\n\nIf the head of state of a republic is also the head of government, this is called a presidential system. There are a number of forms of presidential government. A full-presidential system has a president with substantial authority and a central political role.\n\nIn other states the legislature is dominant and the presidential role is almost purely ceremonial and apolitical, such as in Germany and India. These states are parliamentary republics and operate similarly to constitutional monarchies with parliamentary systems where the power of the monarch is also greatly circumscribed. In parliamentary systems the head of government, most often titled prime minister, exercises the most real political power. Semi-presidential systems have a president as an active head of state, but also have a head of government with important powers.\n\nThe rules for appointing the president and the leader of the government, in some republics permit the appointment of a president and a prime minister who have opposing political convictions: in France, when the members of the ruling cabinet and the president come from opposing political factions, this situation is called cohabitation.\n\nIn some countries, like Switzerland, Bosnia and Herzegovina and San Marino, the head of state is not a single person but a committee (council) of several persons holding that office. The Roman Republic had two consuls, elected for a one-year term by the \"comitia centuriata\", consisting of all adult, freeborn males who could prove citizenship.\n\nIn liberal democracies presidents are elected, either directly by the people or indirectly by a parliament or council. Typically in presidential and semi-presidential systems the president is directly elected by the people, or is indirectly elected as done in the United States. In that country the president is officially elected by an electoral college, chosen by the States, all of which do so by direct election of the electors. The indirect election of the president through the electoral college conforms to the concept of republic as one with a system of indirect election. In the opinion of some, direct election confers legitimacy upon the president and gives the office much of its political power. However, this concept of legitimacy differs from that expressed in the United States Constitution which established the legitimacy of the United States president as resulting from the signing of the Constitution by nine states. The idea that direct election is required for legitimacy also contradicts the spirit of the Great Compromise, whose actual result was manifest in the clause that provides voters in smaller states with more representation in presidential selection than those in large states; for example citizens of Wyoming in 2016 had 3.6 times as much electoral vote representation as citizens of California..\n\nIn states with a parliamentary system the president is usually elected by the parliament. This indirect election subordinates the president to the parliament, and also gives the president limited legitimacy and turns most presidential powers into reserve powers that can only be exercised under rare circumstance. There are exceptions where elected presidents have only ceremonial powers, such as in Ireland.\n\nThe distinction between a republic and a monarchy is not always clear. The constitutional monarchies of the former British Empire and Western Europe today have almost all real political power vested in the elected representatives, with the monarchs only holding either theoretical powers, no powers or rarely used reserve powers. Real legitimacy for political decisions comes from the elected representatives and is derived from the will of the people. While hereditary monarchies remain in place, political power is derived from the people as in a republic. These states are thus sometimes referred to as crowned republics.\n\nTerms such as \"liberal republic\" are also used to describe all of the modern liberal democracies.\n\nThere are also self-proclaimed republics that act similarly to monarchies with absolute power vested in the leader and passed down from father to son. North Korea and Syria are two notable examples where a son has inherited political control. Neither of these states are officially monarchies. There is no constitutional requirement that power be passed down within one family, but it has occurred in practice.\n\nThere are also elective monarchies where ultimate power is vested in a monarch, but the monarch is chosen by some manner of election. A current example of such a state is Malaysia where the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is elected every five years by the Conference of Rulers composed of the nine hereditary rulers of the Malay states and the Vatican City-State, where the pope is selected by cardinal-electors, currently all cardinals under a specific age. While rare today, elective monarchs were common in the past. The Holy Roman Empire is an important example, where each new emperor was chosen by a group of electors. Islamic states also rarely employed primogeniture, instead relying on various forms of election to choose a monarch's successor.\n\nThe Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth had an elective monarchy, with a wide suffrage of some 500,000 nobles. The system, known as the Golden Liberty, had developed as a method for powerful landowners to control the crown. The proponents of this system looked to classical examples, and the writings of the Italian Renaissance, and called their elective monarchy a \"rzeczpospolita\", based on \"res publica.\"\n\nIn general being a republic also implies sovereignty as for the state to be ruled by the people it cannot be controlled by a foreign power. There are important exceptions to this, for example, republics in the Soviet Union were member states which had to meet three criteria to be named republics:\n\n\nIt is sometimes argued that the former Soviet Union was also a supra-national republic, based on the claim that the member states were different nations.\n\nSocialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was a federal entity composed of six republics (Socialist Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, and Slovenia). Each republic had its parliament, government, institute of citizenship, constitution, etc., but certain functions were delegated to the federation (army, monetary matters). Each republic also had a right of self-determination according to the conclusions of the second session of the AVNOJ and according to the federal constitution.\n\nStates of the United States are required, like the federal government, to be republican in form, with final authority resting with the people. This was required because the states were intended to create and enforce most domestic laws, with the exception of areas delegated to the federal government and prohibited to the states. The founding fathers of the country intended most domestic laws to be handled by the states. Requiring the states to be a republic in form was seen as protecting the citizens' rights and preventing a state from becoming a dictatorship or monarchy, and reflected unwillingness on the part of the original 13 states (all independent republics) to unite with other states that were not republics. Additionally, this requirement ensured that only other republics could join the union.\n\nIn the example of the United States, the original 13 British colonies became independent states after the American Revolution, each having a republican form of government. These independent states initially formed a loose confederation called the United States and then later formed the current United States by ratifying the current U.S. Constitution, creating a union of sovereign states with the union or federal government also being a republic. Any state joining the union later was also required to be a republic.\n\nThe term \"republic\" originated from the writers of the Renaissance as a descriptive term for states that were not monarchies. These writers, such as Machiavelli, also wrote important prescriptive works describing how such governments should function. These ideas of how a government and society should be structured is the basis for an ideology known as classical republicanism or civic humanism. This ideology is based on the Roman Republic and the city states of Ancient Greece and focuses on ideals such as civic virtue, rule of law and mixed government.\n\nThis understanding of a republic as a distinct form of government from a liberal democracy is one of the main theses of the Cambridge School of historical analysis. This grew out of the work of J. G. A. Pocock who in 1975 argued that a series of scholars had expressed a consistent set of republican ideals. These writers included Machiavelli, Milton, Montesquieu and the founders of the United States of America.\n\nPocock argued that this was an ideology with a history and principles distinct from liberalism. These ideas were embraced by a number of different writers, including Quentin Skinner, Philip Pettit and Cass Sunstein. These subsequent writers have further explored the history of the idea, and also outlined how a modern republic should function.\n\nA distinct set of definitions for the word republic evolved in the United States. In common parlance, a republic is a state that does not practice direct democracy but rather has a government indirectly controlled by the people. This understanding of the term was originally developed by James Madison, and notably employed in Federalist Paper No. 10. This meaning was widely adopted early in the history of the United States, including in Noah Webster's dictionary of 1828. It was a novel meaning to the term; representative democracy was not an idea mentioned by Machiavelli and did not exist in the classical republics. There is also evidence that contemporaries of Madison considered the meaning of the word to reflect the definition found elsewhere, as is the case with a quotation of Benjamin Franklin taken from the notes of James McHenry where the question is put forth, \"a Republic or a Monarchy?\".\n\nThe term republic does not appear in the Declaration of Independence, but does appear in Article IV of the Constitution which \"guarantee[s] to every State in this Union a Republican form of Government.\" What exactly the writers of the constitution felt this should mean is uncertain. The Supreme Court, in \"Luther v. Borden\" (1849), declared that the definition of \"republic\" was a \"political question\" in which it would not intervene. In two later cases, it did establish a basic definition. In \"United States v. Cruikshank\" (1875), the court ruled that the \"equal rights of citizens\" were inherent to the idea of a republic.\n\nHowever, the term republic is not synonymous with the republican form. The republican form is defined as one in which the powers of sovereignty are vested in the people and are exercised by the people, either directly, or through representatives chosen by the people, to whom those powers are specially delegated.\n\nBeyond these basic definitions the word republic has a number of other connotations. W. Paul Adams observes that republic is most often used in the United States as a synonym for state or government, but with more positive connotations than either of those terms. Republicanism is often referred to as the founding ideology of the United States. Traditionally scholars believed this American republicanism was a derivation of the classical liberal ideologies of John Locke and others developed in Europe.\n\nA political philosophy of republicanism that formed during the Renaissance period and initiated by Machiavelli was thought to have had little impact on the founders of the United States. In the 1960s and 1970s, a revisionist school led by the likes of Bernard Bailyn began to argue that republicanism was just as or even more important than liberalism in the creation of the United States. This issue is still much disputed and scholars like Isaac Kramnick completely reject this view.\n\n\n• Thomas Corwin, Senate Speech Against the Mexican War-Congressional Globe 1847.\n\n"}
{"id": "471457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471457", "title": "Robert Mueller", "text": "Robert Mueller\n\nRobert Swan Mueller III (; born August 7, 1944) is an American attorney who served as the sixth Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from 2001 to 2013. A conservative Republican, he was appointed by President George W. Bush; President Barack Obama gave his original ten-year term a two-year extension, making him the longest-serving FBI Director since J. Edgar Hoover. He is currently head of the Special Counsel investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections and related matters.\n\nA graduate of Princeton University, Mueller served as a Marine Corps officer during the Vietnam War, receiving the Bronze Star Medal with Combat \"V\" for heroism and the Purple Heart Medal. After graduating from the University of Virginia School of Law (1973), he worked at a private firm in San Francisco for three years until his appointment as an Assistant U.S. Attorney (AUSA) in the same city. Before his appointment as FBI Director, Mueller served as a United States Attorney, as United States Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division, and as Acting U.S. Deputy Attorney General.\n\nIn May 2017, Mueller was appointed by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein as special counsel overseeing an ongoing investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 U.S. presidential election and related matters.\n\nMueller was born at Doctors Hospital in the New York City borough of Manhattan, the first child of Alice C. Truesdale (1920–2007) and Robert Swan Mueller Jr. (1916–2007). He has four younger sisters: Susan, Sandra, Joan, and Patricia. His father was an executive with DuPont who had served as a Navy officer in the Atlantic and Mediterranean theaters during World War II.\n\nMueller is of German, English and Scottish descent. His paternal great-grandfather, Gustave A. Mueller, was a prominent doctor in Pittsburgh, whose own father August C. E. Müller had immigrated to the United States in 1855 from the Province of Pomerania in the Kingdom of Prussia (a historical state whose territory included land now part of Germany and western Poland). On his mother's side, he is a great-grandson of the railroad executive William Truesdale.\n\nMueller grew up in Princeton, New Jersey, where he attended Princeton Country Day School, now known as Princeton Day School. After he completed eighth grade, his family moved to Philadelphia while Mueller himself went on to attend St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, where he was captain of the soccer, hockey, and lacrosse teams and won the Gordon Medal as the school's top athlete in 1962. A lacrosse teammate and classmate at St. Paul's School was future Massachusetts Senator and Secretary of State John Kerry.\n\nMueller went on to study at Princeton University, where he continued to play lacrosse, receiving a Bachelor of Arts in politics with a senior thesis on jurisdiction in the South West Africa cases in 1966. Mueller earned a Master of Arts in international relations from New York University in 1967, before pursuing his Juris Doctor degree.\n\nIn 1968, Mueller joined the U.S. Marine Corps. He has cited his teammate David Spencer Hackett's death in the Vietnam War as an influence on his decision to pursue military service. Of his classmate, Mueller has said, \"One of the reasons I went into the Marine Corps was because we lost a very good friend, a Marine in Vietnam, who was a year ahead of me at Princeton. There were a number of us who felt we should follow his example and at least go into the service. And it flows from there.\" Hackett was a Marine Corps first lieutenant in the infantry and was killed in 1967 in Quảng Trị Province by small arms fire.\n\nAfter his military service, Mueller enrolled at the University of Virginia School of Law, where he served on the Virginia Law Review and graduated in 1973.\n\nAfter waiting a year so a knee injury could heal, Mueller was accepted for officer training in the United States Marine Corps in 1968, attending training at Parris Island, Officer Candidate School, Army Ranger School, and Army jump school. Of all these, he said later that he considered Ranger School the most valuable. \"[It] more than anything teaches you about how you react with no sleep and nothing to eat.\"\nIn July 1968, he was sent to South Vietnam, where he served as a rifle platoon leader with Second Platoon, H Company, 2nd Battalion, 4th Marines, 3rd Marine Division. On December 11, 1968, during an engagement in Operation Scotland II, he earned the Bronze Star with \"V\" distinction for combat valor for rescuing a wounded Marine under enemy fire during an ambush in which he saw half of his platoon become casualties. In April 1969, he received an enemy gunshot wound in the thigh, recovered, and returned to lead his platoon until June 1969. For his service in and during the Vietnam War, his military decorations and awards include: the Bronze Star Medal with Combat \"V\", Purple Heart Medal, two Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medals with Combat \"V\", Combat Action Ribbon, National Defense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal with four service stars, Republic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross, Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal, and Parachutist Badge.\n\nAfter recuperating at a field hospital near Da Hong, Mueller became aide-de-camp to 3rd Marine Division's commanding general, then-Major General William K. Jones, where he \"significantly contributed to the rapport\" Jones had with other officers, according to one report. Mueller had originally considered making the Marines his career, but he explained later that he found non-combat life in the Corps to be unexciting.\n\nReflecting on his service in the Vietnam War, Mueller said, \"I consider myself exceptionally lucky to have made it out of Vietnam. There were many—many—who did not. And perhaps because I did survive Vietnam, I have always felt compelled to contribute.\" In 2009, he told a writer that despite his other accomplishments he was still \"most proud the Marines Corps deemed me worthy of leading other Marines.\"\n\nAfter returning from Vietnam, Mueller was briefly stationed at Henderson Hall, before leaving active-duty service in August 1970.\n\nAfter receiving his J.D. degree in 1973 from the University of Virginia School of Law, Mueller worked as a litigator at the firm Pillsbury, Madison and Sutro in San Francisco until 1976. He then served for 12 years in United States Attorney offices. He first worked in the office of the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California in San Francisco, where he rose to be chief of the criminal division, and in 1982, he moved to Boston to work in the office of the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts as Assistant United States Attorney, where he investigated and prosecuted major financial fraud, terrorism and public corruption cases, as well as narcotics conspiracies and international money launderers.\n\nAfter serving as a partner at the Boston law firm of Hill and Barlow, Mueller returned to government service. In 1989, he served in the United States Department of Justice as an assistant to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh and as acting Deputy Attorney General. James Baker, with whom he worked on national security matters, said he had \"...an appreciation for the Constitution and the rule of law.\"\n\nIn 1990 he took charge of the United States Department of Justice Criminal Division, still operating as a United States Assistant Attorney General. During his tenure, he oversaw prosecutions including that of Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega, the Pan Am Flight 103 (Lockerbie bombing) case, and of the Gambino crime family boss John Gotti.\n\nIn 1991, he declared the government had been investigating the Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI) since 1986 in more-than-usual media exposure. Also in 1991, he was elected a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers.\n\nIn 1993, Mueller became a partner at Boston's Hale and Dorr, specializing in white-collar crime litigation. He returned to public service in 1995 as senior litigator in the homicide section of the District of Columbia United States Attorney's Office. In 1998, Mueller was named U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California and held that position until 2001.\n\nMueller was nominated for the position of FBI director by George W. Bush on July 5, 2001. At the time, he and two other candidates, Washington lawyer George J. Terwilliger III and veteran Chicago prosecutor and white-collar crime defense lawyer Dan Webb, were up for the job, but Mueller was always considered the front-runner. Terwilliger and Webb both pulled out from consideration around mid-June, while confirmation hearings for Mueller before the Senate Judiciary Committee were quickly set for July 30, only three days before his prostate cancer surgery.\n\nThe Senate unanimously confirmed Mueller as FBI director on August 2, 2001, voting 98–0 in favor of his appointment. He had previously served as acting deputy attorney general of the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) for several months before officially becoming the FBI director on September 4, 2001, just one week before the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.\nOn February 11, 2003, one month before the U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, Mueller gave testimony to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Mueller informed the American public that \"[s]even countries designated as state sponsors of terrorism—Iran, Iraq, Syria, Sudan, Libya, Cuba, and North Korea—remain active in the United States and continue to support terrorist groups that have targeted Americans. As Director Tenet has pointed out, Secretary Powell presented evidence last week that Baghdad has failed to disarm its weapons of mass destruction, willfully attempting to evade and deceive the international community. Our particular concern is that Saddam Hussein may supply terrorists with biological, chemical or radiological material.\" Highlighting this worry in February 2003, FBI Special Agent Coleen Rowley wrote an open letter to Mueller in which she warned that \"the bureau will [not] be able to stem the flood of terrorism that will likely head our way in the wake of an attack on Iraq\" and encouraged Mueller to \"share [her concerns] with the President and Attorney General.\"\n\nOn March 10, 2004, while United States Attorney General John Ashcroft was at the George Washington University Hospital for gallbladder surgery, James Comey, the then deputy attorney general, received a call from Ashcroft's wife informing him that White House Chief of Staff Andrew Card and White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales were about to visit Ashcroft to convince him to renew a program of warrantless wiretapping under the Terrorist Surveillance Program which the DOJ ruled unconstitutional. Ashcroft refused to sign, as he had previously agreed, but the following day the White House renewed the program anyway. Mueller and Comey then threatened to resign. On March 12, 2004, after private, individual meetings with Mueller and Comey at the White House, the president supported changing the program to satisfy the concerns of Mueller, Ashcroft, and Comey.\nHe was inducted into the Ranger Hall of Fame in 2004.\n\nAs director, Mueller also barred FBI personnel from participating in enhanced interrogations with the CIA. At a dinner, Mueller defended an attorney (Thomas Wilner) who had been attacked for his role in defending Kuwaiti detainees. Mueller stood up, raised his glass, and said, \"I toast Tom Wilner. He's doing what an American should.\" However, the White House pushed back, encouraging more vigorous methods of pursuing and interrogating terror suspects. When Bush confronted Mueller to ask him to round up more terrorists in the U.S., Mueller responded, saying, \"If they [suspects] don't commit a crime, it would be difficult to identify and isolate\" them. Vice President Dick Cheney objected, by saying, \"That's just not good enough. We're hearing this too much from the FBI.\"\n\nIn May 2011, President Barack Obama asked Mueller to continue at the helm of the FBI for two additional years beyond his normal 10-year term, which would have expired on September 4, 2011. The Senate approved this request 100–0 on July 27, 2011. On September 4, 2013, Mueller was replaced by James Comey.\n\nIn June 2013, Mueller defended NSA surveillance programs in testimony before a House Judiciary Committee hearing. He said that surveillance programs could have \"derailed\" the September 11 attacks. Congressman John Conyers disagreed: \"I am not persuaded that that makes it OK to collect every call.\" Mueller also testified that the government's surveillance programs complied \"in full with U.S. law and with basic rights guaranteed under the Constitution.\" He said that \"We are taking all necessary steps to hold Edward Snowden responsible for these disclosures.\"\n\nOn June 19, 2017, in the case of \"Arar v. Ashcroft\", Mueller, along with Ashcroft and former Immigration and Naturalization Services Commissioner James W. Ziglar and others, was shielded from civil liability by the Supreme Court for post-9/11 detention of Muslims under policies then brought into place.\n\nAfter leaving the FBI in 2013, Mueller served a one-year term as consulting professor and the Arthur and Frank Payne distinguished lecturer at Stanford University, where he focused on issues related to cybersecurity.\n\nIn addition to his speaking and teaching roles, Mueller also joined the law firm WilmerHale as a partner in its Washington office in 2014. Among other roles at the firm, he oversaw the independent investigation into the NFL's conduct surrounding the video that appeared to show NFL player Ray Rice assaulting his fiancée. In January 2016, he was appointed as Settlement Master in the U.S. consumer litigation over the Volkswagen emissions scandal; as of May 11, 2017, the scandal has resulted in $11.2 billion in customer settlements.\n\nOn October 19, 2016, Mueller began an external review of \"security, personnel, and management processes and practices\" at government contractor Booz Allen Hamilton after an employee was indicted for massive data theft from the National Security Agency. On April 6, 2017, he was appointed as Special Master for disbursement of $850 million and $125 million for automakers and consumers, respectively, affected by rupture-prone Takata airbags.\n\nMueller received the 2016 Thayer Award for public service from the United States Military Academy. In June 2017, he received the Baker Award for intelligence and national security contributions from the nonprofit Intelligence and National Security Alliance.\n\nOn May 16, 2017, Mueller interviewed with President Trump to again serve as the Director of the FBI but was not hired. The next day, Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein appointed Mueller to serve as special counsel for the United States Department of Justice. In this capacity, Mueller oversees the investigation into \"any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump, and any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation\".\n\nMueller's appointment to oversee the investigation immediately garnered widespread support from both Democrats and Republicans in Congress. Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) said, \"Former Director Mueller is exactly the right kind of individual for this job. I now have significantly greater confidence that the investigation will follow the facts wherever they lead.\" Senator Rob Portman (R-OH) stated, \"former FBI dir. Mueller is well qualified to oversee this probe\". Newt Gingrich, former Republican Speaker of the House of Representatives and prominent conservative political commentator, stated via Twitter that \"Robert Mueller is a superb choice to be special counsel. His reputation is impeccable for honesty and integrity.\" Some, however, were quick to point out an alleged conflict of interest. \"The federal code could not be clearer—Mueller is compromised by his apparent conflict of interest in being close with James Comey,\" Rep. Trent Franks (R-AZ), who first called for Mueller to step down over the summer, said in a statement to Fox News. \"The appearance of a conflict is enough to put Mueller in violation of the code. … All of the revelations in recent weeks make the case stronger.\"\n\nUpon his appointment as Special Counsel, Mueller and two colleagues (former FBI agent Aaron Zebley and former assistant special prosecutor on the Watergate Special Prosecution Force James L. Quarles III) resigned from WilmerHale. On May 23, 2017, the U.S. Department of Justice ethics experts announced they had declared Mueller ethically able to function as special counsel. The spokesperson for the special counsel is Peter Carr, who told NBC News that Mueller has taken an active role in managing the inquiry. In an interview with the Associated Press, Rosenstein said he would recuse himself from supervision of Mueller if he were to become a subject in the investigation due to his role in the dismissal of James Comey.\n\nOn June 14, 2017, the \"Washington Post\" reported that Mueller's office is also investigating President Trump personally for possible obstruction of justice, in reference to the Russian probe. The report was questioned by Trump's legal team attorney Jay Sekulow, who said on June 18 on NBC's \"Meet the Press\", \"The President is not and has not been under investigation for obstruction, period.\" Due to the central role of the Trump family in the campaign, the transition, and the White House, the President's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, is also under scrutiny by Mueller. Also in June, Trump allegedly ordered the firing of Robert Mueller, but backed down when then-White House Counsel Don McGahn threatened to quit.\n\nDuring a discussion about national security at the Aspen security conference, on July 21, 2017, former CIA director John Brennan reaffirmed his support for Mueller and called for members of Congress to resist if Trump fires Mueller. He also said it was \"the obligation of some executive-branch officials to refuse to carry out some of these orders that, again, are inconsistent with what this country is all about.\" After the firing of Peter Strzok, a central investigator for Mueller, for alleged partiality, Senator Mark Warner, the Ranking Member of the United States Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in a speech on December 20, 2017, before the Senate warned of a constitutional crisis if the President fired Mueller. On June 22, 2018, Warner hosted a fundraising party for 100 guests and was quoted there saying, \"If you get me one more glass of wine, I'll tell you stuff only Bob Mueller and I know. If you think you've seen wild stuff so far, buckle up. It's going to be a wild couple of months.\"\n\nOn October 30, 2017, Mueller filed charges against Paul Manafort and Rick Gates. The 12 charges include conspiracy to launder money, violations of the 1938 Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) as being an unregistered agent of a foreign principal, false and misleading FARA statements, and conspiracy against the United States.\n\nOn December 1, 2017, Mueller reached a plea agreement with former national security adviser Michael T. Flynn, who pleaded guilty to giving false testimony to the FBI about his contacts with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. As part of Flynn's negotiations, his son, Michael G. Flynn, is not expected to be charged, and Flynn is prepared to testify that high-level officials on Trump's team directed him to make contact with the Russians. On February 16, 2018, Mueller indicted 13 Russian individuals and 3 Russian companies for attempting to trick Americans into consuming Russian propaganda that targeted Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and later President-elect Donald Trump.\n\nOn February 20, 2018, Mueller charged attorney Alex van der Zwaan with making false statements in the Russia probe.\n\nOn May 20, 2018, President Donald Trump criticized Mueller, tweeting \"the World's most expensive Witch Hunt has found nothing on Russia & me so now they are looking at the rest of the World!\" Mueller started investigating the August 2016 meeting between Donald Trump Jr. and an emissary for the crown princes of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The emissary offered help to the Trump presidential campaign. Mueller is also investigating the Trump campaign's possible ties to Turkey, Qatar, Israel, and China.\n\nMueller met his future wife, Ann Cabell Standish, at a high school party when they were 17. Standish attended Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Connecticut, and Sarah Lawrence College, before working as a special-education teacher for children with learning disabilities. In September 1966, they married at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church in Sewickley, Pennsylvania. They have two daughters and three grandchildren. One of their daughters was born with spina bifida.\n\nIn 2001, Mueller's Senate confirmation hearings to head the FBI were delayed several months while he underwent treatment for prostate cancer. He was diagnosed in the fall of 2000, postponing being sworn in as FBI director until he received a good prognosis from his physician.\n\nAlthough raised Presbyterian, he became an Episcopalian later in life.\n\nMueller received the following military awards and decorations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39847319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39847319", "title": "Royal police", "text": "Royal police\n\nRoyal police is a civilian police organisation whose task is to safeguard a monarch and his/her family. The military counterpart is called royal guard.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14311200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14311200", "title": "Secure messaging", "text": "Secure messaging\n\nSecure messaging is a server-based approach to protect sensitive data when sent beyond the corporate borders and provides compliance with industry regulations such as HIPAA, GLBA and SOX. Advantages over classical secure e-mail are that confidential and authenticated exchanges can be started immediately by any internet user worldwide since there is no requirement to install any software nor to obtain or to distribute cryptographic keys beforehand. Secure messages provide non-repudiation as the recipients (similar to online banking) are personally identified and transactions are logged by the secure email platform.\n\nSecure messaging works as an online messaging service. Users enroll to a secure messaging platform. The user logs into his account by typing in his username and password (or strong authentication) similar to a web-based email account. Out of a message center messages can be sent over a secure SSL-connection or via other equally protecting methods to any recipient. If the recipient is contacted for the first time a message unlock code (see below MUC) is needed to authenticate the recipient. Alternatively, Secure Messaging can be used out of any standard email program without installing software.\n\nSecure Messaging possesses different types of delivery: secured web interface, S/MIME or PGP encrypted communication or TLS secured connections to email domains or individual email clients. One single secure message can be sent to different recipients with different types of secure delivery the sender does not have to worry about.\n\nSecure Messaging relies on the method of the dynamic personal web of trust. This method synthesizes the authentication approach of web of trust, known from PGP, with the advantages of hierarchical structures, known from centralized PKI systems. Those combined with certificates provide high quality of electronic identities. This approach focuses on the user and allows for immediate and personal bootstrapping of trust, respectively revocation.\n\nIn traditional client-server email, message data is downloaded to a local hard drive, and is vulnerable if the computer is lost, stolen, or physically accessed by an unauthorized person. Secure Messages are stored on a network or internet server which are typically more physically secure, and are encrypted when data is inbound or outbound. However, an abundance of data still makes the server an attractive target for remote attacks. Of course, the intentions of the server operator may also come into question.\n\nSecure Messaging is used in many business areas with company-wide and sensitive data exchanges. Financial institutions, insurance companies, public services, health organizations and service providers rely on the protection from Secure Messaging. Secure Messaging can be easily integrated into the corporate email infrastructures.\n\nIn the government context, secure messaging can offer electronic registered mail functions. For this to be binding, some countries, such as Switzerland, require it to be accredited as a secure platform.\n\nThere is no software required for using Secure Messaging. Users only need a valid email address and a working internet connection with an up-to-date web browser.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24618392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24618392", "title": "Sex Panic!", "text": "Sex Panic!\n\nSex Panic!, sometimes rendered SexPanic! or Sex Panic, was a sexual activism group founded in New York City in 1997. The group characterized itself as a \"pro-queer, pro-feminist, anti-racist direct action group\" campaigning for sexual freedom in the age of AIDS. It was founded to oppose both mainstream political measures to control sex, and elements within the gay community who advocated same-sex marriage and the restriction of public sexual culture as solutions to the HIV crisis. The group has been depicted as a faction in a gay \"culture war\" of the late 20th and early 21st centuries.\n\nSex Panic!'s actions and attitudes were criticized as immature and even fanatical by its opponents, but other commentators called the group a vital component of grassroots gay activism that resisted gay marginalization and countered forced conformity to social norms.\n\nAccording to founder member Christopher Murray, in a 1997 letter to the \"New York Times\", Sex Panic! was formed by six HIV-positive gay men opposed to a \"gay neo-conservative movement\" and to the closure of gay venues around New York.\n\nThe closure of gay venues stemmed from the urban rezoning policies of New York City mayor Rudolph Giuliani's administration. Giuliani had passed laws that made it harder for sex-related businesses to operate in central city areas, forcing many to close or relocate to the waterfront. These policies, Sex Panic! founder Michael Warner wrote, served to stigmatize sex and sexuality in ways that had negative consequences for public health efforts to combat HIV and AIDS. Reducing the availability and visibility of venues for sex did not, Warner, argued, make people safer; on the contrary it reduced the number of public sites where safer sex messages could be broadcast and gay men encouraged to consider their sexual health honestly, critically, and without the confusion and misinformation fostered by a culture of shame.\n\nAs well as mainstream politics, the group opposed the anti-promiscuity arguments of prominent gay rights campaigners Larry Kramer, Andrew Sullivan, Michelangelo Signorile, and Gabriel Rotello. Sullivan's 1995 book \"\" had called for the abandonment of radical gay identity politics in favour of campaigning for the right to marry, which he presented as the highest social value attainable and the token of a maturity and moral responsibility the gay movement had lacked. Sullivan's arguments for marriage included the assertion that it was a good defense against the spread of HIV and AIDS; Rotello argued similarly that these diseases could not be eradicated so long as a 'core group' of gay men participated in risky sex. Marriage, Rotello suggested in his 1997 book \"Sexual Ecology\", was a powerful incentive to behaviour less likely to spread disease, while exclusion from the benefits it offered created an equally powerful stigma. These views, the founders of Sex Panic! argued, supported a mainstream political culture that demonized gay people and portrayed gay sex in general, rather than unsafe sex in particular, as a vector of disease.\n\nThe organization's name references a concept used by historians to describe repressive measures against sex in the name of the public good; 'sex panics' in this sense have been documented since at least the nineteenth century. A Gay City News journalist, evaluating the group's role in the history of sex scandals through the 1980s, 1990s, and 2000s, described the choice of name as an act of self-empowerment.\n\nFounder and early members of Sex Panic! included historian Allan Bérubé, Christopher Murray, art historian Douglas Crimp, Columbia Law School professor Kendall Thomas, Rutgers University English professor Michael Warner, research activist Greg Gonsalves, and scientific artist Dennis Davidson. Feminist authors Eva Pendleton, Jane Goldschmidt of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, and literary critic Ann Pellegrini were also early members.\n\nMembers Eva Pendleton and Jane Goldschmidt articulated Sex Panic!'s goals in 1998:\n\nThe group argued that the best response to sexual health crisis was to promote safer sex, and argued that approaches that contradicted the 'condom code' - the advocacy of barrier methods as the only sure protection - actually undermined efforts to curb the crisis by encouraging carelessness and hypocrisy. This opposed the group to the arguments of Rotello, Signorile, and others, who said that the spread of the disease was best contained by a \"new maturity\" of marriage and monogamy, sex with only one partner, and the deliberate use of shame to discourage participation in potentially risky sex. Such an approach, Sex Panic! argued, was either naive or deliberately disingenuous. Rather than demonizing sex with multiple partners, Sex Panic! stressed a need to counteract the effects of shame. They argued that it was absurd and repressive to insist that everyone adopt what Warner called a \"Fifties gay life\" of monogamy, to pretend that sex in private was somehow necessarily safer than sex in public, and outright dangerous to create a situation that bred ignorance about safer sex methods, despair over the possibilities for protecting oneself, and a resulting increase in infection rates. It was not gay sex or promiscuous sex, founder member Thomas pointed out, that spread HIV, but unsafe sex.\n\nSome of the group's tactics were deliberately eye-catching. The flyer for one 1997 event was headlined \"DANGER! ASSAULT! TURDZ!\", the latter a reference to Signorile, Rotello, Kramer, and Sullivan. Other activities included demonstrating alongside ACT-UP against the GMHC's plans to identify seropositive patients by name in public HIV status reporting, rather than the anonymized reporting the group favoured.\n\nOther measures were more conventional. In June 1997 the group conducted teach-ins at New York's Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center. The group also held a November 1997 summit in San Diego, California, where a series of lectures and workshops discussed what the group called an \"emerging culture war\" within the gay community and sought to forge alliances between gay men and other marginalized groups. At the conference, founder Eric Rofes urged attendees to start grass-roots movements of their own to combat the repression of sexual minorities. The outspoken methods of Sex Panic!, he argued, were indispensable, since the movement they fought worked by means of marginalization, silencing, and oppression. To be 'neutral' in the face of public discourses that sought to shame and marginalize gay communities, Rofes argued, was to be complicit in that shaming and marginalization.\n\nLarry Kramer, an overt target of the group's campaigns, published an editorial piece in the \"New York Times\" criticizing the group's tactics and goals. Sex Panic!, Kramer said, was \"on the way to convincing much of America that all gay men are back to pre-AIDS self-destructive behavior that will wind up costing the taxpayer a lot of extra money.\"\n\nOther commentators accused Sex Panic! of irresponsibility in the face of the HIV epidemic. David Dalton, in the San Francisco Examiner, said the group was telling young men that \"a sex act... is worth more than your life.\" In \"Salon\", David Horowitz charged Sex Panic! with \"intellectual fascism and sexual fanaticism\" over their defence of sex clubs, which he characterized as the \"death camps of the current contagion.\" The group's insistence that a gay public sexual culture continue in the face of the epidemic was, in Horowitz's view, \"homicidal\", and its membership composed of \"sexual extremists\" cloistered in complicit universities. Sex Panic! member Douglas Crimp rebutted the charges that this was a mere intellectual exercise. Mainstream venues where such debate took place, he argued, were dominated by the group's opponents and had failed to engage with queer theory, so necessarily saw the group's members as fringe extremists. He argued too that the very life-and-death nature of the AIDS crisis made the group's purpose political, rather than academic, rejecting the claim that the group's insistence on the complexity of the issues it addressed was \"dangerous relativism\".\n\nOthers were sympathetic to parts of Sex Panic!'s manifesto but opposed to certain particulars. David Salyer in \"Survival News\", a journal of the AIDS Survival Project, applauded the group's demands for an end to discrimination and greater promotion of safer sex messages, but objected to the emphasis the group placed on public sex.\nActivist John-Manuel Andriote also criticized Sex Panic!'s assertion that public, visible, anonymous sex was necessarily a cornerstone of gay experience. Michael Warner had told the \"New York Times\" that \"'It is an absurd fantasy to expect gay men to live without a sexual culture when we have almost nothing else that brings us together\". Andriote responded that the AIDS crisis itself had been an alternative community-forming experience for gays and lesbians, who cooperated to support one another and campaign for awareness. Through the crisis, Andriote said, gay men had acquired a broader common experience than \"a priapic brotherhood of sexual rebellion\", offering an alternative grounds for a group politics of identity.\n\nSex Panic! members accused their opponents of mischaracterizing their positions. Founder member Kendall Thomas objected to a \"New York Times\" piece claiming the group saw \"promiscuous sex\" as the \"essence of gay liberation\"; the newspaper printed an amendment, stating Thomas's view to be that \"any attempt to fight AIDS by demonizinging <nowiki>[</nowiki>\"sic\"<nowiki>]</nowiki> the culture of sexual freedom is doomed\".\n\nTim Dean called the group's criticism of Rotello and Signorile \"utterly confused and defensive\", but noted its significance in re-energizing AIDS debates and reviving the political argument over gay assimilation. Craig Rimmerman similarly praised the group's \"invaluable contribution\" to sustaining gay and lesbian grassroots activism and fighting \"normalizing tendencies\" in public discourse about sexual health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "206992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206992", "title": "Shalom aleichem", "text": "Shalom aleichem\n\nShalom aleikhem (; \"shālôm ʻalêḵem\") is a spoken greeting in Hebrew, meaning \"peace be upon you.\" The appropriate response is \"aleikhem shalom\" (\"unto you peace\") ().\n\nThis form of greeting is traditional among Jews throughout the world. It occurs six times in the Jerusalem Talmud. The greeting is more common amongst Ashkenazi Jews. Only the plural form \"\" is used even when addressing one person. A religious explanation for this is that one greets both the body and the soul, but Hebrew does occasionally use the plural as a sign of respect (e.g. a name of God is Elohim , literally gods).\n\nMany religions share cognates to this greeting.\n\nThe related Arabic variation \"\", (\"peace be upon you\") is used by Arabs of different religions as a greeting and by Muslims of many language and ethnic backgrounds. The appropriate response is Wa alaikum salaam (\"unto you peace\"). (In Arabic ) As-salāmu alaykum and its variants are used by Muslims outside of the Arab world in Turkey, Indonesia, Central Asia, Iran, Sahel Africa, East Africa, and many other places.\nAramaic and classical Syriac use which means \"peace for you.\"\n\nWithin the Catholic and Orthodox Churches, \"Peace be with you\" (in Greek: , in Latin: ) is the initial liturgical greeting by a bishop or priest during divine services. In at Mass catholic priests who are not bishops say \"The Lord be with you.\" The response is \"And with your spirit.\" A somewhat similar greeting used within the Mass by bishops and priests is \"The peace of the Lord be with you always.\" In Orthodox Church the greeting is always the same: \"Peace be with you\".\n\nSimilarly, \"Peace be with you\" is used within Anglican liturgies of the Episcopal Church and other Anglican churches, with the response being \"And also with you.\" The same is true of some Presbyterian and Reformed churches, such as the Presbyterian Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "45802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45802", "title": "Social capital", "text": "Social capital\n\nSocial capital broadly refers to those factors of effectively functioning social groups that include such things as interpersonal relationships, a shared sense of identity, a shared understanding, shared norms, shared values, trust, cooperation, and reciprocity. However, the many views of this complex subject make a single definition difficult.\n\nThe term generally refers to (a) resources, and the value of these resources, both tangible (public spaces, private property) and intangible (\"actors\", \"human capital\", people), (b) the relationships among these resources, and (c) the impact that these relationships have on the resources involved in each relationship, and on larger groups. It is generally seen as a form of capital that produces public goods for a common good.\n\nSocial capital has been used to explain the improved performance of diverse groups, the growth of entrepreneurial firms, superior managerial performance, enhanced supply chain relations, the value derived from strategic alliances, and the evolution of communities.\n\nDuring the 1990s and 2000s, the concept has become increasingly popular in a wide range of social science disciplines and also in politics.\n\nThe term \"social capital\" was in intermittent use from about 1890, before becoming widely used in the late 1990s.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century, Alexis de Tocqueville had observations about American life that seemed to outline and define social capital. He observed that Americans were prone to meeting at as many gatherings as possible to discuss all possible issues of state, economics, or the world that could be witnessed. The high levels of transparency caused greater participation from the people and thus allowed for democracy to work better. The French writer highlighted also that the level of social participation (social capital) in American society was directly linked to the equality of conditions (Ferragina, 2010; 2012; 2013).\n\nL. J. Hanifan's 1916 article regarding local support for rural schools is one of the first occurrences of the term \"social capital\" in reference to social cohesion and personal investment in the community. In defining the concept, Hanifan contrasts social capital with material goods by defining it as:\n\nI do not refer to real estate, or to personal property or to cold cash, but rather to that in life which tends to make these tangible substances count for most in the daily lives of people, namely, goodwill, fellowship, mutual sympathy and social intercourse among a group of individuals and families who make up a social unit… If he may come into contact with his neighbour, and they with other neighbours, there will be an accumulation of social capital, which may immediately satisfy his social needs and which may bear a social potentiality sufficient to the substantial improvement of living conditions in the whole community. The community as a whole will benefit by the cooperation of all its parts, while the individual will find in his associations the advantages of the help, the sympathy, and the fellowship of his neighbours (pp. 130-131).\n\nJohn Dewey used the term in his monograph entitled \"School and Society\" in 1900, but he offered no definition of it.\n\nJane Jacobs used the term early in the 1960s. Although she did not explicitly define the term \"social capital\", her usage referred to the value of networks. Political scientist Robert Salisbury advanced the term as a critical component of interest group formation in his 1969 article \"An Exchange Theory of Interest Groups\" in the \"Midwest Journal of Political Science\". Sociologist Pierre Bourdieu used the term in 1972 in his \"Outline of a Theory of Practice\", and clarified the term some years later in contrast to cultural, economic, and symbolic capital. Sociologists James Coleman, and Barry Wellman & Scot Wortley adopted Glenn Loury's 1977 definition in developing and popularising the concept. In the late 1990s the concept gained popularity, serving as the focus of a World Bank research programme and the subject of several mainstream books, including Robert Putnam's \"Bowling Alone\" and Putnam and Lewis Feldstein's \"Better Together\".\n\nThe concept that underlies social capital has a much longer history; thinkers exploring the relation between associational life and democracy were using similar concepts regularly by the 19th century, drawing on the work of earlier writers such as James Madison (\"The Federalist Papers\") and Alexis de Tocqueville (\"Democracy in America\") to integrate concepts of social cohesion and connectedness into the pluralist tradition in American political science. John Dewey may have made the first direct mainstream use of \"social capital\" in \"The School and Society\" in 1899, though he did not offer a definition.\n\nThe power of \"community governance\" has been stressed by many philosophers from antiquity to the 18th century, from Aristotle to Thomas Aquinas and Edmund Burke (Bowles and Gintis, 2002). This vision was strongly criticised at the end of the 18th century, with the development of the idea of \"Homo Economicus\" and subsequently with \"rational choice theory\". Such a set of theories became dominant in the last centuries, but many thinkers questioned the complicated relationship between \"modern society\" and the importance of \"old institutions\", in particular family and traditional communities (Ferragina, 2010:75). The debate of community versus modernization of society and individualism has been the most discussed topic among the founders of sociology (Tönnies, 1887; Durkheim, 1893; Simmel, 1905; Weber, 1946). They were convinced that industrialisation and urbanization were transforming social relationships in an irreversible way. They observed a breakdown of traditional bonds and the progressive development of anomie and alienation in society (Wilmott, 1986).\n\nAfter Tönnies' and Weber's works, reflection on social links in modern society continued with interesting contributions in the 1950s and in the 1960s, in particular \"mass society theory\" (Bell, 1962; Nisbet, 1969; Stein, 1960; Whyte, 1956). They proposed themes similar to those of the founders, with a more pessimistic emphasis on the development of society (Ferragina, 2010: 76). In the words of Stein (1960:1): \"The price for maintaining a society that encourages cultural differentiation and experimentation is unquestionably the acceptance of a certain amount of disorganization on both the individual and social level.\" All these reflections contributed remarkably to the development of the social capital concept in the following decades.\n\nThe appearance of the modern social capital conceptualization is a new way to look at this debate, keeping together the importance of community to build generalized trust and the same time, the importance of individual free choice, in order to create a more cohesive society (Ferragina, 2010; Ferragina, 2012). It is for this reason that social capital generated so much interest in the academic and political world\n(Rose, 2000).\n\nPierre Bourdieu's work tends to show how social capital can be used practically to produce or reproduce inequality, demonstrating for instance how people gain access to powerful positions through the direct and indirect employment of social connections. Robert Putnam has used the concept in a much more positive light: though he was at first careful to argue that social capital was a neutral term, stating \"whether or not [the] shared are praiseworthy is, of course, entirely another matter\", his work on American society tends to frame social capital as a producer of \"civic engagement\" and also a broad societal measure of communal health. He also transforms social capital from a resource possessed by individuals to an attribute of collectives, focusing on norms and trust as producers of social capital to the exclusion of networks.\n\nMahyar Arefi identifies consensus building as a direct positive indicator of social capital. Consensus implies \"shared interest\" and agreement among various actors and stakeholders to induce collective action. Collective action is thus an indicator of increased social capital.\n\nEdwards and Foley, as editors of a special edition of the \"American Behavioural Scientist\" on \"Social Capital, Civil Society and Contemporary Democracy\", raised two key issues in the study of social capital. First, social capital is not equally available to all, in much the same way that other forms of capital are differently available. Geographic and social isolation limit access to this resource. Second, not all social capital is created equally. The value of a specific source of social capital depends in no small part on the socio-economic position of the source with society. On top of this, Portes has identified four negative consequences of social capital: exclusion of outsiders; excess claims on group members; restrictions on individual freedom; and downward levelling norms.\n\nVarshney studied the correlation between the presence of interethnic networks (bridging) versus intra-ethnic ones (bonding) on ethnic violence in India.\nHe argues that interethnic networks are agents of peace because they build bridges and manage tensions, by noting that if communities are organized only along intra-ethnic lines and the interconnections with other communities are very weak or even nonexistent, then ethnic violence is quite likely.\nThree main implications of intercommunal ties explain their worth:\n\nThis is a useful distinction; nevertheless its implication on social capital can only be accepted if one espouses the functionalist understanding of the latter concept. Indeed, it can be argued that interethnic, as well as intra-ethnic networks can serve various purposes, either increasing or diminishing social capital. In fact, Varshney himself notes that intraethnic policing (equivalent to the \"self-policing\" mechanism proposed by Fearon and Laitin) may lead to the same result as interethnic engagement.\n\nSocial capital is often linked to the success of democracy and political involvement. Robert D. Putnam, in his book \"Bowling Alone\" makes the argument that social capital is linked to the recent decline in American political participation. Putnam's theoretical framework has been firstly applied to the South of Italy (Putnam, 1993). This framework has been rediscussed by considering simultaneously the condition of European regions and specifically Southern Italy (Ferragina, 2012; Ferragina, 2013).\n\nSocial capital has multiple definitions, interpretations, and uses. Thomas Sander defines it as \"the collective value of all social networks (who people know), and the inclinations that arise from these networks to do things for each other (norms of reciprocity).\" Social capital, in this view, emphasizes \"specific benefits that flow from the trust, reciprocity, information, and cooperation associated with social networks\". It \"creates value for the people who are connected, and for bystanders as well.\" Meanwhile, negative norms of reciprocity serve as disincentives for detrimental and violent behaviors.\n\nDavid Halpern argues that the popularity of social capital for policymakers is linked to the concept's duality, coming because \"it has a hard nosed economic feel while restating the importance of the social.\" For researchers, the term is popular partly due to the broad range of outcomes it can explain; the multiplicity of uses for social capital has led to a multiplicity of definitions. Social capital has been used at various times to explain superior managerial performance, the growth of entrepreneurial firms, improved performance of functionally diverse groups, the value derived from strategic alliances, and enhanced supply chain relations.\n'A resource that actors derive from specific social structures and then use to pursue their interests; it is created by changes in the relationship among actors'; (Baker 1990, p. 619).\n\nEarly attempts to define social capital focused on the degree to which social capital as a resource should be used for public good or for the benefit of individuals. Putnam suggested that social capital would facilitate co-operation and mutually supportive relations in communities and nations and would therefore be a valuable means of combating many of the social disorders inherent in modern societies, for example crime. In contrast to those focusing on the individual benefit derived from the web of social relationships and ties individual actors find themselves in, attribute social capital to increased personal access to information and skill sets and enhanced power. According to this view, individuals could use social capital to further their own career prospects, rather than for the good of organisations.\n\nIn \"The Forms of Capital\" Pierre Bourdieu distinguishes between three forms of capital: economic capital, cultural capital and social capital. He defines social capital as \"the aggregate of the actual or potential resources which are linked to possession of a durable network of more or less institutionalized relationships of mutual acquaintance and recognition.\" His treatment of the concept is instrumental, focusing on the advantages to possessors of social capital and the \"deliberate construction of sociability for the purpose of creating this resource.\" Quite contrary to Putnam's positive view of social capital, Bourdieu employs the concept to demonstrate a mechanism for the generational reproduction of inequality. Bourdieu thus points out that the wealthy and powerful use their \"old boys network\" or other social capital to maintain advantages for themselves, their social class, and their children.\n\nJames Coleman defined social capital functionally as \"a variety of entities with two elements in common: they all consist of some aspect of social structure, and they facilitate certain actions of actors...within the structure\"—that is, social capital is anything that facilitates individual or collective action, generated by networks of relationships, reciprocity, trust, and social norms. In Coleman's conception, social capital is a neutral resource that facilitates any manner of action, but whether society is better off as a result depends entirely on the individual uses to which it is put.\n\nAccording to Robert Putnam, social capital \"connections among individuals – social networks and the norms of reciprocity and trustworthiness that arise from them.\" According to Putnam and his followers, social capital is a key component to building and maintaining democracy. Putnam says that social capital is declining in the United States. This is seen in lower levels of trust in government and lower levels of civic participation. Putnam also says that television and urban sprawl have had a significant role in making America far less 'connected'. Putnam believes that social capital can be measured by the amount of trust and \"reciprocity\" in a community or between individuals.\n\nPutnam also suggests that a root cause of the decline in social capital is women's entry the workforce, which could correlate with time restraints that inhibit civic organizational involvement like parent-teacher associations. Technological transformation of leisure (e.g., television) is another cause of declining social capital, as stated by Putnam. This offered a reference point from which several studies assessed social capital measurements by how media is engaged strategically to build social capital.\n\nNan Lin's concept of social capital has a more individualistic approach: \"Investment in social relations with expected returns in the marketplace.\" This may subsume the concepts of some others such as Bourdieu, Flap and Eriksson.\n\nNewton (1997) considered social capital as subjective phenomenon formed by values and attitudes which influence interactions.\n\nIn “Social capital, civil society, and development,” political economist Francis Fukuyama defines social capital as generally understood rules than enable people to cooperate such as the norm of reciprocity or religious doctrine like Christianity. Social capital is formed by repeated interactions over time and he argues is critical for development and difficult to generate through public policy. The importance of social capital for economic development is that these norms of behavior reduce transaction cost of exchange such as legal contracts and government regulations. Fukuyama suggests that while social capital is beneficial for development, it also imposes cost on non-group members with unintended consequences for general welfare. Referencing Alexis de Tocqueville in \"Democracy in America,\" and what he described as the ‘art of association’ of Americans’ propensity for civil association, Fukuyama argues social capital is what produces a civil society. While civic engagement is an important part of democracy and development, Fukuyama states that, “one person’s civic engagement is another’s rent-seeking.” Therefore, while social capital can facilitate economic development by reducing transaction cost and increasing productivity, social capital can also distort democracy if civic association enables special interest to gain special favors. However, Fukuyama argues despite the risk of society having too much social capital, it is nonetheless worse to have too little and be unable to organize for public goods and welfare enhancing activity.\n\nNahapiet and Ghoshal in their examination of the role of social capital in the creation of intellectual capital, suggest that social capital should be considered in terms of three clusters: structural, relational, and cognitive. Carlos García Timón describes that the structural dimensions of social capital relate to an individual ability to make weak and strong ties to others within a system. This dimension focuses on the advantages derived from the configuration of an actor's, either individual or collective, network. The differences between weak and strong ties are explained by Granovetter. The relational dimension focuses on the character of the connection between individuals. This is best characterized through trust of others and their cooperation and the identification an individual has within a network. Hazleton and Kennan added a third angle, that of communication. Communication is needed to access and use social capital through exchanging information, identifying problems and solutions, and managing conflict. According to Boisot and Boland and Tenkasi, meaningful communication requires at least some sharing context between the parties to such exchange. The cognitive dimension focuses on the shared meaning and understanding that individuals or groups have with one another.\n\nA number of scholars have raised concerns about lack of precise definition of social capital. Portes, for example, noted that the term has become so widely used, including in mainstream media, that \"the point is approaching at which social capital comes to be applied to so many events and in so many different contexts as to lose any distinct meaning.\" Robison, Schmid, and Siles reviewed various definitions of social capital and concluded that many did not satisfy the formal requirement of a definition. They noted that definitions must be of the form A=B while many definition of social capital described what it can be used to achieve, where it resides, how it can be created, and what it can transform. In addition, they argue that many proposed definition of social capital fail to satisfy the requirements of capital. They propose that social capital be defined as \"sympathy\". The object of another's sympathy has social capital. Those who have sympathy for others provide social capital. One of the main advantages of having social capital is that it provides access to resources on preferential terms. Their definition of sympathy follows that used by Adam Smith, the title of his first chapter in the \"Theory of Moral Sentiments.\"\n\nA network-based conception can also be used for characterizing the social capital of collectivities (such as organizations or business clusters). Lester (name change to Amber Persons) noted that negative social capital may be the cause for disadvantageous differences among minority firms versus majority firms. While studying norms among African-American family firms and Euro-American family firms, Lester noted that negative social capital was created when the owner of the company was pressured to engage in social behavior not conducive to firm profits.\n\nThe modern emergence of social capital concept renewed the academic interest for an old debate in social science: the relationship between trust, social networks and the development of modern industrial society. Social Capital Theory gained importance through the integration of classical sociological theory with the description of an intangible form of capital. In this way the classical definition of capital has been overcome allowing researchers to tackle issues in a new manner (Ferragina, 2010:73).\nThrough the social capital concept researchers have tried to propose a synthesis between the value contained in the communitarian approaches and individualism professed by the 'rational choice theory.' Social capital can only be generated collectively thanks to the presence of communities and social networks, but individuals and groups can use it at the same time. Individuals can exploit social capital of their networks to achieve private objectives and groups can use it to enforce a certain set of norms or behaviors. In this sense, social capital is generated collectively but it can also be used individually, bridging the dichotomized approach 'communitarianism' versus 'individualism' (Ferragina, 2010:75).\n\nThe term \"capital\" is used by analogy with other forms of economic capital, as social capital is argued to have similar (although less measurable) benefits. However, the analogy with capital is misleading to the extent that, unlike traditional forms of capital, social capital is not depleted by use; in fact it is depleted by non-use (\"use it or lose it\"). In this respect, it is similar to the now well-established economic concept of human capital.\n\nSocial capital is also distinguished from the economic theory social capitalism. Social capitalism as a theory challenges the idea that socialism and capitalism are mutually exclusive. Social capitalism posits that a strong social support network for the poor enhances capital output. By decreasing poverty, capital market participation is enlarged.\n\nIn \"Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community\" (Putnam, 2000), Harvard political scientist Robert D. Putnam wrote: \"Henry Ward Beecher's advice a century ago to 'multiply picnics' is not entirely ridiculous today. We should do this, ironically, not because it will be good for America — though it will be — but because it will be good for us.\"\n\nDaniel P. Aldrich, Associate Professor at Purdue University, describes three mechanisms of social capital. Aldrich defines the three differences as bonding, bridging, and linking social capital. Bonding capital are the relationships a person has with friends and family, making it also the strongest form of social capital. Bridging capital is the relationship between friends of friends, making its strength secondary to bonding capital. Linking capital is the relationship between a person and a government official or other elected leader. Aldrich also applies the ideas of social capital to the fundamental principles of disaster recovery, and discusses factors that either aid or impede recovery, such as extent of damage, population density, quality of government and aid. He primarily examines Japanese recovery following the 2011 Fukishima nuclear meltdown in his book \"Building Resilience: Social Capital in Post-Disaster Recovery.\"\n\nPutnam speaks of two main components of the concept: \"bonding social capital\" and \"bridging social capital\", the creation of which Putnam credits to Ross Gittell and Avis Vidal. Bonding refers to the value assigned to social networks between homogeneous groups of people and Bridging refers to that of social networks between socially heterogeneous groups. Typical examples are that criminal gangs create bonding social capital, while choirs and bowling clubs (hence the title, as Putnam lamented their decline) create bridging social capital.\n\nThe distinction is useful in highlighting how social capital may not always be beneficial for society as a whole (though it is always an asset for those individuals and groups involved). Horizontal networks of individual citizens and groups that enhance community productivity and cohesion are said to be positive social capital assets whereas self-serving exclusive gangs and hierarchical patronage systems that operate at cross purposes to societal interests can be thought of as negative social capital burdens on society.\n\nSocial capital development on the internet via social networking websites such as Facebook or Myspace tends to be bridging capital according to one study, though \"virtual\" social capital is a new area of research.\n\nThere are two other sub-sources of social capital. These are consummatory, or a behavior that is made up of actions that fulfill a basis of doing what is inherent, and instrumental, or behavior that is taught through ones surroundings over time.\n\nTwo examples of consummatory social capital are value interjection and solidarity. Value interjection pertains to a person or community that fulfills obligations such as paying bills on time, philanthropy, and following the rules of society. People that live their life this way feel that these are norms of society and are able to live their lives free of worry for their credit, children, and receive charity if needed. Coleman goes on to say that when people live in this way and benefit from this type of social capital, individuals in the society are able to rest assured that their belongings and family will be safe. This understanding of solidarity may be traced to 19th century socialist thinkers. The main focus of these thinkers was the urban working class of the Industrial Revolution. They analyzed the reasons these workers supported each other for the benefit of the group and held that this support was an adaptation to the immediate social environment, as opposed to a trait that had been taught to the workers in their youth. As another example, Coleman states that possessing this type of social capital individuals to stand up for what they believe in, and even die for it, in the face of adversity. (While the notion of solidarity as social capital is sometimes attributed to Karl Marx, in particular, the term \"social capital\" had a quite different meaning for Marx. All forms of \"capital\" were, for Marx, possessed only by capitalists and he emphasied the basis of labour in capitalist society, as a class constituted by individuals obliged to sell their labour power, because they lacked sufficient capital, in any sense of the word, to do otherwise. Marx saw \"social capital\" as a theoretical total amount of capital, purely in the sense of accumulated wealth or property, that existed within in a particular society. He thereby contrasted it with specific and discrete \"individual capital\".)\n\nThe second of these two other sub-sources of social capital is that of instrumental social capital. The basis of the category of social capital is that an individual who donates his or her resources not because he is seeking direct repayment from the recipient, but because they are part of the same social structure. By his or her donation, the individual might not see a direct repayment, but, most commonly, they will be held by the society in greater honor. The best example of this, and the one that Portes mentions, is the donation of a scholarship to a member of the same ethnic group. The donor is not freely giving up his resources to be directly repaid by the recipient, but, as stated above, the honor of the community. With this in mind, the recipient might not know the benefactor personally, but he or she prospers on the sole factor that he or she is a member of the same social group.\n\nSocial capital is also linked with religious communities. Religion represents important aspect of social capital (religious social capital).\n\nThere is no widely held consensus on how to measure social capital, which has become a debate in itself. Why refer to this phenomenon as 'capital' if there is no true way to measure it? While one can usually intuitively sense the level/amount of social capital present in a given relationship(regardless of type or scale), quantitative measuring has proven somewhat complicated. This has resulted in different metrics for different functions.\n\nOne type of quantitative social capital measure uses name generators to construct social networks and to measure the level of social capital. These networks are constructed by asking participants to name people that they interact with, such as \"Name all the people you've discussed important matters within the past six months.\" Name generators are often useful to construct core discussion networks of close ties, rather than weaker ties.\n\nMany studies measure social capital by asking the question: \"do you trust the others?\" Other researches analyse the participation in voluntary associations or civic activities.\n\nTo expand upon the methodological potential of measuring online and offline social bonding, as it relates to social capital, offers a matrix of social capital measures that distinguishes social bridging as a form of less emotionally tethered relationships compared to bonding. Bonding and bridging sub-scales are proposed, which have been adopted by over 300 scholarly articles. Lin, Peng, Kim, Kim & LaRose (2012) offer a noteworthy application of the scale by measuring international residents originating from locations outside of the United States. The study found that social media platforms like Facebook provide an opportunity for increased social capital, but mostly for extroverts. However, less introverted social media users could engage social media and build social capital by connecting with Americans before arriving and then maintaining old relationships from home upon arriving to the states. The ultimate outcome of the study indicates that social capital is measurable and is a concept that may be operationalized to understand strategies for coping with cross-cultural immersion through online engagement.\n\nThe level of cohesion of a group also affects its social capital and vica versa. However, there is no one quantitative way of determining the level of cohesiveness, but rather a collection of social network models that researchers have used over the decades to operationalize social capital. One of the dominant methods is Ronald Burt's constraint measure, which taps into the role of tie strength and group cohesion. Another network-based model is network transitivity.\n\nIn measuring political social capital, it is common to take the sum of society's membership of its groups. Groups with higher membership (such as political parties) contribute more to the amount of capital than groups with lower membership, although many groups with low membership (such as communities) still add up to be significant. While it may seem that this is limited by population, this need not be the case as people join multiple groups. In a study done by Yankee City, a community of 17,000 people was found to have over 22,000 different groups.\n\nKnack and Keefer (1996) measured econometrically correlations between confidence and civic cooperation norms, with economic growth in a big group of countries. They found that confidence and civic cooperation have a great impact in economic growth, and that in less polarized societies in terms of inequality and ethnic differences, social capital is bigger.\n\nNarayan and Pritchet (1997) researched the associativity degree and economic performance in rural homes of Tanzania. They saw that even in high poverty indexes, families with higher levels of incomes had more participation in collective organizations. The social capital they accumulated because of this participation had individual benefits for them, and created collective benefits through different routes, for example: their agricultural practices were better than those of the families without participation (they had more information about agrochemicals, fertilizers and seeds); they had more information about the market; they were prepared to take more risks, because being part of a social network made them feel more protected; they had an influence on the improvement of public services, showing a bigger level of participation in schools; they cooperated more in the municipality level.\n\nHow a group relates to the rest of society also affects social capital, but in a different manner. Strong internal ties can in some cases weaken the group's perceived capital in the eyes of the general public, as in cases where the group is geared towards crime, distrust, intolerance, violence or hatred towards others. The Ku Klux Klan is an example of this kind of organizations.\n\nSociologists Carl L. Bankston and Min Zhou have argued that one of the reasons social capital is so difficult to measure is that it is neither an individual-level nor a group-level phenomenon, but one that emerges across levels of analysis as individuals participate in groups. They argue that the metaphor of \"capital\" may be misleading because unlike financial capital, which is a resource held by an individual, the benefits of forms of social organization are not held by actors, but are results of the participation of actors in advantageously organized groups.\n\nRecently, Foschi and Lauriola presented a measure of sociability as a proxy of social capital. The authors demonstrated that facets of sociability can mediate between general personality traits and measures of civic involvement and political participation, as predictors of social capital, in a holistic model of political behavior.\n\nRobert Putnam's work contributed to shape the discussion of the importance of social capital. His conclusions have been praised but also criticized. Criticism has mainly focused on:\n\nFerragina (2012; 2013) integrated the insights of these two criticisms and proposed a cross-regional analysis of 85 European regions, linking together the socio-economic and the historic- institutional analyses to explore the determinants of social capital. He argued that to investigate the determinants of social capital, one has to integrate the synchronic and the diachronic perspectives under the guidance of a methodological framework able to put these two approaches in continuity.\n\nPutnam's work, nourished by doctrines like the \"end of history\" (Fukuyama 1992) was largely deterministic, and proposed the dismissal of more articulated historical interpretations. This determinism has reduced Southern Italian history as being a negative path to modernity; only the Italian regions that experienced the development of medieval towns during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries have got high levels of social capital today, the others 'are condemned' by the prevalence of the authoritarian rule of the Normans more than 800 years ago.\n\nHowever, from a purely historical perspective, the medieval town is not unanimously considered to be a symbol of freedom, creation of horizontal ties and embryo of democratic life. In Making Democracy Work, Putnam disregarded the division within municipal towns and their dearth of civic participation and considered only the experience of few areas in North Central Italy, ignoring the existence of important towns in the South.\n\nTo this more complicated historical picture, Ferragina (2012) added the result of a regression model, which indicated that social capital in the South of Italy and Wallonia should be much lower than currently detected according to their socio-economic condition. He unfolded Putnam's theory by undertaking a comparative analysis between these two deviant cases and two regular cases located in the same country, namely Flanders and the North of Italy. The historical legacy does not have a negative effect on the present lack of social capital in Wallonia and the South of Italy, but the potentially positive effect of the historical legacy is currently curtailed by the poor socio-economic conditions, notably by the high level of income inequality and the low level of labour market participation. This historical interpretation is driven by the comparison with Flanders and the North East of Italy.\n\nThe value of the historical legacy for present socio-economic development is similar to the 'appropriable social capital' theorized by Coleman (1990) at the individual level. Using the example of the Korean students, Coleman argued that the construction of a secret network of people (at a time in which the appreciation for the authoritarian government was rapidly declining among the population) as a means of organizing the democratic revolt was the result of a process of socialization that took place during their childhood (with the involvement in the local churches).\n\nThe relation between historical evolutions and the socio-economic variables has similar characteristics at the macro level. Only after reaching a sufficient level of labour market activity and income redistribution (this is comparable to the growing unpopularity of the authoritarian government) can the memory of historical events of social engagement become fully appropriable by the population (this is comparable to the participation in the local churches during childhood), leading to the development of innovative forms of social participation (this is comparable to the construction of the secret circles that enhanced the democratic revolt). This process increases social capital even further if socio-economic development is matched by the revival of the unique historical legacy of the area. The reconstruction of this unique past can rapidly become a source of pride for the entire area, contributing in turn to an increasing intra-regional solidarity, and with it enhancement of social networks and social trust.\n\nThe Flemish case (and also to a lesser extent that of the North East of Italy) illustrates this process well. The socio-economic improvements that took place in the nineteenth century were matched by the revival of the glorious Flemish traditions of the thirteenth and fourteenth century. The increase of social capital generated by the reduction of income inequality and the increasing participation in the labour market due to the economic development was multiplied by the reconstruction of Flemish identity and pride. This pride and self-confidence has, in turn, increased the feeling of solidarity within the region and contributed to generate a level of social capital, which is hardly explicable by the single socio-economic predictors.\n\nFerragina suggests that, in the divergent cases, the value of the historical legacy is affected by the poor present socio-economic conditions. Social capital sleeps, not because of the absence of certain clearly defined historical steps as suggested by Putnam, but because socio-economic underdevelopment profoundly depressed the self-pride of Southern Italians and Walloons.\n\nThe biased and simplistic interpretations of Southern Italian and Walloon history will be discarded only when their socio-economic conditions reach a sufficient level, enacting a cycle similar to Flanders and the North East of Italy. Stronger redistribution, an increase of labour market participation accompanied by a simultaneous process of 'reinvention of the past' could enhance a positive cycle of social capital increase in both areas. The historical legacy in these two areas should not be seen as the root of the present lack of social capital but as a potential element for improvement. Important moments of social engagement also existed in the history of these two areas; the imagery of Walloons and Southern Italians should be nourished by these almost forgotten examples of collective history (i.e. the Fasci Siciliani in the south of Italy) rather than the prevailing idea that the historical legacy of these areas is simply an original sin, a burden to carry through the process of modernization.\n\nRobison and colleagues measured the relative importance of selfishness and four social capital motives using resource allocation data collected in hypothetical surveys and non-hypothetical experiments. The selfishness motive assumes that an agent's allocation of a scarce resource is independent of his relationships with others. This motive is sometimes referred to as the selfishness of preference assumption in neoclassical economics. Social capital motives assume that agents' allocation of a scarce resource may be influenced by their social capital or sympathetic relationships with others which may produce socio-emotional goods that satisfy socio-emotional needs for validation and belonging. The first social capital motive seeks for validation by acting consistently with the values of one's ideal self. The second social capital motive seeks to be validated by others by winning their approval. The third social capital motive seeks to belong. Recognizing that one may not be able to influence the sympathy of others, persons seeking to belong may act to increase their own sympathy for others and the organizations or institutions they represent. The fourth social capital motive recognizes that our sympathy or social capital for another person will motivate us to act in their interest. In doing so we satisfy our own needs for validation and belonging. Empirical results reject the hypothesis often implied in economics that we are 95% selfish.\n\nThe social capital concept has influenced academic literature and public debate through the specter of social disintegration: would anybody disagree with the fact that we need healthy communities and civic engagement to protect our democracies? Ferragina and Arrigoni have argued that the popularity of this theory is rooted in the connection made with neoliberalism by James Coleman (1990) and Robert Putnam (1993). They contend that social capital theory has become an analytical tool to avoid the debate on the effects of neoliberal policies on civic engagement (Ferragina and Arrigoni 2016: 9).\n\nMore specifically, by elaborating the most popular version of social capital theory, Putnam (1993) revitalised Tocqueville's seminal work on American democracy, showing that 'the health of liberal democracy' depends upon social engagement. However, in linking social capital, neoliberalism, and rational choice theory, Putnam did not consider that the intensity of social engagement in a society tends to be strictly related to the level of economic inequality (Ferragina, 2010, 2012) and other structural factors (Costa and Kahn, 2003), such as the universal nature of the welfare state (Rothstein, 2008). Hence, by arguing that the disadvantaged need more social capital to insure themselves against the odds of a competitive world, Putnam implicitly suggests that being powerless is a result of not having enough capital rather than a structural problem of society (Ferragina and Arrigoni 2016).\n\nHowever, in a period during which neoliberal governance is showing many drawbacks and the marked incapacity to deliver economic growth (Piketty, 2014), it is possible that to strengthen secondary groups and social engagement, more equality and greater levels of solidarity are needed (as classically argued by Tocqueville, see Ferragina, 2010).\n\nThere is a tension between the individualisation of social risks pursued by several political parties and the call to create social capital: it is becoming harder to blame the individual for collective problems. Prior to the start of the economic crisis in 2008, the tension between rising economic inequality and the demand to strengthen civic engagement was undermined by neoliberalism's capacity to sustain a certain level of economic growth. One might claim this capacity contributed to a transposition of social capital theory within public discourse. The limitations of finance as the central engine of economic growth, the material hardships fostered by the crisis, and the austerity measures implemented by governments in response to these challenges are critically undermining the legitimacy of neoliberal policies (Ferragina and Arrigoni 2016: 10).\n\nA number of authors give definitions of civil society that refer to voluntary associations and organisations outside the market and state. This definition is very close to that of the third sector, which consists of \"private organisations that are formed and sustained by groups of people acting voluntarily and without seeking personal profit to provide benefits for themselves or for others\". According to such authors as Walzer, Alessandrini, Newtown, Stolle and Rochon, Foley and Edwards, and Walters, it is through civil society, or more accurately, the third sector, that individuals are able to establish and maintain relational networks. These voluntary associations also connect people with each other, build trust and reciprocity through informal, loosely structured associations, and consolidate society through altruism without obligation. It is \"this range of activities, services and associations produced by... civil society\" that constitutes the sources of social capital.\n\nIf civil society, then, is taken to be synonymous with the third sector then the question it seems is not 'how important is social capital to the production of a civil society?' but 'how important is civil society to the production of social capital?'. Not only have the authors above documented how civil society produces sources of social capital, but in Lyons work \"Third Sector\", social capital does not appear in any guise under either the factors that enable or those that stimulate the growth of the third sector, and Onyx describes how social capital depends on an already functioning community.\n\nThe idea that creating social capital (i.e., creating networks) will strengthen civil society underlies current Australian social policy aimed at bridging deepening social divisions. The goal is to reintegrate those marginalised from the rewards of the economic system into \"the community\". However, according to Onyx (2000), while the explicit aim of this policy is inclusion, its effects are exclusionary.\n\nFoley and Edwards believe that \"political systems... are important determinants of both the character of civil society and of the uses to which whatever social capital exists might be put\". Alessandrini agrees, saying, \"in Australia in particular, neo-liberalism has been recast as economic rationalism and identified by several theorists and commentators as a danger to society at large because of the use to which they are putting social capital to work\".\n\nThe resurgence of interest in social capital as a remedy for the cause of today's social problems draws directly on the assumption that these problems lie in the weakening of civil society. However this ignores the arguments of many theorists who believe that social capital leads to exclusion rather than to a stronger civil society. In international development, Ben Fine and John Harriss have been heavily critical of the inappropriate adoption of social capital as a supposed panacea (promoting civil society organisations and NGOs, for example, as agents of development) for the inequalities generated by neo liberal economic development. This leads to controversy as to the role of state institutions in the promotion of social capital.\nAn abundance of social capital is seen as being almost a necessary condition for modern liberal democracy. A low level of social capital leads to an excessively rigid and unresponsive political system and high levels of corruption, in the political system and in the region as a whole. Formal public institutions require social capital in order to function properly, and while it is possible to have too much social capital (resulting in rapid changes and excessive regulation), it is decidedly worse to have too little.\n\nKathleen Dowley and Brian Silver published an article entitled \"Social Capital, Ethnicity and Support for Democracy in the Post-Communist States\". This article found that in post-communist states, higher levels of social capital did not equate to higher levels of democracy. However, higher levels of social capital led to higher support for democracy.\n\nA number of intellectuals in developing countries have argued that the idea of social capital, particularly when connected to certain ideas about civil society, is deeply implicated in contemporary modes of donor and NGO driven imperialism and that it functions, primarily, to blame the poor for their condition.\n\nThe concept of social capital in a Chinese social context has been closely linked with the concept of \"guanxi\".\n\nAn interesting attempt to measure social capital spearheaded by Corporate Alliance in the English speaking market segment of the United States of America and Xentrum through the Latin American Chamber of Commerce in Utah on the Spanish speaking population of the same country, involves the quantity, quality and strength of an individual social capital. With the assistance of software applications and web-based relationship-oriented systems such as LinkedIn, these kinds of organizations are expected to provide its members with a way to keep track of the \"number\" of their relationships, meetings designed to boost the \"strength\" of each relationship using group dynamics, executive retreats and networking events as well as training in how to reach out to higher circles of \"influential\" people.\n\nThere are many factors that drive volume towards the ballot box, including education, employment, civil skills, and time. Careful evaluation of these fundamental factors often suggests that women do not vote at similar levels as men. However the gap between women and men voter turnout is diminishing and in some cases women are becoming more prevalent at the ballot box than their male counterparts. Recent research on social capital is now serving as an explanation for this change.\n\nSocial capital offers a wealth of resources and networks that facilitate political engagement. Since social capital is readily available no matter the type of community, it is able to override more traditional queues for political engagement; e.g.: education, employment, civil skills, etc.\n\nThere are unique ways in which women organize. These differences from men make social capital more personable and impressionable to women audiences thus creating a stronger presence in regards to political engagement. A few examples of these characteristics are:\n\nThe often informal nature of female social capital allows women to politicize apolitical environments without conforming to masculine standards, thus keeping this activity at a low public profile. These differences are hard to recognize within the discourse of political engagement and may explain why social capital has not been considered as a tool for female political engagement until as of late.\n\nA growing body of research has found that the presence of social capital through social networks and communities has a protective quality on health. Social capital affects health risk behavior in the sense that individuals who are embedded in a network or community rich in support, social trust, information, and norms, have resources that help achieve health goals. For example, a person who is sick with cancer may receive information, money, or moral support he or she needs to endure treatment and recover. Social capital also encourages social trust and membership. These factors can discourage individuals from engaging in risky health behaviors such as smoking and binge drinking. Furthermore, neighbourhood social capital may also aid in buffering health inequities amongst children and adolescents.\n\nInversely, a lack of social capital can impair health. For example, results from a survey given to 13- to 18-year-old students in Sweden showed that low social capital and low social trust are associated with higher rates of psychosomatic symptoms, musculoskeletal pain, and depression. Additionally, negative social capital can detract from health. Although there are only a few studies that assess social capital in criminalized populations, there is information that suggests that social capital does have a negative effect in broken communities. Deviant behavior is encouraged by deviant peers via favorable definitions and learning opportunities provided by network-based norms. However, in these same communities, an adjustment of norms (i.e. deviant peers being replaced by positive role models) can pose a positive effect.\n\nSimilar to watching the news and keeping abreast of current events, the use of the Internet can relate to an individual's level of social capital. In one study, informational uses of the Internet correlated positively with an individual's production of social capital, and social-recreational uses were negatively correlated (higher levels of these uses correlated with lower levels of social capital). An example supporting the former argument is the contribution of Peter Maranci's blog (Charlie on the Commuter Line) to address the train problems in Massachusetts. He created it after an incident where a lady passed out during a train ride due to the congestion in the train and help was delayed because of the congestion in the train and the inefficiency of the train conductor. His blog exposed the poor conditions of train stations, overcrowding train rides and inefficiency of the train conductor which eventually influenced changes within the transit system. Another perspective holds that the rapid growth of social networking sites such as Facebook and Myspace suggests that individuals are creating a virtual-network consisting of both bonding and bridging social capital. Unlike face to face interaction, people can instantly connect with others in a targeted fashion by placing specific parameters with internet use. This means that individuals can selectively connect with others based on ascertained interests, and backgrounds. Facebook is currently the most popular social networking site and touts many advantages to its users including serving as a \"social lubricant\" for individuals who otherwise have difficulties forming and maintaining both strong and weak ties with others.\n\nThis argument continues, although the preponderance of evidence shows a positive association between social capital and the internet. Critics of virtual communities believe that the Internet replaces our strong bonds with online \"weak-ties\" or with socially empty interactions with the technology itself. Others fear that the Internet can create a world of \"narcissism of similarity,\" where sociability is reduced to interactions between those that are similar in terms of ideology, race, or gender. A few articles suggest that technologically based interactions has a negative relationship with social capital by displacing time spent engaging in geographical/ in-person social activities. However, the consensus of research shows that the more time people spend online the more in-person contact they have, thus positively enhancing social capital.\n\nRecent research, conducted in 2006, also shows that Internet users often have wider networks than those who uses internet irregularly or not at all. When not considering family and work contacts, Internet users actually tend to have contact with a higher number of friends and relatives. This is supported by another study that shows that internet users and non-internet users do feel equally close to the same number of people; also the internet users maintain relationships with 20% more people that they \"feel somewhat close\" to.\n\nOther research shows that younger people use the Internet as a supplemental medium for communication, rather than letting the Internet communication replace face-to-face contact. This supports the view that Internet communication does not hinder development of social capital and does not make people feel lonelier than before.\n\nEllison, Steinfield & Lampe (2007) suggest social capital exercised online is a result of relationships formed offline; whereby, bridging capital is enabled through a \"maintenance\" of relationships. Among respondents of this study, social capital built exclusively online creates weaker ties. A distinction of social bonding is offered by Ellison et al., 2007, suggesting bonds, or strong ties, are possible through social media, but less likely.\n\nColeman and Hoffer collected quantitative data of 28,000 students in total 1,015 public, Catholic and other private high schools in America from the 7 years' period from 1980 to 1987. It was found from this longitudinal research that social capital in students' families and communities attributed to the much lower dropout rates in Catholic schools compared with the higher rates in public.\n\nTeachman et al. further develop the family structure indicator suggested by Coleman. They criticise Coleman, who used only the number of parents present in the family, neglected the unseen effect of more discrete dimensions such as stepparents' and different types of single-parent families. They take into account of a detailed counting of family structure, not only with two biological parents or stepparent families, but also with types of single-parent families with each other (mother-only, father-only, never-married, and other). They also contribute to the literature by measuring parent-child interaction by the indicators of how often parents and children discuss school-related activities.\n\nMorgan and Sorensen directly challenge Coleman for his lacking of an explicit mechanism to explain why Catholic schools students perform better than public school students on standardised tests of achievement. Researching students in Catholic schools and public schools again, they propose two comparable models of social capital effect on mathematic learning. One is on Catholic schools as norm-enforcing schools whereas another is on public schools as horizon-expanding schools. It is found that while social capital can bring about positive effect of maintaining an encompassing functional community in norm-enforcing schools, it also brings about the negative consequence of excessive monitoring. Creativity and exceptional achievement would be repressed as a result. Whereas in horizon expanding school, social closure is found to be negative for student's mathematic achievement. These schools explore a different type of social capital, such as information about opportunities in the extended social networks of parents and other adults. The consequence is that more learning is fostered than norm-enforcing Catholic school students. In sum, Morgan and Sorensen's (1999) study implies that social capital is contextualised, one kind of social capital may be positive in this setting but is not necessarily still positive in another setting.\n\nIn the setting of education through Kilpatrick et al., (2010) state, '... social capital is a useful lens for analysing lifelong learning and its relationship to community development'. Social capital is particularly important in terms of education. Also the importance of education with '...schools being designed to create \"functioning community\"- forging tighter links between parents and the school' (Coleman & Hoffer, 1987) linking that without this interaction, the social capital in this area is disadvantaged and demonstrates that social capital plays a major role in education.\n\nWithout social capital in the area of education, teachers and parents that play a responsibility in a students learning, the significant impacts on their child's academic learning can rely on these factors. With focus on parents contributing to their child's academic progress as well as being influenced by social capital in education. Without the contribution by the parent in their child's education, gives parents less opportunity and participation in the student's life. As Tedin et al. (2010) state '...one of the most important factors in promoting student success is the active involvement of parents in a child's education.\" With parents also involved in activities and meetings the school conducts, the more involved parents are with other parents and the staff members. Thus parent involvement contributes to social capital with becoming more involved in the school community and participating makes the school a sustainable and easy to run community.\n\nIn their journal article \"Beyond social capital: Spatial dynamics of collective efficacy for children\", Sampson et al. stress the normative or goal-directed dimension of social capital. They claim, \"resources or networks alone (e.g. voluntary associations, friendship ties, organisational density) are neutral--- they may or may not be effective mechanism for achieving intended effect\"\n\nMarjoribanks and Kwok conducted a survey in Hong Kong secondary schools with 387 fourteen-year-old students with an aim to analyse female and male adolescents differential educational achievement by using social capital as the main analytic tool. In that research, social capital is approved of its different effects upon different genders. In his thesis \"New Arrival Students in Hong Kong: Adaptation and School Performance\", Hei Hang Hayes Tang argues that adaptation is a process of activation and accumulation of (cultural and social) capitals. The research findings show that supportive networks is the key determinant differentiating the divergent adaptation pathways. Supportive networks, as a form of social capital, is necessary for activating the cultural capital the newly arrived students possessed. The amount of accumulated capital is also relevant to further advancement in the ongoing adaptation process.\n\nMin Zhou and Carl L. Bankston in their study of a Vietnamese community in New Orleans find that preserving traditional ethnic values enable immigrants to integrate socially and to maintain solidarity in an ethnic community. Ethnic solidarity is especially important in the context where immigrants just arrive in the host society. In her article \"Social Capital in Chinatown\", Zhou examines how the process of adaptation of young Chinese Americans is affected by tangible forms of social relations between the community, immigrant families, and the younger generations. Chinatown serves as the basis of social capital that facilitates the accommodation of immigrant children in the expected directions. Ethnic support provides impetus to academic success. Furthermore, maintenance of literacy in native language also provides a form of social capital that contributes positively to academic achievement. Stanton-Salazar and Dornbusch found that bilingual students were more likely to obtain the necessary forms of institutional support to advance their school performance and their life chances.\n\nPutnam (2000) mentions in his book \"Bowling Alone\", \"Child development is powerfully shaped by social capital\" and continues \"presence of social capital has been linked to various positive outcomes, particularly in education\". According to his book, these positive outcomes are the result of parents' social capital in a community. In states where there is a high social capital, there is also a high education performance. The similarity of these states is that parents were more associated with their children's education. Teachers have reported that when the parents participate more in their children's education and school life, it lowers levels of misbehavior, such as bringing weapons to school, engaging in physical violence, unauthorized absence, and being generally apathetic about education. Borrowing Coleman's quotation from Putnam's book, Coleman once mentioned we cannot understate \"the importance of the embeddedness of young persons in the enclaves of adults most proximate to them, first and most prominent the family and second, a surrounding community of adults\".\n\nIn order to understand social capital as a subject in geography, one must look at it in a sense of space, place, and territory. In its relationship, the tenets of geography relate to the ideas of social capital in the family, community, and in the use of social networks. The biggest advocate for seeing social capital as a geographical subject was American economist and political scientist Robert Putnam. His main argument for classifying social capital as a geographical concept is that the relationships of people is shaped and molded by the areas in which they live.\n\nPutnam (1993) argued that the lack of social capital in the South of Italy was more the product of a peculiar historical and geographical development than the consequence of a set of contemporary socio-economic conditions. This idea has sparked a lengthy debate and received fierce criticism (Ferragina, 2010; Ferragina 2012: 3). There are many areas in which social capital can be defined by the theories and practices. Anthony Giddens developed a theory in 1984 in which he relates social structures and the actions that they produce. In his studies, he does not look at the individual participants of these structures, but how the structures and the social connections that stem from them are diffused over space. If this is the case, the continuous change in social structures could bring about a change in social capital, which can cause changes in community atmosphere. If an area is plagued by social organizations whose goals are to revolt against social norms, such as gangs, it can cause a negative social capital for the area causing those who disagreed with said organizations to relocate thus taking their positive social capital to a different space than the negative.\n\nAnother area where social capital can be seen as an area of study in geography is through the analysis of participation in volunteerism and its support of different governments. One area to look into with this is through those who participate in social organizations. People that participate are of different races, ages, and economic status. With these in mind, variances of the space in which these different demographics may vary, causing a difference in involvement among areas. Secondly, there are different social programs for different areas based on economic situation. A governmental organization would not place a welfare center in a wealthier neighborhood where it would have very limited support to the community, as it is not needed. Thirdly, social capital can be affected by the participation of individuals of a certain area based on the type of institutions that are placed there. Mohan supports this with the argument of J. Fox in his paper \"Decentralization and Rural Development in Mexico\", which states \"structures of local governance in turn influence the capacity of grassroots communities to influence social investments.\" With this theory, if the involvement of a government in specific areas raises the involvement of individuals in social organizations and/or communities, this will in turn raise the social capital for that area. Since every area is different, the government takes that into consideration and will provide different areas with different institutions to fit their needs thus there will be different changes in social capital in different areas.\n\nIn the context of leisure studies, social capital is seen as the consequence of investment in and cultivation of social relationships allowing an individual access to resources that would otherwise be unavailable to him or her. The concept of social capital in relation to leisure is grounded in a perspective that emphasizes the interconnectedness rather than the separateness of human activity and human goals. There is a significant connection between leisure and democratic social capital. Specific forms of leisure activity contribute to the development of the social capital central to democracy and democratic citizenship. The more an individual participates in social activities, the more autonomy the individual experiences, which will help her or his individual abilities and skills to develop. The greater the accumulation of social capital a person experiences, may transfer to other leisure activities as well as personal social roles, relationships and in other roles within a social structure.\n\nIt has been noted that social capital may not always be used for positive ends. While pursuing doctoral studies, Lester was the first to create figures and equate negative social capital with negative returns. Before Lester, negative social capital was a societal ill, not a business one. An example of the complexities of the effects of negative social capital is violence or criminal gang activity that is encouraged through the strengthening of intra-group relationships (bonding social capital). The negative consequences of social capital are more often associated with \"bonding\" vis-à-vis \"bridging\".\n\nWithout \"bridging\" social capital, \"bonding\" groups can become isolated and disenfranchised from the rest of society and, most importantly, from groups with which bridging must occur in order to denote an \"increase\" in social capital. Bonding social capital is a necessary antecedent for the development of the more powerful form of bridging social capital. Bonding and bridging social capital can work together productively if in balance, or they may work against each other. As social capital bonds and stronger homogeneous groups form, the likelihood of bridging social capital is attenuated. Bonding social capital can also perpetuate sentiments of a certain group, allowing for the bonding of certain individuals together upon a common radical ideal. The strengthening of insular ties can lead to a variety of effects such as ethnic marginalization or social isolation. In extreme cases ethnic cleansing may result if the relationship between different groups is so strongly negative. In mild cases, it just isolates certain communities such as suburbs of cities because of the bonding social capital and the fact that people in these communities spend so much time away from places that build bridging social capital.\n\nSocial capital (in the institutional Robert Putnam sense) may also lead to bad outcomes if the political institution and democracy in a specific country is not strong enough and is therefore overpowered by the social capital groups. \"Civil society and the collapse of the Weimar Republic\" suggests that \"it was weak political institutionalization rather than a weak civil society that was Germany's main problem during the Wihelmine and Weimar eras.\" Because the political institutions were so weak people looked to other outlets. \"Germans threw themselves into their clubs, voluntary associations, and professional organizations out of frustration with the failures of the national government and political parties, thereby helping to undermine the Weimar Republic and facilitate Hitler's rise to power.\" In this article about the fall of the Weimar Republic, the author makes the claim that Hitler rose to power so quickly because he was able to mobilize the groups towards one common goal. Even though German society was, at the time, a \"joining\" society these groups were fragmented and their members did not use the skills they learned in their club associations to better their society. They were very introverted in the Weimar Republic. Hitler was able to capitalize on this by uniting these highly bonded groups under the common cause of bringing Germany to the top of world politics. The former world order had been destroyed during World War I, and Hitler believed that Germany had the right and the will to become a dominant global power. Additionally, in his essay \"A Criticism of Putnam's Theory of Social Capital\", Michael Shindler expands upon Berman's argument that Wiemar social clubs and similar associations in countries that did not develop democracy, were organized in such a way that they fostered a \"we\" instead of an \"I\" mentality among their members, by arguing that groups which possess cultures that stress solidarity over individuality, even ones that are \"horizontally\" structured and which were also common to pre-soviet eastern europe, will not engender democracy if they are politically aligned with non-democratic ideologies.\n\nLater work by Putnam also suggests that social capital, and the associated growth of public trust are inhibited by immigration and rising racial diversity in communities. Putnam's study regarding the issue argued that in American areas with a lack of homogeneity, some individuals neither participated in bonding nor bridging social capital. In societies where immigration is high (USA) or where ethnic heterogeneity is high (Eastern Europe), it was found that citizens lacked in both kinds of social capital and were overall far less trusting of others than members of homogenous communities were found to be. Lack of homogeneity led to people withdrawing from even their closest groups and relationships, creating an atomized society as opposed to a cohesive community. These findings challenge previous beliefs that exposure to diversity strengthens social capital, either through bridging social gaps between ethnicities or strengthening in-group bonds. It is very important for policy makers to monitor the level of perceived socio-economic threat from immigrants because negative attitudes towards immigrants make integration difficult and affect social capital.\n\nJames Coleman has indicated that social capital eventually led to the creation of human capital for the future generation. Human capital, a private resource, could be accessed through what the previous generation accumulated through social capital. Field suggested that such a process could lead to the very inequality social capital attempts to resolve. While Coleman viewed social capital as a relatively neutral resource, he did not deny the class reproduction that could result from accessing such capital, given that individuals worked toward their own benefit. Even though Coleman never truly addresses Bourdieu in his discussion, this coincides with Bourdieu's argument set forth in \"Reproduction in Education, Society and Culture\". Bourdieu and Coleman were fundamentally different at the theoretical level (as Bourdieu believed the actions of individuals were rarely ever conscious, but more so only a result of their habitus (see below) being enacted within a particular field, but this realization by both seems to undeniably connect their understanding of the more latent aspects of social capital.\n\nAccording to Bourdieu, habitus refers to the social context within which a social actor is socialized. Thus, it is the social platform, itself, that equips one with the social reality they become accustomed to. Out of habitus comes field, the manner in which one integrates and displays his or her habitus. To this end, it is the social exchange and interaction between two or more social actors. To illustrate this, we assume that an individual wishes to better his place in society. He therefore accumulates social capital by involving himself in a social network, adhering to the norms of that group, allowing him to later access the resources (e.g. social relationships) gained over time. If, in the case of education, he uses these resources to better his educational outcomes, thereby enabling him to become socially mobile, he effectively has worked to reiterate and reproduce the stratification of society, as social capital has done little to alleviate the system as a whole. This may be one negative aspect of social capital, but seems to be an inevitable one in and of itself, as are all forms of capital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360876", "title": "Supremacism", "text": "Supremacism\n\nSupremacism is an ideology which holds that a particular class of people is superior to others, and that it should dominate, control, and subjugate others, or is entitled to do so. The supposed \"superior\" class of people can be an age, race (classification of human beings) species, ethnicity, religion, gender (social construct), sexuality, language, social class, ideology, nation, or culture, or any other part of a population.\n\nSome feminist theorists have argued that in patriarchy, a standard of male supremacism is enforced through a variety of cultural, political, and interpersonal strategies. Since the 19th century there have been a number of feminist movements opposed to male supremacism, usually aimed at achieving equal legal rights and protections for women in all cultural, political and interpersonal relations.\n\nCenturies of European colonialism in the Americas, Africa, Australia, Oceania, and Asia were justified by white supremacist attitudes. During the 19th century, the phrase \"The White Man's Burden\", referring to the thought that whites have the obligation to make the societies of the other peoples more 'civilized', was widely used to justify imperialist policy as a noble enterprise. Thomas Carlyle, known for his historical account of the French Revolution, \",\" which inspired Charles Dickens' novel \"A Tale of Two Cities,\" argued that European supremacist policies were justified on the grounds they provided the greatest benefit to \"inferior\" native peoples. However, even at the time of its publication in 1849, Carlyle's main work on the subject, the \"Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question,\" was received poorly by his contemporaries.\n\nBefore the American Civil War, the Confederate States of America was founded with a constitution that contained clauses restricting the government's ability to limit or interfere with the institution of \"negro\" slavery. In the Cornerstone Speech, Confederate vice president Alexander Stephens declared that one of the Confederacy's foundational tenets was white supremacy over black slaves. Following the war, a secret society, the Ku Klux Klan, was formed in the South. Its purpose was to \"restore\" white supremacy after the Reconstruction period, even though there still was white, Protestant supremacy in the United States, at the time. The group preached supremacy over all other races, as well as supremacy over Jews, Catholics, and other minorities.\n\nCornel West, an African-American philosopher, writes that Black supremacist religious views arose in America as part of black Muslim theology in response to white supremacism.\n\nDuring the early 20th century until the end of World War II, known as the pre-1945 \"Shōwa\" era, in Japan, the propaganda of the Empire of Japan used the old concept of \"hakko ichiu\" to support the idea that the Yamato were a superior race, destined to rule Asia and the Pacific. Many documents, such as \"Kokutai no Hongi,\" \"Shinmin no Michi,\" and \"An Investigation of Global Policy with the Yamato Race as Nucleus,\" discussed this concept of Japanese supremacy.\n\nIn Africa, black Southern Sudanese allege that they are subjected to a racist form of Arab supremacy, which they equate with the historic white supremacism of South African apartheid. The alleged genocide in the ongoing War in Darfur has been described as an example of Arab racism.\n\nIn Asia, ancient Indians considered all foreigners as barbarians. The Muslim scholar Al-Biruni wrote that the Indians called foreigners impure. A few centuries later, Dubois observes that \"Hindus look upon Europeans as barbarians totally ignorant of all principles of honour and good breeding... In the eyes of a Hindu, a Pariah (outcaste) and a European are on the same level.\" The Chinese viewed the Europeans as repulsive, ghost-like creatures, and even devils. The Chinese writers also referred to the Europeans as barbarians.\n\nFrom 1933–1945, Nazi Germany, under the rule of Adolf Hitler, promoted the idea of a superior, Aryan \"Herrenvolk\", or master race. The state's propaganda advocated the belief that Germanic peoples, whom they called \"Aryans\", were a master race or a \"Herrenvolk\" that was superior to the Jews, Slavs, and Romani people, so-called \"gypsies\". Arthur de Gobineau, a French racial theorist and aristocrat, blamed the fall of the ancien régime in France on racial intermixing, which he argued had destroyed the purity of the Nordic race. Gobineau's theories, which attracted a strong following in Germany, emphasized the existence of an irreconcilable polarity between Aryan and Jewish cultures.\n\nSome academics and writers claim that Christian supremacism was a motivation for the Crusades in the Holy Land, as well as for crusades against Muslims and pagans throughout Europe. The Atlantic slave trade has been attributed in part to Christian supremacism as well. The Ku Klux Klan has been described as a white supremacist Christian organization, as are many other white supremacist groups, such as the Posse Comitatus and the Christian Identity and Positive Christianity movements.\n\nSome academics and writers also allege Muslim or Islamic supremacism. Others claim that the Qur'an and other Islamic documents always speak of tolerant, protective beliefs, which have been misused, misquoted, and misinterpreted by both Islamic extremists and Islamophobes. Examples of how supremacists have exploited the name of Islam include the Muslim participation in the African slave trade, the early 20th century pan-Islamism promoted by Abdul Hamid II, the jizya and rules of marriage in Muslim countries being imposed on non-Muslims, the majority Muslim interpretations of the rules of pluralism in Malaysia, and \"defensive\" supremacism practiced by some Muslim immigrants in Europe. Some writers posit that Islam, unlike other religions, positively commands its adherents to impose its religious law on all peoples, believers and unbelievers alike, whenever possible and by any means necessary.\n\nSome academics and writers allege Jewish supremacism, often in relation to Israel and Zionism. Author Minna Rozen writes that 17th century Jews who lived in Jerusalem were supremacist in their views that they were superior over other Jews. Ilan Pappé, an Israeli historian, writes that the First Aliyah to Israel \"established a society based on Jewish supremacy.\" Joseph Massad, a Professor of Arab Studies, holds that \"Jewish supremacism\" always has been a \"dominating principle\" in religious and secular Zionism. The Anti-Defamation League and Southern Poverty Law Center condemn writings about \"Jewish Supremacism\" by Holocaust-denier, former Grand Wizard of the KKK, and conspiracy theorist, David Duke, as antisemitic – in particular, his book: \".\" Kevin B. MacDonald, known for his theory of Judaism as a \"group evolutionary strategy\", has also been accused by the ADL and his own university psychology department of being \"antisemitic\" and white supremacist in his writings on the subject. However, prominent rabbis have, in fact, explicitly made claims regarding purported Jewish superiority.\n"}
{"id": "34305190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34305190", "title": "Tea Peter", "text": "Tea Peter\n\n\"Tea Peter\" is the twenty-first episode of the tenth season of the animated television series \"Family Guy\". The episode originally aired on Fox in the United States on May 13, 2012. In this episode, Peter joins the Tea Party movement and, along with his father-in-law, Carter, successfully shuts down the government. However, things do not turn out as expected, and Peter has to find out a way to make things the way they were.\n\nThe episode was written by Patrick Meighan and directed by Pete Michels. It received mixed reviews from critics for its storyline and cultural references. It was viewed by 4.94 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings. The episode features guest performances from Kirker Butler, Chris Cox, Ralph Garman, Ari Graynor, Alexa Ray Joel, Christine Lakin, Tara Strong, Nicole Sullivan, Julius Sharpe, and Fred Tatasciore, along with several guest performers for the series.\n\nAt the grand re-opening of Goldman's Pharmacy, Peter finds a \"come in, we're open\" sign on the front door, and decides to buy one. After people mistake the sign as a business, Peter decides to go into business for himself. The business, however, becomes short-lived when Joe is forced to shut him down for having an unlicensed business. After fighting City Hall and losing, Peter finds a sympathetic ear in Quagmire when they see a news report about the Tea Party and decide to join, much to the dismay of Brian, who informs him that the Tea Party is really a tool of big business. Joe tags along with Peter and Quagmire to a rally where Peter's father-in-law, Carter, is posing as an everyday worker named \"Joe Workingman\". Following the rally, Peter stops inside to use the restroom, where he finds Carter. Although he manages to persuade Peter that the two are separate, Carter enlists Peter to help get rid of the government. Despite the family's resistance, Peter makes calls for Carter on behalf of the Tea Party and successfully campaigns to have Mayor West shut down Quahog's government. The citizens of Quahog celebrate their new freedom from government, getting away with many things. From Quagmire marrying and impregnating a giraffe and flatly telling that the giraffe's son is not his, to Chris overdosing on Mescaline and going to Las Vegas. However, Brian makes the Griffins aware of Carter's pollution, and as time goes on things get worse, up to the point where basic services (such as electricity and plumbing) are completely inaccessible and the citizens start rioting in the streets. After visiting Carter to help him and getting turned down by him, Peter calls the town together. He delivers a heartfelt speech about the government, although he manages to present it as an \"entirely new thing\". After convincing the citizens to successfully reform the government, Peter looks on the Internet to see what people are saying about him, only to be disappointed by the result.\n\n\"Tea Peter\" was written by Patrick Meighan and directed by Pete Michels. Series regular Peter Shin serves as a supervising animation producer, with James Purdum and Dominic Bianchi as supervising directors, and Andrew Goldberg and Alex Carter as executive story editors.\n\nIn addition to the regular cast, ex-\"Family Guy\" writer Kirker Butler, voice actor Chris Cox, voice actor Ralph Garman, actress Ari Graynor, actress Alexa Ray Joel, voice actress Christine Lakin, voice actress Tara Strong, voice actress Nicole Sullivan, writer Julius Sharpe, and voice actor Fred Tatasciore guest starred in the episode. Recurring guest voice actors Johnny Brennan, writer Steve Callaghan, writer Mark Hentemann, writer Patrick Meighan, writer Danny Smith, writer Alec Sulkin, and writer John Viener made minor performances throughout the episode. Recurring guest cast members Adam West and Patrick Warburton also appeared in the episode, portraying the characters of Mayor West and Joe Swanson, respectively.\n\nSome cultural references were used in this episode. Peter joins the Tea Party, which is a reference to the Tea Party movement. At the Tea Party rally, Peter can be heard yelling \"We are Marshall!\", which is a reference to the film of the same name.\n\nIn its original broadcast on May 13, 2012, \"Tea Peter\" was watched by 4.94 million viewers, according to Nielsen ratings, despite airing simultaneously with \"Celebrity Apprentice\" on NBC and the series finale of \"Desperate Housewives\" on ABC. It also acquired a 2.4/6 rating in the 18–49 demographic group, losing to \"Desperate Housewives\" but beating \"Celebrity Apprentice\". The ratings fell from the previous episode, \"Leggo My Meg-O\".\n\nThe episode received mixed reviews. Kevin McFarland of \"The A.V. Club\" gave a C+ rating. He stated that \"the thin plot arc didn't do much for [him]\", however praising the \"cutaways which made [him] laugh\". He also noted that \"[the episode] seems to believe that every follower of the Tea Party movement would propose exactly the same type of government in place now once mass lawlessness overtook the land by following their proposed ideas\". He continued, \"I didn't buy that final step, but it was the only bit of irony in the entire plot, and I appreciate whenever \"Family Guy\" goes for satire with a bit of meaning instead of shouting distilled vitriol for its perceived opponents from a soapbox.\" Carter Doston of TV Fanatic gave a 2.7/5 rating. He criticized the lack of comedy used, \"Seth MacFarlane is a noted liberal, and the politics of the show follow the same track, so an episode mocking the rise of this provocative conservative political movement was inevitable. The problem is that the show forgot to make it funny.\" He also said \"this episode did nothing more than state the obvious, and in a way that was neither profound nor at the very least entertaining.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44437748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44437748", "title": "Tehran - Haifa - Tel Aviv", "text": "Tehran - Haifa - Tel Aviv\n\nTehran – Haifa – Tel Aviv, or TeHTel, is a project that connects Iranian and Israeli citizens, and creates new bridges between the cultures.\n\nThe project, launched in March 2012, operates at the Ezri Center for Iran and Persian Gulf Studies at the University of Haifa. TeHTel includes a Persian website, and profiles on international and Persian-language social networks. The project's website received millions of pageviews, its articles are quoted and copied by major Iranian media channels and websites, and Iranian users posted tens of thousands of comments in Persian in response to content published by the project. \n\nThe project's staff keep in daily contact with Iranian citizens.\n\nTeHTel created a network of hundreds of Israeli content partners, including major Israeli media organizations and independent bloggers and photographers. The project's editors pick different articles originally published in Hebrew by the content partners, translate the selected articles to Persian, and publish the translated content in Persian-language websites and social networks. \n\nThe translated content serves as a basis for dialogue between Israeli and Iranian citizens, as well as internal Iranian discussions. The project publishes articles in a variety of topics, from everyday life in Israel, through culture and politics, to economics and Middle Eastern issues. According to the University of Haifa, the project is careful to avoid propaganda and public relations articles. Thus, the project deals with sensitive issues, such as tensions in Israel between Sephardi and Ashkenazi Jews, and the cost of living in Israel.\n\nIsraeli articles published by TeHTel are frequently copied and quoted by online Iranian media, such as Raja News and YJC, a website affiliated with the conservative Revolutionary Guard Corps.\nThe project's staff regularly communicates with thousands of Iranian citizens. Users speak about their lives and political ideas, and sometimes share intimate details about themselves.\n\nFrom time to time, the project creates joint Iranian-Israeli activities. \n\nThe project also promotes and markets content created by Iranians to Israeli audiences. The project publishes Hebrew translations of articles by Iranian bloggers, including photographic journeys in Iran. In addition, the project publishes Iranian content in Israeli media venues. Through the project, Iranians published articles in prominent Israeli newspapers. In another case, the project's staff translated to Hebrew a video clip shot in Tehran by a local Iranian studio, and helped the clip reach Israeli mainstream audiences.\n\nA month after TeHTels launched, the Iranian senior official Mohsen Rezaee denounced the project. Rezaee is the former commander of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard corps, a candidate in the Iranian presidential elections, and the current secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council. \nRezaee claimed that the project is \"a new espionage tool of the Israeli regime,\" adding that \"although the project's editors claim that the site is designed to create friendships between the two peoples, it seems that the main purpose is to create a new espionage and intelligence gathering technique against Iran\". Following Rezaee, a number of sites associated with high ranking Iranian government officials denounced the project. \nIn response to Rezaee, the project's staff published an open letter, calling for dialogue.\n\nA month after the incident, a group named \"the cyber fighters and officers of Kerman Province\", a group of Iranian hackers affiliated with conservative elements, published a harsh condemnation of the project. In the same month, the project was attacked by Iranian hackers.\n\n"}
{"id": "39587781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39587781", "title": "Timeline of the 2016 United States presidential election", "text": "Timeline of the 2016 United States presidential election\n\nThe following is a timeline of major events leading up to, during, and after the United States presidential election of 2016. The election was the 58th quadrennial and most recent United States presidential election, held on November 8, 2016. The presidential primaries and caucuses were held between February 1 and June 14, 2016, staggered among the 50 states, Washington, D.C., and U.S. territories. The U.S. Congress certified the electoral result on January 6, 2017, and the new President and Vice President were inaugurated on January 20, 2017.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nElectoral methods\n\nTwo states (Maine and Nebraska) allow for their electoral votes to be split between candidates. The winner within each congressional district gets one electoral vote for the district. The winner of the statewide vote gets two additional electoral votes.\nResults are from the Associated Press.\n\nCandidate announcement and, if applicable, withdrawal dates are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29651962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29651962", "title": "Unit Party", "text": "Unit Party\n\nA Unit party is a union of two parties such as the National Movement Party and the Progressive Learning Party. Unit parties are established by big groups which are mostly in power before 1992. The leaders of the party are Shir Bazgar and Abdul Haq Holomi. The party's ideology and goals are Islamic. The party is supported and funded by large groups of Afghans residing in America, Europe, and Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "42067666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42067666", "title": "Why Have I Taken Up the Struggle Against Bolshevism", "text": "Why Have I Taken Up the Struggle Against Bolshevism\n\n\"Why Have I Taken Up the Struggle Against Bolshevism\" () is a two-page open letter by the Russian lieutenant general and the commander of the Russian Liberation Army Andrey Vlasov. After the twenty-three years' service in the Soviet military, Vlasov changed the allegiance during World War II to collaborate with Nazi Germany. According to Robert Service, Vlasov was outraged when Joseph Stalin denied him permission to retreat in time from an unavoidable encirclement of the 2nd Shock Army. In June 1942 Vlasov refused to be airlifted for evacuation to the rear and chose to stay with his men. Having been captured by the Germans in the same month, Vlasov published his open letter in the newspaper \"Zarya\" on March 3, 1943. For his speeches about future independent Russia Vlasov was placed by Germans under house arrest.\n\nVlasov was drafted into the Red Army in 1919. Having attended an infantry tactics course, he became a battalion commander. In 1930 Vlasov became a tactics instructor. Several years later Vlasov was entrusted with command of the 11th Infantry Regiment, that shortly afterwards was officially recognized as the best in the Kiev Military District. In 1939 Vlasov became the chief military adviser to Chiang Kai-shek, who awarded Vlasov the Golden Order of the Dragon. Upon his return to the Soviet Union, Vlasov was appointed the commander of the 99th Infantry Division, which he retrained and reformed, bringing it out of disarray. For this work Vlasov received the Order of Lenin and a gold watch.\n\nDuring World War II, Vlasov failed to defend Kiev, but successfully recaptured Solnechnogorsk and Volokolamsk from Germans. In that period, American journalist Larry LeSueur, who interviewed Vlasov, and the French journalist Ève Curie both mentioned Vlasov's popularity among soldiers. \nVlasov begins his letter with the commitment to \"give an honest answer\" to the question, why he \"is stepping up against Bolshevism\". Vlasov explains, that he fought in the ranks of the Soviet army because he believed that \"the revolution would give the Russian people land, freedom and happiness\", but he \"realized that the victory of the Bolsheviks had brought the Russian people none of the things it had fought for during the Civil War years\". Criticizing Stalin, Vlasov expresses his opposition to collectivization, political commissars and the purge of the Soviet army command in the 1930s. In Vlasov's opinion, \"Bolshevism has fenced off the Russian people from Europe by an impenetrable wall\". As the commander of the defeated 2nd Shock Army, Vlasov wrote that \"perhaps nowhere else did the Stalin's disregard for the life of the Russian people manifest itself as much, as in the practice of the 2nd Shock Army\". According to Vlasov, \"the soldiers and commanders received 100 or even 50 grams of rusks a day, swelled up from hunger and many became incapable of moving through the swamps to which they had been sent on the direct orders of the high command\". \"With a full sense of responsibility to the motherland, the people and history for the actions\" he commits, Vlasov calls people to fight and \"build a new Russia\". The letter emphasizes several points in bolded font and ends with the belief, that the Russian people \"will find the strength to unite in the time of severe calamities, overthrow the hateful yoke and build a new state in which they will find happiness\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2165652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165652", "title": "William Warder Norton", "text": "William Warder Norton\n\nWilliam Warder Norton (September 17, 1891 – November 7, 1945) was a publisher and co-founder of W. W. Norton & Company.\n\nHe grew up in Columbus, Ohio, moved to New York City and started an import-export business, met and married Margaret Dows Herter, known as Polly or Mary. In 1923, they began publishing lectures delivered at the People's Institute, the adult education division of New York City's Cooper Union. William and Margaret had a daughter, Anne Aston Warder Norton (1928-1977). The Nortons soon expanded their program beyond the Institute, acquiring manuscripts by celebrated academics from America and abroad. This is the beginning of W. W. Norton & Company. Starting in 1942 he was very active with the Council on Books in Wartime. It was that council, which was a consortium of publishers, that agreed to an equitable distribution of paper and binding materials, all these scarce materials that went into the manufacture of books. He died at 54, just four months after V-E Day.\n"}
