{"id": "370257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370257", "title": "Alfred Newton", "text": "Alfred Newton\n\nAlfred Newton FRS HFRSE (11 June 18297 June 1907) was an English zoologist and ornithologist. Newton was Professor of Comparative Anatomy at Cambridge University from 1866 to 1907. Among his numerous publications were a four-volume \"Dictionary of Birds\" (1893–6), entries on ornithology in the Encyclopædia Britannica (9th edition) while also an editor of the journal \"Ibis\" from 1865 to 1870. In 1900 he was awarded the Royal Medal of the Royal Society and the Gold Medal of the Linnaean Society. He founded the British Ornithologists Union.\n\nAlfred Newton was born near Geneva in Switzerland, the fifth son of William Newton of Elveden Hall in Suffolk, MP for ; his mother Elizabeth (1789–1843) was the daughter of Richard Slater Milnes, MP for . The family wealth was founded on sugar plantations in the Caribbean, where Alfred's grandfather Samuel Newton had a plantation in St Kitts, and a property in St Croix. William Newton returned to England in 1813, purchasing the property of Elveden, near Thetford from the Earl of Albermarle. Elveden (pronounced and sometimes spelt 'Eldon') was built in 1770 by Admiral Augustus Keppel. After the Newtons left, Elveden Hall and its estate were bought by Prince Duleep Singh in 1863, and later by the Guinness family (Earl of Iveagh).\n\nIn 1828 the Newton family made a trip to Italy, and on the way back Alfred was born on 11 June 1829 at Les Délices, a chateau near Geneva. He suffered an accident when about five or six, which left him somewhat lame in one leg. He went to school in 1844, attending Mr. Walker's school at Stetchworth near Newmarket. He was kept birds in cages and looked after other animals from a young age.\n\nAs a youth Newton shot game birds – black or red grouse, common pheasant, partridge. Birds became an abiding interest. Those included the great bustard (\"Otis tarda\"), Montagu's harrier (\"Circus pygargus\"), ravens, buzzards (\"Buteo\" sp.), redpolls, wrynecks (\"Jynx\"), which are small woodpeckers that specialise in feeding on ants. \"The vast warrens of the 'Breck', the woods and water-meadows of the valley of the Little Ouse, and the neighbouring Fenland made an ideal training-ground for a naturalist\". This enthusiasm Newton shared with his younger brother Edward: the two carried out bird observation when they were together and corresponded when they were apart.\n\nIn 1846 Newton went to a tutor in Biggleswade for a few months, and in 1848 he entered Magdalene College, Cambridge. He graduated B.A. in 1853. He took a particular interest in zoology and corresponded with many ornithologists of the time. A meeting with John Wolley at Cambridge in 1851 made them lifelong friends. He spent the rest of his life at Magdalene, and never married. A fall later in life, when he was on a trip to Heligoland, further crippled him, and he then walked with the aid of two sticks, instead of one, as formerly. \"From a three-legged, he has become a four-legged man\" commented a friend.\n\nNewton died on 7 June 1907 of heart failure at the Old Lodge in Magdalene. He is buried in the Parish of the Ascension Burial Ground in Cambridge.\n\nIn 1853 he was awarded the Drury Travelling Fellowship of Magdalene College, but he took it up only in 1855, when the grant became available. Between 1855 and 1864 he visited many parts of the world, including Lapland, Iceland, Spitsbergen, the West Indies and North America. In 1858 he made a trip to Iceland with John Wolley with the hope of rediscovering the great auk. Shortly after their return Wolley died, and at the suggestion of P.L. Sclater Newton wrote up Wolley's notes and catalogued his collection in \"Ootheca Wolleyana,\" which was published in four parts from 1864 to 1907. In 1866 he became the first Professor of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy at Cambridge, a position which he retained until his death. He was one of the few British Professors of Zoology of his time in whose appointment Huxley did not have a hand. Both Darwin and Huxley declined to support his application, on the grounds that his interests and publications were too narrowly focussed on ornithology. The procedure was for candidates to \"canvass for votes\" (presumably amongst the MAs of the University). The result of the poll was Newton 110; Dr Drosier 82. Newton was one of the first zoologists to accept and champion the views of Charles Darwin, and his early lecture courses as professor were on evolution and zoogeography.\n\nNewton was a leader in founding the British Ornithologists' Union in 1858, and its quarterly journal, the \"Ibis\" in 1859. He wrote several books including \"Zoology\" (1872) and \"A Dictionary of Birds\" (1893–1896). He contributed memoirs to scientific societies, and edited the \"Ibis\" (1865–1870), the \"Zoological Record\" (1870–1872), and Yarrell's \"British Birds\" (1871–1882). His services to ornithology and zoogeography were recognized by the Royal Society in 1900, when it awarded him the Royal Medal.\n\nNewton spent some time studying the vanishing birds of the Mascarene Islands, from where his brother Sir Edward Newton sent him specimens. These included the dodo on Mauritius and the solitaire on Rodrigues, both already extinct. In 1872 he described what is now known as Newton's parakeet which lived on Rodrigues before going extinct in 1875.\n\nNewton's interest in extinct bird species such as the dodo, great auk and great bustard led him to work towards the protection of birds. He influenced the legislation of the Sea Birds Preservation Act of 1869. Newton was a prominent supporter and member of the Society for the Protection of Birds (later, 1903, the RSPB) from its inception in 1889, and carried on a long campaign to influence women against the fashion of adorning their hats with the flight feathers of raptors and other fine birds. His letters to \"The Times\" and addresses to the British Association for the Advancement of Science meetings on this subject were regularly reprinted as pamphlets by the Society. Newton determined that extinction cause by human actions was different from extinction resulting from natural processes including evolution. He made efforts to clarify that his motivations for conservation were scientific and that these were distinct from sentiments influenced by earlier movements against animal cruelty and vivisection.\n\nOne of his most successful works was a series of investigations into the \"Desirability of establishing a 'Close-time' for the preservation of indigenous animals\". These were instigated and published by the British Association between 1872 and 1903, leading towards the present-day legislation concerning the closed seasons for game fish, shell-fish, birds and mammals (Game laws). The basic concept, as is now well known, is to protect animals during their breeding season so as to prevent the stock from being brought close to extinction.\n\nThe Cambridge University Museum of Zoology contains a significant amount of material from Newton, including specimens collected in Madagascar, Polynesia, South America and the Caribbean, eggs, books and correspondence.\n\nNewton's correspondence gives an intimate view of how he encountered the momentous idea of evolution by means of natural selection:\nNot many days after my return home there reached me the part of the \"Journal of the Linnean Society\" which bears on its cover the date 20th August 1858, and contains the papers by Mr Darwin and Mr Wallace, which were communicated to that Society at its special meeting of the first of July preceding... I sat up late that night to read it; and never shall I forget the impression it made upon me. Herein was contained a perfectly simple solution of all the difficulties which had been troubling me for months past... I am free to confess that in my joy I did not then perceive that... dozens of other difficulties lay in the path... but I was convinced a \"vera causa\" [true cause] had been found... and I never doubted for one moment, then nor since, that we had one of the grandest discoveries of the age—a discovery all the more grand because it was so simple.\n\nOnly four days after the publication of the famous 1858 paper, and one day after he read it, Newton started to apply Darwin's and Wallace's idea to various problems in ornithology. Newton did not see evolutionary theory as being in conflict with his religion. He maintained a regular attendance at church and held deeply conservative views. Evolutionary theory was, for him, applicable outside of humans.\n\nThe British Association annual meeting for 1860, held in the University Museum in Oxford, was the location for one of the most important public debates in 19th century biology. Newton was present and left a record of what happened in a letter to his brother Edward. The famous debate between Huxley and Wilberforce took place on Saturday 30 June 1860 and in his letter Newton writes:\nIn the Nat. Hist. Section we had another hot Darwinian debate... After [lengthy preliminaries] Huxley was called upon by Henslow to state his views at greater length, and this brought up the Bp. of Oxford... Referring to what Huxley had said two days before, about after all its not signifying to him whether he was descended from a Gorilla or not, the Bp. chafed him and asked whether he had a preference for the descent being on the father's side or the mother's side? This gave Huxley the opportunity of saying that he would sooner claim kindred with an Ape than with a man like the Bp. who made so ill an use of his wonderful speaking powers to try and burke, by a display of authority, a free discussion on what was, or was not, a matter of truth, and reminded him that on questions of physical science 'authority' had always been bowled out by investigation, as witness astronomy and geology.<br>He then caught hold of the Bp's assertions and showed how contrary they were to facts, and how he knew nothing about what he had been discoursing on. A lot of people afterwards spoke... The feeling of the audience was very much against the Bp.\n\nA letter, dated 25 July 1860, provides an account of the debate.\n\nNewton was also present at the Cambridge meeting of the British Association two years later. Ever since 1857 when Richard Owen presented (to the Linnean Society) his view that man was marked off from all other mammals by possessing features of the brain peculiar to the genus \"Homo\", Huxley had been on his trail. The issue had been debated at the British Association in 1860 and 1861 (Manchester). At the 1862 Cambridge meeting Huxley arranged for his friend William Flower to give a public dissection to show that the same structures were indeed present, not only in apes, but in monkeys also. Flower stood up and said \"I happen to have in my pocket a monkey's brain\" — and produced the object in question! (report in the Times). In a letter to his brother Newton wrote:\nThere was a grand kick-up again between Owen and Huxley, the former struggling against \"facts\" with a devotion worthy of a better cause. The latter now takes it easy, and laughs over it all, but Flower and Rolleston are too savage. No doubt it is very irritating when Owen will not take the slightest notice of all they have done and proved, and Owen does it all in such a happy manner, that he almost carries conviction from those who \"know\" how utterly wrong as to facts he is.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2371817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2371817", "title": "Allsång på Skansen", "text": "Allsång på Skansen\n\nAllsång på Skansen (\"Sing-along at Skansen\") is a Swedish show held at Skansen, Stockholm, every summer on Tuesdays between 8pm and 9pm. The audience is supposed to sing-along with musical guests to well-known Swedish songs. The show started in 1935 on a small scale; about 50 people in the audience. Today about 10,000–25,500 people come to each performance.\n\nSince 3 August 1979 the show has been broadcast by Sveriges Television. Initially the show had about 300,000 viewers. When Lasse Berghagen took over as host, the ratings increased to about 2 million viewers. In 2003, \"Allsång på Skansen\" was the first SVT programme that was broadcast with 5.1 multichannel sound. In 2007, it became one of the first Swedish live programmes broadcast in high-definition television. Although the show is scheduled to run for 90 minutes, only one hour of it is broadcast on SVT1 but viewers can watch the entire show on SVT Play.\n\n\nThe guest who has appeared on the show the most is Robert Gustavsson, who has appeared 13 times.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23935110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23935110", "title": "Audio letter", "text": "Audio letter\n\nAn audio letter is an audio recording sent by postal mail to a recipient. The practice was more common when charges for long-distance telephone services were higher and before the widespread use of the Internet.\n\nDiscovered audio recordings offer a unique perspective into that time period and have often been used to present historical context in modern day radio and television programs.\n\nMedia used in recording audio letters include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46303818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46303818", "title": "BSB cod. icon. 326", "text": "BSB cod. icon. 326\n\nCodex iconographicus monacensis 236 (BSB cod. icon. 326) is an armorial of the coats of arms of the attendants of the imperial diet of 1594 at Regensburg (formerly Regensburg city library, Rat. civ. 252)\nRudolf II in 1594 declared Regensburg would be the sole location where imperial diets were to be held in the future.\n\nThe codex consists of paper folia measuring 22.5⨯16 cm with 48 non-empty pages. It contains a total of 84 coats of arms, mostly the personal or family arms of princes, with some clerical arms and ten city arms.\nThe coats of arms are arranged by the accommodation of the bearers in Regensburg's eight city districts (\"Wachten\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "615354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615354", "title": "Bombe", "text": "Bombe\n\nThe bombe () is an electro-mechanical device used by British cryptologists to help decipher German Enigma-machine-encrypted secret messages during World War II. The US Navy and US Army later produced their own machines to the same functional specification, albeit engineered differently both from each other and from the British Bombe itself.\n\nThe initial design of the bombe was produced in 1939 at the UK Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) at Bletchley Park by Alan Turing, with an important refinement devised in 1940 by Gordon Welchman. The engineering design and construction was the work of Harold Keen of the British Tabulating Machine Company. It was a substantial development from a device that had been designed in 1938 in Poland at the Biuro Szyfrów (Cipher Bureau) by cryptologist Marian Rejewski, and known as the \"cryptologic bomb\" (). The first bombe, code-named \"Victory\", was installed in March 1940 while the second version, \"Agnus Dei\" or \"Agnes\", incorporating Welchman's new design, was working by August 1940. \n\nThe bombe was designed to discover some of the daily settings of the Enigma machines on the various German military networks: specifically, the set of rotors in use and their positions in the machine; the rotor core start positions for the message—the message key—and one of the wirings of the plugboard.\n\nThe Enigma is an electro-mechanical rotor machine used for the encryption and decryption of secret messages. It was developed in Germany in the 1920s. The repeated changes of the electrical pathway from the keyboard to the lampboard implement a polyalphabetic substitution cipher, which turns plaintext into ciphertext and back again. The Enigma's scrambler contains rotors with 26 electrical contacts on each side, whose wiring diverts the current to a different position on the two sides. On depressing a key on the keyboard, an electric current flows through an entry drum at the right-hand end of the scrambler, then through the set of rotors to a reflecting drum (or reflector) which turns it back through the rotors and entry drum, and out to cause one lamp on the lampboard to be illuminated.\n\nAt each key depression, the right-hand or \"fast\" rotor advances one position, which causes the encipherment to change. In addition, at a certain point, the right-hand rotor causes the middle rotor to advance; in a similar way, the middle rotor might cause the left-hand (or \"slow\") rotor to advance. Each rotor causes the \"turnover\" of the rotor to its left after a full rotation. The Enigma operator could rotate the wheels by hand to change the letter of the alphabet showing through a window, to set the start position of the rotors for enciphering a message. This three-letter sequence is the \"message key\". There are 26 × 26 × 26 17,576 possible positions of the set of three rotors, and hence different message keys. By opening the lid of the machine and releasing a compression bar, the set of three rotors on their spindle could be removed from the machine and their sequence (called the \"wheel order\" at Bletchley Park) could be altered. Multiplying 17,576 by the six possible wheel orders gives 105,456 different ways that the scrambler could be set up.\n\nAlthough 105,456 is a large number, it does not guarantee security. A brute-force attack is possible: one could imagine using 100 code clerks who each tried to decode a message using 1000 distinct rotor settings. The Poles developed card catalogs so they could easily find rotor positions; Britain built \"\"EINS\"\" (a common German word) catalogs. Less intensive methods were also possible. If all message traffic for a day used the same rotor starting position, then frequency analysis for each position could recover the polyalphabetic substitutions. If different rotor starting positions were used, then overlapping portions of a message could be found using the index of coincidence. Many major powers (including the Germans) could break Enigma traffic if they knew the rotor wiring. The German military knew the Enigma was weak, stating, \"In particular, it accepted the uncomfortable conclusions of a study by Lieutenant Henno Lucan, second radio officer of the battleship \"Elsass\", that in neither physical nor cryptologic security did the Enigma meet modern requirements.\"\n\nIn 1930, the German army introduced an additional security feature, a plugboard (\"Steckerbrett\" in German; each plug is a \"Stecker\") that further scrambled the letters. The Enigma encryption is a self inverse: it swapped letters in pairs: if A is transformed into R then R is transformed into A. The plugboard maintained the self inverse, but the plugboard transformation, unlike the rotor transformation, does not change during the encryption. This regularity was exploited by Welchman's \"diagonal board\" enhancement to the bombe, which vastly increased its efficiency. With six plug leads in use (leaving 14 letters \"unsteckered\") this gives 100,391,791,500 possible ways of setting up the plugboard.\n\nAn important feature of the machine from a cryptanalyst's point of view, and indeed Enigma's Achilles' heel, was that the reflector in the scrambler meant that a letter was never enciphered as itself. Any putative solution that gave, for any location, the same letter in the proposed plaintext and the ciphertext could therefore be eliminated.\n\nIn the lead up to World War II, the Germans made successive improvements to their military Enigma machines. By January 1939, additional rotors had been introduced so that there was a choice of three from five (i.e. 60 wheel orders) for the army and airforce Enigmas, and three out of eight (336 wheel orders) for the navy machines. In addition, ten leads were used on the plugboard leaving only six letters unsteckered. This meant that the airforce and army Enigmas could be set up 1.5×10 ways. In 1941 the German navy introduced a version of Enigma with rotatable reflector (the M4 or Four-rotor Enigma) for communicating with its U-boats. This could be set up in 1.8×10 different ways.\n\nBy late 1941 a change in German Navy fortunes in the Battle of the Atlantic, combined with intelligence reports, convinced Admiral Karl Dönitz that the Allies could read German Navy coded communications, and a fourth rotor with unknown wiring was added to German Navy Enigmas used for U-boat communications, producing the \"Triton\" system, known at Bletchley Park as \"Shark\". This was coupled with a thinner reflector design to make room for the extra rotor. The Triton was designed in such a way that it remained compatible with three-rotor machines when necessary. One of the extra 'fourth' rotors, the 'beta', was designed so that when it was paired with the thin 'B' reflector and rotor and ring were set to 'A', the pair acted as a standard three-rotor wide 'B' reflector. As before, the unknown wiring would prevent unauthorized reading of messages. Fortunately for the Allies, in December 1941, before the machine went into official service, a submarine accidentally sent a message with the fourth rotor in the wrong position. It then retransmitted the message with the rotor in the correct (three-rotor emulating) position. In February 1942 the change in the number of rotors used became official, and the Allies' ability to read German submarines' messages ceased until a snatch from a captured U-boat revealed not only the four-rotor machine's ability to emulate a three-rotor machine, but also that the fourth rotor did not move during a message. This along with the aforementioned mistake allowed the code breakers to eventually figure out the wiring of both the 'beta' and 'gamma' fourth rotors.\n\nThe first half of 1942 was the \"Second Happy Time\" for the German U-boats, with renewed success in attacking Allied shipping. This was due to the security of the new Enigma, and their ability to read Allied convoy messages sent in Naval Cipher No. 3. Between January and March 1942, German submarines sank 216 ships off the US east coast. In May 1942 the US began using the convoy system and requiring a blackout of coastal cities so that ships would not be silhouetted against their lights, but this yielded only slightly improved security for Allied shipping. The Allies' failure to change the cipher for three months plus the fact that Allied messages never contained any raw Enigma decrypts (or even mentioned that they were decrypting messages), helped convince the Germans that their messages were secure. Conversely, the Allies learned that the Germans had broken the naval cipher almost immediately from Enigma decrypts, but lost many ships due to the delay in changing the cipher.\n\nThe following settings of the Enigma machine must be discovered to decipher German military Enigma messages. Once these are known, all the messages for that network for that day (or pair of days in the case of the German navy) could be decrypted.\n\nInternal settings (that required the lid of the Enigma machine to be opened)\nExternal settings (that could be changed without opening the Enigma machine)\nThe bombe identified possible initial positions of the rotor cores and the \"stecker partner\" of a specified letter for a set of wheel orders. Manual techniques were then used to complete the decryption process. In the words of Gordon Welchman, \"... the task of the bombe was simply to reduce the assumptions of wheel order and scrambler positions that required 'further analysis' to a manageable number\".\n\nThe bombe was an electro-mechanical device that replicated the action of several Enigma machines wired together. A standard German Enigma employed, at any one time, a set of three rotors, each of which could be set in any of 26 positions. The standard British bombe contained 36 Enigma equivalents, each with three drums wired to produce the same scrambling effect as the Enigma rotors. A bombe could run two or three jobs simultaneously.\nEach job would have a menu that had to be run against a number of different wheel orders. If the menu contained 12 or fewer letters, three different wheel orders could be run on one bombe; if more than 12 letters, only two.\n\nIn order to simulate Enigma rotors, each rotor drum of the bombe had two complete sets of contacts, one for input towards the reflector and the other for output from the reflector, so that the reflected signal could pass back through a separate set of contacts. Each drum had 104 wire brushes, which made contact with the plate onto which they were loaded. The brushes and the corresponding set of contacts on the plate were arranged in four concentric circles of 26. The outer pair of circles (input and output) were equivalent to the current in an Enigma passing in one direction through the scrambler, and the inner pair equivalent to the current flowing in the opposite direction.\n\nThe interconnections within the drums between the two sets of input and output contacts were both identical to those of the relevant Enigma rotor. There was permanent wiring between the inner two sets of contacts of the three input/output plates. From there, the circuit continued to a plugboard located on the left-hand end panel, which was wired to imitate an Enigma reflector and then back through the outer pair of contacts. At each end of the \"double-ended Enigma\", there were sockets on the back of the machine, into which 26-way cables could be plugged.\n\nThe bombe drums were arranged with the top one of the three simulating the left-hand rotor of the Enigma scrambler, the middle one the middle rotor, and the bottom one the right-hand rotor. The top drums were all driven in synchrony by an electric motor. For each full rotation of the top drums, the middle drums were incremented by one position, and likewise for the middle and bottom drums, giving the total of 26 × 26 × 26 = 17,576 positions of the 3-rotor Enigma scrambler.\n\nThe drums were colour-coded according to which Enigma rotor they emulated: I Red; II Maroon; III Green; IV Yellow; V Brown; VI Cobalt (Blue); VII Jet (Black); VIII Silver.\n\nAt each position of the rotors, an electric current would or would not flow in each of the 26 wires, and this would be tested in the bombe's comparator unit. For a large number of positions, the test would lead to a logical contradiction, ruling out that setting. If the test did not lead to a contradiction, the machine would stop.\n\nThe operator would record the candidate solution by reading the positions of the indicator drums and the indicator unit on the Bombe's right-hand end panel. The operator then restarted the run. The candidate solutions, \"stops\" as they were called, were processed further to eliminate as many false stops as possible. Typically, there were many false bombe stops before the correct one was found.\n\nThe candidate solutions for the set of wheel orders were subject to extensive further cryptanalytical work. This progressively eliminated the false stops, built up the set of plugboard connections and established the positions of the rotor alphabet rings. Eventually, the result would be tested on a Typex machine that had been modified to replicate an Enigma, to see whether that decryption produced German language.\n\nA bombe run involved a cryptanalyst first obtaining a \"crib\" — a section of plaintext that was thought to correspond to the ciphertext. Finding cribs was not at all straightforward; it required considerable familiarity with German military jargon and the communication habits of the operators. However, the codebreakers were aided by the fact that the Enigma would never encrypt a letter to itself. This helped in testing a possible crib against the ciphertext, as it could rule out a number of cribs and positions, where the same letter occurred in the same position in both the plaintext and the ciphertext. This was termed a \"crash\" at Bletchley Park.\n\nOnce a suitable crib had been decided upon, the cryptanalyst would produce a \"menu\" for wiring up the bombe to test the crib against the ciphertext. The following is a simplified explanation of the process of constructing a menu. Suppose that the crib is ATTACKATDAWN to be tested against a certain stretch of ciphertext, say, WSNPNLKLSTCS. The letters of the crib and the ciphertext were compared to establish pairings between the ciphertext and the crib plaintext. These were then graphed as in the diagram. It should be borne in mind that the relationships are reciprocal so that A in the plaintext associated with W in the ciphertext is the same as W in the plaintext associated with A in the ciphertext. At position 1 of the plaintext-ciphertext comparison, the letter A is associated with W, but A is also associated with P at position 4, K at position 7 and T at position 10. Building up these relationships into such a diagram provided the menu from which the bombe connections and drum start positions would be set up. \nIn the illustration, there are three sequences of letters which form loops (or \"cycles\" or \"closures\"), ATLK, TNS and TAWCN. The more loops in the menu, the more candidate rotor settings the bombe could reject, and hence the fewer false stops.\n\nAlan Turing conducted a very substantial analysis (without any electronic aids) to estimate how many bombe stops would be expected according to the number of letters in the menu and the number of loops. Some of his results are given in the following table. Recent bombe simulations have shown similar results.\n\nThe German military Enigma included a plugboard (\"Steckerbrett\" in German) which swapped letters (indicated here by ) before and after the main scrambler's change (indicated by ). The plugboard connections were known to the cryptanalysts as Stecker values. If there had been no plugboard, it would have been relatively straightforward to test a rotor setting; a Typex machine modified to replicate Enigma could be set up and the crib letter A encrypted on it, and compared with the ciphertext, W. If they matched, the next letter would be tried, checking that T encrypted to S and so on for the entire length of the crib. If at any point the letters failed to match, the initial rotor setting would be rejected; most incorrect settings would be ruled out after testing just two letters. This test could be readily mechanised and applied to all 17,576 settings of the rotors.\n\nHowever, with the plugboard, it was much harder to perform trial encryptions because it was unknown what the crib and ciphertext letters were transformed to by the plugboard. For example, in the first position, A and W were unknown because the plugboard settings were unknown.\n\nTuring's solution to working out the stecker values (plugboard connections) was to note that, even though the values for, say, A or W, were unknown, the crib still provided known relationships amongst these values; that is, the values after the plugboard transformation. Using these relationships, a cryptanalyst could reason from one to another and, potentially, derive a logical contradiction, in which case the rotor setting under consideration could be ruled out.\n\nA worked example of such reasoning might go as follows: a cryptanalyst might suppose that AY. Looking at position 10 of the crib:ciphertext comparison, we observe that A encrypts to T, or, expressed as a formula:\n\nDue to the function being its own inverse, we can apply it to both sides of the equation and obtain the following:\n\nThis gives us a relationship between A and T. If A = Y, and for the rotor setting under consideration Y = Q (say), we can deduce that\n\nWhile the crib does not allow us to determine what the values after the plugboard are, it does provide a constraint between them. In this case, it shows how T is completely determined if A is known.\n\nLikewise, we can also observe that T encrypts to L at position 8. Using , we can deduce the steckered value for L as well using a similar argument, to get, say,\n\nSimilarly, in position 6, K encrypts to L. As the Enigma machine is self-reciprocal, this means that at the same position L would also encrypt to K. Knowing this, we can apply the argument once more to deduce a value for \"P(\"K, which might be:\n\nAnd again, the same sort of reasoning applies at position 7 to get:\n\nHowever, in this case, we have derived a contradiction, since, by hypothesis, we assumed that A = Y at the outset. This means that the initial assumption must have been incorrect, and so that (for this rotor setting) A ≠ Y (this type of argument is termed \"reductio ad absurdum\" or \"proof by contradiction\").\nThe cryptanalyst hypothesised one plugboard interconnection for the bombe to test. The other stecker values and the ring settings were worked out by hand methods.\n\nTo automate these logical deductions, the bombe took the form of an electrical circuit. Current flowed around the circuit near-instantaneously, and represented all the possible logical deductions which could be made at that position. To form this circuit, the bombe used several sets of Enigma rotor stacks wired up together according to the instructions given on a menu, derived from a crib. Because each Enigma machine had 26 inputs and outputs, the replica Enigma stacks are connected to each other using 26-way cables. In addition, each Enigma stack rotor setting is offset a number of places as determined by its position in the crib; for example, an Enigma stack corresponding to the fifth letter in the crib would be four places further on than that corresponding to the first letter.\nPractical bombes used several stacks of rotors spinning together to test multiple hypotheses about possible setups of the Enigma machine, such as the order of the rotors in the stack.\n\nWhile Turing's bombe worked in theory, it required impractically long cribs to rule out sufficiently large numbers of settings. Gordon Welchman came up with a way of using the symmetry of the Enigma stecker to increase the power of the bombe. His suggestion was an attachment called the \"diagonal board\" that further improved the bombe's effectiveness.\n\nThe Polish cryptologic \"bomba\" (Polish: \"bomba kryptologiczna\"; plural \"bomby\") had been useful only as long as three conditions were met. First, the form of the indicator had to include the repetition of the message key; second, the number of rotors available had to be limited to three, giving six different \"wheel orders\" (the three rotors and their order within the machine); and third, the number of plug-board leads had to remain relatively small so that the majority of letters were \"unsteckered\". Six machines were built, one for each possible rotor order. The \"bomby\" were delivered in November 1938, but barely a month later the Germans introduced two additional rotors for loading into the Enigma scrambler, increasing the number of wheel orders by a factor of ten. Building another 54 \"bomby\" was beyond the Poles' resources. Also, on 1 January 1939, the number of plug-board leads was increased to ten. The Poles therefore had to return to manual methods, the Zygalski sheets.\n\nAlan Turing designed the British bombe on a more general principle, the assumption of the presence of text, called a \"crib\", that cryptanalysts could predict was likely to be present at a defined point in the message. This technique is termed a \"known plaintext attack\" and had been used to a limited extent by the Poles, e.g., the Germans' use of \"ANX\" — \"AN\", German for \"To,\" followed by \"X\" as a spacer.\n\nBletchley Park's commanding officer Edward Travis acquired a £100,000 budget for the construction of Turing's machine, and the contract to build the bombes was awarded to the British Tabulating Machine Company (BTM) at Letchworth. BTM placed the project under the direction of Harold 'Doc' Keen. Each machine was about wide, tall, deep and weighed about a ton. On the front of each bombe were 108 places where drums could be mounted. The drums were in three groups of 12 triplets. Each triplet, arranged vertically, corresponded to the three rotors of an Enigma scrambler. The bombe drums' input and output contacts went to cable connectors, allowing the bombe to be wired up according to the menu. The 'fast' drum rotated at a speed of 50.4 rpm in the first models and 120 rpm in later ones, when the time to set up and run through all 17,576 possible positions for one rotor order was about 20 minutes.\n\nThe first bombe was named \"Victory\". It was installed in \"Hut 1\" at Bletchley Park on 18 March 1940. It was based on Turing's original design and so lacked a diagonal board. On 26 April 1940, captured a German trawler (\"Schiff 26\", the \"Polares\") flying a Dutch flag; included in the capture were some Enigma keys for 23 to 26 April. Bletchley retrospectively attacked some messages sent during this period using the captured material and an ingenious Bombe menu where the Enigma fast rotors were all in the same position. In May and June 1940, Bletchley succeeded in breaking six days of naval traffic, 22–27 April 1940. Those messages were the first breaks of \"Kriegsmarine\" messages of the war, \"[b]ut though this success expanded Naval Section's knowledge of the Kriegsmarines's signals organization, it neither affected naval operations nor made further naval Enigma solutions possible.\" The second bombe, named \"Agnus dei\", later shortened to \"Agnes\", or \"Aggie\", was equipped with Welchman's diagonal board, and was installed on 8 August 1940; \"Victory\" was later returned to Letchworth to have a diagonal board fitted. The bombes were later moved from \"Hut 1\" to \"Hut 11\". The bombe was referred to by Group Captain Winterbotham as a \"Bronze Goddess\" because of its colour. The devices were more prosaically described by operators as being \"like great big metal bookcases\".\n\nDuring 1940, 178 messages were broken on the two machines, nearly all successfully. Because of the danger of bombes at Bletchley Park being lost if there were to be a bombing raid, bombe outstations were established, at Adstock, Gayhurst and Wavendon, all in Buckinghamshire. \nIn June–August 1941 there were 4 to 6 bombes at Bletchley Park, and when Wavendon was completed, Bletchley, Adstock and Wavenden had a total of 24 to 30 bombes. When Gayhurst became operational there were a total of 40 to 46 bombes, and it was expected that the total would increase to about 70 bombes run by some 700 Wrens (Women's Royal Naval Service). But in 1942 with the introduction of the naval four-rotor Enigma, \"far more than seventy bombes\" would be needed. New outstations were established at Stanmore and Eastcote, and the Wavendon and Adstock bombes were moved to them, though the Gayhurst site was retained. The few bombes left at Bletchley Park were used for demonstration and training purposes only.\n\nProduction of bombes by BTM at Letchworth in wartime conditions was nowhere near as rapid as the Americans later achieved at NCR in Dayton, Ohio.\n\nSergeant Jones was given the overall responsibility for Bombe maintenance by Edward Travis. Later Squadron Leader and not to be confused with Eric Jones, he was one of the original bombe maintenance engineers, and experienced in BTM techniques. Welchman said that later in the war when other people tried to maintain them, they realised how lucky they were to have him. About 15 million delicate wire brushes on the drums had to make reliable contact with the terminals on the template. There were 104 brushes per drum, 720 drums per bombe, and ultimately around 200 bombes.\n\nAfter World War II, some fifty bombes were retained at RAF Eastcote, while the rest were destroyed. The surviving bombes were put to work, possibly on Eastern bloc ciphers. Smith cites the official history of the bombe as saying that \"some of these machines were to be stored away but others were required to run new jobs and sixteen machines were kept comparatively busy on menus.\" and \"It is interesting to note that most of the jobs came up and the operating, checking and other times maintained were faster than the best times during the war periods.\"\n\nA program was initiated by Bletchley Park to design much faster bombes that could decrypt the four-rotor system in a reasonable time. There were two streams of development. One, code-named Cobra, with an electronic sensing unit, was produced by Charles Wynn-Williams of the Telecommunications Research Establishment (TRE) at Malvern and Tommy Flowers of the General Post Office (GPO). The other, code-named Mammoth, was designed by Harold Keen at BTM, Letchworth. Initial delivery was scheduled for August or September 1942. The dual development projects created considerable tension between the two teams, both of which cast doubts on the viability of the opposing team's machine. After considerable internal rivalry and dispute, Gordon Welchman (by then, Bletchley Park's Assistant Director for mechanisation) was forced to step in to resolve the situation. Ultimately, Cobra proved unreliable and Mammoth went into full-scale production.\n\nUnlike the situation at Bletchley Park, the United States armed services did not share a combined cryptanalytical service. Indeed, there was considerable rivalry between the US Army's facility, the Signals Intelligence Service (SIS), and that of the US Navy known as OP-20-G. Before the US joined the war, there was collaboration with Britain, albeit with a considerable amount of caution on Britain's side because of the extreme importance of Germany and her allies not learning that its codes were being broken. Despite some worthwhile collaboration amongst the cryptanalysts, their superiors took some time to achieve a trusting relationship in which both British and American bombes were used to mutual benefit.\n\nIn February 1941, Captain Abe Sinkov and Lieutenant Leo Rosen of the US Army, and US Naval Lieutenants Robert Weeks and Prescott Currier, arrived at Bletchley Park bringing, amongst other things, a replica of the 'Purple' cipher machine for the Bletchley Park's Japanese section in Hut 7. The four returned to America after ten weeks, with a naval radio direction finding unit and many documents including a 'paper Enigma'.\n\nCurrier later wrote:\n\nThe main response to the Four-rotor Enigma was the US Navy bombe, which was manufactured in much less constrained facilities than were available in wartime Britain.\n\nColonel John Tiltman, who later became Deputy Director at Bletchley Park, visited the US Navy cryptanalysis office (OP-20-G) in April 1942 and recognised America's vital interest in deciphering U-boat traffic. The urgent need, doubts about the British engineering workload and slow progress, prompted the US to start investigating designs for a Navy bombe, based on the full blueprints and wiring diagrams received by US Naval Lieutenants Robert Ely and Joseph Eachus at Bletchley Park in July 1942. Funding for a full, $2 million, navy development effort was requested on 3 September 1942 and approved the following day.\nCommander Edward Travis, Deputy Director and Frank Birch, Head of the German Naval Section travelled from Bletchley Park to Washington in September 1942. With Carl Frederick Holden, US Director of Naval Communications they established, on 2 October 1942, a UK:US accord which may have \"a stronger claim than BRUSA to being the forerunner of the UKUSA Agreement,\" being the first agreement \"to establish the special Sigint relationship between the two countries,\" and \"it set the pattern for UKUSA, in that the United States was very much the senior partner in the alliance.\" It established a relationship of \"full collaboration\" between Bletchley Park and OP-20-G.\n\nAn all electronic solution to the problem of a fast bombe was considered, but rejected for pragmatic reasons, and a contract was let with the National Cash Register Corporation (NCR) in Dayton, Ohio. This established the United States Naval Computing Machine Laboratory. Engineering development was led by NCR's Joseph Desch.\n\nAlan Turing, who had written a memorandum to OP-20-G (probably in 1941), was seconded to the British Joint Staff Mission in Washington in December 1942, because of his exceptionally wide knowledge about the bombes and the methods of their use. He was asked to look at the bombes that were being built by NCR and at the security of certain speech cipher equipment under development at Bell Labs. He visited OP-20-G, and went to NCR in Dayton on 21 December. He was able to show that it was not necessary to build 336 Bombes, one for each possible rotor order, by utilising techniques such as Banburismus. The initial order was scaled down to 96 machines.\n\nThe US Navy bombes used drums for the Enigma rotors in much the same way as the British bombes. They had eight Enigma-equivalents on the front and eight on the back. The fast drum rotated at 1,725 rpm, 34 times the speed of the early British bombes. 'Stops' were detected electronically using thermionic valves (vacuum tubes)—mostly thyratrons—for the high-speed circuits. When a 'stop' was found the machine over-ran as it slowed, reversed to the position found and printed it out before restarting. The running time for a 4-rotor run was about 20 minutes, and for a 3-rotor run, about 50 seconds. Each machine was wide, high, deep and weighed 2.5 tons.\n\nThe first machine was completed and tested on 3 May 1943. By 22 June, the first two machines, called 'Adam' and 'Eve' broke a particularly difficult German naval cipher, the \"Offizier\" settings for 9 and 10 June. A P Mahon, who had joined the Naval Section in Hut 8 in 1941, reported in his official 1945 \"History of Hut Eight 1939-1945\":\n\nThese bombes were faster, and soon more available, than the British bombes at Bletchley Park and its outstations. Consequently, they were put to use for Hut 6 as well as Hut 8 work. In Alexander's \"Cryptographic History of Work on German Naval Enigma\", he wrote as follows.\nProduction was stopped in September 1944 after 121 bombes had been made. The last-manufactured US Navy bombe is on display at the US National Cryptologic Museum. Jack Ingram, former Curator of the museum, describes being told of the existence of a second bombe and searching for it but not finding it whole. Whether it remains in storage in pieces, waiting to be discovered, or no longer exists, is unknown.\n\nThe US Army Bombe was physically very different from the British and US Navy bombes. A contract was signed with Bell Labs on 30 September 1942. The machine was designed to analyse 3-rotor, not 4-rotor traffic. It was known as \"003\" or \"Madame X\". It did not use drums to represent the Enigma rotors, using instead telephone-type relays. It could, however, handle one problem that the bombes with drums could not. The set of ten bombes consisted of a total of 144 Enigma-equivalents, each mounted on a rack approximately long high and wide. There were 12 control stations which could allocate any of the Enigma-equivalents into the desired configuration by means of plugboards. Rotor order changes did not require the mechanical process of changing drums, but was achieved in about half a minute by means of push buttons. A 3-rotor run took about 10 minutes.\n\nIn 1994 a group led by John Harper of the BCS Computer Conservation Society started a project to build a working replica of a bombe. The project required detailed research, and took 13 years of effort before the replica was completed, which was then put on display at the Bletchley Park museum. In March 2009 it won an Engineering Heritage Award. The Bombe rebuild was relocated to The National Museum of Computing on Bletchley Park in May 2018, the new gallery officially re-opening on the 23rd of June 2018\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51483443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51483443", "title": "Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie", "text": "Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie\n\nCaptain Underpants: The First Epic Movie is a 2017 American computer-animated superhero comedy film based on Dav Pilkey's children's novel series of the same name, produced by DreamWorks Animation and distributed by 20th Century Fox. It was directed by David Soren from a screenplay by Nicholas Stoller, and stars the voices of Kevin Hart, Ed Helms, Nick Kroll, Thomas Middleditch, Jordan Peele, and Kristen Schaal. The plot follows two imaginative elementary school pranksters named George Beard and Harold Hutchins (voiced by Kevin Hart and Thomas Middleditch) who hypnotize their mean-spirited principal, Mr. Krupp (voiced by Helms), into thinking he is Captain Underpants, a superhero who fights crime while wearing only underwear and a cape.\n\n\"Captain Underpants\" premiered on May 21, 2017, at the Regency Village Theater in Los Angeles, and was released in the United States on June 2, 2017, in 3D and 2D. The film grossed $125 million worldwide against a budget of $38 million, making it the lowest-budgeted computer-animated feature of DreamWorks Animation's history. This was the last DreamWorks Animation film to be distributed by 20th Century Fox (rights to the entire DWA library, including this film, are now owned by Universal Pictures, following NBCUniversal's purchase of DWA in 2016.) With the film's release in Saudi Arabia paired with \"The Emoji Movie\" on January 13, 2018, both became the first films to be given official public screenings in the country in 35 years after the removal of Saudi Arabia's cinema ban.\n\nIn the city of Piqua, Ohio, two fourth-grade friends and next-door neighbors named George Beard (Kevin Hart) and Harold Hutchins (Thomas Middleditch) are the pranksters at their school, Jerome Horwitz Elementary School. They excessively pull numerous pranks on the cruel teachers, many of which are directed at their mean-spirited principal, Benjamin Krupp (Ed Helms), putting the two at odds with him. The duo also create comic books about a superhero named Captain Underpants, who fights crime while wearing underwear and a cape. They distribute these to their schoolmates through a comic company called Treehouse Comix Inc., located in their treehouse. George and Harold's pranks come to an apparent end after they're caught tampering with a toilet invention, the Turbo Toilet 2000, made by the school's local snitch and intellectual, Melvin Sneedly (Jordan Peele), on video with Melvin's tattle-turtle. Finally having solid proof of the boys' antics, Mr. Krupp excitedly prepares to annihilate their friendship by putting them in separate classes.\n\nThe next week on Monday, they decide to get the turtle by sneaking into his office so they put the receptionist on hold by faking a contest with a cash prize of $1 billion, and found lots of stuff confiscated from them and George founds his 3D Hypno ring and Krupp gets back in and catches them red-handed and prepares to sign the paperwork of putting them in separate classes. To prevent this, George hypnotizes Mr. Krupp with a 3D Hypno Ring he received out of a cereal box. The boys see that Mr. Krupp bears an odd resemblance to Captain Underpants without his toupee and command him to be Captain Underpants. The boys soon learn the severity of their actions when Captain Underpants begins causing problems around Piqua. To prevent these issues, the boys take him to their treehouse, where they discover that they can turn Captain Underpants back into Mr. Krupp by splashing water on him and can turn him back into Captain Underpants by snapping their fingers. Knowing that Mr. Krupp will continue trying to separate them, they decide to settle with Captain Underpants but insist that he be dressed up as Mr. Krupp under the pretense of a \"secret identity\", to which Captain Underpants agrees. His sudden personality change even manages to attract the attention (and affection) of the school's shy lunch lady, Edith (Kristen Schaal).\n\nJust when George and Harold believe that their troubles have ended, Jerome Horwitz Elementary School is visited by an odd, German-accented scientist named Professor Pee-Pee Diarrheastein Poopypants Esq. (Nick Kroll), or as he calls himself, Professor P. Captain Underpants (disguised as Mr. Krupp) hires him to be the new science teacher, but George and Harold are suspicious of him due to his violent and short-tempered attitude, as well as his résumé's content. As it turns out, Poopypants is seeking to get rid of laughter altogether due to the fact that people have made fun of his name for years. He recruits Melvin to help him, as he discovers (after reading a comic book George and Harold made featuring characters resembling them called 'Captain Underpants and the Perilous Plot of Professor Poopypants) that Melvin's brain makes him incapable of laughing or having fun.\n\nAfter a school carnival accident caused by Captain Underpants (making a carnival and keeps turning to Krupp again and again due to the amount of water and it finally rains, causing the snapping not to work), Mr. Krupp finally separates the boys. Professor Poopypants tries to take over the town with a giant version of the Turbo Toilet 2000, fueled by the school cafeteria's rotten leftovers left out by Edith and uses Melvin's brain to turn the children into glum, humorless zombies. Captain Underpants tries to stop the villain, but due to having no actual superpowers, is effortlessly defeated and thrown into the toilet. George and Harold are captured and nearly turned into zombies, but are able to escape after Professor Poopypants mentions the planet Uranus, causing the boys to laugh and damage the Turbo Toilet 2000's computer, restoring the children back to normal. Upon consuming the mutated leftovers, Captain Underpants acquires superpowers and, with George and Harold's help, defeats and shrinks Poopypants, though he escapes on a bumblebee shortly thereafter.\n\nKnowing that they cannot control Captain Underpants, George and Harold destroy the Hypno Ring in an attempt to permanently change him back into Mr. Krupp. Feeling that Mr. Krupp would be nicer if he had friends, the boys set him and lovesick Edith up on a date, thus making Mr. Krupp have a change of heart. Krupp returns the comics he took away from George and Harold, and even admits their comics are funny. However, the toxic waste from the Turbo Toilet 2000 transforms all the toilets into vicious monsters which attack the restaurant at which Mr. Krupp and Edith are dining. Upon snapping his fingers, Mr. Krupp once again becomes Captain Underpants, carrying George and Harold away to help him fight them, much to Edith's surprise and admiration.\n\nIn a mid-credits scene, George and Harold realize that the secretary, who they put on hold before, has been on the phone for the entire film, so they talk over the phone, causing the secretary to drop the phone, ending the call, which makes the secretary angry, and they make a new comic based on her reaction called 'Captain Underpants and the Attack of Stuck On-Hold Woman'.\n\n\nDreamWorks' interest in the film rights to the \"Captain Underpants\" series dates back to when the first installment was published in 1997, but creator Dav Pilkey did not want to sell them. Early pitches for an adaptation included video games, animated and live-action films, an animated series, and a live-action series. To persuade him, DreamWorks gave Pilkey a tour around the studio with everyone wearing underpants over their actual pants, which made him laugh. In October 2011, his representatives indicated Pilkey was ready, and DreamWorks Animation won the rights in an auction. In October 2013, Rob Letterman was announced as director and Nicholas Stoller as scriptwriter. The two had previously worked together on the film \"Gulliver's Travels\". In January 2014, the cast was announced. Ed Helms joined as Mr. Krupp a.k.a. Captain Underpants, Kevin Hart as George Beard, Thomas Middleditch as Harold Hutchins, Nick Kroll as the \"insidious villain\" Professor Poopypants, and Jordan Peele as George and Harold's \"nerdy nemesis\" Melvin Sneedly.\n\nIn 2014, DreamWorks Animation announced a January 2017 release date. Following DreamWorks Animation's reorganization in early 2015, the studio announced that the film would be produced outside of the studio's pipeline at a significantly lower cost. It was instead animated at Mikros Image in Montreal, Canada, and at Technicolor Animation Productions in France, and therefore looks identical to Pilkey's artwork, as well as differently than most of DWA's films. A month later, Letterman left the project but came back as an executive producer, and David Soren, the director of \"Turbo\", entered talks to direct the film. During production, Pilkey got to work closely with Soren. He was relieved that Soren was directing since he was a fan of \"Turbo\". In an interview with \"Los Angeles Times\", Pilkey said: \"Once I met David, it was like a huge load fell off my back; I was like, 'I don't even have to think about this anymore. Just send me a couple of tickets to the premiere.'\" Commenting back, Soren said, \"In a way, the controversy over the books ended up being liberating for the film. Normally on an animated movie you're trying to appeal to every possible demographic, and often that results in your content being watered down a little bit. Obviously we hope we get as wide of an audience as possible. But it's likely that if people have issues with the books they may have issues with the movie too, and we didn't feel like we needed to waste a lot of time trying to rope them in. It allowed us to make the purest version of the movie.\" Soren also said that he took inspiration from John Hughes films. In an interview with MovieFreak, he mentioned,\nAlthough it is a CG-animated feature, the film includes scenes that are traditionally animated, flash animated, a short cutout animation segment, and a sock puppet sequence created by Screen Novelties.\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic wrote and performed the theme song for the film, which was featured in a lyric video. Andy Grammer wrote another original song for the film, titled \"A Friend Like You\". The film also features music from Adam Lambert, Cold War Kids member Nathan Willett, and Lil Yachty. An 11-track soundtrack album was released digitally on June 2, 2017, by Virgin Records and Deep Well Records.\n\nThe film score was composed by Theodore Shapiro. A soundtrack for the score of the film was released on June 9. It features 24 pieces of music, and an exclusive digital booklet on iTunes. Three of the scores are also available on the soundtrack (those being \"Comic Book Opening\", \"Saving the Day\", and \"The Prank for Good\").\n\n\"Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie\" was previously scheduled to be released on March 10, 2017, but in September 2015, \"The Boss Baby\" took over its date. The film was then moved to June 2, 2017, and was released by 20th Century Fox. Other territories such as Europe and Asia received the film between July and October 2017 and the movie came on DVD and Blu-ray on September 12, 2017 and it premiered on May 21, 2017 at the Regency Village Theater in Los Angeles. The film was chosen along with \"The Emoji Movie\" to inaugurate the removal of Saudi Arabia's cinema ban through a double feature screening on January 13, 2018 organized by Cinema 70. Both are the first two movies to be given an official public screening in the country in 35 years.\n\n\"Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie\" grossed $73.9 million in the United States and Canada and $51.6 million in other territories, for a worldwide gross of $125.5 million, against a production budget of $38 million.\n\nIn North America, the film was released alongside \"Wonder Woman\", and was projected to gross around $20 million from 3,434 theaters in its opening weekend. It made $8 million on its first day and $23.9 million in its opening weekend, finishing second at the box office, behind \"Wonder Woman\" ($103.3 million). The film grossed $12.2 million in its second weekend, $7.2 million in its third and $4.3 million in its fourth.\n\nIn Norway, the movie went to number-one at its box office for a week and made $1,8 million in total in its run.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 87% based on 122 reviews and an average rating of 6.8/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"With a tidy plot, clean animation, and humor that fits its source material snugly, \"Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie\" is entertainment that won't drive a wedge between family members.\" On Metacritic, the film has a score of 69 out of 100 based on 25 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B+\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nMatt Zoller Seitz of RogerEbert.com gave the film three-and-a-half out of four stars. Although Seitz pointed out that the film is hampered by \"a rushed, jumbled quality\" and has \"tiresome\" features that he says are common to DreamWorks, such as \"frenetic action scenes ... and the use of workhorse pop songs\", he emphasized that \"[t]hey've approached this compendium of elemental slapstick and unabashed childishness with the reverence that the Coen brothers brought to \"No Country for Old Men\".\" He further added that the inclusion of the flip book interludes are the film's best parts, especially in having the pages accidentally be torn similar to the real books, stating that \"[i]t's not often that a movie puts a spotlight on a mundane ritual in your own life that you never realized was profound and says, 'You probably forgot about this, but I want you to remember it and savor it, because it meant something.'\"\n\n\"Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie\" was released on Digital HD on August 29, 2017, and on DVD, Blu-ray and Ultra HD Blu-ray on September 12, 2017, by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment, and has been released by Universal Pictures Home Entertainment in certain territories. Following DreamWorks Animation's end of partnership with 20th Century Fox, this was the last DreamWorks Animation film to be re-released on home media by 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment.\n\nOn December 12, 2017, Netflix and DreamWorks Animation Television announced that there would be an animated series to follow-up the film, entitled \"The Epic Tales of Captain Underpants\". It premiered on the streaming service on July 13, 2018 and is executive-produced by Peter Hastings.\n\n"}
{"id": "26826023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26826023", "title": "Card paradox", "text": "Card paradox\n\nThe card paradox is a variant of the liar paradox constructed by Philip Jourdain. It is also known as the postcard paradox, Jourdain paradox or Jourdain's paradox.\n\nSuppose there is a card with statements printed on both sides:\n\nTrying to assign a truth value to either of them leads to a paradox.\n\n\nThe same mechanism applies to the second statement. Neither of the sentences employs (direct) self-reference, instead this is a case of circular reference. Yablo's paradox is a variation of the liar paradox that is intended to not even rely on circular reference.\n"}
{"id": "8513386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8513386", "title": "Chapman Piloting", "text": "Chapman Piloting\n\nChapman Piloting & Seamanship, published by Hearst Books, a Division of Sterling Publishing Co., Inc. has been a leading reference book for both power and sail boaters for nearly 100 years. Known as \"the Bible of Boating\", more than 3 million copies have been printed. The 67th edition (Hearst, 2013) has 920 pages, 1,500 full-color illustrations and charts, and exploded views and cutaways and updated with information on federal laws, regulations, and fees. Covers the newest technology — especially in the area of communications and navigation electronics equipment, such as GPS, radar, depth sounders/fish finders, chart plotters, engines,and other gear.\n\nIt contains authoritative information about boating rules, weather, tide, currents, and navigation, seamanship for powerboats, small craft, and boats under sail; anchoring, communications, and navigation; inland boating, marlinspike seamanship, and boating customs. It is often used as the text for private boating schools throughout the U.S.; officially recommended book for the U.S. Coast Guard's boating education classes and many local United States Power Squadrons.\n\nThe work originated in 1917.\n\nThe original author, Charles Frederic Chapman (1881–1976), was an avid boater, and the editor of Hearst's \"Motor Boating Magazine\" from 1912 to 1968. During World War I, the U.S. Government needed to train men in the Navy, Coast Guard and Merchant Marine to become operators of small boats, including landing craft, utility craft, gigs, patrol craft. Then Assistant U.S. Secretary of the Navy, Franklin D. Roosevelt, commissioned Chapman to write a manual that could be used to help provide that training. Chapman did this in just three days, drawing largely on articles that had appeared in \"Motor Boating Magazine\".\n\nThe result was \"Practical Boat Handling\", the first edition of which was published in 1917 with 144 pages, 5 in x 7 in. From this, the book evolved through subsequent editions into \"Piloting, Seamanship & Small Boat Handling\". The book title has now been shortened to \"Chapman Piloting & Seamanship\". Charles Chapman also became one of the original founders of the United States Power Squadrons.\n"}
{"id": "2472482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2472482", "title": "Cherufe", "text": "Cherufe\n\nThe Cherufe is a large man-eating mythical creature found in the Mapuche mythology of the indigenous Mapuche people of south-central Chile.\n\nThe Cherufe is an evil humanoid creature made of rock and magma. It is said that Cherufe inhabit the magma pools found deep within Chilean volcanoes and are the source of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. Cherufe are also said to be the source of \"magicians' ardent stones\" (meteorites and volcanic stones) that cause damage in volcanic regions.\n\nThe only way to abate the Cherufe's appetite for destruction was to satiate the beast's taste for human flesh by throwing a sacrificial victim into the bowels of its volcanic home. Much like the European dragon, the Cherufe's preferred delicacy came in the form of virginal maidens.\n\nThe mythological origins of this beast may have originated to explain anomalies of geological events such as volcanic eruptions.\n\n"}
{"id": "10070819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10070819", "title": "Claims to a crown", "text": "Claims to a crown\n\nThere are five ways in which a person may lay claim to a crown. The below ordering is based on strength of case and possession.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25263483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25263483", "title": "Comparison of Canadian football and rugby league", "text": "Comparison of Canadian football and rugby league\n\nA comparison of Canadian football and rugby league football can be made because of their shared origins, resulting in similarities and shared concepts in terms of scoring and advancing the ball. Aside from American football, rugby league is the sport most similar to Canadian football. Both sports involve the concept of a limited number of 'downs'/'tackles', and in both sports scoring 'touchdowns'/'tries' takes a clear precedence over goal-kicking.\n\nBritish colonists and the British military in Canada brought rugby football to North America. It, along with association football, became popular in Canadian and American universities. At the time association football, or \"soccer\", and rugby were not as differentiated as they are now and teams would negotiate the rules before playing a game. The sports of Canadian football and American football evolved from these intercollegiate games.\n\nMeanwhile, in England a schism developed in rugby football between those who favoured strict amateurism and those who felt that players should be compensated for time taken off work to play rugby. In 1895 this resulted in the formation of a break-away sport, rugby league, the rules of the two codes of rugby (union and league) would themselves diverge.\n\nModern rugby league has been judged by William K. Frampton as having \"an amazing resemblance to the original Canadian game\". Frampton characterised rugby league as \"so similar to the game Neil Taylor played that is effectively an improved version of it\". However the games diverged subsequently resulting in major differences such as the forward pass, where the ball is thrown to a receiver located farther down field.\n\nThe Canadian football field is long and wide with end zones deep. At each goal line is a set of goalposts, which consist of two \"uprights\" joined by a crossbar which is above the goal line. The goalposts may be H-shaped (both posts fixed in the ground) although in the higher-calibre competitions the tuning-fork design (supported by a single curved post behind the goal line, so that each post starts above the ground) is preferred.\n\nA rugby league field is similar, it may be 112-122 by 68 metres (122.5-133.4 × 74.3 yards). The longer boundary lines are \"touch lines\", while the shorter boundary lines are \"dead ball lines\". The touch lines and dead ball lines are out of play. Near each end of the field is a \"goal line\", or try-line; they are 100 metres (109.4 yards) apart. A scoring area equivalent to an end-zone called the \"in-goal area\" extends 6–11 metres (6.6-12 yards) from each try-line to each dead ball line, the ball may be grounded to score a try here. On the goal line are a set of goal posts in the shape of the letter 'H', used for other forms of point scoring: drop goal, penalty goal and conversion.\n\nCanadian teams have twelve players on the field per side. Different players may be interchanged at will for offence and defence as well as special teams for specific activities.\n\nIn rugby league the same players both defend and attack - a system known as the one-platoon system in Canadian football. There are thirteen players and four replacements in a rugby league team, with twelve interchanges of players allowed to be made throughout the game. If the interchanges are used up and a player becomes injured and cannot continue, the team simply has to play a man short.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46901282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46901282", "title": "Comparison of Material Design implementations", "text": "Comparison of Material Design implementations\n\nThis page contains general information about Google's Material Design implementations.\n\nPlease note that some components in the following table are not in the official material design specifications.\n"}
{"id": "33516090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33516090", "title": "Concept-based image indexing", "text": "Concept-based image indexing\n\nConcept-based image indexing, also variably named as \"description-based\" or \"text-based\" image indexing/retrieval, refers to retrieval from text-based indexing of images that may employ keywords, subject headings, captions, or natural language text (Chen & Rasmussen, 1999). It is opposed to Content-based image retrieval. Indexing is a technique used in CBIR.\n\nChu (2001) confirms that there exist two distinctive research groups employing the content-based and description-based approaches, respectively. However, research in the content-based domain is currently dominating in the field, while the other approach has less visibility.\n\n\nAhmad, K., M. Tariq, B. Vrusias and C.Handy. 2003. Corpus-based thesaurus construction for image retrieval in specialist domains. In Sebastiani, F. (ed.). Proceedings of the 25th European Conference on Information Retrieval Research (ECIR-03). 502–510. Heidelberg: Springer Verlag.\n\nAngeles, M. (1998). Information Organization and Information Use of Visual Resources Collections. VRA Bulletin, 25 (3), 51-58. http://urlgreyhot.com/personal/publications/information_organization_and_information_use_of_visual_resources?PHPSESSID=05f07e15bb719a05b4c621657f8cd897\n\nChen, H.-L., & Rasmussen, E.M. (1999). Intellectual access to images. Library Trends, 48(2), 291–302.\n\nChu, H. T. (2001). Research in image indexing and retrieval as reflected in the literature. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 52(12), 1011-1018. \n\nFidel, R.; Hahn, T. B.; Rasmussen, E. M. & Smith, P. J. (1994). Challenges in Indexing Electronic Text and Images. Medford, NJ: Learned Information. (ASIS Monograph Series) \n\nHeidorn, P. B. & Sandore, B. (Eds.). (1997). Digital Image Access & Retrieval: Proceedings of the 1996 Clinic on Library Applications of Data Processing. Illinois: University of Illinois, Graduate School of Library and Information Science. \nJörgensen, C. (2003). Image Retrieval. Theory and Research. Lanham, Maryland: Scarecrow Press. \nLandbeck, C. R. (2002). The organization and categorization of political cartoons: An exploratory study. The Florida State University, School of Information Studies. (Master of Science thesis). https://web.archive.org/web/20120331122537/http://etd.lib.fsu.edu/theses/available/etd-06272003-144515/unrestricted/crl01.pdf\n\nLamy-Rousseau, F. (1984). Classification des images, materiels et donnees = Classification of images, materials and data . 2nd ed. Longueuil, Quebec: F. Lamy-Rousseau.\n\nPanofsky, E. (1962). Studies in Icology: Humanistic themes in the art of the Renaissance. New York: Harper & Row.\n\nRasmussen, E. M. (1997). Indexing images. Annual Review of Information Science and Technology, 32, 169-196.\n\nShatford, S. (1986). Analyzing the Subject of a Picture: A Theoretical Approach. Cataloging and Classification Quarterly, 6(3), 39-62.\n\nWang, J. Z. (2001). Integrated Region-Based Image Retrieval. Boston, MA: Kluwer Academic Publishers. Book review: http://www-db.stanford.edu/~wangz/project/kluwer/1/review.pdf\n\nWang, Xin; Erdelez, Sanda; Allen, Carla; Anderson, Blake; Cao, Hongfei & Shyu, Chi-Ren (2011). Role of Domain Knowledge in Developing User-Centered Medical-Image Indexing. Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, early view October 2011. \n\nWarden, G.; Dunbar, D.; Wanczycki, C. & O'Hanley, S. (2002). The Subject Analysis of Images: Past, Present and Future. https://web.archive.org/web/20080726185732/http://www.slais.ubc.ca/PEOPLE/students/student-projects/C_Wanczycki/libr517/homepage.html\n\nØrnager, S. (1997). Image retrieval - Theoretical analysis and empirical user studies on accessing information in images. Proceedings of the ASIS annual meeting, 34, 202-211.\n"}
{"id": "53632609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53632609", "title": "Conservation and restoration of herbaria", "text": "Conservation and restoration of herbaria\n\nThe conservation and restoration of herbaria includes the preventative care, repair, and restoration of herbarium specimens. This is performed by registrars, curators, and conservators on herbarium collections in universities and museums. Herbarium specimens may be susceptible to water damage, mold, pests, unattached specimens, dust and dirt, and damage from improper storage conditions. Preventative conservation can prevent much of the damage that could occur.\n\nA herbarium is a collection of preserved plant specimens and associated data used for scientific study. The specimens may be whole plants or plant parts. These will usually be dried and pressed and mounted on a sheet of paper but, depending upon the material, may also be stored in boxes or kept in alcohol or other preservative.\n\n\nCommon herbarium pests include:\nA reoccurring threat to the longevity of herbarium specimens is insects, a number of which find dried plants palatable. Historically, various methods have been used to kill insects, which either come in with the plants when they are collected or are in the building where the plants are stored.\n\nPests are commonly treated with two different methods:\nAn integrated pest management program is cost-effective over time and the best preventative measure against pests.\n\nThe primary risk factor for fungal attack is incomplete drying of specimens, caused either during the specimen preparation process or afterwards, or in collections that become wet later through flood, other water damage or improper storage conditions, especially in the tropics. Properly dried plant specimens will not suffer from fungal attack if stored in the correct conditions. During the drying process specimens are particularly at risk if they dry slowly. This happens through poor drying conditions or specimens being wet before being pressed or having water-retaining or succulent parts. Specimens with sugary exudations or large quantities of nectar are also particularly attractive to fungi and need special care during drying to ensure that they dry fast enough to prevent mold growth. If fungal growth occurs on specimens, it can be brushed with 95% ethanol or methylated spirits (denatured alcohol). However, this may alter the specimen for chemical and other investigative research and only kills the fungus present on the specimen, not preventing further problems of fungal growth.\n\nHerbarium specimens are sensitive to visible light and ultraviolet radiation, which can cause fading of biological pigments (fading or shifts in color) and/or damage to chemical bonds (weakened or embrittled).\n\nHigh temperatures contribute to desiccation. The rate of any chemical reaction that damages specimens will double with each 10 °C rise in temperature. Excessive moisture in the air (above 65% relative humidity) encourages pest infestation and/or the softening of some adhesives.\n\nSpecimens are stored in environmentally controlled storage rooms away from direct sunlight with limited exposure to other light sources to minimize causes of deterioration. Storage rooms are kept at a relative humidity (RH) level of between 45% and 55%. Temperature levels are kept between 18 °C and 22 °C. Store rooms are never completely immune to pests. Pest infestations are reduced by the regular vacuuming of storage areas and not allowing any food or drink in the storage rooms.\nSpecimens are stored in standard herbarium cabinets, as metal shelves can be easily cleaned and a well-sealed cabinet will provide a stable micro-climate for the specimens. Metal cabinets do not release volatile organic compounds, like wooden cabinets do. Plants are thoroughly dry and free of pests before placing in cabinets to prevent deterioration. Specimens mounted on sheets are kept flat and placed on stiff cardboard or in a box when moving them from cabinets to work spaces to minimize damage during examination. The weight from folders stacked too high can cause damage to lower specimens. Folders are kept specimen-side up and never turned over, so the specimens are never face down. During examinations, handlers review for potential maintenance (loose specimens, unattached specimens, etc.). Leaning on herbarium sheets, writing notes on top of them, or placing heavy items or elbows on them can cause serious damage.\n\nOlder herbaria specimens may have been treated with toxic chemicals including lead, mercury, and arsenic to prevent pests. Handlers wear nitrile gloves and work in a well ventilated room when working with specimens prepared earlier than 1989. The card on which the specimen is mounted and the specimen itself may contain the chemicals. The dust on herbaria sheets may be contaminated, so conservators wear a dust mask and use a dust extractor or fume cupboard when cleaning.\n\nDust and dirt are removed from herbarium sheets by using a smoke sponge. Conservators gently rub the place where the dirt is and then softly remove any excess with a fine brush.\n\nBroken specimens are reattached to the herbaria sheet using thinly cut strips of archival pre-gummed linen tape. Detached materials such as seeds, leaves, etc., are placed in an acid-free card fragment packet, which is secured onto the sheet with the original specimen.\n\nUnattached specimens are removed from the herbaria sheet by humidifying it to make them pliable and removing the plant with a paper lifter (smooth wooden spatula). They are then placed to dry and flatten along with the original mounting sheet and written documentation (label and annotations). The specimen and original documents are then remounted to a new sheet using the original sheet as reference.\n\nUnforeseen disasters can occur at any time and disaster recovery planning and materials for herbaria are similar to museums and libraries. Little can be done with burnt specimens and fragmented specimens except to preserve and protect what is left intact. The damage most likely to occur is water damage through natural or man made flooding, such as roof leakage or fire sprinkler malfunction. Damaged of waterlogged specimens are frozen to delay deterioration and prevent fungal attack, which gives curators time to evaluate the situation and decide how best to approach the problem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56589732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56589732", "title": "Conybeare's Textbook of Medicine", "text": "Conybeare's Textbook of Medicine\n\nConybeare's Textbook of Medicine is a medical textbook. The first edition was published in 1929 and it reached its fifteenth edition in 1970, causing a reviewer to state the review was \"superfluous\". Another review stated it was \"old-fashioned and readable...well written\".\n\nThe doctor for whom the text is named is John Josias Conybeare, son of Frederick Cornwallis Conybeare. He was on the staff of Guy's Hospital from which he retired in 1953, and died in 1967.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "885195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=885195", "title": "Country codes: N", "text": "Country codes: N\n"}
{"id": "23446861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23446861", "title": "Doninger v. Niehoff", "text": "Doninger v. Niehoff\n\nDoninger v. Niehoff, 527 F.3d 41 (2d Cir. 2008) was a United States Court of Appeals case. The case was heard by a three-judge Second Circuit panel that included Judges Sonia Sotomayor, Loretta A. Preska, and Debra Livingston. The case involved a student at Lewis S. Mills High School in Connecticut who was barred from the student government after she called the superintendent and other school officials \"douchebags\" in a LiveJournal blog post written while off-campus that encouraged students to call an administrator and \"piss her off more\". Judge Livingston held that the district judge did not abuse his discretion in holding that the student's speech \"foreseeably create[d] a risk of substantial disruption within the school environment,\" which is the precedent in the Second Circuit for when schools may regulate off-campus speech On October 31, 2011, the United States Supreme Court declined to grant certiorari on Ms. Doninger's appeal. \n\nAlthough Sotomayor did not write this opinion, she has been criticized by some who disagree with it.\n"}
{"id": "68695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68695", "title": "Easton's Bible Dictionary", "text": "Easton's Bible Dictionary\n\nThe Illustrated Bible Dictionary, better known as Easton's Bible Dictionary, is a reference work on topics related to the Christian Bible compiled by Matthew George Easton. The first edition was published in 1893, and a revised edition was published the following year. The most popular edition, however, was the third, published by Thomas Nelson in 1897, three years after Easton's death. The last contains nearly 4,000 entries relating to the Bible. Many of the entries in \"Easton's\" are encyclopedic in nature, although there are also short dictionary-type entries.\n\nBecause of its age, it is now a public domain resource.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21904205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21904205", "title": "Electronic court filing", "text": "Electronic court filing\n\nElectronic court filing (ECF), or e-filing, is the automated transmission of legal documents from an attorney, party or self-represented litigant to a court, from a court to an attorney, and from an attorney or other user to another attorney or other user of legal documents.\n\nThe LegalXML Electronic Court Filing Technical Committee, a subcommittee of OASIS, with members representing both public and private sector organizations, has developed technical specifications that provide for standardization of the following for electronic filing of court documents:\n\nThese XML-based standards support the implementation of electronic court filing but they do not define court policies. In 2003, the National Center for State Courts (NCSC) published Standards for Electronic Filing Processes (Technical and Business Approaches).\n\nIn the summer of 2009, the NCSC commenced a survey of the usage of e-filing in state courts across the country, including U.S. Territories. The survey responses were published in the 2009 NCSC Court E-filing Survey.\n\n\n\nThis version was approved by the NCSC Joint Technology Committee as a recommended standard in 2002.\n\nThis version number was skipped in order to create a linkage between GJXDM 3.0.\n\n\n\nIn an effort to promote implementation of the ECF 4.0 specification, the OASIS LegalXML ECF committee developed a \"quick start guide\", the \"7 Steps to Electronic Filing with Electronic Court Filing 4.0\". The guide provides information on the following topics:\n\nThe LegalXML Electronic Court Filing Technical Committee serves as the primary source of documentation and support.\n\n"}
{"id": "23833712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23833712", "title": "Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine", "text": "Encyclopedia of Modern Ukraine\n\nEncyclopedia of Modern Ukraine (EMU) () is a multi-volume comprehensive encyclopedic edition about Ukraine from the beginning of the 20th century till nowadays. It is prepared and published by the Institute of Encyclopaedic Research of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.\n\nThe encyclopedia provides an integral image of modern Ukraine describing events, institutions, organizations, activities, notions and people. It embraces all spheres of life in Ukraine, and reflects modern views on historical events and figures. Altogether, 30 volumes are planned — by 2017 18 volumes had been published.\n\nThe \"EMU\" has repeatedly held leading places in the ‘Book of the Year’ Ukrainian national rating, it was awarded numerous diplomas, in particular, in 2003 it became a laureate of the “Person of the Year-2002” Ukrainian national program in the category “Cultural Project of the Year”.\nThe \"EMU\" will form the basis for the national multi-volume \"Ukrainian Universal Encyclopaedia\", a common project of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine and the Shevchenko Scientific Society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "647512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647512", "title": "Germania (book)", "text": "Germania (book)\n\nThe Germania, written by the Roman historian Publius Cornelius Tacitus around 98  and originally entitled On the Origin and Situation of the Germans (), was a historical and ethnographic work on the Germanic tribes outside the Roman Empire.\n\nThe \"Germania\" begins with a description of the lands, laws, and customs of the Germanic people (chapters 1–27); it then describes individual tribes, beginning with those dwelling closest to Roman lands and ending on the uttermost shores of the Baltic, among the amber-gathering Aesti, the Fenni, and the unknown tribes beyond them.\n\nTacitus says (chapter 2) that physically, the Germanic peoples appear to be a distinct nation, not an admixture of their neighbors, since nobody would desire to migrate to a climate as horrid as that of Germania. They are divided into three large branches, the Ingaevones, the Herminones, and the Istaevones, deriving their ancestry from three sons of Mannus, son of Tuisto, their common forefather.\nIn chapter 4, he mentions that they all have common physical characteristics, blue eyes (\"truces et caerulei oculi\" = \"sky-coloured, azure, dark blue, dark green), reddish hair (\" rutilae comae\" = \"red, golden-red, reddish yellow\"), and large bodies, vigorous at the first onset but not tolerant of exhausting labour, tolerant of hunger and cold, but not of heat or thirst.\n\nIn chapter 7, Tacitus describes their government and leadership as somewhat merit-based and egalitarian, with leadership by example rather than authority, and punishments are carried out by the priests. He mentions (chapter 8) that the opinions of women are given respect. In chapter 11, Tacitus describes a form of folk assembly rather similar to the public Things recorded in later Germanic sources: in these public deliberations, the final decision rests with the men of the tribe as a whole.\n\nTacitus further discusses the role of women in chapters 7 and 8, mentioning that they often accompany the men to battle and offer encouragement. He says that the men are often highly motivated to fight for the women because of an extreme fear of losing them to captivity. Tacitus says (chapter 18) that the Germans are mainly content with one wife, except for a few political marriages, and specifically and explicitly compares this practice favorably to other barbarian cultures, perhaps since monogamy was a shared value between Roman and Germanic cultures. He also records (chapter 19) that adultery is very rare, and that an adulterous woman is shunned afterward by the community regardless of her beauty. In chapter 45, Tacitus mentions that the tribe to the north of the Germans, the Sitones, \"resemble [the Suevi Scandinavians] in all respects but one - woman is the ruling sex.\"\n\nThe latter chapters of the books describe the various Germanic tribes, their relative locations, and some of their characteristics. Many of the tribes named correspond with other (and later) historical records and traditions, while the fate of others is less clear. \n\nEthnography had a long and distinguished heritage in classical literature, and the \"Germania\" fits squarely within the tradition established by authors from Herodotus to Julius Caesar. Tacitus himself had already written a similar—albeit shorter—essay on the lands and tribes of Britannia in his \"Agricola\" (chapters 10–13).\nThe work can appear moralizing at points, perhaps implicitly comparing the values of Germanic tribes and those of his Roman contemporaries, although a direct comparison between Rome and Germania is not explicitly presented in the text. In writing the work, Tacitus might have wanted to stress the dangers that the Germanic tribes posed to the Empire.\n\nTacitus' descriptions of the Germanic character are at times favorable in contrast to the opinions of the Romans of his day. He holds the strict monogamy and chastity of Germanic marriage customs worthy of the highest praise, in contrast to what he saw as the vice and immorality rampant in Roman society of his day (chapter 18), and he admires their open hospitality, their simplicity, and their bravery in battle. All of these traits were highlighted perhaps because of their similarity to idealized Roman virtues. One should not, however, think that Tacitus' portrayal of Germanic customs is entirely favorable; he notes a tendency in the Germanic people for what he saw as their habitual drunkenness, laziness, and barbarism, among other traits.\n\nThe ethnonym \"Germani\" as used by Tacitus does not necessarily coincide with the modern linguistic definition of Germanic peoples as any people speaking a Germanic language, and the details of the classification \"Germani\" have been debated in scholarship, e.g.\nthe possibility that the Batavians may therefore have been Celtic-speaking.\nTacitus nevertheless shows no lack of precision in stating that the Nervii are not actually Germanic as they claim to be (chapter 28).\nHe also notes in chapter 43 that a certain tribe called the Cotini actually speaks a Gallic tongue, and likewise the Osi speak a Pannonian dialect.\n\nTacitus himself had never travelled in the Germanic lands; all his information is second-hand at best. Ronald Syme supposed that Tacitus closely copied the lost \"Bella Germaniae\" of Pliny the Elder, since the \"Germania\" is in some places outdated: in its description of the Danubian tribes, says Syme, \"they are loyal clients of the Empire ... Which is peculiar. The defection of these peoples in the year 89 during Domitian's war against the Dacians modified the whole frontier policy of the Empire.\" (p. 128). While Pliny may have been the primary source, scholars have identified others; among them are Caesar's \"Gallic Wars\", Strabo, Diodorus Siculus, Posidonius, Aufidius Bassus, and numerous nonliterary sources, presumably based on interviews with traders and soldiers who had ventured beyond the Rhine and Danube borders, and Germanic mercenaries in Rome.\n\nAll copies of \"Germania\" were lost during the Middle Ages and the work was forgotten until a single manuscript was found in Hersfeld Abbey (\"Codex Hersfeldensis\") in 1425. It was then brought to Italy, where Enea Silvio Piccolomini, later Pope Pius II, first examined and analyzed the book. This sparked interest among German humanists, including Conrad Celtes, Johannes Aventinus, and Ulrich von Hutten and beyond.\n\nThe peoples of medieval Germany (the Kingdom of Germany in the Holy Roman Empire) were heterogenous, separated in distinct tribal kingdoms, such as the Bavarians, Franconians, and Swabians, distinctions which remain evident in the German language and culture after the unification of Germany in 1871 (aside from Austria) and the establishment of modern Austria and Germany. During the medieval period, a self-designation of \"Germani\" was virtually never used; the name was only revived in 1471, inspired by the rediscovered text of \"Germania\", to invoke the warlike qualities of the ancient Germans in a crusade against the Turks. Ever since its discovery, treatment of the text regarding the culture of the early Germanic peoples in ancient Germany remains strong, especially in German history, philology, and ethnology studies, and to a lesser degree in Scandinavian countries, as well. Beginning in 16th-century German humanism, German interest in Germanic antiquity remained acute throughout the period of Romanticism and nationalism. A scientific angle was introduced with the development of Germanic philology by Jacob Grimm.\nBecause of its influence on the ideologies of Pan-Germanism and Nordicism, Jewish-Italian historian Arnaldo Momigliano in 1956 described \"Germania\" and the \"Iliad\" as \"among the most dangerous books ever written\". Christopher Krebs, a professor at Stanford University, claims in a 2012 study that \"Germania\" played a major role in the formation of the core concepts of Nazi ideology. The mainstream German reception is much less sensationalist and sees Tacitus's description as more patronizing than laudatory, a predecessor of the classical noble savage concept which started in the 17th and 18th centuries in western European literature. Krebs has been criticized harshly for leaving out anything \"not leading to Himmler\" and especially leaving out the important influence of Tacitus Germania on e.g. Scandinavism or Abbé Sieyès notion of the third estates nor the rather different interpretation between fascist allies Germany and Italy.\n\nThe \"Codex Aesinas\" is believed to be portions of the Codex Hersfeldensis – the lost Germania manuscript brought to Rome from Hersfeld Abbey. It was rediscovered in 1902 by priest-philologist Cesare Annibaldi in the possession of Count Aurelio Balleani of Iesi.\n\nAdolf Hitler and Heinrich Himmler sought unsuccessfully to gain possession of the \"Codex Aesinas\".\n\nTemporarily transferred to Florence for the controls at the state body of the fine arts, the manuscript was severely damaged during the 1966 flood. It was later restored and brought back to Iesi, and in 1994, the \"Codex Aesinas\" was given to the National Library in Rome, catalogued as \"Cod. Vitt. Em. 1631\".\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "48938629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48938629", "title": "Global Arabic Encyclopedia", "text": "Global Arabic Encyclopedia\n\nThe Global Arabic Encyclopedia () is an encyclopedic reference work written in the Arabic language. It is in part a translation of the American \"World Book Encyclopedia\", edited and expanded to reflect an Arab–Muslim perspective. Its composition and publication were funded by Sultan bin Abdulaziz, Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe printed edition first appeared in 1996 (1416 AH) as a 30-volume set with color illustrations. A second, revised edition appeared in 1999 (1419 AH) and in the same year a digitization project was started that resulted in an electronic internet edition in 2004. The encyclopedia contains almost 24,000 articles.\n\nThe printed edition of the \"Global Arabic Encyclopedia\" consists of 30 volumes, it contains about 17,000 pages and has approximately 12,000 illustrations, 2500 maps, 4,000 charts, and 1,000 tables and timelines. it was printed twice, first in 1996 and the final one was in 1999.\n\nThe electronic online version of the global Arabic encyclopedia consists of two sections, the free of charge section which contains about 4,000 articles searchable freely. The other section of the site is a subscription based portion that covers over 150,000 research material-titles and subtitles, includes 20,000 illustrations and maps. 500 audio files and video clips are also available. In Ramadan 2007 (1428 AH) an unofficial version of the encyclopedia was released in the .chm format.\n\nIn a 2009 catalogue entry, P. Bearman describes the \"GAE\" as having wide coverage, but also a \"subtle Saudi-centric stance\" and an overall lack of objectivity, as witnessed by the lack of any mention of the Holocaust, the not-mentioning of the homoeroticism in articles about W. H. Auden and Abu Nuwas, and the removal of the \"World Book\" article about homosexuality in favor of a condemning new article about sexual deviations. The \"GAE\" contains no lists of references or suggestions for further reading.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "965399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965399", "title": "Go ranks and ratings", "text": "Go ranks and ratings\n\nThere are various systems of Go ranks and ratings that measure the skill in the traditional board game Go. Traditionally, Go rankings have been measured using a system of dan and kyu ranks. Especially in amateur play, these ranks facilitate the handicapping system, with a difference of one rank roughly corresponding to one free move at the beginning of the game. This system is also commonly used in many oriental martial arts, where it often corresponds with a belt color. With the ready availability of calculators and computers, rating systems have been introduced. In such systems, a rating is rigorously calculated on the basis of game results.\n\nTraditionally, the level of players has been defined using \"kyu\" and \"dan\" ranks. Kyu ranks are considered \"student\" ranks. Dan ranks are considered \"master\" ranks. Beginners who have just learned the rules of the game are usually around 30th kyu. As they progress, they advance numerically downwards through the kyu grades. The best kyu grade attainable is therefore 1st kyu. If players progress beyond 1st kyu, they will receive the rank of 1st dan, and from thereon will move numerically upwards through the dan ranks. In martial arts, 1st dan is the equivalent of a black belt. The very best players may achieve a \"professional dan rank\".\n\nThe rank system is tabulated from the lowest to highest ranks:\n\nAlthough almost all organizations use this system, there is no universal calibration. The means of awarding each of those ranks and the corresponding levels of strength vary from country to country and among online Go servers. This means that a player who is considered to be a 2nd kyu in one country, may only be considered a 5th kyu in another.\n\nDifferences in strength up to amateur dan level generally correspond to the level of handicap that would yield an even game between the two players. For instance, it is expected that a 3d player could give 2 handicap stones to a 1d player and win half of his or her games. In contrast, differences in professional ranks are much smaller, perhaps 1/4 to 1/3 of a handicap stone. There are some significant differences in strength between ordinary 9p players and the best players in the world because 9p is the highest rank possible, which may account for this variation.\n\nThe first Go ranks were given in 2nd century China, when Handan Chun (Chinese: 邯郸淳) described the 9 Pin Zhi (九品制) ranking system in his book \"Classic of Arts\" (艺经).\nFrom the early 17th century, the Japanese formalised the teaching and ranking of Go. The system was later used in martial arts schools; and is thought to be derived ultimately from court ranks in China. It is thought that the fact that there are 9 professional dan grades finds its base in the original 9 Chinese Pin Zhi grades.\n\nThe difference between two amateur grades is based on the number of handicap stones that a player requires to even the odds against a stronger player. A 5th kyu player will generally need a 3 stone handicap when playing against a 2nd kyu player to give both players a fair chance of winning. Similarly, a 3rd dan player will need a 2 stone handicap against a 5th dan opponent.\n\n\"Dan\" (abbreviated online as \"d\") ranks are for advanced amateur players. Although many organisations let players choose their own kyu rank to a certain extent, dan ranks are often regulated. This means that players will have to show good results in tournaments or pass exams to be awarded a dan rank. Serious students of the game will often strive to attain a dan rank, much as martial arts practitioners will strive to achieve a black belt. For amateurs, dan ranks up to 7th dan are available. Above this level, a player must become a professional player to achieve further promotions. In Japan and China, some players are awarded an amateur 8th \"dan\" rank as an honorary title for exceptional achievement. In the United States, amateur dan ranks are often based on the AGA rating system. Under this system, some strong amateurs and former professional players have achieved up to 9th dan amateur, though generally they will register as 6th or 7th dan in international events. Similarly, some players have achieved 9th dan amateur ranks in the rating system of online Go servers.\n\nAlthough players who have achieved professional dan ranks are nominally stronger than amateur dan players, in practice some of the strongest 7th dan amateur players have a playing level on par with that of some professional players. Such players have either never tried for a professional rank, or have chosen to remain amateur players because they do not want to make a career out of playing Go.\n\nThe professional dan ranking system is similar to that of amateurs in that it awards dan ranks that increase numerically with skill. The difference between these grades is much smaller than with amateurs however, and is not based on the number of handicap stones required. Professional dan ranks go up to 9th dan, but the strength difference between a 1st dan and a 9th dan professional is generally no more than 2–3 handicap stones.\n\nTo distinguish between professional \"dan\" and amateur \"dan\" ranks, the former is often abbreviated to \"p\" (sometimes called \"ping\") and the latter to \"d\". There was no such abbreviation in the past, and this is not generally used as an abbreviation beyond the Internet, where it is common, but not universal.\n\nWith the invention of calculators and computers, it has become easy to calculate a rating for players based on the results of their games. Commonly used rating systems include the Elo and Glicko rating systems. Rating systems generally predict the probability that one player will defeat another player and use this prediction to rank a players strength.\n\nThe EGF implementation of the Elo rating system attempts to establish rough correspondence between ratings and kyu/dan ranks. This is done by varying some of the components of the Elo formula to achieve a close match to the adjacent table. The probability (S) that the player with the lower rating, player A, wins against a higher rated player B is given by the formula\n\n\nThe probability that player B wins is calculated as\n\nThe new rating of a player is calculated as\n\n\nK is varied depending on the rating of the players, because of the low confidence in (lower) amateur ratings (high fluctuation in the outcome) but high confidence in pro ratings (stable, consistent play). K is 116 at rating 100 and 10 at rating 2700\n\nIn the EGF system, the Elo points won by the winner almost equal the ones lost by the loser and the maximum points movement is the constant K (from above). However, there is a slight inflationary mechanism built into the ratings adjustment after each game to compensate for the fact that newcomers usually bring fewer ELO points into the pool than they take out with them when they cease active play. Other Elo-flavor ratings such as the AGA, IGS, and DGS systems use maximum likelihood estimation to adjust ratings, so those systems are anchored by prior distributions rather than by attempting to ensure that the gain/loss of ratings is zero sum.\n\nA variation of the Elo rating system called WHR ('Whole History Rating'), differs from standard Elo in that it retroactively re-rates players based on their entire history after each new result is added, rather than incrementally changing a player's rating on a game-by-game basis. This involves more intense computation than other methods, but is claimed that \"in comparison to Elo, Glicko, TrueSkill, and decayed-history algorithms, WHR produces better predictions.\". The website Go Ratings implements the WHR method to calculate global player rankings.\n\nThe ratings of players are generally measured using the game results of Go competitions and tournaments. Most clubs and countries maintain their own ratings, as do Go playing servers. Go tournaments in Europe use the EGF Official ratings.\n\nIn a small club, ranks may be decided informally and adjusted manually when players consistently win or lose. In larger clubs or country wide rating systems, a mathematical ranking system is generally easier to maintain. Players can then be promoted or demoted based on their strength as calculated from their wins and losses.\n\nMost Go playing servers use a mathematical rating system to keep track of the playing strength of their members. Such ratings may or may not be translated to kyu and dan ranks for the convenience of the players.\n\nPlayer pools that do not regularly mix (such as different countries, or sub-groups on online servers) often result in divergent playing strengths compared to the same nominal rank level of other groups. Players asked to give their rank will therefore often qualify it with \"in my country\" or \"on this Internet server\".\n\nThe rating indirectly represents the probability of winning an even game against other rated players. This probability depends only on the difference between the two players' ratings, but its magnitude varies greatly from one implementation to another. The American Go Association adopted a uniform standard deviation of 104, i.e. slightly more than one rank, while the European Go Federation ratings have a sliding standard of deviation from 200 for beginners down to 70 for top players. The IGS has a fixed standard deviation for all levels of play, but a non-standard distribution. The following table displays some of the differences:\n\nWhile in chess a player must take some risks to avoid a draw, in Go draws (jigo) are either impossible (with non-integer komi, such as 6.5 points, as is common) or less likely in the case of integer komi. Also, an average game of Go lasts for 240 moves (120 moves in chess terms), compared to 40 in chess, so there are more opportunities for a weaker player to make sub-optimal moves. The ability to transform a small advantage into a win increases with playing strength. Due to this ability, stronger players are more consistent in their results against weaker players and will generally score a higher percentage of wins against opponents at the same rank distance.\n\n"}
{"id": "43669839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43669839", "title": "Horsburgh v NZ Meat Processors Industrial Union of Workers", "text": "Horsburgh v NZ Meat Processors Industrial Union of Workers\n\nHorsburgh v NZ Meat Processors Industrial Union of Workers CA102/86 [1988] NZCA 75; [1988] 1 NZLR 698; (1988) 2 NZELC 96,397; (1988) ERNZ Sel Cas 193 is a cited case in New Zealand law allowing (albeit through the backdoor) compensation for non financial loss, for example for distress. It effectively overruled Addis v Gramophone Co Ltd [1909] AC 488 in NZ case law.\n\nHorsburgh was a member of the local meat workers union. In order to support its striking members at a nearby plant, the union required all its members to contribute to a $10 a week strike fund. Horsburgh refused to make these payments, resulting in his expulsion from the union, and due to compulsory unionism at the time, he then lost his job. It was later discovered that the strike levy was illegal to collect, due to it not being first subject to a secret ballot.\n\nHe sued the union for loss of income, as well as for the distress for losing his job.\n\nThe court of appeal awarded him $8,000 for the distress of losing his job. This was on the basis that this case involved not an employment issue, but for wrongly being expelled from the union, a tenuous basis, considering the loss of his union membership did result in him losing his job.\n"}
{"id": "6962430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6962430", "title": "Hudson v. Craft", "text": "Hudson v. Craft\n\nHudson v. Craft (, 1949) is a United States court case defining how the court defines consent as a defense to an intentional harm.\n\nThe Defendants were conducting a carnival where one of the concessions was a boxing exhibition, which was conducted in violation of statutory provisions, distributed prizes and prize money to the contestants, and no license had been issued. The Plaintiff engaged in a boxing match after being solicited by the Defendants and thereby consented to the contest.\n\nThe central holding was that an individual cannot consent to an illegal act. Therefore, regardless of whether or not the two individual fighters consented, the promoter could still be held liable for damages.\n\nThe court did not make a direct ruling to the suit between the two boxers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2375200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2375200", "title": "Hypatian Codex", "text": "Hypatian Codex\n\nThe Hypatian Codex (also known as \"Hypatian Chronicle\", \"Ipatiev Chronicle\", ; ; ) is a compendium of three chronicles: the Primary Chronicle, Kiev Chronicle, and Galician-Volhynian Chronicle. It is the most important source of historical data for southern Rus'. \n\nThe codex was rediscovered in what is today Ukraine in 1617 and then copied by monks in Kyiv in 1621. It was re-discovered yet again in the 18th century at the Hypatian Monastery of Kostroma by the Russian historian Nikolay Karamzin. \n\nThe codex is the second oldest surviving manuscript of the Primary Chronicle, after the Laurentian Codex. The Hypatian manuscript dates back to ca. 1425, but it incorporates much precious information from the lost 12th-century Kievan and 13th-century Galician chronicles. The codex was possibly compiled at the end of the 13th century.\n\nSince 1810, the codex has been preserved in the Russian National Library, St Petersburg. The language of this work is Old Church Slavonic with many East Slavisms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42482975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42482975", "title": "I. M. Rașcu", "text": "I. M. Rașcu\n\nI. M. Rașcu (most common rendition of Ion Rașcu; – 1971) was a Romanian poet of Symbolist verse, cultural promoter, comparatist, and schoolteacher. He is remembered for his participation in the Romanian Symbolist movement: a founder and co-editor, with Alfred Hefter-Hidalgo, of \"Versuri și Proză\" magazine, he became one of the leading Symbolist figures in his native city of Iași before 1914. In later years, he lived more discreetly as a scholar and educationist, earning both praise and opprobrium for his sternness and erudition.\n\nA Catholic convert and devotional writer, Rașcu spent several years in France. He made a belated attempt to revive Symbolism with the 1930s magazine \"Îndreptar\", where he also published his Catholic prose and fragments of his work in literary history. He became noted, and challenged, for his critical reviews of Mihai Eminescu's poetry. His late works in travel literature document his increasing isolation and monastic fervor, as well as his dedication to Saint Thérèse of Lisieux. In his final years, Rașcu returned to literary life as an authority on, and biographer of, his Symbolist colleagues.\n\nRașcu's maternal great-grandfather was the French upper class tailor Frédéric Ortgies (described in one of Rașcu's poems as having \"a rosy and melancholy face\"). Originally from Picardy, he settled in Moldavia before its 1859 merger into Romania. Ortgies' daughter, Eugenia, married Ioan Tudor Curie (or Curius; 1816–1898), an actor and French-language teacher from Wallachia. Curie had once been the most promising graduate of the Wallachian Philharmonic Society, and friend of its founder Costache Aristia, before leaving to join the French Foreign Legion. He settled in Iași, where he played a minor part in the 1848 upheaval, and afterward spent years in exile. Their daughter, Clelia (1865–1950), was Rașcu's mother. His father, born in Odobești, worked as an art and calligraphy teacher. The couple also had three daughters, of whom Clelia (1897–1944) went on to marry University of Iași physician Emil Hurmuzache; and another son, Gheorghe, who made his living as a teacher of geography.\n\nAlso an Iași native, Ion Rașcu was raised Romanian Orthodox, but later in life returned to the religion of his French forefathers, joining the Roman Catholic Church. In Catholic circles, he was remembered as \"one of our great converts\", on par with missionary Vladimir Ghika and author Mariu Theodorian-Carada. As argued by literary historian Paul Cernat, this evidenced a \"propensity toward 'alternative' spirituality and a tense relationship with the dominant Orthodox religion\", also found among Symbolists who turned to Theosophy, heresy, or occult practices. Rașcu was entirely committed to his new faith: he is described by critic George Călinescu as a Catholic of \"fanatical correctness\", \"discretion\", and \"great suaveness\", and by philologist Adrian Marino as one who suggested \"all sorts of anachronisms\", \"fervent and very fanatical\", but \"distinguished\", \"of an entirely Westernized urbanity\". He is also remembered for his withdrawals into mystical contemplation, and for his adhering to an austere dress code in his daily life.\n\nRașcu attended primary and secondary school in Iași, living with his family on the outskirts of that city. As he himself recounted in later years, the monotonous atmosphere of the Moldavian \"fin de siècle\", the sentiment that something was about to happen \"in the world at large\", made a mark on him: \"Perhaps it is that we waited for the age to weight less on us, but to shake us more violently.\" Rașcu debuted in 1905 in the student review \"Spre Lumină\". His contributions were a poem, expressing Rașcu's sadness over the recent death of his father, a conventional sonnet, and a brief overview of Aromanian folkloric laments. He sent additional pieces to the popular magazine \"Duminica\", using the pen names \"I. Cimbru-Frăgar\", \"I. Ieronim\", \"I. Rașcu-Ieronim\", \"I. Ieronim-Cimbru\", and some variations of these. As \"Evandru\", he also contributed to the political newspaper \"Opinia\", owned by Alexandru Bădărău. Graduating from the National High School in 1909, he took a diploma in Letters from the University of Iași.\n\nRașcu's debut as a Symbolist promoter came in 1911, when he founded at Iași the review \"Versuri\" (\"Verse\"). Reappearing as \"Versuri și Proză\" (\"Verse and Prose\") from 1912 to 1916, it was to be Moldavia's longest-lived Symbolist magazine. Rașcu, the chief editor, often signed his contributions with pseudonyms, introducing himself as \"M. Zopir\", \"I.M.R.\", \"Ev.\", or just \"E\". He was seconded by Alfred Hefter-Hidalgo, who was the group's theoretician and staff critic.\n\nHeavily influenced by the Symbolist critic Ovid Densusianu, \"Versuri și Proză\" was quite successful in attracting other Symbolist authors: Mihail Cruceanu, N. Davidescu, Benjamin Fondane, Al. T. Stamatiad, Ion Minulescu, Claudia Millian, Nicolae Budurescu, Eugeniu Sperantia, Tudor Arghezi, Adrian Maniu, Barbu Solacolu, Mihail Codreanu, Dragoș Protopopescu, Constantin T. Stoika, Perpessicius, Felix Aderca, Alexandru Vițianu, and (with early selections from his influential \"Plumb\") George Bacovia. More senior Symbolists such as Densusianu and Alexandru Macedonski were also present, as were the generic modernists Hortensia Papadat-Bengescu, Cezar Petrescu, F. Brunea-Fox, and Vasile Demetrius.\n\nIași being a city of traditionalist tastes, and primarily a center for the ruralizing Poporanist movement, this Symbolist activation caused a stir. As an additional mark of rebellion, Densusianu was invited by Rașcu in Iași, where he gave a public lecture against Poporanist tenets. The magazine's printing shop put out copies of Rașcu's own poetry, as \"Sub cupole de vis\" (\"Under the Domes of Reverie\"). In the closing months of 1912, Rașcu and Hefter-Hidalgo also contributed to \"Simbolul\", the Symbolist review put out in Bucharest by Tristan Tzara. Rașcu popularized the work of French poets and novelists, beginning with his translations of Albert Samain's \"Polyphème\" and Marcel Schwob's \"La croisade des infants\". Hefter-Hidalgo, whose Romanian Jewish ethnicity underlined the tolerant and non-traditional character of \"Versuri și Proză\", introduced the public to Remy de Gourmont, Stuart Merrill, Gustave Kahn, and the erotic works of Pierre Louÿs.\n\nThe Poporanist reaction bordered on censorship. Among the rival literary columnists, August Scriban referred to Rașcu as \"ruddy, long-haired and repulsive\", while Gheorghe Bogdan-Duică dismissed \"Versuri și Proză\" as the \"insolence of the impotent\". After public readings from Rașcu and Codreanu's poetry, unknown authors resorted to putting out a parody of \"Versuri și Proză\", with so-called \"verse from the netherworld\". According to Călinescu, these parodists were \"talentless\", but also showed \"common sense\".\n\nIn actuality, \"Versuri și Proză\" was not entirely opposed to traditionalist literature. According to Cernat, it should be read as a \"non-exclusive\" publication, \"in a gradual—and discreet—evolution into modernism.\" It even dedicated special issues to Poporanists such as Garabet Ibrăileanu, Mihail Sadoveanu, and Octav Băncilă, and was thus more mainstream than two other Iași reviews (Eugen Relgis' \"Fronda\", Isac Ludo's \"Absolutio\"). At times, the opposition was explicit. Writing for \"Versuri și Proză\" in 1914, Hefter-Hidalgo ridiculed the more radical, post-Symbolist, movements, with reference to Futurism or Simultanism, but explored the possibility of staging in Iași the Expressionist work of Frank Wedekind. Hefter and Rașcu both set out to distinguish between the Decadent movement and Symbolism. Hefter acknowledged the traditionalist dislike for decadent themes and their surfacing in Symbolism, but contended that Symbolist art was fundamentally new, idealistic, and infinitely beautiful. For his part, Rașcu objected to what he saw as exaggerated Poporanism, noting that the \"sickness\" of Decadence was not necessarily bad, since: \"Not all sick things are repugnant.\"\n\nMarginally affiliated with Densusianu's \"Vieața Nouă\" circle before 1915, Rașcu had his work published in various other Symbolist periodicals in the capital city, Bucharest. His work was taken up by \"Noua Revistă Română\", \"Avântul\", \"Farul\", and by Stamatiad's \"Grădina Hesperidelor\". He visited and studied in France during 1912 and 1914, then returned to Romania for employment as a substitute teacher of French in Iași, Brăila, Tecuci, and Bârlad. His second volume, the poem \"Orașele dezamăgite\" (\"Jaded Cities\"), came out in Iași in 1914.\n\nAfter the outbreak of World War I, and during the two years of Romanian neutrality, \"Versuri și Proză\" affiliated with the pro-Entente and Francophile movement, finally obtaining its acceptance by the cultural mainstream. Just after the war's end, in 1919, Rașcu received a full teaching position at Unirea High School in Focșani. While there, he founded and led a student literary society, named in honor of Grigore Alexandrescu, and put out its yearbook, noted for its reviews of 19th-century Romantic poetry and its encouragement of intellectual debates between students. \"Gândirea\" magazine condoned his efforts in this respect, while also noting that Rașcu and his students made a habit of trekking through \"the less visited parts\" of Vrancea County, following in the footsteps of mountaineer Bucura Dumbravă. According to linguist Iorgu Iordan, his was \"a tireless and completely selfless work\", all the more admirable considering that Focșani \"was not quite the lover of art and literature\". In addition to such contributions, Rașcu himself published his own textbook and chrestomathy of Romanian literature.\n\nAccording to Virgil Huzum, a poet and Unirea graduate, the school could remember Rașcu \"with justified pride.\" Nevertheless, Rașcu was not happy teaching in Focșani: as Iordan writes, his sternness was not well received by his students, and, when his grading system was challenged by his superiors, he resigned from his position altogether. Eventually, he relocated to Bucharest, where, from 1923 to 1933, he taught at Șincai Lyceum, and presided over its students' Society for the Study of Romanian Literature.\n\nReturning to France for a 1924 visit, Rașcu remained there on an extended study trip, from 1925 to 1929, and was a resident scholar of Nicolae Iorga's Romanian School in Fontenay-aux-Roses. He attended the College of Sorbonne, specializing in comparative literature and attending the courses of Fernand Baldensperger and Paul Hazard. His main interest was Mihai Eminescu, Romania's national poet, analyzed in comparison with French writers of his day. He inventoried such literary sources at the National Library, which he frequented on a regular basis. While Rașcu was still abroad, fellow writer Al. Lascarov-Moldovanu put out another selection of his poetry, the 1927 \"Neliniști\" (\"Unrests\").\n\nRașcu's time in France evidenced his commitment to Catholicism. For 9 days in August 1929, he secluded himself at the original Trappist monastery, the Abbey of La Trappe, in what was an effort to escape from the encroachment of modernity. In France, Rașcu experienced not just Catholic fervor, but, according to his own account, a personal miracle: he claimed that a statue of Saint Thérèse of Lisieux smiled upon him in Ville-d'Avray.\n\nReturning to public life in 1930, Rașcu launched the magazine \"Îndreptar\" (\"Rectifier\") with assistance from his old Symbolist friends Cruceanu and Sperantia, and with additional help from Huzum and Mia Frollo. It was also there that he published \"splinters\" from an incomplete Christian novel, as well as articles of literary history—sometimes as \"I.M.R.\", but usually as \"Evandru\". The review was hotly criticized by \"Gândirea\" ideologist Nichifor Crainic, who wrote off its attempts to revive Symbolism. Its \"exaggerated Francophilia\", Crainic claimed, clashed with the day's agenda, which involved \"searching for our [Romanian] selves at the deepest level\". Although an Orthodox theologian, Crainic still admired Rașcu's faith and his \"fine spiritual evolution\".\n\nAt \"Îndreptar\" and elsewhere, Rașcu published his finds on Eminescu, hypothesizing about the latter's sources of inspiration in modern French literature (particularly Lamartine and Gautier). These studies earned him accolades from the specialty press, but were also attacked by philologist Vladimir Streinu. According to Streinu, Rașcu's \"anthill\" of references only managed to show \"coincidences\" between Eminescu's poetry and the work of various French authors.\n\nRașcu refocused on his teaching career, and, in 1933, published the pamphlet \"Cum se dezorganizează învățământul\" (\"How They Are Breaking Education Apart\"). In 1934, his account of a pilgrimage to the shrine of Saint Thérèse in Lisieux was published in Bucharest, followed in 1935 by the poetry selection \"Vibrări\" (\"Vibrations\"). Also that year, he issued a monograph about Eminescu's view of Catholicism (\"Eminescu și catolicismul\"). It shows Rașcu being troubled by Eminescu's Orthodox background, and what it meant for his theoretical salvation.\n\nIn 1936, the Cluj review \"Gând Românesc\" put out as a volume Rașcu's literary study, comparing the work of Eminescu and Vasile Alecsandri (as \"Eminescu și Alecsandri\"). The essay \"Convingeri literare\" (\"Literary Convictions\") came out in 1937. Rașcu had by then moved to a teaching position at Mihai Viteazul National College, and, in 1938, put out a second Romanian literary textbook, \"Alte opere din literatura română\". The work pitted Rașcu against his former employer Iorga, whose hypotheses and impressions on the sources of Romantic literature it would not credit. In his review of the book, Iorga complained that Rașcu had displayed a \"harsh professorial\" attitude toward his own research.\n\nRașcu returned to poetry in 1939, with \"Renunțările luminoase\" (\"Luminous Renunciations\"). In 1943, at the height of World War II, Editura Cugetarea put out his \"Setea liniștei eterne\" (\"Thirsting for Eternal Serenity\"), which detailed his time at the La Trappe.\n\nRașcu survived the postwar imposition of a communist regime, but faded into obscurity. Leonte Răutu, the communist official in charge of cultural affairs, wrote him off in 1949 as \"a very inconsequential figure\" in Romanian literature. He returned to the spotlight in the late 1960s, when he helped researcher Mihail Straje document the pseudonymous work of himself and other Symbolists (such as Hefter-Hidalgo, Păstorel Teodoreanu, and Barbu Solacolu). At the time, a critical review of Rașcu's work was published by Constantin Ciopraga in the magazine \"Cronica\".\n\nHis own \"Amintiri și medalioane literare\" (\"Literary Memoirs and Medallions\"), comprising short biographies of his friends, was published in 1967, the same year as his definitive \"Poeme\" (\"Poems\"). He was also in correspondence with publisher Teodor Vârgolici, who published, at Editura Minerva, Rașcu's crowning critical study, the 1969 \"Eminescu și cultura franceză\" (\"Eminescu and French Culture\"). He died in Bucharest in late 1971.\n\nAs Călinescu suggests, I. M. Rașcu was a \"constant\" Symbolist, oriented toward a trademark \"provincial\", \"Sunday\" poetry, which mirrored his \"melancholy seclusion\" and \"sacred bucolic joys\". Cultural historian and critic Eugen Lovinescu summarizes Rașcu's poetry as \"asthenia\", \"projecting life beyond reality, into the realm of dreams, [...] the life of a bloodless ghost\". Critic Tudor Vianu reads Rașcu as mainly a Moldavian Symbolist, in line with Bacovia, Ștefan Petică, and Demostene Botez. In comparison with the \"rhetorical temperaments\" of the Wallachian Symbolist school, such authors proved to be \"natures of the interior\"; against Wallachian \"cosmopolitanism\", they held up an attachment to \"the tiny Moldavian \"târg\".\"\n\nHowever, as Lovinescu writes, such traits did not exempt Rașcu from exoticism and cosmopolitanism: along with Eugeniu Sperantia and Alexandru Gherghel, he \"made skillful use\" of the modernizing and \"decorative\" Romanian lexis favored by Densusianu at \"Vieața Nouă\". According to Cernat, Rașcu's early poems mainly feature \"Symbolist, Secessionist and Art Nouveau clichés\"; in his \"Orașele dezamăgite\", he merely adapted the scenery of Georges Rodenbach's \"Bruges-la-Morte\" to a Moldavian setting. His own poetic tropes were nostalgic, evoking the medieval atmosphere of castles, domes, crypts, galleys, but also parks and ponds. The effect of such poetry was, according to Lovinescu, \"academic\" and \"discoursive\", often \"prolix\", and only \"externally Symbolist\".\n\nRașcu's religious itineraries were unusual in the Romanian context, and not just for illustrating the Catholic option—a minority one in Romania. At the time of its publishing, Rașcu's homage to Saint Thérèse was hailed in the Catholic press as one of the \"few original works of religious inspiration\" (as opposed to sheer translations), and also the work of \"a talented poet\". Adrian Marino notes that, as time passed, Rașcu seemed \"more determined\" to settle into an absolute seclusion from the secular world. His Catholic writing evidenced \"such conviction\", \"that any suspicion becomes an undeserved insult\"—Rașcu seemed to Marino a modern-day \"Crusader\". Also according to Marino, \"Setea liniștei eterne\" was unwittingly amusing, \"candid\" and \"prudish\", particularly with its \"misogynistic\" commentary on the attire of female believers; however, Rașcu's \"dreamy and monkish temperament cannot fail to impress us.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "45175496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45175496", "title": "Jan Franco", "text": "Jan Franco\n\nJan Franco (active 1586–1611) was a physician, mathematician and astronomer who compiled almanacs. He was born in the village of Eersel in the Duchy of Brabant and studied medicine at the University of Leuven. He settled in Brussels to practice medicine and was given the freedom of the city. He was a practicing physician at least until 1594. As he had studied both medicine and mathematics, he was asked to calculate the ephemerides, for purposes of medical astrology. This led to his work as a compiler of almanacs from 1586 to 1611. From 1612 almanacs were printed on the basis of his drafts but completed for publication by his son, Jan Franco jr., and by Johannes Regius. As late as 1616 almanacs prepared by others were being sold on the strength of his name.\n\n"}
{"id": "47077393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47077393", "title": "LIDO", "text": "LIDO\n\nLIDO (Lightweight Information Describing Objects) is an XML schema for describing museum objects.\nIt is applicable to all kinds of objects: art, natural history, technology, cultural objects.\nLIDO is widely used for harvesting museum data in union catalogs, and as a preliminary step for converting to semantic formats like CIDOC CRM or EDM.\n\nThe LIDO specification is a publicly available XSD schema of relatively high complexity. Comprehensive introductions and overviews are available.\n\nIt was influenced by the following metadata standards and ontologies:\n\nA few tools are available for handling LIDO:\n"}
{"id": "50182159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50182159", "title": "Left wing politics in Croatia", "text": "Left wing politics in Croatia\n\nThe Croatian Left has consisted of a broad range of individuals, groups, and political parties who seek egalitarian, economic, social and cultural rights in Croatia. Left wing ideologies came to Croatia in the late 19 century during the Austria-Hungary regime. In 1894, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and Slavonia was formed. It was the first workers party in Croatia at the time. In the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes the leftist movement grew but it was suppressed by the royal government. In 1920, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia was proclaimed illegal and its sympathizers were brutally persecuted after winning a large number of positions in the local elections. During the 1920s, Stjepan Radić and his Croatian Peasant Party led a centre-left agrarianism and anty-royalist policy. They were the leading Croatian political party at the time. After the assassination of Radić in 1929, the Croatian Peasant Party was taken over by Vlatko Maček who enforced a more conservative and nationalist rhetoric. During the Socialist Yugoslavia era, the League of Communists of Yugoslavia was the only legal party in the country. In 1990, political plurality was restored and a number of left-wing parties emerged with the most notable one being the Social Democratic Party of Croatia.\n\nMarxist and socialist ideologies emerged in Croatia during the late 19th century while it was under the rule of the Austria-Hungary empire. In 1894, the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and Slavonia was formed. It was the first workers party of its kind in Croatia at the time. Its main ideology was Austromarxism so it mainly attracted local German settlers in Croatia. In 1910, Josip Broz Tito was a member of the party. Due to its Austromarxist ideology, the party was marginalised and banned after World War I started.\n\nWhen the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was created after World War I, the different social democratic parties that had existed in Austria-Hungary, Serbia and Montenegro called for a unification of their parties. In 1919, a congress was held in Belgrade where Bolshevik influence was introduced by soldiers who during the war had been captured by Russian forces and had experienced the October Revolution. It resulted in the creation of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. In 1920, the Communists won a large number of seats in the local election which resulted in their banning by the royal government. It was then when the Communist members and sympathisers started working underground until 1941.\n\nDuring the 1920s, Stjepan Radić and his Croatian Peasant Party were the leading political force amongst the Croatian population in the kingdom. Radić led an agrarianist, anti-royalist and anti-clerical policy. His politics at the time were considered to be left-leaning. In 1929, Radić was assassinated in Parliament, after which the King Alexander I of Yugoslavia abolished the constitution, dissolved parliament, and declared a royal dictatorship, changing the country into the first Yugoslavia and oppressing national sentiments. After the death of Radić, Vlatko Maček became president of the Croatian Peasant Party and he enforced a more conservative and nationalist policy which was mostly aimed at creating an Independent Croatian nation-state while social issues were put aside.\n\nDuring World War II, while the Nazi puppet controlled Independent State of Croatia and Italy occupied modern Croatia territory, the only anti-fascist organised movement were the Yugoslav partisans who were created and led by the Communist Party of Yugoslavia and their commander Josip Broz Tito. In 1945, after the partisans won the war, Socialist Yugoslavia was established with a one-party system in which the Communist Party of Yugoslavia was the only legal political party. From 1945 to 1989, political plurality was suppressed in Yugoslavia and the League of Communists controlled the country with their bureaucratic-dogmatic approach.\n\nIt was during the era of Socialist Yugoslavia that the Socialist Republic of Croatia enacted a number of progressive and left-wing reforms such as the emancipation of women, egalitarianism, creation of a welfare state, universal health care, workers' self-management etc.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Socialist Yugoslavia was on the edge of breakup after Slobodan Milošević started his anti-bureaucratic revolution and used Serbian nationalism as a tool to achieve domination in the country. This movement sparked Croatian nationalism which would result in the rise of right-wing populism in Croatia.\n\nIn 1989, the League of Communists of Croatia declared that the first democratic elections would be held next year and that political plurality was restored. The first newly established left-wing party were the Social Democrats of Croatia. It was a social democratic-oriented party led by Antun Vujić, a Croatian Spring dissident. For the 1990 elections, he joined the coalition of liberal and moderate conservative parties called the Coalition of People's Accord. Vujčić won a seat in the parliament but the coalition won only 11 seats.\n\nAfter the League of Communists of Croatia withdrew from the 14th SKJ party congress in January 1990 under the leadership of Ivica Račan, they decided to pursue a path of reformation. The party was renamed to League of Communists of Croatia-Party of Democratic Change. For the 1990 elections, Ivica Račan was not able to defeat the emerging right wing party of Franjo Tuđman, the Croatian Democratic Union. In the elections, Ivica Račan and his party won only 73 seats in the parliament while Franjo Tuđman won 205. Before the elections, Ivica Račan changed the electoral system for the benefit of his party but it backfired and the Croatian Democratic Union won a great majority of seats with only 41.76% of the popular vote. After the elections, numerous League of Communist members left the party and went to join the party of Franjo Tuđman. It is thought that about 70,000 former communists joined the Croatian Democratic Union.\n\nOn 3 November 1990, the League of Communists of Croatia held a convention where they changed their name to the Social Democratic Party of Croatia. They accepted a social-democratic platform with the rejection of socialism and Marxism. They also published the November Declaration where they condemned all the crimes that their party committed during the era of Federal Yugoslavia.\n\nCroatia declared independence on 25 June 1991 and at the time the war in Croatia was starting to heat up against the self-proclaimed Serb parastate called Republic of Serbian Krajina. Since the Social Democratic Party got a lot of votes from Serbs in that self-proclaimed territory, it meant that Ivica Račan was about to face a great downfall in popular support.\n\nFrom 1991 to 1992, the Social Democratic Party and Social Democrats of Croatia were a part of the National Union government which was created by Franjo Tuđman during the first stages of the war.\n\nThe 2nd elections took place on 2 August 1992. The president and parliament were both elected on the same day. For the presidential elections, the Social Democratic Party supported Silvije Degen, president of the Socialist Party of Croatia, a minor left-wing party. Silvije Degen finished 5th with 4,1% of the popular vote while Franjo Tuđman won with a majority of 56.73% of the vote. Antun Vujić was also the candidate for president but finished last with only 0,7% of the vote. On the parliamentary elections, the Social Democratic Party won only 3 seats with 5.52% of the popular vote butgot 11 thanks to the Serb minority seats in parliament which were guaranteed by the constitution. The Social Democratic Union won 1.2% which was a great result for such a party. The Social Democratic Union was led by the famous economist Branko Horvat and the votes were a result of support from the ethnic Serbs living in the government-controlled territory. The Social Democrats of Croatia won only 0,6% of the vote.\n\nAfter Franjo Tuđman won the presidential and parliamentary elections with a big majority, he easily imposed his will on the government controlled institutions and companies. That era is commonly known in Croatia as Tudjmanism. It commonly refers to the corrupt system of privatization, nepotism in appointing personnel to high state functions, anti-liberalism, international isolation, embracing of extreme Croatian nationalism, state-controlled media and abuse of human rights.\n\nDuring that time, Ivica Račan and the Social Democratic Party tried to get rid of the perception that they were the successor party of the League of Communists. Račan tried to maintain good relations with Tuđman and at the same time act as an opposition to him. This, of course, did not resonate with the public and they stayed marginalised. The opposition at the time was ignored by the state-controlled mainstream media. In the Croatian Parliament, the most aggressive Tuđman critic was Vladimir Bebić, a famous left-wing politician from the Alliance of Primorje-Gorski Kotar.\n\nIn 1994, a former dissident and high ranking communist politician, Mika Tripalo founded Social Democratic Action of Croatia. His goal was to unite all the Croatian left parties. After a heated polemic with Ivica Račan, the Social Democratic Party declined the invitation because they wanted to become the only leading left party. The same year, Antun Vujić joined the Social Democratic Party and his party of the Social Democrats of Croatia merged with them.\n\nThe Social Democratic Party supported Stjepan Mesić and Josip Manolić in 1994 when they tried to split a number of parliamentary members from the Croatian Democratic Union in order to spark new elections. They were fierce opponents of the Croatian aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina which was organised by Franjo Tuđman and Gojko Šušak. The plan eventually failed with Mesić and Manolić becoming marginalised.\n\nThe third Croatian parliamentary elections were held in October 1995. Franjo Tuđman held the election a year early because he wanted to use the euphoria which was present in the country due to the success of Operation Storm. The Social Democratic Party won 8.93% of the popular vote and got 10 seats in parliament. The Social Democratic Union which was now allied with Vladimir Bebić won 3.24% of the vote but did not enter Parliament. Miko Tripalo's Social Democratic Action won only 1.57% of the vote. A year later, Miko Tripalo passed away and the party was taken over by Silvije Degen but it slowly faded into obscurity.\n\nIn 1997, former minister of culture in SR Croatia and Vice-President of the Presidency of SFR Yugoslavia, Stipe Šuvar founded the Socialist Labour Party of Croatia. It was the first democratic socialist party in modern Croatia. Šuvar was a strong critic of the Tuđman regime and he spoke about the war crimes that the Croatian Army committed after liberating Kninska Krajina in 1995. While dining in a restaurant with his wife in Zagreb, Šuvar was brutally attacked and suffered heavy injuries because of his political views.\n\nFor the 1997 presidential elections, the Social Democratic Party supported Zdravko Tomac as their candidate. Zdravko Tomac was a Croatian nationalist with social tendencies and Ivica Račan used him through the 1990s in order to get votes from centrist or right-wing voters. It proved useful in a short run but it failed on a long-term scale. Zdravko Tomac finished 2nd in the elections with 458,172 votes or 21.0%. Tuđmdan dominated the elections with 61.4% of the vote but Tomac defeated Vlado Gotovac, a candidate for the main opposition party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party who finished 3rd.\n\nAfter the presidential elections, it was clear that the Social Democratic Party became the main opposition party and at that time, they started planning a coalition with the Croatian Social Liberal Party for the upcoming parliamentary elections. In 1998, the president of the Social-Liberal party Dražen Budiša and Ivica Račan signed an agreement in which they committed themselves to enter a coalition. After further negotiations, it was decided that the Social Democrats would be the main party with the influence of 2:1 on the candidacy lists. At the same time, they also planned a second coalition block which included 4 parties. It was a coalition of the Croatian Peasant Party, the Istrian Democratic Assembly, the Croatian People's Party – Liberal Democrats and the Liberal Party. Social Democratic Action of Croatia also joined that bloc but it had no influence.\n\nThe idea was that those two coalitions would run separately in the elections and later join forces. In 1999, the Croatian Democratic Union had low support. After a decade of destructive and clientelistic politics, they were faced with the prospect of losing the elections for the first time in modern history. There was a fear at the time that Franjo Tuđman would not allow the new liberal-left coalition to seize power if they won, a view which was shared by Ivica Račan. After Franjo Tuđman passed away in December 1999, the political stage was opened to change.\n\nOn 3 January 2000, the liberal-left coalition of the Social Democratic Party and the Croatian Social Liberal Party won the parliamentary election. They got 38.7% of the popular vote while their second coalition of four parties won 14.7% of the vote. The two coalitions combined got 96 seats in the parliament while the Croatian Democratic Union won only 46 seats. Those elections were seen as historic and expectations were high for the new government. Ivica Račan became prime minister and later the constitution was changed so that the Republic of Croatia was transformed from a semi-presidential system to a parliamentary system. It meant that the President of Croatia lost most of his powers while the prime minister became most influential.\n\nThe first problems for the new government came after the presidential election in February 2000 when the governing candidate Dražen Budiša lost to Stjepan Mesić. The problem was not in the election of Stjepan Mesić but in the defeat of Budiša. Budiša, although a president of the Social-Liberal party, was a self-declared conservative and nationalist with a pragmatic approach in order to reach power. His main goal was to become president of Croatia, and after losing it, he became frustrated and started obstructing his own government.\n\nThe Račan government is regarded with mixed opinions. During his reign, a lot of pre-election promises were neglected such as the investigation of illegal privatisation processes during the 1990s, de-Tudjmanisation, bringing back the money taken from the country, high employment, etc. Račan himself said after becoming prime minister that he and the coalition weren't ready to take control of the country.\n\nCroatia became open to the world during Račan, and it brought in fresh inflows of capital which helped jump-start Croatia's GDP growth, which amounted to around 5% per year but during that time the unemployment rate grew to a record high. In January 2002, the number of unemployed was a staggering 415,352 people or 24.0% of the population. Rača also began the construction of the A1 highway which was a major project but it advanced very slowly.\n\nThe new government also faced right-wing extremism when the ICTY indictments came for the Croatian generals but Račan tried to satisfy both sides in that process which failed miserably. In 2001, the famous Mirko Norac incident occurred when 100,000 people protested against the government in Split. He was prosecuted in Rijeka at the end. In 2001, the indictment came for Ante Gotovina and Račan tried to delay it. It resulted in the escape of Gotovina to exile which lasted until 2005 and it hurt Croatia's chances of entering the European Union. Till today it is unknown if Račan deliberately allowed Gotovina to escape. In 2002, when the indictment for Janko Bobetko came, Račan already had an unstable majority in the government and he feared the right-wing. He rejected the indictment and faced international isolation at that point. After Bobetkos death in 2003, the indictment was dropped and Croatia continued its negotiation process with the EU.\n\nRačans government was notorious for its instability and heterogeneity. He led a five-party coalition which gave him little space to navigate. Račan was always careful of what he was saying and had to satisfy all of his political partners. His first crisis came in the summer of 2001 when Dražen Budiša spoke out against the indictment of Ante Gotovina. It was a populist move from Budiša who wanted only to justify his own persona as a conservative and patriot. Budiša resigned as president of the Social-Liberal party in July 2001 and gave Račan some breathing time.\n\nThe big coalition split came after Budiša was re-elected as president of the Social-Liberals in February 2002. The dispute with him and Račan continued and it resulted in Budiša leaving the coalition in July 2002. Jozo Radoš, general secretary of the Social-Liberal party decided to stay with Račan so he split with Budiša and gave Račan the majority for creating a new cabinet which was formed on 30 July 2002.\n\nIn the new cabinet, Račan's main partner was Zlatko Tomčić, president of the social conservative Croatian Peasant Party. Until the end of his term, Račans main goal was to keep the coalition functioning which resulted in a pragmatic government that was destined to lose elections.\n\nIn November 2003, the Social Democratic Party suffered a big loss at the parliamentary elections. the Social-Democrats won 43 seats in parliament or 560,593 votes while the Croatian Democratic Union returned to power with a staggering number of 840,692 votes or 66 seats in the parliament. Račan accepted his defeat on the night of the elections and returned to the opposition.\n\nAfter the new liberal-left government took power in 2000, the leftist parties and organisations were given more breathing space but they were still marginalised in the mainstream media which was still under mostly state control and left to be controlled by right-wing and conservative editors.\n\nExcept the ruling Social Democratic Party, the remaining opposition left parties were the Socialist Labour Party of Croatia of Stipe Šuvar and the Social Democratic Union which was notable only thanks to Vladimir Bebić. Both of them failed miserably in the 2000 and 2003 parliamentary elections.\n\nStipe Šuvar would give an interview from time to time but he was mostly ignored by the mass media. His book which spoke about politics in the early Croatian state, \"The Croatian merry-go-round\" in 2003 was a hit and shortly after the 2nd edition came. He was always admired as an honest politician even by people who disagree with his politics. He resigned as president of the Socialist Labour Party and passed away shortly after in June 2004. After his death, part of the members left the party and founded a separate party called Socialist Party of Croatia – Left Alternative. It remained marginalised.\n\nAnother minor left party was the Croatian Social Democrats who were formed in 2004. They didn't gain attention until 2010 when they were joined by Ivica Pančić. He was a member of parliament for the Social Democratic Party and former minister of war veterans in the Račan government. The Croatian Social Democrats remained a parliamentary party for a year thanks to Pančić but they vanished after the parliamentary elections in 2011.\n\nIn April 2007, Ivica Račan passed away and was replaced by a new and young president, Zoran Milanović. The Croatian prime minister and president of the Croatian Democratic Union at that time, Ivo Sanader, had a term which was filled with corruption scandals so the Social Democratic Party was expected to win the 2007 parliamentary elections with independent politician Ljubo Jurčić as the prime minister candidate. Ultimately, the Social Democratic Party won 56 seats in parliament while the Croatian Democratic Union won 66 seats. None of the two parties had a majority of 77 seats so they began the negotiations process with the Social Liberal Party and the Peasant party which were needed for the majority formation. A few days after the elections, Zora Milanović removed Ljubo Jurčić from the position of prime minister and put himself there so that he can negotiate the coalition formation process. In December 2007, the Liberals and Peasants decided to form a government with the Croatian Democratic Union and it formally meant that the Social Democrats lost the elections for the 2nd time in a row.\n\nAt the beginning of 2008, the global financial crisis hit Croatia and the economy started to deteriorate. The support for Ivo Sanader started increasingly to fade away. On 1 July 2009, Ivo Sanader resigned as prime minister for personal reasons and was replaced by Jadranka Kosor. At that moment it was clear that the Croatian Democratic Union was going to lose the next elections.\n\nThe final blow for the right-wing government came in December 2010 when Ivo Sanader was acquitted for stealing money from state institutions while being prime minister and was arrested in Austria after trying to avoid the charges. All of this gave momentum for Zoran Milanović. The Social Democrats were sure of winning.\n\nIn January 2010, the Social Democratic Party candidate for Croatian president Ivo Josipović won the 2009-10 presidential elections. It was the first time in modern Croatian history that the Social Democrats had their own president. Ivo Josipović defeated Milan Bandić in the second round of elections. Bandić was a former high-ranking member of the Social Democratic Party and mayor of Zagreb. He left the party in 2009 after declaring his run for president and after that, the Social Democrats lost control of Zagreb.\n\nIn March 2010, Dragutin Lesar, a famous trade union organizer and a member of parliament who left the social-liberal Croatian People's Party in 2008, founded his own party called Croatian Labourists – Labour Party. It was a left-wing party which was determined to fight for labor rights. Due to the high profile of its president, it gained considerable public attention and became well known.\n\nOn 23 November 2010, the Social Democratic Party, Croatian People's Party, Istrian Democratic Assembly and the Croatian Party of Pensioners signed a coalition called the Kukuriku coalition for the upcoming parliamentary elections.\n\nThe year 2011 saw a number of protests which were aimed against the conservative Kosor government. The so-called \"Facebook protests\" and the protests related to the indictment of Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markač in the ICTY sparked a massive uproar that was never seen in modern Croatia. This all made it easy for the liberal-left Kukuriku coalition to win the elections.\n\nOn 4 December 2011, the Kukuriku coalition led by the Social Democratic Party and Zoran Milanović as its chief, won the 2011 parliamentary elections with ease and crushed the Croatian Democratic Union. The Kukuriku coalition won a majority of 81 seats in parliament while the Croatian Democratic Union won only 47 seats. On 23 December, the Cabinet of Zoran Milanović formally took power in Croatia and his cabinet was also the youngest cabinet in the same period, with an average age of 48.\n"}
{"id": "1524604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1524604", "title": "List of countries by level of military equipment", "text": "List of countries by level of military equipment\n\nThis is a list of countries by level of military equipment, including naval ships, fighter aircraft and nuclear weapons. This list is indicative only, as strict comparisons cannot accurately be made.\n\nStates marked 'TC' are widely considered technologically capable of wielding, operating or developing nuclear weapons, however are signatories of the NPT and are not known to possess any at the current moment. Japan, South Korea and Poland are generally considered \"de facto\" nuclear states due to their believed ability to wield nuclear weapons within 1 to 3 years.South Africa produced six nuclear weapons in the 1980s, but dismantled them in the early 1990s.South Africa signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1991.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35770964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35770964", "title": "Mandurugo", "text": "Mandurugo\n\nThe Mandurugo is a mythical being from Philippine folklore, similar to a vampire.\n\nA variety of \"Aswang\" (Filipino shapeshifter), the Mandurugo resembles a vampire. They are usually young and beautiful women by day, but develop wings and long, sharp tongues by night, which they use to either make cuts in a man's neck, or prick the inside of his mouth while kissing him to obtain blood. The stories, popular to Tagalog and Bicol speakers, have many variations. Sometimes the Mandurugo marries unsuspecting men to prey upon them, or may just select one husband, using him as a cover for her blood drinking activities, flying to other villages to feed.\n\n\"The Girl With Many Loves\" is one popular tale. A young, beautiful woman marries at age sixteen. Her husband, described as an over-weight youth, withers away to bones in less than a year. After he dies, the woman marries again and again with the same result, until she reaches her fourth husband. The fourth husband, fearing the same fate as his predecessors, is afraid to sleep at night and holds a knife in his hand. A little after midnight, the man feels something over him and then a prick on his neck. He stabs at the creature on top of him and hears a loud screech and the flapping of wings. The next day, his wife is found dead not far from the house with a knife wound in her chest.\n\nIn post World War II Philippines, vampirism was a hot topic.The Roman Catholic Church had a major influence on the film industry all over the globe. Films such as The Vampire People (1966) were the product of vampire folklore and mainstream culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "606290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606290", "title": "Merseyside Maritime Museum", "text": "Merseyside Maritime Museum\n\nThe Merseyside Maritime Museum is a museum based in the city of Liverpool, Merseyside, England, UK. It is part of National Museums Liverpool and an Anchor Point of ERIH, The European Route of Industrial Heritage. Opened in 1980 and expanded in 1986, the museum occupies warehouse block D at the Albert Dock, along with the Piermaster's House, Canning Half Tide Dock and Canning Graving Docks.\n\nThe city’s seafaring heritage is brought to life within the historic Albert Dock. The museum’s collections reflect the international importance of Liverpool as a gateway to the world, including its role in the transatlantic slave trade and emigration, the merchant navy and the RMS \"Titanic\". The UK Border Agency National Museum, 'Seized! The Border and Customs uncovered' is located in the basement gallery of the building.\n\n"}
{"id": "440217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=440217", "title": "Monster Manual", "text": "Monster Manual\n\nThe Monster Manual (MM) is the primary bestiary sourcebook for monsters in the \"Dungeons & Dragons\" (\"D&D\") fantasy role-playing game, first published in 1977 by TSR. It includes monsters derived from mythology and folklore, as well as creatures created specifically for \"D&D\". It describes each with game-specific statistics (such as the monster's level or number of hit dice), and a brief description of its habits and habitats. Most of the entries also have an image of the creature. Along with the \"Player's Handbook\" and \"Dungeon Master's Guide\", it is one of the three \"core rulebooks\" in most editions of the \"D&D\" game. Several editions of the \"Monster Manual\" have been released for each edition of \"D&D\". It was the first hardcover book of the \"D&D\" series. Due to the level of detail and illustration included, it was cited as a pivotal example of a new style of wargame books. Future editions would draw on various sources and act as a compendium of published monsters.\n\nThe first \"D&D\" boxed set did not have a separate \"Monster Manual\" but provided listings for monsters in \"Book 2: Monsters and Treasure\", one of the included booklets.\n\nAfter the series was separated into basic and advanced games, the basic game continued to be published in level-based boxes. Monsters of the appropriate level were included in the rulebooks for the various basic game sets (the \"Basic\", \"Expert\", \"Companion\", \"Master\", and \"Immortal\" sets). These monsters were later collected in the \"Rules Cyclopedia\", which replaced higher-level the boxed sets, and the \"Creature Catalogue\".\n\nThe first publication bearing the title \"Monster Manual\" was written by Gary Gygax and published in 1977 as a 108-page book. It was the first hardcover book for any \"D&D\" game, and the first of the core manuals published for the new \"Advanced Dungeons & Dragons\" (\"AD&D\") version of the game. The \"Monster Manual\" was a supplement to the game, intended to describe the standard monsters used in \"AD&D\". The book was a compendium of more than 350 monsters. Some monsters were new—others were compiled and revised from older sources such as \"Monsters and Treasure\", \"Greyhawk\", \"Blackmoor\", \"Eldritch Wizardry\", \"The Strategic Review\" and \"Dragon\" magazine. Each monster was listed alphabetically with a comprehensive description and full statistics and was, in many cases, supported by an illustration.\n\nThe cover of the original printing was illustrated by David C. Sutherland III. A softcover version of the \"Monster Manual\" was printed in the United Kingdom by Games Workshop in 1978. When the book was reprinted in 1985 it featured new cover art by Jeff Easley. The book remained little changed throughout its fifteen printings up to 1989. Minor changes during the print run included a cover art change to match a new logo and house style and some minor corrections introduced in the 1978 printings.\n\nThe first edition \"Monster Manual\" notably included topless portrayals of some of its female monsters, including the succubus, Type V demons, lamia, and sylph. \n\nThe 1st edition \"Monster Manual\" was reproduced as a premium reprint on July 17, 2012.\n\n\"Monster Manual\" was also reviewed by Don Turnbull who felt that \"this manual deserves a place on every \"D&D\" enthusiast's bookshelf\", and praised the explanatory text, stating that it \"amplifies, where necessary, [the game statistics] and the result is the most comprehensive listing of \"D&D\" monsters you will find, presented in a clarity which is unfortunately all too rare in other sources.\" Turnbull noted some minor printing errors and felt that some of the drawings were not as good as others, but felt that the book's quality \"is as high as one can reasonably expect in such a complex matter\". Turnbull concluded by saying \"I can do no more than heap high praise on the \"Monster Manual\". If every DM and every player didn't buy it, I would be very surprised. It is without doubt the best thing that TSR have produced so far.\" Lawrence Schick, author of \"Heroic Worlds\", commented that \"As nothing is easier to design than new monsters, it has spawned a host of imitations.\"\n\n\"Fiend Folio\" was published by TSR, Inc. \"Fiend Folio\" was primarily made up of monsters described in the \"Fiend Factory\" feature of \"White Dwarf\" and from various \"D&D\" modules, while some were original creations. It introduced several popular monsters to the \"D&D\" game including drow, githyanki, githzerai, slaad, and death knights. It also featured monsters that were widely ridiculed, such as the flumph, one of the few non-evil creatures presented in the volume.\n\n\"Monster Manual II\" was a 160-page hardcover book published in 1983, also credited solely to Gygax. The book was a supplement describing over 250 monsters, most with illustrations. Many of the monsters were drawn from scenario modules. The book included random encounter tables for dungeon and wilderness settings built from the \"Monster Manual\", \"Fiend Folio\", and \"Monster Manual II\". Some of its contents were taken from various \"AD&D\" adventure modules, in particular quite a number from \"S4: Lost Caverns of Tsojcanth\", and a dozen new devils that had been first published in the pages of \"Dragon\" magazine. Like the \"Fiend Folio\" before it, the monsters in \"Monster Manual II\" listed the experience point value for each monster within the entry. The \"Monster Manual II\" along with the First Edition \"Unearthed Arcana\" book featured quite a number of monsters, races, and places from Gary Gygax's home Greyhawk campaign world.\n\nThe \"Monstrous Compendium\" superseded the \"Monster Manual\" with the release of \"AD&D\" 2nd edition. The \"Compendium\" was a binder of looseleaf sheets, rather than a hardback book. The first two volumes contained the core monsters of the game. These were followed by a large number of appendices that contained extra monsters for particular campaign settings.\n\nThe format was intended to help Dungeon Masters (DM) keep handy only the monster statistics needed for a particular game session, as well as to greatly expand the information about each monster, as each was given at least one full page. It would also mean they would only need to purchase core volumes and appendix volumes for the campaigns they wanted, rather than getting a mix of monsters in books. However, the binder format ultimately proved impractical for two main reasons. First, looseleaf pages were not as durable as the hardcover format. As it was a frequently used game aid this was a serious concern. Second, TSR routinely printed different monsters on each side of a sheet, making it impossible to keep monsters in strict alphabetical order.\n\nIn 1993, the \"Monstrous Manual\" was released, compiling all monsters from the first two volumes of the \"Monstrous Compendium\" plus a large number of monsters from other sources into a 384-page hardcover book edited by Doug Stewart. More \"Monstrous Compendium\" appendices were released as a supplements to the \"Monstrous Manual\" in the form of paperback books. They included updated reprints of loose leaf \"Monstrous Compendium Appendices\" and new volumes.\n\nThe \"Monster Manual\" for the third edition of \"D&D\" was released in August 2000 as the third of three core books of the system. Monte Cook, Jonathan Tweet, and Skip Williams all contributed to the third edition \"Monster Manual\". Williams is credited with the design of the book. The updates were not intended to make major changes, only to update older monsters to third edition rules. According to Williams, \"the first item on the agenda was combing through the game's twenty year collection of monsters, and deciding which ones were going into the book... The design team decided to focus on creatures that fit well into classic dungeon style adventures, with extra emphasis on creatures we felt the game needed.\" In 2001 \"Monster Manual\" won the Origins Award for \"Best Graphic Design of a Roleplaying Game, Adventure, or Supplement 2000\". One reviewer called it \"...an essential reference book, and it is a bargain...\"\n\nThe next volumes, \"Monster Manual II\" and \"Fiend Folio\" were new monster-specific rulebooks. They contain mostly updated monsters from the sourcebooks of earlier editions, though some monsters have almost no overlap with those of their first edition namesakes. There were no new versions of \"Monster Manual II\" or \"Fiend Folio\" for the 3.5 edition of \"D&D\", although update errata for both volumes and for the original third edition \"Monster Manual\" are available for download from the publisher's website.\n\nIn July 2003, the \"Monster Manual\" was revised and released again for \"D&D\" v 3.5. The revision was done by Rich Baker and Skip Williams. The 3.5 revision has a slightly different entry on each monster than 3rd edition. Notably, each monster's attack has been divided into \"attack\" and \"full attack\" entries. When asked about the hardest part in revising the book, Rich Baker replied: \"The hardest part of the job was probably the sheer volume of the work we needed to do. There are hundreds of monster entries, and each monster has a couple dozen data points to examine and check.\" Some creatures from the \"Psionics Handbook\" and the third edition \"Manual of the Planes\" were added to the revised book. Further revision included the addition of an enhanced version of most monsters as an example of advancement (usually either with a template or with class levels). Many monsters also included instructions on how to use them as player characters.\n\nThe \"Monster Manual\" v 3.5 was reproduced as a premium reprint on September 18, 2012.\n\n\"Monster Manual III\" was published in 2004, and was designed by Rich Burlew, Eric Cagle, Jesse Decker, Andrew J. Finch, Gwendolyn F.M. Kestrel, Rich Redman, Matthew Sernett, Chris Thomasson, and P. Nathan Toomey. This Monster Manual is notable for its descriptions of where the monsters might be found in the Eberron and Forgotten Realms campaign settings. Chris Perkins explained: \"Almost all of the monsters in the \"Monster Manual III\" are new. We didn't want to give gamers a bunch of beasties they'd already seen, and we found several interesting monster niches to fill.\n\n\"Monster Manual IV\", published July 2006, was designed by Gwendolyn F.M. Kestrel, Jennifer Clarke Wilkes, Matthew Sernett, Eric Cagle, Andrew Finch, Christopher Lindsay, Kolja Raven Liquette, Chris Sims, Owen K.C. Stephens, Travis Stout, JD Wiker, and Skip Williams. This book was also published in the v3.5 format and used the new stat block format that was introduced in the \"Dungeon Master's Guide II\". \"Monster Manual IV\" contained fewer actual monsters than Monster Manual II and III, but had sample lairs and encounters for them, gave stats for classes and templates applied to old creatures, and full page maps. The book also ties into the \"Year of the Dragons\" theme that Wizards of the Coast planned out for 2006 with the Spawn of Tiamat, yet contains no new monsters that are considered true dragons.\n\nIn October 2006, the \"Special Edition Monster Manual\" was released, completing the set of special edition core rulebooks started in 2004 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of \"D&D\". Like the others, this book was leather-bound with silver-gilt edges and a cloth bookmark. The book was expanded with some new information, 31 new illustrations, and a new index. All collected errata up to its release date were included in this revision.\n\n\"Monster Manual V\" was released in July 2007, with David Noonan as lead designer, and additional design by Creighton Broadhurst, Jason Bulmahn, David Chart, B. Matthew Conklin III, Jesse Decker, James \"Grim\" Desborough, Rob Heinsoo, Sterling Hershey, Tim Hitchcock, Luke Johnson, Nicholas Logue, Mike McArtor, Aaron Rosenberg, Robert J. Schwalb, Rodney Thompson, and Wil Upchurch. This book was published in the same format as the \"Monster Manual IV\", featuring lairs and tactics and, like III and IV, detailing how these new monsters fit into Eberron and Forgotten Realms.\n\nThe \"D&D\" 4th edition \"Monster Manual\" was released with the other core books on June 6, 2008. It featured the demon prince Orcus on the cover. The book was designed by Mike Mearls, Stephen Schubert, and James Wyatt.\n\n\"Monster Manual 2\" was released on May 20, 2009 with Demogorgon on the cover; \"Monster Manual 3\" was released on June 15, 2010 featuring Lolth on its cover.\n\n\"Monster Vault\" was released November 16, 2010 and featured monsters introduced in the \"Monster Manual\" revised to the new format that was introduced in \"Monster Manual 3\". \"\" was released June 28, 2011 and re-introduced a few new monsters as well as several related to the setting of Nentir Vale. All volumes of the \"Monster Vault\" are parts of the \"Dungeons & Dragons Essentials\" line of 4th edition \"D&D\" products.\n\nThe \"D&D\" 5th edition \"Monster Manual\" was the second core book released for the new edition in September 2014. The cover depicts the beholder Xanathar attacking adventurers in the Underdark.\n\n"}
{"id": "474929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=474929", "title": "Native schools", "text": "Native schools\n\nIn New Zealand, native schools were established to provide education for Māori. The first schools for Māori children were established by the Church Missionary Society (CMS) in the Bay of Islands after the arrival of the CMS in 1814. Bishop Pompallier arrived in 1838. Priests and brothers of the Marist order, established schools for the Māori throughout the country, including Hato Paora College (Feilding) and Hato Petera College (Auckland). St Joseph's Māori Girls' College (Taradale) was founded by the Sisters of Our Lady of the Missions. \n\nThe Native Schools Act of 1867 provided from the government providing a school, teacher, books, and teaching materials to Māori communities who petitioned for a school. In 1880 the first inspector of native schools was appointed and issued a Native Schools Code that prescribed a curriculum, established qualifications for teachers, and standardised operation for the Māori schools.\nThe CMS founded its first mission at Rangihoua in the Bay of Islands in 1814 and over the next decade established schools in the Bay of Islands. The education of Māori children and adults was advanced with the arrival of the Revd. Henry Williams and his wife Marianne in 1823. In 1826 Henry's brother, the Revd. William, and his wife Jane joined the CMS mission and settled at Paihia in the Bay of Islands, where schools were established. Richard Taylor, was appointed as head of the CMS school at Te Waimate mission in 1839 and remained there until 1842.\n\nSchools for Māori children and adults were established in locations where the CMS established mission stations. For example, the Revd. William Williams and his family arrived at Tūranga, Poverty Bay on 20 January 1840. The schools run by William and Jane Williams were well attended, the school opened with five classes for men, two classes for women and classes for boys. Classes covered practical knowledge as well as the teaching of the scriptures. \n\nUntil the 1860s, the government subsidised church schools for Māori. Early missionary schools were often conducted in the Māori language, which was the predominant language throughout the early part of the 19th century. By the 1860s, three-quarters of the Māori population could read in Māori and two-thirds could write in Māori. The Education Ordinance of 1847 provided funding for mission schools and required them to conduct classes in English in order to receive subsidies. \n\nThe New Zealand Wars forced the closure of many of the mission schools. However, Te Aute College and Hukarere Girls' College in Hawkes Bay, which were established by the CMS, were not impacted by the wars. Schools for Māori children that followed the Roman Catholic tradition, including Hato Paora College (Feilding); and St Joseph's Māori Girls' College (Taradale), were also not impacted by the wars.\n\nThe Native Schools Act of 1867 was a major shift in policy. Rather than helping churches to rebuild mission schools after the wars, the government offered secular, state-controlled, primary schools to Māori communities who petitioned for them. In return for providing a suitable site, the government provided a school, teacher, books, and materials. The act required that instruction be carried out in English where practicable, and Māori were generally strongly supportive of their children learning English as they saw benefits in being able to work for Pākehā.\nMaori children were physically punished for speaking Maori in schools and this policy contributed to the massive decline in the Te Reo language, this policy persisted for decades after the act was introduced in the mid 19th century.\n\nJames Henry Pope (1837–1913) was appointed the organising inspector of native schools in January 1880 and he issued a Native Schools Code later in 1880 that prescribed a curriculum, established qualifications for teachers, and standardised operation for the native schools. The primary mission was to assimilate Māori into European culture. Māori could attend board of education schools and non-Māori could attend native Schools, although the primary purpose of the Native Schools was providing European education for Māori. Throughout the 20th century the number of Native schools decreased and Māori increasingly attended board of education schools. \n\nThe native schools remained distinct from other New Zealand schools until 1969, when the last 108 native schools were transferred to the control of education boards.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4977893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4977893", "title": "Philip K. Dick bibliography", "text": "Philip K. Dick bibliography\n\nThe bibliography of Philip K. Dick includes 44 novels, 121 short stories, and 14 short story collections published by American science fiction author Philip K. Dick (December 16, 1928 – March 2, 1982) during his lifetime.\nAt the time of his death, Dick's work was generally known to only science fiction readers, and many of his novels and short stories were out of print. To date, a total of 44 novels have been published and translations have appeared in 25 languages. Six volumes of selected correspondence, written by Dick from 1938 through 1982, were published between 1991 and 2009.\n\nThe Library of America has issued three collections of Dick's novels. The first, published in June 2007, contained \"The Man in the High Castle\", \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\", \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" and \"Ubik\", and was the first time science fiction was included in the LOA canon. The second collection was issued in July 2008 and included \"Martian Time Slip\", \"Dr. Bloodmoney\", \"Now Wait for Last Year\", \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\", and \"A Scanner Darkly\". The third collection was published in July 2009 and included \"A Maze of Death\" and the VALIS trilogy (\"VALIS\", \"The Divine Invasion\", and \"The Transmigration of Timothy Archer\").\n\nAt least nine films have been adapted from Dick's work, with \"Blade Runner\" (1982) widely considered a \"masterpiece\".\n\nFive recurring philosophical themes in Dick's work have been classified by Philip K. Dick scholar Erik Davis: false realities, human vs. machine, entropy, the nature of God, and social control. In \"Understanding Philip K. Dick\", Eric Carl Link discussed eight themes or 'ideas and motifs': Epistemology and the Nature of Reality, Know Thyself, The Android and the Human, Entropy and Pot Healing, The Theodicy Problem, Warfare and Power Politics, The Evolved Human, and 'Technology, Media, Drugs and Madness'.\n\nDates in this bibliography are for completion of first (and usually only) draft. Publication dates follow separately.\n\n\nThe Library of America has republished 13 of Dick's 44 novels:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe five volumes of The Collected Stories of Philip K. Dick were re-published and sold separately by Gollancz and later by Citadel Twilight and by Subterranean Press. For the Citadel Twilight editions the volumes were renamed and two stories were moved from one volume to another. The following table provides a comparison of the corresponding volumes from the various editions.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrimary bibliographies\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12338731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12338731", "title": "Program Files", "text": "Program Files\n\nProgram Files is the directory name of a standard folder in Microsoft Windows operating systems in which applications that are not part of the operating system are conventionally installed. Typically, each application installed under the 'Program Files' directory will have a subdirectory for its application-specific resources. Shared resources, for example resources used by multiple applications from one company, are typically stored in the <nowiki>'</nowiki>Common Program Files<nowiki>'</nowiki> directory.\n\nIn a standard Windows installation, the 'Program Files' directory will be at codice_1 (or the localized equivalent thereof), and the 'Common Program Files' (or the localized equivalent thereof) will be a subdirectory under 'Program Files'. In Windows Vista and later, the paths to the 'Program Files' and 'Common Program Files' directories are not localized on disk. Instead, the localized names are NTFS junction points to the non-localized locations. Additionally, the Windows shell localizes the name of the Program Files folder depending on the system's user interface display language.\n\nBoth 'Program Files' and 'Common Program Files' can be moved. At system startup, the actual paths to 'Program Files' and 'Common Program Files' are loaded from the Windows registry, where they are stored in the codice_2 and codice_3 values under codice_4. They are then made accessible to the rest of the system via the volatile environment variables codice_5, and codice_6. Applications can also obtain the locations of these paths by querying the codice_7 using codice_8, or through Windows Management Instrumentation, or by querying the shell using CSIDLs, or codice_9. These are all localization-independent methods.\n\nx86-64 and IA-64 versions of Windows have two folders for application files: The Program Files folder serves as the default installation target for 64-bit programs, while the Program Files (x86) folder is the default installation target for 32-bit programs that need WoW64 emulation layer. While 64-bit Windows versions also have a codice_10 environment variable, the dirids and CSIDLs are not different between 32-bit and 64-bit environments; the APIs merely return different results, depending on whether the calling process is emulated or not.\n\nTo be backwards compatible with the 8.3 limitations of the old File Allocation Table filenames, the names 'Program Files', 'Program Files (x86)' and 'Common Program Files' are shortened by the system to codice_11 and codice_12, where \"N\" is a digit, a sequence number that on a clean install will be 1 (or 1 and 2 when both 'Program Files' and 'Program Files (x86)' are present).\n\nIf Windows is installed on an NTFS volume, by default, the 'Program Files' folder can only be modified by members of the 'Administrators' user groups. This can be an issue for programs created for Windows 9x. Those operating systems had no file system security, and programs could therefore also store their data in 'Program Files'. Programs that store their data in 'Program Files' will usually not run correctly on Windows NT systems with normal user privileges unless security is lowered for the affected subdirectories. Windows Vista addressed this issue by introducing File and Registry Virtualization.\n\n"}
{"id": "35901141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35901141", "title": "R v Viljoen", "text": "R v Viljoen\n\nR v Viljoen is an important case in South African law. It was heard in the Appellate Division on 23 April 1941, with judgment handed down on 6 May. De Wet CJ, Watermeyer JA, Tindall JA, Centlivres JA, and Feetham JA presided.\n\nA statement had been made by the accused to a peace officer without compliance with the formalities prescribed by section 273(1) of the Criminal Procedure and Evidence Act.\n\nThat statement, the court found, although it was capable of implying an admission of guilt, was also capable of a rational explanation, which did not include any such admission. The court held, therefore, that the statement was not a confession within the meaning of the section.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "346788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346788", "title": "Rossano Gospels", "text": "Rossano Gospels\n\nThe Rossano Gospels, designated by 042 or Σ (in the Gregory-Aland numbering), ε 18 (Soden), at the cathedral of Rossano in Italy, is a 6th-century illuminated manuscript Gospel Book written following the reconquest of the Italian peninsula by the Byzantine Empire. Also known as Codex purpureus Rossanensis due to the reddish-purple (\"purpureus\" in Latin) appearance of its pages, the codex is one of the oldest surviving illuminated manuscripts of the New Testament. The manuscript is famous for its prefatory cycle of miniatures of subjects from the \"Life of Christ\", arranged in two tiers on the page, sometimes with small Old Testament prophet portraits below, prefiguring and pointing up to events described in the New Testament scene above.\n\nThe now incomplete codex contains the text of the Gospel of Matthew and the majority of the Gospel of Mark, with only one lacuna (Mark 16:14-20). Probably it had companion second volume which is apparently lost. Like the Vienna Genesis and the Sinope Gospels, the Rossano Gospels are written in silver ink on purple dyed parchment.\nThe large ( by ) book has text written in a square block with two columns of twenty lines each. There is a prefatory cycle of illustrations which are also on purple dyed parchment.\n\nIt contains the Epistula ad Carpianum, tables of the κεφάλαια (\"tables of contents\") before each Gospel, τίτλοι (\"titles\") at the top of the pages, numbers of Ammonian Sections, and references to the Eusebian Canons.\n\nThe text of the Codex agrees generally with the Byzantine text-type in close relationship to the Codex Petropolitanus Purpureus. The Rossano Gospels, along with the manuscripts N, O, and Φ, belong to the group of the Purple Uncials (or purple codices). Aland placed all four manuscripts of the group (the Purple Uncials) in Category V.\n\nIn it has the additional reading τον Ιωακιμ, Ιωακιμ δε εγεννησεν (\"Joakim, Joakim begot\") — M U Θ \"f\" 33 258 478 661 954 1216 1230 1354 1604 Lectionary 54 syr geo.\n\nIn it reads ακαθαρσιας for ακρασιας, a reading supported by Old Latin, the Syriac Sinaiticus manuscript, and Coptic version.\n\nCurrently the manuscript is dated by the INTF to the 6th century.\n\nThe codex was discovered in 1879 in the Italian city of Rossano by Oskar von Gebhardt and Adolf Harnack, in the sacristy of Rossano Cathedral.\n\nOn 9 October 2015 the international UNESCO Committee, inscribed the Codex Purpureus Rossanensis in the register memory of the world, in Abu Dabi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37381701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37381701", "title": "Some Gritstone Climbs", "text": "Some Gritstone Climbs\n\nSome Gritstone Climbs is a rock climbing guidebook written by British lawyer John Laycock (1887–1960). The book's subtitle, included uniquely on the frontispiece, is \"Some Shorter Climbs (in Derbyshire and Elsewhere)\". It was published in Manchester in 1913 by the Refuge Printing Department (then an insurance company). Although focusing on rock climbing in the Peak District, it covers several adjacent cliffs outside this region, and despite its title, referring to the Millstone Grit (or gritstone) geology of many of the cliffs, it includes several cliffs consisting of other rock types, including Mountain Limestone and Red sandstone. It is regarded as the first ever published rock climbing guidebook for the Peak District National Park. \"Some Gritstone Climbs\" is one of the earliest guidebooks to rock climbing in the United Kingdom: \"Climbing in the British Isles\" by Walter Parry Haskett Smith was published in 1894 and the climbing guide \"The Climbs on Lliwedd\", by J. M. A. Thompson and A. W. Andrew, in 1909.\n\nThe book is 16 cm × 12 cm, contains 14 leaves of plates, and has 116 pages. It has 11 initial pages (including frontispiece and preface), and 116 pages of content, with 3 appendices. The brief, single page appendices are: 'Limestone Climbs'; a selective list of 'severe' climbs; a brief Bibliography. It is in hardback format, with a dark green cover. The book contains three short, single page appendices: Appendix I: Limestone Climbs; Appendix II ('severe climbs'); Appendix III: Bibliography. The book contains a dedication to 'S. W. Herford', referring to Siegfried Herford, a pioneer rock climber and close friend of Laycock. Herford went on to climb the famous Central Buttress route on Sca Fell, and was killed at Ypres in 1916, shortly after the book's publication.\n\nThe following climbing areas are covered in the book. Some are now known by other names, such as Stonnis Rocks (now more commonly known as Black Rocks), or have ceased to be popular climbing venues, such as Coombes Rocks. All are still subject to modern access arrangements, clearly defined in the relevant current guidebooks. Some of the major climbing venues in the Peak District were omitted, such as Stanage Edge and Wharncliff Crag, due to access restrictions at the time.\n\n\nThe manuscript was finished in 1911, but not published for another two years. The book originally sold for 3 shillings and 6 pence. The Rucksack Club was opposed to the publication of the book as a number of the crags described, including those on Kinder Scout, were on private property and the club was concerned about trespass law. The club committee, influenced by the solicitor Charles Pickstone, withdrew its support. Laycock resigned from the club, of which he was a founder member, in disgust. The book was finally published by the Refuge Printing Department (an insurance company in Manchester at the time), with financial support from four friends. A very early review appeared in the Yorkshire Ramblers Club Journal in 1913, in which it was noted that the book was \"liable to be dismissed by a percentage of mountaineers as a Baby Book on Toy Climbs\". It was also stated that: \"Mr. Laycock has modelled this unpretentious little volume somewhat on the lines of \"Climbs on Lliwedd\" and \"Climbing in the Ogwen District,\" and is, I think, to be congratulated on his effort. In one respect he is entitled to unqualified approbation: he has not sinned the sin of understating difficulties\". The same review critiqued the selection of crags and climbs, some of the latter being described as \"merely fancy gymnastics\".\n\n\"Some Gritstone Climbs\" has been widely cited in subsequent literature relating to climbing and the Peak District. It was first referenced in its year of publication by a Baddeley Guide to \"The Peak District of Derbyshire and the Neighbourhood\" as \"A recent work gives an excellent synopsis of climbing in the\ndistrict on millstone' grit – viz.: \"Some Gritstone Climbs in Derbyshire and Elsewhere.\" By John Laycock. 3s. 9d. net. Refuge Press, Manchester.\" It was also referenced in the club documents of several climbing clubs at the time, including by the Yorkshire Ramblers' Club in 1913, who stated: \"In his little volume, \"Some Gritstone Climbs\", Mr. J. Laycock speaks of the Buxton Boss, an excrescence of gritstone on the side of Coombs Moss, not far from Buxton. If this be the boulder I have in my mind, it is also known as the Buckstone and Robin Hood's Stone and, in addition to presenting several attractive little problems, possesses a peculiar historic interest all its own.\"\n\n\"Some Gritstone Climbs\" is regarded as \"the first pocket climbing guidebook\". The book is significant for its early date, its rarity, and for the historical perspective on both the format and the sport. It was one of the earliest British climbing guides to use a system of detailed Grade (climbing) for specific climbs. It included the following different classifications for climbs: Moderate; Moderately Difficult; Difficult; Decidedly Difficult; Distinctly Difficult; Very Difficult; Severe. This extended the simple 4 grade system published in Owen Glynne Jones 1900 book \"Rock Climbing in the English Lake District\". Laycock pioneered much of the early exploration at many of the cliffs included in the guide. For example, at Helsby, where 'The Overhanging Crack' was considered at that time to be one of the hardest \"gritstone\" climbs in England. Laycock's guide was the first to document climbs at many of the crags featured in the book, such as Blackstone Edge, and it has been regarded as the first 'modern' approach to climbing guides. Some cliffs, such as Laddow Rocks, had already been documented in private climbing club publications, and in the 1903 book by Ernest A. Baker, \"Moors, Crags & Caves of the High Peak and the Neighbourhood\", but \"Some Gritstone Climbs\" was the first to collate cliffs and climbs into a regional guide.\n\nAs noted by subsequent gritstone pioneers such as H. M. Kelly: \"Laycock's little book \"Some Gritstone Climbs\" has had a much greater influence than its size and subject would indicate\". It is regarded by climbing historians as a historical 'snapshot' of the pioneering explorations of 'the first gritstone tigers'. It also disseminated information, publicized recent new ascents, and allowed the next generation of climbers to develop newer and harder routes. For example, it was in the hands of Piggot, Wood and Wilding in 1920 when they made the first ascents of Lean Man's Climb, Sand Buttress and Lone Tree Gully at Black Rocks.\n\nA supplement to Laycock's book was published in 1923 as \"Recent Developments on Gritstone\", edited by Fergus Graham. This was in response to new explorations in Yorkshire and the Peak District, and was jointly published by The Rucksack Club, Gritstone Club, and the Yorkshire Ramblers' Club. This in turn started the trend for increasingly regular regional climbing guides, both in the Peak District and elsewhere in the UK. This led, after the Second World War, to the first series of guidebooks to cover all the gritstone crags in the Peak; a publication pattern that continues to the present day. This series commenced in 1948 with \"The Climbs on Gritstone Series, Volume 1: The Laddow Area\", edited by Harry Parker. Subsequent volumes were published for \"The Sheffield Area\", 1951 (Volume 2); \"Kinder, Roaches and Northern Areas\", 1951 (Volume 3); \"Further Developments in the Peak District\", 1957 (Volume 4); \"West Yorkshire Area\" (Volume 5). These and other guidebooks used the format, grading system and approach of Laycock's original Peak guide, but with a more succinct style. Like the original book, these later guides acted as a 'snapshot' of their generation, and a basis for the next advances in rock climbing standards in the Peak District.\n\n"}
{"id": "56927518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56927518", "title": "Sonja Veselinović", "text": "Sonja Veselinović\n\nSonja Veselinović (Serbian-Cyrillic: Соња Веселиновић; born 1981 in Novi Sad, Yugoslavia) is a Serbian writer and assistant professor of comparative literature at the Philosophical Faculty of the University of Novi Sad.\n\nSonja Veselinović studied comparative literature at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Novi Sad, graduated with Magister degree in 2009 and obtained her doctorate as PhD in 2014. In 2016, she became assistant professor at the department of comparative literature of the university.\n\nThe literary scholar and artist is member of the editorial board of the literary magazine Polja (Fields) since 2007. In the same year, she received the first prize of the Festival of Young Poets (Serbian: Festival mladih pesnika) in Zaječar. The best manuscript \"Poema preko\" (Poem across) was published as book a year later – a \"poem across\" the way of individual being. The narrator figure (first-person narrative) addresses Marina Tsvetaeva in dealing with the issues of identity, creativity and self-fulfillment. This fragmentary, intertextual and discursive prose searches for the limits of representation of subjectivity through different personas and vivid imagery. An excerpt of the work has been published in Hungarian and German translation. In 2009, she participated in a reading by Denny Rosenthal during the \"German Cultural Days Novi Sad\". Belgrade's Goethe-Institute selected her for participation as one of the Serbian artistic representants at the \"European Borderlands Festival 2010\". She was invited guest of the Committee on Cultural and Media Affairs of the German Bundestag in cooperation with the \"Brandenburg Gate Foundation\" at the Leipzig Book Fair 2011. The scholar gave an English lecture on Yugoslav Black Wave at Martin Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg in 2018.\n\nThe writer is also laureate of the Isidora Sekulić Award 2013 for her prose \"Krosfejd\". The title is the Serbian term for Crossfade. This prose can be described as mixture (crossfade) of two inner voices of the main character, its fragmented narration, intertextuality and imagery reflects motifs of longing for love and self-knowledge in searching for individual authenticity.\nSo far, in addition to her scientific work, Sonja Veselinović devoted herself to the translation of few English and French works by John Ashbury, Jean Giraudoux, Milan Kundera and Jacques Rancière into Serbian.\n\n"}
{"id": "573160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=573160", "title": "Space Shuttle Pathfinder", "text": "Space Shuttle Pathfinder\n\nThe Space Shuttle Orbiter \"Pathfinder\" (unofficial Orbiter Vehicle Designation: OV-098) is a Space Shuttle test simulator made of steel and wood. Constructed by NASA in 1977 as an unnamed facilities test article, it was purchased in the early 1980s by the America-Japan Society, Inc. which had it refurbished, named it, and placed it on display in the Great Space Shuttle Exhibition in Tokyo. The mockup was later returned to the United States and placed on permanent display at the U.S. Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama, in May 1988.\n\nOriginally unnamed, the simulator was built at the Marshall Space Flight Center in 1977 for use in activities such as checking roadway clearances, crane capabilities and fits within structures. It was later shipped by barge to the Kennedy Space Center and was used for ground crew testing in the Vehicle Assembly Building, Orbiter Processing Facility, and Shuttle Landing Facility. \"Pathfinder\" is approximately the same size, shape and weight of an actual Orbiter. Using \"Pathfinder\" allowed for facilities testing without requiring use of the more delicate and expensive \"Enterprise\".\n\nAfter sitting in storage for many years, the America-Japan Society, Inc. obtained the wood and steel mockup at a cost of US$1 million and hired Teledyne Brown Engineering to refurbish it to more closely resemble an actual Space Shuttle. It was named \"Pathfinder\" and displayed at the Great Space Shuttle Exposition in Tokyo from June 1983 to August 1984.\n\nAfter the exhibit, \"Pathfinder\" returned to the United States. The U.S. Space & Rocket Center in Huntsville, Alabama designed the display and built a stand. NASA provided MPTA-ET and two filament-wound Solid Rocket Booster casings, which had been designed for polar-orbit launches from Vandenberg Air Force Base.\n\nOn February 16, 1988, NASA shipped MPTA-ET, a external tank, which had been used for propulsion tests with MPTA-098, on an open barge from Stennis Space Center in Mississippi up the river to Michoud, where it was transferred to the Orion barge to sail up the river to Marshall Space Flight Center. The tank, not having been designed to hold the weight of an orbiter at an angle, required reinforcements. NASA installed I-beam spokes in the tank at Marshall, in building 4705. \"Pathfinder\"s weight is concentrated in the tail, though, and the tank required further reinforcements. The tank was then transported over land to the display at the museum. \n\nIn May 1988, the 89-ton \"Pathfinder\" was installed atop the display at the Space & Rocket Center.\n\nIn 1999, NASA removed the forward assemblies from each SRB attached to the \"Pathfinder\" stack. Although the SRBs are recovered and reused after each flight, several of the forward assemblies had been damaged or lost over the history of the Space Shuttle program necessitating requisition of those attached to the \"Pathfinder\" stack as spares.\n\nIn 2008, repairs were made to the forward part of the mockup after decades of exposure to the weather had corroded the floor section near the vehicle's nose. This corrosion caused the \"belly pan\" to drop from a mounting bracket onto the external tank. The damaged area was part of the fiberglass and plywood added to the mockup before its exhibition in Japan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30875467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30875467", "title": "Spring and Autumn Annals", "text": "Spring and Autumn Annals\n\nThe Spring and Autumn Annals or Chunqiu is an ancient Chinese chronicle that has been one of the core Chinese classics since ancient times. The \"Annals\" is the official chronicle of the State of Lu, and covers a 241-year period from 722 to 481 BC. It is the earliest surviving Chinese historical text to be arranged in annals form. Because it was traditionally regarded as having been compiled by Confucius (after a claim to this effect by Mencius), it was included as one of the Five Classics of Chinese literature. \n\nThe \"Annals\" records main events that occurred in Lu during each year, such as the accessions, marriages, deaths, and funerals of rulers, battles fought, sacrificial rituals observed, celestial phenomena considered ritually important, and natural disasters. The entries are tersely written, averaging only 10 characters per entry, and contain no elaboration on events or recording of speeches.\n\nDuring the Warring States period (475221), a number of commentaries to the \"Annals\" were created that attempted to elaborate on or find deeper meaning in the brief entries in the \"Annals\". The \"Commentary of Zuo (Zuo zhuan\" 左傳\")\", the best known of these commentaries, became a classic in its own right, and is the source of more Chinese sayings and idioms than any other classical work.\n\nThe \"Spring and Autumn Annals\" was likely composed in the 5th century BC, and apart from the \"Bamboo Annals\" is the only such work to have survived from that period. By the time of Confucius, in the 6th century BC, the term \"springs and autumns\" (\"chūnqiū\" , Old Chinese *\"tʰun tsʰiw\") had come to mean \"year\" and was probably becoming a generic term for \"annals\" or \"scribal records\". The \"Annals\" was not the only work of its kind, as many other Eastern Zhou states also kept annals in their archives.\n\nThe \"Annals\" is a succinct scribal record, with terse entries that record events such as the accessions, marriages, deaths, and funerals of rulers, battles fought, sacrificial records observed, natural disasters, and celestial phenomena believed to be of ritual significance. The entries average only 10 characters in length; the longest entry in the entire work is only 47 characters long, and a number of the entries are only a single character long. There are 11 entries that read simply *\"tung\" () – \"a plague of insects\" (probably locusts).\n\nSome modern scholars have questioned whether the entries were ever originally intended as a chronicle for human readers, and have suggested that the \"Annals\" entries may have been intended as \"ritual messages directed primarily to the ancestral spirits.\"\n\nSince the text of this book is terse and its contents limited, a number of commentaries were composed to explain and expand on its meanings. The \"Book of Han\" vol. 30 lists five commentaries:\n\n\nNo text of the \"Zou\" or \"Jia\" commentaries has survived. The \"Gongyang\" and \"Guliang\" commentaries were compiled during the 2nd century BC, although modern scholars had suggested they probably incorporate earlier written and oral traditions of explanation from the period of Warring States. They are based upon different editions of the \"Spring and Autumn Annals\", and are phrased as questions and answers. The surviving commentaries are known collectively as the \"Three Commentaries on the Spring and Autumn Annals\".\n\nThe \"Commentary of Zuo\", also known as the \"Zuo Zhuan\", composed in the early 4th century BC, is a general history covering the period from 722 to 468 BC which follows the succession of the rulers of the State of Lu. Modern scholars disagree about whether it is truly a commentary on the \"Spring and Autumn Annals\" or an independent work. In any case, scholars have found it by far the most useful among the three surviving 'commentaries' both as a historical source for the period and as a guide to interpreting the \"Annals\".\n\nThe \"Annals\" is one of the core Chinese classics and had an enormous influence on Chinese intellectual discourse for nearly 2500 years. This was due to Mencius' assertion in the 4th century that Confucius himself edited the \"Annals\", an assertion which was accepted by the entire Chinese scholarly tradition and went almost entirely unchallenged until the early 20th century. The \"Annals\"' terse style was interpreted as Confucius' deliberate attempt to convey \"lofty principles in subtle words\" (\"wēiyán dàyì\" 微言大義). Not all scholars accepted this explanation: Tang dynasty historiographer Liu Zhiji believed the \"Commentary of Zuo\" was far superior to the \"Annals\", and Song dynasty prime minister Wang Anshi famously dismissed the \"Annals\" as \"a fragmentary court gazette (\"duànlàn cháobào\" )\". Many Western scholars have given similar evaluations: the French sinologist Édouard Chavannes referred to the \"Annals\" as \"an arid and dead chronicle\". \n\nThe \"Annals\" have become so evocative of the era in which they were composed that it is now widely referred to as the Spring and Autumn period.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12301052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12301052", "title": "Stonewall National Museum &amp; Archives", "text": "Stonewall National Museum &amp; Archives\n\nStonewall National Museum and Archives (SNMA) is a nonprofit, tax-exempt 501(c)(3) organization that promotes understanding through preserving and sharing the culture of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and their role in society. SNMA is dedicated solely to LGBT history, civil rights, art and culture. The museum features three gallery spaces with changing monthly and bi-monthly exhibits, and includes a permanent timeline of American LGBT history. The SNMA is located at 1300 East Sunrise Boulevard, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33304.\n\nThe Stonewall Library & Archives was founded in 1973 by Mark N. Silber. The collection was housed in his parents' house for 10 years. It was moved to a classroom at the Sunshine Cathedral, Metropolitan Community Church in Fort Lauderdale, Florida around 1983.The library merged with the Boca Raton-based Southern Gay Archives and they formed Stonewall Library & Archives, Inc. In 2001, the library and archive moved into the Gay and Lesbian Community Center of South Florida at 1717 North Andrews Avenue.\n\nThe center was slated for demolition, so Stonewall began looking for other options. They were approached by Broward County, who offered the collection space at the Fort Lauderdale branch of the Broward County library, which already includes tenant ArtServe. The Broward County Commission approved the move in a 9-0 vote on 10 June 2007.\nThe new location opened in February 2009 at 1300 East Sunrise Blvd in Fort Lauderdale Florida.\n\nIn 2014 the Museum opened a branch, the Stonewall Gallery, at 2157 Wilton Drive in neighboring Wilton Manors.\n\nOn 10 July 2007, the Fort Lauderdale city commission also voted, on a 3-2 vote, to allow the library to occupy a space in the building that is city owned but under long-term lease to the county. Before the vote, mayor Jim Naugle denounced the library, claiming that it contained pornographic materials. Executive Director Jack Rutland noted that the three titles singled out by Naugle were all part of the library's non-circulating archive of 7000 titles, maintained for historical and research purposes only. The dispute was another round in a stormy relationship between the city's large gay community and Naugle, who has repeatedly made statements that are perceived as anti-gay.\n\nAmong the 5,000 items are their pulp fiction collection, organizational records of local, national and regional LGBT organizations, personal records of local and national personalities, the Joel Starkey Collection, serials, gay erotica - pictorial works, and LGBT ephemera, film, audio and oral histories. \n\nThe collection includes the gavel that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi used to end \"Don't Ask, Don't Tell\" back in 2010. According to the Huffington Post, it was donated to Stonewall by Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), who had received it from Pelosi. Then Museum president, Bryan Knicely, said \"if I didn't work here, I would think it belonged to the Smithsonian.\" The Stonewall National Museum & Archives is currently run by Executive Director, Chris Rudisill. \n\nThe Stonewall National Museum and Archives hosts several programs open to the community that bring awareness to LGBT issues or allow a space for LGBT participants and others from the community to feel welcome. The museum hosts movie nights, a book club, GayWrites workshops, film screenings, art galleries, socials and other events within the museum. Other events include Gala events, walks, talks with writers, gallery exhibits, volunteer programs, and participation in lgbt events out in the community. \n\nThe Stonewall National Education Project national network is composed of delegates representing more than 4.5 million high-school-aged youth and 200,000 educators. The network meets every year at its annual Symposium. Symposium topics include: laws, best practices and resources at the state and federal level, policy and funding, accommodations for transgender and gender nonconforming students, bullying, self-esteem, power & privilege, social justice and curriculum, sex, sexuality, HIV and YMSM support systems, and creating community for Black adolescent sexual minority males\n\nAt Stonewall National Museum – Wilton Manors Gallery rotating exhibits, permanent exhibits with items from the Stonewall Archives, and a timeline of American LGBT history amplify the distinctly personal connection of sexuality, gender and civil rights, at the front door of the LGBT community in South Florida. Stonewall Gallery engages tourists and residents with an ongoing schedule of meaningful, lively exhibits, panel discussions, films, and author presentations year-round\n\nMichael Rajner, local community and LGBT rights activist, said the Gallery filled a much-needed role in the city’s cultural landscape. “It’s one of the things we’ve been really missing on The Drive. While we have art galleries and studios one of the things we’re really missing, for a community and city that has such a high concentration of LGBT individuals, was something about our culture. It’s a great opportunity to introduce people to how rich our struggle is for equality.” The Gallery is divided into two halves: one side features semi-permanent items, such as the gavel used by Nancy Pelosi when Don’t Ask Don’t Tell was repealed in 2010. It was donated by Rep. Barney Frank. Also included is a timeline that features members of the LGBT community and LGBT-themed events. The other half is devoted to temporary exhibits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13939966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13939966", "title": "The g Factor: General Intelligence and Its Implications", "text": "The g Factor: General Intelligence and Its Implications\n\nThe g Factor: General Intelligence and Its Implications is a book by Christopher Brand, a psychologist and lecturer at the University of Edinburgh. It was published by John Wiley & Sons in the United Kingdom in March 1996. The book was \"depublished\" by the publishing house on April 17, which cited \"deep ethical beliefs\" in its decision to remove the book from circulation; it is generally agreed that material in the book that covered racial issues in intelligence testing was responsible for the withdrawal. Wiley argued that after \"inflammatory statements\" Brand had made elsewhere, it was possible to \"infer some of the same repugnant views from the text\".\n\nAccording to economist Edward M. Miller, \"While Wiley has not been specific as to just what views that were trying to prevent the dissemination of, one presumes they have to do with racial differences in intelligence and the implications for economics and educational policy.\"\n\nIn a different review, H.J. Eysenck (\"Personality and Individual Differences\", Vol. 21, No. 5, 1996) wrote concerning the decision by Wiley:\n\nWhile Eysenck chose to highlight connections between Brand's book and that of Herrnstein and Murray, an editorial in \"New Scientist\" took issue with the comparison and criticized both Brand's research and Wiley's decision:\n\nThe text of the book has been released as an electronic download by Philippe Gouillou.\n"}
{"id": "38417612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38417612", "title": "Tractatus de Herbis", "text": "Tractatus de Herbis\n\nThe Tractatus de Herbis is an illustrated treatise of medicinal plants painted in 1440. It is housed under shelfmark Sloane 4016 in the British Library, in London.\n\nThe Medieval medicine of Western Europe was much influenced by the many groups who contributed to the make-up of society. The contributions of Byzantine, Arabic and Mozarabic physicians were introduced into the Greek foundational texts of medicine, as was also the knowledge of people from further afield across the borders of the western world. Among the many results of this multiplicity of ethnic groups and cultures, medicinal plants had many different names coming from the several groups who were using them to prepare remedies. Such diversity was a source of confusions. To avoid the danger possibly generated by confusion between plants, apothecaries and physicians compiled dictionaries of plant names and commissioned albums with representations of the plants and other \"materia medica\" (animal and mineral) they used in their daily medical practice.\n\nIn some manuscripts, such illustrative albums do not contain any text, but only the names of the plants in the language of the several groups present in medieval society. These albums with multilingual lists of plant names were visual aids which allowed for easy identification of the plants to be used in the practice of remedial therapy. Their representations of materia medica were much more efficient than words to make transcultural exchanges possible.\n\nThese illustrated works transformed the whole field of botanical literature. From translators/interpreters aimed to make it possible to associate one plant with its names in different languages and populations, they became reference works which made unnecessary to include plant representations in botanical and medical treatises. They became reference works of a new type which could be consulted and used by readers of any language.\n\nThe \"Tractatus de Herbis\" is one such work linking the different plant names to the plants themselves through the mediation of the image. This made it possible to avoid confusion and, consequently, the risk of administering to a patient a plant different from the one prescribed by the physician.\n\nThe manuscript is a volume with 109 folios of large parchment, (365 mm x 265 mm) It is illustrated with nearly 500 polychrome representations of plants, animals and minerals, which were all used as primary materials to produce drugs.\n\nThese illustrations also include some people (ff. 2r, 44v, 98v), a mummy (f. 62r), animals’ parts (antlers, for example, on f. 34v), and manufactured by-products (wax, f. 30r).\nThough this manuscript lacks a signature, colophon, or any indication of its provenance or date, it has traditionally been considered to be of North Italian origin, most likely from the Lombardy region from about 1440 judging from its Gothic-style script. Later, it belonged to the Marquis of Magny, (1643-1721), then to the English collector Hans Sloane (1660-1753), before it became part of the collections of the British Museum in 1839.\n\nIn 2002 the Folio Society reproduced the \"Tractatus de Herbis\" in a numbered limited edition of 1000, accompanied by a commentary volume written by Minta Collins with list of plants compiled by Sandra Raphael.\n\nIn 2012 the Spanish publishing house M. Moleiro Editor produced a facsimile edition of the \"Tractatus de Herbis\". This edition limited to 987 copies comes with a companion volume by Historian of Science and Medicine Alain Touwaide of the Institute for the Preservation of Medical Traditions and the (Smithsonian Institution).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35781136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35781136", "title": "Vjesci", "text": "Vjesci\n\nThe vjesci () is a vampire in Polish folklore. According to legend, a person was destined to be a vjesci from the time they were born. It was possible to point one out from a caul located on the newborn's head. In order to prevent the person from becoming a vjesci, the caul was removed, dried, ground and fed to the person on their seventh birthday. For the most part, the vjesci would appear to be quite normal and would blend into the community. Some accounts say that the vjesci had an excitable nature and a ruddy complexion. At the time of their death, a vjesci would refuse to take the sacrament. The body would cool closely and the limbs would remain limber. The lips and cheeks would remain red. Spots of blood often appeared under the fingernails and on the face.\n\nAccording to legend, the vjesci didn't really die, however. At midnight after burial, the vampire returned to life, eating his clothes and some of his own flesh. The vampire left the grave and returned home to eat his family and neighbors.\n\nThis legend is particularly interesting because people were actually told how to protect themselves against a vjesci.\n\n\nThe wupji (or opji) is a very similar legend to the vjesci. The wupji in Kashubia had two teeth instead of a cap at birth and was foreordained to become a vampire. There was no possibility of altering its destiny.\n"}
{"id": "8520128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8520128", "title": "Woordeboek van die Afrikaanse Taal", "text": "Woordeboek van die Afrikaanse Taal\n\nWoordeboek van die Afrikaanse Taal (\"Dictionary of the Afrikaans Language\"), generally known as the WAT, is the largest descriptive Afrikaans dictionary. As comprehensive descriptive dictionary, it strives to reflect the Afrikaans language in its entirety. Not only standard Afrikaans is portrayed, but also varieties like Kaaps and Namakwalands. Fourteen volumes have been published, with the fourteenth volume containing the first part of the letter S. The \"WAT\" is also available as a CD and on the internet.\n\nThe project was begun in 1926 by Prof. J J Smith of Stellenbosch University.\n\n"}
{"id": "1515153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1515153", "title": "World's Smallest Political Quiz", "text": "World's Smallest Political Quiz\n\nThe World's Smallest Political Quiz is a 10-question educational quiz for an American audience designed by the libertarian Advocates for Self Government, created by Marshall Fritz. It associates the quiz-taker with one of five categories: libertarian, left-liberal, centrist, right-conservative, or statist.\n\nAccording to the Advocates, the quiz was designed primarily to be more accurate than the one-dimensional \"left–right\" or \"liberal–conservative\" political spectrum by providing a two-dimensional representation. The Quiz is composed of two parts: a diagram of a political map; and a series of 10 short questions designed to help viewers quickly score themselves and others on that map.\n\nThe 10 questions are divided into two groups, economic and personal, of five questions each. The answers to the questions can be Agree, Maybe or Disagree. Twenty points are given for an Agree, ten points for a Maybe, and zero for Disagree. The scores are added for each group and can be zero to one hundred. These two numbers are then plotted on the diamond-shaped chart and the result displays the political group that agrees most with the quiz taker.\n\nThe chart associated with the Quiz is based on the Nolan Chart devised during 1969 by libertarian political scientist David Nolan. Nolan reasoned that virtually all human political action can be divided into two general categories: economic and personal. In order to express visually this insight, Nolan developed a two axis graph. One axis was for economic freedom, and the other was for personal freedom.\n\nNolan introduced his chart by an article entitled \"Classifying and Analyzing Politico-Economic Systems\" published in the January 1971 issue of The Individualist, a libertarian newsletter.\n\nIn 1985, Marshall Fritz founded the Advocates for Self Government. Part of the Advocates' mission was to explain libertarian ideas to the public. Fritz found that Nolan's chart was a great help with explaining how libertarianism was distinct from conservatism and liberalism. He created the Quiz in 1987, and it was the first political Quiz posted on the Internet.\n\nThe first form the Quiz took was as a business card, with the ten questions printed on it along with the chart. As of August 2004, over 7 million Quizzes had been printed. The Quiz, then, is a combination of two elements: Nolan's chart, and Fritz's idea of ten short questions to help a person find their associated place on that graph.\n\nThe quiz has also been represented in other forms: reprinted in newspapers, used in classrooms, and recommended by leading high school and college textbooks. During 1993, Brian Towey, with the help of his wife Ingrid, produced a full-color, instant-scoring computer Quiz on disk, for the DOS and Windows operating systems. Programmer Jon Kalb created an equally advanced version for Macintosh computers. Toby Nixon created an ASCII text copy of the Quiz in the era prior to the World Wide Web, and this version was circulated in newsgroups, computer networks, bulletin boards, and on software. During 1995, Paul Schmidt created the Advocates' website, with the current interactive version of the World's Smallest Political Quiz.\n\nAs of November 1, 2013, the online World's Smallest Political Quiz has been taken 20 million times since it was first put on the Web in 1995. \n\nThe ten questions have been modified over time.\n\n\n\n\nOn August 23, 2000, Portrait of America conducted a national telephone survey of 822 likely voters. Using the same questions and scale, the survey found 32% of American voters are centrists; 16% are libertarians; 14% are authoritarians; 13% liberal; 7% are conservative; and, 17% border one or more categories. The margin of sampling error is +/- 3 percentage points with a 95% level of confidence.\n\nAccording to e-mails collected by the quiz's advocates, it has been used in 420 schools in the United States. The online content associated with several textbooks is also claimed to feature the Quiz. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15533573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15533573", "title": "Zumstein catalog", "text": "Zumstein catalog\n\nThe Zumstein catalog is a postage stamp catalog from Switzerland. It has been issued regularly since 1909 and is considered to be an important reference work of Swiss philately. It is published in German and French languages.\n\nThe catalog is produced by the Swiss company Zumstein & Cie in Bern. While their main product is a catalog for the stamps of Switzerland and neighboring country Liechtenstein, updated annually, they also publish catalogs for \"Europa West\" (Western Europe) and \"Europa Ost\" (Eastern Europe).\nIn addition, they produce a lengthier specialized catalog for Switzerland, as well as a number of monographs on topics in Swiss philately.\n\nThe Zumstein catalogs were originated by the philatelist Ernst Zumstein, who founded the stamp shop Zumstein in 1905 and published the journal \"Philatelistische Börsennachrichten\" starting in 1907 (this journal is still published today, since 1915 under the name \"Berner Briefmarken-Zeitung\").\n\n"}
